SOUTHPORT, NORTH CAROLINA
MEETING MINUTES
Minutes are current from March 5, 2005 to February 17, 2025
2005
MARCH 5, 2005
RETREAT
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN RETREAT
MARCH 5, 2005     DOSHER HOSPITAL BOARD ROOM
SOUTHPORT, N.C.   8:00 A.M.
 
BOARD MEMBERS PRESENT:   Mayor Norman Holden
               Aldermen Nelson Adams, Meezie Childs,
               James Brown, Stuart Callari, Jim Powell and
               Paul Fisher
STAFF PRESENT:         Rob Gandy, City Manager
               Regina Alexander, City Clerk
               Bob Grant, Public Services Director
Mayor Holden thanked the Board and staff for their commitment and dedicated
work for the City. He commended City Manager Gandy for his hard work and
management of the city’s finances; and as a result, Southport has received the
best audit since he has been on the Board.
Synopsis of Board items discussed during Board Retreat
Fire Department – Greg Cumbee, Fire Chief
Mr. Greg Cumbee, Fire Chief gave the Board an overview of the statistical data
for the Fire Department including number of incidents for 2004, average
turnout, response time, volunteer hours, training, certifications and fire
prevention contacts. (For additional information handout on file in clerk’s
office) He briefed the Board on the equipment status. Some of the main points
were:
·   Purchased new vest and safety jackets (lime green)
·   Purchased illuminated safety cones for night calls
·   Need to purchase another infra-red camera
·   Acquire land for new facility in 2005
·   Retain architect for new facility
·   Start construction 1st quarter of 2006 (recommended site of North Howe and
East 11th area – NC State Fire Marshall)
·   2012 paid firefighters
·   recruit more city employees as firefighters – need 7
·   update fire hydrants and water lines
·   supplement retired firefighters’ monthly stipend as incentive to reduce
attrition among members (Progress Energy Donation)
·   Goal is to increase $5.00 per call fee to $10.00 per call for structure
fires
Alderman Fisher and Mayor Holden communicated that talks are in the process
with Edgar Haywood of Dosher Hospital. It was stated that the Citiworks
Foundation has not been able to meet their obligation and the hospital needs
additional parking, therefore; it is a possibility that the City will be able
to work out a land trade with the hospital to acquire property across the
street (from the hospital) for a fire station. After discussion, it was the
consensus of the Board to move forward with negotiations with Mr. Haywood,
Administrator of Dosher Hospital.
Alderman Fisher requested a synopsis of the grant report.
Police Department – Jerry Dove, Police Chief
Mr. Jerry Dove, Chief of Police, reviewed with the Board the accomplishments,
goals and objectives of the Southport Police Department.
JUNE 9, 2005
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING
JUNE 9, 2005      7:30 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
MEMBERS PRESENT: Norman R. Holden, Mayor
                 Aldermen Paul Fisher, Nelson Adams, James Brown,
                 James Powell, Mary “Meezie” Childs and Mary “Stuart” Callari
MEMBERS ABSENT:  None
STAFF PRESENT:   Rob Gandy, City Manager
                 Regina W. Alexander, Clerk
                 Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
                 Bob Grant, Public Services Director
 
The regular monthly meeting of the Southport Board of Aldermen was called to
order at 7:40 p.m. by Mayor Holden.
Invocation delivered by Mayor Pro Tem Brown.
MINUTES
The regular meeting minutes of May 12, 2005 and May 25th workshop minutes were
approved upon motion of Alderman Powell, seconded by Alderman Callari. Vote
carried.
CITIZEN MATTERS
(NON AGENDA ITEMS)
No petitions from the floor.
ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS
PRELIMINARY PLAT – RIDGE AT FOREST OAKS (B. ENGLISH)
Review of the revision for the preliminary plat for the Ridge at Forest Oaks
was tabled until July.
SOUTHPORT CROSSING - CAPE FEAR TRADING GROUP (HYSON)
The Board reviewed with developers and their representatives the sketch plan
for Southport Crossing. Mr. Darryl Guidry, Architect outlined a multi-family
section of a residential/commercial development proposed to be constructed at
the corner of Moore Street and Ferry Road. (ETJ) He stated that the project
will be developed in two phases. Residential homes are proposed in the first
phase and commercial abuts the second phase. Mr. Barker stated if sewer is
unavailable for Phase I, they will consider building a sewerage package plant,
or the developer is willing to help finance some of the sewer extension, if
need be. Mayor Holden recommended the Developer meet with department of
transportation officials to discuss traffic access onto Ferry Road. The Board
looked at the drawing and asked questions about proposed commercial businesses.
Mr. Hyson discussed the possibilities of a retail center and land designated as
open space. Mayor stated that he and the former owner had discussed working
with ADM to obtain access to Price’s Creek Lighthouse in order to open that
area as a tourist attraction. Mayor also asked Mr. Hyson about a boat ramp,
motel and restaurant. No commitments were forthcoming, but Mr. Hyson explained
that they are looking at possibilities and will be glad to sit down in the
future to bring this area in as a part of Southport.
SOUTHPORT NEIGHBORHOOD BUSINESS PROJECT
Mr. Mike Petkauskos, owner of property at 508 North Howe Street presented a
sketch plan proposing to construct a mixed use facility to include a three
story style Charleston structure with an antique shop on the first floor and
residential apartments on the second and third floor. Parking will be in the
rear of the building with a drive thru to allow access. Upon presentation to
the Planning Board, they addressed some concerns and all questions have been
answered i.e. delivery trucks and setbacks. The original plan called for 4 ft
side yard setbacks and the UDO has 0 setbacks and his plans have been modified
accordingly. He will maintain the same front line setback as adjacent
buildings. (15 ft)
For clarification, Mr. Gandy stated the Planning Board minutes addressed the
side yard setbacks, but has since been clarified with the Attorney. The
Ordinance table area yard density and height requirements for Business
Districts specifies front yard of 25 ft. but it does allow for a reduction on
non-conforming lots. Ms. Toth, member of the Planning Board in answer to a
question from the City Manager, stated during discussion at the Planning Board
meeting it was ascertained that this was not a typical lot but could not recall
if the lot was classified as non-conforming. City Manager Gandy stated these
issues will be handled by the Planning Board when Mr. Petkauskos presents his
preliminary plan.
Alderman Fisher invited Mr. Petkauskos to the Parking Committee meeting on July
14, 5:00 p.m. and stated that the Committee is working on a parking lot access
from Atlantic and Howe Streets which is to the rear of his property.
AUDITORS – BROCK, PADGETT & CHANDLER
Alderman Powell motioned to approve the yearly contract with Brock, Padgett and
Chandler for auditing services in the amount of $28,000. Motion seconded by
Alderman Callari. Vote carried.
RESOLUTION – PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT GRANT
Alderman Fisher motioned, seconded by Alderman Childs to approve the resolution
authorizing execution of a Planning and Management Grant with state award of
$10,500 and local match of $3500. Vote carried.
Resolution Authorizing Execution of Planning and Management Grant Contract
A regular meeting of the Southport Board of Aldermen was held on June 9, 2005
at 201 East Moore Street, Aldermen Chambers (City Hall) Southport, N.C., and
the regular meeting place of the Board. There were six (6) Aldermen and the
Mayor present.
The Aldermen were advised that a proposed contract between the City of
Southport and the North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural
Resources for the provision of Planning and Management Services was presented
and discussed; that, under the terms of the said contract, the City of
Southport will pay a total of $3500 as its local share of the planning project
costs.
BE IT RESOLVED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport:
1.   That the contract between the City of Southport and the North Carolina
Department of Environment and Natural Resources is hereby approved.
2.   That the Mayor and the Clerk are hereby authorized to sign and execute
said contract for and on behalf of the City of Southport and forward same to
the North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural Resources.
3.   That upon final execution, a copy of said contract be filed with the
minutes. Upon motion of Alderman Fisher, seconded by Alderman Childs, said
resolution was unanimously passed.
I, Regina W. Alexander, Clerk of the City of Southport do hereby certify that
the foregoing is a true copy of the proceedings of the Board of Aldermen at a
meeting held on June 9, 2005 as related to the contract between the City of
Southport and the North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural
Resources relative to the planning and management project for the City.
Witness my hand and the corporate seal of the City of Southport this the 9th
day of June 2005.
S/ Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
APPOINTMENT – ABC
Alderman Adams motioned, seconded by Alderman Fisher to reappoint Mr. Eddie
Warnette to the ABC Board. Vote carried.
SOLID WASTE FUND
City Manager Gandy stated during the annual audit, the Auditor recommended the
Solid Waste Fund be incorporated into the General Fund for accounting purposes.
Discussion: Alderman Adams asked if these monies will be available for
contingencies. Mr. Gandy stated the monies can be restricted, if not; the
monies will be incorporated into the general fund balance. Alderman Adams
motioned to incorporate the Solid Waste Fund into the general fund. The motion
was seconded by Alderman Brown, vote carried.
PUBLIC HEARING
Motion was made by Alderman Brown to schedule June 20, 2005, 6:00 p.m. as date
of Public Hearing to receive comments on the proposed operating budget for FY
05-06. Alderman Callari seconded the motion, vote carried.
CODE ENFORCEMENT – COUNTY CLEAN UP
Alderman Brown motioned, seconded by Alderman Childs to approve a request from
the Code Enforcement Officer to have a house located at 311 North Rhett Street
demolished by participating in the County’s clean up program. Vote carried.
SINCOSKIE – DEBT RELEASE
The Board acknowledged a request from Mr. Larry Sincoskie on behalf of his
wife, Cynthia Diane Allen Sincoskie requesting relief of a utility debt
regarding a past due account on a residence at 112 Cape Fear Drive. (Note: the
account was not in Mr. Larry Sincoskie’s name) After review, a motion was made
by Alderman Brown to deny the request, seconded by Alderman Callari. Vote
carried.
BUDGET AMENDMENTS
Alderman Childs motioned, seconded by Alderman Brown to approve budget
amendments #16 and #17.  Vote carried
Budget Amendment #16
FY 2004-2005
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled regular session June 9, 2005, that the following budget amendment be
adopted for funding from miscellaneous revenues for fees paid to Rescue
volunteers.
GENERAL FUND
                                     Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section 1
A.   Revenues Anticipated:
   Local Revenues                 $1500.00         941,575
      Miscellaneous Revenues 1500.00
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
   Rescue Department              1500.00          99,197
      Fees Paid to Volunteer 1500.00
 
Adopted this the 9th day of June 2005.
S/Norman R. Holden
Attest:
S/Regina W. Alexander, City Clerk
Budget Amendment #17
FY 2004-2005
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled regular session June 9, 2005, that the following budget amendment be
adopted for funding from donation to Community Building for flowers paid from
departmental supplies.
GENERAL FUND
                                Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section I.
A.   Revenues Anticipated:
      Local Revenues      318.00           941,893
      Donation /Community 318.00
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
      Tourism             318.00           136,330
      Departmental supplie318.00
 
Adopted this the 9th day of June 2005.
S/Mayor Norman R. Holden
Attest:
S/Regina W. Alexander
City Clerk
TAX RELEASES
Alderman Childs motioned to approve the following tax releases, seconded by
Alderman Brown. Vote carried.
 
BILL/PARCEL NAME/ACCT#      DATE     AMT. RELEASED VALUE RELEASED REASON
473         Dosher, Thomas  2004 tax 3.13          990            Boat sold in
            Hoyle, Jr.                                            2002
237DF023    Geter, Gertrude 2001 tax 45.34         8500           House
            Heirs                                                 demolished
237DF023    Geter, Gertrude 2002 tax 42.22         8500           House
            Heirs                                                 demolished
237DF023    Geter, Gertrude 2003 tax 34.00         8990           House
            Heirs                                                 demolished
237DF023    Geter, Gertrude 2004 tax 28.51         8990           House
            Heirs                                                 demolished
TOTAL                                $ 153.20
 
OTHER BUSINESS
WATER/SEWER COMMITTEE
Alderman Fisher asked for Board approval to send a formal letter from the city
to County Commissioners inviting them to a meeting of the Water/Sewer Committee
on June 20, 2005. Purpose of the meeting is to insure that they are all on the
same wavelength regarding sewer and expansion of the water system. He then made
a motion to this effect, seconded by Alderman Adams, vote carried.
PARKING COMMITTEE
Alderman Fisher reported that the Parking Committee met and they have received
the survey for the alley. Mr. Bill Delaney made short presentation to the
Board. Alderman Fisher told the Board that Howe Street has two different rights
of ways i.e. 99 feet and 80 feet. They are trying to develop a plan where the
parking lot can be open with access through to Howe Street. The Parking
Committee will work up a plan and meet with those involved. Mayor Holden
recommended Aldermen Fisher view a map that Ken Campbell has which shows all of
the old alleys in the City.
ADJOURNMENT
No further business, Alderman Childs motioned for adjournment, seconded by
Alderman Brown.
S/Norman R. Holden, Mayor
S/Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
JULY 14, 2005
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMAN REGULAR MEETING
JULY 14, 2005     7:30 P.M.
ALDERMAN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
MEMBERS PRESENT:   Norman R. Holden, Mayor
            Aldermen Nelson Adams, Meezie Childs, James Brown,
            Stuart Callari, Jim Powell and Paul Fisher
MEMBERS ABSENT:   None
STAFF PRESENT:      Regina W. Alexander, City Clerk
            Robert Grant, Public Services Director
            Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
STAFF ABSENT:      Rob Gandy, City Manager
The regular monthly meeting of the Southport Board of Aldermen was called to
order at 7:35 p.m. by Mayor Holden.
The invocation was delivered by Mayor Pro Tem Brown.
MINUTES
The regular monthly meeting minutes of June 9, 2005 and Special Meeting Minutes
of June 20, 2005 were approved upon motion of Alderman Powell, seconded by
Alderman Callari. The vote was unanimous.
CITIZEN MATTERS
(Non-Agenda Items)
Mr. C. B. Caroon of 416 East Bay Street addressed the Board concerning the
history of the Southport Small Boat Harbor. He stated that he read several
articles concerning this matter and wished to come before the Board to provide
information and give a brief history of the Small Boat Harbor/Marina. He stated
that discussion started in 1962 and “in 1963 with the Board and State Ports
Authority to work out a feasible situation whereby this project could be
completed. Negotiations took place in 1963 and it was agreed that it would be a
Small Boat Harbor for the use of the public and operated by the State.
Construction was completed in the spring of 1965, and opened for public use. He
stated in the early 1980’s, the state became dissatisfied with the operation
and it was leased to a private entity and operated for profit, but still it was
offered to the public for their convenience. He stated during his tenure on the
Board, he compiled documents which included a map of the 42 acres which was
transferred to the state, deed to the property, an agreement that was made by
the Board in the spring of ’63 and the resolution. Between ’89 and ’90, some of
them entered into discussion with the State Ports Authority and the topic was
the appraisal of the 42 acres that the city turned over to the State Ports
authority against the price or the money that they spent for improvements to
that facility. They talked about trading off one for the other and letting this
facility be put back into Authority and ownership of Southport. For
information, he explained the process of this negotiation which he stated is on
record in the Register of Deeds Office. Mr. Caroon explained that “it was
agreed that the City would turn this property over to the State Ports Authority
for the purpose for which it has been used primarily.” He read from minutes
where it was discussed and arrangements made for the transfer of the property.
Two properties were involved, 7.2 acres, and 42 acres. The 7.2 acres was kept
by the city for use as a disposal plant, and 42 acres turned over to the State
Ports Authority for the Small Board Harbor. He then read motions from the
minutes that were made to complete the transfer of property. The Agreement was
put together in March 14, 1963.
“The Board met in regular session, present Mayor J.E. Hahn, Presiding, Alderman
R. N. Hood, C.L Rourk, H.F. Aldridge and D.C. Herring.
“Motion was made by D. C. Herring seconded by C. L. Rourk that the two pieces
of property that the City purchased from Holston Land Company be made available
to the North Carolina State Ports Authority. City excluding any part of this
property that may be needed for sewerage disposal plant. This property to be
made available at total cost of land including engineers surveying cost,
attorney title search fee and any other cost to City.”
Mr. Caroon stated the 7.2 acres was to be excluded from this deal in the event
Southport chose to retain it.
“Motion was made by D.C. Herring seconded by C.L. Rourk that the following
Resolution be adopted.”
Resolution
“IT IS RESOLVED that the Mayor of the City of Southport be and he hereby is
authorized to sell the 7.2 acre and the 42 acre tracts of land adjoining the
present Yacht Basin and lying on the northern side of the Intracoastal
Waterway, recently purchased by the City from the Holston Land Company, to the
North Carolina State Ports Authority with the understanding that the same shall
be used only for the purpose of constructing a small boat terminal, otherwise
said land shall revert to the City of Southport; that the sales price for this
property shall be an amount representing the bare cost to the City for the
property consisting of the purchase price, surveyors’ charges and legal fees
for title search and opinion of title;
FURTHER RESOLVED that this offer to sell the property to the said State Ports
Authority shall if not accepted by said Authority, or this authorization be not
extended by appropriate action of this Board, expire on year from the date of
this resolution;
FURTHER RESOLVED that the Mayor and the Clerk to the Board be and they hereby
are authorized to execute all documents necessary to convey the aforesaid land
to the said State Ports Authority;
Mr. Caroon stated an amendment was made to the resolution dated April 11, 1963.
AMENDMENT
“FURTHER RESOLVED that the Clerk to this Board be and he hereby is authorized
and directed to furnish the said State Ports Authority certified copies of this
resolution.”
Excerpt from Minutes dated March 19, 1963.
(Motion was made by D. C. Herring seconded by H. F. Aldridge that the deed
dated December 20, 1962 from Holston Land Company to the City of Southport, for
the property on the western side of City owned property adjoining present Yacht
Basin. This property consisting of forty-two acres more or less be accepted,
Mayor Hahn be authorized to sign note for same.” Motion carried.)
Mr. Caroon stated selling the land will break the spirit of the agreement and
resolution that was approved by the City and State Ports Authority. If the land
is to be sold, the City should get the greater part of the money. Funds could
be used to update infrastructure and consider alleviating some of the tax
burden.
Mr. John Barbee of 712 E. Moore Street addressed the Board concerning the
marina. He stated for the past 4 years, there has been a public marina in
Southport. He stated various maritime clubs hold functions at the marina i.e.
the Power Squadron, Southport Sailing and Cape Fear Yacht Club. The Chamber of
Commerce has held the U.S. Open King Mackerel Tournament there for the past 26
years. He asked the question, “Where are our children and grandchildren going
to hold tournaments and fundraisers, put their boats in and out of the water if
the marina is sold and the City don’t buy it or own it?”
Mr. Barbee stated that the marina is an asset and is irreplaceable, and
believes a disservice will be done to future generations if the city does not
ask the state for control of the marina.
Mr. Woody Wilson of 502 Brunswick Street stated that citizens do not want to
see private or commercial development of the Southport Marina. It is a public
facility and if the marina gets away from the city, it is a lost that will
never be replaced. Mr. Wilson asked the Aldermen to support the citizens in
taking a stand. He asked the Board of Aldermen to support them in their
endeavor to save the marina. He presented a copy of a petition that is being
circulated in the community.
Mr. John Reinsburrow of 998 Pete’s Camp Drive, S.E. addressed the condition of
Northwood Cemetery and stated “in his opinion” it is declining further into
disrepair and is unkempt. He asked the City to take action to make it
presentable.
Second item addressed by Mr. Reinsburrow was the Lowe-White Park. He stated
that he addressed this issue a year ago and was told that it would be made a
place that the citizens would be proud of. He stated that the area is a “dump”.
Mayor Holden in response told Mr. Reinsburrow the city has a plan for the park.
The city is waiting on the outcome of Fort Johnston, and if the city is able to
obtain this property; plans are to build a park and tennis court.
Mr. Brian English of 102 River Drive referenced property in the ETJ beside
Builders First Source which is being used by the S&W Concrete Plant. He stated
this is not a permitted use, and it is his understanding if the Plant was shut
down six months, it could not re-open. He told the Board when Godwin sold to
APAC concrete was not mixed in hat location for approximately 3 years and now
this is being done in the middle of the night which abuts a neighborhood. He
asked that this matter be looked into by the city.
MARINA
Mayor Holden in clarifying information to the public explained “the marina is
not a public marina; it belongs to the State of North Carolina and is leased to
the Benson Group. During the 1970’s under the Governorship of James E.
Holshouser, the marina was leased and it was no longer public, (“State of North
Carolina”). Mr. Bill Arnold approached the operator of the marina (Smitty),
gave him a copy of the lease and 2 weeks to remove the state’s property. From
that point, it became a leased piece of property which meant that the City of
Southport for the last 40 years has never received property taxes on the
property. Mayor stated that he personally contacted Attorney Generals, Rufus
Edmisten, Lacy Thornburg, Mike Easley and Roy Cooper about the lease by letter
and asked them to review the agreement (which was changed at a later date) to
determine if it could be null and void. Each Attorney General stated it could
not be. The property is up for sale today because of the lease that was started
under Governor Holshouser.”
Mr. Caroon again referred the Board to the resolution dated April 1963 between
the City and State Ports Authority. Mayor stated the City of Southport cannot
sell a piece of property without going through the legislature. Mr. Caroon
referenced the lease agreement and Mayor recommended he obtain a copy of the
lease from 1970’s.
ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS
PUBLIC HEARING
Public Hearing on zoning reclassification request by J. Arthur Dosher Memorial
Hospital, to rezone 823 N. Atlantic Avenue from R-10 (residential) to O & I
(office and institutional). Alderman Callari requested this matter be tabled
until she can obtain clarification on rezoning this small area until the next
regular scheduled meeting (August 11, 2005). Motion seconded by Alderman
Childs. Vote carried.
PUBLIC HEARING
Alderman Childs motioned to enter Public Hearing, seconded by Alderman Powell,
on zoning alignment/reclassification request by Cape Fear Trading Company for
the following parcels: 308 West Bay Street, BD (Business District) and R-10
(Residential) to BD (Business District); 317 West Bay Street, Business District
and R-10 to Business District; 115 Yacht Basin Drive, Business District and R-
10 to Business District; and 319 West Moore Street, R-10 and Business District
to R-10. Vote carried.
Mr. Richard Bandera of 309 Clarendon Avenue, Architect stated his concerns are
about the idea and perception that happens from a reclassification request of a
particular site. The proposal from the applicant is changing from an open space
very low residential to R-10 and to a Business District. He stated Article 9,
of the UDO does not define open space very low density and allowable use. He
questioned open space very low residential district in comparison to an R-10?
Mayor told Mr. Bandera attending the Planning Board meetings will help define
these questions. Attorney Isenberg told Mr. Bandera that a table of permitted
uses is contained in the UDO that explains each district use, density,
setbacks, etc. Attorney Isenberg stated the zoning line actually runs through
the lots, a percentage of each lot is zoned business and a percentage
residential, and a property owner has the right to have their lots zoned one
way or another. The purpose of this request is to have each lot zoned one way.
Mr. Russ Ferris questioned the zoning change. Secondly, he questioned some of
the interest of Planning Board members and their backgrounds, and stated the
need for members who does not have a conflict of interest.
Ms. Susan Toth, member of the Planning Board, clarified that the request was to
rezone all four properties to business district. Lots 1, 2 and 3 as depicted on
the map were mainly business district and as stated by the Attorney, this is an
effort to align the zoning in accordance with the use that it is currently
under. She stated it made sense to the Planning Board to rezone those lots to
business districts which is why the recommendation was made. Lot 4 was
requested to be rezoned to business district, which most of it is residential
and they recommended it to remain R-10.
Mr. Henry Bridger’s of 412 E. Leonard Street stated according to the County’s
tax records, 319 West Moore Street is actually Parcel 237LF00401 whereas it is
listed 237LF004. 319 West Moore Street is the parking lot and the old wooden
boat shop. Parcel 237LF004 is 309 West Moore Street. Staff will look into this
discrepancy.
Mr. Rod Hyson, owner and developer asked the Board to support the
recommendation of the Planning Board.
Mr. John Reinsburrow of 998 Pete’s Camps Drive, S.E. (ETJ) asked the Board to
give careful consideration to rezoning this property and the long term affect
to Southport. If this area is rezoned, the developer and the city are bound to
allow anything that falls into this zoning category be constructed there. He
asked if the rezoning is approved, consideration be given to the area to
whichever the majority use of each parcel.
For clarification, Attorney Isenberg stated the lots in question are being
rezoned to the majority use.
No further comments, Alderman Childs motioned to close the Public Hearing,
seconded by Alderman Powell, vote carried.
REGULAR SESSION
Alderman Fisher motioned to accept the recommendation of the Planning Board to
rezone 3 parcels owned by Cape Fear Trading Company to business district (BD)
and 1 parcel remains R-10. Motion seconded by Alderman Brown, vote carried.
(Note parcels identified under Public Hearing #2)
PUBLIC HEARING
Alderman Callari motioned to enter Public Hearing on an amendment to the
Comprehensive Plan Future Land Use Map to reflect zoning change to the
following: 115 Yacht Basin Drive from open space/very low residential to
business district. Motion was seconded by Alderman Powell, vote carried.
There were no public comments.
Alderman Callari motioned to close the Public Hearing, seconded by Alderman
Childs, vote carried.
REGULAR SESSION
Alderman Childs motioned to amend the Comprehensive Plan Future Land Use Map to
reflect the zoning change at 115 Yacht Basin Drive from open space/very low
residential to business district. The motion was seconded by Alderman Callari,
vote carried.
ORDINANCE – CRIMINAL HISTORY CHECKS
Chief Dove asked the Board to table the Ordinance to amend Chapter 2, Article
III of the City Code of Ordinances regarding criminal history until the August
meeting.
ANNEXATION PETITION -CAPE FEAR DEVELOPMENT, LLC
Alderman Callari motioned to approve a contiguous voluntary annexation petition
pursuant to G.S. 160A-31. The property is located on the northeast corner of
Stuart Avenue and Howe Street. (Aaron Dickey and Kyle Johnson)
NORTH CAROLINA LEAGUE OF MUNICIPALITIES – RESOLUTIONS
The Board reviewed resolutions pertaining to membership in the North Carolina
League of Municipalities Insurance Services. Alderman Callari motioned to
approve the following resolutions, seconded by Alderman Powell. Vote carried.
(Agreement and Resolutions Incorporated as Attachment #1)
·   Membership Agreement and Resolution for Municipal Insurance Trust
·   Membership Agreement and Resolution for Workman’s Comp Insurance Pool
·   Membership Agreement and Resolution for Property/Liability Insurance Pool
RESOLUTION – CORPORATE/MUNICIPAL
Alderman Fisher motioned to approve the certified copy of the corporate/
municipal resolution, seconded by Alderman Callari. Vote carried. (Resolution
Incorporated as Attachment #2)
PRELIMINARY PLAT – “THE RIDGE AT FOREST OAKS”
Alderman Fisher motioned to approve the preliminary plat for the Ridge at
Forest Oaks, seconded by Alderman Powell. Vote carried.
NUISANCE ABATEMENT PROGRAM
Mr. Grant presented requests from the Code Enforcement Officer to participate
in the County’s Nuisance Abatement Program to remove structures from 401 N.
Clarendon Avenue and 305 W. St. George Street. Alderman Fisher motioned to
approve the requests, seconded by Alderman Childs, vote carried.
RFP’s
Mr. Grant informed the Board that he discussed with the City Manager the need
to prepare an RFP for a contract in order to be prepared and to mobilize
quickly in the event of a hurricane upon 48 hours notice. It was explained in
order to meet eligibility requirements for FEMA reimbursement; the city must
issue informal bids.
Motion was made by Alderman Callari to approve the preparation of the RFP and
authorize the City Manager to request bids with authorization to enter into
contract with the lowest responsible bidder(s). Discussion: Alderman Adams
recommended that two contracts be incorporated in the RFP.  Motion seconded by
Alderman Childs. Vote carried.
PARKING COMMITTEE
Alderman Fisher reported from the Parking Committee. They discussed the
following matters:
·   Discussion regarding the proliferation of signs around the city for various
events, i.e. sidewalks and streets. The Committee reviewed the UDO for
clarification of temporary signs which does not cover all of these. The Parking
Committee asked the Boards’ concurrence to authorize the Code Enforcement to
observe the situation and if the sign creates a safety hazard to have it
removed, otherwise the Parking Committee will develop a recommendation to the
Board to cover these areas in the UDO.
The general consensus of the Board was to accept the Parking Committee’s
recommendation.
·   Alderman Fisher reported that the Parking Committee has observed the use of
Kingsley Park and noted the lack of use and asked the Boards’ concurrence to
investigate the possibility of installing a Gazebo and extending the length of
the pier. Mayor asked the Board to look into the possibility of obtaining a
grant.
RESOLUTION – MARINA
Alderman Fisher stated that the Mayor will attend a public meeting on July 27
and at that time. he will present the following resolution from the City.
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the City of Southport recognizes that the State of North Carolina is
considering selling the Southport Marina; and
WHEREAS, the City recognizes that the existing boat ramps and vessel moorings
are of utmost importance not only to the local areas but the entire state; and
WHEREAS, access to these ramps and moorings positively impacts the economy of
Southport and surrounding areas; and
WHEREAS, during the 30+ years that the Southport Marina has been under lease,
the City has received no property taxes from this facility, and has had no
controls over property; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen supports the sale of the Southport Marina
provided that the considerations noted below are appropriately addressed:
·   That the marina facilities be “user friendly” and “public accessible”,
especially the restroom and showers.
·   That the boat ramp remains available for use by the general public with
adequate boat trailer parking at no cost to the public,
·   That in the event a hotel/motel complex is developed, it shall be subject
to accommodation and sales taxes and all marina property shall be subject to
property taxes.
·   That 40% of present dockage for larger vessels remains open to the public
and at least 20% open to transients.
·   Provision shall be made for the yearly U.S. King Mackerel Tournament. It is
estimated to have a $2 million dollar economic impact on the area. The
tournament is 26 years old and average between 428-555 boats per year.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT HEREBY RESOLVED, that the City of Southport Board of
Aldermen supports the potential sale of the Southport Marina property subject
to the above referenced considerations being appropriately addressed and
incorporated into any sales agreement entered into by the state and other
parties.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that in the event the Marina is retained by the State,
the City requests that it be paid annually a contribution in lieu of ad valorem
taxes based upon the appraised tax value.
ADOPTED, this the 14th of July 2005 by the Southport Board of Aldermen.
S/Norman R. Holden
Mayor
Attest:
S/Regina W. Alexander, CMC, City Clerk
Alderman Adams motioned to approve the aforementioned resolution, seconded by
Alderman Callari. Discussion: Alderman Childs asked that “free use of the boat
ramp” be incorporated in the resolution. Vote carried.
Mayor Holden stated if anyone wants a copy of the lease agreement it can be
obtained from the Chairman of the State Ports Authority or the City Manager may
have a copy of each in his office.
Mayor invited the public to attend the meeting with the State Ports Authority
at South Brunswick High School, 3:00 p.m. on July 27th. Mayor Holden stated
that he met personally with the Chairman of the Board concerning Southport
Marina and he informed him of the conditions that he believes Southport should
get from the sale.
COMMITTEE - UDO
Alderman Childs asked that a Committee be appointed from the Board to work with
Ms. Clewis on perceived problems with the Unified Development Ordinance in the
Central Business District. Mayor appointed Aldermen Childs as Chairperson,
Aldermen Callari and Powell as committee members.
ADJOURNMENT
No further business, the meeting adjourned upon motion of Alderman Childs,
seconded by Alderman Brown. Vote carried.
__________________________________
Norman R. Holden
Mayor
__________________________________
Regina W. Alexander
City Clerk
AUGUST 3, 2005
SPECIAL MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN SPECIAL MEETING
AUGUST 3, 2005    7:30 P.M.
ALDERMAN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, N. C.
 
MEMBERS PRESENT:   Norman R. Holden, Mayor
            Aldermen Nelson Adams, Meezie Childs, James Brown,
            Stuart Callari, James Powell and Paul Fisher
MEMBERS ABSENT:   None
STAFF PRESENT:      Rob Gandy, City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander-CMC, City Clerk
Mayor Holden called the meeting to order. He announced that this Special
Meeting was called by Aldermen Childs and Callari for an opportunity to discuss
the marina. He explained to the public that this is a Special Called Meeting
for the Board, and not a Public Hearing.
The following statement was made by Mayor Holden and is transcribed verbatim:
“I feel that it is time to set the record straight. The Mayor and the Board of
Aldermen certainly is working to save the marina property and I make reference
to a letter which was faxed Monday morning to Governor Easley and to Chairman
Stewart asking them to donate the Southport Marina to the City of Southport. I
feel the Southport minutes, letters and files in City Hall, newspaper articles
since 1983 will show that I’ve always worked to gain control of the Southport
Marina. (I have evidence of this downstairs.) I have contacted four Attorney
Generals, Governor Hunt, Governor Martin and Governor Easley about the
ownership of the Southport Marina in the past asking always that it be turned
over to the City of Southport. Around 14 or 18 months ago, I was contacted by
Special Legal Counsel Ruffin Poole, that there was going to be some action on
the marina. He informed me that Mr. Kent Mitchell would be contacting me.
Myself, Mr. Mitchell, City Manager and Jim Henry of Bald Head Island, Project
Manager set down to discuss the Southport Marina. As I pointed out, Mr. Kent
Mitchell was the first one I discussed the Southport Marina with and I have 2
other witnesses, one sitting right next to me. At this time, he wanted to know
what we wanted to do with the marina. I specifically told him that the citizens
of Southport and myself wanted the marina. After the meeting, it appeared the
gate opened with subjects calling for appointments or information over the
phone about the sale of the Southport Marina. It appeared due to the fact that
it’s called Southport Marina, that a lot of these people understood that it was
the sale from the City of Southport and I explained to them that the City of
Southport did not own the marina. I received a call from the Wall Street
Journal and I have the gentleman’s name downstairs, that asked me was the City
of Southport for sale. I said, well...not yet, and then I explained to him that
it was the marina. And all along it appears that the plans for the City of
Southport, I have spoken several times with a Mr. Terry Lee, Mr. Jeff Earp &
Associate, Mr. Fred Dietrich, Mr. Homer Wright who phoned me several times, and
gosh knows, how many more individuals about the marina. They all had plans for
Southport Marina. I always advised him that it was up to the State Port’s
Authority and I was of the opinion that the marina should always come back to
the City of Southport and you can call them and verify that. Since 1983, I’ve
always worked towards obtaining the marina for the City of Southport. A meeting
was set up by the Governor during his first term of office between myself,
Aldermen Callari, Fisher and four of his legal staff members, one being Mr.
Ruffin Poole who is his number one staff person and Mr. Joe Henderson. For
those of you who do not know who Joe Henderson is, he is the Director of all
the state properties in the State of North Carolina. He assured me and the
committee that he would be working for the Governor to obtain the marina for
the City of Southport. I was first informed of the buyout of the lease the day
that they had the meeting on July 28 when some of you met with Chairman
Stewart. He called me that day about 9:30 a.m. informing me that he had just
been informed there was a buyout of the lease. I did not know at that time who
the buyout person was nor did he. I have spent all day in Raleigh and I have a
witness that is not associated with the City Board in anyway that I have been
in Raleigh all day, starting in the Governor’s office lobbying for the
ownership of the marina. So for the Board of Aldermen and especially the Mayor,
anyone stating we are not for Southport’s ownership of the marina is certainly
misinformed. We need to forget the hostilities and begin to work together if we
are going to get the marina. I am ready, are you? I met with Senator Soles
today, along with my witness. Senator Soles advised me that until HB 1522 has
cleared his Commerce Committee, that the property. City Marina cannot be sold.
If you want to verify that, you can contact Senator Soles. He personally asked
me, Norman what do you want to do with the marina? I said, Senator, I want the
Southport Marina to come back to the City of Southport. If you don’t believe
me, call and ask him.”
Alderman Childs stated the “Special Meeting” was called to give the Board an
opportunity to take action in regards to the acquisition of the Southport
Marina by the City. She stated that she along with Aldermen Powell and Callari
went to Raleigh (today) and met with Senator Soles, Representative Hill and
Representative Stiller. They received support and their willingness to work
with the city to acquire the marina. Alderman Childs then offered the following
Memorandum of Agreement and Resolution for Board adoption. Alderman Callari
seconded the motion, and the vote of approval was unanimous.
Memorandum of Agreement
In 1963 the City of Southport sold the State of North Carolina the marina
property for $9,000.00. It was the intention of all parties that a public
marina would be established to serve the public for both commercial and
recreational boating.
The Southport Marina has become an integral part of the economy of Southport.
It has indeed become a vital part of the body of Southport and reflects the
Southport spirit of a fully open waterfront community.
Our future and the marina’s future are fully entwined. The people of Southport
feel that the Southport marina belongs to them and is a part of their heritage,
life and community, whether in fact, the City of Southport actually owns the
marina or not.
If the State of North Carolina decides to continue ownership of the Southport
Marina through the State Ports Authority or some other agency, the City of
Southport desires to work closely with that management group to insure that the
Southport marina is a quality facility with outstanding service.
If the State of North Carolina has decided or does decide to sell the Southport
Marina, it is the full intention and commitment of the City of Southport to
pursue all avenues necessary to secure ownership of the Southport Marina from
the State of N. C. through the State Ports Authority.
The City requests the State of North Carolina to set aside a specific time
period of six (6) months in which the City of Southport will have exclusive
rights to pursue ownership of the Southport Marina. The City will pursue all
purchase options with due diligence and speed to plan and implement appropriate
financing programs as needed.
The City of Southport requests that the State of North Carolina, through the
States Port Authority work to agree on a reasonable price for the transfer of
the property.
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, it is our goal to investigate, plan, negotiate and implement the
necessary steps to achieve that ownership; and
WHEREAS, we will take the needed actions to provide the citizens of Southport,
Brunswick County, and the State of North Carolina with a quality marina
facility that has outstanding service.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport unanimously supports the ownership of the Southport Marina by the
City of Southport.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that we say: Return the Marina to Southport.
ADOPTED by the Southport Board of Alderman in special session this the 3rd day
of August 2005.
S/Norman R. Holden, Mayor
ATTEST:
S/Regina W. Alexander, City Clerk
Mayor Holden stated for the record, although three Aldermen and he were in
Raleigh, they did not meet together because this would have constituted an
illegal meeting.
Alderman Childs motioned to send a letter to Representative Bonner Stiller
thanking him for attending the Public Hearing on July 27, letters sent to
Senator Soles and Representative Hill for meeting with them, and further that a
copy of the Resolution and Memorandum of Agreement be sent to Chairman Stewart,
Governor Easley, Representatives Hill and Stiller, and Senator Soles i.e.
copies to the Council of State. Alderman Callari seconded the motion;
Discussion: Mayor recommended copies be sent to all members of the State Ports
Authority. No further discussion, the vote of approval was unanimous.
Alderman Fisher stated he has received numerous calls since he was the
“unfortunate” one to introduce the original resolution about the marina and
offered the following:
“I would like to make the following statement; I have never been in favor of
selling the marina and have been working since the late nineties to gain the
marina for Southport. We, the Board, were informed the sale of the marina was a
done deal. I did not write the resolution but believing that the sale was a
sure thing, I did suggest adding the part of the resolution pertaining to boat
ramp, accommodations and property tax and the second resolve regarding payment
in lieu of taxes. If in fact the sale of the marina is not a done deal, which
evidently it is not, then I feel we, the board, were deceived. Again, I do not
support the sale of the marina. I appreciate the interest the citizens of
Southport have shown in this matter and would encourage you to continue to have
interests in all matters concerning the operations of the City of Southport.
Thank you.”
RESOLUTION – RESCIND
Alderman Fisher motioned to rescind the resolution that was adopted by the
Board in regular meeting July 14, 2005 supporting the potential sale of the
marina. Motion seconded by Alderman Callari, the vote of approval was
unanimous.
ADJOURNMENT
No further business, the meeting was adjourned upon motion of Alderman Childs,
seconded by Alderman Brown. Vote carried.
S/James Brown, Mayor Pro Tempore
S/Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
AUGUST 11, 2005
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING
AUGUST 11, 2005   7:30 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
MEMBERS PRESENT:    Norman R. Holden, Mayor
            Aldermen Nelson Adams, Meezie Childs, Stuart Callari,
            James Brown, Paul Fisher and James Powell
MEMBERS ABSENT:   None
STAFF PRESENT:      Rob Gandy, City Manger
            Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
            Regina W. Alexander, City Clerk
Mayor Holden presented Alderman Callari, member of Brunswick Community College
Board of Trustees who introduced Dr. Stephen Greiner, President of Brunswick
Community College. Dr. Greiner expressed his pleasure at being in Southport and
the hospitality extended. He offered his assistance through the college in
whatever manner needed.
Mayor Holden called the regular monthly meeting of the Southport Board of
Aldermen to order at 7:35 p.m.
The invocation was delivered by Alderman Brown.
MINUTES
The regular monthly meeting minutes of July 14, 2005 were approved upon motion
of Alderman Powell, seconded by Alderman Callari. The vote of approval was
unanimous.
CITIZEN MATTERS
(Non Agenda Items)
No public comments.
ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS
PUBLIC HEARING
Alderman Childs motioned to enter Public Hearing on zoning reclassification
request by J. Arthur Dosher Memorial Hospital, 823 North Atlantic Avenue from
R-10 (residential) to O & I (office and institutional) Alderman Powell seconded
the motion and the vote of approval was unanimous.
There were no comments on the zoning reclassification request.
Alderman Powell motioned to close the Hearing and to re-enter regular session.
Motion seconded by Alderman Fisher, vote carried.
REGULAR SESSION
Alderman Fisher motioned to approve the zoning reclassification for Dosher
Hospital from R-10 residential to office and institutional. (O&I). Motion
seconded by Alderman Brown, vote of approval was unanimous.
ORDINANCE AMENDMENT-CRIMINAL HISTORY CHECKS
Chief Dove communicated that Mr. Gene Melvin of the SBI Division of Criminal
Information reviewed the draft ordinance and approved same. The Ordinance was
presented by Chief Dove for Board approval.
Alderman Childs motioned to adopt the Ordinance to amend Chapter 2, Article III
of the City of Southport Code of Ordinances regarding criminal history checks.
Alderman Fisher seconded the motion. Discussion: Alderman Adams asked if this
included the entire work force, the response was yes. The vote of approval was
unanimous.
AN ORDINANCE TO AMEND CHAPTER 2 ARTICLE III
CITY OF SOUTHPORT CODE OF ORDINANCES
BE IT HEREBY ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport:
The Code of Ordinances, City of Southport, is hereby amended by adding a
section to be numbered 2-114, which section reads as follows:
Section 2-114 CRIMINAL HISTORY CHECKS
1.   In order to protect the citizens of the city and their properties, the
procedures herein are established to provide for fingerprinting and criminal
history checks on all final applicants for regular full and part-time positions
in the city government. Subject to division (C) of this section, employment
with the city may be denied for those persons convicted of any crime against a
person, or crimes against property where intent is an element, or any drug or
gambling related offense.
(A)   The City Manager, or designee, shall conduct an investigation of any
final candidate for a permanent full-time or part-time position with the city
government and it shall be a precondition of employment that an applicant for
such a position shall upon request, provide fingerprints and all other
necessary personal identification including a birth certificate, social
security number and drivers license, if available, so that the City Manager, or
designee, may cause a thorough search to be made of local and state criminal
records to determine if the applicant has a history of criminal convictions or
the crimes enumerated above by use of the Division of Criminal Information
Network (DCI).
(B)   The Police Department shall provide the findings from the use of the DCI
to the City Manager or designee, provided that all necessary agreements with
the State Bureau of Investigations Division of Criminal Information have been
executed.
(C)   An evaluation of any crime for purposes of employment will take into
account the nature and the circumstances of the offense and the time frame of
the offense as it relates to the essential job functions for the position
applied.
2.   If this ordinance or the application thereof to any person or circumstance
is held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other provisions or
applications of the ordinance which can be given separate effect and to that
end the provisions of this ordinance are declared to be severable.
3.   Any ordinance or any part of an ordinance in conflict with this Ordinance,
to the extent of such conflict, is hereby repealed.
4.   This Ordinance is adopted in the interest of public health, safety and
general welfare of the inhabitants of the City of Southport, North Carolina,
and shall be in full force and effect from and after its adoption.
This Ordinance adopted this the 11th Day of August, 2005.
S/Norman R. Holden
Attest:
S/Regina W. Alexander-CMC
City Clerk
RESOLUTION – ANNEXATION
The City Clerk having certified the Certificate of Sufficiency of annexation
submitted by Cape Fear Development Corporation pursuant to G.S. 160A-31, upon
motion of Alderman Childs, seconded by Alderman Brown, the Board adopted a
resolution fixing the date of Public Hearing on the question of contiguous
annexation. The vote was unanimous.
RESOLUTION FIXING DATE OF PUBLIC HEARING ON QUESTION OF CONTIGUOUS ANNEXATION
PURSUANT TO G.S. 160A-31
WHEREAS, a petition requesting annexation of the contiguous area described
herein has been received; and
WHEREAS, the City of Southport Board of Aldermen has by resolution directed the
City Clerk to investigate the sufficiency of the petition; and
WHEREAS, certification by the City Clerk as to the sufficiency of the petition
has been made;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport, North Carolina that:
Section 1.  A public hearing on the question of annexation of the contiguous
area described herein will be held at Southport City Hall at 7:30 p.m. on
September 8 2005.
Section 2. The area proposed for annexation is described as follows:
Beginning at a nail in the pavement where the Northern line of Stuart Avenue,
having a 66 foot right of way, is intersected by the Eastern line of North Howe
Street (N.C. Highway 211, 80 foot right of way); running thence from said
beginning point North 18 Degrees 00 Minutes West along the Eastern line of
North Howe Street 119.68 feet to an existing iron pipe; thence North 72 degrees
31 Minutes 30 Seconds East 327.09 feet to a new iron rod in the Western line of
S.R. 1542 (60 foot right of way); thence South 13 Degrees 59 Minutes East along
the Western line of S.R. 1542 119.45 feet to a new iron rod at its intersection
with the Northern line of Stuart Avenue; thence South 72 Degrees 26 Minutes 41
Seconds West along the Northern line of Stuart Avenue 318.72 feet to the point
of beginning. Described property containing 38570.70 sq. ft. 0.89 Acre.
Adopted this the 11th day of August.
S/Norman R. Holden
Mayor
ATTEST:
S/Regina W. Alexander-CMC
City clerk
NORTH CAROLINA BEACH INLET AND WATER ASSOCIATION
Mayor Holden communicated that he was contacted about the City joining the N.
C. Beach Inlet & Waterway Association. This organization was initially
comprised of the beaches but their Charter has been amended. Alderman Adams
questioned the benefit of joining the Association and whether it will enhance
the City’s ability to get funds to protect the coastline. Mayor Holden and
Alderman Fisher stated the benefits are to be included in the study for erosion
along the riverfront and inland waterway. Aldermen Fisher stated if Southport
does not belong to the Association, it will not be included in the study,
however if funds are allocated from the federal government the city should be
able to get a portion of these monies. No further discussion, Alderman Adams
motioned to authorize expenditure of $1000 to join the North Carolina Beach
Inlet and Waterway Association. Motion seconded by Alderman Powell. Vote
carried.
NORTHWOOD CEMETERY AND LOWE- WHITE PARK
Alderman Fisher presented the following proposal for board review. He stated
funds are budgeted in FY 05-06 budget to assist with funding improvements.
“It is my opinion that we need a written program to improve the current
situations that exist at Lowe-White Park and Northwood Cemetery. Therefore, I
propose the following plan for Board approval. This plan will have three
phases.
PHASE I. The Mayor and Board will provide the City Manager their vision,
thoughts and improvements for Lowe White Park and Northwood by November 30,
2005. During this same period, the City Manager through his staff will develop
vision, thoughts, and improvements for subject locations.
PHASE II. The City Manager will provide the Board with an outline plan or
concept plan for Lowe-White and Northwood. This plan will be presented to the
Board by January 16, 2006.
PHASE III. During the Board’s Retreat in 2006, Lowe-White and Northwood will be
discussed and a recommended course of action be given to the City Manager for
execution.”
Alderman Adams asked that the holding yard off of Leonard Street be included.
Mayor stated when plans are developed; the entire area i.e. the Swamp Garden
should be included.
The general consensus of the board is to follow the plan outlined by Alderman
Fisher.
RESOLUTION – STEP FAMILY DAY
Alderman Callari motioned to adopt the Proclamation recognizing September 16,
2005 as Step Family Day. Motion seconded by Alderman Brown. Vote carried.
STEP FAMILY DAY PROCLAMATION
WHEREAS, in the City of Southport, North Carolina, Stepfamily Day is enhanced
by our strong commitment to support the stepfamilies of our nation in their
mission to raise their children, create strong family structures to support the
individuals members of the family, instill in them a sense of responsibility to
all extended family members; and
WHEREAS, approximately half of all Americans are currently involved in some
form of stepfamily relationship and it is the vision of Founder, Michigan’s
Christy Borgeld and the Stepfamily Association of America that all stepfamilies
in the ’’’’United States’’ be accepted, supported and successful.
WHEREAS, Southport, and our nation has been blessed by thousands upon thousands
of loving stepparents and stepchildren who are daily reminders of the joy,
trials, and triumphs of the stepfamily experience and of the boundless love
contained in the bond between all types of parents and children; and
WHEREAS, Stepfamily Day is a day to celebrate the many invaluable contributions
stepfamilies have made to enriching the lives and life experience of the
children and parents of America and to strengthening the fabric of American
families and society
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the City of Southport Board of Aldermen that they
hereby recognize and designate September 16th, 2005 as “Stepfamily Day” in the
City of Southport to celebrate the stepfamily relationships here and across the
nation.
DULY RESOLVED THIS THE 11th DAY OF AUGUST, 2005.
S/Norman R. Holden, Mayor
ATTEST:
S /Regina W. Alexander
City Clerk
CADES COVE SUBDIVISION – PRELIMINARY PLAT
Mr. Jerry Haire, Planning Consultant for the CADES Cove project presented a
revised preliminary plat which refined the project by reducing lot sizes and
street amenities with no change to access points, location of streets, but
reduced total number of lots to 105. He stated all necessary construction
permits have been obtained and the project is underway. (Project vested with
the preliminary plan approved August of 2004 to proceed with construction
permits.) The details in the refinement process led to revisions that staff
requested be presented to the Board. All concerns and checklist items have been
addressed per staff’s recommendation with approval from the Planning Board
(July).
In response to question by Alderman Powell, Mr. Haire stated that they can
build 29 (3 bedroom homes) with current sewer allocation. (Phase I)
Mayor Holden asked about the estimated time for Phase IV. Mr. Haire stated this
depends on sewer allocation. Mayor Holden voiced concerns about the traffic
coming out on 14th street. Mr. Haire responded that DOT has asked them to
create a limited access movement at the 14th street intersection. They want to
develop this and open it up for construction access. They propose to rough in
the infrastructure of the roads which is a part of Phase I as they move into
Phase II, depending on the need. DOT recommended they do a limited access via
raised median for a right-in and right-out access at that location. DOT also
asked them to widen and create a left turn-in lane on Robert Ruark Drive. Mr.
Haire stated that he understand concerns about the right-out only access adding
to the downtown congestion and the need for a turn around to go back out of
town. A future option is to connect Caswell Avenue to 14th street that will
come out to a full moving intersection that can provide a right turn coming
into down town.
Mayor stated future development is going to create a terrible traffic area onto
Howe Street and requested they work with DOT to endeavor to reduce traffic
coming onto Howe.
Alderman Adams stated he can not support the preliminary plat with what DOT has
approved for the developer regarding the proposed traffic pattern. He has no
problem with the access points but the design and function.
Attorney Isenberg asked Mr. Haire if he can record the plat with Phase I &
Phase II with access out to Robert Ruark since the Board is having problems
with the access on 14th Street. Mr. Haire stated this can be done, however the
intent is to open up 14th Street access somewhere between Phase II and Phase
III for construction. He stated they do not have a schedule for the future
development on 14th Street. Timing depends on sewer allocation.
Alderman Powell suggested making 14th Street one way going into the
development. Mr. Haire asked as an alternative if the Board will approve the
revised plan with Phase IV approval contingent on further design. They will
agree that Phase IV not be developed until such time that an agreeable design
is made to 14th Street or make it a one way in or eliminate it altogether. Mr.
Haire stated it is a stretch to proceed on just part of a preliminary plan
since it has already been approved and they have permits for the entire
project. They are willing to work with staff and DOT on the design and
function, without holding a portion of the project back.
After much discussion, Mr. Haire stated they will work with staff and DOT to
formulate a workable plan.
Due to sufficient sewer allocation, Alderman Powell motioned to approve the
Preliminary Plan for Phase I and Phase II. Alderman Callari seconded the
motion. The votes were:
      4 ayes: Aldermen Powell, Brown, Callari and Childs.
      2 noes: Aldermen Fisher and Adams
ORDER OF COLLECTION -TAX COLLECTOR
Aldermen Brown motioned to adopt the Order of Collection authorizing the Tax
Collector to collect taxes for FY 2005-2006. Motion seconded by Aldermen
Callari.
Order of Collection
State of North Carolina
City of Southport
To the Tax Collector of the City of Southport:
You are hereby authorized, empowered, and commanded to collect the taxes set
forth in the tax records filed in the office of the City of Southport and in
the tax receipts herewith delivered to you, in the amounts and from the
taxpayers likewise therein set forth. Such taxes are hereby declared to be a
first lien upon all real property of the respective taxpayers in the City of
Southport, and this order shall be full and sufficient authority to direct,
require and enable you to levy on and sell any real or personal property of
such taxpayers, for and on account thereof, in accordance with law.
Witness my hand and official seal this the 11th day of August 2005.
S/Norman Holden
Mayor
S/Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City clerk
LEASE PURCHASE – PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT
The Board reviewed three (3) bids for lease purchase financing arrangements for
2006 Thomas Built Bus for the Parks and Recreation Department. Upon
recommendation of the Finance Director, motion was made by Alderman Powell to
award the bid to BB&T Governmental Finance for a 5 year term at 3.57% w/no fee
with annual payment of $12,470.80 which totaled $62,354.00. Motion seconded by
Alderman Childs. Vote was unanimous.
BUDGET AMENDMENTS
Alderman Callari motioned to approve budget amendments 1-3 as presented by the
Finance Director. Motion seconded by Alderman Brown, vote carried.
Budget Amendment #1
Fiscal Year 2005-2006
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session August 11, 2005, that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for funding Equipment & Supplies from revenues awarded to
the Southport Fire Dept. from a Fema Fire Grant.
General Fund
                                        Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section I
Revenues Anticipated
   State Shared Revenues/Grants/Refun12,780           901,461
Appropriated Expenditures
   Fire Dept.
      Fema Fire Grant Expenditures12,780           333,212
 
ADOPTED this the 11th day of August, 2005
S/ Norman R. Holden
Mayor
Attest:
S/Regina W. Alexander
Clerk to the Board of Aldermen
Budget Amendment #2
Fiscal Year 2005-2006
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session August 11, 2005, that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for funding Capital Outlay for Underground Installation in
Smithfield Woods.
Electric Fund
                             Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section IV
Revenues Anticipated
   Appropriated Fund Balan212,150          212,150
Appropriated Expenditures
   Operating & Maintenance
      Capital Outlay Sy212,150          5,439,577
 
ADOPTED this the 11th day of August, 2005
S/Norman R. Holden
Mayor
ATTEST:
S/Regina W. Alexander
Clerk to the Board
Budget Amendment #3
Fiscal Year 2005-2006
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session August 11, 2005, that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for funding Capital Outlay for Earnest Money to Cameron
Company, L.L.C for Land Purchase Contract.
Water & Sewer
                             Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section V
Revenues Anticipated
   Appropriated Fund Balan50,000           137,140
Appropriated Expenditures
   Operating & Maintenance
      Capital Outlay Sy50,000           2,027,540
 
ADOPTED this the 11th day of August, 2005
S/Norman R. Holden
Mayor
ATTEST:
S/Regina W. Alexander
Clerk to the Board
OTHER BUSINESS
RESOLUTION – DESIGNATION OF APPLICANT’S AGENT
Alderman Childs motioned to adopt a resolution designating an applicant agent
for disaster assistance from Hurricane Bonnie and Charlie. City Manager Gandy
explained that the City was denied disaster relief funds for these storms which
totaled $85,000. The State has since made a declaration in which the City could
possibly receive a 75% reimbursement ($64,000). Approval of this resolution
will designate the City Manager as the primary agent and finance director as
secondary agent to sign off on the paper work. Motion seconded by Alderman
Brown, vote carried. (Copy of Resolution Incorporated as Attachment #1)
MARINA COMMITTEE
Alderman Childs, Chairperson of the Marina Committee reported that they met
three times and it is comprised of citizens from the community and three
Aldermen.
·   First meeting, the Committee asked the Mayor to write to the Governor
communicating that the citizens were intent upon acquiring the marina and asked
that all lease negotiations between the state and lease holder be deferred
until the the Board of Aldermen could meet with the Governor or his
Representative.
(Mayor wrote a letter which was read by Alderman Childs)
Alderman Fisher motioned that the Board of Aldermen authorize Alderman Childs
to negotiate on behalf of the Board of Aldermen in carrying out the objectives
of the Board to acquire the Southport Marina. The motion was seconded by
Alderman Brown. Vote of approval was unanimous.
UDO COMMITTEE
Alderman Childs reported on the UDO Committee comprised of Barbara Clewis,
Aldermen Callari, Powell and herself.
·   Purpose of the Committee being appointed was a result of some
misunderstanding between the Board and the people who wrote the UDO. She
related it was her belief that mixed use development was permitted in the
Central Business District (CBD) which is historical to that district. In
working with citizens that is trying to execute mixed use development, it was
found that the Planning Board and the Planner has a different view, therefore a
meeting was held and they met with the Planning Board to address this issue.
Other issues were discussed which included the following:
1)    To impose 1 year time limit for planned building groups and subdivisions
plat approvals. Construction must begin within 1 year after approval.
2)    New District designated as Marina District.
3)    Make single family residential dwellings a conditional use in the O & I,
CBD, BD and HC zoning districts.
4)    Prohibit signs within the ROW or on public property unless the sign
promotes the city.
5)    Parking requirements
6)    Reduce height maximum
7)    Reduce multi-family density requirements from 11 units per acre to lower
8)    Bulk up on landscaping requirements
9)   Require percentage of open space that is in addition to any wetland areas
or storm water ponds
Alderman Childs asked that the Board of Aldermen request the Planning Board to
change the UDO to allow for mixed use in the Central Business District, (CBD)
and to establish a Marina District
Attorney Isenberg stated that in order for the Board of Aldermen to consider
amendments to the UDO, recommendations must be submitted from the Planning
Board and advertised for Public Hearing before Board action.
Mayor Holden recommended the UDO Committee send their recommendation to the
Planning Board for the August 18th meeting and once they have reviewed these,
submit their recommendation to the Board of Aldermen for the September meeting.
He suggested Alderman Childs’s Committee prioritize the changes, ex: place the
central business district as number one and Marina as number two, whichever the
Committee deem is most important.
Alderman Powell communicated that an educational work session will be held on
the section in the UDO regarding storm water August 29, 7:00 p.m., Community
Building with Consultant Jeanette Powell from AMEC International.
UNDERGROUND ELECTRIC PROJECT
Alderman Fisher reported that the city has installed underground conduit at
South Howe Street, West West, West Bay, West West West, which is part of the
City’s ten Year Work Plan. Cables will be pulled and transformers installed. At
this time, citizens will be encouraged to go with underground service. City
representatives will be meeting with BEMC to develop a financial incentive plan
to encourage residents to connect to the underground service. The City will be
negotiating with Bell South and Time Warner to encourage them to place their
cables underground.
ELECTRICITIES
Alderman Fisher stated he received a call from the CEO of ElectriCities. The
City Manager and Public Services Director will attend a Progress Energy Command
Conference in September. Prior to the conference, the CEO will visit Southport
and hold a meeting in order to answer questions and explain their programs.
Alderman Fisher told the Board a study should be completed by the September
meeting showing the cost of electricity without the 2% growth that is factored
in each.
CONGRESS MCINTYRE
Mayor Holden announced that Congressman McIntyre will be at the Fire Station,
2:00 p.m. on August 16th.
ADJOURNMENT
Alderman Childs motioned for adjournment, seconded by Alderman Brown. Vote
carried.
S/James Brown, Mayor Pro Tempore
S/Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
AUGUST 29, 2005
JOINT MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN/PLANNING BOARD JOINT MEETING
AUGUST 29, 2005                  7:00 P.M.
COMMUNITY BUILDING               SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
ALDERMEN PRESENT: James Brown, Mayor Pro Tem
            Jim Powell, Stuart Callari and Meezie Childs
PLANNING BOARD:   Barbara Clewis, Chairperson
            Susan Toth, Sandra Spencer, Harley Lemons,
            Dale McPherson, Stephanie VanNoordt and
            Buddy Barnes
STAFF PRESENT:      Robert Grant, Public Services Director
            Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
            Regina W. Alexander, City Clerk
            Michele Windham, Secretary to Planning Board
OTHER:         Jeanette Powell, Consultant, AMEC
The Board of Aldermen and the Planning Board met jointly to hold a workshop on
Storm water Management. Alderman Powell introduced Ms. Jeanette Powell,
Consultant for AMEC International.
Ms. Powell presented a power point presentation on Storm Water Management in
Southport.
·   Storm water is the runoff from rainfall events
·   Storm water problems results from water quantity and quality
·   Problems are addressed by storm water management ordinance, design manuals,
minimum standards, public education, outreach and voluntary programs.
·   Southport’s tool box consist of storm water ordinance, storm water permit
and storm water management plan technical manual
·   Southport’s ordinance protects, maintain and enhance public health, safety
and general welfare. Establish minimum requirements to control storm water from
new development and provide for the issuance of a storm water permit for new
development.
·   Southport’s storm water ordinance protects, maintain and enhance by
minimizing damage to public and private property, ensure a functional drainage
system, reduce effects of development, assist in attainment of water quality
standards, reduce local flooding and drainage problems, maintain pre-developed
runoff characteristics and mitigate flooding and drainage impacts.
·   The minimum requirements for new development are storm water permit,
discharge control plan, access to facilities, inspection of facilities and
facility maintenance.
·   The following are not subject to a storm water permit: Farming and logging,
additions or modifications to an existing house, residential development on a
single existing lot, development or single family residentially zoned parcels,
necessary repairs to a storm water treatment practice.
·   Subject to the storm water permits: development can’t commence until storm
water permit is issued, conditional upon receipt of a state E/SC Permit, must
meet NCDENR State Storm Water Management Program requirements which are valid
for 1 year.
·   Waivers can be obtained for developments that do not impair objectives of
the ordinance, cannot feasibly do on site management, and does not impact
downstream structure, habitat, erosion and flooding. Mitigation is required for
land preservation, retrofits on existing development, free in lieu to fund
storm water studies.
·   Storm water permit non-compliance includes investigation of formal
complaints, written notification of violations and remedies, misdemeanor fine
of $50 and/or 30 days imprisonment. Civil penalty of $25 (Ms. Powell did state
that the state charges $35,000)
·   Storm water permit suspension and revocation includes notice of violation,
stop work order, restoration of lands, and holds on occupancy permits and
property lien for failure to maintain.
·   Performance Bond Security may be required for permit issuance, estimated
construction costs + 25%, released with as-built plans & PE Certification, and
partial pro-rata release at city’s discretion.
·   Southport’s Storm water Management Plan Technical Manual design standards
and guidance for detention and wet retention facilities, infiltration systems,
operation and maintenance of facilities, piped drainage systems, open channels,
constructions standards and inlets.
·   Requirements for storm water discharge control facilities: Provide velocity
control, 25 year peak = existing peak evaluate & address downstream flooding
(25 yr & 100 yr events). Inspect and maintain facilities, dedicate access for
maintenance, designed by appropriately licensed professional. City may add on
to address existing problems.
·   Retention Pond is required for commercial or multi-family development that
is less than 1 acre and greater than 40% developed or greater than 1 acre and
greater than 25% impervious.
·   Design requirements for detention and retention facilities: Design for the
25 year event, downstream flooding check for 100 year event and encouraged as
an Amenity/Visual Enhancement.
During the presentation, attendees asked many pointed questions relating to
maintenance concerns, the North Carolina State Stormwater Plan, retention
ponds, watershed studies, easements, construction, etc. Increasing fines for
non-compliance was emphasized.
After the presentation, comments were made on the Storm Water Ordinance. Ms.
Powell commented that Southport has a good ordinance with a few changes that
she would recommend.
Alderman Powell requested Ms. Powell to submit a proposal to the City
delineating recommended changes to enhance the City’s Storm Water Ordinance.
No further dialogue, the workshop was adjourned.
________________________________
James Brown, Mayor Pro Tempore’
_____________________________
Regina W. Alexander, City Clerk
SEPTEMBER 8, 2005
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING
SEPTEMBER 8, 2005 7:30 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
MEMBERS PRESENT:    James C. Brown, Mayor Pro Tempore’
            Aldermen Nelson E. Adams, Mary “Meezie” Childs,
            James Powell and Mary “Stuart” Callari
MEMBERS ABSENT:   Norman Holden, Mayor
            Paul Fisher, Aldermen
STAFF PRESENT:      Rob Gandy, City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander-CMC, City Clerk
            Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
            Bob Grant, Public Services Director
            Randy Jones, Director of Tourism
The regular monthly meeting of the Southport Board of Aldermen was called to
order at 7:30 p.m. by Mayor Pro Tempore’ James Brown.
Mayor Pro Tem Brown delivered the invocation.
MINUTES
Alderman Powell motioned to approve the special meeting minutes of August 3,
2005 and regular meeting minutes of August 11.  The motion was seconded by
Alderman Callari. The vote of approval was unanimous.
CITIZEN MATTERS
(Non-Agenda Items)
Mr. Randy Fullwood of 4824 Southgate Boulevard stated “as the turmoil surmounts
daily about the marina, let’s not forget the citizens of this fine town can and
do make a difference in the politics of this town.”  He explained in addressing
the Board that change comes through its people, not through construction. He
stated the growth of the town is contingent upon the people having a voice and
constantly being watchful of the construction and happenings that is going on.
Mr. Fullwood stated that the city is allowing developers to come in and change
the face of the town not in a good way, which changes the character. Mr.
Fullwood stated that the Unified Development Ordinance is a good document with
flaws. It is a working document that can be changed in a positive manner which
can be helpful to the citizens of the town, but also detrimental. He stated
that mixed use businesses and residential within the  Central Business District
in Southport will be detrimental. The UDO states it is not allowed, and the
Consultant that assisted with drafting the UDO has informed staff that if
demolition occurs, there will be no parking requirements. Mr. Fullwood asked
the Board to realize the needs of the people rather than the developers.
PUBLIC HEARING-CONTIGUOUS ANNEXATION (G.S. 160A-31)
Alderman Childs motioned to enter Public Hearing, seconded by Alderman Callari
on a request by Cape Fear Development, LLC for contiguous annexation. (1200
North Howe Street). Vote carried.
There were no public comments.
Alderman Callari motioned to close the Public Hearing and re-enter regular
session, seconded by Alderman Childs. Vote carried.
REGULAR SESSION
Alderman Powell motioned to adopt the Annexation Ordinance pursuant to G.S.
160A-31, seconded by Alderman Callari. Vote carried.
AN ORDINANCE TO EXTEND THE CORPORATE LIMITS OF THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT, NORTH
CAROLINA
WHEREAS, the City of Southport has been petitioned under G.S. 160A-31 to annex
the area described below; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen has by resolution directed the City Clerk to
investigate the sufficiency of the petition; and
WHEREAS, the City Clerk has certified the sufficiency of the petition and a
public hearing on the question of this annexation was held at Southport City
Hall at 7:30 p.m. on September 8, 2005 after due notice by publication in the
State Port Pilot on August 24 and August 31, 2005, and;
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen finds that the petition meets the requirements
of G.S. 160A-31;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of Southport, North
Carolina that:
Section 1. By virtue of the authority granted by G.S. 160A-31, the following
described territory is hereby annexed and made part of the City of Southport
effective immediately
Beginning at a nail in the pavement where the Northern line of Stuart Avenue,
having a 66 foot right-of way, is intersected by the Eastern line of North Howe
Street (N.C. Highway 211, 80 foot right-of-way); running thence from said
beginning point North 18 Degrees 00 Minutes West along the Eastern line of
North Howe Street 119.68 feet to an existing iron pipe; thence North 72 degrees
31 Minutes 30 Seconds East 327.09 feet to a new iron rod in the Western line of
S.R. 1542 (60 foot right-of-way); thence South 13 Degrees 59 Minutes East along
the Western line of S.R. 1542 119.45 feet to a new iron rod at its intersection
with the Northern line of Stuart Avenue; thence South 72 Degrees 26 Minutes 41
Seconds West along the Northern line of Stuart Avenue 318.72 feet to the point
of beginning. Described property containing 38570.70 sq. ft. 0.89 Acres
Section 2. Upon and after September 8, 2005 the above described territory and
its citizens and property shall be subject to all debts, laws, ordinances and
regulations in force in the City of Southport and shall be entitled to the same
privileges and benefits as other parts of the City of Southport. Said territory
shall be subject to municipal taxes according to G.S. 160A-58.10.
Section 3.  The Mayor of the City of Southport shall cause to be recorded in
the office of the Register of Deeds of Brunswick County, and in the office of
the Secretary of State at Raleigh, North Carolina, an accurate map of the
annexed territory, described in Section 1 above, together with a duly certified
copy of this ordinance. Such a map shall also be delivered to the County Board
of Elections, as required by G. S. 163-288.1.
ADOPTED, this the 8th day of September 2005.
S/James Brown
Mayor Pro Tempore
ATTEST:
S/Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
PUBLIC HEARING – UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
Alderman Adams motioned, seconded by Alderman Childs to enter Public Hearing to
consider an amendment recommended by the Planning Board to the Unified
Development Ordinance and table of permitted uses; residential housing types.
The amendment reflects the change of single family detached as a permitted use
in the Central Business District (CBD), Business District (BD), Office and
Institutional District (O&I) and Highway Commercial (HC) to a Conditional Use
in these zoning districts. The vote of approval was unanimous.
Mr. Tom Peterson, representing Cape Fear Landing, LLC explained that his
client’s subdivision is being developed under the Unified Development Ordinance
as it presently exists and asked the Board to adhere to the policy and provide
that any text amendments to the UDO will not affect any projects that have been
submitted to the city for approval. They will continually work with staff to
ensure that their project is in compliance with all aspects of the current
Unified Development Ordinance.
No other comments, Alderman Callari motioned to close the public hearing and
re-enter regular session, seconded by Alderman Childs, vote carried.
REGULAR SESSION
Mayor Pro Tem Brown stated that it is the consensus of the Board to defer
action on this matter until all Board members are present. Motion was made by
Alderman Childs, seconded by Alderman Powell to defer consideration of amending
the Unified Development Ordinance until a later date.  The vote of approval was
unanimous.
PUBLIC HEARING- CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT
Alderman Childs motioned to enter Public Hearing, seconded by Alderman Callari
on a request by Mr. Cameron Smith for a Conditional Use Permit to construct a
boat dock at his property known as “Bonnet’s Landing” located at 704 East Moore
Street. Vote of approval was unanimous.
No comments, Alderman Childs motioned to close the Public Hearing and re-enter
regular session, seconded by Alderman Callari. Vote carried.
REGULAR SESSION
Alderman Childs motioned to approve the request from Mr. Cameron Smith for
a Conditional Use Permit to construct a boat dock. Motion seconded by Alderman
Callari and the vote of approval was unanimous.
BRUNSWICK CITIZENS FOR A SAFE ENVIRONMENT
Ms. Veronica Carter, representing Brunswick Citizens for a Safe Environment
addressed the Board regarding the proposed Hugo Neu project.(Handouts were
given to the Board) She stated this organization is fighting the proposed Hugo
Neu Landfill proposed to be built in Navassa, N. C. on a 750 acre site which
Navassa obtained through satellite annexation. She asked the Board to consider
adopting a resolution opposing this project, the same as some neighboring
towns.
Mayor Pro Tem Brown thanked Ms. Carter for the presentation and stated it is
the Board’s wish to ascertain the sentiments of the citizens before taking
action on her request.
CATHOLIC HOUSING – SACRED HEART VILLAS
Ms. Rita Blackmon, Managing Agent for Catholic Housing, Sacred Heart Villas,
LLC asked for a modification to their existing Agreement between the City of
Southport and Sacred Heart Villas, changing the billing rate of 5000 GPD to
actual usage retroactive to January 1, 2005. She stated their usage is one half
of what they are actually paying for is the reason for this request.
Alderman Childs motioned to modify the agreement to actual usage retroactive to
July 1, 2005.  Motion seconded by Alderman Powell, vote carried.
Attorney Isenberg asked that the contract amendment modification be presented
in writing in order for it to be executed.
SOUTHPORT HISTORICAL SOCIETY
Mr. Peter Wyckoff, President of the Southport Historical Society, introduced
Beverly Wyckoff, Curator of the Old Jail Museum. Mrs. Wyckoff stated since
opening on June 1, 2005, 750 people have visited the Old Jail Museum; they have
approximately 30 volunteer docents from the Southport Historical Society. An
Advisory Board of 6 people has been established, a Task Force to create the
1904 Family Life Room which will depict family life in Southport during this
period, and a Task Force for research and archives. They have a volunteer Site
Manager with a work crew who continues to work on the restoration and building
maintenance. They have partnered with an Eagle Scout from Trinity Methodist
Church who is creating a walkway with memorial bricks that were sold as a fund
raiser. On behalf of the Southport Historical Society thanks were extended to
the Board for their support.
MAIN STREET PROGRAM – RESOLUTION
Ms. Susan Farley stated Southport was once a part of the Main Street Program
and asked for a resolution from the Board endorsing the application process to
become a part of the program. She stated $12,000 has been budgeted in the
Department of Tourism budget which will be repaid by the Southport Merchant’s
and Southport Historical Society through fundraisers.
For clarification, City Manager Gandy stated the Project Director is not a city
position and will be on a contractual basis between the Department of Tourism,
Merchants Association and the Southport Historical Society.
Alderman Callari motioned, seconded by Alderman Powell to adopt a resolution in
support of the main street program. Vote of approval was unanimous.
RESOLUTION IN SUPPORT OF THE MAIN STREET PROGRAM
WHEREAS, the City of Southport recognizes the importance of keeping the
downtown area of Southport vital, alive and dynamic;
WHEREAS, the City of Southport has over the years made a substantial investment
in the downtown infrastructure, landscaping and amenities and will continue to
do so;
WHEREAS, the City of Southport partners with the Merchants Association in
shaping the future of the downtown area;
WHEREAS, the City of Southport, Southport Historical Society and the Merchants
Association will fund the position of Project Manager for the City’s Main
Street Program;
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Mayor and Board of Aldermen of the City
of Southport offer our full endorsement of the city’s application to the Main
Street Program and will work with the Merchants Association to ensure adequate
funding for the endeavor.
ADOPTED, this the 8th day of September 2005.
S/James C. Brown, Mayor Pro Tempore
ATTEST:
S/Regina W. Alexander, City Clerk
NO OCTANE REGATTA
Alderman Childs motioned, seconded by Alderman Callari to adopt a Resolution in
support of the 6th annual No Octane Regatta scheduled for Saturday, September
10, 2005. The vote of approval was unanimous.
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the 6th annual No Octane Regatta will be held in Southport on
Saturday, September 10, 2005; and
WHEREAS, the citizens of this community will have the opportunity to compete in
kayaking, canoeing and bicycle events; and
WHEREAS, we realize that participating in organized sporting events help build
character, sportsmanship, enthusiasm and team play; and
WHEREAS, the City of Southport recognizes and commends all organizations
affiliated with this event.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the City of Southport supports this regatta
and extends greetings and best wishes to all participants on a successful
event; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that all residents are asked to be cognizant of this
occasion and the importance of organized sporting events in the lives of our
citizens.
DULY ADOPTED this the 8th day of September, 2005.
S/ James Brown, Mayor Pro-Tempore
Attest:
S/ Regina W. Alexander, Clerk
ASCAP MUSIC LICENSE AGREEMENT-COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT
City Manager Gandy told the Board that the issue of music copyright
infringement has been discussed with regards to public performances of
copyrighted music. After discussion with the City Attorney, they were in
agreement that in order to avoid copyright infringement and penalties imposed
as a result of violation, it is recommended that the city enter into a music
licensing agreement. The annual base license fee of municipalities under 50,000
population is $268.
Alderman Callari motioned, seconded by Alderman Childs to approve the music
licensing agreement with ASCAP.  The vote of approval was unanimous. (Agreement
drafted by the American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers).
(Agreement Incorporated as Attachment #1)
CREDIT CARD POLICY
City Manager stated adopting this policy is a means to improve internal
control. The policy has been reviewed by the City Auditor and is recommended.
Alderman Childs motioned to approve the Credit Card Policy, seconded by
Alderman Callari. Vote of approval was unanimous.
City of Southport Credit Card Policy
SUBJECT: Credit Card Usage in the Performance of City Business
PURPOSE: To establish criteria for the use of credit and purchase cards issued
on behalf of the City in the course of performing City business. To standardize
the documentation and reporting of business expenses, so that all City
employees/officials are guided by a common set of expense guidelines
established by the City of Southport, Local Government Fiscal Control Act and
IRS Regulations.
PROCEDURE:
Business Credit Card: Business Credit Cards will be available for check out not
more than one (1) day prior to their anticipated use from the Finance
Department for the use of the Mayor, Aldermen, the City Manager and City
Employees. The individual to whom the card is issued is responsible for the
card and its proper use. The City Manager will have final approval authority on
credit card issuance. The Finance Director will be responsible for verifying
reconciliation of all credit card usage and charges pursuant to this policy.
The credit card is to be used for approved, official business only.  The City
recognizes that occasionally it will be good business for a City Official to
buy meals when working with existing or potential business investors, agencies
that might purchase City services Such use of the credit card is recognized to
be a legitimate expense of the City whether used locally or while traveling as
long as it is an ordinary and/or necessary expense as regulated by IRS.
For other travel expenses, the credit card will only be used for securing and
confirming lodging and travel reservations. Once the reservation is confirmed,
the employee/official is to submit a Travel Expense Request two weeks in
advance for Lodging, Meals, Mileage, Registration and other related
miscellaneous fees. A check will be issued to that employee/official one (1)
day, prior to departure. In the event, that travel plans are cancelled and an
employee has received an advance, the City must be reimbursed immediately.
The credit card will not be used in lieu of the normal purchasing procedures of
the City of Southport. In the event that a vendor will not bill the City with
the security of purchase order number, an exception will be made. This
exception is made only after the employee follows the correct procedure of
obtaining a purchase order prior to the purchase as required by Local
Government Commission’s. No item over $5,000 will be charged on the City Credit
Card.
Personal use of credit cards is strictly prohibited and subject to disciplinary
actions to include termination of employment.
Reconciliation- Credit card activity must be reconciled as established below:
The Cardholder will submit receipts and/or documentation describing and
appropriately coding each transaction on a purchase order immediately. All
lodging receipts and daily meal expenditures that exceed $75.00 are to be
submitted as required by IRS regulations.
Receipt/documentation should be completed and the card returned to the City not
later than one (1) day after use. In the event of a lost or missing receipt,
the City employee/official will be held personally responsible for the expense
and must compensate the City immediately.
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen on September 8, 2005.
S/James Brown, Mayor Pro Tempore
ATTEST:
S/Regina Alexander, City Clerk
BEAUTIFICATION COMMITTEE
Mr. Ed Buguskie of 502 West Brown Street reported on the Southport Fall
Community Sweep that will begin on September 17. He asked Aldermen and citizens
to come out and support the cleanup which begins 8:30 a.m. at Waterfront Park.
Southport’s fall clean-up is being held concurrently with the toxic waste pick
up that will be at Wal-Mart. A dumpster will be provided by the City from
September 12-17 in which residents can bring other items other than what is
collected street side. Bags will be located at City Hall for anyone wishing to
clean a block or street prior to the 17th.
Mayor Pro Tem stated the kick off is keeping in conjunction with Governor
Easley’s Clean Sweep Program and a dumpster will be located at Lowe White Park.
OTHER BUSINESS
City Manager Gandy informed the Board that he has received concerns from
citizens along Bay Street about the noise from the firing of the cannon by the
Southport Historical Society. He met with citizens and representatives from the
Southport Historical Society during the spring and some of the citizens met
with the Southport Historical Society Board of Directors to try and resolve
this issue. As a result of the meeting, the Historical Society drafted a set of
rules to govern firing of the cannon. Recently, he was contacted by a concerned
citizen who is still being disrupted by the noise and requested the city
enforce its Noise Ordinance. It was explained that the Southport Historical
Society use firing of the cannon for private events as a means of raising
funds. The citizen asked that the Historical Society curtail the firing of
cannons for private events. He asked the Board for recommendations and
requested the City Attorney respond to the question of being in violation of
the City’s Noise Ordinance.
Mayor Pro Tem Brown asked about the number of times the cannon is fired for
private events. Mr. Bill Fravel stated this depends on requests, sometimes the
cannon may be fired two to three times over a weekend. They will provide the
Board with a list of scheduled activities. Mayor Pro Tem Brown stated this
matter will be turned over to the City Attorney for review.
Mr. Jim Clary, a resident of East Bay Street expressed concern that the cannon
is being fired every weekend, especially in the summer months. Some of the
residents fear that the momentum is being picked up and they ask that the
cannon firings be reserved for honorary and patriotic events.
HURRICANE KATRINA
Alderman Adams asked if the City has made any plans to aid Katrina Hurricane
victims through disaster relief. City Manager Gandy gave the Board a handout
that governs expenditure of public funds. Alderman Adams suggested the City
establish one day for disaster relief and insure that the public is aware of
it. He suggested water, clothing etc. and the possibility of having a focal
point to drop these supplies off within the City. He also suggested the
possibility of transporting these supplies to a location where supplies are
being shipped to Louisiana, possibly Wilmington. Mrs. Jewell Prendeville
recommended cleaning supplies be added to the list. City Manager Gandy asked
Ms. Prendeville if she will work with the City through the Inter Church
Fellowship to help coordinate this effort.
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE COMMITTEE
Alderman Childs stated the UDO Committee did not meet as scheduled due to
postponement of the meeting by request of Mr. Holland as a result of the
impending gas shortage.
Alderman Childs asked that a recommendation be made to the Planning Board
pertaining to mixed use in the Central Business District and to establish
a Marina Zone. Alderman Childs asked the Board to schedule a Public Hearing at
the October 13th meeting on any recommendations that the Planning Board submits
from its September meeting. City Manager Gandy will contact staff and request
that these items be placed on the Planning Board’s September agenda. UDO
workshop scheduled at 6:00 p.m., September 22, 2005.
MARINA COMMITTEE
Alderman Childs stated the Marina Committee continues to meet jointly with the
Save the Marina Committee. The Marina Committee requested the City Manager, Bob
Grant and Wayne Strickland to perform an inspection based on the report that
the City has concerning violations.
City Manager Gandy stated the results of an inspection performed by the State
Building Inspector in February 2005 listed several deficiencies. Per request of
the Marina Committee, staff visited those areas with the Manager of the Marina.
A report was provided to him along with other observations and a list of
estimates on repairs.
·   Main problems are concrete docks...3 docks (1 can’t be removed because it
help supports a structure)
·   3 concrete docks need to be removed, pilings almost non-existent
·   Building that houses the restaurant is in bad shape, ADA non compliant and
other electrical problems
·   Dry rack storage building in disrepair, needs to come down
Mayor Pro Tem Brown announced that part time personnel have been hired by the
Police Department and the department is opened from 8:30 a.m. to 12:00 mid
night 7 days a week. The Police Department received four computers through the
Law Enforcement Support Services which represents an $8,000 savings to the
City. Congressman McIntyre secured $1,905 to replace ballistic vests. In order
to economize on gas, Police Department has increased stationary patrols, foot,
bicycle patrols and motorcycle.
Alderman Callari communicated that Alderman Fisher suggested the Board of
Aldermen have a workshop to discuss developing a plan of action in case the
entire city had to be evacuated. It was agreed that this is a good idea and
Mayor Pro Tem asked the Board to consider this request and think about a time
that this workshop can be held.
City Manager Gandy communicated that the City has a Disaster Relief Plan in
place and it can be expanded. Alderman Adams asked that a copy of the Plan be
provided to the Board.
ADJOURNMENT
No further business, meeting was adjourned upon motion of Alderman Childs and
seconded by Alderman Callari, vote carried.
S/James C. Brown, Mayor Pro Tempore
S/Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
OCTOBER 13, 2005
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING
OCTOBER 13, 2005  7:30 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, NC
 
MEMBERS PRESENT:    Norman R. Holden, Mayor
            James Brown, Mayor Pro Tem
            Aldermen Paul Fisher, James Powell, Stuart Callari,
            Nelson Adams and Meezie Childs
MEMBERS ABSENT:   None
STAFF PRESENT:      Rob Gandy, City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander-CMC, City Clerk
            Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
            Bob Grant, Public Services Director
The regular monthly meeting of the Southport Board of Aldermen was called to
order at 7:30 p.m. by Mayor Norman Holden.
Alderman Brown delivered the invocation.
MINUTES
Alderman Powell motioned, seconded by Alderman Callari to approve the s pecial
meeting minutes of August 29, 2005 and regular meeting minutes of September 8,
2005 . The vote was unanimous.
CITIZEN MATTERS
(Non-Agenda)
For the benefit of the public, Mayor Holden announced that early voting will
begin October 20 at the Board of Elections office in Bolivia and urged citizens
to vote.
Mayor stated having been contacted by several citizens concerning mixed use in
the Central Business District ; this matter will be considered at a special
meeting of the Board on October 25, 2005 at 6:30 p.m.
Mr. Bill Duke of 215 North Caswell Avenue spoke on behalf of the Committee to
save the Southport Marina. He stated that “our Committee remains unified to
honor the request of 7,500 citizens to return the marina to Southport and to
keep it a public facility. At the recent Planning Board meeting Dale Holland
presented and the Planning Board agreed with his proposal concerning the zoning
of Southport Marina. As discussed at this meeting these zoning recommendations
will be in effect if only the ownership of the marina is maintained by the
State of North Carolina or the City of Southport. It was also discussed and
agreed upon that these proposed zoning ordinances should be recommended to the
Board of Aldermen as soon as possible. It was also agreed that additional
proposed zoning requirements would be developed because of any potential
transfer of ownership to a private concern. Our Committee would like to be on
record saying that we believe the Board of Aldermen has a larger responsibility
to the citizens of Southport than to piece meal this approval process. By doing
this the City is only partially empowered with zoning ordinances. With private
ownership, the city will be powerless in any zoning efforts. We recommend the
following: Since the City of Southport has employed Dale Holland; we recommend
that he turn up his timetable for developing zoning proposals for both
government and private ownership. Taxpayers dollars are paying for his
professional counsel and the taxpayers would like a designing proposal
forwarded to the Board of Aldermen yesterday. We accept, why accept only half
of what is truly needed and what we’ve all been working for. Mr. Holland needs
a sense of urgency and you the Aldermen should not accept anything less than
the complete proposal. Thank you very much.”
PUBLIC HEARING
Alderman Childs motioned to enter Public Hearing, seconded by Alderman Callari
to discuss zoning text amendment change, Major and Minor Subdivisions
addressing Section 25-13: Lot Standards, (B) Minimum Dimensions.  The vote of
approval was unanimous. For benefit of the public, Mayor Holden stated the
standards were approved and inserted in the Zoning Ordinance on May 13, 1999
but were inadvertently omitted in the Unified Development Ordinance. The
Planning Board recommends approval of changes.
Attorney Jay Short told the Board that he represents Cape Fear Trading Group
and stated the Board has made several changes to the UDO since its adoption in
June 2004. As the UDO exists at present, in the business district there are no
minimum square footage requirements and no set back requirements for single
family residential which is a permitted use in the Central Business District as
it exists now. Cape Fear Trading Group bought the Yacht Basin property 2 years
ago and has submitted various mixed use plans to the City which has met with
resistance. As a result of perception of those proposals, Cape Fear Trading
Group recognized that single family residential was a permitted use for that
tract of land and has submitted a plan to the City of Southport. During the
process of submitting their plan, it was learned that the City was going to
modify the UDO to make single family residential use a conditional use for the
Central Business District , not a permitted use.  They also   learned about the
change in the minimum square footage requirements and lot dimensions. Cape Fear
Trading Group submitted a plan to the city prior to the September meeting,
however the Board did not vote at this meeting. Cape Fear Trading has met with
staff to get feedback on their plan and changes to be made. They were told by
Mr. Holland and Strickland their changes would be approved. The changes have
been made and the newly revised plan has been submitted with the use that is
permitted within the UDO. Attorney Short asked if the changes are adopted, to
let their plans as submitted proceed through the process and be exempt from any
new changes the Board may adopt tonight.
After a question from Alderman Childs, Attorney Short responded that the plans
were submitted to Mr. Strickland today.
Alderman Adams stated if the plans are submitted and approved they should be
grand- fathered under the UDO as it exists when the plans were submitted.
Attorney Isenberg stated if the plans have been officially submitted to the
city and fees paid, the Board has the authority if the amendments are adopted,
and to make them apply only to developments submitted after adoption of the
changes.
Alderman Fisher stated the UDO was adopted in June, and if changed tonight,
then anything that has been officially submitted to the Building Inspector or
Planning Board prior to that time, should come under the UDO as it existed when
the plans were submitted.
Mr. Henry Bridgers of 412 East Leonard Street stated in allowing the permitting
of residential housing in the Central Business District, Southport will receive
perpetual complaints from new residents about the noise, traffic, parking,
flooding, sewerage, etc. He stated the City has an inadequate sewer system and
if residential construction is allowed in the Yacht Basin with the addition of
more commodes, this condition will not improve. He stated that he witnessed
sewer being washed into the Yacht Basin with the recent rains.
Mr. Dale McPherson of 108 South Rhett stated when the UDO was originally
adopted there were provisions in the document for conditional uses for
residential in the business district. The Planning Board recommended this in
order to have control over how much residential density is allowed in the
business district. He asked the Board why have a business district if it is not
going to be a business district. He stated residential in the business district
will cause more parking problems and believes the Yacht Basin was inadvertently
changed from a   conditional use to a permitted use. He stated they are trying
to protect the Yacht Basin but believes it is slipping under the fence and will
be all residential. He stated if the city is not careful, everything that draws
people to this town will be no more. If the Board decides to change the zoning
to a conditional use, it is of no use to the city because the very thing that
they are trying to protect will slip through.
Mr. Ed McKinnon of 308 West West Street and a government and economic teacher
at South Brunswick High School encouraged the Board not to sell out with
conditional allowances by killing the “golden goose” of Southport. He
encouraged the Board to keep the fishing village that draws people to this area
and not become a Wrightsville Beach in 10 to 20 years. He asked the Board to
make a conscious decision in what they are going to allow to be built on the
waterfront because it will change everything.
Mr. Ed Boguskie of 502 West Brown Street read excerpts from the City’s
Comprehensive Plan that was adopted in May of 2001. “the zoning regulations
shall be made in accordance with comprehensive plan and design to lessen
congestion in the streets, to provide a land use form that reflects the vision
of the city’s residents is unified to avoid conflicting land uses, optimizing
resources, preserves the city’s character and is pleasing, providing open
space, vistas in distinguishable districts.”
Mr. Randy Fullwood stated growing up in Southport around the Yacht Basis meant
a lot to him and seeing the changes that are proposed is incomprehensible. He
encouraged the Board to preserve the business district and not let it become
residential.
Mr. Bill Bruce engaged with Mr. Rod Hyson of Cape Fear Trading stated under
their plan the amount of sewerage disposal in that area will be less for the
proposed 11 residences than the motel and restaurant that is already there.
Their plan has parking underneath the building for each residence in accordance
with the requirements of the UDO. He stated the UDO will require that the
buildings be constructed in a way that they will be elevated to avoid flooding.
If Mr. Hyson is denied approval to construct residential and commercial
construction is allowed in that area, the city will have the same problem with
flooding and possibly more of a parking problem.
Mr. Henry Bridgers explained for point of clarification the parking he was
referring to was delivery trucks discharging food and the people that live in
this area are inconvenienced for several hours.
No further comments, Alderman Childs motioned to re-enter regular session ,
seconded by Alderman Powell. The vote carried.
ZONING AMENDMENT TEXT CHANGE
Alderman Childs motioned to approve the Zoning Amendment Text Change, Major and
Minor Subdivision, Section 25-13: Lot Standards (b) Minimum
Dimensions.  Discussion: Alderman Fisher asked if plans have been submitted
prior to this text change will they be impacted by the change. Consensus of the
Board was no. Amendment: Alderman Childs amended the motion to make the text
change effective for all plans submitted after date of adoption. Motion
seconded by Alderman Powell and the vote of approval was unanimous.
ZONING AMENDMENT TEXT CHANGE
Article 25. MAJOR AND MINOR SUBDIVISIONS
Section 25-13: Lot Standards
(B)   Minimum Dimensions:
In no case shall any lot have a frontage of less than seventy-five (75) feet,
an average lot depth on land of less than one hundred (100) feet, or a square
footage of less than ten thousand (10,000) square feet in area. Lots located on
the turning circle of a cul-de-sac may have individual minimum frontages of
forty (40) feet per lot provided that the lot shall have a lot width of at
least seventy five (75) feet measured fifty (50) feet from the front property
line and in no case shall any lot less than ten thousand (10,000) square feet
in area.
AMENDMENT TO THE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
The Board considered an amendment to the Unified Development Ordinance and
table of permitted uses; residential housing types.  This amendment was
recommended by the Planning Board and reflects the change of single family
detached from a permitted use in the Central Business District, Business
District, Office and Institutional District and Highway Commercial to a
Conditional Use in these zoning districts.
City Manager Gandy explained that the Planning Board requested the Board
consider making the above changes. Alderman Childs stated she has a problem
with R-10 setbacks if the lot is non-conforming.
After discussion, Alderman Childs motioned to approve the residential housing
type single family detached entry of the table of permitted uses to conditional
use in the O& I, CBD, BD and HC zoning districts  without the R-10 setback
requirements.    Discussion: Alderman Fisher referenced major and minor
subdivisions and recommended five or more lots should be presented to the Board
of Aldermen for approval, not just the Building Inspector. No further
discussion, motion seconded by Alderman Powell, vote carried.
TRAFFIC CORRIDOR STUDY – SOUTHEASTERN BRUNSWICK COUNTY
The Board acknowledged a written request from May Moore, Brunswick County
Commissioner for a $5,000 appropriation to perform a traffic corridor study for
Southeastern Brunswick County. Mayor Holden stated he has attended meetings
with other Mayors pertaining to this study and it appears that there is some
problem with raising the funds. He recommended if the Board decides to fund the
study, it does so contingent upon other municipalities donating the same
amount. In giving the Board background information this request, Mayor
explained that the idea came from Leland as a result of Commissioner Bill Sue
obtaining funding through the Metropolitan Planning Organization. The City of
Southport is under the Rural Planning Organization.
Alderman Adams stated there is no question that a study needs to be made but
believes the County should use ad valorem tax dollars to fund the study.
Alderman Fisher stated as a member of a County Thoroughfare Committee several
years ago, a plan was developed and submitted it to the County Commissioners
and the Department of Transportation with similar proposals. He recommended
that Plan be implemented.
Mayor Holden communicated that several studies are being implemented by the
North Carolina Department of Transportation with the “Moving Ahead Program” and
if the Board so desires, he will request staff to write a letter to
Commissioner Moore and ask her to revisit and implement the old study. The
Board by consensus agreed with this recommendation. Alderman Fisher stated that
Mr. Walton Willis was also involved in the study.
CANNON FIRING
Mayor Holden stated that he requested the City Attorney to research whether or
not the City’s Ordinance can be enforced on Federal property.
Attorney Isenberg stated the firing of the cannon violates two City Ordinances;
however the question is whether or not the City’s Noise Ordinance has any
authority on federal property, he is still researching this matter. It was
explained that City zoning laws does not apply to federal property and it is a
possibility the noise ordinance may not.
COTTAGE POINT SUBDIVISION
Mr. Grant, Public Works Director presented a request from Mr. Roy Pender and
Charles Anderson of the Cottage Point Development. It was requested that the
City accept the infrastructure improvements. Mr. Grant stated the as-built
drawings, engineering certification and a check for a one year warranty bond
has been provided. Staff recommends acceptance of the utilities subject to the
one year warranty period.
Alderman Fisher asked if the as-built meant all the property has been sold,
response no. He stated if the City holds the warranty bond for one (1) year,
and five years later a problem develops, then it is the responsibility of the
city to repair it. He suggested the possibility of extending the surety bond
for the period of the complete build out of a development. Mr. Grant stated he
will research this matter.
Alderman Fisher motioned for acceptance and dedication of utilities and streets
in Cottage Point Subdivision. Motion seconded by Alderman Callari, vote of
approval was unanimous.
PRELIMINARY DESIGN PLAN - OSPREY LANDING (DANIELS TRACT)
City Manager Gandy presented the Preliminary Design Sketch Plan for Osprey
Landing for Board review. Mayor called for questions. There being no comments,
the Board referred the preliminary design to the Planning Board.
Alderman Fisher referenced the interconnectivity of streets, traffic analysis
on preliminary design plans and the statement from the Building Inspector
stating a traffic impact study is not required in the design phase. He
questioned why a traffic impact study is not required in the design phase. He
recommended this be sent to the Planning Board for a recommendation.
Alderman Powell explained the reason that the traffic count came up is because
the subdivision by itself did not require a traffic count, but with the others
that are going in the same general area traffic will increase. When they talked
with the state, it was said that it would benefit them to go ahead and have a
traffic study and by doing it this way means a subdivision will not have to
come up with $250,000 for an intersection that can be divided amongst
developers.
FINAL PLAT OF RIVER MIST AT DUTCHMAN VILLAGE
City Manager Gandy noted that they have completed everything that was asked of
them and recommended approval subject to remaining payment of $854,000 in sewer
impact fees.
Mr. Robert Wilfong of Castles Consulting Engineering representing the River
Mist Project acknowledged the balance of the sewer impact fees and upon
recording the final plat the impact fees will be remitted to the City of
Southport.
No further discussion, Alderman Powell motioned to approve the final plat for
River Mist at Dutchman Village subject to remaining wastewater impact fees in
the amount of $854,000 being remitted to the city prior to sign off of the plat
prior to the City Clerk certifying the plats for recordation . Motion seconded
by Alderman Callari, vote of approval was unanimous.
YARD WASTE PROGRAM
City Manager Gandy reported that staff has looked into the possibility of
providing new roll out carts as part of the city’s yard waste program. He
stated when the city first negotiated the contract with Waste Industries it did
not specify in the contract that Waste Industries would provide replacement
carts. Waste Industries upgraded their carts and the city was allowed to use
the old carts for yard waste, and over a time they were replaced. Approximately
a year ago, Waste Industries stated they could not afford to do this any more
with what they were being paid. City Manager Gandy referenced the Board to
Agenda Item #12 after meeting with Joe McCarthy from Waste Industries. The
company can provide yard debris carts at a cost of $67.50/unit and will
continue to pick up yard debris that is bagged and bundled. In reviewing the
permits issues and account information, the city is adding approximately 12 new
residential accounts each month. If the Board determines to catch up the
accounts initiated since June of 2004 when the cart service was discontinued,
it will cost approximately $12,150. The City currently charges $4.83/month for
solid waste pick-up which includes pick up and not the cart. If the city wants
to go with the carts again, the cost will need to be adjusted to $.675 p/mo to
accommodate cost of the cart, maintenance and replacement costs.
In answer to question from Alderman Powell, City Manager Gandy explained that
the cart service yard debris is not a part of the solid waste contract. This
service is outside of the regular solid waste contract where one cart is
provided for household garbage.
Mayor recommended sending a survey to each property owner to determine if they
want a cart. Alderman Brown suggested the survey ask if there are people that
have a cart and don’t want it, to give it to someone that wants one. After
discussion on whether or not to provide carts to every household, the Board
agreed to place this item on the agenda for the Board’s Retreat in January.
Aldermen Fisher asked the City Manager to provide a recommendation on new
accounts, maintenance and how the contract will be amended. Wants to see this
program continued.
Alderman Brown stated he wishes to see the service continued and the City needs
to make carts available to those people that want them.
CHAMBER OF COMMERCE- BARGE
Alderman Fisher reported that he received a letter from the Chamber of Commerce
and a proposal to obtain a barge through the help of Congressman McIntyre. They
currently pay for a barge to stage fireworks for the 4th of July which cost
$3,000 + which has to be hauled and taken out of service. The Chamber requested
the City’s assistance in securing a barge for use as a platform for staging the
production of the annual fireworks display. The city is eligible to obtain
equipment from federal surplus free of charge whereas the Chamber cannot. If
the city will procure the barge it will be reimbursed by the Committee for
costs incurred. Alderman Fisher stated that Charlie Perry has agreed to enter
into a use agreement with the city to provide storage, upkeep, insurance and
maintenance on the barge. The city will use the barge free of charge.
Board members questioned the length of time the City will need to maintain
ownership of the barge and liability to the City. Alderman Fisher asked that
all questions be given to the City Manager and he will present them to the
Chamber. He will also meet with the Director to proceed in drafting a letter to
Congressman McIntyre to procure the barge.
Board members discussed the liability to the City and requested the City
Manager and Attorney research this further before making a commitment to obtain
the barge in the city’s name.
SOUTHPORT BEAUTIFICATION COMMITTEE
As a result of only one application being received, the Board agreed to
advertise the vacancy on the Beautification Committee.
FIRE PREVENTION WEEK
Alderman Childs motioned to adopt a Resolution proclaiming October 9-15, 2005
as Fire Prevention Week in the City of Southport. Motion seconded by Alderman
Brown. Vote of approval was unanimous.
Resolution
Proclaiming October 9 - 15, 2005
Fire Prevention Week
WHEREAS, the Southport Fire Department is committed to ensuring the safety and
security of all those living in and visiting our Fire District; and
WHEREAS, fire is a serious public safety concern both locally and nationally,
and homes are the locations where people are at greatest risk of fire; and
WHEREAS, the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) has documented through
its research a significant increase in home candle fires, even as most other
causes of home fires have steadily declined; and
WHEREAS, the Firefighters of the Southport Fire Department are dedicated to
reducing the occurrence of residential and commercial structural fires and fire
related injuries through prevention and protection education; and
WHEREAS, the residents of the Southport Fire District are responsive to public
education measures and are able to take personal steps to increase their safety
from fire; and
WHEREAS, using proper care with candles will have a positive effect on the home
fire problem; and
WHEREAS, each candle fire that is prevented in the Southport Fire District is
an opportunity to prevent painful injury and costly property damage; and
WHEREAS, the 2005 Fire Prevention Week theme, “USE CANDLES WITH CARE: WHEN YOU
GO OUT, BLOW OUT!” effectively serves to remind us all of the simple actions we
can take to stay safer from fire everyday.
THEREFORE, I Norman R. Holden, Mayor of the City of Southport do hereby
proclaim October 9-15, 2005 as Fire Prevention Week through out this City, and
I urge all the citizens of Southport to heed the important safety messages from
the Southport Fire Prevention Team, and to support the many public safety
activities and efforts of the Southport Fire Department.
S/Norman R. Holden, 
Mayor
COUNTY’S CLEAN UP PROGRAM
Alderman Childs motioned to approve a request from Charles Drew, Code
Enforcement Officer, seconded by Alderman Fisher to authorize participation in
Brunswick County’s Cleanup Program to have a structure removed from 905 North
Lord Street. (Katherine B. Davis) Vote of approval was unanimous.
BUDGET AMENDMENT
Alderman Childs motioned to approve budget amendment #4, seconded by Alderman
Brown. Vote of approval was unanimous.
Budget Amendment #4
Fiscal Year 2005-2006
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session October 13, 2005, that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for reclassifying line items and funding Capital Outlay
Vehicles and Repair & Maintenance from revenues recovered from insurance claims
for the Police Department.
General Fund
                                 Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section I
Revenues Anticipated
   Local Revenue
      Insurance Recovery   8,279.32         909,740.32
Appropriated Expenditures
   Police Department                           775,579.32
      Repair Maintenance Ve(1,787.84)
      Capital Outlay/Vehicl(13,684.96)
      Capital Outlay/Vehicl15,000.00
      Capital Outlay/Equipm(15,000.00)
      Lease Payments       7,193.48
775,579.32
 
ADOPTED this the 13th day of October, 2005
S/Mayor Norman R. Holden
Attest:
S/ Regina W. Alexander-CMC
Clerk to the Board of Aldermen
RESOLUTION – APPLICANT AGENT (HURRICANE OPHELIA)
City Manager Gandy asked the Board to adopt a resolution designating an Agent
to handle all FEMA submittals related to Hurricane Ophelia.
Alderman Callari motioned to adopt a resolution designating Rob Gandy, City
Manager as primary agent and Patty Miller, secondary. Motion seconded by
Alderman Powell. Vote of approval was unanimous. (Resolution incorporated as
Attachment #1)
OTHER BUSINESS
Alderman Powell extended thanks to the City Manager, Public Works Director,
employees and volunteers who worked over the weekend to help alleviate the
flooding in the City that resulted from remnants of Hurricane Tammy. Thanks
were extended from all the Board. Alderman Powell stated if the Storm water
Ordinance had been in place 10 years ago, a large portion of the flooding would
have been eliminated. He communicated that the ordinance needs to be improved
and the City needs to look into having this done.
MARINA COMMITTEE
Alderman Childs reported that the Marina Committee continues to meet weekly.
Mayor Holden asked Mr. Dukes to submit his recommendations to Alderman Childs,
Chairperson of the City’s Marina Committee.
In answer to a question posed by Alderman Callari about the Warnette house on
the corner of Brown and Lord Street, City Manager Gandy reported staff has
contacted the owner about the condition of the property and she assured staff
that she is going to have the structure removed. City Manager Gandy stated he
will give her a time frame in which to remove the structure, and if not
removed, the City will enforce the minimum housing code procedures.
Alderman Callari asked Mr. Dukes if his committee could recommend suggestions
of how the city can control zoning that would apply to the marina but not
encroach on peoples private rights for their own property which is an issue
when trying to develop a blanket control for a marina.
Alderman Fisher expressed his appreciation to everyone for their thoughts,
cards and prayers during family illness.
Mayor Holden also expressed thanks to the Board, staff and citizens for
supporting Alderman Fisher and asked for continued thoughts for his family
because they do are dealing with illness in his immediate family.
ADJOURNMENT
No further business, Alderman Childs motioned seconded by Alderman Brown to
adjourn the meeting, Vote carried.
S/Norman R. Holden
Mayor
S/Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
OCTOBER 25, 2005
SPECIAL MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN SPECIAL MEETING
OCTOBER 25, 2005  6:30 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
MEMBERS PRESENT:   Norman R. Holden, Mayor
            James C. Brown, Meezie Childs, Stuart Callari,
            Nelson Adams and James Powell
STAFF PRESENT:      Rob Gandy, City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander, City Clerk
Mayor Holden called the Special Meeting to order at 6:30 p.m. and stated the
purpose of the Special Meeting/Public Hearing is to receive comments from the
public on proposed amendments to the Unified Development Ordinance on a Marina/
Marina District and Central Business District Mixed Use.
PUBLIC HEARING – MARINA/MARINA DISTRICT
Mayor Holden called for motion to enter Public Hearing.
Alderman Callari moved to go in Public Hearing to receive comments on the
proposed amendment to the UDO on Marina/Marina District, motion seconded by
Alderman Childs, vote carried.
There were no public comments.
Alderman Callari moved to re-enter regular session, seconded by Alderman
Childs, vote carried.
REGULAR SESSION
Alderman Fisher moved, seconded by Alderman Callari to approve an amendment to
the Unified Development Ordinance to establish a Marina/Marina District. The
vote of approval was unanimous.
Marina/Marina District
Marinas located on state property under NCGS 160A-392 or city-owned property
shall not allow single-family or multi-family residential usage.
The purpose of this note to the Table of Permitted Uses is to protect the
character of the commercial development of this area and to reserve an area
along the waters edge for maritime uses, water dependent uses, and water
oriented uses. This is consistent with Southport’s historical character as a
working waterfront community open for all the public to use. This note also
provides for certain other non-water dependent uses which are closely aligned
with water oriented uses. Land uses which would wall off or prevent the public
from access to public trust waters are specifically discouraged. Residential or
“dockominium” uses in this area are expressly forbidden.
This area is established to provide land for the use by all of Southport’s
citizens, visitors to the area by land or by water, and to support the city’s
tourist industry. Specifically, on city property or property regulated by NCGS
160A-392 the following shall be allowed:
Bait and tackle shops
Boat and other marine related offices
Boat docks - public and for marina lease only
Boat dry storage
Boat ramps and boat launching facilities (including public)
Boat repair facilities
Boat service areas
Boat safety and towing facilities
Boat storage and boat construction yards
Bulkheads and other shoreline stabilization
Commercial charter or sightseeing water craft facilities
Fishing piers and public boardwalks
Launderette, coin operated laundry for marina users, accessory to marina
operation
Marina
Marine related service and filling stations
Marine equipment stores
Mooring piles
Navigational markers
Parking areas - vehicle and boat trailers
Parks and public use areas
Public utility buildings
Public water access
Restaurant as an accessory use to marina operation
All setbacks must comply with CAMA and Corp of Engineers requirements.
Except for Dock master’s office, roofs, shelters, framing, or other similar
elevated structures are not permitted over dock areas. Temporary, removable
canopies are permitted to provide outdoor dining protection at restaurants.
PUBLIC HEARING – CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT (CBD)
Alderman Callari moved, seconded by Alderman Brown to enter Public Hearing to
receive comments from the public on a proposed amendment to the Central
Business District Mixed Use. The vote was unanimous.
(Please note that comments from citizens are as near verbatim as possible with
a few exceptions)
Ms. Stephanie Van Noordt of 903 E. Leonard Street, an alternate member of the
Planning Board, speaking as a concerned citizen asked the Board not to rush to
redefine the heart of the City referring to the Central Business District. She
presented the following:
(Please note statement is near verbatim as possible)
“Why would residential be permitted within a CBD?
Why is the presented change of the 1 to 1 ratio that is being presented for
mixed use in CBD, why is it not the same as a business owner living on the
site?
What is a hypothetical road map if residential is adopted in CBD?
First question asking myself about residential being permitted in a CBD, I see
certain circumstances that will warrant residential development and would
assume that by introducing this as a permitted use that there could potentially
be a larger problem with our CBD related to revitalization. If there were in
fact declining vitality in our downtown district, I think more than residential
inclusion would warrant discussion at this time. Other reasons that I can think
of for adding to the table of permitted uses are conveniences of travel between
work and home to an extensive CBD area, the lack of housing adjacent to the CDB
area, plus any other factors that I personally would not have insight into
because I am not a Planner. I find that any of these I brought up to be a
stretch to apply them to our downtown.
The second question...the argument presented for a 1 to 1 business residential.
I have heard that shop owners have had in the past the ability to live upstairs
of their businesses and this is something Southportians want to remain
available to business owners. I think that the presented text change, the
ordinance adaptation presented tonight does not address this directly. Although
it does assure that many redeveloped buildings will be torn down. It is simply
a relationship of uses, and by that; business use, residential use. There is a
true disconnect between those proportions because there is no ownership and
will not promote the business owners residing rights within the CBD, but will
continue a promotion of disconnect between the businesses and the residential
parking, and I fear that it could also lead to gated off parking lots for
residential owners in the CBD. I think a better approach is to maybe look at
the business unit with an accessory apartment under a single ownership where
occupancy is more than x number of days, so that occupant is truly living there
and that the parking space then is occupied by the same person. That business
owner and the resident are all under the same ownership. In fact, this is
already included within our ordinance. I think it is more on target towards
finding an avenue for residing and shop keeping in this town.
The third thing is I found myself asking at both of those meetings, why the
rush and push for this zoning change? It is evident and it’s been in the paper
that it clearly reflects the future sale of Mrs. Bette Leggett’s store. I have
to wonder if this is not a zoning issue but a developer issue. I know that we
have project types in town that have 3 commercial units with 3 residential
units above, but they are in multiple locations in Southport and I know that
this is an expanding trend and I have seen this on the beach. Could that then
become a road map for the CBD where residential apartments have the majority
over the business owners, and then it is not a CBD anymore. I would appeal to
the Board to keep the CBD the way that it is and to follow the accessory
apartment usage and see the ability of what Southport has had in the past and
would like very much to continue to have where the shop owner has that right to
live also in a downtown. I also think that articulate professionals are
available and can design for commercial use in the CBD. Thank you”
Ms. Susan Farley of 203 E. Brown Street presented petitions that were signed by
various shop owners in the City. She stated all of them want to see Mrs.
Leggett sell her store because empty businesses are not good for their
business. Their concerns basically follow Mrs. Van Noordt’s theory. They are
not necessarily opposed to mixed use. “I think mix use is wonderful and I think
shop owners living above their stores are wonderful and ideal. I live in one of
the current mix use buildings and the reality of it is all of the residential
is going to be sold before the commercial. As a business owner I am going to
look at that and I’m going to say that without parking provided for those
residents, that’s two cars that is going to sit in front of my store all day.
I’m not going to rent and I’m not going to buy a business in that kind of area.
Therefore I am going to end up with more empty businesses. Then if you end up
with all these cars parked out in front, they are all attached to residences.
You end up with your customer base shrinking. There’s no other way to look at
that. We have all seen what happened to downtown Wilmington. They put in
parking regulations, they did things in parking, and there are constantly
battles between the people that live above with below. The only things that can
survive in that type of area are bars and restaurants. Those are the only
things that have the margin that’s been able to support that and I don’t think
that we want to see downtown ’’Southport’ a row of bars and restaurants. So
those are our main concerns. Now I happen to live in a mixed use building and
we have parking, but I still have a problem. Every week I have people walk in
and say “Susie I drove by but you were full.”
They will come back, because they know I have parking, but I am not sure that
this will happen in the Central Business District and grant it, I am not in the
CBD and you might ask, why do I care, but if Southport starts to die and go on
the down swing, we are all going to be in the same boat, and there are a lot of
towns that are just condominiums but I don’t think that we want that, I don’t
think that’s what we are growing towards, and I don’t think that is what we
need. (Petitions are incorporated as an official part of these minutes)
Mr. Ed Boguskie of 502 West Brown Street read excerpts from the City’s 2001
Comprehensive Plan. “And the zoning regulations shall be made in accordance
with comprehensive plan designed to lessen congestion in the streets, and it
goes on to say that regulations shall be made with reasonable consideration
among other things as to the character of the district and its suitability for
particular uses.” Mr. Boguskie stated a change to the UDO is contrary to the
comprehensive plan. He explained that parking is going to be a problem for shop
owners who have condos above. He stated he was in attendance at the Board
meeting where Aldermen Adams and Fisher voted against Cades Cove because it was
said that “if 14th Street came all the way through to Howe, DOT would put
yellow markers up the same as they have done at the beach road and traffic then
would have to exit downtown towards the city.” He communicated what the Board
is considering will create the same problem that would have been created if
14th street had gone through. Mr. Boguskie stated that change comes about but
the Board needs to look at other towns that have done what Southport is
considering and look at the number of vacant shops. People come to Southport to
shop, need to look at what is being considered...density is the problem, need
to look long and hard at what is being proposed and he implored the Board not
to act hastily on this because the out come will affect the City in years to
come.
Mr. Bob Endres, owner of the Christmas House at 104 West Moore Street. Mr.
Endres expressed opposition to the proposed amendment. He referenced his busy
season and some of the busiest days in town and the number of people walking
one to two blocks to visit the business district. He proposed the property at
104 West Moore Street be considered for the same kind of project if this
amendment is passed. He stated it is his belief that the City will be setting a
precedent that is not healthy for the community or other properties. Mr. Endres
acknowledged that the 2 hour parking limit on West Moore Street has helped with
the parking situation but there is still parking problems on the west and east
side of town.
Mr. Harley Lemons of 6228 Navigator Way, asked the Board if parking will be
changed to a maximum of two hours from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. the same as West
Moore? Will parking meters be introduced in Southport? He questioned the Board
on how they plan to provide parking for citizens, visitors, business people and
tourists when potentially we could lose 15 to 25 parking spaces on Moore Street
in a block or business district? He asked the Board if they wanted to see
Southport experience what downtown Wilmington has by going to residential.
Today this is being addressed as one building; tomorrow it may be 5, 15 or 20
with two people, 2 cars. He asked the Board to think about the parking and
congestion because they are going against their own planning and suggested they
not accept the amendment.
Mr. Brian Hennessey of 105 East Moore Street and owner of the Southport Antique
Shop stated he has nothing against Mrs. Bette Leggett selling her property and
hopes that she will sell it without any complications. He stated he is against
mixed ownership, mixed buildings i.e. residential and commercial on Moore
Street. “You have to look at the facts whether you believe it or not, there are
no parking spaces down here any more. Without the concerted effort of people
like me and your own City Attorney, at any given moment you can walk behind
those buildings and see 15 to 20 cars that stay off the block so that we can
use it to make a living. If you permit this to happen, there won’t be any
business down there any more. This is the hub of Southport, this is where they
come, they shop, they eat and we send them out to the various other shops
throughout the district. This town is under attack, not only from the marina
right up to where we are right now; this is the heart of the town. The battle
has been won and besides, down by the ferry, out by Smithville Woods you can
see what’s going on. If you lose what’s down here, you lose your town. If you
lose your marina, if you lose the parking, I will be out of here in a flash. I
can’t make a living and a lot of people make their entire living by working in
these shops and doing their businesses. This is a serious matter. This is not
worrying about easements, you are dealing with people lives on this one, and
you had better give it some really serious thought. This is not right, we
should not be held captive to developers and real estate agents that go under
contract on contingencies that they can sway Planning Boards and Aldermen. This
is wrong and I adamantly oppose it. Thank you.”
Ms. Ann Endres, 104 West Moore Street, owner of Christmas House stated that she
is totally opposed to the change. “We have a real problem downtown with
parking. I also have customers that drive by because there is no parking place.
I am afraid if we build condos that will take even more parking away.” She
stated the Hadley’s property on West Moore is part commercial and last year
they applied to have it all zoned commercial and were denied because they could
not provide any off street parking. She asked if the amendment will allow
people who were previously denied because of off street parking to rezone their
property. She told the Board that this is setting a bad example and she opposes
the amendment.
There were no other comments from the public.
Alderman Childs moved to re-enter regular session, seconded by Alderman
Callari, vote carried.
Mayor asked the Board’s pleasure regarding the Central Business District Mixed
Use.
Alderman Childs moved to place this item on the regular meeting agenda for
November which will give the Board sufficient time to reflect on the
recommendations from the public. Motion seconded by Alderman Callari.
Discussion: Alderman Fisher stated he disagreed with the proposal from the
Planning Board, does not believe it will work and it needs to be revamped.
Mayor stated a motion was on the floor and called for the vote. The votes of
approval to place Central Business District Mixed Use on the November agenda
were 5 ayes, Alderman Childs, Callari, Adams, Powell and Brown. 1 no vote,
Alderman Fisher.
Alderman Fisher stated he can not go along with mixed use in the Central
Business District, although he is not against mixed use if it can work. He
communicated that the Parking Committee has worked on parking and the city
cannot afford to designate any downtown parking. The city does not have
designated parking for businesses nor people that live on Moore now. West Moore
Street has 2 hour parking and the Parking Committee is considering the same for
other areas downtown, but they were waiting on feedback to see if this 2 hour
limit helped alleviate some of the problems. They have received positive
feedback from the Chamber and Merchants Association. Alderman Fisher went on to
report that they are seeking any off street parking that they can find. They
are currently working on opening an alley off of Atlantic for parking.
Alderman Brown stated that he agrees with Alderman Fisher and does not believe
the City can have mixed use with designated parking. The City may want to
consider the 2 hour parking downtown the same as West Moore. He does not have a
problem with mixed use downtown if the same owner owns the entire building, but
no designated parking.
Alderman Adams stated that mixed use concerns him. He communicated that this is
not a Bette Leggett issue. He is not voting for or against her. He will vote
for the betterment of the City.
Alderman Callari dittoed that this is not a Leggett issue; this was an issue
before her property went up for sale. The Board has not rushed into this; it
has been discussed since 2000. The Board will continue to revisit this matter
until it is right for the citizens. She extended an invitation to Mr. Lemons
and others to attend the Parking Committee meetings to observe what they are
doing and proposing to alleviate downtown parking problems. Alderman Callari
shared with citizens what Board members learned from attending the 2005 League
of Municipalities meeting (Hickory) about small towns and revitalization
issues. One of the primary topics discussed was mixed use. She stated that the
Board is looking at this issue very seriously so that it will benefit everyone.
Mayor Holden asked Alderman Fisher if it was his desire to return the
recommendation to the Planning Board to include directives for them to follow.
Aldermen Childs and Callari stated the proposed amendment should be discussed
at the November meeting before returning it to the Planning Board.
Alderman Fisher stated his thoughts were if the Planning Board received the
amendment back with comments and suggestions from this meeting, they could
possibly find a solution to the problem. However, if the majority of the Board
wishes to make this a discussion item in November and does not have a concrete
proposal to come out of the meeting, he does not see progress. Alderman Childs
stated the Board will have some proposals to send back to the Planning Board
and communicated that she will discuss this matter further with Alderman
Fisher.
Mayor Holden stated downtown should be extended out Howe Street to the water
tank and downtown needs to be defined. Alderman Fisher stated the sidewalks
have been extended to the ABC Store and their intentions are to take it to the
city limits. The Parking Committee has discussed sidewalks being extended to
Wal-mart which will allow people to walk to the shops; this is the intent of
putting parking on Atlantic. They are seeking means to have an entrance and
exit in to the Atlantic/ Howe Street parking. They are working with the state
on this matter and a sign will be installed to say “off street parking.”. It
was reported that sidewalks have been installed on both the east and west side
of Howe Street.
STORM WATER PROPOSAL
Alderman Powell referenced the workshop that Ms. Jeanette Powell of AMEC
Environmental held on the City’s Storm water Ordinance. Some deficiencies in
the City’s Storm water Ordinance were referenced and should be upgraded. After
the workshop, AMEC Environmentalist Consultant was asked to put together a
proposal to address the areas of concerns so the City can avoid future
problems. He stated some of the areas in the ordinance overlap between the
city, state and federal government and Storm Water is one of the most important
ordinances for the city. The proposal totaled $37,308.
Alderman Adams voiced his support of the Storm water Ordinance and asked that
the new Planner be given the opportunity to review the document for his input
before considering to hire AMEC.
Alderman Powell motioned that the City hire AMEC Environmental to re-write the
City’s Storm water Ordinance at a cost of $37,308.
Alderman Adams again stated Storm water is important, as is traffic but if the
City did not contribute $5,000 to help with a traffic study, he does not want
to spend $37,308 until the Planner has time to review the City’s Ordinance and
make a recommendation.
Alderman Childs asked that the Planner be afforded the opportunity to review
the Ordinance before expending funds and requested the motion be amended to
reflect this.
AMENDMENT: Alderman Powell motioned to hire AMEC Environmental to re-write the
City’s Storm water Ordinance at a cost of $37,308 contingent upon the Planner
reviewing the document and make a recommendation at the December Board meeting.
Discussion: Alderman Fisher recommended the Planner seek grants to cover the
cost of the Storm Water Ordinance modifications. Alderman Powell amended the
motion to ask the Planner to investigate grants to cover the modifications to
the Storm Water Ordinance. Motion seconded by Alderman Callari. No further
discussion, the vote of approval was unanimous.
ADJOURNMENT
No further business, Alderman Childs moved for adjournment, seconded by
Alderman Brown, vote carried.
___________________________________
Norman R. Holden
Mayor
__________________________________
Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
NOVEMBER 10, 2005
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING
NOVEMBER 10, 2005 7:30 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
MEMBERS PRESENT:   Norman R. Holden, Mayor
            Aldermen Nelson E. Adams, Mary “Meezie” Childs,
            Paul Fisher, Mary “Stuart” Callari, James C. Brown
            and James F. Powell
MEMBERS ABSENT:   None
STAFF PRESENT:      Regina W. Alexander-CMC, City Clerk
            Michael Isenberg, City Attorney
            Robert Grant, Public Services Director
STAFF ABSENT:      Rob Gandy
The regular monthly meeting of the Southport Board of Aldermen was called to
order 7:30 p.m. by Mayor Norman Holden.
Alderman Brown delivered the invocation.
MINUTES
Alderman Callari motioned, seconded by Alderman Powell to approve the regular
meeting minutes of October 13, 2005 and special meeting minutes of October 25t
h. The vote of approval was unanimous.
CITIZEN MATTERS
(Non Agenda Items)
Mr. Bill Duke of 215 North Caswell Avenue requested Alderman Childs,
Chairperson of the Marina Committee to provide a monthly update on the progress
being made to effect zoning regulations on the marina as privately owned
property. He stated the Land Use Plan of 2001 provides a strong foundation for
control and use.
Mr. Ed Boguskie of 502 West Brown Street requested the Board send the CBD Mixed
Use back to the Planning Board in order for them to come up with the best use
for the Central Business District.
Mr. Bob Endres of 104 West Moore Street, owner of the Christmas House
reiterated his opposition to the Central Business District Mixed Use.
ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS
PUBLIC HEARINGS
Alderman Childs motioned to enter Public Hearing(s) on items #5 – 9, motion
seconded by Alderman Powell, vote carried.
Public Hearings
5)   To consider an amendment to the UDO as recommended by the Planning Board
which adds the statement “require in planned building groups and final
subdivision plats that construction must begin within one calendar year
following approval of the planned building group by the City of Southport
Planning Board, and approval of a final subdivision plat by the Board of
Aldermen. Failure to comply will result in recision of the approval.”
6)   To consider an amendment to the Unified Development Ordinance Article II,
Table of area, yard, density and height requirements as recommended by the
Planning Board. Amendment to building height to change from 40 feet to 35 feet
with the following note:
“The apex of the main roofline may extend above 35 feet as long as 2/3 of the
roof height falls below 35 feet.”
7)   To consider an amendment to the Unified Development Ordinance Article II,
Section 11-1: Notes to the table of area, yard, density and height
requirements, Note 3: Height restrictions and modifications as recommended by
the Planning Board. Add the following note: “An enclosed/heated cupola may
extend to a height of 40 feet provided that the square footage of the enclosed
cupola does not exceed 15 percent of the building’s footprint. There may be
more than one cupola per building, but the combined square footage of the
cupolas must not exceed 15 percent of the building’s footprint.”
8)   To consider an amendment to the Unified Development Ordinance Article 2,
Basic Definitions and Interpretations, Section 2-2: (2) Accessory Apartment.
Revise definition of accessory apartments as follows: A self-contained unit
within a new or existing structure for a single family as recommended by the
Planning Board.
9)   To consider a Conditional Use Permit for expansion of Kid’s World Learning
Center, 713 North Caswell Avenue for Jock and Anita Taylor. (CUP-05-0524-01)
Mr. John Reinsburrow of 998 Pete’s Camp Drive speaking in reference to public
hearing #5 asked that “construction” be defined.
No further discussion, Mayor Holden deferred consideration at the request of
Attorney Isenberg until further review by him and Bob Grant, Public Services
Director.
Public Hearing #6 – No comments from the public.
Public Hearing #7 – No comments from the public
Public Hearing #8 - No comments from the public.
Public Hearing #9 – Ms. Anne Carrera of 711 Caswell Avenue addressed the
Conditional Use Permit requested by Jock and Anita Taylor and addressed
concerns about trash removal, traffic control/traffic pattern and parking. Ms.
Carrera stated a dead end street has become a thru driveway. She stated she had
not been advised of this expansion request by the Day Care Center.
Mrs. Taylor, owner of Kid’s World Learning Center explained that the concerns
raised by Ms. Carrera are not related to her business. She stated there is no
trash issue with Kid’s World. The traffic cited is coming from Babies Learning
Center which is housed on the campus of Brunswick Community College. She
communicated that the parents removed the pilings that Ms. Carrera addressed
more than 5 years ago. Ms. Taylor explained in order to avoid conflict, she
asked the parents of her children to make a loop and turn around and back out.
She stated the issue with the trash can was resolved and explained the problems
addressed by Ms. Carrera are personal issues which has nothing to do with her
facility. The neighbors were notified of the proposed expansion, however she
did not go to Ms. Carrera because of their past history, but she was aware of
the proposed expansion due to her attendance at the Planning Board meeting in
May.
In response to a question by City Attorney Isenberg, Ms. Taylor stated they are
proposing to add 400 sq. feet to her facility and the total expansion will be
located on her property. She will lease adjacent property for parking.
Alderman Callari confirmed after a question from Mayor Holden that Brunswick
Community College owns the property which houses the Brunswick County Learning
Center. (Alderman Callari is a member of the Brunswick Community College Board
of Trustees)
Alderman Adams recommended the Board ask the college to grant the city a 60-90
feet right of way to continue Nash Street all the way through which would be an
asset to the City and help alleviate some of the traffic congestion.
No further comments, Alderman Childs motioned to go out of Public Hearing and
re-enter regular session, seconded by Alderman Callari, vote carried.
REGULAR SESSION
In regular session, Mayor Holden called for a vote on Item #5.
City Attorney Isenberg asked that the board defer consideration of this item
until further review by him and Mr. Grant because it appears there may be a
conflict in the UDO where it allows vested rights to last for 2 years for site
specific approval.
Alderman Callari motioned to defer action on the statement “require in planned
building groups and final subdivision plats that construction must begin within
one calendar year following approval of the planned building group by the
Planning Board, and approval of a final subdivision plat by the Board of
Aldermen until further consideration and review by the City Attorney. Motion
seconded by Alderman Childs, vote was unanimous.
Alderman Fisher asked that “construction” be clarified in the definition
section of the UDO. He talked with the building inspector about this and he was
told a building must be started. Alderman Brown and Callari agreed that
construction should be more than clearing a lot.
City Attorney Isenberg stated there are two different issues; planned building
groups refer to buildings and after a final subdivision plat is approved it may
refer to clearing roads and installing infrastructure. Alderman Fisher stated
the Planning Board has been asked to look into this and the surety bond that is
put up for subdivisions, which should be held until complete build out of a
project due to sewer and drainage problems.
Item # 6 – Alderman Fisher motioned to amend the Unified Development Ordinance
Article II, Table of area, yard, density and height requirements as recommended
by the Planning Board. Amendment to building height to change from 40 feet to
35 feet with the following note: “The apex of the main roofline may extend
above 35 feet as long as 2/3 of the roof height falls below 35 feet.” The
motion was seconded by Alderman Brown: Discussion: Alderman Adams referenced
previous discussion where the Board discussed height restrictions not allowing
any construction above 40 ft.
Ms. Susan Toth, member of the Planning Board stated the reason that this matter
was discussed by the Planning Board is because they are trying to maintain the
character of Southport with the variations of rooflines instead of structures
maxing out at 40 ft. The 35 feet height limits allow for structures such as
cupolas and widow walks which will allow variations to rooflines keeping in
with the character of Southport.
Mr. Adams stated his disagreement with the rationale because if a hotel/motel
wants to build in an outlying area, they should not be restricted to 40 feet.
Alderman Adams referenced height restrictions may work in various zoning
districts.
Alderman Callari stated a builder will max out at 35 ft. and if he does go 5 ft
higher it will be for ornamental purposes only.
Mayor Holden called for vote on the motion: Votes were 2 ayes, Aldermen Fisher
and Brown. 4 noes: Aldermen Adams, Childs, Callari and Powell.
Alderman Childs motioned, seconded by Alderman Adams to send back to the
Planning Board for review and recommendation mixed use in CBD and height limit
as a conditional use or possibly in certain zoning districts. The vote of
approval was unanimous.
Item #7 – Alderman Powell motioned, seconded by Alderman Callari to deny
approval of an amendment to the UDO Article II, Section II-1: Notes to the
table of area, yard, density and height requirements, Note 3. Height
restrictions and modifications as recommended by the Planning Board. Motion
seconded by Alderman Callari, the vote of approval was unanimous.
Item #8 – Alderman Fisher motioned, seconded by Alderman Callari to approve
amendment to the Unified Development Ordinance Article 2, Basic Definition and
Interpretations, Section 2-2: (2) Accessory Apartment to read “a self contained
unit within a new or existing structure for a single family.” The vote of
approval was unanimous.
Item #9 – Alderman Fisher motioned to approve a Conditional Use Permit for
expansion of Kid’s World Learning Center, 713 N. Caswell Avenue for Jock and
Anita Taylor pursuant to the applicant maintaining the legal right to use off
street parking. Motion seconded by Alderman Childs, vote carried.
Item #10 – In response to question from Alderman Childs, Attorney Isenberg
stated the UDO does list as a Conditional Use a residential unit contained
within the principal use within the business district. However, he could not
find a definition in the UDO for a residential unit and does not know how it
would be defined by the Planning Board.
Alderman Childs stated she believed that it was the Board’s intent to make
residential a permitted or a Conditional Use in the Central Business District
when it was developed.
Alderman Brown stated when the UDO was developed; he believed the intent of the
Board was to permit residential use in the CBD. He stated, five years ago he
owned a building downtown and residential use was allowed.
Alderman Childs stated the interpretation given to the Board stated residential
was not a permitted or conditional use in the UDO, however it was discovered
today that residential units are a conditional use in the UDO as listed on page
93 and she sees no reason to change it.
Alderman Adams suggested the Board not rush to action and clarify any
interpretations.
Attorney Isenberg stated it appears it may allow a business owner to have a
residence above their business, but not multiple residences.
Alderman Powell stated a conditional use will need to come before the Board for
a decision on each individual case.
Alderman Fisher recalled that conditional use was put in the UDO because it
already exists in the business district and it was discussed that if something
was demolished and an owner wanted to re-build it would be under a conditional
use. Parking was also a factor during the discussion.
The Board agreed that a more definitive definition of residential unit is
needed. After discussion, there was no formal action, but concurred to send
back to the Planning Board.
INTER-LOCAL AGREEMENT
Alderman Childs motioned, seconded by Alderman Callari to approve the
interlocal agreement between the City of Southport and Brunswick County to
allow their waste contractor to continue to collect the city’s residential
solid waste through June 30, 2011. The vote of approval was unanimous.
(Agreement Incorporated as Attachment #1)
DOSHER HOSPITAL PROPOSAL FOR LAND
The Board reviewed the proposal submitted by Dosher Hospital for trade of
property located between the west side of Howe Street and Lord Street for an
equal amount of city owned property located at the corner of Fodale Avenue and
Howe Street.
Alderman Fisher motioned, seconded by Alderman Callari to reject the proposal
and send back to Committee for renegotiation; and recommended the Board proceed
with the Phase II Environmental Assessment Study at a cost of $21,976. The vote
of approval was unanimous.
CONTIGUOUS VOLUNTARY ANNEXATION – Philippe Arroyas
Alderman Callari motioned, seconded by Alderman Powell to accept the contiguous
annexation petition filed pursuant to G.S. 160A-31 and authorized the City
Clerk to investigate same. Motion carried.
AMENDMENT TO ARTICLE V, SECTION 7 – PERSONNEL POLICY
Alderman Brown motioned to approve the amendment to Article V, Section 7 of the
City Personnel Policy regarding criminal history checks. Motion seconded by
Alderman Powell, vote carried.
AMEND ARTICLE V “RECRUITMENT AND EMPLOYMENT”, SECTION 7 “TESTING” TO READ AS
FOLLOWS:
CURRENT:
Section 7. Testing
All tests administered by the City or by the North Carolina Employment Security
Commission for the city will conform to all applicable legal regulations. All
tests administered by the City or by the North Carolina Employment Security
Commission for the city will comply with the EEO policy outlined in Article I,
Section 5. These examinations may consist of medical, drug, alcohol testing,
skills based, job knowledge and/or physical strength and agility tests. All
selection devices administered by the City or by persons or agencies for the
City shall be valid measures of bona fide occupational qualifications.
PROPOSED:
Section 7. Testing and background checks
Add paragraph to end of Section 7:
Persons seeking employment with the City may be required to submit to a
criminal background check which may include fingerprinting.
DUTCHMAN VILLAGE
Mayor Holden tabled a request from Mr. Scott Sullivan, J.S. South, LLC for
acceptance and dedication of sewer mains at Dutchman Village because all
information was not received for staff and board review.
CADES COVE – FINAL PLAT
Mr. Grant stated Planning Board recommends approval of the final plat upon
review of Phase I, Sections 1 & 2.
Mr. Gary Shipman, Attorney representing Blake Family Properties was in
attendance. In answer to question from Alderman Fisher, Attorney Shipman stated
they do not anticipate any changes on the other phases to differ from
preliminary plat that was approved.
Referenced letter in packet concerning left turn out only recommended by DOT
and will continue to work with DOT and City on this issue. (Referred to letter
in Board’s agenda packet)
Alderman Callari motioned to approve final plat for Phase I, Section 1 & 2 of
Cades Cove for Blake Family Property LLC. Alderman Brown seconded. The vote of
approval was unanimous. (Alderman Powell interjected that the City has
allocated sewer for 29 units)
NOISE ORDINANCE
Attorney Isenberg stated that the City’s Noise Ordinance is not applicable to
federal property.
RESOLUTION – VETERANS DAY
Alderman Fisher motioned to adopt the following resolution in honor of
Veteran’s Day.
Alderman Callari seconded the motion; the vote of approval was unanimous.
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, November 11, 2005 has been designated as Veteran’s Day to honor and
celebrate our veterans; and
WHEREAS, veterans deserve and merit our continued remembrance and appreciation
for the many sacrifices they have made for freedom and the American way of
life; and
WHEREAS, our community has a continuing sense of gratitude to those veterans
who have given so much in the defense of freedom which we continue to enjoy;
and
WHEREAS, the Southport Board of Aldermen on this the 10th day of November 2005,
urge all citizens to join us in the reaffirmation of our gratitude to the men
and women who have served so faithfully in defense of the U.S. States of
America.
ADOPTED this the 10th day of November 2005.
S/Norman R. Holden, Mayor
ATTEST:
S/Regina W. Alexander, Clerk
BONUSES (EMPLOYEES)
Alderman Fisher commended city employees on job performance and offered a
motion to give each permanent employee $100 bonus that is currently on payroll
effective November 10, 2005. Motion seconded by Alderman Brown, vote carried.
BUDGET AMENDMENTS
Alderman Fisher motioned to approve the following budget amendments recommended
by Patty Miller, Finance Officer. Motion seconded by Alderman Callari, vote
carried.
Budget Amendment #5
Fiscal Year 2005-2006
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session November 10, 2005, that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for funding Capital Outlay for Earnest Money to Cameron
Company, L.L.C for Land Purchase Contract.
Water & Sewer
                             Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section V
Revenues Anticipated
   Appropriated Fund Balan10,000           147,140
Appropriated Expenditures
   Operating & Maintenance
      Capital Outlay Sy10,000           2,037,540
 
ADOPTED this the 10th day of November, 2005
S/Mayor Norman R. Holden
Attest:
S/Regina W. Alexander
Clerk to the Board of Aldermen
Budget Amendment #6
Fiscal Year 2005-2006
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session November 10, 2005, that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for funding Capital Outlay for County, Hwy 211
Interconnect Project and Waterline Replacement Project
Water & Sewer
                              Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section V
Revenues Anticipated
   Appropriated Fund Balanc200,000          337,140
Appropriated Expenditures
   Operating & Maintenance
      County 211 Interco65,000
       Water Line Replac135,000          2,227,540
 
ADOPTED this the 10th day of November, 2005
S/Mayor Norman R. Holden
Attest:
S/Regina W. Alexander
Clerk to the Board of Aldermen
TAX RELEASE
Alderman Childs motioned to approve the following tax releases upon
recommendation of Mary Russ, Tax Collector. Motion seconded by Alderman Brown,
vote carried.
 
Bill Parcel # Name & Account Date     Amount    Value Released Reason for
                                                               Release
528           Bryan English  2005 tax $3,142.80 1,164,000      Double Listed
1110          Charles Kirby  2005 tax 30.83     11,420         Moved (Boat)
1136          Karl F. Kuhn   2005 tax 2.40      890            Moved (Boat)
1496          William Noble  2005 tax 54.95     20,350         Moved (Boat)
TOTALS                                $3,230.98
 
OTHER BUSINESS
Alderman Adams asked about the status of the roof repair on City Hall and the
Chief’s office.
Mr. Grant communicated that the work is progressing. Chief Dove stated the roof
is almost completed and the City received 3 bids for the work in his office
which will be submitted to the insurance company.
Alderman Adams referenced the condition in the Finance Department and asked
that the carpet be replaced as soon as possible.
Alderman Childs expressed appreciation to Mr. Duke for information provided and
stated the Planning Board has been asked to submit a report for a marina zoning
district by the December meeting. Information received from Mr. Duke will be
forwarded to Dale Holland. (Consultant for Land Use Plan Update)
Alderman Brown congratulated Mayor Holden, Aldermen Adams and Fisher on their
re-election.
Alderman Powell and the Board extended thanks to Mr. Grant for writing the
grant the City received in the amount of $1,680,000 for the spray field(s).
Alderman Callari stated they met with the Rescue Squad and Chief Redden wish to
make a report and asked for a date to meet with the Board. The Board agreed to
set a date in December.
Alderman Fisher asked that the fence around Smithville Burying Ground be
repaired, and
·   Asked the Board about their vision for the Lowe-White Park and Northwood
Cemetery and referenced a memo submitted in August 2005. He asked that this
matter be discussed during the Board’s 2006 retreat.
·   He motioned that a resolution be written in support of Progress Energy
building their new Nuclear Plant in Southport. Discussion: Alderman Adams
stated he wanted to give the public opportunity to voice their concerns,
Alderman Brown concurred. Mayor Holden asked that the motion be withdrawn and
placed on the December agenda.
·   Alderman Fisher asked that an invitation be extended to Boyd Williamson,
Tax Supervisor to attend the December board meeting to brief the Board on
projections for the 2007 re-evaluation.
·   It was reported that the City is getting ready to review the contract with
Brunswick Electric Membership Corporation and he has asked them to look into
the possibility of providing solar powered street lights.
·   Parking Committee recommended that the Planning Board provide an ordinance
on how to handle temporary portable signs by the January 2006 meeting.
·   Recommendation from the Planning Committee to the Chief of Police to direct
the Trolley Operator to find a new parking place other than the cedar bench
because it is obstructing traffic and a safety hazard.
·   Discussed were parking on Atlantic, re-doing the parking lot and walkway.
looking at additional parking on West Brown and installing sidewalks on the
south side.
·   Alderman Fisher motioned to request the City Attorney to investigate the
city’s access to the river and what happened to city’s right of way from Rhett
Street. Motion seconded by Alderman Adams, vote carried.
Mayor requested the City Manager or Public Works Director to contact a company
to request an air quality study of City Hall to determine whether or not it is
a safe environment for the employees.
ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned upon motion of
Alderman Childs, seconded by Alderman Brown, vote carried.
S/Norman R. Holden
Mayor
S/Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
DECEMBER 8, 2005
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
DECEMBER 8, 2005  7:30 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, NC
 
MEMBERS PRESENT:   Norman R. Holden, Mayor
            James Brown, Mayor Pro Tem
            Aldermen Nelson Adams, Meezie Childs, Stuart Callari,
            James Powell and Paul Fisher
MEMBERS ABSENT:   None
STAFF PRESENT:      Rob Gandy, City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander, City Clerk
            Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
            Bob Grant, Public Services Director
            David Emilita, Planning Director
            Patty Miller, Finance Director
            Mary Russ, Tax Collector
STAFF ABSENT:      None
The regularly monthly meeting of the Southport Board of Aldermen was called to
order at 7:30 p.m. by Mayor Norman Holden.
The invocation was given by Mayor Pro Tem Brown.
Mayor Holden recessed the meeting for the swearing in for Mayor-Elect and
Aldermen.
OATHS OF OFFICE: MAYOR-ELECT AND ALDERMEN
The Oath of Office was administered to Mayor-Elect Norman Holden by the City
Clerk. After having taken the oath of office, Mayor Holden was seated as Mayor.
The Clerk administered the oaths of office to Aldermen-Elect Nelson Adams,
James Brown and Paul Fisher. Having taken their seats as Aldermen, the meeting
was called back to order.
(Oath of Office incorporated as official part of minutes as Attachment #1)
APPOINTMENT OF MAYOR PRO TEMPORE’
Mayor Holden asked for nominations for the position of Mayor Pro Tempore’.
Aldermen Powell nominated James Brown as Mayor Pro Tempore’, no further
nominations, the floor was closed. Aldermen Powell then motioned to vote on
Alderman James Brown as Mayor Pro Tem, Alderman Childs seconded the motion and
the vote of approval was unanimous.
The oath of office was administered to Alderman James Brown by the City Clerk
as Mayor Pro Tempore. (Oath of Office Incorporated as an official part of
minutes, Attachment #2)
CITY ATTORNEY
Mayor Holden recommended Mike Isenberg be retained as City Attorney. Alderman
Childs motioned to accept the recommendation of Mayor Holden, seconded by
Alderman Callari. The vote of approval was unanimous.
MINUTES
Alderman Powell motioned, seconded by Alderman Callari to approve the regular
meeting from November 10, 2005. The vote of approval was unanimous.
CITIZEN MATTERS
(Non-Agenda)
No comments from the public.
ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS
PUBLIC HEARING – ZONING RECLASSIFICATION FOR 1214 NORTH ––ATLANTIC– AND 412
STUART AVENUES (AUGHENBAUGH)
Mayor Holden tabled the Public Hearing on the zoning reclassification at the
request of Attorney Jim Prevatte since all parties involved was out of the
country.
PUBLIC HEARING – ZONING RECLASSIFICATION – (DALE MCPHERSON)
Aldermen Childs motioned to enter Public Hearing on a zoning reclassification
request by Mr. Dale McPherson to rezone 1169, 1175, 1183 and 1191 East Leonard
Street from R-10 (residential) to LI (light industrial). Motion seconded by
Alderman Brown, vote carried.
No comments from the public.
Motion by Alderman Childs to re-enter regular session, seconded by Alderman
Callari, vote carried.
In regular session, Alderman Adams asked if adjoining property owners came to
the Planning Board. Susan Toth stated Mr. McPherson told the Planning Board
that he spoke with the property owners and they were okay with the rezoning.
Mr. McPherson told the Board he had signatures of adjoining property owners.
Alderman Fisher commented that the Planning Board approved the rezoning with a
50 ft. buffer and questioned how the city will insure that this is finite.
David Emilita, Planning Director stated Article 18 of the UDO requires a buffer
where industrial development abuts residential development and in this case it
does on the south side. Section 18-B only requires a minimum 10 ft buffer in
addition to the yard requirement which is less than 50 ft. This then becomes a
matter of being able to condition the zone change with a 50 ft buffer on any
side that abuts residential development, which is within the Board’s power to
effect this change which he would recommend. City Attorney Isenberg stated this
was discussed in the agenda meeting and the rezoning could not be made
conditional on this but the Board could rezone all of the property except for
50 ft.
Alderman Fisher asked about the status of the request to the Planning Board not
to change provisions of the warranty bond acceptance until complete build out
of the project in order to guarantee utilities. Mr. Grant stated that they are
looking into this but may encounter a problem with the state.
CODE ENFORCEMENT- COUNTY’S CLEAN UP PROGRAM
Alderman Fisher motioned to approve a request from the Code Enforcement Officer
to participate in the County’s clean up program to have a house at 619 North
Caswell Avenue removed. Motion seconded by Alderman Brown, vote carried.
PUBLIC MEETING – PROGRESS ENERGY
Upon motion of Alderman Fisher, seconded by Alderman Brown, the Board scheduled
a public meeting, January 12, 2006, 7:30 p.m. to give citizens the opportunity
to express their opinion(s) on the issue of Progress Energy’s consideration of
building an additional nuclear power plant/reactor somewhere in the Carolinas,
and one of the possibilities is the Brunswick Plant. The vote carried.
EXECUTIVE SESSION – 9:00 P.M.
Alderman Childs motioned to enter closed session in order to establish and
instruct the Board of Aldermen’s negotiating agents concerning the position to
be taken by the Board of Aldermen in negotiating the price and other material
terms of a proposed contract for the acquisition of the Southport Marina
property. The motion was seconded by Alderman Powell; the vote of approval was
unanimous.
Alderman Childs requested Robert Howard and Ed Warnette, member of the Marina
Committee sit in on the closed session.
CLOSED SESSION MINUTES
In closed session, Alderman Childs expounded on the activities of the Committee
and stated they have been very diligent in carrying out directives from the
Board. They talked with state representatives and met with government officials
and the Governor Representatives. The Committee was told to get a proposal
together, talk with Carl Stewart and get an appraisal. Robert Howard talked
with the Lessee and he told him that they are planning to put approximately $4
million into improvements at the marina and he want to extend the lease. Ms.
Childs stated they have talked with Carl Stewart a number of times and have
scheduled a meeting with him. The leasee is placing pressure on the Chairman to
extend the lease and they are requesting that it not be extended while the City
is in negotiation. The Committee believes the time has come that they need to
make a proposal and has drafted one. Copies of the proposal were submitted to
the Board for review. Alderman Childs stated the proposal is a negotiated
beginning.
Mr. Robert Howard thanked the Board for allowing him to work on the Marina
Committee which he deemed as a sensitive project. He believes if the marina
project was put to a vote, the citizens would pass it by an 80% margin. He
stated the Committee selected the $6 million dollar figure because it gets them
within range of the appraised value. The marina appraised value ranges from 5
to 9 million dollars. The proposal to pay $150,000 at the time of the transfer
and ask the state to finance the balance of the acquisition price. The
$4,500,000 grant from the State of North Carolina to the City allows the
legislature the opportunity to either consider a grant for the city outside of
the North Carolina State Ports Authority or inside of the N. C. State Ports.
2006
JANUARY 12, 2006
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
JANUARY 12, 2006  7:30 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, NC
 
MEMBERS PRESENT:   Norman R. Holden, Mayor
            Aldermen Nelson Adams, Meezie Childs, James Brown,
            James Powell, Stuart Callari and Paul Fisher
MEMBERS ABSENT:   None
STAFF PRESENT:      Rob Gandy, City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander- CMC, City Clerk
            Bob Grant, Public Services Director
            Patty Miller, Finance Officer
            David Emilita, Planning Director
STAFF ABSENT:      Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
The regular monthly meeting of the Southport Board of Aldermen was called to
order at 7:32 p.m. by Mayor Holden.
MINUTES
Alderman Powell motioned that the minutes be approved with one noted correction
on page 7 under other business, “they are negotiating with the Swains for
approximately 36 acres instead of 390.” Alderman Fisher seconded the motion,
and the vote of approval was unanimous.
CITIZEN MATTERS
(Non Agenda Items)
Mayor Holden clarified a statement made in a letter to the editor that he read
in the State Port Pilot. Mayor stated he does not have the authority as Mayor
to give the City of Southport away; and if he did, he would have given the
marina to the City of Southport.
The floor was opened for public comments. No citizens to address the Board.
PUBLIC MEETING
Mayor stated that Alderman Adams asked that a public meeting be held to give
citizens an opportunity to express their opinions on the issue of Progress
Energy’s consideration of building an additional nuclear power plant/reactor
possibly at the Brunswick Plant.
Mayor established a time limit of 3 minutes for each speaker.
Mr. Mike McCracken, employee of Progress Energy, Brunswick Plant stated that
Progress Energy is considering numerous sites in the Carolinas and Florida to
build a new reactor. The reason for building a large base load plant is the
need to provide electricity to a growing customer base. The company needs to be
able to provide large amounts of power 24 hours a day 7 days a week. He
communicated that Progress Energy added over 69,000 new customers between the
Carolinas and their Florida operation last year and the projection is an
increase of 600,000 in the next 10 years. Mr. McCracken told the Board since
the 1980’s they have grown by 1 million customers. He explained that nuclear
power has an advantage because it is clean and admit no emissions from burning
fossil fuels and is cost efficient and affordable. Progress Energy is using a
score card to decide where to build the power plant in which technical
consideration, customer concentration, businesses, cost, strategic factors,
environmental impact, socio-economic and community support will be used to
determine the location. The Nuclear Regulatory Commission has been informed
that Progress Energy plans to submit a combined construction operating license
as early as 2008, however they will need to announce a location soon as that is
part of the license process. Construction could begin as early as 2010 and on
line by 2016.
Ms. Nancy Harkey, Town of St. James expressed concerns about expanding the
nuclear power plant. She stated she does not understand the evacuation
procedure and asked what triggers the alarm. She stated that nuclear power is
an expensive technology and comes with risks i.e. disposal of spent fuel, the
attraction of terrorists, and referenced damage at Three Mile Island and
Chernobyl. She suggested other measures be explored i.e. windmills being a
technology, jet turbine, hydro-electric. She asked that alternatives be
examined before an expensive catastrophe takes place.
Mayor Holden recommended Ms. Harkey speak with Mayor Lesher about some of her
concerns because she is aware of evacuation procedures.
No further comments from the public, Alderman Callari motioned to close the
public meeting and re-enter regular session. Motion seconded by Alderman
Fisher, the vote carried.
Alderman Adams asked the question “what is the advantage of Southport adopting
a resolution of support?” Mayor stated it is his understanding after discussion
with the Plant Manager, the more support received from citizens and elected
officials, the company would be more inclined to locate in that area.
Mr. McCracken stated as a company they have looked at alternative energy
resources and have come to the conclusion that the only viable way to generate
large amounts of electricity safely and reliable with minimum impact on the
environment is with nuclear power. In answer to Alderman Adams question, Mr.
McCracken stated they will be bringing jobs to the area. They currently employ
1000 people and approximately two-thirds of the workforce is from Brunswick
County.
Alderman Adams asked if the City stands to gain ad valorem taxes, and whether
or not the city can annex the plant if constructed. Mr. McCracken stated their
community involvement, being a good corporate citizen and neighbors add value
to the City.
Alderman Adams asked if Progress Energy is seeking resolutions of support. Mr.
McCracken stated they are not, but there have been resolutions of support from
within the Carolinas and the County of Brunswick. He communicated that other
communities have expressed support to management because they are trying to
attract good clean industry that will provide high paying and reliable jobs. He
explained that production of electricity has to be a local endeavor because it
is a local industry.
Alderman Fisher, a Commissioner on the North Carolina Eastern Municipal Power
Agency (12 years) and recently elected Chairman of 32 cities stated this group
owns 20% of 5 generating plants that are a part of progress energy. Two of the
plants are the Brunswick Plants in which they own approximately 18-20%. The
nuclear plants are the most efficient and generate electricity much cheaper.
NCEMPA gets 50% of electricity from nuclear, 25% from coal, and 25% purchased
on the supplemental market. Alderman Fisher stated when it is purchased on the
market it is more expensive. He stated that nuclear power is the most efficient
and safest. Alderman Fisher then offered a motion that the City of Southport
adopt a resolution supporting the plant because of jobs, taxes and Progress
Energy being a good neighbor with residual benefits, and further request that
one of the plants be constructed at the Brunswick Plant. The motion died for
lack of a second.
Alderman Callari stated she is not against the resolution but believes each
person must make up their own mind and does not believe the city can speak for
everyone in the town.
PUBLIC HEARING – CONTIGUOUS ANNEXATION
Alderman Childs motioned to enter Public Hearing on the question of contiguous
annexation pursuant to G.S. 160A-31. (Arroyas property on Jabbertown Road)
Motion seconded by Alderman Brown, vote carried.
City Manager Gandy explained that Mr. Arroyas requested annexation to establish
a second ingress/egress into his subdivision known as the “Cottages at Prices’
Creek”. Alderman Brown motioned to adopt the ordinance approving the annexation
request, seconded by Alderman Childs; the vote of approval was unanimous.
AN ORDINANCE TO EXTEND THE CORPORATE LIMITS OF THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT, NORTH
CAROLINA
WHEREAS, the City of Southport has been petitioned under G.S. 160A-31 to annex
the area described below; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen has by resolution directed the City Clerk to
investigate the sufficiency of the petition; and
WHEREAS, the City Clerk has certified the sufficiency of the petition and a
public hearing on the question of this annexation was held at Southport City
Hall at 7:30 p.m. on January 12, 2006, after due notice by publication in the
State Port Pilot on December 21st and 28th, 2005, and;
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen finds that the petition meets the requirements
of G.S. 160A-31;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of Southport, North
Carolina that:
Section 1. By virtue of the authority granted by G.S. 160A-31, the following
described territory is hereby annexed and made part of the City of Southport
effective immediately
EXHIBIT A
From an existing MAG nail at the intersection of Jabbertown Road SR 1526 and
Leonard Street SR 1527 north 74 degrees 05 minutes 44 seconds west 1701.49 feet
to a point on the Northern right of way of Jabbertown Road SR 1526, said point
being the point of beginning. From the beginning point leaving said right of
way, North 07 degrees 05 minutes 26 seconds East 7.09 feet to a point, thence
North 87 degrees 33 minutes 24 west 100.11 feet to a point, said point being a
concrete monument, thence south 07 degrees 39 minutes 12 seconds West 150.60
feet to a point, said point being on the Northern right of way of Jabbertown
Road SR 1526, thence with said right of way South 86 degrees 30 minutes 19
seconds East 51.46 feet to a point, thence continuing with said right of way
South 81 degrees 19 minutes 24 seconds East 49.91 feet to the place and point
of beginning, containing a total of .35 acres more or less.
This being the same property as shown on a plat entitled “Area Annexed by the
City of Southport, NC on January 12, 2006” recorded in Map Cabinet __________
at Page ______ of the Brunswick County Registry.
Section 2. Upon and after January 12, 2006 the above described territory and
its citizens and property shall be subject to all debts, laws, ordinances and
regulations in force in the City of Southport and shall be entitled to the same
privileges and benefits as other parts of the City of Southport. Said territory
shall be subject to municipal taxes according to G.S. 160A-58.10.
Section 3.  The Mayor of the City of Southport shall cause to be recorded in
the office of the Register of Deeds of Brunswick County, and in the office of
the Secretary of State at Raleigh, North Carolina, an accurate map of the
annexed territory, described in Section 1 above, together with a duly certified
copy of this ordinance. Such a map shall also be delivered to the County Board
of Elections, as required by G. S. 163-288.1.
ADOPTED, this the 12th day of January 2006.
s/ Norman R. Holden
Mayor
ATTEST:
s/Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
FUEL ADJUSTMENT CHARGE
Alderman Fisher reported that cities and utilities throughout the southeast
have changed their pricing in fossil fuel and plant costs which has
significantly impacted the North Carolina Easter Municipal Power Agency for
2005. Other increases are projected in 2006. He explained the NCEMPA is seeing
an increase of $16 million above budget costs for 2005, and due to significant
increases in coal cost, natural gas and supplemental energy, and other
operating costs, the projected increase is $31 million for 2006. As stated
earlier, the electricity comes from 50% nuclear which is the cheapest, coal is
25% which doubles the cost of nuclear, and supplemental can triple or
quadruple. (Below is listed the Rate Adjustment Proposal as presented by
Committee) Alderman Fisher outlined the following rate adjustment proposal from
the Committee:
RATE ADJUSTMENT PROPOSAL
1.    Effective on Jan. 1, 2006 the City of Southport received an adjustment of
9.7% on the price of energy purchased from the North Carolina Eastern Municipal
Agency.
a.   A decrease in Southport’s electrical fund revenue of $398,904.00 per year
is projected due to this adjustment.
b.   An average monthly decrease in revenue of $33,242.00 will be seen unless
adjustments are changed.
c.   This adjustment is largely due to the significant increase in the cost of
natural gas and coal.
2.   We are working on ways to reduce our electrical cost such as:
a.   Automatic meter reading could increase the efficiency of our billing
process.
b.   A mechanism to collect back bills is now in place. Customers state income
tax refunds will be collected by the city for back bills.
c.   Further increase emphasis on Load Management program and customer revenue
collection.
d.   Repairing undersized feeders and trimming trees will decrease line loss.
e.   Educate customers on ways to reduce cost by conserving energy. Perform
energy audits to help customers find ways to save.
3.   The City of Southport’s electrical distribution system requires upgrades.
a.   Our substation reached 95% capacity this past summer. There are NEC
concerns that need to be rectified. Rebuilding this facility will cost in the
area of $1,000,000.00 dollars.
b.   Several feeders are undersized and need to be upgraded. Some of these
feeders are being put underground. $ 240,000.00 was budgeted for this project
for 05/06.
4.   The City of Southport absorbed 2% of the last rate adjustment and all of
the previous two adjustments. A proposed energy rider of 0.837 cent per KWH
will be needed to offset the increased energy purchased cost.
a.   This adjustment will produce $398,904.00 per year.
b.   Average household adjustment will be $11.73 dollars per month.
5. Recommended action that Board of Aldermen approves an Energy Cost Adjustment
of 0.837 cents per KWH.
Aldermen Fisher motioned to approve an energy cost adjustment of 0.837 cents
per kilowatt hour. The increase will equate to approximately $12.00 per month
for an average home. Motion seconded by Alderman Powell.  Discussion: Alderman
Adams requested the Board hold a workshop due to questions he needs answered.
He asked that the workshop be scheduled within the next week because he is not
prepared to vote on an increase without discussion. The votes were 3 ayes,
Aldermen Fisher, Callari and Powell, and 3 no votes, Aldermen Adams, Brown and
Childs. Due to a tie vote, Mayor Holden exercised his option and voted no.
Motion failed.
Aldermen Adams motioned to hold a special workshop 6:30 p.m. on January 18,
2006, seconded by Alderman Brown, vote carried.
APPOINTMENTS – PLANNING BOARD
Alderman Childs recommended a Committee be appointed to interview applicants
for the Planning Board due to several people applying. Aldermen Childs, Brown
and Powell volunteered to serve on the Committee.
Board members Callari, Brown and Mayor Holden expressed their gratitude to
citizens for interest shown in the Planning Board and encouraged their
continued support for all boards and committees.
Mayor Holden asked Alderman Childs to schedule the date(s) and inform the
applicants accordingly. Alderman Fisher suggested the Chairman of the Planning
Board and Director be included in the interview process.
RESOLUTION HONORING DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.
Alderman Childs motioned to adopt the following resolution honoring Dr. Martin
Luther King, Jr., and in support of the celebration scheduled January 15-16.
Motion seconded by Alderman Brown, vote unanimous.
RESOLUTION HONORING DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING JR. CELEBRATION
WHEREAS, the Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Celebration Committee was formed and
entrusted with the responsibility to plan a community wide celebration to
appropriately honor this great leader; and
WHEREAS, Dr. Martin Luther King Celebration Committee has selected the dates of
Sunday, January 15th and Monday, January 16, 2006 to hold this celebration with
events scheduled to include a march, youth programs and other similar events;
and
WHEREAS,  the Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Celebration has established a mission
statement in which its most important goal is to bring people of the community
together for the purpose of promoting good will and harmony for the betterment
of the entire community; and
WHEREAS, it is extremely important that the great works and deeds of Dr. Martin
Luther King, Jr. be duly remembered, honored and recognized in this most
fitting and proper way.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Mayor and Board of Aldermen of
Southport recognizes January 15-16, 2006 as the official dates of celebration
by the Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Celebration Committee for the purpose of
honoring this great man and encourage all citizens to participate in the
activities scheduled.
THIS 12th day of January 2006.
S/Norman R. Holden, Mayor
ATTEST:
S/Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
MOMS CLUB – FRANKLIN SQUARE PARK
Mayor Holden stated due to several questions about the proposal from the MOMS
Club to create a “Four Sisters” area in Franklin Square Park, he asked the City
Attorney to research the property since it was chartered in 1792 for a specific
purpose. He explained that the DMV office is located in this area and would
possibly have to be relocated. It was the general consensus to table this
matter until the Board meets in workshop to discuss it further.
FINAL PLAT – “THE COTTAGES AT PRICE’S CREEK”
Mr. Emilita, Planning Director stated that he reviewed the final plat with the
City Manager and Mr. Arroyas and all matters are being taken care of. City
Manager Gandy recommended approval contingent upon bond requirements being
satisfied. Alderman Fisher motioned to approve the final plat contingent upon
recommendation of the City Manager, the motion was seconded by Alderman Brown,
vote carried.  
Alderman Fisher recommended that final plats be completed before presentation
to the Board for approval.
STORM WATER ORDINANCE
Mayor Holden asked the City Manager with concurrence from the Board to request
the City Planner to draft a proposal on the Storm Water Discharge Control
Ordinance and present it to the Board as soon as possible. Alderman Powell
recommended a Committee work with the Planner on the Storm Water Ordinance
because some areas need to be addressed. He communicated that he met with the
Planner to discuss some concerns.
Mr. Emilita referenced the Board to Item 12 in the agenda packet which
described areas of the Storm Water Ordinance that needs improving. A workshop
among the staff will be needed before he actually drafts the wording and upon
completion, it will be submitted to the Board for review.
Mayor Holden asked Alderman Powell to Chair the Committee with City Planner
Emilita and Bob Grant, Public Utilities Director.
POLICE DEPARTMENT – TASER WEAPON
Chief Dove gave the Board a brief over view on the new weapon called a
conductive energy device/Taser which is one of the newest and safest advances
in law enforcement technology in subduing criminals and people who resist
arrest. He explained it been used in situations where deadly force was
authorized. The Wal-Mart Foundation awarded the Southport Police Department a
$1,000 grant to purchase equipment for officer safety. Chief Dove requested
Board approval to purchase 2 Tasers with funds from the Wal-Mart Foundation and
with funds left from their technology program.
Alderman Brown motioned to authorize Chief Dove to expend funds to purchase two
taser weapons and authorized the necessary training for the officers. The
motion was seconded by Alderman Callari, vote carried.
BUDGET AMENDMENTS
Alderman Brown motioned, seconded by Alderman Childs to approve budget
amendments #7-10. Vote carried.
Budget Amendment # 7
Fiscal Year 2005-2006
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session January 12, 2006, that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for funding lease purchase financing receipts from BB&T
for a 2006 Thomas Built Bus for the Parks & Recreation Department.
General Fund
                                Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section I
A.   Revenues Anticipated                     3,286,609.32
      Local Revenues
         Proceeds from 58,201e
B.   Appropriated Expenditures                3,286,609.32
      Parks & Recreation                   264,928.00
         Capital Outlay58,201le
 
ADOPTED this the 12th day of January 2006
S/Mayor Norman R. Holden
Attest
S/Regina W. Alexander, Clerk
Budget Amendment #8
Fiscal Year 2005-2006
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session January 12, 2006, that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for funding Equipment & Supplies from grant revenues
awarded to the Southport Rescue Squad from a the Department of Insurance EMS
Fund
General Fund
                                        Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section I
A.   Revenues Anticipated                             3,300,913.32
   State Shared Revenues/Grants/Refun7,152
   Fund Balance                      7,152            84,952.50
B.   Appropriated Expenditures                        3,300,913.32
   Rescue Squad.                                      130,377.00
      Fema Fire Grant Expenditures14,305
 
ADOPTED this the 12th day of January, 2006
S/Mayor Norman R. Holden
Attest:
S/Regina W. Alexander, Clerk
Budget Amendment #9
Fiscal Year 2005-2006
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session January 12, 2006, that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for funding repair and maintenance from revenues recovered
from insurance claim on damages to City Hall from Hurricane Ophelia.
General Fund
                               Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section I
A.   Revenues Anticipated
    Insurance Recovery      10,425.50        3,311,338.82
B.   Appropriated Expenditures               3,311,338.82
   Buildings & Grounds                       316,646.50
      R/M on Facilities  10,425.50
 
ADOPTED this the 12th day of January 2006
S/Mayor Norman R. Holden
Attest:
S/Regina W. Alexander, Clerk
Budget Amendment #10
Fiscal Year 2005-2006
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session January 12, 2006, that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for funding Equipment for the Police Department from
donations received from Wal-mart Foundation
General Fund
                               Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section I
A.   Revenues Anticipated
   Local Revenues
      Misc. Receipts/Poli1,000            3,312,338.82
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
   Police Department
      Equipment Purchase 1,000            776,579.32
 
ADOPTED this the 12th day of January 2006
S/Mayor Norman R. Holden
Attest
/Regina W. Alexander, Clerk
TAX RELEASES
Alderman Fisher motioned to approve the succeeding tax releases, seconded by
Alderman Callari. Vote carried.
Bill # Parcel Name & Account Date     Amount   Value Released Reason for
              #                       Released                Release
              Helston, Gary  1/1/06                           Boat located in
2577          D              2005 tax 35.91    13,300         Raleigh
              40142259
1114          Kirby, Carl W  1/1/06   4.08     1,511          Incorrect value
                             2005 tax                         on boat
1115          Kirby, Carl W  1/1/06   14.03    5,193          Incorrect value
              36918270       2005 tax                         on boat
2615          Oliver, Jason  1/1/06   2.20     4,520          Sold boat May
              30144003       2005 tax                         2004
              Sinclair,      1/1/06                           Sold boat June
2638          Edwin          2005 tax 40.50    15,000         2004
              99144002
              Teal, Fred T.  1/1/06                           Boat kept at
2649          Jr             2005 tax 289.49   107,217        St. James
              01460616                                        Marina
              Timeless       1/1/06                           Lives in
2653          Treasures      2005 tax 41.06    15,206         Boiling Spring
              50149540                                        lakes
 
 
Bill #Parcel Name & Account Date     Amount   Value Released Reason For
             #                       Released                Release
             Timeless       1/106                            Lives in
2653         Treasures      2005 tax 41.06    15,206         Boiling Spring
             50149540                                        Lakes
2654         Walker, Jay    1/1/06   21.69    8,032          Boat billed by
             50149829       205 tax                          Bald HeadIsland
2551         Duke, Bill     1/1/06   18.90    7,000          Boat billed
             30148151       2005 tax                         twice
             TOTAL                   477.86
 
2006 BOARD RETREAT
The Board scheduled their annual retreat for Saturday, February 11, 2006, 8:00
a.m. in the Dosher Hospital Board Room. (Old Hood Building)
OTHER BUSINESS
MARINA COMMITTEE
Alderman Childs reported that the Committee continues to pursue ownership of
the Marina and upon returning from Raleigh (Council of State) they met with the
City Manager and Planning Director to look at the Marina District. She motioned
to hold a Public Hearing February 9, 2006, 7:30 p.m. to discuss changes to the
district. Motion seconded by Alderman Callari, vote carried.
Alderman Childs communicated that the Committee extended the new lessees an
invitation to meet with the Aldermen and community. Mayor Holden suggested a
drop in session and to invite the public. Mayor Holden recommended that
citizens be bussed to the marina via the City Parks and Recreation bus to look
at the proposed plans by the new lessees.
COMMUNITY BUILDING
Alderman Fisher reported that the Committee is working to achieve the goals
assigned by the Board to make the Community Building more accessible and
affordable for all citizens. The Committee recommended a change from $45.00 per
hour for day rate, and $75.00 per hour for the night rate be changed to $100.00
for a four hour block. This amount covers only the expense for the Community
Building and will apply only to non-profit groups Sunday through Thursday. If
more hours are needed, it will cost $20.00 for each additional hour. Alderman
Fisher motioned to approve the new rate schedule. Discussion: Alderman Adams
stated it is his belief that $100 will still serve special interest groups.
Alderman Childs stated she appreciates the rate change and asked the
possibility of entertaining lowering the rates again for local groups, because
she wants it to be a Community Building and affordable for local citizens. The
motion was seconded by Alderman Callari. The votes were 5 ayes, Aldermen
Childs, Fisher, Brown, Callari and Powell. 1 no vote, Alderman Adams.
PARKING COMMITTEE
Alderman Fisher stated the Parking Committee will present a proposal for Board
consideration at the February Board meeting for a Parking Study to be performed
by a Parking Management Firm. The Committee met with a consultant and realizes
the parking in Southport is beyond their capability and comprehension.
NAVASSA MAYOR
Mayor Holden recognized Eulis Willis, Mayor of Navassa and welcomed him to
Southport.
STATE PORT – STATEMENT BY MAYOR
The following statement was read by Mayor Holden:
STATEMENT
“With the announcement of the newly planned international port, the
responsibilities of the Board of Aldermen have increased considerably. The
impact over time of this complex just a few miles from out town certainly makes
our planning, zoning and other activities even more important.
Ensuring the vitality of Southport while maintaining a balance between the
known and unknown during the build up stage of the port will be of immense
importance and we will need to protect the uniqueness, charm, friendliness of
our community and our way of life, which is even now changing daily.
I will be appointing a Committee of Aldermen and citizens to work with me to
address the issues that confront us as we move through this time in our lives.
Also I would like to recommend that the new port facilities take into
consideration, if in fact they build the port to utilize the Southport
electrical service. I would like the Board of Aldermen to work with me and take
the lead for the City of Southport and for Brunswick County from this point on.
Thank you.”
ADJOURNMENT
No further business, the meeting was adjourned upon motion of Alderman Childs,
seconded by Alderman Brown, vote carried.
S/Norman R. Holden, Mayor
S/Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
JANUARY 18, 2006
SPECIAL MEETING/WORKSHOP
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN SPECIAL MEETING/WORKSHOP
JANUARY 18, 2006  6:30 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
MEMBERS PRESENT:   Paul Fisher, Alderman
            Nelson Adams, Alderman
            Meezie Childs, (Present at 6:40 p.m.)
MEMBERS ABSENT:   Norman R. Holden, Mayor
            James Brown, Mayor Pro Tem
            James Powell, Alderman
            Stuart Callari, Alderman
STAFF PRESENT:      Rob Gandy, City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander, City Clerk
            Patty Miller, Finance Director
A special meeting notice was duly posted in accordance with NCGS 143-318.12 for
the purpose of discussing the proposed energy cost adjustment of 0.837 cents
per KWH. The rate adjustment increase is needed because on January 1, 2006, the
City of Southport received an adjustment increase of 9.7% on the price of
energy purchased from the N. C. Eastern Municipal Agency which is due because
of increased cost in natural gas and fuel. The city absorbed 2% of the last
rate increase and the previous two.
Aldermen Fisher, Adams and staff met at 6:30 p.m. in Council Chambers and due
to the lack of a quorum, the meeting was not held.
_________________________________
Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
FEBRUARY 9, 2006
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
FEBRUARY 9, 2006  7:30 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, NC
 
MEMBERS PRESENT:   Norman R. Holden, Mayor
            Aldermen Paul Fisher, Stuart Callari, James Powell,
            James Brown, Meezie Childs and Nelson Adams
MEMBERS ABSENT:   None
STAFF PRESENT:      Rob Gandy, City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander, CMC-City Clerk
            Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
            Bob Grant, Director of Public Services
            Patty Miller, Director of Finance
            David Emilita, Director of Planning
            Jerry Dove, Chief of Police
STAFF ABSENT:      None
ITEM 1.
CALL TO ORDER
Mayor Holden called the regular monthly meeting of the Southport Board of
Aldermen to order at 7:35 p.m.
ITEM 2.
INVOCATION 
Mayor Pro Tem Brown delivered the invocation.
ITEM 3.
MINUTES
The minutes of January 12, 2006 and Special Meeting Minutes of January 18th
were approved upon motion of Alderman Powell, seconded by Alderman Fisher. Vote
unanimous.
ITEM 4.
CITIZEN MATTERS (Non-Agenda)
No public comments from the floor.
ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS
ITEM 5.
PUBLIC HEARING
Alderman Childs motioned, seconded by Alderman Brown, to enter Public Hearing
for the purpose of considering a revision to the Unified Development Ordinance,
Article 10, Table of Permitted Uses. Revise first sentence under Note 18,
Marina/Marina District to read: “Single family, two-family or multiple family
dwellings are prohibited uses on marinas located either or state property under
NCGS 160A-392 or located on city owned property.” First paragraph, last two
sentences revised to read: Land Uses which would legally or physically prevent
the public from access to public trust waters are specifically prohibited.
Residential or “dockominium” use (the sale of boat slips) and floating homes in
this area is expressly prohibited.” Vote unanimous.
There were no public comments.
Motion by Alderman Callari to re-enter regular session, seconded by Alderman
Powell, the vote was unanimous.
Alderman Childs motioned to approve the revision to the Unified Development
Ordinance Article 10, Table of Permitted Uses, Marina/ Marina District seconded
by Alderman Brown, vote unanimous.
ITEM 6.
PUBLIC HEARING
Alderman Childs motioned to enter Public Hearing to consider a revision to the
Unified Development Ordinance, Article 16.3- Minimum Parking Requirements. Add
to alphabetical listing the following: “Marina, One (1) parking space for each
wet slip, once (1) parking space for every four (4) dry boat storage units,
twenty-five (25) 12’x 40’ spaces per boat ramp, plus parking required for other
uses.” Alderman Callari seconded the motion and the vote of approval was
unanimous.
There were no public comments.
Alderman Powell motioned, seconded by Alderman Fisher to re-enter regular
session. The vote was unanimous.
Alderman Childs motioned to approve the revision to the Unified Development
Ordinance, Article 16.3, Minimum Parking Requirements added to the alphabetical
listing (see above wording). Motion seconded by Alderman Callari, the vote of
approval was unanimous.
ITEM 7.
PUBLIC HEARING
Alderman Callari motioned, seconded by Alderman Powell to enter Public Hearing
to consider mandatory Unified Development Ordinance Amendments per requirements
of State Law 2005 (S.518), and Act to clarify and make technical changes to
City and County Planning Statutes and State Law 2005-426 (S.814) an act to
modernize and simplify City and County Planning and Land Use Management
Statutes, both enacted by the State in 2005. Vote was unanimous.
There were no public comments.
Motion to re-enter regular session by Alderman Callari, seconded by Alderman
Childs, vote carried.
Alderman Childs motioned to approve mandatory Unified Development Ordinance
amendments per requirements of State Law 2005-418 (S.518), an Act to clarify
and make technical changes to City and County Planning Statutes, and State Law
2005-426 (S.814), an Act to modernize and simplify City and County Planning and
Land Use Management Statutes, which were both enacted by the State in 2005.
Alderman Brown seconded, vote unanimous.
ITEM 8.
SOUTHPORT PARKING STUDY (Parking Committee)
Alderman Fisher stated that the Parking Committee has met for years to
determine ways to resolve some of the parking problems within the city, however
the problem is beyond their capabilities and the Committee recommends that the
Board hire a professional parking consultant at a cost of $2500 to develop a
Parking Study. (Steve Hernandez was present to answer questions) Since there
were no questions, Alderman Fisher motioned to hire Lanier Parking Systems to
perform the parking study for the City at a cost of $2500. Motion seconded by
Alderman Callari, vote of approval was unanimous.
ITEM 9.
ELECTRIC RATE ADJUSTMENT
Alderman Fisher stated the Board delayed an energy rider in January on the
electric bills which was passed onto the City from the power agency. The City
lost between $34,000-40,000 because the energy rider was not implemented.
Alderman Fisher stated after talking with Board members, it was determined that
a special meeting is not necessary because the city can not afford to lose
$398,000 this year on over charges and electricity. Alderman Fisher then
motioned to approve an energy cost adjustment of .0837 per kwh which will
equate to approximately $11.71 per month for the average customer effective
February. Motion seconded by Alderman Callari, the vote was unanimous.
ITEM. 10
EAST LEONARD STREET SANITARY SEWER LIFT STATION
Mr. Grant, Public Services Director stated that South Star Development Company
requested the City accept dedication of the East Leonard Street Sanitary Sewer
Lift Station for operation and maintenance. He stated the system has been in
operation for 5 months and monitored by staff. It currently serves Carillon
Assisted Care Development and will eventually serve the Cottages at Prices
Creek and Turtlewood Development. He recommended acceptance subject to a one
year warranty bond representing 10% of the original construction costs to cover
potential defects in workmanship and materials. Upon review and approval of the
bond, the deed will be recorded. (Bond will be in City’s hand by the week of
January 13)
Alderman Powell motioned to accept dedication of the wastewater system subject
to 10% warranty bond being submitted, motion seconded by Alderman Fisher, vote
was unanimous.
ITEM 11.
MIKE PETKAUSKOS – RIGHT OF WAY
The Board acknowledged a request by Mike Petkauskos to improve certain right of
way in the City. Mr. Emilita, Planning Director, stated during review of the
site plan by the Review Committee there were some concerns over emergency
access to the rear of the building. If the City alley way is opened, this would
provide emergency access to the rear of the building and adjacent properties.
Mr. Petkauskos agreed at his expense to open up the right of way from his
property to the city’s parking area to provide a secondary access. Board
approval will be needed to allow Mr. Petkauskos to remove obstructions from the
right of way during construction and a procedure in place that will allow other
owners to remove structures from the city’s right of way. (Note: Alley
referenced is between Atlantic Avenue and Howe behind Ocean Outfitters)
Mayor stated this will be beneficial to the City as well as Mr. Petkauskos
which will make the parking area accessible. Alderman Fisher stated the Parking
Committee has been working on opening up this alley for months which has been a
complicated process. He stated the survey is completed and recommended this
area be included in the parking study. Alderman Fisher moved that the area
referenced above be included in the parking study to be performed by Lanier
Parking Consultants Study. Motion seconded by Alderman Callari, vote was
unanimous.
Mr. Franks stated if alley is opened in one area, then others will be opened.
He stated he lives in this area and was not contacted concerning this proposal.
Mayor stated the City needs to eventually look at the alleys and make a
decision to possibly consider giving alleys to the adjoining property owners.
Alderman Adams stated he is against giving city alleys or city right of ways to
property owners. He stated t city property should remain city property.
ITEM 12.
BUDGET AMENDMENTS
Alderman Fisher motioned to approve budget amendments 11, 12 and 13, seconded
by Alderman Childs; the vote was unanimous.
Budget Amendment #11
Fiscal Year 2005-2006
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session February 9, 2006 that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for funding receipt of a donation given to the Forestry
Committee.
General Fund
                                      Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section I
A.   Revenues Anticipated                           3,314,339.82
      Local Revenue
         Forestry Committee D2,000on
B.   Appropriated Expenditures                      3,314,339.82
      Buildings & Grounds                        318,646.50
         Forestry Committee T2,000grm
 
ADOPTED this the 9th day of February, 2006
S/Mayor Norman R. Holden
Attest:
S/Regina W. Alexander
City Clerk
Budget Amendment #12
Fiscal Year 2005-2006
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session February 9, 2006 that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for reporting fiscal mid-year line item budget
reclassifications as listed below. There will be no change in the total General
Fund Budget.
General Fund
                               Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section I
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
      Board              0.00             183,497.00
      Administration     7000             423,406.00
      Buildings & Grounds12400            306,246.50
      City Garage        1000             175,583.00
      Police             700              775,879.32
      Fire               0.00             333,212.00
      Code Enforcement   0.00             225,195.00
      Rescue             (8000)           138,377.00
      Street             (7900)           204,590.00
      Solid Waste        (7000)           95,400.00
      Parks & Recreation 0.00             265,128.00
      Tourism            1800             179,326.00
            Total  0.00
 
ADOPTED this the 9th day of February, 2006
S/Mayor Norman R. Holden
Attest:
S/Regina W. Alexander
City Clerk
Budget Amendment #13
Fiscal Year 2005-2006
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session February 9, 2006 that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for reporting fiscal mid-year line item budget
reclassifications as listed below. There will be no change in the total
Electric Fund Budget.
 
Electric Fund
                               Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section IV
C.   Appropriated Expenditures
      Operations & Mainte0.00e            5,439,577.00
            Total  0.00
 
ADOPTED this the 9th day of February, 2006
S/Mayor Norman R. Holden
S/Regina W. Alexander
ITEM 13. TAX RELEASES
Alderman Fisher motioned to approve the following tax releases, seconded by
Alderman Childs, the vote was unanimous.
 
Bill/Parcel # Name & Account Date     Amount   Value Released Reason for
              #                       Released                Release
                                                              Boat value
                                                              included with
2535          CP&L           2005 Tax 12.82    4,624          Certification
                                                              to
                                                              Municipalities
              High, David                                     Boat not in
2579          Mack           2005 Tax 3.21     1,161          Southport
                                                              Marina
                                                              Lives at Bald
                                                              Head Island-
2591          Lawrence, Gary 2005 Tax 102.92   37,100         Boat taxes paid
                                                              to Bald Head
                                                              Island
                                                              Boat not at
2637          Shearer, James 2005     8.19     2,950          Southport
                                                              Marina per
                                                              Marina Manager
TOTAL                                 127.14
 
ITEM 14.
OTHER BUSINESS
City Manager Gandy stated one week ago, the City had a brown out due to a
problem with a transmission line coming in from Progress Energy. The city
terminated its sub-station so it would not cause major problems within the
city. He explained that this same situation occurred approximately four months
ago on the same day. The transmission line needs to be looked at and possibly
replaced. The city pays a lease facility charge on the line and sub-station to
Progress Energy which averages $9700 per month. He has been in communication
with representatives from Progress Energy and a meeting has been scheduled to
discuss improvements to the line.
MARINA COMMITTEE
Alderman Childs reported on the public meeting held with the new lease holders
and stated it was well received. The lessee provided a schematic of their
proposed plans to the city. (Schematic on file in City Manager’s office)
STORM WATER COMMITTEE
Alderman Powell communicated that the Storm Water Committee met and asked David
Emilita to brief the Board. Mr. Emilita stated as a result of the meeting and
review of the Storm Water Ordinance he will draft amendment language change to
the Storm Water Ordinance, which will be submitted to members of the Committee,
the Board of Aldermen and Planning Board. These changes will be presented at
the April Board meeting.
EMPLOYEE COMMENDATION
Alderman Fisher commended city employees Paul Clemmons, Woody McRoy, Ellie
Pittenger, Matthew Varnam, Paul Woodall, Sam Friday and Neil Williamson for an
outstanding job cleaning Smithville and Northwood Cemeteries, and the Salt
Marsh Board Walk and Waterway Overview. He motioned that a letter of
commendation be presented to each of them by the City Manager, motion seconded,
vote carried.
ITEM XVI.
ADJOURNMENT
No further business, the meeting was adjourned upon motion of Alderman Childs,
seconded by Alderman Brown, vote unanimous.
______________________________
S/Norman R. Holden
Mayor
__________________________
S/Regina W. Alexander-CMC
City Clerk
FEBRUARY 11, 2006
ANNUAL RETREAT
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN                          ANNUAL RETREAT
DOSHER HOSPITAL BOARD ROOM (Hood Building) 8:00 A.M.
FEBRUARY 11, 2006                          SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
The Board of Aldermen met in the Dosher Hospital Board (Hood Building) meeting
room on Saturday, February 11, 2006 at 8:00 a.m.
PRESENT:         Norman Holden, Mayor
            Aldermen Jim Powell, Jim Brown, Meezie Childs, Stuart Callari and
            Paul Fisher
ABSENT:         Nelson Adams, Alderman
STAFF:         Rob Gandy, Manager
            Regina Alexander, Clerk
            Bob Gant, Public Services Director
            David Emilita, Director of Planning
            Patty Miller Finance Director
            Jerry Dove, Police Chief
            Gregory Cumbee, Fire Chief
            Tammie Drew, Rescue Chief
            Randy Jones, Director of Tourism
            Heather Hemphill, Director of Parks and Recreation
OTHERS:         Terry Calhoun, State Port Pilot
            Chip Leavitt, BEMC
            Don Hughes, BEMC
            Other Representatives (2) from BEMC
            Carter Hubard, W. K. Dickson
Mayor Holden called the meeting to order.
1.
Presentation by Brunswick Electric Membership Corporation representatives on
description of basic and non-basic O&M contract, work plan, systems upgrade and
contract price proposal.
·   Mr. Chip Leavitt and Don Hughes presented a power point presentation on
Southport’s electrical system from the point of beginning when BEMC entered
into contract in 2001 to present.
·   Meters were discussed and Mr. Leavitt explained the types of meters i.e.
water and automated electrical meters which he stated works well with the scada
system. He stated electrical system meters are available now and it will be
2007 before water meters are available. Update on invoices and work order
procedures, some changes made and at present is working well for City and BEMC.
·   Solar street lighting at this point not promising due to cost. Will
continue to monitor this.
·   Decorative materials around pad mounted transformers. Need clearance for
access and signage visible, if shrubs are planted they tend to over grow and
cover the warning labels. Alderman Childs asked about fences. Will work on
this.
·   Future research on green power initiatives. Mr. Leavitt stated will work
with City on initiatives, some grants are available. City Manager stated staff
will continue to work with BEMC officials to develop a program for green power
initiatives.
·   Mr. Don Hughes stated Southport provides electricity to approximately 2400
customers. It is their goal to continue providing services to improve and
enhance Southport’s electrical system i.e. upgrades to automated meters,
underground service, experienced technical personnel, 24 hour call system,
scada system, GIS engineering staff for design and planning.
·    A new substation for Southport is needed because the current substation is
below standards and is hazardous. Estimated cost of a new-substation is $1.1
million. Mr. Hughes stated it is more cost effective to locate new sub-station
in same area because of the need to provide power while new sub-station is
being constructed. Mayor Holden asked Mr. Hughes if BEMC would be willing to
contribute monies towards a new sub station.
·   City Manager agreed with BEMC officials that the sub-station has almost
reached capacity and safety is a concern.
·   Board discussed underground utilities and assessing customers. Alderman
Fisher suggested installing underground in phases and calculate the number of
customers in each phase and assess accordingly. Mr. Hughes stated that once the
Board decides what phase and where they want to begin; they will calculate the
cost and proceed from that angle. They are presently working on a contract with
Time Warner Cable.
·   Mr. Leavitt discussed the company’s operation and maintenance contract. He
stated the company has sustained financial loss since 2001 and will propose a
rate increase in their new contract negotiations with the city.
2.
W. K. Dickson, Carter Hubard, Regional Waste Water System
Mr. Hubard in power point presentation outlined the company’s success in
working with the city on the waste water system. He presented a schematic
delineating ETJ line and the Southeast Brunswick Sanitary District boundary,
City’s treatment plant, new pump station for Phase I and the District Treatment
Plant. Schematic showed piping routes to get from Southport with the flow and
how pipes will be installed. Continuing to reduce the inflow and infiltration,
pursuing and obtaining funds for capital expenditures, completion of
transmission mains to district, completion of the Southeast Brunswick
expansion, completion of the transmission mains to the reuse site are projects
that will enable the decommissioning of the existing city wastewater treatment
plant. (The South Brunswick Sanitary District will be the treatment plant for
the city’s wastewater.) City Manager stated city is ahead of anticipated
schedule.
3.
Public Services Director-Bob Grant
Mr. Grant presented a twelve month overview of departmental work plans and
accomplishments: Grant from CWMTF in amount of $1,686,000 for acquisition of WW
Effluent Spray Field, Phase I Wastewater Enhancement Project underway which
allows 200 gallons of flow reversal to Southeast Brunswick Sanitary District
which is scheduled for completion by late spring, water line replacement on
Lord, Caswell, Brunswick, and portion of Nash Streets, which electrical
conduits where installed for future underground installations. Completion of
211 interconnect to county water main to enhance water pressure; continued
SCADA system refinement to allow for enhanced remote monitoring of utility
system from the utility office or wastewater plant which has been very
beneficial, installed variable frequency drives at COS WWTP, replaced and/or
installed valves for Water System to allow for improved isolation and fewer
water service interruptions, rehabilitation/pressure wash cleaning of salt
marsh walkway/gazebo, installed concrete median on South Lord Street between W.
Bay and W. Moore, rehabilitation of Franklin Park Gazebo and Well House Sites,
I & I repairs, River Drive, Stuart and Leonard, Harbor Oaks, resurfaced East
11th Street, paved Cottage Lane and resurfaced section of Owens Street,
rehabilitation and cleaning of tank interior, spartina planted at foreshore of
shoreline sill stabilization area at Kingsley Park, coordinated electric
facility upgrades in downtown area for July 4 festivities, underground electric
installed W. Bay, South and North Lord Streets and a portion of Nash, 900,000
lbs of debris remove from streets during hurricane Ophelia response and
recovery efforts, replacement of Indigo and River Drive lift station generators
and trimmings of electric system coordinated with BEMC. Mr. Grant outlined work
plan for fiscal year 2006/07. (Reference material on file in Clerk’s office)
Discussed wastewater package plants, standard manual for developers, electric
system upgrades, continuing underground installation, prioritizing and
replacing supplemental equipment, once the wastewater flow is reversed, the
City will need to look at paying for treatment, possibly sewer rate increases
incrementally. Alderman Brown recommended looking at this during budget
preparation. Alderman Fisher talked about a Capital Improvement Program being
in place to replace equipment. Mandatory hook-up for underground installation
was discussed in order for it to be effected properly. Alderman Brow agreed
that some form of assessment program may be needed in order to make it
affordable.
4.
Fire Department – Chief Greg Cumbee
Chief Cumbee gave the Board an overview of the Southport Fire Department i.e.
number of certified hours of training grant awards for fire prevention,
hydrants painted, meetings and exceeding ISO and OSHA standards. Update on
equipment status, (report given to each board member and on file in Clerk’s
office). Chief stated the Fire Department has the money to move ahead on land
purchase, they have outgrown the building which is inadequate. Goals are to
purchase land this year (2006), retain an architect, submit architectural plans
for new facility and begin construction by 2007. Estimated cost of facility is
$1.5 - $2 million. Many departments are transitioning to compensating
firefighters, and this will need to be looked at in the future. Thus far
retention of volunteers is good. Chief Cumbee stated as a result of growth, the
fire department is not in alignment because of inadequate facilities and the
continual need to upgrade equipment. During discussion, general consensus is
the facility is needed. Alderman Brown gave a brief synopsis of article read
about the growth and the impact to this area.
Mayor Holden stated the facility is needed and the need to move ahead with this
project. Alderman Fisher explained that the City has been negotiating with the
hospital for property, and part of the lot is essential to the fire department.
If the city takes out 150 ft sq for a new sub-station, offer the hospital the
remainder. If the hospital moves the building the negotiated cost was $150,000
but they may accept $75,000. The building was considered with the land
purchase. City had an environmental assessment performed before negotiations
continued. Board agreed the city needs to proceed with negotiations and
determine how much land will be left to offer the hospital. Mayor asked that
the City Manager get with BEMC to determine the exact amount of property needed
for a sub-station. Mayor asked Alderman Fisher to speak with officials of the
hospital to determine amount of land needed and re-negotiate. Board concurred
if exceptions need to be made for height restrictions; they are willing to do
so.
5.
Rescue Squad – Tammie Drew, Chief
Chief Drew reported on 2005 accomplishments: Squad answered 524 calls in 2005,
compensation, increased responses, received matching grant, started AED program
in all city owned building. Discussion on training staff to use AED, Chief Drew
will provide training on the AED for city employees, county funding increased
as a result of increased responses, billing program initiated, painted
building, replaced carpet, updated training records to be in compliance with
County Emergency Services and the State, enacted new policies and procedures to
protect the squad and the City from liability. 2006 goals are to increase
membership, recruitment program, rescue technical training, MR& EMT classes,
incentive for volunteers. Water Rescue: Squad has no need for boat and truck,
will work with county and coast guard for water rescue. Board unanimously
agreed to decommission the water rescue operation and transfer ownership of the
truck that was used to tow the Boat to the Police Department. Chief stated the
need for washer and dryer to wash contaminated uniforms. This will bring them
in compliance with OSHA regulations. Heating unit inoperable, City Manager
asked Chief to seek bids for new unit.
Board recommended line of communication be opened up to bring in volunteers
from St. James. Mayor stated if need be he will present a letter to Mayor
Lesher.
6.
Police Department – Chief, J. V. Dove
Chief Dove outlined Police Department’s goals and accomplishments:
Extended hours of operation 7 days a week from 8:30 a.m. to 12 midnight.,
Detective/Investigative position reinstated, Chaplaincy Victim Advocate program
incorporated as a part of Southport Safe Neighborhoods Program, computer
technology resources improved, 2 new radars, new shotguns given to the Police
Department by Progress Energy, grant received to purchase 2 tasers, grant
received to purchase ballistic vests, Lt. Laughren the In Service Training
Coordinator, fleet of vehicles upgrade by the purchase of 4 at a reduced cost,
3 officers have advanced certification and 2 currently have 4 year degrees, one
has a 2 year degree. 2006 goals are to seek funding from private sector for
Police K-9, develop new policy and procedure manual, field training officer,
expand department by 2 additional officers.
7.
Parks and Recreation – Heather Hemphill
Ms. Hemphill reported on departmental activities i.e. A total of 3700
participants in all programs. Thanked Board for new activity bus which they
picked up on December 9. General consensus of the Board is to sell the old bus.
Major development anticipated is the Lowe-White Park. Based on survey, tennis
courts and playground area was preference to include a bike ramp. Alderman
Fisher stated he would like to see an Architect hired to develop a plan for the
Lowe White Park with all the ideas incorporated. Ms. Hemphill reported that
Land Management surveyed the wetlands and .7 acres of the 11 acres is actually
developed. City Manager asked Ms. Hemphill to contact a surveyor to get an
updated property survey of the Lowe-White Park. Board agreed that the entire
area be cleaned up and the dump area be moved.
Alderman Fisher informed the Board the last conversation with Mr. Hyson is the
ball fields will remain intact for this summer and after this summer; the city
will be out of Stevens Park. Three new ball fields will be built, an Olympic
size swimming pool and a new club house as proposed by Mr. Hyson. The City has
not received this proposal yet.
City Manager and Ms. Hemphill explained that the stage at Caviness Park is in
bad shape and a hazard, and needs to be replaced. City Manager recommended a
new stage be constructed. Alderman Fisher recommended a portable stage be used
where needed.
Ms. Hemphill asked for part time help to help maintain the parks. (March-
September) City Manager authorized Ms. Hemphill to advertise for the part time
position in March. Board concurred.
Goals: Obtain Stevens Park, Lowe-White Park, air conditioning in gym, replacing
sinks in gym, recreation center, pave driveway at Jaycee Building, develop 5
year master plan for upgrading city parks, out door fitness trail (Lowe White
Park) bike paths to connect through city, employee wellness program.
Mayor recommended Manager contact Supervisor of Elections since they use the
building as a polling place and may provide funds to pave it.
City Manager authorized director to proceed with replacing the sinks in the
gym.
8.
Tourism Department – Randy Jones
Randy Jones, Director or Tourism briefed the Board on 2005-2006 highlights and
planned activities.
Mr. Jones stated the Southport Community Center’s and Visitor’s Center budget
will be separated into two line items to better track use of resources and
expenses.
Visitor Center highlights: Installed donated display cases provided by Ms.
Bette Leggett, installed new toilets in restrooms, relocated sign and repaired
floor at rear entrance to facility.
Southport Community Building: Alderman Fisher stated he has been working the
with the Director about establishing a maintenance program where businesses or
organizations contribute a designated amount of money annually to be placed in
a Capital Fund (guaranteed) for a number of years and they will be allowed to
use the facilities 2 to 3 times a year.
Alderman Childs stated as a result of the fee schedule being changed, it has
enabled some groups to use the facilities and others have returned. The
Community Building Committee again met with the Director and discussed reducing
the set up fee for local non-profit groups during the months of January,
February and March to $75/per hour to allow local non-profit groups to use the
facilities on weekends. (Fee schedule for weekdays is $100 for 4 hours and
$20.00 for each additional hour).
Alderman Childs motioned, seconded by Alderman Brown to charge $75.00 per hour
on weekends for use of the Community Building for local non-profit
organizations during the months of January, February and March effective
immediately. The vote of approval was unanimous. (Board decided local non-
profit organizations to include Brunswick County)
Mr. Jones asked about reservations already made and the Board agreed that only
reservations made after February 11, 2006 be refunded.
Alderman Fisher stated in reducing the rate that this may impact the budget and
noted that the Committee discussed the reduction in the accommodations tax.
Board discussed accommodations tax and assessing for weekly and monthly rentals
and how to collect. Alderman Brown recommended going to the Association
President and they should know which houses are rentals.
Mayor stated the City may need to revitalize an Economic Development Committee
and solicit hotels/hotels chains to locate in Southport.
Windows changed; floors replaced in conference room, kitchen and hallways, and
cleaned other wood floors and interior painting. Landscape changes to exterior
of the Community Building between the facility and the observation deck.
9.
Finance Department – Patty Miller
Ms. Miller presented goals and accomplishments for the year which included
customer handbook, debt setoff, outage magnets and phone messages, scheduling
of work orders and customer payments for new construction and upgrades, closed
outstanding checking accounts on housing grants, cash investment portfolio,
RFP’s on banking, phone service, etc., website updating, wellness committee,
upgrading and training.
10.
Planning Department – David Emilita
Mr. Emilita discussed the consolidation of planning, zoning, building
inspections and the need for consolidation but should be located in one general
area. Unified Development Ordinances needs to be codified into the City Code;
City’s Thoroughfare Plan needs to be amended to conduct feasibility study to
connect Ferry Road from Highway 211 to Highway 87. Mayor stated that DOT is
aware of this.
11.
Administration – Rob Gandy
City Manager informed the Board that the Garden Club wants to donate a swing to
the City. Board agreed that the swing be placed in Keziah Park.
Mr. Gandy referenced the standing water on Fodale Avenue and the problem that
the Seller’s is having; there is no outlet for the water. City continues to
work with them. Alderman Fisher recommended contacting the State for
assistance.
12.
Aldermen
Alderman Fisher referenced communication from Karen Sphar, Director of the
Chamber of Commerce concerning a barge for the 4th of July. He stated the City
will need to secure the barge and if leased out, the Chamber will be
responsible. The Board agreed that the City will secure the barge as long as it
is not liable and requested Alderman Fisher negotiate this matter.
Adjournment
Mayor announced the Retreat closed at 4:55 p.m,
___________________________
S/ Norman R. Holden, Mayor
___________________________
S/Regina W. Alexander, Clerk
Retreat Minutes
 
Board of Aldermen
Retreat Minutes   February 11, 2006
 
Chief Cumbee reviewed with the Board the condition of the equipment and fire
trucks. Bids will be submitted to replace the 1973 model which will be placed
in reserve.
Mayor Holden referenced the 1964 pumper truck and stated the possibility of
donating it for a tax write off. Chief stated with the condition of the truck,
he does not believe they can sell it. Alderman Childs referenced the fire truck
in town that belongs to an individual that is being driven around. Chief Cumbee
stated it is wrong for individuals to purchase fire trucks and joy ride around
town drinking. He stated every time this happens, he receive telephone calls
from people accusing the Southport Fire of this. The truck looks identical to
the Fire Departments with red lights. He stated he cannot say that it is
illegal, but does not believe that this should be allowed. The Board concurred
with Chief Cumbee. Chief stated he does not believe too many individuals would
want to buy the truck and spend the money to keep it up. They can not find
parts for the truck nor afford them. Mayor asked if any other departments would
be interested in acquiring the truck, perhaps some in the State of Florida.
Chief stated in the past, trucks have been sent to South America. He asked
representatives from E-1 if they knew of a department that would be interested
in the truck to let him know.
MARCH 9, 2006
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
MARCH 9, 2006     7:30 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, N. C.
 
MEMBERS PRESENT:   Norman R. Holden, Mayor
            Aldermen Paul Fisher, James Powell, Mary “Stuart”
            Callari, Nelson Adams, James Brown, and Mary “Meezie” Childs
MEMBERS ABSENT:   None
STAFF PRESENT:      Rob Gandy, City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander, City Clerk
            David Emilita, Director of Planning
            Jerry Dove, Chief of Police
ITEM 1.
CALL TO ORDER
Mayor Holden called the regular monthly meeting of the Southport Board of
Aldermen to order at 7:35 p.m.
ITEM 2.
INVOCATION
Mayor Pro Tem Brown delivered the invocation.
ITEM 3.
MINUTES
Alderman Powell moved that the regular meeting minutes of February 9, 2006 be
approved as presented, seconded by Alderman Callari. Vote of approval was
unanimous.
Item 4.
CITIZEN MATTERS (Petitions from the floor)
Pop Wolfe presented the following questions:
·   “Why is Pop Wolfe considered so unfriendly” and stated that all wolves have
trouble behaving. He referenced three famous law cases on record in the U.S.
World court namely Little Red Riding Hood, Three Little Pigs and Little Peter
Precocious and the Wolf Case. They are doing their best to confirm and live
down their reputations against terrible odds.
·   Why are most Southport Aldermen unfriendly? “Apparently Paul Fisher and
Norman Holden are the only friends he has on the Board until Election Day.” He
asked for a response.
Mayor Holden thanked Pop Wolfe for his comments.
Mr. Cecil Frank of 503 North Atlantic Avenue presented a petition pertaining to
the alley way that runs from Brown Street to Leonard Street and located between
Howe Street and Atlantic Avenue. (Petition incorporated and made an official
part of this record – Attachment #1)
ITEM. 5
Presentation by the Associated Artists of Southport of old window from the
Franklin Square Art Galley to the City and update on the gallery elevator
installation project.
Ms. Joyce Grazetti and Patt Carney were present on behalf of the Associated
Artist of Southport. Ms. Grazetti informed the Board of a grant received from
the N. C. Arts Council and presented preliminary plans for an elevator to be
installed in the Franklin Square Art Gallery. This will make the facility
accessible for all citizens. (Architect is Stephanie Van Noordt) General cost
of elevator is $35,000 and other costs includes shaft, total cost estimated is
$80,000.
In related business, one of the old windows removed from the Art Gallery was
painted and donated to the City as a piece of city history and a thank you for
the support.
ITEM 6.
Resolution supporting continued maintenance of the Atlantic Intracoastal
Waterway, shallow draft inlets and inlet crossings by the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers.
Alderman Fisher moved to approve the resolution, seconded by Alderman Brown,
and the vote of approval was unanimous.
RESOLUTION SUPPORTING CONTINUED MAINTENANCE OF THE ATLANTIC INTRACOASTAL
WATERWAY, SHALLOW DRAFT INLETS AND INLET CROSSINGS BY THE U.S. ARMY CORPS OF
ENGINEERS
WHEREAS,  the US Army Corps of Engineers has historically maintained the
Atlantic Intracoastal Waterway, 5 shallow-draft inlets and 8 inlet crossings in
North Carolina at an adequate depth for commercial and recreational navigation
purposes; and
WHEREAS, the continued maintenance of these navigable waterways is essential to
the State of North Carolina’s commercial barge traffic, commercial fishing
industry, tourism industry, and quality of life of its residents, property
owners, and visitors; and
WHEREAS,  the approved Federal budget for FY 05-06 does not include sufficient
funding to maintain these crucial waterways at an adequate depth, with only
minimal funding made available that will not realistically begin to meet the
needs that exist; and
WHEREAS, continued neglect of these waterways will only result in further
shoaling and reduced navigability, thereby negatively impacting the companies
that rely on the Atlantic Intracoastal Waterway for cost-effective
transportation of goods and materials, the many commercial fishermen who depend
on the navigability of these waterways to reach the open ocean, the thousands
of recreational boaters who contribute to the State’s vibrant tourism economy,
and local residents whose quality of life is greatly enhanced by the
navigability of these waterways; and
WHEREAS, the continue maintenance of these navigable waterways is essential for
protecting the safety of commercial and recreational boaters, and also enables
the US Coast Guard to continue to fulfill its mission of patrolling America’s
coasts, enforcing safe boating regulations, and performing emergency rescue
operations.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the City of Southport Board of Aldermen
urges the President and the United States Congress to recognize the immense
economic, safety, and quality of life benefits associated with maintenance of
these waterways, and urges them to appropriate sufficient funds in the FY 06-07
Federal budget and beyond to continue maintenance of the Atlantic Intracoastal
Waterway, shallow-draft inlets and inlet crossings by the US Army Corps of
Engineers.
Duly adopted this the 9th Day of March, 2006.
S/Norman R. Holden
Mayor
Attest:
S/Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
ITEM 7.
Resolution extending the current contract between the City of Southport and
Brunswick Electric Membership Cooperative to coincide with the start of the
fiscal year including the increased contract fee for May and June 2006.
Alderman Fisher moved seconded by Alderman Callari to approve the resolution
extending the current contract with Brunswick Electric Membership Cooperative
including the increased contract fee for May and June 2006. The vote of
approval was unanimous
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the City of Southport entered into a five year contract with Brunswick
Electric Membership Corporation for operation and maintenance of the city’s
electrical system on April 19, 2001; and
WHEREAS, the City of Southport is currently in the process of renegotiating
this contract for another five year term; and
WHEREAS, it is the desire of the City of Southport to have the inception date
of the new contract coincide with the start of our new fiscal year July 1,
2006; and
WHEREAS, in order to do so, it is necessary to extend the current contract
through June 30, 2006, which has been agreed upon by Brunswick Electric
Membership Cooperative.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport
that the current contract with Brunswick Electric Membership Cooperative be
extended through June 30, 2006 under the terms and conditions currently
existing except that the monthly fee payable to Brunswick Electric Membership
Cooperative shall be increased to $23,335.50 for the months of May and June,
2006.
DULY RESOLVED THIS THE 9th DAY OF MARCH, 2006.
S/Norman R. Holden
Mayor
ATTEST:
S/Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
ITEM 8.
Resolution authorizing the disposition of certain personal property by private
sale
Alderman Adams moved to approve the resolution authorizing the disposition of
certain personal property by private sale which was seconded by Alderman
Childs. Vote of approval was unanimous.
RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE DISPOSITON OF CERTAIN PERSONAL PROPERTY BY PRIVATE
SALE
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport desires to dispose of
certain surplus property of the City of Southport; and
WHEREAS, said personal property is valued at less than $30,000 for any one item
or group of similar items; and
WHEREAS, the Board is assembled in a regular council meeting;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that:
1.   The following described property is hereby declared to be surplus to needs
of the City:
         DESCRIPTION         VIN#
         1983 Ford Ranger         1FTBR10CXDUC56210
         1991 Chevy S-10         1GCCS14E2M8146362
         1990 Ford Taurus         1FACP52U1LA160561
         1988 Ford F-150         1FTEF15Y7JNA42453
         1986 Ford Bus            1FDWJ74N4GVA24560
         1975 Dodge W-300         W31BE5S155079
   Package   1995 Kelva Sea Cat         XLA10183A595
         2003 Magic Tilt Boat Trailer      1M5BS212031E89000
         (2) 1996 Twin 90 HP Outboard Motors
2.   The City Manager is authorized to dispose of the described property by
Private sale at a negotiated price pursuant to G.S. 160A-267
3.   The City Clerk shall publish notice summarizing this Resolution in
accordance with G.S. 160A-267.
4.   No sale may be consummated earlier than 10 days from the date of
publication.
Adopted this 9th day of March, 2006.
S/Norman R. Holden, Mayor
Attest:
S/Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City clerk
ITEM 9.
Planning Board Appointments
Alderman Brown, Chairman of the Planning Board Review Committee, thanked the
citizens for their interest in the Planning Board and communicated that the
Committee interviewed applicants and is continuing to consider those
applications in order to determine how they can best provide the opportunity
for those persons wanting and willing to serve. The Committee is looking at the
Planning Board as well as other committees and boards and will make a
recommendation at the April meeting.
ITEM 10.
Adoption of Order to set dates for tax lien advertisement in accordance with
G.S. 105-369
Alderman Fisher moved that in accordance with G.S. 105-369 that the tax
collector be authorized to advertise tax liens April 5 and April 12, 2006.
Motion seconded by Alderman Callari, vote of approval was unanimous.
ITEM 11.
Proclamation declaring March 17, 2006 as “Arbor Day” in the City of Southport
Alderman Childs moved that the following proclamation be approved declaring
March 17, 2006 as Arbor Day in the City, seconded by alderman Callari, vote of
approval was unanimous.
CELEBRATE ARBOR DAY PROCLAMATION
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-46.jpg]
WHEREAS, in 1972, J. Sterling Morton proposed to the Nebraska Board of
Agriculture that a special day be set aside for the planting of trees, and
WHEREAS, this holiday called Arbor Day , was first observed with the planting
of more than a million trees in Nebraska, and
WHEREAS, Arbor Day is now observed throughout the nation and the world, and
WHEREAS, trees can reduce the erosion of our precious topsoil by wind and
water, cut heating and cooling costs, moderate the temperature, clean the air,
produce life-giving oxygen, and provide habitat for wildlife, and
WHEREAS, trees are a renewable resource giving us paper, wood for our homes,
fuel for our fires, and beautify our community, and
WHEREAS, trees in our city increase property values, enhance the economic
vitality of business areas, and beautify our community, and
WHEREAS, trees wherever they are planted are a source of joy and spiritual
renewal.
NOW, THEREFORE,  I Norman R. Holden, Mayor of the City of Southport, N.C. do
hereby proclaim March 17, 2006 as ARBOR DAY in the City and urge all citizens
to celebrate and support efforts to protect our trees and woodlands, and
 
FURTHER, I urge all citizens to plant trees to gladden the heart and promote
the well being of this and future generations.
DATED,  this 9th day of March, 2006.
S/Norman R. Holden, Mayor
ITEM 12.
Proclamation declaring the week of March 13-17 as “Multiple Sclerosis Awareness
Week”
Alderman Powell moved to adopt a Proclamation declaring the week of March 13-17
as Multiple Sclerosis Awareness Week in the City of Southport, seconded by
Alderman Childs, vote of approval was unanimous.
PROCLAMATION
MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS AWARENESS WEEK
WHEREAS, MS is a chronic and disabling disease of the central nervous system in
which in progression, severity and specific symptoms cannot be foreseen; and
WHEREAS, every hour of every day someone new is diagnosed with MS, a disease
that can erode a person’s abilities and hopes, halt a career and unravel the
fabric of families; and
WHEREAS, last year in North Carolina more than $8.5 million was raised to find
a cure for MS and develop effective treatments for the disease, as well as
providing a wide range of client programs to improve the lives of the ten
thousand individuals living with MS in our state; and
WHEREAS, according to the National MS Society, $6.3 million has been granted to
North Carolina’s universities over the last fifteen years to find a cure for
MS; and
WHEREAS, this investment is paying off in significant advances in treating MS,
such as new medications which may reduce or delay future disability for people
with MS; and
WHEREAS, research advances have brought us closer to finding the cure, much
remains to be done, and services must continue to be provided to those who live
with the disease; and
WHEREAS, there are public and private agencies available to serve the
constantly changing needs of those with MS and their families living in North
Carolina by extending essential services to all who need them.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport that they hereby proclaim March 13-17, 2006 as “MULIPLE SCLEROSIS
AWARENESS WEEK” in the City of Southport, and commend this observance to all
our citizens.
S/Norman R. Holden, Mayor
ATTEST:
S/Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
ITEM 13.
Budget Amendments are mid year line item reclassifications that do not change
the total of the respective funds
Alderman Callari moved to approve budget amendments #14 and #15, seconded by
Alderman Childs, the vote of approval was unanimous.
Budget Amendment #14
Fiscal Year 2005-2006
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session March 9, 2006 that the following Budget Amendment
be adopted for reporting fiscal mid-year line item budget reclassifications as
listed below. There will be no change in the total Water Sewer Fund Budget.
 
Water/Sewer Fund
                               Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section V
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
      Operations & Mainte0.00e            2,237,540.00
            Total  0.00
 
ADOPTED this the 9th day of March, 2006
S/Mayor Norman R. Holden
Attest:
S/Regina W. Alexander, CMC
Clerk to the Board
Budget Amendment #15
Fiscal Year 2005-2006
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session March 9, 2006 that the following Budget Amendment
is adopted for reporting fiscal mid-year line item budget reclassifications as
listed below. There will be no change in the total Powell Bill Fund Budget.
 
Powell Bill Fund
                               Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section II
C.   Appropriated Expenditures
      Operations & Mainte0.00e            104,200.00
            Total  0.00
 
ADOPTED this the 9th day of March, 2006
S/Mayor Norman R. Holden
Attest:
S/Regina W. Alexander, CMC
Clerk to the Board
ITEM 14.
Tax Release
Alderman Brown motioned to approve a 2005 tax release for Terry A Beers in the
amount of $208.37 upon recommendation of the tax collector, seconded by
Alderman Fisher. Vote of approval was unanimous. (Reason for release, boat kept
at St. James more than six months.)
ITEM 15.
Other Business
City Manager Gandy stated much to his chagrin, 2 laurel oaks located at 103 and
105 South Howe Street needs to be removed due to serious stress and decay. Mr.
David Nash, Arborist has checked the trees and recommends removal. Once the
trees are removed, they will be replaced with the largest oak trees that they
can find that is transportable. Mayor stated he looked at the trees and
recommend they be removed and replaced as soon as possible. The consensus of
the Board was to remove the trees and replace them as soon as possible.
STORMWATER ORDINANCE AMENDMENTS
Mr. Emilita, City Planner stated he prepared a draft of the language proposed
for the Storm Water Ordinance and met with engineers from W. K. Dickson to
provide technical engineering expertise in the process. The proposed amendment
(s) will be presented to the Planning Board at their next meeting.
N. C. EASTERN MUNICIPAL POWER ASSOCIATION
Alderman Fisher informed the Board that he was in Washington, D. C. the week of
February 28 thru March 2 representing the N.C. Eastern Municipal Power Agency
at the American Public Power Association meeting. During this time he met with
the North Carolina members of congress. He explained that twelve resolutions
were approved by the Public Power Association for submission to congress. Two
of the resolutions he found most interesting were “Cold ironing” which is
dockside power vs. ship power which should be a service of the new
international port. Second: Plug in hybrid electric vehicles. He asked the
parking consultants to include this in their study for review. Alderman Fisher
stated that he met with eight members of the House including Senator Burr and
Senator Dole’s staff. Four topics briefed for the Power Agency were economic
development, captive rail shipping, telecommunications, and low income home
energy assistance. Yucca Mountains were discussed at the Senate. During the
meeting with Congressman McIntyre, Senator Burr and Senator Dole’s staff, he
discussed the city’s wastewater and electric programs with his pitch being
proactive not reactive federal grants. He stated that he and the City Manager
will be preparing follow up correspondence to submit.
ITEM 16.
Executive Session
Alderman Fisher moved that the Board enter executive session to establish and
instruct the Water & Sewer Committee concerning the position taken by or on
behalf of the Board of Aldermen in negotiating the price and other material
terms of a proposed contract for the acquisition of the Swain property located
off Sunny Point road. He also suggested negotiating the consideration and all
material terms of a proposed contract by the Fire Department Committee for the
acquisition of property located on the West side of Howe Street across from the
hospital by exchange with J. Arthur Dosher Memorial Hospital. The motion was
seconded by Alderman Powell and the vote of approval was unanimous.
NOTE: Minutes from executive session will remain sealed until Board action to
unseal them.
ITEM 17.
Regular Session Reconvened
No further business to come before the Board, Alderman Childs moved that the
meeting be adjourned, seconded by Alderman Brown, vote carried.
______________________________________
S/Norman R. Holden
Mayor
____________________________________
S/Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
Executive Session
 
Executive Session Minutes March 9, 2006
 
Alderman Fisher explained to the Board that the Wastewater Committee has been
working on negotiations for land because a retention pond is need for the
Wastewater System. An offer of $165,439 was made for approximately 20 acres of
land from the Swains. He stated the consensus of the Committee was to pursue
the contract under terms outlined by the Sewer Committee.
Alderman Powell moved to authorize the Wastewater Committee to proceed with
negotiations on the contract to purchase land from the Swains and present it to
the Board at the next scheduled meeting. The motion was seconded by Alderman
Brown. The vote of approval was unanimous.
Alderman Fisher stated that they have also been in negotiations with Dosher
Hospital pertaining to the Land where the finance offices are located across
from the Hospital. During their meeting they took the city garage off of the
table because the city needs the property for a sub-station. He asked for board
approval to proceed with the negotiations to swap out land with the hospital.
Alderman Callari moved to approve the request from the Committee and grant them
the authority to proceed with negotiations, seconded by Alderman Powell, the
vote of approval was unanimous.
Attorney Isenberg stated before land is exchanged it will need to be advertised
for 10 days before the meeting to disclose what the city is proposing to
exchange.
No further discussion, Alderman Powell moved to re-enter regular session,
seconded by Alderman Callari. Vote carried.
APRIL 13, 2006
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
APRIL 13, 2006    7:30 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, N. C.
 
MEMBERS PRESENT:    Norman R. Holden, Mayor
            Aldermen Paul Fisher, Mary “Stuart” Callari,
            James Powell, Nelson Adams, James Brown
            and Mary “Meezie” Childs
MEMBERS ABSENT:   None
STAFF PRESENT:      Rob Gandy, City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander-CMC, City Clerk
            Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
            David Emilita, Director of Planning
            Jerry Dove, Chief of Police
ITEM 1.
CALL TO ORDER
Mayor Holden called the regular monthly meeting of the Southport Board of
Aldermen to order at 7:40 p.m.
ITEM 1A.
POLICE DEPARTMENT
Chief Dove introduced two new police officers recently hired by the Police
Department:
Michael Simmons (permanent) and Preston Nowell (reserve).
ITEM 2.
INVOCATION
Alderman Brown delivered the invocation.
ITEM 3.
MINUTES
Alderman Powell moved that the regular meeting minutes of March 9 and Board
retreat minutes of February 11, be approved as presented. Motion seconded by
Alderman Callari, the vote of approval was unanimous.
ITEM 4.
CITIZEN MATTERS (Petitions from the floor)
Mr. Randy Fullwood requested to address the Board regarding an alleged code
violation. City Manager Gandy informed the Board that he advised Mr. Fullwood
on at least two occasions if he believed that there was a code violation that
he should discuss it with the Planning Director, and if that was not successful
to appeal the decision to the Zoning Board of Adjustments. (Mayor asked the
Clerk to make the written complaint a part of the record – Attachment #1)
ITEM 5.
Public Hearing to consider revisions to the Southport Unified Development
Ordinance, Article 24, Storm Water Discharge Control Ordinance.
ITEM 6.
Public Hearing to consider revisions to the Southport Unified Development
Ordinance regarding clarification of density provisions.
ITEM 7.
Public Hearing to consider revisions to the Southport Unified Development
Ordinance regarding improved submission review procedure.
Alderman Childs moved to enter Public Hearing on Items #5-7. Alderman Brown
seconded, vote carried.
There were no public comments on Item #5, Storm Water Discharge Ordinance.
Mayor called for public comments on Item #6 regarding clarification of density
provisions.
Mr. Jeff Losey of the Law Firm Roundtree, Losey and Baldwin of Wilmington,
representing Cape Fear Trading Group asked if revisions to the Southport
Unified Development Ordinance regarding clarification of density provisions
were consistent with recommendations from the Planning Director. Mayor stated
that the revisions had been advertised and all were consistent. No further
comments on Item #6.
Public comments on Item #7 regarding improved submission review procedure.
Attorney Losey asked that projects already started be permitted to continue and
any change in the review process not result in further delay. Attorney Isenberg
stated the ordinance does not make any substantive changes, only review
procedure.
No further comments, Alderman Callari moved to re-enter regular session,
seconded by Alderman Childs, the vote was unanimous.
ITEM #5
Mayor asked the Board’s position on Article 24, Storm Water Discharge Control
Ordinance. Discussion: Attorney Isenberg stated in reviewing the changes he
noted some misspellings and asked that they be incorporated.
Alderman Powell moved to approve the Southport Unified Development Ordinance,
Article 24, Storm Water Discharge Control Ordinance and incorporate the changes
noted by Attorney Isenberg. The motion was seconded by Alderman Callari, the
vote was unanimous. (Changes incorporated as recommended)
1.    Redevelopment of Existing Properties:
The wording in Section 24-2 (B) in the second sentence is amended to read
(addition here underlined):
In addition, storm water discharge control measures shall be provided to limit
the 25-year developed peak discharge rates to existing peak discharge rates for
unimproved land (land not having been improved) such as pasture, grassland,
meadow, brush, secondary (old field) growth or forest. Improved property
(property that has the soil surface exposed or a disturbance to the vegetative
cover or topography) that is proposed for redevelopment, whether or not to be
paved, containing or to contain structures, or be regraded, shall include storm
water discharge control measures to limit the two-year, ten-year and 25-year
design storm discharge rates from exceeding that amount discharged in an
unimproved state. For the purposes of this Ordinance, the design storm is the
storm of 3-hour duration as shown on Chart E-6 in the City of Southport Storm
water Management Plan Technical Manual.  
2.    Illegal Discharges:  A new paragraph (F) is to be added to Section 24-
1 to read as follows:
(F)   Illegal Discharges. No person shall cause or allow the discharge,
emission, disposal, pouring or pumping directly or indirectly to any storm
water conveyance, the waters of the State or upon the land in manner and amount
that the substance is likely to reach a storm water conveyance or the waters of
the State or, any liquid, solid, gas, or other substance, other than storm
water; provided that non-storm water discharges associated with following
activities are allowed on the condition that they do not contain potential
pollutants, create erosion, cause sedimentation or impact the existing water
quality of the conveyance or of the waters of the State:
(1)   Potable water line flushing,
(2)   Landscape irrigation and lawn watering;
(3)   Uncontaminated pumped groundwater (not including construction
dewatering);
(4)   Diverted stream flows;
(5)   Naturally rising groundwater and springs;
(6)   Discharges from potable water sources;
(7)   Air conditioning condensation;
(8)   Uncontaminated foundation and footing drains;
(9)   Uncontaminated water from crawl space pumps;
(10)   Flows from riparian habitats and wetlands;
(11)   Dechlorinated (less than 1 ppm total chlorine) swimming pool discharges;
(12)   Street wash waters;
(13)   Flows from fire-fighting;
(14)   Other non-storm water discharges for which a valid NPDES discharge
permit has been approved and issued by the State of North Carolina, provided
that any such discharges to the municipal waste water system shall be
authorized by the City of Southport.
Discharges of hazardous materials released, or having the potential to reach a
storm water conveyance system, shall be contained, controlled, collected and
properly disposed. All affected areas shall be restored to their condition pre-
existing the discharge event.
Persons in control of the hazardous materials immediately prior to their
release or discharge, and persons owning the property on which the materials
were released or discharged, shall immediately notify the City Fire Chief of
the release or discharge, as well as making any required notifications under
State and federal law. Notification shall not relieve any person of any
expenses related to the restoration, loss, damage, or any other liability which
may be incurred as a result of said release, nor shall such notification
relieve any person from other liability which may imposed by State or federal
law.
3.   Illicit Connections: A new paragraph (G) is to be added to section 24-1 
(G) Illicit Connections.
(1)   Any drain or conveyance, whether surface or subsurface, which allows an
illegal discharge to enter the storm water conveyance system, is unlawful.
Prohibited connections include, but are not limited to, any conveyances which
allow any storm water discharge containing sewage, process waste water,
commercial washing machine wastewater including commercial vehicle washing, to
enter the storm water conveyance system. Any connection thereto from indoor
drains and sinks, regardless of whether said drain or connection had been
previously allowed, permitted, or approved by a governmental agency is
prohibited. Any drain or conveyance from a commercial, residential or
industrial land use to the storm water conveyance system which has not been
documented in plans, maps or equivalent records and approved by the City is
prohibited. The construction, use, maintenance or continued existence of
illicit connections to the storm water conveyance system is prohibited.
(1)   Where such connections exist in violation of this section and said
connections were made prior to the adoption of this provision or any other
ordinance prohibiting such connections, the property owner or the person using
said connection shall remove the connection within one (1) year following the
effective date of this ordinance. However, the one (1) year grace period shall
not apply to connections which may result in the discharge of hazardous
materials or other discharges which may pose an immediate threat to health and
safety, or are likely to result in an immediate injury and harm real or
personal property, natural resources, wildlife, or habitat.
(2)   Where it is determined that said connection:
a.   May result in the discharge of hazardous materials, or may pose an
immediate threat to health and safety, or is likely to result in immediate
injury and harm to real and personal property, natural resources, wildlife, or
habitat, or
b.   Was made in violation of any applicable regulation or ordinance other than
this Article, the Public Services Director shall designate the time within
which the connection shall be removed. In setting the time limit for
compliance, the
i.   The quantity and complexity of the work,
ii.   The consequences of delay
iii.   The potential harm to the environment, to the public health and to
public and private property, and
iv.   The cost of remedying the damage.
4.   Post-Construction Maintenance or Warranty Bonds:
A new Section 24-10 is to be added to read as follows:
Section 24-10: Post-Construction Maintenance/Warranty Bond
At the time of the release of the performance bond, a maintenance bond shall be
furnished to the City to guarantee upkeep and the workmanship and materials of
all required storm water management improvements proposed to be dedicated to
the City for a period of one (1) year from the date of the release of the
performance bond/security. The amount of the maintenance bond shall be twenty
(20) percent of the equivalent amount of the performance bond. Thirty (30) days
prior to the end of the one (1) year warranty period, the applicant shall
request in writing to the City Administrator, for an inspection by the Public
Services Director to determine the need for any repair or maintenance work to
be accomplished before the release of the maintenance bond. Following the
inspection, the applicant shall accomplish all required repairs and maintenance
to the satisfaction of the Public Services Director prior to the release of the
bond. If the applicant does not perform said maintenance and repairs, the City
shall declare the bond in default and perform said repairs with the funds of
the maintenance bond.
5.   Upstream Watershed Drainage: A new subsection (6) is to be added to
Section 24-2 (C) to read as follows:
(6)   The post-development discharge for the two-year, ten-year and 25-year
design storm shall not exceed pre-development discharge including runoff from
all upstream flows entering the site under existing conditions.
6.   Language and Ambiguities and Conflicts:
The Ordinance contains four areas of language ambiguity which can cause
conflicting interpretations regarding applicability.
Existing Section 24-1 (C) (3) is to be deleted and replaced by the following :
(3) Residential development of a single family dwelling or a duplex on a single
existing lot, provided that the lot is not part of a larger common development
plan.
Existing Section 24-2 (H) (5) is to be deleted in its entirety, and Section 24-
3(B) (2) is rewritten as follows by adding the wording here underlined to
paragraph (2):
If a responsible party fails or refuses to meet the requirements of the
maintenance covenant, the City, after reasonable notice, may correct a
violation of the design standards or the maintenance needs by performing all
necessary work to place the facility in proper working condition. (The
remainder of paragraph (2) to read as is)
Section 24-7 is to be deleted and replaced with the following wording:
Section 24-7: Retention Pond or Subsurface Facility Requirements
Within areas zoned for commercial, industrial or multifamily uses (CBD, BD, HC,
LI, HI, MF, PUD, and O/I0, retention pond facilities or subsurface drainage
facilities shall be required as follows:
1.   For all development which exceeds forty percent (40%) impervious surface
coverage on a parcel or tract of land whose land area is less than one (1) acre
in size.
2.   For all development which exceeds twenty-five percent (25%) impervious
surface coverage on parcels or tracts of land whose land area is one (1) acre
or more in size.
NOTE: The designed should refer to the NC Department of Environment and Natural
Resources, Erosion and Sediment Control Planning and Design Manual for
supplemental information.
7.   Penalties:  Section 24-4 (E) is to be deleted and replaced with the
following:
Penalties. The penalties for violations of this Article shall be as follows,
the dollar amount penalties contained in Section 7-4 notwithstanding.
(1)   Civil penalties imposed for illegal discharge shall be as follows:
a.   First time offenders will be assessed a civil penalty of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) per violation or per day for a continuing violation if the
quantity of the discharge is less than or equal to five (5) gallons and
consists of domestic or household products. If the quantity of the discharge is
greater than five (5) gallons or contains non-domestic substances, the
offending party shall be assessed a civil penalty of one thousand dollars
($1000.00) per violation or per day for a continuing violation.
b.   Penalties imposed upon repeat offenders willfully committing violations
which are identical or substantially similar to previous violations shall be
double the amount assessed for the prior violation or per day for a continuing
violation, but shall in no event exceed ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) per
violation or per day for a continuing violation.
(2)   All other acts or conditions constituting a violation of this Article
shall subject the offender to a civil penalty of five hundred dollars ($500.00)
per violation or per day for any continuing violation.
ITEM #6
Mayor asked the Board’s pleasure on clarification of density provisions.
Alderman Fisher moved to approve revisions to the UDO regarding the
clarification of density provisions. Motion seconded by Alderman Childs, the
vote was unanimous.
1.    Amend Article 11. TABLE OF AREA, YARD, DENSITY, AND HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS 
The second column heading is to be amended to read as follows:
 
Minimum Net Buildable Area (Square Feet)
1
 
2.    Amend Definition (210) OSR (Open Space Ratio)
“(210) OSR (Open Space Ratio). The ratio of all open space as defined in
Definition (209) Open Space, contained in an application for approval to the
total development project area included in the application, expressed as a
percent. For the purposes of calculating the ratio, wetlands, as defined by
CAMA and/or the US Army Corps of Engineers, and water bodies, sediment and
detention basins and storm water retention ponds shall qualify for no more than
fifty (50) percent of the minimum open space requirements of this ordinance as
determined by this calculation.”
3.    Provide a definition of impervious surface ratio
“(147a) Impervious Surface Ratio. The ratio of the total area of impervious
surface as defined in Definition (147) Impervious Surface, in an application
for approval to the total area within the development project property
boundary, expressed as a percent.”
ITEM #7
Attorney Isenberg stated after review with City Staff, some procedural changes
were noted and asked that they be incorporated. Discussion: Alderman Fisher
suggested development plans be completed before submission to the Board and
recommended plans be stamped with approval date. Mr. Emilita explained that it
has been discussed that when a development plan has been voted on for approval,
the plan will be stamped with the approval date, resolution and title of plan
so it will be conclusive as to what plan has been approved in the minutes and
paper documents reflect that approval accordingly. Mr. Emilita stated if this
procedure is adopted, development plans will not be presented to the Board
unless it is deemed completed by staff.
Alderman Childs moved to approve the application review procedure to be
incorporated into the Unified Development Ordinance. The motion was seconded by
Alderman Fisher, the vote was unanimous.
1.   Article 12, Section 12-5 Application Review Procedure
Paragraphs (A) and (B) are to be deleted and replaced by the following
paragraphs.
“(A) Prior to the filing of an application requiring the approval of the
Planning Board and/or the Board of Aldermen, the applicant shall submit to the
Administrator a sketch or preliminary design plan for the proposal. Four (4)
copies of all materials containing the information required by the pertinent
section of the UDO shall be submitted. The Administrator, together with City
staff shall have thirty (30) days in which to determine the completeness of the
submission. It is the intent during this period to outline significant issues
such as access, layout, development constraints, availability of and proximity
to utilities, environmental impacts and/or pertinent zoning regulations.
Missing or incomplete information is to be supplied by the applicant during
this period. The Administrator may extend this period to allow the applicant to
complete the application, and staff to review the material submitted. Upon
determination of completeness, the application will then be placed on the next
available Planning Board agenda. Upon notification of placement on the agenda,
the applicant shall submit to the Administrator twelve (12) copies of all
material required by the Wednesday one week prior to the meeting of said
Planning Board to perfect the application. Failure to timely submit shall be
grounds for tabling of the application.
(B)   At the Planning Board meeting, the applicant should present the proposed
application and receive the Planning Board’s input. The Planning Board may
appoint a Review Committee to report at the next regularly scheduled meeting.
At that meeting, the Planning Board shall adopt and issue a report which shall
determine whether there are any recommendations by the Board which should be
incorporated into the preliminary plat or planned building group application or
the referral to the Board of Aldermen.”
2.   Article 12, Section 12-17: Procedure for Conditional Use Permit
The first paragraph of this section is to deleted and replaced as follows. The
remainder of the section is to read as is.
“Conditional use permits may be issued by the Administrator, after approval by
the Board of Aldermen, for the uses as designated in Section 12-18: Table of
Regulations for Conditional Uses, and after Planning Board review and
recommendations. The petition for a conditional use permit and accompanying
plans shall be submitted to the Administrator in accord with Section 12-5. The
Planning Board shall forward the application and its recommendations to the
Board of Aldermen within thirty (30) days after completing its review of the
application in accord with Section 12-5(B). Upon receiving the application and
recommendations of the Planning Board, the Board of Aldermen shall schedule a
public hearing in accordance with the notice and public hearing provisions of
this Ordinance and State law. The Board of Aldermen shall consider the
application and recommendations of the Planning Board, and may approve or deny
the requested conditional use permit. No vote greater than a majority vote
shall be required for the Board of Aldermen to issue such permits. For the
purposes of this section, vacant positions on the board and members who are
disqualified from voting on a quasi-judicial matter shall not be considered
“members of the Board” for calculation of the requisite majority. When deciding
conditional use permits, the Board of Aldermen shall follow quasi-judicial
procedures. (See also Sections 3-15 and 3-19 of this Ordinance).”
3.   Article 13 Introductory Unnumbered Section
The second paragraph in the introductory unnumbered section of Article 13 is to
be deleted and replaced with the following:
“Planned building groups (inclusive of manufactured home parks) shall be
approved by the Planning Board unless otherwise specified. Planned building
group applications shall be submitted to the Administrator and processed in
accord with Section 12-5 and this Article.”
4.   Article 13, Section 13-1 (E) Sketch Design Plan 
The existing first paragraph is to be deleted and replaced by the following:
“Sketch Design Plan. Prior to the filing of an application for approval of a
planned building group, an applicant shall submit a sketch design plan to the
Administrator to be processed in accord with Section 12-5”.
5.   Article 25, Section 25-5: Major Subdivision Sketch Design Submission and
Review
Delete the existing first two paragraphs, replacing them with the following:
“Prior to the filing of an application for approval of a preliminary plat, an
applicant shall submit a sketch design plan to the Administrator to be
processed in accord with Section 12-5.”
6.   Article 25, Section 25-6: Major Subdivision Preliminary Plat Submission
and Review (A) Submission Procedure.
Delete the second paragraph and replace it with the following wording:
“Twelve (12) copies of the preliminary plat and any supplementary material (as
well as any additional copies which the Administrator determines are needed to
be sent to other agencies) shall be submitted. The review procedure for major
subdivision sketch design shall be followed for the preliminary plan
submission. Preliminary plats shall meet the specifications in Section 25-8 to
be considered complete.”
(C) Review Procedures . Delete the third paragraph and replace it with the
following wording:
“Upon Planning Board recommendation for approval, the applicant shall submit
twelve (12) copies of the plat so recommended and any supplementary material to
the City Manager for consideration by the Board of Aldermen. A complete
submission shall be made by the Monday one week prior to the week of the
regular meeting of the Board of Aldermen in order to be eligible for placement
on the agenda.”
7.   Article 4, Section 4-1 Amending this Ordinance (B) Application.
Existing Section 4-1 (B) is to be deleted and replaced by the following:
“(B) Application . A complete application for any amendment shall contain a
description of the proposed zoning regulation or zoning map amendment. The
application shall state in detail whether the proposed amendment is consistent
with the City Comprehensive Plan, CAMA Core Land Use Plan, and any other
officially adopted plan that is applicable. The application shall also give
detailed evidence that the proposed amendment is in the interest and will
benefit the general public and not solely be of benefit to the applicant; that
the uses within the proposed zoning district are similar or comparable to the
uses in the district as currently zoned, or that none of the uses permitted in
the proposed zoning district may potentially adversely affect property values
or the health, safety, morals, or general welfare of the residents of the
surrounding area. Such application shall be filed with the Administrator to be
processed in accord with Section 12-5.”
ITEM 8.
Review of Sketch Plan for Stevens Park Project
Heather Burchard, Landscape Architect and Community Designer for Steven’s Park
Project introduced members of their team including Brian McAlister with Withers
and Ravenel, Jeff Losey, Legal Counsel, Rod Hyson Sr., Rod Hyson Jr. and Bill
Bruce, Project Coordinator. Ms. Burchard presented a comprehensive plan for the
Steven’s Park Project which includes single family and duplex homes totaling
167 units. Alderman Adams expressed concern over the amount of traffic on 9th
Street. However it appears from the plan that most of the traffic will access
West 11th. Ms. Burchard explained that there is an 11th Street corridor on the
duplex side of the development. She stated that in eighteen (18) months, Bald
Head will relocate its operations to Ferry Road which should alleviate some of
the traffic on 9th Street. Alderman Adams appeared to be of the opinion, if not
Bald Head traffic, that there will be other traffic. Ms. Burchard explained
that they are under contract for a traffic impact analysis (TIA) which will be
submitted with their preliminary plat. Alderman Adams raised the possibility of
requesting DOT to install a traffic light on 11th Street. Ms. Burchard agreed
that this could be a solution. Alderman Powell stated it was his belief during
discussion of the Comprehensive Plan, that it was agreed upon that any
development proposed for this area would include the installation of a traffic
corridor to help relieve traffic congestion, and he is of the opinion that 11th
Street is not the answer. Ms. Burchard stated that this development is part of
a larger plan and in the future, there will be other access points that will
open onto Robert Ruark, therefore traffic will not be concentrated only on
these two streets. The Board expressed appreciation over the concept of the
development and of particular interest were the parks, ball fields and
concession stand.
Mr. Emilita stated the Planning Board has not formally approved the Plan and it
is presented to the Board as an introductory presentation. The Planning Board
after its meeting will present a recommendation at the next Board meeting.
For point of clarification, City Manager Gandy stated part of the development
will be serviced by a package plant as a result of the City not being able to
fulfill its sanitary and sewer needs at this time. He requested a copy of the
construction plans and a meeting be scheduled at some point and time to discuss
maintenance of the plant and whether or not it will be the responsibility of
the developer. He further requested that the developer mirror what is already
in place for compatibility when the time comes to connect to the city sewer
service.
The Board thanked Mr. Hyson for his consideration of Stevens Park.
In related business, Ms. Burchard informed the Board that they have seven non-
conforming lots on 9th Street that are an original part of the development. The
lots are 73 square feet and should be 75. Mr. Gandy explained that this is a
matter for the Board of Adjustment.
ITEM 9.
Presentation by Representatives from Progress Energy
Mr. John Elliott, Manager of Community Relations of the Eastern Region and
Danny Glosson, Operations Manager for the Southport area discussed with the
Board the power outage on January 27, 2006 on Jabbertown Road where the main
feeder line that serves the City failed. He expressed their concerns and
explained that Progress Energy immediately conducted an investigation and root
cause analysis to determine what caused the equipment failure. The equipment
was replaced and Progress Energy implemented a comprehensive plan to ensure
that the feeder was placed in optimal operating condition. A copy of the
comprehensive plan was provided to City Management providing an overview of the
progress and actions taken to ensure safe and reliable power to the City.
Appreciation was expressed by the Board to Progress Energy officials for
effectively addressing the issue.
ITEM 10.
Review of Proposed Modification Regarding the Cape Fear Landing Project East
Side of Yacht Basin Drive – Tom Peterson, Developer
Mr. Emilita, Planning Director explained that this is a proposal to modify the
existing approved subdivision for 6 family dwellings by substituting a mixed
use structure for lots 1-4 on the approved Plan. The mix use structure is
proposed to contain 4 condo units on the top floor, 2 restaurants, 1 on the
second floor and the other a 2 story restaurant and 2 levels of parking
beneath. The proposal is incompliance with parking and height requirements. Mr.
Emilita stated this reintroduces the concept of mixed use and public access to
the waterfront. As explained by the City Manager, the purpose of bringing this
item before the Board is to gauge thoughts on the concept, and if favorable, it
will be presented to the Planning Board as mixed use for a conditional use
permit.
Alderman Adams stated this matter should not be discussed by the Board before
presentation to the Planning Board. Mayor allowed Mr. Peterson to proceed with
the presentation because it was allowed earlier and some members expressed an
interest in the presentation.
Mr. Peterson explained his proposed plans and stated that 1 structure will
contain 5,000 square feet with 2 levels of parking, elevator access to each of
the 4 units which sit above the restaurant, and above that are 4 individual
condo units with their own roof top and deck access. The other side of the
building will house a 2 story restaurant for casual dining. For confirmation,
Mayor asked if the plans were modified from residential to mixed use with some
commercial. Mr. Peterson concurred.
In answer to questions from Mayor Holden concerning water in the streets during
high tide, Mr. Peterson explained that this will be addressed by his engineers.
ITEM 11.
Planning Board Appointments
Alderman Brown, Chairman of the Planning Board Review Committee with members
Aldermen Childs and Powell, Barbara Clewis, Chairperson of the Planning Board
and David Emilita, Planning Director. Alderman Brown reported that all
applicants were interviewed and submitted the following recommendation:
Reappoint Donnie Potter (regular member), Sandy Spencer (regular member), and
Buddy Barnes (alternate). Appreciation was extended to all applicants for their
willingness to serve on the Planning Board and other committees. The Committee
will make recommendations from the pool of applicants interviewed for the
Planning Board for appointment to the Board of Adjustments. After discussion,
it was agreed upon to advertise for vacancies on the Board of Adjustment.
Alderman Powell nominated:
Donnie Potter as a regular member
Buddy Barnes as a regular member
Alderman Adams nominated:
Donnie Potter, regular member
Sandy Spencer, regular member
Alderman Fisher nominated:
John Hamilton, regular member
Alderman Powell moved that the nominations be closed seconded by Alderman
Callari, all voted in favor. Mayor stated that each member shall have 2 votes.
Votes cast for the nominees were:
Donnie Potter: 6 aye votes – Alderman Adams, Childs, Brown, Fisher, Powell and
Callari
Sandy Spencer: 1 aye vote, Alderman Adams
5 no votes, Aldermen Childs, Brown, Powell, Callari and Fisher
Buddy Barnes: 4 aye votes, Aldermen Childs, Brown, Powell and Callari.
2 no votes, Aldermen Adams and Fisher.
John Hamilton:  1 aye vote, Aldermen Fisher
5 no votes, Aldermen Adams, Childs, Powell, Callari and Brown
Alderman Powell moved to nominate Bill Duke as an alternate member to the
Planning Board. Nominations closed upon motion of Alderman Brown, seconded by
Alderman Childs, all voted in favor.
Bill Duke, 5 ayes, Aldermen Childs, Brown, Powell, Callari and Fisher
1 no, Alderman Adams
ITEM 12.
Review of Contiguous Voluntary Annexation Petition
Alderman Callari moved to accept the annexation petition for contiguous
voluntary annexation for Robert and Mary Jo Willis and authorized the Clerk to
investigate the sufficiency of said petition; motion seconded by Alderman
Fisher, the vote of approval was unanimous.
ITEM 13.
Review of request from Mr. Cecil Frank for Alley Abandonment
Mayor communicated that he discussed this matter with Mr. Frank and Chairman of
the Parking Committee, this issue will be placed on hold until the parking
study is completed.
ITEM 14.
Resolution supporting use of tolls to construct, operate, and maintain
Interstate 74 in Brunswick and Columbus Counties
Mayor Holden recommended the adoption of the resolution in support of tolls to
construct, operate and maintain Interstate 74 in Brunswick County and Columbus
Counties. Alderman Powell moved to adopt the resolution, seconded by Alderman
Brown, the vote was unanimous. (Attachment #2)
ITEM 15.
Review and approval of Proclamation recognizing April 17-30 as Litter Sweep in
the City of Southport.
Alderman Childs moved to adopt the Proclamation, seconded by Alderman Brown,
the vote was unanimous. (Attachment #3)
ITEM 16.
Review and approval of Proclamation recognizing April 30 – May 6, 2006 as
Municipal Clerks’ Week
Alderman Fisher moved to adopt the Proclamation, seconded by Alderman Brown to
include a paid day off for the City Clerk., vote carried. Alderman Fisher
congratulated the Clerk for hosting the North Carolina Association of Municipal
Clerks Regional Meeting in Southport which was well attended and enjoyed by
visiting Clerks and representatives from the League of Municipalities and
School of Government.
PROCLAMATION
36TH ANNUAL MUNICIPAL CLERKS WEEK
APRIL 30 - MAY 6, 2006
WHEREAS, the Office of the Municipal Clerk, a time honored and vital part of
local government exists throughout the world; and
WHEREAS, the Office of the Municipal Clerk is the oldest among public servants;
and
WHEREAS, the Office of the Municipal Clerk provides the professional link
between the citizens, the local governing bodies and agencies of government at
other levels; and
WHEREAS, the Municipal Clerk serves as the information center on functions of
local government and community; and
WHEREAS, Municipal Clerks continually strive to improve the administration of
the affairs of the Office of the Municipal Clerk through participation in
education programs, seminars, workshops and the annual meetings of their state,
province, county and international professional organizations; and
WHEREAS, it is most appropriate that we recognize the accomplishments of the
Office of the Municipal Clerk;
NOW, THEREFORE, I Norman R. Holden, Mayor of the City of Southport, does
recognize the week of April 30 through May 6, 2006 as “Municipal Clerks Week”,
and further extend appreciation to our Municipal Clerk Regina W. Alexander, and
to all Municipal Clerks for the vital services they perform and their exemplary
dedication to the communities they represent.
ADOPTED, the 13th day of April 2006.
S/Norman R. Holden
Mayor
ITEM 17.
Resolution approving contract to purchase certain real estate (Swain Property)
City Attorney stated negotiations were completed with the Swains for the
purchase of additional property for a sewer spray field. A proposed contract
was negotiated including terms of purchase and asked that a resolution be
approved authorizing the purchase at the designated price. Alderman Fisher
moved to approve the contract/resolution, seconded by Alderman Callari, the
vote of approval was unanimous. (Attachment #4)
ITEM 18.
Tax Releases
Alderman Fisher moved seconded by Alderman Brown to approve the tax releases as
recommended by the Tax Collector, vote carried.
Bill/Parcel # Name/Acct     Date     Amt. Released Value      Reason r
                                                   Released   Release
              Bald Head                                       Adjusted by
237KA003      Island        2003 tax $4,112.85     $1,246,320 State Property
                                                              Tax Commission
              Bald Head                                       Adjusted by
237KA003      Island        2004 tax $3,738.96     $1,246,320 State Property
                                                              Tax Commission
              Bald Head                                       Adjusted by
237KA003      Island        2005 tax 3,365..06     1,246,320  Property tax
                                                              Commission
              CAKB                   31.05                    Billed in
002534        50141264      2005 tax Int. 1.08     11,500     error out of
                                     32.13                    city limits
                                     27.00                    Closed
000516        Dry Dock      2005 tax Int. .94      10,000     Business
                                     27.94                    December 2004
              Robby W                4.63                     Taxpayer has
002578        Hewett        2005 tax .18           1,715      not boat
                                     Int. 4.81
                                     36.35                    Boat was
002602        Marvin Martin 2005     1.27          1 3,463    damaged and
                                     37.62                    totaled
TOTAL                                              $11,319.37
 
ITEM 19.
Other Business
City Manager informed the Board and public during the clean up the city will be
accepting brown and white goods at the Leonard Street site through Saturday for
disposal.
ITEM 20.
Other Comments
Alderman Childs informed the Board that the Marina Committee met in March and
asked the City Attorney to write a letter to Chairman Carl Stewart inquiring
about the City’s offer to purchase the marina. A response was received from Mr.
Eagar, Director of the N. C. State Ports in Wilmington and she asked that the
letter (s) be made an official part of the minutes for future reference. She
stated the Marina Committee believes it should continue with its determination
to acquire the marina through the legislature and if the Board has a differ
opinion, to let them know; their goal is to proceed. (Attachment #5)
Alderman Powell informed the Board of calls received due to the road
construction on NC Highway 211 and if any more road construction is done in
Southport, that be done at night the same as Charlotte, Raleigh, Durham, etc.
He stated his disappointment in the state installing concrete barrier; instead
of truck bumps.
Alderman Callari referenced a letter received from Mrs. Trudy Young about the
condition of Lowe-White Park. She stated the park was discussed during the
Board’s Retreat and the city’s goal is revitalize the park and make it a nice
park.
Alderman Fisher stated the Hospital Committee comprised of the City Manager,
Fire Chief, Public Utilities Director and himself met with the Executive
Director of Dosher hospital and they are still in negotiations on property
exchange with the hospital for a new fire station and additional parking on the
west side of Moore Street. They propose to have concrete plans within the next
month to bring back to the Board. City Attorney Isenberg explained that once
the negotiations are finalized, the Board will need to authorize a notice to
the public of what property the city proposes to exchange and the property that
will be received including the value assigned to the property. Alderman Adams
requested a description of the property including map.
Mayor Holden stated that he and the City Manager met with Mr. Tom Eager,
Director and Karen Fox, Communications Specialists with the N.C. State Ports.
They requested a meeting be scheduled with the Board of Aldermen and the State
Ports staff to discuss the proposed new port. The meeting will be set up by Ms.
Fox. Mayor stated that he is also trying to schedule a meeting with Mr. Carl
Stewart, Chairman of the State Ports, or possibly set up a meeting similar to
the platform the marina committee used to discuss the proposed new Port.
ADJOURNMENT – 9:25 p.m.
There being no further business, Alderman Childs moved to adjourn the meeting,
seconded by Alderman Brown, vote carried.
______________________________   
Presiding Alderman
Attest:
___________________________
Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
MAY 11, 2006
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
MAY 11, 2006      7:30 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
MEMBERS PRESENT:   Mary “Meezie” Childs
            Aldermen Paul Fisher, James Powell and
            Mary “Stuart” Callari
MEMBERS ABSENT:   Mayor Norman Holden
            James Brown, Mayor Pro Tempore’
            Alderman Nelson Adams
STAFF PRESENT:      Rob Gandy, City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander, City Clerk
            Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
            David Emilita, Planning Director
ITEM 1.
Call to Order
Due to Mayor Holden being on vacation and Mayor Pro Tem Brown hospitalized, the
Board of Aldermen met with a quorum and Alderman Fisher motioned to appoint
Alderman Childs to preside over the meeting in accordance with General Statute
160A-70. (In the event both the mayor and mayor pro tempore are absent from a
meeting, the council may elect from its members a temporary chairman to preside
in such absence) Motion seconded by Alderman Powell, the vote carried.
ITEM 2.
Invocation
The invocation was delivered by Alderman Fisher.
ITEM 3.
Approval of Minutes
Alderman Callari motioned to approve the regular meeting minutes of April 13,
2006, seconded by Alderman Fisher, vote carried.
ITEM 4.
Citizen Matters (Non-Agenda Items)
There were no public comments.
ITEM 5.
Public Hearing regarding adoption of updated flood plain management measures
and updated flood insurance rate maps pursuant to the requirements of the
National Flood Insurance Program.
ITEM 6.
Public Hearing on request for Conditional Use Permit by Covenant Land Group/
Cape Fear Landing for mixed use development (commercial/residential) 319 West
Bay Street.
ITEM 7.
Public Hearing on request for Conditional Use Permit by Stacy-Vukelic Greenwood
for relocation of the Babies Learning Center to 1013 N. Caswell Avenue
Alderman Powell motioned to enter Public Hearing on items 5, 6, 7, seconded by
Alderman Callari, vote carried.
There were no comments from the public during the Hearing(s).
Alderman Powell motioned to re-enter regular session, seconded by Alderman
Callari, vote carried.
Item 5. Unified Development Ordinance will be revised to incorporate changes to
the City’s Flood Prevention Ordinance and flood insurance maps which is
delegated by the North Carolina General Statutes and will clarify certain
terms, expand on definitions and will provide for procedural reviews.
Alderman Fisher motioned to approved the City’s Flood Prevention Ordinance and
resolution, seconded by Alderman Callari, vote carried.  (Ordinance and
Resolution incorporated in minutes as Attachment #1)
Item 6. Conditional Use Permit for Covenant Land Group/Cape Fear Landing to
construct a mixed use development at 319 West Bay Street. The sketch plan for
the proposed project was reviewed by the Board at the April meeting.
Alderman Fisher motioned to grant a Conditional Use Permit for Covenant Land
Group/Cape Fear Landing to construct a mixed use development at 319 West Bay,
seconded by Alderman Callari, vote carried.
Item 7.  Ms. Stacy Vukelic-Greenwood asked for a Conditional Use Permit to
relocate her business, Babies Learning Center from its present location at 705
North Lord Street to a new location at 1013 Caswell Avenue because the
Brunswick Learning Center is relocating to Bolivia. It was noted that this type
of use is not permitted in the City’s residential zoning district but is
allowable upon the issuance of a CUP. Residents of the area submitted letters
supporting the Day Care business.
Alderman Fisher motioned to grant the Conditional Use Permit, seconded by
Alderman Powell, vote carried.
ITEM 8.
Public Hearing Resolution for Contiguous Annexation (G.S. 160A-31)
Alderman Fisher motioned to adopt a resolution fixing date of Public Hearing on
a contiguous annexation pursuant to G.S. 160A-31 on June 8, 2006, 7:30 p.m.,
seconded by Alderman Callari, vote carried. (Robert & Mary Jo Willis Property –
NW corner of Howe and 12th Street)
RESOLUTION FIXING DATE OF PUBLIC HEARING ON QUESTION OF CONTIGUOUS ANNEXATION
PURSUANT TO G.S. 160A-31
WHEREAS, a petition requesting annexation of the contiguous area described
herein has been received; and
WHEREAS, the City of Southport Board of Aldermen has by resolution directed the
City Clerk to investigate the sufficiency of the petition; and
WHEREAS, certification by the City Clerk as to the sufficiency of the petition
has been made;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport, North Carolina that:
Section 1.  A public hearing on the question of annexation of the contiguous
area described herein will be held at Southport City Hall at 7:30 p.m. on June
8, 2006.
Section 2. The area proposed for annexation is described as follows:
Beginning at an iron stake at the intersection of the western right- of- way of
North Howe Street and the northern right-of- way of West 12th Street in the
City of Southport; thence along the northern right-of-way of West 12th Street,
South 68 degrees 42 minutes 58 seconds West, 129.32 feet to an iron stake;
thence North 21 degrees 17 minutes 02 seconds West, 50 feet; thence North 68
degrees 42 minutes 58 seconds East, 129.32 feet to the western right-of-way of
North Howe Street; thence along the right-of-way of North Howe Street, South 21
degrees 17 minutes 02 seconds East, 50 feet to the point and place of beginning
and being all of Lot 20, Block 4, Southport Heights.
Section 3. Notice of public hearing shall be published once in the State Port
Pilot, a newspaper having general circulation in the City of Southport at least
ten (10) days prior to the date of the public hearing.
Adopted this the 11th day of May 2006.
/s/ Meezie Childs
Presiding Chairperson
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
City Clerk
ITEM 9.
Contiguous Annexation Petition (Ray Anderson)
The Board received a contiguous annexation petition from Ray and Sharon
Anderson and Alderman Fisher motioned to authorize the Clerk to investigate the
sufficiency of same, seconded by Alderman Callari, vote carried.
ITEM 10.
Board of Adjustment Appointments
Alderman Childs stated that Alderman Brown, Chairman of this Committee was sick
and asked that these appointments be tabled until the next scheduled meeting.
ITEM 11.
Ordinance for Hire Tours
Mr. Randy Jones presented a draft ordinance to the Board for “Hire Tours”. In
explanation to the Board, it was explained over the past several years there
has been an increase in “for hire tours” being conducted in the Southport area
i.e. walking, Pedi cab, and trolley. This situation was discussed between Mr.
Jones and the City Manager in which ordinances were secured from others towns
with similar situations. Mr. Jones with directives from the City Manager
established a committee with representatives from the Maritime Museum and
Southport Historical Society to review the ordinances and assist in drafting an
ordinance for the city. Mr. Jones explained that the City Attorney reviewed the
ordinance and made some changes and recommended a Tourism Committee. This
Committee is the Director of Tourism, representatives from the Maritime Museum,
Southport Historical Society and a city council member.
Alderman Fisher stated he was not comfortable with a Committee outside of city
staff operating and executing the ordinance because it should be operated by
City staff. He recommended the approval with the change that city staff shall
enforce the Ordinance and recommended the Chief of Police and Code Enforcement
Officer.
Attorney Isenberg stated if the Police Department get involved in enforcement
and administering the ordinance, the application fee should be increased.
Alderman Fisher recommended a $30.00 application fee. After discussion, it was
the consensus of the Board that the Tourism Committee be comprised of the Chief
of Police, Code Enforcement Officer and Director of Tourism. No further
comments, Alderman Fisher motioned to adopt the ordinance with noted changes,
seconded by Alderman Powell, the vote carried.
CHAPTER 10
ARTICLE VII
ORDINANCE REGULATING “FOR-HIRE” TOURS
WHEREAS, traditionally, walking and vehicle tours have been offered by non-
profit organizations in the City of Southport and have not created problems;
and
WHEREAS, “for-profit” businesses are now offering walking and vehicle tours in
the City of Southport, and, as a result of the increase in the number of tours,
the Board of Aldermen finds it is in the best interest of the “City” to study
these types of tours and to consider any appropriate regulations with respect
to such tours; and
WHEREAS, while the matter is under study, the Board of Aldermen determines that
regulation of “for-profit” walking and vehicle tours will maintain, protect and
promote the tourist industry and the economy of the City of Southport, will
manage pedestrian and vehicle traffic on the streets and sidewalks, and will
maintain and promote the aesthetic charm and quality of life of the residents
of the City of Southport;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport as follows:
ARTICLE 1 - GENERAL
Section 10-156 Purpose and Authority
It is the purpose of this ordinance to require that all walking and vehicle
tours operated in the city for profit be licensed and regulated as set forth in
this article. This ordinance is not intended to regulate walking and vehicle
tours conducted by nonprofit organizations such as the Southport Historical
Society, the North Carolina Maritime Museum at Southport or schools.
Furthermore, the provisions of this ordinance shall not apply to tours
conducted entirely off the public streets, sidewalks, rights of way or
municipal property.
Section 10-157 Definitions
The following words, terms, and phrases when used in this ordinance shall have
the meaning described to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
“Amplifying Device” shall mean any equipment or apparatus that broadens or
magnifies the human voice, music or any sound.
“Charter Routes” shall mean the approved route of travel for any tour.
“Person” shall mean a natural person, corporation, company, partnership,
limited liability company, or other organization operating for profit.
“Public Right of Way” shall mean any street, highway, sidewalk, parking lot or
alley that is owned, controlled, maintained or operated by the “City” or State
of North Carolina.
“Tour or Touring” shall mean the conducting of or the participation in
sightseeing on foot or in a vehicle in the “City” for hire or in combination
with a request for donations.
“Tour Guide” shall mean any person who acts or offers to act as a guide for
hire or compensation through any part of the “City” to pedestrians or vehicle
passengers.
“Tour Guide Permit” shall mean the written authority granted by the Tourism
Commission for an individual to conduct a sightseeing tour on foot or by
vehicle within the “City”.
“Vehicle” shall mean bicycles, pedicabs, animal drawn or motorized vehicles
used to transport members of a sightseeing tour.
ARTICLE 2 - TOUR GUIDE PERMIT
Section 10-158 Required
No person shall offer a For Hire Tour within the corporate limits of the “City”
unless such person shall have first applied for and obtained from the Tourism
Commission a Tour Guide Permit. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate
a Tour in any manner contrary to the provisions of this article or without
first having obtained said permit.
Section 10-159 Application
Each applicant for a Tour Guide Permit shall submit in writing an Application
to the Tourism
Commission containing the following information: ( Application Forms available
at the Southport Visitors Center)
(1)   The name, address and telephone number of the owner and operator of the
business. If the applicant is a partnership, the names and addresses of the
general partners; if a corporation the names and addresses of the directors and
officers; if a limited liability company, the names and addresses of the
members and managers.
(2)   The address and phone number from which the applicant will conduct
business operations.
(3)   A description of the Charter Route to be used by the applicant including
starting point and stopping points along the route.
(The Tourism Commission may alter starting location to prevent traffic
congestion)
(4)   A description of the hours of operation of the proposed business and the
hours during which the tours will be conducted.
(5)   A detailed description of the information to be given to the members of
the Tour related to those sights to be viewed within the “City”, including a
copy of any published literature proposed to be provided by the Tour Guide to
any members of the Tour.
(6)   A statement showing that the Tour Guide has sufficient knowledge, skill
and information to conduct said Tours.
(7)   A schedule of the rates and charges proposed by the applicant in the
operation of the business.
(8)   A certificate of general liability insurance in a minimum amount of $
100,000.00 which specifically provides that the same many not be cancelled
without thirty (30) days written notice to the “City”.
(9)   Proof of City of Southport Privilege License.
(10)   Non refundable application fee of $30.00.
Section 10-160 Handicap Accessibility
(1)   All proposed Charter Routes must follow handicap accessible public rights
of way appropriate to tours where walking is utilized by a walking tour or
exiting a tour vehicle.
Section 10-161 Hearing; Approval.
(a)   Upon receipt of the complete Application for a Tour Guide Permit, the
Tourism Commission shall conduct a hearing on the application within seven (7)
business days. The applicant shall be notified of the time, date and place of
the hearing at least forty-eight (48) hours in advance of the said hearing. The
Application will be approved if the applicant shows to the satisfaction of the
Tourism Commission that:
(1)   The applicant is able and sufficiently knowledgeable about the history of
the City to perform the proposed service.
(2)   The applicant has not within three (3) years of the date of the
application been convicted of a felony or any crime of moral turpitude.
(3)   The application is complete and sufficient.
(4)   The applicant meets all of the minimum qualifications for the Tour Guide
Permit.
(5)   The applicant is solvent and financially able to furnish adequate service
on a continuing basis and have the necessary insurance required.
(6)   The proposed service will be carried out in a reasonably safe manner so
as not to interfere with the health, safety and welfare of pedestrians, motor
vehicles and the general public and the proposed Tour will not unreasonably
interfere with the use of the streets, sidewalks, parking lots, alleys, parks
and other public properties within the “City”.
(b)   Each Tour Guide Permit granted by the Tourism Commission of the City of
Southport shall include the Charter Route and specific hours of operation. The
Tourism Commission shall have the authority to set other conditions to the Tour
Guide Permit as deemed necessary in the interest of the health, welfare and
safety of the public.
In the event the Tourism Commission denies the applicant’s permit, they may
appeal said decision in writing within forty-eight (48) hours of the
notification to the City Manager.
Section 10-162 Prohibited Acts
It shall be unlawful and a violation of this ordinance and a violation of a
Tour Guide Permit for any Tour Guide or any Tour Guide Permit Holder to:
(1)   Fail to follow the approved Charter Route or move in a manner blocking
entrances to stores, homes, public parks, cemeteries or other places of
business or interfere with street traffic.
(2)   Fail to follow the lawful commands of a law enforcement officer.
(3)   Move on a sidewalk in excess of a column of two persons abreast.
(4)   Solicit members of the public verbally while such member of the public is
on any public street, public sidewalk or public property.
(5)   Operate an Amplifying Device during the course of the Tour without
specific written Tourism Commission approval.
(6)   Fail to comply with all the conditions of the Tour Guide Permit
(7)   Place a permanent sign in a public space to promote the business.
( a temporary sign may be placed one (1) hour before operating hours of the
tour, within one (1) block of the starting location of tour and must be removed
at the end of operating hours if the tour originates on public property
approved by the Tourism Commission )
Section 10-163 Revocation.
The Tourism Commission may revoke a Tour Guide Permit after a hearing conducted
with forty-eight (48) hours notice to the permit holder upon the following
grounds:
(1)   A violation of the terms and conditions of this ordinance or the
conditions of the Tour Guide Permit.
(2)   Upon determining that false information was given on the Application for
a Tour Guide Permit.
(3)   The cancellation or revocation of the Tour Guide Permit Holder’s
liability insurance coverage
(4)   The business closing of the holder of a Tour Guide Permit.
(5)   Conviction of a felony or crime involving the moral turpitude by a Tour
Guide or permit holder.
Section 10-164 Transfer.
The Tour Guide Permit issued pursuant to this article shall not be transferred
by the permit holder except with the prior written permission and approval of
the Tourism Commission.
Section 10-165 Violations
In addition to revocation of a Tour Guide Permit, the violation of any of the
provisions of the ordinance shall subject the offender to a civil penalty in
the amount of $50.00 per violation to be collected by the “City” in the nature
of a debt. Each day a continuing violation shall be deemed a separate
violation.
Section 10-166 Exemptions
Exempt from this ordinance are walking and vehicle tours conducted by non-
profit organizations such as the Southport Historical Society, The North
Carolina Maritime Museum at Southport and schools. Exempt, non-profit
organizations are expected to be guided by this ordinance in all matters
related to health and safety, right of way and public access concerns.
ARTICLE 3 - TOURISM COMMISSION
Section 10-167 Tourism Commission
A Tourism Commission is hereby established to study issues relating to For-Hire
Tours within the City of Southport, to make recommendations after a review and
study and to execute this Ordinance Regulating For-Hire Tours on behalf of the
Board of Aldermen. The Tourism Commission shall consist of three (3) members
and shall include the Director of Tourism for the City of Southport, the Chief
of Police of Southport and the Code Enforcement Officer for the City of
Southport. The administrative activities of the Tourism Commission will be
placed with the Department of Tourism for the City of Southport. The Tourism
Commission will report to the Board of Alderman and make recommendations when
necessary related to the ordinance.
This ordinance is effective upon its adoption this 5th day of May 2006.
S/Mary “Meezie” Childs, Presiding
Alderman
Attest:
S/Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
ITEM 12.
Dosher Hospital Property Exchange
Alderman Fisher having worked on the property exchange between Dosher Hospital
and the City stated that they had come to a mutual agreement on the exchange.
He motioned that the Board of Alderman approve the notice of its intention to
authorize the exchange of property with Dosher Memorial Hospital, seconded by
Alderman Powell, the vote carried
Public Notice
Pursuant to North Carolina General Statute 160A-72, the Board of Aldermen of
the City of Southport hereby states its intention to authorize the exchange of
certain city owned real property for certain real property owned by Smithville
Township’s J. Arthur Dosher Memorial Hospital.
The exchange involves the following tracts of land:
The City of Southport’s land is 0.563 acres located at the northeast corner of
Howe Street and Fodale Avenue. This tract lies to the west of the old city
garage building. This tract is part of tax parcel 237DC023 and this tract is
valued at $105,562.
The land to be acquired by the City from Dosher Hospital is 1.41 acres located
at the northwest corner of Howe Street and 10th Street with 66 feet frontage on
Lord Street. This tract consists of tax parcels 237DC015, 237DC017 and
237DC019. This land is valued at $359,570.
In addition to the exchange of these properties, the City of Southport will pay
the sum of $187,500 to Dosher Hospital.
All persons interested in making this exchange are invited to attend the
meeting of the Southport Board of Aldermen to be held in the Aldermen’s
Chambers, Southport City Hall, 201 E. Moore Street, Southport, NC at 7:30 p.m.
on June 8, 2006. At that time the Board intends to authorize the exchange of
the properties described above.
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
ITEM 13.
Sketch Plan Review-Mixed Use Development, Walter Knott & Jeff Ward
Mr. Walter Knott and Jeff Ward presented a sketch plan to the Board for review
and recommendations for mixed use development in the downtown area for the old
Leggett building. It was explained that the Planning Board has already reviewed
the sketch and made several suggestions which have been incorporated. Board
members looked at the sketch plan and comments were favorable. Mr. Emilita
stated the sketch plan will be sent back to the Planning Board and if their
ruling is favorable, the next step is to apply for a Conditional Use Permit.
ITEM 14.
ABC Board Appointment
Mr. Gandy told the Board that a letter was received from Mr. Robert Jones
wishing to be reappointed to the ABC Board. His term will expire July 31, 2006.
Alderman Fisher motioned, seconded by Alderman Powell to reappoint Mr. Robert
Jones to the ABC Board, the vote carried.
ITEM 15.
Brunswick County Clean Up Program
The Board acknowledged a request from Code Enforcement Officer Charles Drew
asking for authorization to participate in the County’s Cleanup program to have
a dilapidated mobile home removed from Steven’s Park on West 9th Street, and a
dilapidated mobile home from 1221 ½ North Atlantic Avenue. Alderman Fisher
motioned to approve the request, seconded by Alderman Powell, vote carried.
ITEM 16.
Proclamation – Motorcycle Safety Awareness Month
Alderman Callari motioned to adopt a proclamation declaring the month of May
2006 as Motorcycle Awareness Month, seconded by Alderman Fisher, vote carried.
ITEM 17.
Tax Releases
Alderman Fisher motioned to approve the following tax release upon
recommendation of the Tax Collector, seconded by Alderman Callari, vote
carried.
      Acct #      Amount Released   Value Released   Reason
Boat Clinic   40140395   $12.24         4,315         Boat sold 2004
ITEM 18.
Other Business
City Manager Gandy briefed the Board on the City’s first wellness Health Fair
which was well attended by employees and he commended the Wellness Committee
for an outstanding job. He stated that the health fair will give the city bonus
points to help keep the insurance cost down.
Clean Water Trust Fund Grant: Alderman Fisher motioned that Bob Grant, Public
Utilities Director and Rob Gandy, City Manager be authorized and directed to
take all action necessary to complete the City’s application for and to secure
the grant from Clean Water Trust Fund for acquisition of the sewer spray field
site from Cameron Company, LLC and that all prior actions by said persons on
behalf of the City of Southport be ratified and confirmed by the Board of
Aldermen and either of said persons are hereby authorized to sign all documents
required in connection with the acquisition of said grant and the City of
Southport hereby accepts said grant according to its terms. The motion was
seconded by Alderman Powell and the vote of approval was unanimous.
North Carolina Electricities Municipal Power Agency: Alderman Fisher briefed
the Board on a meeting and stated will be refinanced and a savings of $5
million should be realized over the next 5 years.
Alderman Fisher stated that he received a letter from Senator Soles dated April
18, 2006 and the letter asked if there were any local issues requiring
legislative actions and if there were, to bring them to his attention before
May 17. He stated he responded by asking Senator Soles to assist the City Parks
and Recreation Department to relocate the 55 and Over Club, picnic and other
facilities by securing a $50,000 grant. He inadvertently signed the letter as
Chairman of the Parks & Recreation Committee. In order for the request to be
considered, Senator Soles needs a resolution from the Board of Aldermen since
his request was considered personal. Alderman Fisher stated he spoke with
Alderman Brown and Adams (via telephone) and they concurred with the resolution
if funds can be acquired to help the City. Alderman Fisher motioned to
authorize the City Manager to prepare a resolution requesting a $50,000 grant
to relocate the 55 & Over Club at Steven’s park and to forward same to Senator
R. C. Soles. Alderman Callari seconded the motion; the vote of approval was
unanimous.
Resolution
WHEREAS, for many years, the citizens of Southport and surrounding communities
have enjoyed the use of Stevens Park for a wide array of recreational
activities; and
WHEREAS, for many years this park was leased from the Harper Family, but
recently the property was sold and therefore the City of Southport must
relocate part of our recreational facilities to City owned property; and
WHEREAS, one critical facility that we have to move is the 55 and Over club, a
club that has always maintained its membership at the maximum the facility will
accommodate (100) members and;
WHEREAS, to move the 55 and Over Club, picnic and other facilities, it is
estimated to cost approximately $50,000.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the City of Southport Board of Aldermen
respectfully requests your efforts in securing a $50,000 grant to assist the
City of Southport in this critical venture.
DULY RESOLVED, this the 11th day of May 2006.
/s/ Mary Childs
Presiding Chairperson
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
ITEM 19.
Other Comments
Veterans: City Manager Gandy informed the Board that a veterans group will be
cycling across the state and on the morning of May 22nd they will arrive on the
Southport side around 10:30 a.m. and the City may need to help with traffic
control. Alderman Fisher encouraged support for these veterans.
Sickness: Alderman Callari and Board members expressed best wishes to Alderman
Brown on a speedy recovery. Alderman Fisher stated Alderman Callari had recent
eye surgery and thanked her for attending the meeting.
ITEM 20.
Adjournment – 8:10 P.M.
There being no other business, the meeting was adjourned upon motion of
Alderman Callari, seconded by Alderman Powell, vote carried.
S/ Mary Childs, Presiding Alderman
S/ Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
JUNE 14, 2006
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
JUNE 14, 2006     7:30 P.M.
ALDERMAN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
MEMBERS PRESENT:   Norman R. Holden, Mayor
            Aldermen Nelson Adams, Mary “Meezie” Childs,
            James Brown, Mary “Stuart” Callari, James Powell
MEMBERS ABSENT:   Paul Fisher
STAFF PRESENT:      Rob Gandy, City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander, Clerk
            David Emilita, Planning Director
            Jerry Dove, Chief of Police
STAFF ABSENT:      Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
ITEM 1.
Call to Order
Mayor Holden called the meeting to order at 7:35 p.m.
ITEM 2.
Invocation
The invocation was delivered by Alderman Brown.
ITEM 3.
Approval of Minutes
Alderman Powell motioned to approve the regular meeting minutes of May 11,
2006, seconded by Alderman Callari. All voted in favor.
ITEM 4.
Citizen Matters (Non-Agenda Items)
There were no petitions from the floor.
ITEM 5.
Administrative Matters
Public Hearing on request by Robert and Mary Jo Willis for contiguous
annexation of property located at the North East corner of 12th and How Streets
pursuant to G.S. 160A-31.
Alderman Callari motioned to enter public hearing, seconded by Alderman Childs.
There being no public comments on the request for contiguous annexation,
Alderman Childs motioned to close the public hearing and re-enter regular
session. Alderman Powell seconded the motion. Vote carried.
Alderman Brown motioned to approve the “ordinance for contiguous annexation”
seconded by Alderman Powell, vote carried.
AN ORDINANCE TO EXTEND THE CORPORATE LIMITS OF THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT, NORTH
CAROLINA
WHEREAS, the City of Southport has been petitioned under G.S. 160A-31 to annex
the area described below; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen has by resolution directed the City Clerk to
investigate the sufficiency of the petition; and
WHEREAS, the City Clerk has certified the sufficiency of the petition and a
public hearing on the question of this annexation was held at Southport City
Hall at 7:30 p.m. on June 14, 2006, after due notice by publication in the
State Port Pilot on May 31 and June 7, 2006;
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen finds that the petition meets the requirements
of G.S. 160A-31;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of Southport, North
Carolina that:
Section 1. By virtue of the authority granted by G.S. 160A-31, the following
described territory is hereby annexed and made part of the City of Southport
effective immediately
EXHIBIT A
Beginning at an iron stake at the intersection of the western right- of- way of
North Howe Street and the northern right-of- way of West 12th Street in the
City of Southport; thence along the northern right-of-way of West 12th Street,
South 68 degrees 42 minutes 58 seconds West, 129.32 feet to an iron stake;
thence North 21 degrees 17 minutes 02 seconds West, 50 feet; thence North 68
degrees 42 minutes 58 seconds East, 129.32 feet to the western right-of-way of
North Howe Street; thence along the right-of-way of North Howe Street, South 21
degrees 17 minutes 02 seconds East, 50 feet to the point and place of beginning
and being all of Lot 20, Block 4, Southport Heights.
This being the same property as shown on a plat entitled “Area Annexed by the
City of Southport N.C. on June 14, 2006 recorded in Map Cabinet ____ at Page
____ of the Brunswick County Registry.
Section 2. Upon and after June 14, 2006 the above described territory and its
citizens and property shall be subject to all debts, laws, ordinances and
regulations in force in the City of Southport and shall be entitled to the same
privileges and benefits as other parts of the City of Southport. Said territory
shall be subject to municipal taxes according to G.S. 160A-58.10.
Section 3.  The Mayor of the City of Southport shall cause to be recorded in
the office of the Register of Deeds of Brunswick County, and in the office of
the Secretary of State at Raleigh, North Carolina, an accurate map of the
annexed territory, described in Section 1 above, together with a duly certified
copy of this ordinance. Such a map shall also be delivered to the County Board
of Elections, as required by G. S. 163-288.1.
ADOPTED, this the 14th day of June 2006.
S/ Norman R. Holden
Mayor
ATTEST:
S/Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
ITEM 6.
Public Hearing pursuant to G.S. 160A-59.24 on the question of approving an
annexation agreement with the Town of St. James allowing the City of Southport
to annex and prohibiting the Town of St. James from annexing certain property
City Manager Gandy explained that this lot is an out parcel located in front of
Lowe’s Home Improvement. The statute governing this type of annexation states
the city with the closest proximity has priority over annexation. After review
through the county’s GIS system, it was determined that the property is closer
to the Town of St. James corporate city limits. The City of Southport was
petitioned and in order for it to go forth an ordinance establishing an
annexation agreement between the Town of St. James and the City of Southport
must be approved. It was explained that state law allows governments with a
common cause to work together to resolve such issues.
Alderman Childs motioned to approve the “An Ordinance Establishing an
Annexation Agreement between the Town of St. James and the City of Southport.”
Alderman Powell seconded the motion and the vote of approval was unanimous.
(Ordinance Incorporated as Attachment #1)
ITEM 7.
Review of Resolution fixing date of Public Hearing on question of contiguous
annexation pursuant to G. S. 160A-31 (Ray Anderson)
Alderman Callari motioned to approve the resolution fixing the date of Public
Hearing on the question of contiguous annexation pursuant to G.S. 160A-31.
Motion seconded by Alderman Childs, vote carried.
RESOLUTION FIXING DATE OF PUBLIC HEARING ON QUESTION OF CONTIGUOUS ANNEXATION
PURSUANT TO G.S. 160A-31
WHEREAS, a petition requesting annexation of the contiguous area described
herein has been received; and
WHEREAS, the City of Southport Board of Aldermen has by resolution directed the
City Clerk to investigate the sufficiency of the petition; and
WHEREAS, certification by the City Clerk as to the sufficiency of the petition
has been made;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport, North Carolina that:
Section 1.  A public hearing on the question of annexation of the contiguous
area described herein will be held at Southport City Hall at 7:30 p.m. on July
13, 2006.
Section 2. The area proposed for annexation is described as follows:
Lot 2
Beginning at an existing iron pipe at the r/w line of Yaupon Ave., where it
intersects with the r/w line of Park Ave. Ext. thence with the r/w line of
Yaupon Ave, N-10-W, 131.47’ to an existing iron pipe. Thence a chord bearing
and distance N 16-47-18 W, 40.88’ to an iron stake set also being the point of
beginning. Thence, a chord bearing and distance of N 28-08-21 W, 60.61’ to an
existing iron pipe. Thence a chord bearing and distance of N 42-02-57 W,
63.68’ to an existing iron pipe. Thence N 07-37-58 E, 121.95’ to an iron stake
set. Thence, S 73-35-35 E, 129.21’ to a point. Thence, S 01-09-47 E, 151.23’ to
a point. Thence N 84-41-08 W, 45.66’ to an iron stake set. Thence, S 27-10-22
W, 40.20’. Thence, S 73-44-07 W, 8.48’ to the point of beginning. Being all of
’’Lot’ 2 and containing 22099.9 sq. ft., 0.51 acres
Lot 3
Beginning at an existing iron pipe at the r/w line of Yaupon Ave., where it
intersects with the r/w line of Park Ave. Ext. Thence with the r/w line of
Yaupon Ave, N-10-W, 131.47’ to an existing iron pipe. Thence a chord bearing
and distance N 16-47-18 W, 40.88’ to an iron stake set. Thence, a chord bearing
and distance of N 28-08-21 W, 60.61’ to an existing iron pipe. Thence a chord
bearing and distance of N 42-02-57 W, 63.68’ to an existing iron pipe. Thence N
07-37-58 E, 121.95 to an iron stake set also being the point of beginning.
Thence, N 07-37-58 E, 139.67’ to an existing concrete monument. Thence S 74-45-
47 E, 297.26’ to an existing iron pipe. Thence, S 18-25-35 W, 144.19’ to an
existing iron pipe. Thence, S 01-09-47 E, 178’ to an existing iron pipe.
Thence, S 69-56-46 E, 43.54’ to an existing iron pipe. Thence a chord bearing
and distance of S 65-39-02 W, 71.18’ to an existing iron pipe. Thence, S-59-55-
58 W, 13.29’ to an iron stake set. Thence, N 69-56-46 W, 25.24’ to an iron
stake set. Thence, N 01-09-47 W, 101.30’ to a point. Thence, N 84-41-08 W,
73.48’ to a point. Thence, N 01-09-47 W, 151.23’ to a point. Thence, N 73-35-35
W, 129.21’ to the point of beginning. Being all of Lot 3 and containing 65641.8
sq. ft., 1.5 acres.
Section 3. Notice of public hearing shall be published once in the State Port
Pilot, a newspaper having general circulation in the City of Southport at least
ten (10) days prior to the date of the public hearing.
Adopted this the 14th day of June 2006.
S/Norman R. Holden
Mayor
ATTEST:
S/Regina W. Alexander, CMC, City Clerk
ITEM 8.
Contiguous Annexation Petition (Glen Richardson)
The Board approved an annexation petition request from Mr. Glen Richardson
requesting contiguous annexation pursuant to G. S. 160A-31 upon motion of
Alderman Callari, seconded by Alderman Childs, vote carried. (Property that was
formally Roses and Wilson’s)
Mayor asked Mr. Richardson and staff to determine if the old Kerr Drug Store
building is part of this parcel. City Manager Gandy stated that it is not and
still under other ownership. Mr. Richardson stated he has inquired about the
property.
ITEM 9.
Executive Session Minutes
City Manager Gandy presented to the Board at the request of the City Clerk that
five (5) sets of sealed minutes be opened and placed in the minute book. He
explained state law provides for minutes to be unsealed when public inspection
no longer frustrates the purpose of the closed session. All matters pertaining
to the executive session minutes have been settled. Alderman Brown motioned,
seconded by Alderman Adams to unseal the closed session minutes from June 20,
2004 (Fire Department Land Acquisition), October 14, 2004 (Cameron Property),
November 18, 2004 (Spray field), December 8, 2005 (Marina), and March 9, 2006
(Property acquisition – spray field) and place in the official minute book. The
vote of approval was unanimous.
ITEM 10.
Review and approval of resolution establishing procedures for handling closed
session minutes
A resolution was presented to the Board for consideration establishing
procedures to handle closed session minutes rather than presenting them to the
Board each time. Alderman Childs motioned to adopt the following resolution,
seconded by Alderman Brown, vote carried.
Resolution
Establishing Procedures for Handling
Closed Session Minutes
WHEREAS, General Statute 143-318.10(e) provides that every public body shall
keep full and accurate minutes of all official meetings, including any closed
sessions held pursuant to General Statute 143-318.11; and
WHEREAS, General Statute 143-318.10(e) provides that minutes of a closed
session conducted by a public body in compliance with General Statute 143-
318.11 may be withheld from public inspection so long as public inspection
would frustrate the purpose of a closed session;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport that pursuant to General Statute 143-318.10(e), all closed session
minutes are to be sealed against public inspection immediately upon
preparation; and that said sealed minutes shall be presented for approval to
the Board of Aldermen following their preparation; likewise, any revisions
deemed necessary by the Board shall also be sealed against public inspection.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that all sealed minutes shall be reviewed whenever
deemed appropriate by the City Clerk, Manager and Attorney, who shall by
majority opinion be empowered to unseal and release for public inspection any
closed session minutes for which so doing would no longer frustrate the purpose
of having met in closed session.
Adopted this the 14 day of June 2006.
S/Norman R. Holden
Mayor
Attest:
S/Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
ITEM 11.
Review and award of bid for new fire truck pumper
Chief Cumbee stated during his presentation at the Board’s retreat (2006) one
of the items discussed was the purchase of a new pumper to replace the outdated
1973 Howe pumper that will be placed in reserve at the end of this year. The
bid was advertised and only one bid was received, therefore it was re-
advertised. One (1) bid was received from Central States Fire Apparatus (a
division of Rosen Bauer America) in the amount of $264,886.00. The county has
approved funds for this new pumper to be channeled through the fire tax monies
received from the fire district. Chief Cumbee recommended that the bid be
awarded to Central States Fire Apparatus in the amount of $264,886. Alderman
Callari motioned to award the bid in the amount of $264,886 to Central States
Fire Apparatus; motion seconded by Alderman Powell, the vote of approval was
unanimous.
ITEM 12.
Review and approval of yearly contract for auditing services between the City
of Southport and Brock, Berry, Padgett and Chandler, PLLC
City Manager Gandy stated that the contract was reviewed by he and the Finance
Director and the slight increase is a result of the GASBY Act and auditing of
the Clean Water Management and Trust Fund Grant which will have to be audited
separately. Alderman Childs motioned to approve the audit contract for year end
June 30, 2006 with Brock, Berry, Padgett and Chandler, PLLC in the amount of
$29,000. Motion seconded by Alderman Brown, the vote was unanimous. Mayor
Holden asked about the date of the audit and the timeliness of it being
prepared. City Manager Gandy stated the audit was presented earlier this past
year and they are ready to begin. Some preliminary work has already been done.
Motion to approve the contract by Alderman Childs, seconded by Alderman Brown,
vote carried. (Copy of contract incorporated as Attachment #2)
ITEM 13.
Board of Adjustment Appointments
Alderman Brown, Chairperson of the Committee thanked Alderman Powell and Childs
for serving on the Committee. The following individuals were recommended for
the Board of Adjustment:
Robert Plassman   3 years      James Kefalonitis      3 years
Peter Wyckoff      3 years      Richard Boguskie      2 years
John Hamilton      3 years      Larry Coble (Alternate)   1 year
Recommendation to the County Commissioners to appoint 2 members and 1 alternate
from the ETJ:
Davy Herring - 3 years
Chris Maynor - 3 years
Dr. Jo Pat Hatem (Alternate) 1 year
Alderman Brown extended special thanks to citizens willing to serve on the
boards and committees for the City.
Alderman Powell motioned to accept recommendations from the Board of Adjustment
Committee and suggested that Robert Plassman be considered for Chairman. City
Manager Gandy stated that the Board of Adjustment in accordance with state law
appoints their own chairman but will convey the wishes of the Board to staff.
Motion seconded by Alderman Callari. Discussion: Alderman Adams asked that the
nominees from within the corporate city limits be voted on first. Alderman
Callari motioned to appoint Mr. Plassman, Wyckoff, Hamilton, Kefalonitis,
Boguskie and Coble, seconded by Alderman Powell. The votes were: 4 ayes-
Aldermen Callari, Powell, Childs, and Brown. 1 no vote, Alderman Adams. Motion
passed 4 to 1.
Alderman Childs requested to be excused from voting. Motion by Alderman
Callari, seconded by Alderman Adams, vote carried.
The Board proceeded to vote on the recommended individuals from the ETJ (Davy
Herring, Chris Maynor and Dr. Joe Pat Hatem-alternate. Motion by Alderman
Brown, seconded by Alderman Callari, vote carried. (Affirmative votes were:
Adams, Brown, Callari and Powell)
Alderman Adams motioned that Alderman Childs be reseated as a voting member,
seconded by Alderman Brown, vote carried.
ITEM 14.
Public Hearing on Budget FY 06-07
Alderman Childs motioned, seconded by Alderman Powell to schedule the Public
Hearing and work session on the proposed budget 6:30 p.m. June 27. Vote
carried.
ITEM 15.
Budget Amendments
City Manager Gandy explained the budget amendments are year end
reclassifications which do not increase the budget and #20 is the Clean Water
Management Trust fund grant.
Alderman Brown motioned to approve budget amendments #16-20, seconded by
Alderman Powell, the vote carried.
Budget Amendment #16
Fiscal Year 2005-2006
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session June 15, 2006 that the following Budget Amendment
be adopted for funding fiscal year-end line item budget reclassifications with
reimbursements revenues from Hurricane Ophelia.
General Fund
Section I
A.   Revenues Anticipated
      Reimbursement From
         Hurricane Oph65,425           65,425
                               Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
         Board        (32,500)         215,997
         Administratio(12,400)         435,806
         Buildings & G(30,225)         336,471.50
         City Garage  2,500            173,083
         Police       40,300           775,879.32
         Code Enforcem(500)            225,695
         Rescue       (13,000)         151,377
         Street       (12,100)         216,690
         Solid Waste  (9,000)          104,400
         Cemetery     5,250            3,250
         Parks & Recre(3,550)          268,678
         Tourism      (200)            179,526
               T(65,425)
 
ADOPTED this the 15th day of June, 2006
S/Mayor Norman R. Holden
Attest:
S/Regina W. Alexander, Clerk
Budget Amendment #17
Fiscal Year 2005-2006
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session June 15, 2006 that the following Budget Amendment
be adopted for reporting fiscal year-end line item budget reclassifications as
listed below. There will be no change in the total Electric Fund Budget.
 
Electric Fund
                               Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section IV
C.   Appropriated Expenditures
      Operations & Mainte0.00e            5,439,577.00
            Total  0.00
 
ADOPTED this the 15th day of June, 2006
S/Norman R. Holden, Mayor
Attest:
S/Regina W. Alexander, Clerk
Budget Amendment #18
Fiscal Year 2005-2006
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session June 15, 2006 that the following Budget Amendment
be adopted for reporting fiscal year-end line item budget reclassifications as
listed below. There will be no change in the total Water Sewer Fund Budget.
 
Water/Sewer Fund
                               Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section V
D.   Appropriated Expenditures
      Operations & Mainte0.00e            2,237,540.00
            Total  0.00
 
ADOPTED this the 15th day of June, 2006
S/Mayor Norman R. Holden
Attest:
S/Regina W. Alexander, Clerk
Budget Amendment #19
Fiscal Year 2005-2006
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session June 15, 2006 that the following Budget Amendment
be adopted for reporting fiscal year-end line item budget reclassifications as
listed below. There will be no change in the total Powell Bill Fund Budget.
 
Powell Bill Fund
                               Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section V
E.   Appropriated Expenditures
      Operations & Mainte0.00e            104,200
            Total  0.00
 
ADOPTED this the 15th day of June, 2006
S/Mayor Norman R. Holden
Attest:
S/Regina W. Alexander, Clerk
Budget Amendment #20
Fiscal Year 2005-2006
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session June 15, 2006 that the following Budget Amendment
be adopted for funding Capital Land Purchase from grant revenues received from
Clearwater Management Trust Fund.
Water/Sewer Fund
                                                            Budget    Budget As
                                                            Amendment Amended
Section V
A.   Appropriation of Revenues
      Grant Proceeds from Clean water Management Trust1,686,000 4,340,733
      Capital Fund Balance                            417,193
F.   Appropriated Expenditures
      Capital Land Purchase (Cameron Property)        1,942,415
      Capital Land Purchase (Swain Property)          160,778   4,340,733
 
ADOPTED this the 15th day of June, 2006
S/Mayor Norman R. Holden
Attest:
Regina W. Alexander, Clerk
ITEM 16.
Tax Releases
Alderman Childs motioned to approve recommended tax releases, motion was
seconded by Alderman Powell, vote carried.
Bill/Parcel Name/Account    Date     Amt Released Value Released Reason for
Number                                                           Release
002599      Charles Mahoney 6/1/06   306.08       107,200        Boat billed
                            2005 tax                             twice in error
002630      Redbone Inc.    2005 tax 1.13         394            Boat Damaged
002631      Redbone Inc.    2005 tax 5.40         1890           Boat damaged
002514      Sheila Barbee   2005 tax 5.06         1764           Boat sold 2004
04899       Mary K Smith    2004 tax 13.28        3840           Boat damaged
002640      Mary K Smith    2006 tax 12.41        4345           Boat damaged
238IB032    Kathy White     2004 tax 117.39       39,130         Incorrect
                                                                 Measurement
238032      Kathy White     2005 tax 105.65       39,130         Incorrect
                                                                 Measurement
TOTAL                                566.40
 
ITEM 17.
Other Business
Alderman Adams asked that the Board adopt a resolution supporting the new
international state port. Mayor Holden stated that he was assured by Karen Fox,
Communications Director that she will be faxing to the City a copy of the
resolution that they are asking for which will be sent to all of Southeastern
North Carolina.
ITEM 18.
Other Comments
Alderman Callari proposed that the Planning Board and the Board of Adjustment
meet jointly with the Aldermen to discuss their respective duties. Alderman
Brown stated he would like to have a representative from the League of
Municipalities come down and meet with the Board of Adjustment to review with
them their statutory duties since there are several new members. City Manager
Gandy stated he and the Director of Planning have discussed this and they are
in the process of getting someone from the League or the Institute of
Government to conduct a workshop with members of the Board of Adjustment. He
proposed that after this is done, then a joint meeting of the Planning Board,
Board of Adjustment and Aldermen be held.
ITEM 19.
Adjournment – 8:15 p.m.
No further business, Alderman Childs motioned to adjourn, seconded by Alderman
Brown, vote carried.
____________________________________
Norman R. Holden, Mayor
_________________________________
Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
JUNE 27, 2006
BUDGET HEARING/WORKSHOP
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN BUDGET HEARING/WORKSHOP
JUNE 27, 2006     6:30 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, N. C.
 
MEMBERS PRESENT:   Norman R. Holden, Mayor
            Aldermen James Brown, Nelson Adams, Mary “Meezie”
            Childs, James Powell, Mary “Stuart”Callari
MEMBERS ABSENT:   Paul Fisher
STAFF PRESENT:      Rob Gandy, City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander-CMC, City Clerk
            Patty Miller, Finance Director
            Robert Grant, Public Utilities Director
            J. V. Dove, Chief of Police
Mayor Holden called the meeting to order at 6:34 p.m.
ITEM 1.
BUDGET AMENDMENTS
City Manager Gandy presented the following budget amendments and informed the
Board that these are year end line item adjustments.
Motion by Alderman Childs to approve, seconded by Alderman Brown, the vote was
unanimous.
Budget Amendment #21
Fiscal Year 2005-2006
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in Public Hearing on June 27, 2006 that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for re-budgeting departmental line items within the fund.
There will be no change in the total fund budget.
General Fund
Section I
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
         Administratio0.00   435,806
         Police       7100   735,579
         Fire Departme0.00   333,212
         Code Enforcem0.00   225,695
         Rescue       (7100) 158,477
         Street       0.00   216,690
         Parks & Recre0.00n  268,678
         Tourism      0.00   179,526
               T0.00
 
ADOPTED this the 27th day of June, 2006
S/Mayor Norman R. Holden
Attest:
S/Regina W. Alexander, Clerk
Budget Amendment #22
Fiscal Year 2005-2006
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in Public Hearing on June 27, 2006 that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for re-budgeting departmental line items within the fund.
There will be no change in the total fund budget.
 
Electric Fund
Section IV                       Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
         Operating & Mai0.00ance         5,439,577
 
ADOPTED this the 27th day of June, 2006
S/Mayor Norman R. Holden
Attest:
S/Regina W. Alexander, Clerk
Budget Amendment #23
Fiscal Year 2005-2006
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in Public Hearing on June 27, 2006 that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for re-budgeting departmental line items within the fund.
There will be no change in the total fund budget.
 
Water/Sewer Fund
Section IV                     Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
      Operating & Mainten0.00             4,340.733
 
ADOPTED this the 27th day of June, 2006
S/Mayor Norman R. Holden
Attest:
S/Regina W. Alexander, Clerk
ITEM 2.
PUBLIC HEARING
Alderman Childs moved to enter public hearing on the proposed fiscal year 06-07
budget, seconded by Alderman Powell, vote carried.
There were no public comments on the budget.
Motion was made by Alderman Childs, seconded by Alderman Callari to re-enter
regular session, vote carried.
ITEM. 4
BUDGET DISCUSSION
Mayor Holden and Board members commended the City Manager and staff on a great
job in formulating the budget and maintaining a $.27 tax rate.
Alderman Adams recommended that the $15,000 budgeted in Parks and Recreation to
relocate the 55 and Over Club House be moved to the contingency fund until the
City knows whether or not it will receive a $50,000 grant that has been
requested from Senator Soles. City Manager Gandy stated he will add the monies
back to the contingency and before expenditure is made, it will be presented to
the Board for approval. Alderman Adams asked about streets and sidewalk repair.
Mr. Grant stated funds are budgeted for resurfacing and sidewalks which comes
out of the same line item.
There was no further discussion on the budget.
ITEM 5.
BUDGET ADOPTION FY 06-07
Alderman Childs motioned to adopt the budget and budget ordinance for fiscal
year 06-07, seconded by Alderman Callari, the vote of approval was unanimous.
BUDGET ORDINANCE
FISCAL YEAR 2006-2007
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, in Board
assembled in Special Session on June 27, 2006 that the following revenues and
expenditures, together with certain restrictions, fees, charges and
authorizations, are adopted.
SECTION I
GENERAL FUND
   A.   Revenues Anticipated
      Current Ad Valorem Taxes (2006)  1,093,431
      Prior Years Ad Valorem Taxes/Pena39,000
      Motor Vehicle Property Taxes     75,000
      Local revenues                   707,985
      Accommodation Tax                13,616
      ABC Distribution                 170,783
      State Shared Revenues/Grants/Refu952,980
      Inter-fund reimbursements        53,320
      Fire District Fees               325,000
      Appropriated Fund Balance        100,000
                                             3,531,115
   B.   Appropriated Expenditures
      Board                            244,369
      Administration                   440,661
      Building & Grounds               326,215
      Garage                           175,926
      Police                           799,249
      Fire                             330,432
      Code Enforcement                 248,344
      Rescue                           103,072
      Street                           273,361
      Cemeteries                       8,500
      Recreation                       325,346
      Tourism                          148,030
      Solid Waste                      107,610
                                             3,531,115
SECTION II
POWELL BILL
A.   Revenues Anticipated
   Powell Bill State Street Aid           101,423
   Interest Earned                        2,027
   Appropriated Fund Balance              20,000
                                             123,450
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
   Operation & Maintenance                123,450
                                             123,450
SECTION III
SOUTHPORT FIREMEN FUND
A.   Revenues Anticipated
   Southport Firemen Fund Receipts        18,060
                                             18,060
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
   Southport Firemen Fund Expenses        18,060
                                             18,060
SECTION IV
ELECTRIC FUND
A.   Revenues Anticipated
   Sale of Electricity                    5,370,694
   Service Charge & Other Revenues        706,619
   Appropriated Fund Balance              700,000
                                             6,777,313
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
   Operation & Maintenance                6,777,313
                                             6,777,313
SECTION V
WATER & SEWER FUND
A.   Revenues Anticipated
   Water/Sewer Sales                      1,457,370
   Other Revenues                         775,000
   Appropriated Fund Balance              835,577
                                             3,067,947
B.   Expenditures Authorized
   Operation & Maintenance                2,148,549
   Capital Projects                       919,398
                                             3,067,947
GRAND TOTAL                                  $13,517,885
 
SECTION VII
TAX RATE ESTABLISHED
An Ad Valorem rate of twenty-seven (.27) cents per $100.00 full valuation is
hereby established as the official tax rate for the City of Southport for the
fiscal year 2006-2007. This is based on an estimated valuation of approximately
$411,852,515 with an estimated collection rate of ninety-eight and one third
percent (98.33%).
SECTION VIII
NEW OR REVISED FEE CHARGES
A.    WATER RATES
See Attachment “A”
B. WATER IMPACT FEES
See Attachment “B”
C.   SEWER RATES
See Attachment “C”
D.   WASTEWATER ALLOCATION POLICY & IMPACT FEES
See Attachment “D”
E.   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN & FEE SCHEDULE
See Attachment “E”
F.   PLANNING & ZONING FEE SCHEDULE
See Attachment “F”
SECTION IX
TRAVEL REIMBURSEMENT POLICY
It is the policy of the City of Southport to reimburse employees for work
related out of town travel. Mileage will be reimbursed for private vehicle use,
when properly authorized, at a rate of .44 ½ cents per mile.
Meals will be reimbursed when necessary to be out of town on business at:
A.   Per diem rate of $45.00 per day without receipts, ($8.00 breakfast, $12.00
lunch, $25.00 dinner), or
B.   The actual cost of meals, including tips, will be paid by the City
provided receipts for such meals are submitted.
Either of these methods may be used, however, only one of the methods may be
used during a business trip not a combination of the two. Everyone is expected
to eat meals he/she would normally eat.
All lodging costs will be paid at the host facility or next closest facility
available. Other costs for seminars, meetings, conferences and programs,
including registration, taxi, baggage handling, etc. incurred as part of the
normal travel will be paid by the City.
SECTION X
SPECIAL AUTHORIZATION - BUDGET OFFICER
The Budget Officer shall be authorized to reallocate departmental
appropriations among the various objects of expenditure and interdepartmental
transfers as said officer believes necessary. The Budget Officer shall be
authorized to effect inter-fund transfers, not to exceed $1,500.00. Notation of
such reallocation and transfers shall be made to the Board on the next
succeeding financial report.
SECTION XI
RESTRICTION - BUDGET OFFICER
The inter-fund transfer of monies exceeding $1,500.00 shall be accomplished by
Board authorization only. The utilization of any contingency appropriation
shall be accomplished only with Board authorization.
SECTION XII
UTILIZATION OF BUDGET & BUDGET ORDINANCE
This Ordinance and the Budget Document shall be the basis of the financial plan
for the City of Southport municipal government during the 2006-2007 Fiscal
Year. The Budget Officer shall administer the budget and shall ensure that
operation officials are provided guidance and sufficient details to implement
their appropriate portion of the Budget. The accounting section shall establish
records which are in agreement with the budget and this ordinance and the
appropriate statues of the State of North Carolina.
Copies of the Budget Ordinance shall be furnished to the Finance Director and
the City Manager of the City of Southport, to be kept on file by them for their
direction in the disbursement of funds.
DULY ADOPTED, this the 27 th day of June, 2006.
S/ Mayor Norman R. Holden
Attest:
S/Regina W. Alexander, CMC
Clerk to the Board of Aldermen
Attachment “A “
EXISTING RATES
 
Base Rate For Water Inside City Limits Base Rate Outside City Limits
3/4"   $7.50   3/4"   $15.01
1"     $12.86  1"     $25.72
1-1/4" $14.99  1-1/4" $29.96
1-1/2" $26.67  1-1/2" $53.35
2"     $39.67  2"     $79.33
4"     $127.37 4"     $254.73
6"     $247.24 6"     $494.47
 
Variable Charge Inside City Limits $3.00 Variable Charge Outside City Limits
Per 1000 gallons                         $6.00 Per 1000 gallons
 
PROPOSED RATES
 
Base Rate For Water Inside City Limits Base Rate Outside City Limits
 
3/4"   $8.14   3/4"   $16.28
1"     $13.95  1"     $27.91
1-1/4" $16.26  1-1/4" $32.51
1-1/2" $28.94  1-1/2" $57.89
2"     $43.04  2"     $86.07
4"     $138.20 4"     $276.38
6"     $268.26 6"     $536.50
 
Variable Charge Inside City Limits $3.25 Variable Charge Outside City Limits
Per 1000 gallons                         $6.50 Per 1000 gallons
 
Attachment “C “
EXISTING RATES
 
Base Rate For Sewer Inside & Outside City Limits Variable Charge
 
3/4"   $8.50
1"     $14.45
1-1/4" $19.55
1-1/2" $28.05  $5.00 Per 1000 gallons based on water usage
2"     $45.04
4"     $141.91
6"     $282.97
 
PROPOSED RATES
 
Base Rate For Sewer Inside & Outside City Limits Variable Charge
 
3/4"   $9.22
1"     $15.68
1-1/4" $21.21
1-1/2" $30.44  $5.43 Per 1000 gallons based on water usage
2"     $48.87
4"     $153.94
6"     $307.02
 
City Manager Gandy thanked the Board for their support and extended thanks to
his department heads for their work and support.
In conclusion, Mayor Holden stated “this is the best Board I have ever worked
with.”
ADJOURNMENT
Alderman Childs motioned to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Alderman Adams,
vote carried.
________________________________
S/Norman R. Holden, Mayor
_______________________
S/Regina W. Alexander, CMC
Clerk
JULY 13, 2006
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMAN REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
JULY 13, 2006     7:30 P.M.
ALDERMAN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, N. C.
 
MEMBERS PRESENT:   Norman Holden, Mayor
            Aldermen Nelson Adams, Mary “Meezie” Childs,
            James Powell, Mary “Stuart” Callari and Paul Fisher
MEMBERS ABSENT:   James Brown
STAFF PRESENT:      Rob Gandy, City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander, City Clerk
            Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
            Bob Grant, Public Services Director
            Patty Miller, Finance Officer
            David Emilita, City Planner
            Jerry V. Dove, Chief of Police
I.
Call to Order
The regular monthly meeting of the Southport Board of Aldermen was called to
order at 7:30 p.m. by Mayor Holden.
II.
Invocation
Alderman Adams delivered the invocation.
III.
Approval of Minutes
Alderman Powell motioned, seconded by Alderman Callari, to approve June 14,
regular meeting minutes and June 27, public hearing/workshop minutes. The vote
was unanimous.
IV.
Citizen Matters
There were no comments from the floor.
V.
Public Hearing for contiguous annexation petition submitted pursuant to G.S.
160A-31 by Ray Anderson.
Alderman Childs motioned to enter public hearing, seconded by Alderman Adams to
entertain comments from the public on the request for contiguous annexation
submitted by Ray Anderson. The vote was unanimous.
There were no comments from the public. Alderman Childs moved, seconded by
Alderman Callari to re-enter regular session. The vote was unanimous.
Attorney Isenberg stated the property may be annexed provided the metes and
bounds are combined as one tract on the map. Mr. Ray Anderson agreed that this
would be done.
Alderman Callari motioned, seconded by Alderman Fisher, to adopt the following
annexation ordinance contingent upon the lots being combined as one tract.
Motion seconded by Alderman Fisher. The vote was unanimous.
AN ORDINANCE TO EXTEND THE CORPORATE LIMITS OF THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT, NORTH
CAROLINA
WHEREAS, the City of Southport has been petitioned under G.S. 160A-31 to annex
the area described below; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen has by resolution directed the City Clerk to
investigate the sufficiency of the petition; and
WHEREAS, the City Clerk has certified the sufficiency of the petition and a
public hearing on the question of this annexation was held at Southport City
Hall at 7:30 p.m. on July 13, 2006, after due notice by publication in the
State Port Pilot on June 28 and July 5, 2006;
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen finds that the petition meets the requirements
of G.S. 160A-31;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of Southport, North
Carolina that:
Section 1. By virtue of the authority granted by G.S. 160A-31, the following
described territory is hereby annexed and made part of the City of Southport
effective immediately:
Beginning at an existing iron pipe at the r/w line of Yaupon Ave., where it
intersects with the r/w line of Park Ave. Ext. thence with the r/w line of
Yaupon Ave, N-10-W, 131.47’ to an existing iron pipe. Thence a chord bearing
and distance N 16-47-18 W, 40.88’ to an iron stake set also being the point of
beginning. Thence, a chord bearing and distance of N 28-08-21 W, 60.61’ to an
existing iron pipe. Thence, a chord bearing and distance of N 42-02-57 W,
63.68’ to an existing iron pipe. Thence, N 07-37-58 E, 121.95’ to an iron stake
set. Thence, N-07-37-58E, 121.95’ to an iron stake set. Thence, N-07-37-58 E,
139.67’ to an existing concrete monument. Thence, S 74-45-47 E, 297.26’ to an
existing iron pipe. Thence, S 18-25-35 W, 144.19’ to an existing iron pipe.
Thence, S 01-09-47 E 178’ to an existing iron pipe. Thence, S 69-56-46 E,
43.54’ to an existing iron pipe. Thence, a chord bearing and distance of S 65-
39-02 W, 71.18’ to an existing iron pipe. Thence, S 59-55-58 W, 13.29’ to an
iron stake set. Thence, N 69-56-46 W, 25.24’ to an iron stake set. Thence, N-
01-09-47 W, 101.30’ to a point. Thence, N 84-41-08 W, 119.14’ to an iron pipe
set. Thence, S 27-10-22 W, 40.20’ to an iron pipe set. Thence, S-73-44-07 W,
8.48’ to the point of beginning. Being all of Lots 2 and 3 and containing
87741.7 sq. ft., 2.01 acres.
This being the same property as shown on a plat entitled “Area Annexed by the
City of Southport N.C. on July 13, 2006 recorded in Map Cabinet _______ at Page
____ of the Brunswick County Registry.
Section 2. Upon and after July 13, 2006 the above-described territory and its
citizens and property shall be subject to all debts, laws, ordinances and
regulations in force in the City of Southport and shall be entitled to the same
privileges and benefits as other parts of the City of Southport. Said territory
shall be subject to municipal taxes according to G.S. 160A-58.10.
Section 3.  The Mayor of the City of Southport shall cause to be recorded in
the office of the Register of Deeds of Brunswick County, and in the office of
the Secretary of State at Raleigh, North Carolina, an accurate map of the
annexed territory, described in Section 1 above, together with a duly certified
copy of this ordinance. Such a map shall also be delivered to the County Board
of Elections, as required by G. S. 163-288.1.
ADOPTED, this the 13th day of July 2006.
/S/ Norman R. Holden
Mayor
ATTEST:
/S/ Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
(Ray Anderson)
VI.
Review of Resolution authorizing the exchange of certain property between the
City of Southport and Dosher Hospital
The resolution for exchange of property was presented for Board approval.
Alderman Adams asked to see a map of the property, which was shown to him by
City Manager Gandy and Bob Grant, Public Services Director. Alderman Adams also
asked if the city would have egress/ingress to the property once the transfers
are completed. Alderman Fisher stated that this was discussed and the City will
have access through the property. No further discussion or questions, Alderman
Fisher moved that the resolution be adopted authorizing the exchange of certain
property between the City of Southport and Dosher Hospital, motion was duly
seconded by Alderman Callari, and the vote was unanimous.
RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING EXCHANGE OF PROPERTY
WHEREAS, the City of Southport owns that certain tract of land located at the
northeast corner of Howe Street and Fodale Avenue in Southport lying to the
west of the old city garage building, consisting of 0.563 acres, which tract is
part of tax parcel 237DC023 and which tract is valued at $ 105, 562.00; and
WHEREAS, Smithville Township’s J. Arthur Dosher Memorial Hospital owns that
tract of land consisting of 1.41 acres located at the northwest corner of Howe
Street and 10th Street in Southport with 66 feet frontage on Lord Street, said
property being tax parcels 237DC015, 237DC017 and 237DC019, and said tract
being valued at $359,570.00; and
WHEREAS, the City and Dosher Hospital wish to make an exchange of the two above
described properties with the City of Southport paying Dosher Hospital an
additional sum of $187,500.00 to complete said exchange; and
WHEREAS, N. C. G. S. 160A-271 authorizes the City to make such an exchange if
authorized by the Board of Aldermen by a resolution adopted at a regular
meeting of the board upon at least 10 days’ public notice; and
WHEREAS, the City has given the required public notice, and the board is
convened in a regular meeting;
NOW, THEREFORE, the Southport Board of Aldermen resolves that:
(1)   The exchange of properties upon the terms and conditions described above
is authorized.
(2)   The appropriate city officials are authorized and directed to execute the
appropriate instruments necessary to carry out the exchange.
Adopted this 13th day of July 2006.
City of Southport
/s/ Norman R. Holden
Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Regina W Alexander
Clerk
VII.
Review of new five-year contract between the City of Southport and Brunswick
Electric Membership Cooperative for Operation and Maintenance of the City’s
electrical system
Alderman Fisher stated that this is a five (5) year contract between the City
and BEMC and is the same Agreement that was provided to each Board member
during the budget meeting. In discussion with BEMC representatives, the formal
review was increased to semi annual and they kept the cap on how much they can
charge for CPI.
No further comments, Alderman Fisher moved to approve the contract between the
City of Southport and Brunswick Electric for the operation and maintenance of
the city’s electrical system. Motion seconded by Alderman Childs, the vote of
approval was unanimous. (Contract incorporated as Attachment No. 1)
VIII.
Review of Resolution accepting and endorsing the 2006 update of the Solid Waste
Management Plan for Brunswick County
City Manager Gandy stated that the original plan was adopted in 1997 and DENR
requires updates every 3 years. The County’s Plan has been updated and
presented to the City. If Southport does not wish to continue participating, it
will need to adopt its own Solid Waste Plan.
Alderman Fisher motioned that the City continue participating in the County’s
Solid Waste Plan and to adopt the following resolution accepting and endorsing
the 2006 update. Motion seconded by Alderman Callari, vote carried.
RESOLUTION ACCEPTING AND ENDORSING THE 2006 UPDATE OF THE SOLID WASTE
MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR BRUNSWICK COUNTY
WHEREAS, it is a priority of this community to protect human health and the
Environment through safe and effective management of municipal solid waste; and
WHEREAS, the reduction of the amount and toxicity of the local waste stream is
a goal of this community; and
WHEREAS, equitable and efficient delivery of solid waste management services is
an essential characteristic of the local management solid waste management
system; and
WHEREAS, it is a goal of the community to maintain and improve its physical
appearance and to reduce the adverse effects of illegal disposal and littering;
and
WHEREAS, the City of Southport recognizes its role in the encouragement of
recycled products; and
WHEREAS, involvement and education of the citizenry is critical to the
establishment of an effective local solid waste program; and
WHEREAS, the State of North Carolina has placed planning responsibility on
local government for the management of solid waste; and
WHEREAS, NC General Statute 130A-309.09A(b) requires each unit of local
government, either individually or in cooperation with other units of local
government, to update the Ten Year Comprehensive Solid Waste Management Plan at
least every three years; and
WHEREAS, the Brunswick County Solid Waste Management Department has undertaken
and completed a long range planning effort to evaluate the appropriate
technologies and strategies available to manage solid waste effectively;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that
Brunswick County’s 2006 Update of the Ten Year Comprehensive Solid Waste
Management Plan is accepted and endorsed and placed on file with the City Clerk
on the 13th Day of July, 2006
/s/ Norman R. Holden
Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
City Clerk
IX.
Review of Resolution fixing date of Public hearing on the question of
contiguous annexation pursuant to G. S. 160A-31
Alderman Childs moved to approve the resolution fixing date of public hearing
on contiguous annexation for Glen Richardson pursuant to G.S. 160A-31. Motion
seconded by Alderman Callari, vote carried. (Wilson/Roses Property off Howe
Street)
RESOLUTION FIXING DATE OF PUBLIC HEARING ON QUESTION OF CONTIGUOUS ANNEXATION
PURSUANT TO G.S. 160A-31
WHEREAS, a petition requesting annexation of the contiguous area described
herein has been received; and
WHEREAS, the City of Southport Board of Aldermen has by resolution directed the
City Clerk to investigate the sufficiency of the petition; and
WHEREAS, certification by the City Clerk as to the sufficiency of the petition
has been made;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport, North Carolina that:
Section 1.  A public hearing on the question of annexation of the contiguous
area described herein will be held at Southport City Hall at 7:30 p.m. on
August 10, 2006.
Section 2. The area proposed for annexation is described as follows:
A certain tract or parcel of land in the City of Southport, Smithville
Township, Brunswick County, North Carolina, fronting on the south side of
Robert Ruark Drive (S. R. No. 1852 about 100 yards westerly from Howe Street
(N. C. Highway No. 211), adjoining the lands of Evia Corporation, Southport
Property, LLC, and Three Sixty Five, LLC on the East, Little Sandpiper Child
Learning Center, Jason and Melanie Smith, and Itac 62, LLC on the South, Linda
J. Pasulka on the West, and Pelican Companies, Inc. on the North, being more
particularly described as follows:
Beginning at an iron rod located at the southern right-of-way of Robert Ruark
Drive, the northeasterly corner of the tract herein described, said iron rod
also being located S 68° 53’ 58” W 311.17 feet from NC Grid Monument “K216,”
said monument having NC Grid coordinates of N = 70154.25 feet and E =
2295355.07 feet (NAD 83 Datum), thence from the beginning with a line of Evia
Corporation (Deed Book 738, Page 595) S 21° 09’ 43” E 138.11 feet to an iron
rod; thence with a line of Southport Property, LLC (Deed Book 2308, page 684) S
21° 18’ 00” E 199.73 feet to a pk nail; thence with lines of Three Sixty Five,
LLC (Deed Book 2046, Page 488) S 68° 28’ 36” W 97.82 feet to a pk nail; thence
S 21° 29’ 20” E 180.68 feet to an iron pipe in the northern line of Little
Sandpiper Child Learning Center (Deed Book 1885, Page 646); Thence with the
lines of Little Sandpiper Child Learning Center; Jason L. and Melanie R. Smith
(Deed Book 1795, Page 863) and Itac 62, LLC (Deed Book 1947, Page 915 and Map
Book 24, Page 16) S 68° 40’ 28” W 605.47 feet to an iron rod; thence with a
line of Linda J. Pasulka (Deed Book 925, Page 1059) N 21° 14’ 18” W 520.94 feet
to an iron rod situated in the southern right-of-way of Robert Ruark Drive;
thence with the southern right-of-way of Robert Ruark Drive N 68° 50’ 40” E
388.27 feet to an iron rod; thence leaving said right-of-way with lines of
Pelican Companies Incorporated (Deed Book 1044, Page 818) S 73° 13’ 01” E 59.30
feet to a pk nail; thence N 41° 23’ 34” E 79.09 feet to a pk nail situated in
the southern right-of-way of Robert Ruark Drive; thence with the southern
right-of-way of Robert Ruark Drive N 68° 50’ 40” E 197.24 feet to the point of
beginning, containing 345,439 square feet, or 7.93 acres, more or less, and
being a portion of the property of 40-59 Hampton Street, LLC and Movies One,
LLC as described in a deed recorded in Deed Book 1416, at Page 983, in the
Brunswick County Registry.
Section 3. Notice of public hearing shall be published once in the State Port
Pilot, a newspaper having general circulation in the City of Southport at least
ten (10) days prior to the date of the public hearing.
Adopted this the 13th day of July 2006.
/s/ Norman R. Holden
Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, CMC, City Clerk
X.
Review of resolution authorizing waiver of bid procedure and purchase of a
vactor combination sewer truck pursuant to G.S. 143-129(g).
Mr. Grant, Public Services Director stated that this request was included in FY
05-06 budget but was not purchased until the City received reimbursement for
its grant award through the Clean Water Management Trust Fund. The monies were
received in June and he recommends purchasing this equipment. He stated the
cost of the combination sewer truck is $144,034.00 and recommended piggybacking
off an April purchase by the City of Aiken South Carolina from Public Works
Equipment and Supply, Inc as permitted under NCGS 143-129(g).
Motion was offered by Alderman Powell, seconded by Alderman Callari to approve
the lease purchase of the vactor combination sewer truck. The vote of approval
was unanimous. (Copy of Lease Purchase Incorporated as Attachment No. 2)
XI.
Appointment – ABC Board
The Board acknowledged the resignation of Eddie Warnette from the ABC Board.
Alderman Adams motioned, seconded by Alderman Childs, to appoint William
Hargrove to complete the unexpired term of Eddie Warnette on the ABC Board,
vote carried.
XII.
Review of Resolution requesting the North Carolina Department of Transportation
to conduct the engineering and environmental studies required for development
of the transportation infrastructure required for the development of the North
Carolina International Port in Brunswick County.
Alderman Powell moved to adopt the following resolution and requested a copy be
sent to Representatives Stiller, Hill, Senator R. C. Soles and Lanny Wilson,
DOT Board member. Motion seconded by Alderman Fisher, the vote carried.
RESOLUTON REQUESTING THE NORTH CAROLINA DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION TO CONDUCT
THE ENGINEERING AND ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES REQUIRED FOR DEVELOPMENT OF THE
TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE REQUIRED FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE NORTH
CAROLINA INTERNATIONAL PORT IN BRUNSWICK COUNTY
WHEREAS, the North Carolina State Ports Authority has acquired in excess of 600
acres of prime riverfront property in Brunswick County, within five miles of
the Atlantic Ocean; and
WHEREAS, the Ports Authority has begun planning the development of a new state
of the art container port serving North Carolina, to be called the North
Carolina International Port, which it desires to be operational as early as
2012 and fully operational no later than 2014; and
WHEREAS, the new port will make North Carolina’s ports competitive with the
ports in neighboring states and will have a profound positive economic benefit
to the entire State; and
WHEREAS, this project should not be designated as a regional project in the
Transportation Improvement Plan but should be recognized as a State project for
the economic benefits it brings to all regions of North Carolina; and
WHEREAS, cargo handling activities at the Ports of Morehead City and Wilmington
drive Statewide economic development by contributing to 84,833 North Carolina
jobs and $299 million in annual State and local tax revenues, and activities at
the North Carolina International Port are forecast to support over 280,000
North Carolina jobs and $674 million in annual tax revenues; and
WHEREAS, it is critical to the development and success of the NCIP and to the
economic development of the State that both rail and highway access be located
so as to provide the most efficient transportation for the containers to be
transported through the NCIP; and
WHEREAS, the Department of Transportation has the expertise and experience
required to complete the engineering and environmental studies necessary for
connection of the NCIP with the major rail and highway corridors in the area;
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the City of Southport Board of Aldermen
does hereby request that the North Carolina State Department of Transportation:
a.   Move forward with the engineering and environmental studies required to
initiate construction of highway and rail access to NCIP and that such study or
studies be commenced as soon as possible;
b.   Provide for the most efficient connections between the NICP and the
Interstate highway system and to the State’s rail systems;
c.   Study the feasibility of the State assuming responsibility for upgrading,
operating and maintaining the U.S. Federal Railroad to service Military Ocean
Terminal, Sunny Point, the NICP and other enterprises.
d.   Consider an alternative route from NCIP to US Highway 17, which would
parallel NC 87.
e.   Identify and pursue a funding strategy to provide the funding for highway
and rail access to NICP.
f.   “Fast track” this project in order to accommodate a 2012 target date for
completion of Phase 1 of the NCIP development.
The foregoing Resolution was adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen at its
regularly scheduled meeting held on July 13, 2006
/s/ Norman R. Holden. Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, City Clerk
XIII.
Other Business
Patty Miller, Finance Director presented the following for Board consideration:
To:      Honorable Mayor, Board of Aldermen and City Manager
From:      Patty D Miller, Finance Director
Date:      July 13, 2006
Re:      Approval of Purchase Price and Financing for (3) vehicles
      2006 Ford F250 XL-REG Cab (including tommy-lift   ……W/S Dept.
      2006 Ford Explorer XLS-4DR 4x4            ……..Code Enforcement
      2006 Ford Explorer XLS-4DR 4x2            ……..Electric Dept.
We have received two informal bids for total cost of all three vehicles
      Jones Ford…………………………………..$66,418
      Fairway Ford………………………………. $67,344
We have received three bids for financing for a (3) year term.
         Rate            Annual Payment   Total Cost
First Citizens      4.15% (no fees)      $22,663.05      $67,989.15
BB&T         4.17% (no fees)      $22,667.28      $68,001.84
RBC         4.66% (no fees)      $22,770.83      $68,312.49
I recommend and ask for Board approval to award the bid to Jones Ford for
$66,418 and the lease purchase financing to First Citizens Bank for an annual
payment of $22,663.05
Alderman Fisher made the following motions, seconded by Alderman Adams. The
vote was unanimous:
·   To accept the recommendation of the Finance Officer and award the bid to
Jones Ford in the amount of $66,418 for the purchase of a 2006 Ford F250 XL-REG
Cab, 2006 Ford Explorer XLS-4 Dr 4x4 and a 2006 Ford Explorer XLS-4DR 4x2.
·   That the City finances the purchase of said vehicles with First Citizens
Bank at an interest rate of 4.15% for a 3-year term with annual payments of
$22,663.05 each for a total cost of $67,989.15.
·   That the Mayor, City Manager, Finance Director and Clerk be authorized and
directed to execute all documents necessary to carry out the purchase and
financing of said vehicles.
Surplus Equipment – City Manager Gandy gave the Board a list of surplus
property that was sold in FY 05-06.
·   1983 Ford Ranger               $50.00
·   1991 Chevy S-10               $50.00
·   1990 Ford Taurus               $50.00
·   1988 Ford F-150               $50.00
·   1986 Ford Bus                  $2500.00
·   1975 Dodge W-30               $25.00
Fire Department sold to Boiling Spring Lakes Fire Dept.
·   1995 Kelva Sea Cat Boat, Motor & and trailer   $6,411.72
                  Total      $9,136.72
Fort Johnson – City Manager Gandy clarified that the City’s application has
been approved by the Division of Health and Human Services for the Fort Johnson
property.
Commendation - City Manager Gandy commended the Director of Public Services and
his staff for a job well done during and after the 4th of July festivities.
Alderman Adams extended special thanks to Paul Clemmons and Woody McRoy for a
great job on John N. Smith Cemetery.
Resignation – The Board was informed that David Emilita, Planning Director had
resigned and would be returning north due to a family situation. Board members
extended best wishes to David and his family.
Rescue Squad Water Rescue Equipment – Alderman Fisher stated since the Rescue
Squad is out of the water rescue business and does not need the water rescue
equipment, he moved to direct the City Manager to sell the equipment.
Discussion: Alderman Adams recommended the equipment be offered to the
Sheriff’s Department. Mrs. Drew, Rescue Chief, stated that the equipment was
offered to the Sheriff’s Department, but they did not express an interest in
it, however; Sunny Point has indicated that they are interested in acquiring
the equipment. AMENDMENT: Alderman Fisher amended the motion to direct the City
Manager to declare the water rescue equipment surplus and to authorize him to
dispose of the water rescue equipment with the first offer being made to any
governmental department interested, and if no one expresses an interest, sell
the equipment to the highest bidder. Alderman Callari seconded the motion, and
the vote was unanimous.
For information, Alderman Fisher told the Board that city representatives would
be meeting with Rod Hyson and his Attorney concerning the Steven’s Park
property.
Alderman Fisher reported that he met with the Parking Study Consultant and the
parking study will be presented at the September meeting. The Parking Study
Committee will review it before submission to the Board.
Alderman Fisher moved, seconded by Alderman Callari, and the vote of approval
was unanimous that the City Manager is directed to prepare an action plan to
include cost and time phasing. This plan will be submitted to the Board at the
August 2006 meeting to accomplish the following:
·   Move the City lay down area at Lowe-White Park by January 1, 2007,
·   Remove all property at Stevens Park by October 1, 2006 in accordance with
the Cape Fear Trading Group IV, LLC lease dated April 26, 2006. Activities or
structures removed will be operational by December 31, 2006, and
·   A plan to reconstruct Lowe-White Park with an operational date of June 30,
2007.
For information, Alderman Fisher stated that Progress Energy Brunswick Unit 1 &
2 license has been extended until 2026, also the Harris Plant.
Mayor Holden extended thanks to law enforcement personnel, rescue squad and
others for their assistance during the Fourth of July festivities.
Mayor Holden briefed the Board on a meeting with Reginald Holly, Deputy State
Director for Senator Elizabeth Dole who is a member of the HUD Committee. He
stated that the City of Southport submitted their application to acquire Fort
Johnston, which was accepted and approved by the Department of Interior. He
also met with Senator Byrd and Representative Alan McFayden who is also in
favor of Southport’s application to acquire Fort Johnston. The City is waiting
to see what will happen with the application submitted by Fellowship
Deliverance Ministries, LaGrange Georgia, who has made application to acquire
the property for a homeless shelter.
XIV.
Adjournment
No further business, the meeting was adjourned upon motion of Alderman Childs,
seconded by Alderman Brown, vote carried.
__________________________________
Norman R. Holden, Mayor
______________________________
Regina W. Alexander, CMC, Clerk
AUGUST 10, 2006
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
AUGUST 10, 2006   7:30 P.M.
ALDERMAN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, NC
 
MEMBERS PRESENT:   Norman R. Holden, Mayor
            Mary “Stuart” Callari, Nelson Adams and James Brown
MEMBERS ABSENT:   Aldermen Fisher, James Powell and Mary “Meezie” Childs
STAFF PRESENT:      Regina W. Alexander-CMC, City Clerk
STAFF ABSENT:      Rob Gandy, City Manager
            Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
I.
Call To Order – 7:30 p.m.
Mayor Holden called the meeting to order.
II.
Recess – 7:35 p.m.
Alderman Callari moved to recess the meeting until Tuesday, August 15, 2006, 7:
30 p.m., motion seconded by Alderman Brown, vote carried.
/s/ Norman R. Holden, Mayor
/s/Regina W. Alexander, Clerk
AUGUST 15, 2006
RECESSED MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN RECESSED MEETING
AUGUST 15, 2006   7:30 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, NC
 
MEMBERS PRESENT:    Norman R. Holden, Mayor
            Aldermen Nelson Adams, Mary “Meezie” Childs,
            James Brown, James Powell, Mary “Stuart” Callari, and Paul Fisher
MEMBERS ABSENT:   None
STAFF PRESENT:      Rob Gandy, City Manager
            Regina Alexander, Clerk
            Mike Isenberg, Attorney
            Chad Hicks, Planner
I.
Call to Order
Mayor Holden called the recessed meeting back to order at 7:35 p.m.
II.
Invocation
Alderman Brown delivered the invocation.
III.
Approval of Minutes
Alderman Powell moved to approve the July 13, 2006 regular meeting minutes,
seconded by Alderman Callari. Vote carried.
IV.
Citizen Matters (Non Agenda/Petitions from the floor)
Mr. Gandy, City Manager presented and introduced Chad Hicks, new staff member
in the position of City Planner. Mr. Hicks replaces David Emilita who resigned
and moved back north due to family reasons. Mr. Hicks comes to the City of
Southport from Whiteville, N. C. Mr. Hicks expressed his appreciation at being
hired by the City and looks forward to the challenge.
V.
Public Hearing - to consider revision to the Unified Development Ordinance
Repeal of Section 25-14 “Land Disturbing Activities” and addition of Article I
General Provisions, Section 1-11
Alderman Callari moved to enter public hearing on the above, seconded by
Alderman Childs, vote carried.
Attorney Isenberg noted that there were a few clerical changes but not anything
substantive that would require another hearing. Paragraph 1 under #2-change
word to “matter,” third paragraph added words “prior to the completion of
application.”
No public comments, Mayor called for a motion to close the public hearing and
re-enter regular session. Alderman Childs moved, seconded by Alderman Brown,
vote carried.
Alderman Childs moved to approve the revision of the Unified Development;
Repeal of Section 25-14 “Land Disturbing Activities” and addition of Article 1,
General Provisions, Section 1-11 “Land Disturbing Activities” with the noted
changes. Alderman Callari seconded the motion and the vote of approval was
unanimous.
1.   Section 25-14: Land Disturbing Activities
“Section 25-14 is hereby repealed.”
2.   ARTICLE 1. GENERAL PROVISIONS.
ADD: Section 1-11: Land Disturbing Activities
“It has become a matter of public concern that owners of land under development
application review have prematurely “head started” unregulated land clearing
and pre-construction activities. This is improper for many reasons; not only
procedural but it also could create liability issues, environmental impacts, as
well as cause adverse impacts upon unsuspecting neighbors. The intent of this
section is to prevent this activity on the part of developers awaiting full
approval, but not to prevent the individual homeowner from landscaping
activity, vegetative maintenance, tree trimming or tree removal.
Therefore, from the effective date of this section August 15, 2006 there shall
be no pre-construction activity, including, but not limited to disturbance to
vegetation other than path-clearing by hand for inventorying natural resources
or land surveying activity; or installing vegetative protection or erosion and
sedimentation control measures as approved by the City, for any site under
application review, until such pre-construction activity is authorized by the
City approval agency and until all applicable City, State and Federal approvals
have been obtained and submitted.
The City approval agency shall have the authority to require restoration of the
site to its predevelopment conditions existing at the date of acquisition by
the applicant, but no more than three years prior to the commencement of
application review. The City approval authority may require such environmental
studies, as it deems necessary to establish such predevelopment conditions,
baseline environmental data, and other site information in fulfillment of its
responsibilities of this Ordinance.
This provision shall not apply to final development approvals granted by the
City as of the effective date of this section. The intent of this section is
not to regulate normal landscape and vegetative maintenance by the owner-
occupant or tenant of a residence or commercial building. Activities permitted
under Article 18 of this Ordinance shall not be affected by the section.”
3.   ARTICLE 2. BASIC DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS
Add the following new definitions:
Application Review. The process, by which a submission for proposed
development, construction or reconstruction of a building or site is evaluated,
processed and acted upon by the City approval agency. Application review shall
be considered to have begun on the date of the first submission of an
application with the Administrator.
Pre-construction Activity. Any action taken to disturb land or vegetation for a
site prior to the completion of application review, or other site preparation,
including but not limited to the storage of construction materials, stockpiles,
containers, vehicles or similar items prior to the start of construction
permitted there under.
Alderman Fisher made mention of construction work being performed on Sundays
and asked about the city code governing this. City Manager Gandy and Attorney
Isenberg stated this comes under the Noise Ordinance in the City Code. Mr.
Gandy stated that he asked the Building Inspector to make this a part of the
building permit process and he will discuss this again. Mr. Gandy asked if
anyone sees construction work being done on Sundays to contact the Police
Department.
VI.
Public Hearing on request by Glenn Richardson and Movie One, LLC for contiguous
annexation (Old Wilson’s and Roses Property)
Alderman Callari moved to enter public hearing on a request by Mr. Glenn
Richardson on a contiguous annexation petition submitted pursuant to G.S. 160A-
31, seconded by Alderman Childs, vote carried.
Mr. Gandy explained that a mistake was made on the attached map and he
explained the area for annexation. 7.93 acres will be annexed. Mayor stated
that Mr. Richardson is trying to acquire the old Kerr Drug Store property so it
will blend in with the proposed construction.
No public comments, motion made by Alderman Childs, seconded by Alderman
Callari to close the public hearing and re-enter regular session, vote carried.
Alderman Fisher moved to approve the contiguous annexation request by Mr.
Richardson for the Wilson’s and Roses Plaza, seconded by Alderman Childs, vote
carried.
VII.
Review of non-contiguous annexation petition submitted pursuant to G.S. 160A-
58.1 (Out parcel, N.C. 211, south of Bank of America property)
City Manager Gandy stated this is the property where the city entered into an
annexation agreement with the Town of St. James. The Clerk contacted the
property owner and he verbally requested that the petition be changed to no
vested rights. The Clerk noted the change on the original petition, date and
the person that asked her to change vested rights to “no.” Attorney Isenberg
explained that in order to declare vested rights, they need to have an approved
site-specific plan because general zoning does not give vested rights. The
Board needs only to authorize the clerk to investigate sufficiency of the
petition. Alderman Fisher moved to authorize the Clerk to investigate the
sufficiency of the petition, seconded by Alderman Callari, vote carried.
VIII.
Resolution Authorizing the Disposition of Personal Property
Alderman Childs motioned to approve the resolution authorizing the disposition
of certain personal property by private sale, seconded by Alderman Brown, vote
carried.
RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE DISPOSITION OF CERTAIN PERSONAL PROPERTY BY PRIVATE
SALE
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport desires to dispose of
certain surplus property of the City of Southport.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that:
1.   The following described property is hereby declared to be surplus to needs
of the City:
UNIT#   DESCRIPTION         VIN#
409      1989 Chevy Caprice 4 door sedan   1G1BL51E4KR174829
219      1989 Chevy R-30 1 Ton utility truck   1GB6R3K9K118261
105      1996 Ford Crown Victoria 4 Door   2FALP71WOTX119716
242      1991 Sreco Jet Trailer         WMTR911411
2.   The City Manager is authorized to dispose of the described property by
private sale at a negotiated price pursuant to G.S. 160A-267.
3.   The City Clerk shall publish notice summarizing this Resolution in
accordance with G.S. 160A-267.
4.   The sale may be consummated not earlier than 10 days from the date of
publication.
DULY adopted this 10th day of August 2006.
/s/ Norman R. Holden
Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
City Clerk
IX.
Utility Meter Contract
City Manger Gandy explained that the meter-reading contract was entered into
October of 1999, two years prior to approval of the first Operation and
Maintenance contract with Brunswick Electric. He made referenced to discussion
about the possibility of meter reading being done in house, however; it has
been by contract for the past seven years and he did not consider this
possibility. He stated Brunswick Electric actually did it in house and then
they sub-contracted it out. The Finance Director performed an analysis to
determine what it would cost to bring meter reading back in house assuming the
position would be given to someone on staff. It would cost the city $.89 per
meter vs. $.80 per meter on contract. The contract person for BEMC read 4500
meters averaging 20 days per month including electric, water and irrigation.
Alderman Fisher stated this was discussed during a Committee meeting with
Brunswick Electric, why pay the intermediary when the city can contract
directly for the same service and save money, approximately $3,000.
City Manager Gandy informed the Board that Brunswick Electric is running pilot
programs on automated meter reading. At this point, they read only electric
meters. Once this test program is working sufficiently, they will include water
meters. During contract negotiations, the city was asked if it would be
interested in participating when water meters are brought on line. He stated
that there is a possibility that meter reading will be automated in the next 2-
3 years.
Mayor Holden stated if meter reading is brought back in house, the city will
have to pay benefits i.e. retirement, insurance, 401-K, provide a vehicle, etc.
It is more cost effective to contract the meter reading and recommended
approval of the contract. City Manager Gandy stated if city staff read meters,
this would pull from other duties and possibly end up a full time position.
Staff recommended the proposal from Terry Bassett, the current meter reader in
the amount of $43,500 annually ($1,673.08 bi –weekly) with no change in rate
for the first 20 meters and $.80 per meter afterwards. This proposal is $3,880
less than the Coastal Group who submitted a bid. Ms. Bassett’s proposal also
includes provisions for backup meter readers, vehicles, supplying her own
liability and medical insurance, vehicle maintenance and 4% increase each
optional year.
Alderman Adams stated he questioned the contract and his major concern was to
afford an employee on staff the opportunity to have the job. The City already
pays benefits and vehicles are available. He contended that anytime jobs like
this become available, employees in-house should get first preference, and
other people should be given the opportunity to submit bids. City Manager Gandy
stated bids were received from BEMC, Coastal and Terrilyn Bassett, who was the
low bidder. City Manager Gandy reiterated again that the meter reading has been
contracted for seven years; he did not look at it as an in-house position
because the service has been contracted. Alderman Adams concluded his comments
by stating that more than one person should have known about the bidding
process for the meter reader and if others knew, more savings could have been
realized.
No further comments, Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Fisher to
award the contract to Terrilyn Basset for the amount of $43,500. The votes of
approval were five ayes, Alderman Powell, Fisher, Childs, Callari and Brown.
One no vote, Alderman Adams. (Contract Incorporated as Attachment #1)
X.
Order of Collection for FY 2006-2007 Taxes
Alderman Fisher moved, seconded by Alderman Callari to approve the order
authorizing the Tax Collector to collect taxes for FY 06-07, vote was
unanimous.
ORDER OF COLLECTION
State of North Carolina
City of Southport
To the Tax Collector of the City of Southport
You are hereby authorized, empowered, and commanded to collect the taxes set
forth in the tax records filed in the office of the City of Southport and in
the tax receipts herewith delivered to you, in the amounts and from the
taxpayers likewise therein set forth. Such taxes are hereby declared a first
lien upon all real property of the respective taxpayers in the City of
Southport, and this order shall be full and sufficient authority to direct,
require and enable you to levy on and sell any real or personal property of
such taxpayers, for and on account thereof, in accordance with law.
Witness my hand and official seal, this the 10th Day of August, 2006
/s/ Norman R. Holden, Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, Clerk
XI.
Resolution in Support of Oak Island and Sunset Beach Bridge
Alderman Childs moved to adopt the following resolution in support of ensuring
that the Oak Island and Sunset Beach bridge projects proceed without further
delays. Alderman Brown seconded, the vote of approval was unanimous.
RESOLUTION IN SUPPORT OF ENSURING THAT THE OAK ISLAND AND SUNSET BEACH BRIDGE
PROJECTS PROCEEED WITHOUT FURTHER DELAYS
Whereas, over the past 20 years the growth rate in Brunswick County has been
more than twice the rate of the state as a whole; and
Whereas, the people of Brunswick County have waited patiently for an improved
State Road Network in the County while others parts of the State have had
numerous major highway improvements, some of which have been for convenience or
economic development; and
Whereas, Brunswick County is home to a nuclear power plant and a major military
munitions depot, either of which could necessitate rapid evacuation of our
people; and
Whereas, the County is also prone to natural events, such as hurricanes, which
also can trigger a need for rapid evacuations of people out of the area; and
Whereas, we now learn through a media report that two long delayed bridge
projects in Brunswick County may yet again be delayed; and
Whereas, those two projects link two of Brunswick County’s barrier islands to
the mainland and are critical to the safety and general welfare of the
residents and visitors.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the City of Southport Board of Aldermen
recognizes the urgency and necessity for expediting the construction of the
above mentioned bridges, hereby respectfully request the Governor, our
delegations to the General Assembly, the Secretary of Transportation, and the
State Board of Transportation give this their highest consideration necessary
to ensure that the Oak Island and Sunset Beach bridge projects proceed without
any further delays.
THIS THE 10TH DAY OF AUGUST 2006.
/s/ Norman R. Holden, Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, City Clerk
XII.
Action Plan for Lowe-White Park
City Manager Gandy stated at the request of Alderman Fisher for an action plan
for Lowe-White Park, the Public Services Director presented a plan for cleaning
up the lay down yard as the first step in the plan.
·   Vegetative debris and waste material will be removed from the site.
·   All materials to be utilized by Public Services Department for future
operations will be relocated. Materials needed on day to operations will be
stockpiled at the WWTP; all other materials will be relocated to the 35-acre
city tract on Sunny Point Road.
·   Sewer Contractor J.W. Cooke and Sons is in the process of clearing the site
of material.
·   Site should be fully cleared by mid August
Mr. Gandy told the Board due to time constraints with work, and the Parks and
Recreation Director being in summer camp, they will be meeting to determine the
lay of the park property. The action plan for park improvements will be
presented at the September board meeting. The survey was just received which
will assist them in laying out the park. The city’s goal by the end of this
fiscal year is to have major improvements completed at Lowe-White Park.
Alderman Fisher stated that they discussed in general terms a concept plan that
involved Fort Johnston, which is part of the Parks & Recreation responsibility,
and Stevens Park. The city was directed to move out of Steven’s Park within a
certain period. This has to be coordinated with the building of Lowe-White Park
and positioning of the 55 and Over Club, plus the children’s park. He stated
that this is not a simple plan; the concept is but will require funds to
execute. The legislature was asked for monies to assist the city. He explained
that part of the hold up was the disposition of Fort Johnston, since this has
been resolved, they can proceed.
XIII.
Budget Amendments 1 and 2
Alderman Fisher moved to approve budget amendments number 1 and 2, seconded by
Alderman Callari, vote was unanimous.
Budget Amendment # 1
Fiscal Year 2006-2007
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session August 10, 2006, that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for funding lease purchase financing receipts from First
Citizens for three vehicles purchased for Electric Fund, Water & Sewer Fund and
Code Enforcement in the General Fund.
Section I    General Fund
                                Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
A.   Revenues Anticipated
      Proceeds from Financ$23,284          $3,554,399
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
      Code Enforcement
         Capital Outlay$23,284e         $3,554,399
Section IV   Electric Fund
A.   Revenues Anticipated
      Proceeds from Financ$20,534          $6,797,847
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
      Capital Outlay/Vehic$20,534          $6,797,847
Section V   Water/Sewer Fund
A.   Revenue Anticipated
      Proceeds from Financ$22,600          $3,090,547
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
      Capital Outlay/Vehic$22,600          $3,090,547
 
Total Proceeds Received from First Citizens Bank is $66,418.
ADOPTED this the 1oth day of August 2006
/s/ Norman R. Holden, Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, Clerk
Budget Amendment #2
Fiscal Year 2006-2007
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session August 10, 2006 that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for funding from Fund Balance Revenue for Operations &
Maintenance of Rescue Ambulance, A/C replacement.
General Fund
                                Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section I
A.   Revenues Anticipated
      Fund Balance Appropr$4500            $3,558,899
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
      Rescue Squad
         R/M Vehicles  $4500            $3,558,899
 
ADOPTED this the 10th day of August, 2006
/s/ Norman R. Holden, Mayor
Attest:
Regina W. Alexander, Clerk
XIV.
Other Business
1994 CHEVROLET CAPRICE- CONVEY TO BSL POLICE DEPT.
City Manager Gandy informed the Board several years ago a reserve officer
donated a 1994 Chevrolet Caprice to the City. Grady Sillings who did reserve
work with the City resigned and will be doing reserve work with the Boiling
Spring Lakes Police Department. Chief Richard White asked if he could acquire
the unit to use as a reserve vehicle which can also be used as part of the
City’s mutual aid. City Manager Gandy stated after talking with the City
Attorney, it was determined that since the vehicle was donated, it would
require Board approval to convey the unit to the Boiling Spring Lakes Police
Department.
Alderman Brown moved to convey the 1994 Chevrolet Caprice to the Boiling Spring
Lakes Police Department, seconded by Alderman Childs, the vote of approval was
unanimous.
ROAD CLOSING – HOWE STREET
Mr. Gandy told the Board that a problem was discovered with the Howe Street
right of way as the title work for the property that was negotiated with Dosher
Hospital was being done. Attorney Isenberg said that Attorney Prevatte who did
the title work for the hospital on the property they are getting from the City
found the problem. On an old 1900 map, Howe Street went up to Fodale at one
time, and then from Fodale on it was called Cape Fear Road. The road took a 45º
turn at Fodale and there is an old right of way called Howe Street that runs
through the middle of the city’s property. In order for the City give a good
title to Dosher Hospital, it will be necessary to do a road closing procedure
to close the old road. He explained that it was never opened or used, but
technically, it is on an old recorded map. Dosher has asked the City to call
for the Public Hearing and the Board to consider closing the road.
Alderman Fisher moved to adopt the resolution to close the street and to set
public hearing on September 14, 2006, seconded by Alderman Brown, vote carried.
RESOLUTION TO CLOSE STREET
THAT WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport proposes to
permanently close that portion of the street known as Howe Street as shown on
the Farguson plat recorded in Map Book 1 at Pages 70-70A of the Brunswick
County Registry, said portion being bounded by Lee Avenue on the south, Block
14 of the Park View Addition on the west, the old Wilmington, Brunswick and
Southern Railroad and Jackson Place on the north, and Block 11 of the Park View
Addition on the east; and
WHEREAS, prior to the closing of said street, it is necessary for the Board of
Aldermen to hear all interested persons on the question of whether or not the
closing would be detrimental to the public interest, or the property rights of
any individual;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport pursuant to G. S. 160A-299 as follows:
1.   That the City of Southport intends to permanently close that portion of
the street as described above.
2.   That a public hearing on said closing shall be held at 7:30 p.m. on
September 14, 2006, at the Southport City Hall, 201 E. Moore Street, Southport,
N. C.
3.   That a copy of this resolution shall be published once a week for four (4)
successive weeks prior to the hearing, a copy hereof shall be sent by
registered or certified mail to all owners of property adjoining the public
road as shown on the county tax records, and a notice of the closing and public
hearing shall be prominently posted in at least two (2) places along said
street.
This the 15th day of August, 2006.
CITY OF SOUTHPORT
By:
/s/ Norman R. Holden
Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk
PARKING STUDY
City Manager Gandy gave Board members a copy of the Parking Study for Board’s
review. The Study will be presented formally at the September board meeting.
Mr. Gandy referenced the Board to a memorandum advising that the City of
Southport has been awarded a second grant for the Wastewater Treatment Reversal
project in the amount of 3 million dollars. Mr. Gandy thanked Mr. Robert
Howard, Chairman of the Clean Water Management Trust Fund and Bob Grant, Public
Services Director who wrote the grant application. ($4.67 million received
toward the project in the last 9 months) Alderman Fisher, Chairman of the
Wastewater Committee thanked staff and engineers who worked on the grant.
PLANNING BOARD – DALE MCPHERSON
Mayor Holden referenced the complaint filed against Mr. Dale McPherson, member
of the Planning Board. In discussion with the City Attorney, it was deemed that
this matter may not be continued until the next meeting because it was not on
the agenda. Mayor advised Mr. McPherson to request to be on the October agenda
in order for the Board to hear this matter.
Alderman Brown moved to place Mr. McPherson on the September 14 agenda,
seconded by Alderman Powell, the vote was unanimous.
STAR NEWS
Mayor Holden stated that the star news recently published misinformation about
the City. The article stated that the City of Southport did not have a plan for
Fort Johnston. Mayor Holden presented a copy of the city’s plan dated April 21,
2006, which was required by the Department of Interior for the application
process. Neither he nor staff was contacted to verify the information written
by the editorial staff of the star news. He will write a letter to the editor
and forward a copy of the information to him.
BOARD COMMENTS
Alderman Brown thanked staff for providing a copy of the financial breakdown
with the City’s share of the cost for the N. C. Fourth of July Festival, which
includes the Police Department and Public Works. ($26,260.92)
Alderman Fisher reported that the Wastewater Committee will schedule a meeting
with members of Congressman McIntyre’s office to seek federal grants in water,
sewer and electricity.
Alderman Fisher stated in order to dispel rumors that the Board is not doing
anything with the State Ports Authority regarding the International Port. He
stated that they have had five meetings to discuss transportation (road &
rail), infrastructure (water, sewer and electricity) and services. He
recommended that the City Manager contact the State Ports and invite them to
come for a Town Hall meeting to give the citizens opportunity to ask questions
about the Port. He asked that this be scheduled within the next two to three
weeks. Mayor requested an afternoon meeting.
Alderman Fisher reported as a result of attending the ElectriCities Conference,
several items were discussed i.e. mutual aid, self-generation programs,
underground electricity and others. The City’s Electric Committee will meet to
develop an action plan.
Alderman Fisher commended staff for a great job in preparing the application
submittal for Fort Johnston and the Clean Water Grant.
Rescue Squad water rescue equipment was given to the Brunswick County Sheriff’s
Department. The total value will be determined and reported. The Rescue Squad
has responded to 590 calls through July 2006 and in 2005, only 525 calls.
Alderman Fisher complimented the Squad on the improvement and great job.
Mayor Holden thanked the Board and staff for their support and work on the Fort
Johnston project including Senators Dole and Byrd’s staff, Representative
McIntyre and General Parker, the liaison between the Department of Defense and
City of Southport including the citizens.
ADJOURNMENT – 8:35 P.M.
No further business to come before the Board, Alderman Childs moved to adjourn,
seconded by Alderman Brown, vote carried.
/s/Norman R. Holden, Mayor
/s/Regina W. Alexander, CMC, City Clerk
SEPTEMBER 14, 2006
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
SEPTEMBER 14, 2006 7:30 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS  SOUTHPORT, N. C.
 
PRESENT:         Norman R. Holden, Mayor
            Aldermen Nelson Adams, Mary “Meezie” Childs, James Brown
            James Powell, Mary “Stuart” Callari and Paul Fisher
ABSENT:         None
STAFF PRESENT:      Rob Gandy, City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander, City Clerk
            Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
            Chad Hicks, City Planner
            J. V. Dove, Chief of Police
I.
Call to Order
Mayor Holden called the meeting to order at 7:35 p.m.
II.
Invocation
Alderman Brown delivered the invocation.
III.
Approval of Minutes
Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Brown to approve the minutes of the
August 10 and 15th meetings. Vote carried.
Chief Dove introduced Patrolman Richard Phelps, a former school teacher and
graduate of UNC-W who was recently hired as a Police Officer. Officer Phelps
expressed his gratitude for employment as a Police Officer with the City.
IV.
Citizen Matters (Non-Agenda)
There were no petitions from the floor.
V.
Public Hearing to permanently close that portion of the street known as Howe
Street as shown on the Farguson Plat recorded in Map Book 1 at Pages 70-7
A of the Brunswick County Registry
Alderman Callari moved to enter Public Hearing on the above subject, seconded
by Alderman Childs, vote carried.
There were no public comments on the matter to close a portion of the street
known as Howe Street as shown on the Farguson Plat. Alderman Callari moved to
close the Hearing, seconded by Alderman Childs, vote carried.
VI.
Review and adoption of Order to close street as described above
Alderman Fisher moved, seconded by Alderman Adams to adopt the following order
to close the street as described. Vote carried.
STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA
ORDER
BRUNSWICK COUNTY
THAT WHEREAS, G. S. 160A-299 requires that when a city proposes to permanently
close any street or public alley that the Board of Aldermen first adopt a
resolution declaring its intent to close said street or alley and calling for a
public hearing on the question; and
WHEREAS, G. S. 160A-299 further requires that the resolution to close the
street or alley be published once a week for four successive weeks prior to the
date of said hearing, that a copy thereof be sent by registered or certified
mail to all owners of property adjoining the portion of the street or alley to
be closed as shown on the county tax records, and that notice of the closing
and public hearing be prominently posted in at least two places along the
street or alley to be closed; and
WHEREAS, on August 15, 2006, the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport
passed a resolution proposing to close a certain portion of the street known as
Howe Street as shown on the Farguson plat recorded in Map Book 1 at Pages 70-
70A of the Brunswick County Registry, said portion being bounded by Lee Avenue
on the south, Block 14 of the Park View Addition on the west, the old
Wilmington, Brunswick and Southern Railroad and Jackson Place on the north, and
Block 11 of the Park View Addition on the east, and also calling for a public
hearing on said question; and
WHEREAS, the City of Southport has complied with all requirements of G. S.
160A-299, including the holding of the public hearing and the giving of all
required notice; and
WHEREAS, no portion of the street or alley to be closed is under the authority
or control of the Board of Transportation; and
WHEREAS, adjoining property owners and other persons were heard on the question
of whether or not the closing would be detrimental to the public interest or
the property rights of any individual; and
WHEREAS, it appears to the satisfaction of the Board of Aldermen after the
hearing that the closing of this road is not contrary to the public interest
and that no individual owning property in the vicinity of the road or in the
subdivision in which it is located would be deprived of reasonable means of
ingress and egress to their property and that the portion of said road
described above should be closed;
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED pursuant to G. S. 160A-299 as follows:
1.   That the following described portion of Howe Street is hereby closed:
That certain portion of Howe Street as shown in Map Book 1 At Pages 70-70A of
the Brunswick County Registry being bounded by Lee Avenue on the south, Block
14 of the Park View Addition on the west, the old Wilmington, Brunswick and
Southern Railroad and Jackson Place on the north, and Block 11 of the Park View
Addition on the east.
2.   That the City of Southport hereby reserves and retains all right, title
and interest in the utility improvements and easements, if any, located within
said road.
This the 14th day of September, 2006.
CITY OF SOUTHPORT
BY: /s/ Norman R. Holden, Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk
VII.
Public Hearing on the question of adopting an ordinance approving an annexation
agreement with the City of Boiling Spring Lakes allowing the City of Southport
to annex and prohibiting the City of Boiling Spring Lakes from annexing certain
property as described in the Notice of Public Hearing.
Alderman Childs moved, seconded by Alderman Callari to enter Public Hearing on
the annexation question, vote carried.
There were no public comments. Alderman Childs moved to close the Hearing,
seconded by Alderman Callari, vote carried.
VIII.
Adoption of Ordinance establishing Annexation Agreement with City of Boiling
Spring Lakes
Alderman Callari moved, seconded by Alderman Brown to approve the following
Ordinance establishing an annexation agreement between the City of Boiling
Spring Lakes and the City of Southport, vote was unanimous.
AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING AN ANNEXATION AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CITY OF BOILING
SPRING LAKES AND THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT
THAT WHEREAS, the City of Boiling Spring Lakes and the City of Southport, duly
incorporated municipalities under the laws of the State of North Carolina,
desire to enhance orderly planning by such municipalities , provide for future
development including necessary infrastructure, and eliminate uncertainty in
connection with said planning and future growth; and
WHEREAS, the governing boards of said municipalities also desire to avoid
potential conflict and confusion and to foster good intergovernmental
relations; and
WHEREAS, Chapter 160A, Article 4A, Part 6, of the North Carolina General
Statutes authorizes municipalities to enter into agreements designating areas
which are not subject to annexation by the participating municipalities;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED that the participating municipalities hereby
agree as follows:
1.   This Agreement is executed pursuant to the authority of Chapter 160A,
Article 4A, Part 6, of the North Carolina General Statutes.
2.   This Agreement shall terminate ten (10) years after its effective date.
3.   The City of Boiling Spring Lakes may not annex the following described
area:
   See Exhibit A attached hereto.
4.   The effective date of this Agreement shall be the date of adoption of the
approving ordinance by the last participating municipality to do so.
5.   The City of Boiling Spring Lakes hereby waives all statutory notice
requirements of annexation by the City of Southport during the term of this
Agreement for the areas described in this Agreement pursuant to G. S. 160A-
58.24(a)(5).
6.   This Agreement may be modified or terminated by a subsequent agreement
entered into by the participating municipalities pursuant to G. S. 160A-58.24
(d). Any subsequent agreement shall be approved by ordinance after the required
public hearings.
7.   This Agreement may be terminated unilaterally by a participating
municipality or a participating municipality may withdraw from the Agreement by
repealing the ordinance by which it approved the Agreement and providing five
years’ written notice to the other participating municipality. Upon the
expiration of the five-year period, this Agreement shall terminate.
8.   This writing contains the entire Agreement between the participating
municipalities.
Adopted by the Board of Commissioners of the City of Boiling Spring Lakes on
the ___ day of October 2006.
CITY OF BOILING SPRING LAKES
ATTEST:
______________________________      _______________________________
City Clerk               BY: Mayor
Adopted by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport on the 14th day
September 2006.
CITY OF SOUTHPORT
BY:
/S/ Norman R. Holden, Mayor
ATTEST:
/S/ Regina W. Alexander
City Clerk
(Note: Upon approval of the above document by the City of Boiling Spring Lakes
and duly executed by the Mayor, Ordinance will be on file in the Clerk’s
office)
IX.
Review and adoption of Resolution fixing date of Public Hearing on the question
of non-contiguous annexation pursuant to G.S. 160A-58.2 (out-parcel, NC 211,
south of Bank of America property)
Alderman Callari moved, seconded by Alderman Fisher to adopt the following
resolution fixing the date of public hearing on the above referenced property
to be held October 12, 2006, 7:30 p.m. Vote was unanimous.
RESOLUTION FIXING DATE OF PUBLIC HEARING ON THE QUESTION OF NON- CONTIGUOUS
ANNEXATION PURSUANT TO G.S. 160A-58.2
WHEREAS, a petition requesting annexation of the non-contiguous area described
herein has been received; and
WHEREAS, the City of Southport Board of Aldermen has by resolution directed the
City Clerk to investigate the sufficiency of the petition; and
WHEREAS, certification by the City Clerk as to the sufficiency of the petition
has been made;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport, North Carolina that:
Section 1.  A public hearing on the question of annexation of the non-
contiguous area described herein will be held at Southport City Hall at 7:30
p.m. on October 12, 2006.
Section 2. The area proposed for annexation is described as follows:
Beginning at a point, said point having Coordinates: NC 1983 Grid Coordinates
(in feet) (E) 2289254.951 (N) 74957.620, said point being North 82 Degrees 09
Minutes 04 Seconds East 443.60 Feet from NCGS Monument “Southport East Base”,
said monument having Coordinates: NC 1983 Grid (E) 2288815.507 (N) 74897.041,
said point of beginning being on the Northern right of way of NC 211;
Thence North 20 Degrees 17 Minutes 30 Seconds East 230.05 Feet to a point,
thence South 74 Degrees 18 Minutes 08 Seconds East 266.88 Feet to a point,
thence South 15 Degrees 41 Minutes 52 Seconds West 08.82 Feet to a point,
thence South 24 Degrees 29 Minutes 32 Seconds West 115.07 Feet to a point,
thence South 15 Degrees 41 Minutes 52 Seconds West 103.52 Feet to a point, said
point being on the Northern right of way line of NC 211, thence with said right
of way North 74 Degrees 18 Minutes 08 Seconds West 323.63 Feet to the point and
place of beginning, containing 1.66 Acres more or less.
Section 3. Notice of public hearing shall be published once in the State Port
Pilot, a newspaper having general circulation in the City of Southport at least
ten (10) days prior to the date of the public hearing.
Adopted this the 14th day of September 2006.
/s/ Norman R. Holden
Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk
(Tri City – Mendola)
Exhibit A
TRACT ONE:
BEING all of Tracts 2 and 4 containing a total of 406.40 acres as shown on a
plat entitled “ Plat of Boundary for Town of Southport” by Brunswick Surveying,
Inc., recorded in Map Cabinet 33 at Pages 438-439 of the Brunswick County
Registry, said tracts having the metes, bounds and locations shown thereon.
Being the same, property conveyed to the City of Southport in Book 2282 at Page
305 of the Brunswick County Registry.
TRACT TWO:
BEING all of Tract 1 containing 10.31 acres and Tract 2 containing 24.94 acres
according to a map for the Town of Southport by Withers & Ravenel-Brunswick
Surveying recorded in Map Cabinet 35 at Page 159 of the Brunswick County
Registry, said tracts having the metes, bounds and locations shown thereon.
Being the same property conveyed to the City of Southport in Book 2403 at Page
1368 of the Brunswick County Registry.
X.
Review of non-contiguous annexation petition submitted pursuant to G.S. 160A-
58.2 (Section of Dutchman Village property – Jeff Earp)
After review of the petition, Alderman Fisher, a member of the Sewer Committee
stated that the City could not provide sewer at this time and motioned to deny
the annexation petition, seconded by Alderman Childs, vote carried. (On
determination from City Attorney Isenberg, the satellite annexation statute
requires the Board to make a specific finding “that a city must stand ready to
provide sewer services to newly annexed areas on substantially the same basis
and in the same manner in which those services are provided to the rest of the
city.” )
XI.
Review of preliminary subdivision plat for the Yacht Basin Phase I project.
Mr. Chad Hicks, Planning Director recommended Yacht Basin Phase I be tabled
until the October meeting because the storm water plans for Phase I was tied
into Phase II and he wanted W.K. Dickson Engineer and Bob Grant, Public
Utilities Director to review both phases as one before Board approval.
XII.
Main Street Program
Mr. Randy Jones, Director of Tourism and Susan Farley, President of the
Southport Merchants Association, updated the Board on the work being done on
behalf of the N.C. Main Street Program. Mr. Jones explained that the City and
Southport merchants have worked cooperatively to promote the city’s image,
however; the issues facing downtown Southport today is growth, development and
tourism, which is going to affect the quality of life for everyone. In order to
identify, prioritize issues, create, and implement new solutions, they propose
to establish a non-profit membership organization as Downtown Southport Inc. to
accomplish established goals. It was requested that a member from the Board of
Aldermen be appointed to serve on the organizing committee along with
representatives from the Planning and Tourism Departments, and members of the
Southport Merchants Association. The first meeting of the Organizing Committee
is scheduled for Monday, October 2, 5:30 p.m. in the conference room of the
Aldermen Chambers. Alderman Fisher volunteered to be a member of the Committee
from the Board of Aldermen.
XIII.
Review of action plan for Stevens Park/Lowe White Park
Ms. Heather Hemphill, Director of Parks and Recreation, presented a tentative
timeline for redevelopment of Lowe/White Park for Board consideration.
Tentative Timeline for Redevelopment of Lowe/White Park
September through October 2006-Delineation study of wetlands on park property
Week 1 of October 2006- Move current building used to house the senior programs
from Stevens Park to site clearly out of wetland boundaries on Lowe/White Park
(See Note 1)
November 2006- Select and hire an architect to design Lowe/White Park based on
input received from Board of Aldermen, Recreation Committee and Public Survey
December 2006 - Present Architect design to Board of Aldermen for input and
approval
January 2007- Select contractors and begin construction of Lowe/White Park
improvements
June 30, 2007- Lowe/White Park opens to public
Notes
1.   As of September 6, 2006, many items have already been removed from the
Stevens Park property. Examples include the horseshoe pits, shuffleboard
courts, batting cage, and some picnic tables and benches. The basketball goals
and swing sets are the next scheduled equipment to be relocated.
2.   It is the recommendation of staff that remaining structures be demolished
due to the conditions of these structures as well as the costs associated with
moving them. It is our understanding that the structures that will not be moved
will be rebuilt by the developers of the Stevens Park Ball field and Recreation
Complex.
3.   The City of Southport has contacted the Cape Fear Trading Company about
obtaining a one-month extension to accomplish the goals outlined above. We hope
to hear back from the Company by the end of the week of September 15.
Mayor Holden recommended that a new survey be conducted to gauge public input
on the Lowe-White Park. Ms. Hemphill stated it would take at least one month to
get the survey circulated. The Board agreed that a new survey needs to be
conducted. Alderman Fisher suggested the survey inform the public that the
programs offered at Steven’s Park will carry over to Lowe-White to include
baseball fields. Mayor Holden asked Ms. Hemphill to be looking for an
alternative location to Steven’s Park.
XIV.
Complaint filed against a Planning Board Member – Dale McPherson
Mayor stated the matter concerning a complaint filed by three Planning Board
members regarding a conflict of interest was placed on the agenda because of
directives from the August meeting.
Mr. Dale McPherson, Planning Board member stated that he never recused himself
from voting concerning a change to the UDO, only in the case of Cottage Point
because he represents sales and marketing. He stated that Mr. Roy Pender
proposed about a year ago that the Board look at the Planned Unit Development
(PUD) and the amount of acreage required for a PUD. Mr. Pender asked him why
the Board would not consider this and he told him, “Roy, the thing for you to
do if you would like to address that again with the Board is for us not to have
a discussion about it; you go to the Board and talk about it. So Mr. Pender was
an advocate of having a five acre or minimum ten acres or whatever the Board
saw fit to reduce the amount of acreage needed for a PUD in Southport property
not to include the ETJ.” He explained that Mr. Pender came before the Board and
he did participate in the discussion as a Planning Board member. Mr. McPherson
told the Board of an instance where Mr. Terry Lee came before the Board about 5
years ago and discussed the fact that there was no middle of the road between a
33 ft. non-conforming lot and a 10,000 sq. ft. lot. He also tried to affect a
similar type change. Mr. McPherson stated that he has always been an advocate
for some middle of the road acreage for residential. He explained that he
recused himself many times but never in consideration of a change to a PUD. The
Planning Board did invite Mr. Pender to a workshop to give his points of view
and bring information from other areas that had lesser acreage for a PUD. Mr.
McPherson told the Board that Cottage Point did not have an application to be
considered, but may in the future. He referenced the complaint and noted that
he did not have a financial nor personal interest in the matter. “A change was
being considered to the UDO, not an application.” He explained during the
Planning Board’s Workshop, that it was unanimously decided to recommend a
change to the PUD. Mr. Emilita was asked to draft the wording and it would be
placed on the next Planning Board agenda. Mr. McPherson stated that he brought
it up because he thought that it was inadvertently left out of the packet since
Mr. Emilita was out of town. He stated when it came up, one of the Planning
Board members said that she wanted to read the wording and he told her; “we
have a City Attorney, and have a Planning Director who are quite capable of
getting the verbiage together, it is not a big deal; it is just a matter of do
we want to decrease the minimum acreage in the Southport property.” Everyone
had decided that it was a good move and he failed to see where Cottage Point
has anything to do with this except for the fact that they continue to acquire
property and will possibly at some point, give up constructing condo and
develop a PUD. He did not realize that anyone had a problem with the motion
made on July 20, until eight days after the meeting when a complaint was filed
with the City Manager, and he found out eight days later, not realizing that
his character would be challenged.
There being no discussion or questions from the Board, Alderman Powell motioned
to send this issue back to the Planning Board and let them revisit this matter.
If the Planning Board deems a problem, send a recommendation to the Board of
Aldermen. Motion seconded by Alderman Fisher. Six Ayes: Aldermen Fisher, Adams,
Childs, Brown, Powell, and Callari. 0 Nays: Motion carried.
Attorney Isenberg stated that Mr. Emilita completed a draft language for the
PUD minimum required acreage.
XV.
PUBLIC POWER WEEK – RESOLUTION
Alderman Callari motioned, seconded by Alderman Fisher to adopt the following
resolution proclaiming the week of October 1 – 7, 2006 as Public Power Week.
Vote carried.
RESOLUTION PROCLAIMING OCTOBER 1-7, 2006 AS PUBLIC POWER WEEK IN THE CITY OF
SOUTHPORT, NORTH CAROLINA
WHEREAS, the City of Southport provides reliable electricity to its citizens;
and
WHEREAS, the citizens of Southport are consumers and owners of their public
power Systems and exercise local control over utility operations and policies;
and
WHEREAS, our employees are neighbors serving neighbors; and
WHEREAS, our electric system is a community asset that contributes to the well-
being of citizens by providing safe and reliable power, excellent local
customer service and economic development opportunities; and
WHEREAS, our community is one of more than 70 public power cities and towns in
North Carolina, and more than 2,000 public power systems in the United States.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the City of Southport, North Carolina, does
hereby proclaim October 1 through October 7, 2006, as “Public Power Week” in an
effort to promote public power and those who work in our cities and towns to
provide the best possible electric service for our citizens.
DULY ADOPTED this the 14th day of September 2006.
/s/ Norman R. Holden
Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
City Clerk
XVI.
Tax Releases
Alderman Fisher motioned to approve the following tax releases, seconded by
Alderman Brown, vote carried.
Bill /Parcel # Name /Acct #    Date Amt Released Value Released Reason for
                                                                Release
               Alice et Willie                                  Lot 11 on
237EG001       Brown           2001 32.64        8,160          parcel
                                                                237EG00101
“ “        “ “         2002 32.64        8,160          “ “ “
“ “        “ “         2003 70.22        21,280         “ “ “
“ “        “ “         2004 63.84        21,280         “ “ “
“ “        “ “         2005 57.45        21,280         “ “ “
238HD017       Harvey Ramsey   2003 91.08        27,600         Incorrect sq.
                                                                footage
“ “        “ “         2004 82.80        27,600         “ “ “
“ “        “ “         2005 74.52        27,600         “ “ “
2620           Vicki Pelfrey   2005 2.90         995            Boat was sold
                                                                in 2004
TOTAL                               508.09
 
XVII.
Bids for three F-250 Ford Trucks and Backhoe
Ms. Miller, Finance Director stated two informal bids were received for three
Ford F-250 trucks for the Street Department and two informal bids for a Case
580 Super M2 Loader backhoe. She recommended the Board approve the purchase of
three F-250 trucks from Jones Ford and the backhoe from Briggs Equipment.
Alderman Powell motioned to approve the bid award and accept the recommendation
of the finance officer, seconded by Alderman Childs, vote carried.
XVIII.
Other Business
Fort Johnston Committee: Alderman Childs reported that the Fort Johnston
Committee has met several times. The Parks and Recreation Committee members
have been invited to meet with the Fort Johnston Committee on Tuesday to look
at the facility and discuss office space. The Committee recommends that the
Parks & Recreation Director move into the Garrison House along with Randy
Jones, Director of Tourism, in order to have someone occupying the space per
grant requirement. The Committee will meet with other citizens interested in
helping with the project.
Yard Debris – In answer to a question by Alderman Powell, City Manager Gandy
explained that Waste Industries was asked to expand their yard waste pick-up
for storm debris, which took them two weeks to do. This was done at no cost to
the city and if anything is left out, he and the Public Services Director will
insure that it is picked up.
Alderman Fisher complimented the City Manager, Utility Director and staff for
their work on the wastewater projects. During Phase I, the city recouped 80,000
gallons from infiltration, which was the first project. On the second project,
the city gained approximately 65,000 to 75,000 gallons towards its goal of
recouping 160,000 gallons.
The reversal project with a goal of 200,000 is operating; he stated that the
city is currently sending approximately 165,000 gallons per day to the Sanitary
District.
Northwood Cemetery – Alderman Fisher complimented staff on the appearance of
Northwood Cemetery.
Parking Study – Mr. Randy Jones, Parking Consultant will be present to discuss
the parking study at the October meeting.
XIV.
Adjournment – 8:25 P.M.
No further business, Alderman Childs motioned to adjourn, seconded by Alderman
Brown, vote carried.
___________________________________
Norman R. Holden, Mayor
____________________________
Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
OCTOBER 12, 2006
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
OCTOBER 12, 2006  7:30 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, N. C.
 
MEMBERS PRESENT:   James Brown, Mayor Pro Tempore’
            Aldermen Mary “Meezie” Childs, Nelson E. Adams and
            Mary “Stuart” Callari
MEMBERS ABSENT:   Norman Holden, Mayor
            Aldermen Paul Fisher and James Powell
STAFF PRESENT:      Rob Gandy, City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander, CMC-City Clerk
            Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
            Chad Hicks, Planning Director
I.
Call To Order – 7:30 p.m.
Mayor Pro Tem Brown called the regular monthly meeting of the City Council to
order at 7:30 p.m.
II.
Invocation
Mayor Pro Tem Brown delivered the invocation.
III.
Minutes
Alderman Callari moved, seconded by Alderman Childs to approve the minutes from
the September 14 meeting. Vote carried.
IV.
Citizen Matters (Non-Agenda)
There were no petitions from the floor.
V.
Public Hearing on a request by Tri-City, Inc. for non-contiguous annexation
(Property located as out-parcel in front of Lowe’s Home Improvement Center
There were no comments from the Public. Alderman Childs moved to close the
hearing, seconded by Alderman Callari, vote carried.
Alderman Callari moved, seconded by Alderman Childs to adopt the annexation
ordinance for non-contiguous annexation for Tri-City. Vote was unanimous.
AN ORDINANCE TO EXTEND THE CORPORATE LIMITS OF THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT, NORTH
CAROLINA
(Non-Contiguous)
WHEREAS, the City of Southport has been petitioned under G.S.160A-58.1 to annex
the area described below; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen has by resolution directed the City Clerk to
investigate the sufficiency of the petition; and
WHEREAS, the City Clerk has certified the sufficiency of the petition and a
public hearing on the question of this annexation was held at Southport City
Hall at 7:30 p.m. on October 12, 2006, after due notice by publication in the
Wilmington Star News, September 30, 2006; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen finds that the area described therein meets the
standards of G.S. 160A-58.1(b), as modified by act of the General Assembly
applicable to the City of Southport and in accordance with an Annexation
Agreement between the City of Southport and the Town of St. James, to wit:
a.    The nearest point on the proposed satellite corporate limits is not more
than three (3) miles from the corporate limits of the City of Southport;
b.    No point on the proposed satellite corporate limits is closer to another
municipality than to the City of Southport except for the Town of St. James and
the City of Southport and Town of St. James have entered into an annexation
agreement pursuant to G.S. 160A-58.21 et seq. allowing the City of Southport to
annex and prohibiting the Town of St. James from annexing said property;
c.    The area described is so situated that the City of Southport will be able
to provide the same services within the proposed satellite corporate limits
that it provides within the primary corporate limits;
d.    No subdivision, as defined in G.S. 160A-376, will be fragmented by this
proposed annexation, and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that the petition has been signed
by all the owners of real property in the area who are required by law to sign;
and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that the petition is otherwise
valid, and that the public health, safety and welfare of the City of Southport
and of the area proposed for annexation will be best served by annexing the
area described;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of Southport, North
Carolina that:
Section 1. By virtue of the authority granted by G.S. 160A-58.2, the following
described non-contiguous territory is hereby annexed and made part of the City
of Southport effective immediately.
SEE EXHIBIT A
Section 2. Upon and after October 12, 2006 the above-described territory and
its citizens and property shall be subject to all debts, laws, ordinances and
regulations in force in the City of Southport and shall be entitled to the same
privileges and benefits as other parts of the City of Southport. Said territory
shall be subject to municipal taxes according to G.S. 160A-58.10
Section 3.  The Mayor of the City of Southport shall cause to be recorded in
the office of the Register of Deeds of Brunswick County, and in the office of
the Secretary of State at Raleigh, North Carolina, an accurate map of the
annexed territory, described in Section 1 above, together with a duly certified
copy of this ordinance. Such a map shall also be delivered to the County Board
of Elections as required by G. S. 163-288.1.
ADOPTED this the12th day of October 2006.
/s/ James C. Brown
James Brown, Mayor Pro Tempore
ATTEST:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Regina W. Alexander, CMC
Clerk
EXHIBIT A
Beginning at a point, said point having Coordinates: NC 1983 Grid Coordinates
(in feet) (E) 2289254.951 (N) 74957.620, said point being North 82 Degrees 09
Minutes 04 Seconds East 443.60 Feet from NCGS Monument Southport East Base,
said monument having Coordinates: NC 1983 Grid (E) 2288815.507 (N) 74897.041,
said point of beginning being on the Northern right of way of NC 211;
Thence North 20 Degrees 17 Minutes 30 Seconds East 230.05 Feet to a point,
thence South 74 Degrees 18 Minutes 08 Seconds East 266.88 Feet to a point,
thence South 15 Degrees 41 Minutes 52 Seconds West 08.82 Feet to a point,
thence South 24 Degrees 29 Minutes 32 Seconds West 115.07 Feet to a point,
thence South 15 Degrees 41 Minutes 52 Seconds West 103.52 Feet to a point, said
point being on the Northern right of way line of NC 211, thence with said right
of way North 74 Degrees 18 Minutes 08 Seconds West 323.63 Feet to the point and
place of beginning, containing 1.66 Acres more or less.
(Tri-City – Mendola)
VI.
Public Hearing on request by Southport Development Associates, LLC to rezone
five parcels of property located on the corner of Stuart Avenue and N. Atlantic
Avenue from R-20 (Residential Agricultural District, single and two family
residences with 20,000 square foot minimum) to R-10 (Residential District,
single and two family residences with 10,000 square foot minimum).
Mayor Pro Tem Brown stated that Attorney Prevatte requested this matter be
tabled until the November meeting. Alderman Callari motioned to table Item VI,
seconded by Alderman Childs. Vote carried.
VII.
Public Hearing on request by Cape Fear Trading Group for a Conditional Use
Permit for Mixed Use Development (commercial/residential) Yacht Basin Phase II
Project
Mayor Pro Tem Brown stated that Item VII would be discussed at the meeting on
Friday, October 13.
VIII.
Public Hearing on recommendation by the Southport Planning Board to consider
revising Section 14-1 of the Southport Unified Development Ordinance by
replacing in its entirety as follows: Five acres of net buildable area within
the City corporate limits, one or more contiguous parcels and: Twenty-five
acres of net buildable area in the ETJ, on one or more parcels (this may
include parcels on both sides of the street)
Alderman Childs moved, seconded by Alderman Callari to enter Public Hearing on
the recommendation submitted by the Planning Board to revise Section 14-1 of
the Southport Unified Development ordinance as referenced above. Vote carried.
There were no public comments
Alderman Callari motioned, seconded by Alderman Childs to close the Public
Hearing and re-enter regular session. Vote carried.
Mayor Pro Tem Brown stated that the Board would discuss this matter on Friday
before formal action is taken.
IX.
Preliminary Plat – 9th Street Subdivision
Mr. Hicks, Planning Director presented the preliminary plat for the 9th Street
Subdivision and recommended approval. Alderman Callari moved, seconded by
Alderman Childs to approve the preliminary plat upon recommendation of staff.
The vote carried. (Cape Fear Trading Group – Rod Hyson)
X.
Final Plat – Southwynd at Forest Oaks
Mr. Hicks presented the final plat for Southwynd at Forest Oaks for review and
approval. A memo was provided in the Board’s agenda packet giving an overview
of the final plat and staff recommended approval subject to Mr. Bryan English
paying his share of the outstanding water interconnect fee for improvements
before dedication of utilities are considered.
Alderman Callari moved to accept the final plat contingent upon the outstanding
balance of the water interconnect fee being paid before dedication of
utilities. Alderman Childs seconded the motion. The vote was unanimous.
XI.
Deferred to October 13
XII.
Deferred to October 13
XIII.
Deferred to October 13
XIV.
Proposal to Outsource Utility and Tax Bills – Finance Director
Ms. Miller, Finance Director presented a proposal by Arista for the outsourcing
of printing utility and tax bills. The cost analysis showed a savings of
$12,000 per year compared to printing in-house. The company will be able to
provide mailing insert capabilities such as water quality reports, energy
savings tips, etc. at no extra cost. If approved, this is a 26-month contract.
Alderman Callari moved, seconded by Alderman Adams to approve the proposal with
Arista to outsource utility and tax bills per recommendation of Ms. Miller,
Finance Director. The vote was unanimous. (Arista Contract Incorporated as
Attachment #1)
XV.
BUDGET AMENDMENTS NUMBERS 3, 4, 5 and 6
Alderman Callari moved to approve budget amendments numbers 3, 5 and 6,
seconded by Alderman Adams, vote carried.
Budget Amendment #3
Fiscal Year 2006-2007
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session October 12, 2006 that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for funding from Fund Balance for the land purchase from
Dosher MemorialHospital for the Fire Department
General Fund
                                Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section I
A.   Revenues Anticipated
      Fund Balance Appropr$187,769.68      $3,746,668.68
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
   Fire Dept.
         Capital Purcha$187,769.68      $3,746,668.68
 
ADOPTED this the 12th day of October, 2006
S/Mayor Norman R. Holden
Attest:
S/Regina W. Alexander, Clerk
Budget Amendment #5
Fiscal Year 2006-2007
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session October 12, 2006 that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for revenues received by Southport Lions Foundation to the
Parks & Recreation Department for the Kids Fishing Tournament.
General Fund
                               Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section I
A.   Revenues Anticipated
      Misc. Revenue      $1200            3,747,868.68
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
      Parks & Recreation
         Special Event$1200            3,747,868.68
 
ADOPTED this the 12th day of October, 2006
S/Mayor Norman R. Holden
Attest:
S/Regina W. Alexander, Clerk
Budget Amendment #6
Fiscal Year 2006-2007
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session October 12, 2006 that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for correcting line items in Tourism Department. There is
no change in budget
General Fund
                            Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section I
Appropriated Expenditures
      Tourism
         Early Reti(6255)
         Heath Insu4225e
         401K Retir(970)
      R/M Comm Buildin1000
         R/M Visito2000nter
                            0.00
 
ADOPTED this the 12th day of October, 2006
S/Mayor Norman R. Holden
Attest:
S/Regina W. Alexander, Clerk
Mayor Pro Tem Brown stated that budget amendment # 4 would be deferred until
Friday, October 13.
XVI.
RECESS
There being no further business to consider, Mayor Pro Tem Brown called for the
motion to recess until Friday, October 13, 2006 at 7:00 p.m. Alderman Callari
moved, seconded by Alderman Adams. The vote of approval was unanimous.
OCTOBER 13, 2006
RECESSED SESSION
 
OCTOBER 13, 2006
RECESSED SESSION 7:30 P.M.
 
PRESENT:         Norman R. Holden, Mayor
            Aldermen Jim Brown, Nelson Adams, James Powell,
            Meezie Childs, Stuart Callari and Paul Fisher
STAFF PRESENT:      Regina W. Alexander, CMC-City Clerk
            Chad Hicks, Planner
STAFF ABSENT:      Rob Gandy, City Manager
            Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
I.
Call To Order – 7:00 p.m.
Mayor Holden called the recessed meeting to order at 7:03 p.m. He announced
that those agenda items tabled from Thursday’s meeting would be considered.
II.
Public Hearing on request by Cape Fear Trading Group for a Conditional use
Permit for Mixed Use Development (commercial/residential) Yacht Basin Phase II
project.
Mayor Holden announced that this item was tabled at the request of Attorney
Roundtree until November 9, 2006 Board of Aldermen meeting.
III.
Action on recommendation by the Southport Planning Board to consider revising
Section 14-1 of the Southport Unified Development Ordinance by replacing in its
entirety as follows: Five (5) acres of net buildable area within the City
corporate limits, on one or more contiguous parcels and: Twenty five (25) acres
of net buildable area in the ETJ, on one or more parcels (this may include
parcels on both sides of the street) (Public Hearing held Thursday, October 12)
Aldermen Childs stated some concerns were presented to her about reducing the
Planned Unit Development (PUD) threshold for PUD’s in the city limit from the
current 25 acres to the proposed 5 acres. Mr. Hicks stated that the 5 acres
were the result of discussion by Planning Board members who received
information from other towns comparable to Southport. The Planning Board came
up with 5 acres due to the limited number of tracts of land in Southport’s
corporate limits. He explained that staff and the Planning Board believes
reducing the size of the PUD will result in better control in determining what
goes into it and will afford more opportunity for PUD’s to be used in the
process. Alderman Childs suggested 7-acre tracts.
Alderman Adams asked why reduce the size of acreage for PUDS within the
corporate city limits and not the ETJ. He stated in some instances, the ETJ may
be five feet from the city line and the same should apply. Mr. Hicks stated, if
it is the Board’s desire, the Planning Board could look at the same for the
ETJ. He explained even if the acreage is reduced, the Board of Aldermen is
under no obligation to grant a PUD. Alderman Adams stated he is not against the
reduction, but believes it should be larger than 5 acres.
Alderman Brown stated he does not have a problem with reducing the number, but
believes that 25 acres is high for the city.
No further discussion, Alderman Powell moved to amend Section 14-1 of the
Unified Development Ordinance, seconded by Alderman Adams. Vote carried.
Section 14-1: Minimum Size
Eight (8) acres of net buildable area within the city corporate limits, on one
or more contiguous parcels.
Twenty-five (25) acres of net buildable area in the ETJ, on one or more parcels
(this may include parcels on both sides of a street)
IV.
Southport Parking Study – Randy Jones of Lanier Parking Systems
Alderman Fisher explained that Mr. Jones would present the results of the
Parking Study performed at the behest of the Parking Committee. He explained
that the Parking Committee will review the recommendations as a Committee and
will present them to the Board for consideration or implementation.
Mr. Randy Jones of Lanier Parking presented a power-point presentation on the
parking situation in Southport. The study area contained 14 blocks surrounding
the intersection of Moore and Howe Streets. He explained that this is the core
parking area where most of the parking activity occurs for City Hall and
downtown businesses. A detailed analysis was conducted on a block level;
inventory of parking facilities conducted for the entire study area, data
collected through a survey of 12 block faces over an eight-hour period. The
parking demand was then calibrated to reflect seasonal variations and future
growth. Seasonal variations were assumed to be +30% while future growth
projected to increase by 7% compounded over a 3-year period. Mr. Jones in his
report stated that based on the survey; there are 172 spaces in the core area
of downtown and another 826 in close proximity. The report contained a table
showing these parking areas. He stated that the city needs to plan for future
parking due to development. He recommended that the 2-hour time limit be
expanded in other areas and enforced. He also enumerated the economic benefits
and losses pertaining to parking. He talked about the possibility of installing
parking meters along Bay Street and charging for use of the city pier. Alderman
Adams stated his opposition to parking meters. Mayor stated that the City Pier
was constructed with grant monies and do not believe the city would be in
compliance with grant requirements if it charged for use of the city pier.  The
report contained additional information and recommendations for Board
consideration. The Parking Study in its entirety is on file in the office of
the Clerk.
The Board thanked Mr. Jones for a thorough and informative report.
V.
Report on Brunswick County Airport – Owen Gardner, Board Member and Howie
Franklin, Airport Manager
Mr. Gardner, member of the Brunswick County Airport Board stated that
approximately one month ago they received an in-kind donation of 15 acres of
land on the west side of the airport which match federal requirements for
expansion of the runway. He stated no local matching funds are due because of
the value of the property. He told the Board at the end of the first quarter of
this fiscal year, jet fuel sales were up 38% over last year.  The airport
website address is www.brunswickcountyairport.net, and citizens may call 457-
1710 to obtain the current weather, temperature, wind velocity and visibility.
The airport’s major concern now is to obtain funding to move the airport road.
This may be delayed but they are working diligently to speed up the process
because the road has to be moved in order to expand the runway.
Mr. Howie Franklin, Airport Manager showed the Board a copy of the Southern
Aviator who in March selected Brunswick County’s Airport as the “best in the
south” and the Atlantic Flyer wrote an article on Brunswick County Airport
stating, “This was a place that once you came here, you may not want to leave.”
Mr. Franklin presented a copy of the “Economic Impact of North Carolina
Airports – 2006 Study” which showed an economic impact of $26,178,600 per year.
The airport also provides the county with a significant source of property tax
revenue with 39 based aircrafts at a calculated value of $12,445,000, which
would result in ad valorem taxes of $67,200 based on the county rate of $0.54
per $100. The study estimated that there were 17,100 visitors to the area who
utilized the Airport. Mr. Franklin stated that Brunswick County is a General
Aviation Airport, which equates to a non-air carrier airport and talked about
the significance of the small GA Airports. Mr. Franklin explained after a
question from Mayor Holden that it is their goal to construct four (4)
additional hangars once the land is purchased. The Airport currently has a
demand for 58 hangars. Board members thanked airport representatives for the
report. In closing, Mr. Franklin announced that October 28 is Black Aviation
Day and the Jack and Jill Corporation of Wilmington will be in attendance.
VI.
Release of contingency funds for relocation of the 55 and over clubhouse and
Review of budget amendment #4
Mayor Holden recommended that the name of the 55 and Over Clubhouse be changed
once it is relocated.
Alderman Fisher stated that the Cape Fear Trading Group withdrew their original
offer to build the baseball fields and swimming pool, however through
negotiations; they agreed that they would donate land for the pool and fields
to the City. They are in the process of preparing the deed with language
stating that the City of Southport is not obligated time wise to build the ball
fields or swimming pool within a given period. Staff is communicating with
Brunswick Community College, the County and school system trying to locate
three fields for the 2007 baseball season. The Director of Parks and Recreation
has met with a grant writer to assist in applying for grants, they are waiting
on the 404 wet land delineation study for the Lowe-White Park and they do not
have a place to move the 55 and Over Clubhouse.
Alderman Adams questioned ownership of the building and its membership.
Alderman Fisher stated that membership is open to anyone. Ms. Hemphill,
Director of Parks and Recreation explained that the Club meets every Monday and
Wednesday, they are very active and the only thing that she has to go by is the
documentation that was in place when she was hired and what has been told to
her by the former Parks & Recreation Director, Joe Medlin. She explained that
once the building is moved, they could discuss policy change and put a line
item in her budget next fiscal year for seniors. She explained that the Parks &
Recreation Department uses the building for summer camp and to her knowledge;
no one has ever been turned away for membership. She would prefer that the
policy be changed, rather than demolish the building. Ms. Hemphill stated that
she assists with their programs by scheduling trips. She stated the group will
meet at the Jaycees Building until arrangements can be made for the Club House.
Alderman Childs asked about Fort Johnston and Ms. Hemphill stated this could be
an option. Ms. Hemphill explained that the city has 11 acres at the Lowe White
Park but until the wetland delineation study is completed, they cannot place
anything at Lowe-White. Alderman Brown asked about the condition of the
building i.e., the value. Ms. Hemphill stated the building contains 2200 square
feet. Mr. Strickland, Building Inspector has looked at the building but made no
comments on the condition. Mayor Holden stated the building will have to be
moved and the funds need to be transferred. Mayor Holden communicated that he
has been talking with a person from one of the plants about a ball field and
suggested staff contact ADM and Progress Energy to ascertain if they have a
temporary location to place the building. Mayor Holden asked Ms. Hemphill to
inform the 55 & Over Club that the name will no longer be the 55 & Over Club
once the building is moved, but a Sr. Citizen Building.
Alderman Callari moved, seconded by Alderman Fisher to transfer $15,000 from
Board Contingency to Parks and Recreation Capital Outlay Fund. The vote of
approval was 5- ayes: Aldermen Callari, Fisher, Powell, Childs and Brown. 1-
no, Alderman Adams. Motion passed.
Budget Amendment #4
Fiscal Year 2006-2007
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session October 12, 2006 that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for funding from Board Contingency to the Park &
Recreation Department for construction cost to move the 55 and Over Building.
 General Fund
                               Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section I
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
      Board
         Contingency  (15,000)
      Park & Recreation
         Capital Outla15,000           no change
 
ADOPTED this the 12th day of October, 2006
S/Mayor Norman R. Holden
Attest:
S/Regina W. Alexander, Clerk
VII.
Other Business
Rescue Squad – Tammy Drew, Rescue Squad Chief informed the Board during the
last quarter the Rescue Squad answered 100% of its calls.
Fort Johnston Committee – Alderman Childs stated the Fort Johnston Committee
met with a contractor about making the Garrison House handicap accessible.
-Fort Johnston Committee request some directives be given to the City Manager
about moving the Parks & Recreation Department to Fort Johnston and some of its
programs. Ms. Hemphill has selected the office they wish to occupy and the
Committee wishes to move forward with the Garrison House. The Committee
recommends the Parks and Recreation Director’s office be located upstairs in
the Garrison House. Mayor stated it is the consensus of the Board that the City
Manager moves forward with the recommendation of the Committee. Alderman
Callari stated that funds are need for furniture. Mayor suggested looking into
Prison Enterprise for furniture.
Taxes – Alderman Fisher requested a letter of invitation be sent to Mr. Tom
Bagley, Tax Administrator inviting him to hold a public forum in Southport the
month of January or February to discuss the tax revaluation. Mayor suggested
waiting until after the election and send a copy of the letter to the Chairman
of the County Commissioners.
ADJOURNMENT – 8:35 P.M.
No further business, Alderman Childs moved to adjourn the meeting, seconded by
Alderman Brown, vote carried.
/s/ James C. Brown, Mayor Pro Tempore’
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, CMC-Clerk
NOVEMBER 9, 2006
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
NOVEMBER 9, 2006  7:30 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
MEMBERS PRESENT:   James C. Brown, Mayor Pro Tempore’
            Aldermen Mary “Meezie” Childs, Nelson E. Adams,
            Mary “Stuart” Callari and James F. Powell
MEMBERS ABSENT:   Norman R. Holden, Mayor
            Paul Fisher, Alderman
STAFF PRESENT:      Rob Gandy, City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander, CMC, City Clerk
            Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
            Chad Hicks, City Planner
I.
Call to Order
Mayor Pro Tem Brown called the meeting to order at 7:30 p.m.
II.
Invocation
Mayor Pro Tem Brown delivered the invocation.
III.
Minutes
Alderman Callari moved, seconded by Alderman Powell to approve the minutes from
the October 12 and recessed meeting of October 13. Vote carried.
IV.
Citizen Matters (Non-Agenda)
Mayor Pro Tem Brown acknowledged and welcomed Mayor Kinney, City of Boiling
Spring Lakes, Mayor Shelley Lesher, Town of St. James, and County Commissioner
May Moore.
Mr. William Comninaki, Consultant to Tri-City, Inc., Morehead Farms, Inc and
Dilsheimer Communities of North Carolina, LLC requested to speak about a
proposal submitted to the North Carolina Department of Transportation. He
communicated that he does not believe the State is offering many solutions in
what they have proposed for Brunswick County’s needs for roads. He believes
that the proposal for a two-lane connector by the State will only magnify
traffic congestion in and around Southport. They have proposed an alternative
plan for a four-lane parkway that will draw traffic flow north of the current
bottlenecks. He communicated that he has been in contact with DOT
representatives and they appear positive in their response to their proposal.
Handouts were given to Board members i.e. a map. Following are excerpts from
the proposal:
“Brunswick County’s blistering population growth in recent years, along with
its remarkable popularity with summer vacationers, makes proposed plans for the
133 Connector inadequate to current and future needs. There is an alternative
that we believe is more practical, economical and environmentally friendly.
Please find enclosed several mapping images that support this alternative
vision.
The roadways we are proposing as an alternative conforms to the Preliminary
thoroughfare Plan Improvements for Brunswick County dated 9/29/2000; a document
prepared by the N. C. Department of Transportation’s Statewide Planning Branch.
We are confident our plan represents the vastly more sensible alternative based
on the following considerations:
·   Our roadway’s design is that of a four lane connector “parkway,” stretching
from the intersection of Oak island Road and Highway 211 through to Highway 87-
well beyond existing intersections congested by commercial development;
·   The four-lane parkway, with its 300-foot right of way, can safely
accommodate a speed limit of 55 miles per hour.
·   The parkway’s capacity and other design features make it far more effective
as a hurricane evacuation route;
·   The parkway’s design will create no significant impact on existing
commercial and residential development;
·   Property owners along the right of way have expressed receptiveness to this
alternative, reducing the prospects that condemnation will be necessary;
·   The parkway’s design will leave ample space for new highway infrastructure
that may be needed in order to accommodate the proposed North Carolina
International Port complex at Southport;
·   The parkway can be under construction as early as 2007, with no impact on
existing traffic flows; and
·   The parkway represents a considerable cost savings for the State of North
Carolina.
Another key advantage to this alternative is our intention to propose that this
project be front loaded with private funding pursuant to a public private
partnership whereby the State of North Carolina repays investors pursuant to
terms agreed upon by all parties.”
Mayor Pro Tem Brown and the Board thanked Mr. Comninaki for this presentation.
V.
Public Hearing on request by Walter Knott for a Conditional Use Permit for
Mixed Use Development (commercial/residential), Leggett Building renovation,
114 East Moore Street.
Mayor Pro Tem Brown called the motion to enter public hearing. Alderman Powell
moved, seconded by Alderman Callari to enter public hearing for a conditional
use permit. The vote of approval was unanimous.
Chad Hicks, Planning Director stated that all requirements were met in
accordance with the Unified Development Ordinance and staff recommends approval
There were no public comments.
Alderman Childs moved, seconded by Alderman Callari to re-enter regular
session, vote carried. Alderman Childs asked to be recused from voting since
she and her brother owned property next door to the Leggett Building. Alderman
Adams motioned to recuse Alderman Childs, seconded by Alderman Callari, vote
carried.
Alderman Callari moved, seconded by Alderman Adams to approve the Conditional
Use Permit for mixed use development (commercial/residential) Leggett Building
renovation complying with the following: 1) that the use will not materially
endanger the public health, safety, or general welfare if located where
proposed and developed according to the plan as submitted and approved, 2) that
the use meets all required conditions and specifications, 3) that the use will
not adversely affect the use or any physical attribute of adjoining or abutting
property, or that the use is a public necessity, and 4) that the location and
character of the use, if developed according to the plan as submitted and
approved, will be in harmony with the area in which it is to be located and in
general conformity with the City of Southport’s Land Use Plan. The votes of
approval were 3 ayes, Aldermen Powell, Callari and Adams. Motion carried.
(Alderman Childs recused from the vote)
VI.
Cynthia Tart, Communities and Schools Coordinator-Presentation on Brunswick
County Events Center
Ms. Cynthia Tart, Director of Communities in Schools for Brunswick County made
a presentation to the Board and asked for support in establishing a Brunswick
County Events Center by adopting a resolution.
Alderman Childs moved to adopt the following resolution in support of the
Events Center, motion seconded by Alderman Callari, vote carried.
RESOLUTION IN SUPPORT OF A BRUNSWICK COUNTY COASTAL EVENTS CENTER
WHEREAS, the County of Brunswick has many items to be justly proud of, and the
strength of the people merits the display of the talents and abilities of the
residents of the County, coming from diverse places, with differing backgrounds
and different horizons, and
WHEREAS, it is the desire of the County that there be such a place for the
people of the County to gather to view the fruits of the land and of the
people, to congregate, to deliberate, to plan, to exchange views and engage in
commerce and to help in providing for the growth of Brunswick County, and
WHEREAS, the provision of such a place will be expensive, in terms of hours
consumed, in terms of money, in terms of planning, and in terms of providing
the best possible place for the best possible Coastal Events Center that a
County can have, and
WHEREAS, it is the desire of all involved that the Brunswick County Coastal
Events Center be an example for other counties to follow, that the quality and
superlative nature of the Coastal Events Center should befit its namesake, and
outshine all others.
NOW, THEREFORE, the City of Southport Board of Aldermen are hereby resolved to
wholeheartedly support a BRUNSWICK COUNTY COASTAL EVENTS CENTER, one that
deserves and preserves the high quality of the County, and will be a permanent
example of good people working together with good people to retain a history of
a place named Brunswick.
DULY RESOLVED THIS THE 9th DAY OF NOVEMBER 2006.
/s/ James C. Brown
Mayor Pro-Tempore
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
VII.
Contract between City of Southport and W.K. Dickson for Engineering Services –
Phase II Wastewater Enhancement Project
Mr. Bob Grant, Public Services Director, presented the contract for engineering
services with W. K. Dickson Engineers. The fee amount is $1,311,000 and of this
amount, $225,320 has been billed and paid from his professional services line
item. The Utility Committee reviewed the contract and requested it be forwarded
to the Board of Aldermen
Alderman Childs moved, seconded by Alderman Powell to approve the contract with
W. K. Dickson and authorize the City Manager to execute it on behalf of the
City. Vote of approval was unanimous. (Copy of contract incorporated as
Attachment #1)
VIII.
Preliminary Plat – Osprey Landing
Mr. Chad Hicks, City Planner requested the Board table action on Osprey’s
Landing preliminary plat until the engineering plans are received. Alderman
Childs moved, seconded by Alderman Callari to table approval as requested by
the City Planner. Motion carried.
IX.
Final Plat – 9th Street Subdivision (Cape Fear Trading Group- Rod Hyson)
Mr. Hicks presented the final plat for 9th Street Subdivision. Staff
recommended approval stating that all requirements have been met. Alderman
Powell asked if storm water had been addressed by the Building Inspector’s
office. Mr. Hicks explained that the only requirement for storm water with this
subdivision is based on each individual house due to low impact construction
with only six houses planned. He stated as each house is permitted, storm water
plans would be reviewed. Alderman Powell stated that it is his belief that
storm water should be addressed beforehand on any subdivision.
Ms. Heather Burkert, Landscape Architect, presented plans showing that the
storm water issues were being addressed and city staff has reviewed the plans.
City Manager Gandy told the Board that staff has been very astute when it comes
to storm water and they will continue to be vigilant.
No further discussion, Alderman Callari moved, seconded by Alderman Childs to
approve the final plat for the 9th Street Subdivision with each individual lot
meeting the Unified Development Ordinance storm water requirements. The vote of
approval was unanimous.
X.
Final Plat – Palmetto Section of Dutchman Village
Mr. Hicks presented the final plat for the Palmetto Section of Dutchman Village
and stated it complied with the requirements of the Unified Development
Ordinance. Alderman Powell moved to approve the final plat for the Palmetto
Section of Dutchman Village, seconded by Alderman Callari, motion carried.
XI.
Resolution – Citizens for Justice Victim Awareness Day
A resolution was presented to the Board for adoption proclaiming the 3rd Monday
of November as Victim Awareness Day. Chief Dove explained in memo to the Board
that this will help kick off Victims’ Assistance Week where it will bring
awareness, honor, and remembrance to victims and their families. Alderman
Childs moved to adopt the following resolution, seconded by Alderman Callari,
vote carried.
RESOLUTION PROCLAIMING THE 3RD MONDAY IN NOVEMBER OF EACH YEAR AS CITIZENS FOR
JUSTICE VICTIM AWARENESS DAY IN THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT, NORTH CAROLINA
WHEREAS, the citizens for justice and the North Carolina Victim Assistance
Network are recognizing the Victim Awareness and Victim Rights on this day; and
WHEREAS, of the millions of crimes reported last year in the United States, in
the State of North Carolina 21,200 crimes against people were reported. In the
state of North Carolina there are over 8, 287 reported sex offenders on file.
WHEREAS, by calling attention to the importance victim awareness and the rights
of victims and the surviving family of victims, the legislation and lobbying
for the rights of victims as stated in the North Carolina Crime Victims Rights
Act of 1999 within our state/communities, these groups hope to improve the
quality and availability of such services; and
WHEREAS, the protection of victims are represented and protected depends on the
awareness of the legislators, citizens, and the communities of the State of
North Carolina, the quality service provided to victims and families represent
a worthy commitment to the citizens of Southport, Brunswick County, and the
State of North Carolina.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the City of Southport, North Carolina does
hereby proclaim the 3rd Monday of November of each year as “Citizens for
Justice Victim Awareness Day” in an effort to promote awareness in our city,
county, and the State of North Carolina; and urge all citizens to recognize
victims, the families of victims, and the advocates who represent, protect, and
defend victims of crimes and their important work.
DULY ADOPTED this 9th day of November 2006.
/s/ James C. Brown
Mayor Pro Tempore’
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, CMC
Clerk
XII.
Resolution – Veteran’s Day
Alderman Callari motioned to adopt the following resolution in honor of
Veteran’s Day, seconded by Alderman Powell, vote carried.
PROCLAMATION
WHEREAS, November 10, 2006, has been designated a Veteran’s Day to honor and
celebrate our veterans; and
WHEREAS, veterans deserve and merit our continued remembrance and appreciation
for the many sacrifices they have made for freedom and the American way of
life; and
WHEREAS, our community has a continuing sense of gratitude to those veterans
who have given so much in the defense of freedom which we continue to enjoy.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT PROCLAIMED, that the City of Southport Board of Aldermen
urge all citizens to join us in the reaffirmation of our gratitude to the men
and women who have served so faithfully in the defense of the United States of
America.
DULY PROCLAIMED, this the 9th Day of November, 2006.
/S/ James Brown, Mayor Pro-Tempore
Attest:
/S/ Regina Alexander, City Clerk
XIII.
Application for a Public Beach and Coastal Waterfront Access Project
Chad Hicks, Planner and City Manager Gandy briefed the Board on a proposed
beach and coastal access project. They propose to apply for a grant from CAMA
for a boardwalk/river access project at Fort Johnston beginning on the
waterside in front of the Community Building and heading west, tying into the
existing city pier. The project will include two observation platforms with
steps leading down to the river beach. The City in 1990 authorized W.K. Dickson
to sketch a boardwalk plan that linked Southport Pier to the Community Center;
however, the drawing did not contain the information needed to measure
engineering costs involved in constructing the project. In order to submit an
application package to CAMA, the City of Southport must have a detailed site
plan and a construction cost estimate to submit with the grant. W. K. Dickson
agreed to survey the property and provide the detailed site plan. Estimated
engineering costs for the work is $10,000, and this money cannot be counted
towards any match the city will be required to make should the grant be
awarded. City Manager Gandy stated if the Board were in concurrence with
applying for the grant, staff would proceed with the pre-application process.
He stated if DCM believes that this is a viable project, then staff would
continue with the application process. The Board agreed by consensus that staff
proceed with the grant process.
Alderman Adams asked the City Manager to entertain the idea of installing
public restrooms some place on the site. It was stated that the Fort Johnston
Committee is working on this.
XIV.
Contiguous Voluntary Annexation Petition - Augenbach
Southport Development Associates presented a voluntary annexation petition for
property located off the corner of Stuart and North Atlantic Avenue. Alderman
Childs moved to accept the petition and directed the Clerk to certify the
sufficiency of it. Motion seconded by Alderman Callari, vote carried.
XV.
Financing Agreement- Backhoe for Street Department
City Manager Gandy explained that the finance officer solicited bids for the
2007 Case 580 Super M2 Loader Backhoe. Four (4) bids were received with First
Citizens Bank being the low bidder in the amount of $55,993.62 with financing
for three (3) years at a rate of 3.77% with annual payments of $18,664.54.
Alderman Powell moved to accept the recommendation of the finance officer to
award the bid to First Citizens Bank, seconded by Alderman Callari, vote
carried.
XVI.
Electric Rate Reduction
City Manager Gandy presented a rate adjustment proposal submitted by Alderman
Fisher. In memo to the Board, it was stated that the North Carolina Eastern
Municipal Power Agency’s Rate Committee approved a decrease in the energy fuel
rider of 0.121 cents per KWH. This will decrease the city’s energy rider by
1.5%. The rate will take effect on January 1, 2007. The City’s energy rider is
$0.00837 per KWH. The City will be able to reduce this rate to $0.00716 per
KWH, which will equate to a savings of $1.70 per month for the average
customer. The energy fuel rider was put in place to be able to change the rate
as fuel prices vary. This decrease will maintain the present fund balance. City
Manager Gandy reiterated that this is not a rate change, only an adjustment to
the rider. Alderman Callari motioned to approve the rate adjustment to the
rider, seconded by Alderman Childs, vote carried.
XVII.
Resolution – City to annex property owned by the City
Alderman Childs moved, seconded by Alderman Adams to adopt the succeeding
resolution stating the intent of the City to annex property owned by the City
that is not contiguous to the existing municipal boundaries and to include Farm
# 5239. Vote carried.
RESOLUTION STATING THE INTENT OF THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT TO ANNEX PROPERTY OWNED
BY THE CITY, WHICH IS NOT CONTIGUOUS TO THE EXISTING MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES
BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport that:
Section 1. It is the intent of the Board of Aldermen, pursuant to G. S. 160A-
58.7, to annex the property described in Section 2, which is owned by the City
of Southport.
Section 2. The legal description of the property is as follows:
TRACT ONE:
BEING all of Tracts 2 and 4 containing a total of 406.40 acres as shown on a
plat entitled “ Plat of Boundary for Town of Southport” by Brunswick Surveying,
Inc., recorded in Map Cabinet 33 at Pages 438-439 of the Brunswick County
Registry, said tracts having the metes, bounds and locations shown thereon.
Being the same, property conveyed to the City of Southport in Book 2282 at Page
305 of the Brunswick County Registry.
TRACT TWO:
BEING all of Tract 1 containing 10.31 acres and Tract 2 containing 24.94 acres
according to a map for the Town of Southport by Withers & Ravenel-Brunswick
Surveying recorded in Map Cabinet 35 at Page 159 of the Brunswick County
Registry, said tracts having the metes, bounds and locations shown thereon.
Being the same property conveyed to the City of Southport in Book 2403 at Page
1368 of the Brunswick County Registry.
Section 3. The property described in Section 2 is not contiguous to the current
municipal boundaries, but will meet the requirements of G. S. 160A-58.1(b) as
modified by Act of the N. C. General Assembly, and as authorized by the
Annexation Agreement with the City of Boiling Spring Lakes and resolution of
the Brunswick County Board of Commissioners.
Section 4. A public hearing on the question of annexation will be held at
Southport City Hall, 201 E. Moore Street, at 7:30 pm on December 14, 2006.
Section 5. Notice of the public hearing shall be published once in the State
Port Pilot, a newspaper having general circulation in the City of Southport, at
least 10 days prior to the date of the public hearing.
Adopted this the 9th day of November, 2006.
/s/ James C. Brown
Mayor Pro Tem
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, CMC
Clerk
XVIII.
Other Business – City Dock
Alderman Powell informed the Board that he consulted with city staff on the
condition of the bulkhead at the City dock. He explained that a 50-foot section
needs to be replaced. Shoreline Construction is currently working on the Sweeny
property and after speaking with the Mayor, he requested that they get a
proposal from the same contractor to perform the work on the City’s dock. He
stated that the first bid came in high and he renegotiated the price to
$33,500. Alderman Powell stated if the city waits to do the work, it would have
to go through the CAMA permit process if the city does not act in conjunction
with the neighboring construction project. There being no objections, Alderman
Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Callari to contract with Shoreline
Construction for repair of the City’s bulkhead in the amount of $33,500. The
vote was unanimous.
XIV.
Brunswick County Code Enforcement Clean-Up
Mr. Drew, Code Enforcement Officer presented a request from Ann Lee of 729
Jabbertown Road to remove a dilapidated structure by participating in Brunswick
County’s Code Enforcement Clean-up program. Alderman Childs moved to approve
the request, seconded by Alderman Powell, vote carried.
XV.
Parking Committee
Alderman Childs stated that the Parking Committee recommends that the 2-hour
parking limit be expanded from Davis to Howe Streets. Alderman Powell moved to
approve the recommendation, seconded by Alderman Callari, vote carried.
XVI.
Fort Johnston Committee
Alderman Childs stated that the Fort Johnston Committee continues to meet and
requested approval from the Board to use the facilities during the holidays.
She communicated that the Committee will decorate the Garrison House for the
Christmas Holidays. Board members were invited to attend a meeting with the
Fort Johnston Committee and representatives from the State Historic
Preservation Office on December 6, 2006 at the Garrison House.
Alderman Childs extended thanks to the Southport Historical Society for the
cleanup work in Smithville Burying Ground. City Manager Gandy extended special
thanks to staff.
XVII.
Adjournment – 8:45 p.m.
No further business, Alderman Childs moved, seconded by Alderman Callari to
adjourn the meeting at 8:45 p.m. Vote carried.
S/ James C. Brown, Mayor Pro Tempore
S/ Regina W. Alexander, CMC-Clerk
DECEMBER 14, 2006
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
DECEMBER 14, 2006 7:30 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, NC
 
MEMBERS PRESENT:    Mayor Norman Holden
            Aldermen Nelson Adams, Mary “Meezie” Childs,
            James F. Powell, Mary “Stuart” Callari and Paul Fisher
MEMBERS ABSENT:   Alderman James C. Brown
STAFF PRESENT:      Rob Gandy, City Manger
            Regina W. Alexander, City Clerk
            Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
            Jerry Dove, Chief of Police
            Bob Grant, Public Services Director
            Chad Hicks, City Planner
I.
Call to Order
Mayor Holden called the regular monthly meeting of the Southport Board of
Aldermen to order at 7:32 p.m.
II.
Invocation
Chief Jerry Dove delivered the invocation.
III.
Minutes
Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Callari to approve the November 9th
regular meeting minutes. Vote carried.
IV.
Citizen Matters (Non-Agenda Items)
Alderman Childs invited the Board and citizens to a reception at the Garrison
House immediately after the meeting.
Mr. Terry Lee, property owner in Southport informed the Board that he
originally purchased 50 lots from Mr. Howard Laughlin who was a surveyor in
this area and the lots were originally platted in 1897. Prior to acquiring the
lots, he visited the Building Inspector’s office to insure that the lots were
buildable. Upon acquisition of the property, he has since sold several lots to
Carolina Southern and three of the lots presently have houses under
construction. Carolina Southern has applied for other building permits and been
denied. Mayor asked what was the explanation given by Mr. Strickland for
denial. Mr. Lee stated that he was told that it was not an approved
subdivision. Mayor Holden asked the City Manager to contact Mr. Strickland and
request in writing within ten (10) days for an explanation as to why the
permits were denied.
Administrative Matters
Alderman Childs motioned to enter Public Hearing on Items V, VI, VII, seconded
by Alderman Callari, the vote carried.
V.
Public Hearing on request by staff to strike from the Unified Development
Ordinance Section 15-4 paragraph 1 that requires a 300’ transition area around
a residential cluster development.
There were no public comments. Chad Hicks, Planning Director explained that
staff is requesting that the 300’ transition area around the border of a
residential cluster development be stricken from the UDO because this
transition area is preventing some developers from using the residential
cluster development tool to develop land. This section of the UDO provides both
the developer and the City alternatives to standard development practices.
Alderman Childs motioned to approve the request by staff to strike from the
Unified Development Ordinance Section 15-4 paragraph 1, which requires a 300’
transition area around a residential cluster development. Motion seconded by
Alderman Callari, vote carried.
VI.
Public Hearing on request by staff to strike from the Unified Development
Ordinance Section 11-1 Note2 (C) that presently allows an unenclosed porch to
protrude into the rear yard not more than ten (10) feet.
There were no public comments. Mr. Hicks explained that allowing a porch to
encroach into the required rear yard presents a problem if the homeowner later
wishes to enclose the porch. By avoiding this encroachment altogether, the
problem of denying a property owner a building permit to enclose a porch can be
avoided.
Alderman Childs motioned to approve the requested change in Section 11-1 of the
Unified Development Ordinance. Alderman Childs seconded, vote carried.
VII.
Public Hearing on request by staff to strike from the Unified Development
Ordinance a portion of Article II Table of Area, Yard, Density and Height,
Footnote 1. This note states that, “Non-Conforming lots which are located in
the Southport Historic Area may be granted front, rear, and side yard setbacks
proportionate to the size of the lot”. Staff requests that front setback be
stricken from the proportionate reduction.
Dale McPherson, member of the Planning Board stated that they are trying to
achieve some uniformity and this change will not affect development already in
place.
Mr. Hicks stated in allowing the proportionate reduction of the front yard
setback could allow the placement of buildings ahead of other structures on the
street. Note 4 of Article 11 allow a reduction in front yard setbacks where
adjoining properties have less than the required setback. By eliminating the
proportionate reduction of the front yard setbacks, the streetscape of
Southport can be protected while allowing owners to use property that may not
meet all the requirements of the UDO.
Alderman Childs motioned, seconded by Alderman Callari to approve the
recommendation by staff to strike from the Unified Development Ordinance a
portion of Article II Table of Area, Yard, Density and Height, Footnote 1. Vote
carried.
VIII.
Public Hearing on the question of annexing Tract A non-contiguous property
owned by the City of Southport
Alderman Childs motioned, seconded by Alderman Callari to enter Public Hearing
to received comments from the public on annexing Tract A non-contiguous
property owned by the City. Vote carried.
There were no comments.
Alderman Childs motioned to re-enter regular session, seconded by Alderman
Fisher, vote carried.
IX.
Ordinance to extend the corporate limits of the City of Southport.
Alderman Childs motioned to approve the Ordinance to extend the corporate
limits of the City of Southport, seconded by Alderman Callari, vote carried.
AN ORDINANCE TO EXTEND THE CORPORATE LIMITS OF THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT, NORTH
CAROLINA
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen has adopted a resolution under G. S. 160A-58.7,
stating its intent to annex the area described below; and
I
WHEREAS, a public hearing on the question of this annexation was held at
Southport City Hall at 7:30 pm on December 14, 2006, after due notice; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that the area meets the
requirements of G. S. 160A-58.1(b), as modified by Act of the N. C. General
Assembly applicable to the City of Southport and as authorized by the
Annexation Agreement with the City of Boiling Spring Lakes and the resolution
adopted by the Brunswick County Board of Commissioners, as follows:
a.    The nearest point on the proposed satellite corporate limits is not more
than three (3) miles from the primary corporate limits of the City of
Southport;
b.   No point on the proposed satellite corporate limits is closer to the
primary corporate limits of another city than to the primary corporate limits
of the City of Southport except for the City of Boiling Spring Lakes and an
Annexation Agreement has been entered into with the City of Boiling Spring
Lakes allowing the City of Southport to annex said area; in addition, a
resolution has been adopted by the Brunswick County Board of Commissioners
pursuant to G. S. 160A-58.24(e) consenting to said annexation by the City of
Southport;
c.    The area is so situated that the City of Southport will be able to
provide the same services within the proposed satellite corporate limits that
it provides within the primary corporate limits;
d.    The area is not a subdivision; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that the annexation of the area is
in the public interest;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport, North Carolina that:
Section 1. By virtue of the authority granted by G. S. 160A-58.7, the
Annexation Agreement with the City of Boiling Spring Lakes and resolution of
the Brunswick County Board of Commissioners, the following described
noncontiguous property owned by the City of Southport is hereby annexed and
made part of the City of Southport as of the date hereof:
See Exhibit A.
Section 2. The Mayor shall cause to be recorded in the office of the Register
of Deeds of Brunswick County and in the Office of the Secretary of State in
Raleigh, North Carolina, an accurate map of the annexed territory, together
with a certified copy of this ordinance. Such a map shall also be delivered to
the Brunswick County Board of Elections as required by G. S. 163-288.1.
Adopted this 14th day of December 2006.
City of Southport
BY:
S/Norman R. Holden
Mayor
ATTEST:
S/Regina W. Alexander
Clerk
X.
Resolution fixing date of Public Hearing on question of contiguous annexation
pursuant to G.S. 160A-31 (Aughenbach)
Alderman Callari moved, seconded by Alderman Childs to approve the following
resolution fixing the date of Public Hearing on the question of contiguous
annexation pursuant to G.S. 160A-31.
RESOLUTION FIXING DATE OF PUBLIC HEARING ON QUESTION OF CONTIGUOUS ANNEXATION
PURSUANT TO G.S. 160A-31
WHEREAS, a petition requesting annexation of the contiguous area described
herein has been received; and
WHEREAS, the City of Southport Board of Aldermen has by resolution directed the
City Clerk to investigate the sufficiency of the petition; and
WHEREAS, certification by the City Clerk as to the sufficiency of the petition
has been made;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport, North Carolina that:
Section 1.  A public hearing on the question of annexation of the contiguous
area described herein will be held at Southport City Hall at 7:30 p.m. on
January 11, 2007.
Section 2. The area proposed for annexation is described as follows:
BEGINNING at an existing iron pipe in the Eastern right-of-way of North
Atlantic Avenue which said iron pipe is located the following courses and
distances from N.C.G.S. Monument “K-216” NAD 83 coordinates N=21,383.059 Meters
E-699,625.625 Meters; from said monument runs South 34 degrees 44 minutes 15
seconds East 1,667.21 feet to an existing iron pipe at the intersection of the
center lines of 13th Street and North Atlantic Avenue; continues thence with
the center line of North Atlantic Avenue South 17 degrees 53 minutes 47 seconds
East 93.85 feet to a P.K. nail; runs thence North 71 degrees 55 minutes 51
seconds East 31.34 feet to the place and point of BEGINNING; runs thence North
19 degrees 15 minutes 23 seconds East 248.73 feet to an existing iron pipe;
runs thence North 19 degrees 17 minutes 35 seconds East 133.89 feet to an
existing iron pipe; runs thence North 19 degrees 17 minutes 05 seconds East
203.93 feet to a new iron pipe; runs thence South 70 degrees 36 minutes 06
seconds East 362.23 feet to an existing iron pipe; runs thence South 70 degrees
33 minutes 06 seconds East 227.77 feet to a new iron pipe in the Western edge
of an unopened street; runs thence with the Western edge of said street South
19 degrees 23 minutes 25 seconds West 735.23 feet to an existing iron pipe;
continues with said street South 19 degrees 27 minutes 27 seconds West 192 feet
to an existing iron pipe in the Northern right-of-way of Stuart Avenue; runs
thence with the Northern right-of-way of Stuart Avenue North 70 degrees 26
minutes 50 seconds West 20 feet to an iron pipe; runs thence North 70 degrees
33 minutes 37 seconds West 140 feet to an iron pipe; runs thence North 19
degrees 28 minutes 10 seconds East 98.95 feet; runs thence North 19 degrees 37
minutes 02 seconds East 65.91 feet; runs thence North 19 degrees 26 minutes 55
seconds East 24.64 feet; runs thence North 19 degrees 23 minutes 18 seconds
East 38.47 feet to an existing iron pipe; runs thence North 70 degrees 31
minutes 54 seconds West 346.16 feet to a new iron pipe in the Eastern right-of-
way of North Atlantic Avenue; runs thence with the Eastern line of North
Atlantic Avenue North 17 degrees 37 minutes 04 seconds West 137.64 feet and
containing 10.65 acres containing tracts 1, 2, 3 and 4 as per survey for R. I.
Mintz Heirs by Bobby M. Long & Associates, dated April 20, 2005, and recorded
in Map Book 35 at page 96, Brunswick County Register of Deeds.
Section 3. Notice of public hearing shall be published once in the State Port
Pilot, a newspaper having general circulation in the City of Southport at least
ten (10) days prior to the date of the public hearing.
Adopted this the 14th day of December 2006.
S/Norman R. Holden
Mayor
Attest:
S /Regina W. Alexander, Clerk
XI.
Preliminary and Final Plat – Stevens Park Recreational Plat
Chad Hicks, City Planner presented the preliminary and final plat for Stevens
Park. The Planning Board recommended that this subdivision be granted
preliminary approval. The plat shows the land that will be given to the City
from Cape Fear Trading Group. He explained in order to expedite the transfer;
staff recommends that both preliminary and final approval of the subdivision be
granted since they meet the requirements of the UDO, however the final plat
does have a few minor storm water issues that are currently being worked out,
but recommended approval subject to.  
Alderman Fisher moved, seconded by Alderman Callari to approve the preliminary
plat as presented and the final plat subject to all storm water issues being
resolved. The vote of approval was unanimous.
XII.
Final Plat – Cades Cove
Mr. Hicks recommended approval of the final plat, which complies with the UDO,
and stated that all improvements are guaranteed with a letter of credit.
Alderman Fisher motioned to approve the final plat for Cades Cove, seconded by
Alderman Childs, vote carried.
Preliminary Plat – Cades Cove: Phase 3, 4, and 5 – this plat was tabled due to
questions about traffic turn out onto Howe Street. The developer has the DOT
driveway permit and the turn out issues has been addressed. Alderman Fisher
motioned to approve the preliminary plat for Phase 3, 4 and 5, seconded by
Alderman Callari, vote carried.
XIII.
Deed for Stevens Park Recreational Facility
Attorney Isenberg presented the Deed for the Steven’s Park property for Board
approval. He stated that all corrections were made and reviewed. The next step
is Board acceptance. Alderman Fisher moved to accept the Deed for the Stevens
Park property, seconded by Alderman Callari, vote of approval unanimous. (Copy
of Deed Incorporated as Attachment #1)
XIV.
Application for Taxi Cab – Caline J. Kane
City Attorney Isenberg stated that Ms. Kane made application to the City for a
Taxi Cab Permit, however City Ordinance requires a Public Hearing be held
before issuance. He stated that all paper work is in order from the applicant.
Alderman Childs motioned, seconded by Alderman Callari to request the City
Manager to advertise Public Hearing on January 11, 2007, vote carried.
XVI.
Code Enforcement – County Cleanup Program
Charles Drew, Code Enforcement Officer submitted a request from Mr. Ralph
Parker of 602 N. Caswell Avenue requesting to participate in the County’s
Clean-up program to remove a dilapidated building. Alderman Fisher motioned to
approve the request, seconded by Alderman Childs, vote carried.
XVII.
Budget Amendments
Alderman Fisher motioned to approve budget amendments #7-#12, seconded by
Alderman Callari, vote carried.
Budget Amendment #7
Fiscal Year 2006-2007
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session December 14, 2006 that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for revenues appropriated from fund balance for Rescue
Department expenditures.
General Fund
                                   Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section I
A.   Revenues Anticipated
         Fund Balance Appr13,400ed         3,761,268.68
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
         Rescue                            3,761,268.68
            Departmenta6000pplies
            Uniform Sup2000s
            Medical Sup3000s
            R/M Vehicle2400
 
ADOPTED this the 14th day of December, 2006
S/Mayor Norman R. Holden
Attest:
S/Regina W. Alexander
Clerk to the Board of Aldermen
Budget Amendment #8
Fiscal Year 2006-2007
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session December 14, 2006 that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for revenues appropriated from fund balance of revolving
loan grant proceeds for Buildings & Grounds expenditures for a qualified home
grant project
General Fund
                                   Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section I
C.   Revenues Anticipated
      Fund Balance Appropriat5,485            3,766,753.68
D.   Appropriated Expenditures
      Buildings & Grounds                     3,766,753.68
         Home Revolving Lo5,485oj.
 
ADOPTED this the 14th day of December, 2006
S/Mayor Norman R. Holden
Attest:
Regina W. Alexander
Clerk to the Board of Aldermen
Budget Amendment #9
Fiscal Year 2006-2007
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session December 14, 2006 that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for revenues received from First Citizens for financing
proceeds for Street Department expenditures on purchase of 2007 Case backhoe.
General Fund
                                     Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section I
E.   Revenues Anticipated
         Proceeds from Finan53,984           3,820,737.68
F.   Appropriated Expenditures
         Street Department                   3,820,737.68
            Capital Outla53,984pment
 
ADOPTED this the 14th day of December, 2006
S/Mayor Norman R. Holden
Attest:
s/Regina W. Alexander
Clerk to the Board of Aldermen
Budget Amendment #10
Fiscal Year 2006-2007
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session December 14, 2006 that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for donation revenues received from Wal-mart Foundation
for Police Department expenditures on purchase of equipment
General Fund
                                       Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section I
G.   Revenues Anticipated
         Miscellaneous Revenue1,000ice         3,821,737.68
H.   Appropriated Expenditures
         Police Department                     3,821,737.68
            Equipment      1,000
 
ADOPTED this the 14th day of December, 2006
S/Mayor Norman R. Holden
Attest:
S/Regina W. Alexander
Clerk to the Board of Aldermen
Budget Amendment #11
Fiscal Year 2006-2007
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session December 14, 2006 that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for donation revenues received from Fema Fire Grant for
Rescue Department expenditures on training and training material.
General Fund
                                    Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section I
I.   Revenues Anticipated
      Miscellaneous Revenues/P4,190.64         3,825,928.32
J.   Appropriated Expenditures
      Rescue Department                        3,825,928.32
         Fema Grant Expendi4, 190, 64
 
ADOPTED this the 14th day of December, 2006
S/Mayor Norman R. Holden
Attest:
S/Regina W. Alexander
Clerk to the Board of Aldermen
Budget Amendment #12
Fiscal Year 2006-2007
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session December 14, 2006 that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for re-budgeting of line items for Parks & Recreations.
There will be not change in budget.
General Fund
                               Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section I
K.   Appropriated Expenditures
      Parks & Recreations
         Stevens Parks3951.97
         Capital Outla(2451.97)
         Equipment    (1500.00)
 
ADOPTED this the 14th day of December, 2006
S/Mayor Norman R. Holden
Attest:
S/Regina W. Alexander
Clerk to the Board of Aldermen
XVIII.
Other Business
Non–Conforming Lots: Chad Hicks, City Planner discussed the issue of 33-foot
lots within the city and read from the UDO on non-conforming lots. Alderman
Powell made reference to various scenarios concerning non–conforming lots
particularly the 33-foot lots. Ex: If a house currently exists on a lot, it can
be replaced within 180 days according to the UDO. He also referenced individual
deeds per lot and the fact that an individual should be able to build. Aldermen
Callari and Childs stated it was not the Board’s intent to prohibit people from
building on their lots and the issue is whether a person owning several lots
can sell each one individually for construction. City Attorney Isenberg
explained that if the same individual owns more than one 33-foot lot, it must
be combined to create a conforming lot. Mayor Holden requested the City Planner
meet with the Planning Board, discuss the non-conforming lots, and bring a
recommendation back to the January meeting.
Alderman Childs motioned, seconded by Alderman Callari to request the Planning
Board place this issue of 33-foot non-conforming lots on their agenda for the
month of December for a UDO change. Vote carried.
Traffic Committee: Mayor Holden read the following statement:
“Due to the increase in traffic we have already experienced, I believe it will
continue to become worse especially with the construction of the new Super
Port. I plan to appoint a Southport Traffic Control Committee to begin
immediately to address this serious problem.
The purpose shall be to advise the federal, state, county and local
municipalities of our situation and begin to look at the present and future to
come up with solutions.
I would like to ask the City Manager to place an announcement in the local
paper asking for anyone interested in this problem that has any experience in
traffic situations to submit a resume’ to the City Manager not later than
January 3, 2007.
Four Southport citizens shall be selected by the following city fathers and
staff that will serve with the four.
I would like to appoint City Planner Chad Hicks, who will serve as Chairman.
Public Services Director Bob Grant and Planning Board Chairman Barbara Clewis
will serve as Co-Chairs. I would also like to ask Aldermen Adams, Fisher and
Powell to serve as well.
I would strongly suggest the committee contact the other five municipalities
Mayors for their interest and input.
Last week, myself and the City Planning Director were at the State Department
of Transportation monthly meeting informing Lanny Wilson, our DOT
representative along with Alan Pope, our DOT district engineer of our plan. Mr.
Pope informed us of a contact person at the DOT Wilmington office to assist us
with our task.
As the State DOT Liaison for the 3rd District, I stand ready to assist. Once
the Committee has been appointed, I would hope a meeting would be set as soon
as possible.”
Electric Committee Meeting: Alderman Fisher reported that the Electrical
Committee met with BEMC to update current projects and projected projects for
2007 through 2012. The Committee will present a briefing at the 2007 Retreat
and get the Board’s guidance for the ten (10) year work plan.
Alderman Fisher attended two meetings with the NCERMPA since the last update.
·   The Power Agency budget for $650,912,000 for 2007 was approved.
·   An energy decrease was approved for 1.5% decrease – the decrease will be
effective for Southport customers January 1, 2007.
·   A resolution was passed in support of the Harris Plant license extension
for 20 years. (The power agency owns 16.17% of the Shearon Harris Nuclear Plant
– Wake County)
·   An update on Progress Energy’s plans to build new nuclear plants – 2 in
North Carolina and 2 in Florida
·   Alderman Fisher was re-elected Chairman of the Power Agency for another
year.
·   A legal issue was discussed which will be presented in Executive Session of
the Board.
Alderman Fisher informed the Board that the Parking Committee did not meet due
to lack of a quorum.
Southport Marina: Alderman Fisher requested an update from Mark Johnson on the
plans and progress of the Southport Marina for the January meeting.
Employee Bonus: Alderman Fisher motioned to give all full time employees a
bonus of $50.00, seconded by Alderman Powell, vote carried.
Executive Session – 8:35 P.M.
Alderman Fisher motioned to enter executive session pursuant to G.S. 143-318.11
(a) (3) to consult with the City Attorney concerning the potential liability of
the City in reference to the Carolina Transformer Superfund site and whether to
participate at this time in the current litigation or what other action the
City needs to take, seconded by Alderman Callari, vote carried.
(Closed session minutes will remain sealed until releasing it to the public
will not frustrate the purpose of having met in closed session).
Regular Session Reconvened – 8:55 P.M.
No further business, Alderman Childs moved to adjourn, seconded by Alderman
Callari, vote carried.
_________________________________
Norman R. Holden, Mayor
_________________________
Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
Executive Session
 
Executive Session Minutes December 14, 2006
 
Public Services Director Bob Grant briefed the Board on the following:
The City of Southport has received notice from William A. White, Esquire,
representing a group of 29 electric utility providers self-termed as the
Potentially Responsible Parties (PRP) who have been identified by the EPA as
being potentially liable for an estimated $30,000,000.00 in environmental
clean-up costs of polychlorinated biphenyls (PCB’s) illegally disposed of by
the agents of the former Carolina Transformer, Inc. (CTI) at their site located
in Fayetteville, NC. CTI conducted business from this site from 1959 through
1984. The notice suggests that other electric utilities along the east coast in
addition to the 29 entities (the PRP group) originally identified by the EPA
may have potential exposure and that the City of Southport may in fact, be
among these additional parties. The PRP group has offered to allow the City and
other parties to join them in defending the EPA claim and arriving at an
ultimate settlement at a cost of $10,000.00 to each entity opting to join. The
notice also suggests that the PRP group may ultimately pursue legal action
against these other entities to offset the costs they may incur in their
negotiations with the EPA on a final settlement of this issue.
The notice provided by the PRP group to Southport suggests that CTI accounts
receivable records indicate that Southport appears to have done some limited
degree of business with CTI in 1977 and 1978. From discussions with former
employees and review of available financial records and other documentation,
the City has found no evidence to date of transactions with CTI in the past.
The records we have found and the recollections of the former employees
contacted suggest that the City did business almost exclusively from 1979 until
2000 with Southeastern Transformer located in Dunn, NC.
Even if the City did in fact conduct business with Carolina Transformer in the
years identified in the notice, the PRP has not provided documentation that any
business conducted might have involved the receipt and processing of PCB
related materials by CTI.
The City has two apparent courses of action it can consider. It can join the
PRP group, which on its face, suggests we feel we may have potential exposure
in this issue; or it can decline to participate with the group in its effort to
reach a settlement with EPA. If the latter option is chosen, it is possible
that the PRP group could pursue a separate action against Southport and other
entities identified by them as having possible exposure in order to recoup a
portion of their ultimate settlement costs negotiated with the EPA.
On the basis of the City’s investigation regarding this matter, staff feels
that at this time, any exposure on the City of Southport’s part would appear
minimal given the in light of the limited documentation provided to us to date
by the PRP group and would suggest that we respond back to them in writing
indicating that we respectfully decline to participate at this time, but would
welcome the opportunity to review any additional documentation relating to
transactions between the City and CTI that may be forthcoming in the future.
After due consideration of the information provided in Mr. Grant’s briefing,
the Board agreed with staff’s recommendation and directed city staff to prepare
a letter to that effect to be forwarded back to the PRP group through attorney
White.
There being no further business, Alderman Childs motioned to re-enter regular
session, seconded by Alderman Callari.
Adjournment – 8:57 P.M.
Alderman Childs moved to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Alderman Callari,
vote carried.
______________________________
Norman R. Holden, Mayor
_________________________________
Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
2007
JANUARY 11, 2007
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
JANUARY 11, 2007  7:30 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, N. C.
 
MEMBERS PRESENT:   Mayor Norman Holden
            Aldermen Nelson Adams, Mary “Meezie” Childs,
            James F. Powell, Mary “Stuart” Callari, Paul Fisher and
            James C. Brown
MEMBERS ABSENT:   None
STAFF PRESENT:      Rob Gandy, City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander, CMC-City Clerk
            Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
I.
Call to Order
Mayor Holden called the regular monthly meeting of the Southport Board of
Aldermen to order at 7:35 p.m.
II.
Invocation
Mayor Pro Tem Brown delivered the invocation.
III.
Minutes
Alderman Powell motioned, seconded by Alderman Callari, to approve the regular
and executive session minutes from December 14, 2006. The vote carried.
IV.
Citizen Matters (Non-Agenda)
There were no petitions from the floor.
V.
Public Hearing – Request by Ms. Caline J. Kane, Angel Taxi Service
Alderman Childs motioned, seconded by Alderman Callari to enter Public Hearing
to receive comments from the public regarding a request by Ms. Caline J. Kane,
Angel Taxi Service to obtain a permit to operate a taxicab service in the City
of Southport. The vote of approval was unanimous.
Mayor Holden called for public comments.
Ms. Joyce Ryan of A-1 Transport questioned the need for another Cab Service
when six (6) are currently operating within the city. She explained that she
did not receive notification that this request was coming before the Board, and
why a cab service from Wilmington, when the local ones are struggling
financially.
Mayor Holden stated that public notice was advertised in the State Port Pilot
and this request was on the Board’s agenda in December. The petitioner has
followed all the necessary procedures.
No further comments, Alderman Childs moved, seconded by Alderman Callari to re-
enter regular session, vote carried.
Mayor Holden called for the motion...Alderman Fisher stated that the petitioner
has complied with application requirements and moved to grant a permit to Ms.
Caline J. Kane, of Angel Taxi Service to operate a taxicab service in the City
of Southport. Alderman Callari seconded the motion; the vote of approval was
unanimous.
VI.
Public Hearing – Contiguous Annexation, Aughenbach Property (Corner of Stuart
and N. Atlantic Avenue)
Alderman Fisher motioned, seconded by Alderman Callari to enter Public Hearing
to receive comments on the question of contiguous annexation pursuant to G. S.
160A-31.
There were no comments. Alderman Childs moved to closed the Hearing and re-
enter regular session, seconded by Alderman Callari, vote carried.
Alderman Childs motioned to adopt the following annexation ordinance seconded
by Alderman Powell, vote carried.
AN ORDINANCE TO EXTEND THE CORPORATE LIMITS OF THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT, NORTH
CAROLINA
(Contiguous)
WHEREAS, the City of Southport has been petitioned under G.S.160A-31 to annex
the area described below; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen has by resolution directed the City Clerk to
investigate the sufficiency of the petition; and
WHEREAS, the City Clerk has certified the sufficiency of the petition and a
public hearing on the question of this annexation was held at Southport City
Hall at 7:30 p.m. on January 11, 2007, after due notice by publication in the
State Port Pilot on December 27, 2006 and;
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen finds that the area described therein meets the
requirements of G.S. 160A-31;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of Southport, North
Carolina that:
Section 1. By virtue of the authority granted by G.S. 160A-31, the following
described territory is hereby annexed and made part of the City of Southport
effective immediately
BEGINNING at an existing iron pipe in the Eastern right-of-way of North
Atlantic Avenue which said iron pipe is located the following courses and
distances from N.C.G.S. Monument “K-216” NAD 83 coordinates N=21,383.059 Meters
E-699,625.625 Meters; from said monument runs South 34 degrees 44 minutes 15
seconds East 1,667.21 feet to an existing iron pipe at the intersection of the
center lines of 13th Street and North Atlantic Avenue; continues thence with
the center line of North Atlantic Avenue South 17 degrees 53 minutes 47 seconds
East 93.85 feet to a P.K. nail; runs thence North 71 degrees 55 minutes 51
seconds East 31.34 feet to the place and point of BEGINNING; runs thence North
19 degrees 15 minutes 23 seconds East 248.73 feet to an existing iron pipe;
runs thence North 19 degrees 17 minutes 35 seconds East 133.89 feet to an
existing iron pipe; runs thence North 19 degrees 17 minutes 05 seconds East
203.93 feet to a new iron pipe; runs thence South 70 degrees 36 minutes 06
seconds East 362.23 feet to an existing iron pipe; runs thence South 70 degrees
33 minutes 06 seconds East 227.77 feet to a new iron pipe in the Western edge
of an unopened street; runs thence with the Western edge of said street South
19 degrees 23 minutes 25 seconds West 735.23 feet to an existing iron pipe;
continues with said street South 19 degrees 27 minutes 27 seconds West 192 feet
to an existing iron pipe in the Northern right-of-way of Stuart Avenue; runs
thence with the Northern right-of-way of Stuart Avenue North 70 degrees 26
minutes 50 seconds West 20 feet to an iron pipe; runs thence North 70 degrees
33 minutes 37 seconds West 140 feet to an iron pipe; runs thence North 19
degrees 28 minutes 10 seconds East 98.95 feet; runs thence North 19 degrees 37
minutes 02 seconds East 65.91 feet; runs thence North 19 degrees 26 minutes 55
seconds East 24.64 feet; runs thence North 19 degrees 23 minutes 18 seconds
East 38.47 feet to an existing iron pipe; runs thence North 70 degrees 31
minutes 54 seconds West 346.16 feet to a new iron pipe in the Eastern right-of-
way of North Atlantic Avenue; runs thence with the Eastern line of North
Atlantic Avenue North 17 degrees 37 minutes 04 seconds West 137.64 feet and
containing 10.65 acres containing tracts 1, 2, 3 and 4 as per survey for R. I.
Mintz Heirs by Bobby M. Long & Associates, dated April 20, 2005, and recorded
in Map Book 35 at page 96, Brunswick County Register of Deeds.
This being the same property as shown on a plat entitled “Area Annexed by the
City of Southport N.C. on January 11, 2007 recorded in Map Cabinet _______ at
Page _______ of the Brunswick County Registry.
Section 2. Upon and after January 11, 2007 the above-described territory and
its citizens and property shall be subject to all debts, laws, ordinances and
regulations in force in the City of Southport and shall be entitled to the same
privileges and benefits as other parts of the City of Southport. Said territory
shall be subject to municipal taxes according to G.S. 160A-58.10.
Section 3.  The Mayor of the City of Southport shall cause to be recorded in
the office of the Register of Deeds of Brunswick County, and in the office of
the Secretary of State at Raleigh, North Carolina, an accurate map of the
annexed territory, described in Section 1 above, together with a duly certified
copy of this ordinance. Such a map shall also be delivered to the County Board
of Elections, as required by G. S. 163-288.1.
ADOPTED, this the 11th day of January 2007.
S/Norman R. Holden
Mayor
ATTEST:
S/Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
VII.
Public Hearing – Cape Fear Trading Group, Conditional Use Permit for a
Residential Cluster Development at Maple and 9th Street (Stevens Park)
Alderman Callari moved to enter Public Hearing, seconded by Alderman Brown to
receive comments on a request by Cape Fear Trading Group to obtain a
Conditional Use Permit for a residential cluster development at Maple and 9th
Street (Stevens Park).
Mayor Holden stated that the City Clerk must swear in the people wishing to
speak on Conditional Use Permits, which is a requirement of the North Carolina
General Statutes.
Mr. Chad Hicks, Planning Director, explained that the Planning Board
recommended Cape Fear Trading Group be granted a Conditional Use permit for a
residential cluster development at 9th and Maple Street. This CUP will allow
the developers to utilize the residential cluster development section of the
UDO in order to develop the Stevens Park property. He communicated that the
residential cluster development will not increase density on the site but will
provide an alternative development option which will preserve the natural
resources of the land. Mr. Hicks stated if the conditional use permit was
approved, the subdivision would still have to go through the standard approval
process.
For clarification after a question by Alderman Callari, Mr. Hicks stated that
there would be more open space due to the houses being closer together.
Alderman Powell asked if the traffic issue was going to be addressed. Mr. Hicks
stated that it will be addressed in the subdivision review process and the
Planning Board will submit a recommendation to the Board of Aldermen.
There being no other comments, Alderman Callari moved to re-enter regular
session, seconded by Alderman Brown, the vote was unanimous.
Attorney Isenberg stated in approving a conditional use permit, the Board and
Planning Board shall find as a specific finding of fact that the permit will
comply with the following four facts:
a)   That the use will not materially endanger the public health, safety, or
general welfare if located where proposed and developed according to the plan
as submitted and approved;
b)   That the use meets all required conditions and specifications;
c)   That the use will not adversely affect the use or any physical attribute
of adjoining or abutting property, or that the use is a public necessity; and
d)   That the location and character of the use, if developed according to the
plan as submitted and approved, will be in harmony with the area in which it is
to be located and in general conformity with the City of Southport Land Use
Plan.
Alderman Callari moved to grant the conditional use permit based on the above
requirements being met. Alderman Brown seconded the motion; the vote of
approval was unanimous.
VIII.
Public Hearing on a request by Southport Marina, Inc. to obtain a Conditional
Use Permit to construct a dry storage boat building greater than forty feet
(40’)
Mayor Holden announced that the City Clerk would swear in those persons wishing
to speak during this Hearing on the Conditional Use Permit.
Alderman Childs moved, seconded by Alderman Callari to enter Public Hearing on
a request by Southport Marina, Inc. to obtain a Conditional Use Permit to
construct a dry storage boat building greater than forty feet (40’) in height
at the Marina site. Motion carried.
Mr. Hicks, City Planner stated the Planning Board recommended that Southport
Marina Inc be granted a conditional use permit to build a dry storage facility
in excess of forty feet (40’). Marina representatives stated that this request
would allow for a more aesthetically looking building to be constructed as
opposed to a box type structure. The height requested by the Conditional Use
Permit is to allow construction up to fifty-five feet (55’). During
presentation to the Planning Board, they were told that the old dry stack
facility was approximately forty-eight feet (48’) in height.
Mr. Hicks stated that it meets the four requirements of the UDO.
Alderman Powell in observation noted that one Planning Board member voted
against the Conditional Use Permit, and others voted in favor. He noted that it
has only been eight (8) months since the Planning Board recommended that height
restrictions be thirty-five feet (35’) in the City, and asked what was going
on. Mayor Holden noted that the Planning Board would need to address this
question.
Mr. Hicks stated if the conditional use is granted, the entire project will
come back to the Planning Board.
Robert Plassman of 5099 Fernwood Drive and Chairman of the Board of
Adjustments, stated as a resident of Southport, he objects to the Conditional
Use Permit because the proposed building does not fit the harmony of Southport
and it goes beyond the recommendation of the Planning Board. If approved, this
will open the door for others.
Mr. Mark Johnson, representing the Southport Marina, stated that they have
spent numerous hours working and repairing facilities at the marina in order to
have a nice updated marina for the citizens. He explained that the overall
ambience of the facility has been neglected and the group that leases the
marina is working diligently to bring the marina up-to-date and in so doing,
they are trying to embrace the essence of Southport. He stated that the
additional height requested is to create warmth and an inviting feeling o
making the building attractive other than a box. He stated the leasee has
complied with every aspect of the City Code. He explained that the dry storage
is for public access and is the largest part of the marina operations and more
people are opting to place their boats in storage rather than hauling them back
and forth. Mr. Johnson stated the height was originally fifty feet (50’). They
requested the Conditional Use Permit to construct the dry storage building
greater than forty-feet (40’) high.
Mr. Ed Boguskie asked the Board if the height limit is changed, will this open
up other areas. He asked the Board to deny the request.
Mr. John Winter stated that he is a tenant in dry storage and has been for the
past 10 years and would like to see a full size dry stack unit.
No further comments from the public, Alderman Childs motioned to re-enter
regular session, seconded by Alderman Callari. The vote carried.
Attorney Isenberg read the criteria for a Conditional Use Permit.
a)   That the use will not materially endanger the public health, safety, or
general welfare if located where proposed and developed according to the plan
as submitted and approved;
b)   That the use meets all required conditions and specifications;
c)   That the use will not adversely affect the use or any physical attribute
of adjoining or abutting property, or that the use is a public necessity; and
d)   That the location and character of the use, if developed according to the
plan as submitted and approved, will be in harmony with the area in which it is
to be located and in general conformity with the City of Southport Land Use
Plan.
Alderman Fisher stated he does not believe the Conditional Use meets criteria C
and D and believes the building should not exceed the height limit of 40 feet.
He moved to deny the Conditional Use Permit, seconded by Alderman Callari, the
vote of approval was unanimous.
IX.
Public Hearing - PARTF Grant
Alderman Callari moved to enter Public Hearing to receive comments on the City
applying for a PARTF Grant to develop the Lowe-White Memorial Park. Motion
seconded by Alderman Brown, vote carried.
Ms. Heather Hemphill, Director of Parks and Recreation, presented a conceptual
drawing (not to scale) on developing the Lowe-White Park. She stated the park
consists of approximately 7.18 acres, and 2-3 acres is wetland. They proposed
to have 2400 feet of nature trail and a boardwalk over wetlands. Total cost of
developing the park is $388,808 and of this amount, the city’s match is
$194,404.00.
Mr. Bob Zuback of 319 Willis Drive stated that he lives adjacent to the park
and requested a copy of the map.
Mr. Charles Ewing of Robert Ruark Drive asked the Board about the 55 and Over
Club House, and when is the City going to set it up? Mayor Holden explained
that this hearing is to receive comments from the public on the PARTF grant
application only.
Mr. Richard Entwistle of 316 Willis Drive asked once the grant is awarded,
whether or not the drawing can be changed. Ms. Hemphill stated that it possibly
could with the approval of the grant agency. She stated that the City is
sensitive to the neighbors that live adjacent to the park.
Ms. Hemphill noted that a Special Meeting is scheduled January 22, 2007 to
adopt a Parks and Recreation Master Plan to submit with the grant.
There being no further comments, Alderman Childs moved to re-enter regular
session, seconded by Alderman Callari, the vote was unanimous.
X.
Public Hearing – Non-Contiguous Annexation
Alderman Childs moved, seconded by Alderman Callari to enter Public Hearing on
the question of annexing a certain tract of non-contiguous property belonging
to the City of Southport located between Bethel Church Road and Sunny Point.
Vote carried.
There were no public comments; however, Alderman Fisher explained that this is
the Swain Tract purchased by the city for its WWTP re-use facility. The
Southeast Sanitary District will treat the sewerage and the effluent will then
be pumped to the spray fields at this location. The plan is to sow some type of
crop, possibly sod. They are currently negotiating with companies pertaining to
this matter. He explained that the City is restricted because this is in the
Sunny Point buffer zone and nothing can be built at this location.
Alderman Childs moved, seconded by Alderman Adams to re-enter regular session,
vote carried.
Alderman Fisher motioned to approve the non-contiguous annexation and to adopt
the following annexation ordinance, seconded by Alderman Brown, the vote
carried.
AN ORDINANCE TO EXTEND THE CORPORATE LIMITS OF THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT, NORTH
CAROLINA
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen has adopted a resolution under G. S. 160A-58.7,
stating its intent to annex the area described below; and
WHEREAS, a public hearing on the question of this annexation was held at
Southport City Hall at 7:30 pm on January 11, 2007, after due notice; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that the area meets the
requirements of G. S. 160A-58.1(b), as modified by Act of the N. C. General
Assembly applicable to the City of Southport and as authorized by the
Annexation Agreement with the City of Boiling Spring Lakes and the resolution
adopted by the Brunswick County Board of Commissioners, as follows:
a.    The nearest point on the proposed satellite corporate limits is not more
than three (3) miles from the primary corporate limits of the City of
Southport;
b.    No point on the proposed satellite corporate limits is closer to the
primary corporate limits of another city than to the primary corporate limits
of the City of Southport except for the City of Boiling Spring Lakes and an
Annexation Agreement has been entered into with the City of Boiling Spring
Lakes allowing the City of Southport to annex said area; in addition, a
resolution has been adopted by the Brunswick County Board of Commissioners
pursuant to G. S. 160A-58.24(e) consenting to said annexation by the City of
Southport;
c.    The area is so situated that the City of Southport will be able to
provide the same services within the proposed satellite corporate limits that
it provides within the primary corporate limits;
d.    The area is not a subdivision; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that the annexation of the area is
in the public interest;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport, North Carolina that:
Section 1. By virtue of the authority granted by G. S. 160A-58.7, the
Annexation Agreement with the City of Boiling Spring Lakes and resolution of
the Brunswick County Board of Commissioners, the following described
noncontiguous property owned by the City of Southport is hereby annexed and
made part of the City of Southport as of the date hereof:
DESCRIPTION OF ANNEXATION TRACT B
COMMENCING AT N.C.G.S. MONUMENT “E117”, (NC GRID COORDINATES:
N = 84,540.080 AND E = 2,293,547.953);
THENCE N 71°24’32”E 4,304.21 FEET TO A POINT LOCATED AT THE PROPERTY CORNER ON
THE WESTERN RIGHT-OF-WAY LINE OF THE CAROLINA POWER & LIGHT 200’ RAILROAD SPUR
AS SHOWN ON A PLAT OF BOUNDARY SURVEY FOR THE TOWN OF SOUTHPORT BY WITHERS &
RAVENEL- BRUNSWICK SURVEYING DATED 01-19-06 AND RECORDED AT THE BRUNSWICK
COUNTY REGISTER OF DEEDS IN MAP CABINET 35, PAGE 159;
THENCE N 66°42’29”E 200.56’ TO A POINT ON THE EASTERN RIGHT-OF-WAY LINE OF THE
CAROLINA POWER & LIGHT 200’ RAILROAD SPUR, SAID POINT BEING THE POINT OF
BEGINNING;
THENCE N 19°00’10” 1,521.80’ ALONG THIS LINE TO A POINT ON THE SOUTHERN RIGHT-
OF-WAY LINE ON THE SUNNY POINT ACCESS ROAD;
THENCE N 88°40’03”E 1,458.00’ ALONG THIS LINE TO A POINT;
THENCE RUNNING WITH THE CENTER LINE OF
OLD WILMINGTON SOUTHPORT ROAD
THE FOLLOWING 12 COURSES;
S 32°49’44”W 131.76’ TO A POINT;
THENCE S 31°19’35”W 200.90’ TO A POINT;
THENCE S 35°15’02”W 156.66’ TO A POINT;
THENCE S 39°56’03”W 213.18’ TO A POINT;
THENCE S 17°33’26”W 137.97’ TO A POINT;
THENCE S 07°23’25”W 159.99’ TO A POINT;
THENCE S 39°07’57”W 227.29’ TO A POINT;
THENCE S 46°41’21”W 117.81’ TO A POINT;
THENCE S 28°04’28”W 64.80’ TO A POINT;
THENCE S 45°45’17”W 272.75’ TO A POINT;
THENCE S 25°56’18”W 88.42’ TO A POINT;
THENCE S 06°58’30”W 24.91’ TO A POINT ON THE EASTERN RIGHT-OF-WAY LINE OF THE
CAROLINA POWER & LIGHT 200’ RAILROAD SPUR, SAID POINT BEING THE POINT OF
BEGINNING AND CONTAINING 24.94 ACRES.
ALL BEARINGS ARE ORIENTED TO N.C. GRID NORTH, N.A.D. 1983.
ALL DISTANCES ARE HORIZONTAL GRID DISTANCES.
SCALE FACTOR = 1.0001172.
DESCRIPTION OF ANNEXATION TRACT C
COMMENCING AT
N.C.G.S.
MONUMENT
“E117”, (NC GRID COORDINATES:
N = 84,540.080 AND E = 2,293,547.953);
THENCE N 71°24’32”E 4,304.21 FEET TO A POINT LOCATED AT THE PROPERTY CORNER ON
THE WESTERN RIGHT-OF-WAY LINE OF THE CAROLINA POWER & LIGHT 200’ RAILROAD SPUR
AS SHOWN ON A PLAT OF BOUNDARY SURVEY FOR THE TOWN OF SOUTHPORT BY WITHERS &
RAVENEL-BRUNSWICK SURVEYING DATED 01-19-06 AND RECORDED AT THE BRUNSWICK COUNTY
REGISTER OF DEEDS IN MAP CABINET 35, PAGE 159; SAID POINT BEING THE POINT OF
BEGINNING;
THENCE RUNNING WITH THE CENTER OF WHITE SPRING BRANCH THE FOLLOWING 31 COURSES;
S 80°36’41”W 22.26’ TO A POINT;
THENCE N 48°50’15”W 26.43’ TO A POINT;
THENCE N 06°26’49”W 32.19’ TO A POINT;
THENCE N 61°39’31”W 169.95’ TO A POINT;
THENCE N 67°19’02”W 169.86’ TO A POINT;
THENCE N 32°44’11”W 101.72’ TO A POINT;
THENCE N 03°52’12”E 92.59’ TO A POINT;
THENCE N 18°02’31”W 120.20’ TO A POINT;
THENCE N 59°28’41”W 80.86’ TO A POINT;
THENCE N 80°00’42”W 65.20’ TO A POINT;
THENCE N 10°03’37”E 39.86’ TO A POINT;
THENCE N 21°00’31”E 73.25’ TO A POINT;
THENCE N 24°39’35”E 52.05’ TO A POINT;
THENCE N 11°04’44”E 39.94’ TO A POINT;
THENCE N 45°13’44”W 66.59’ TO A POINT;
THENCE N 81°53’18”W 65.17’ TO A POINT;
THENCE N 39°28’08”W 116.50’ TO A POINT;
THENCE N 07°14’54”W 52.99’ TO A POINT;
THENCE N 02°34’40”E 104.21’ TO A POINT;
THENCE N 23°34’06”E 57.66’ TO A POINT;
THENCE N 15°04’23”W 45.13’ TO A POINT;
THENCE N 24°48’30”W 67.11’ TO A POINT;
THENCE N 48°57’38”W 39.74’ TO A POINT;
THENCE S 55°33’08”W 16.19’ TO A POINT;
THENCE N 77°55’06”W 49.40’ TO A POINT;
THENCE N 66°56’53”W 21.83’ TO A POINT;
THENCE N 40°20’01”W 51.98’ TO A POINT;
THENCE S 76°28’59”W 71.12’ TO A POINT;
THENCE S 69°15’52”W 71.83’ TO A POINT;
THENCE N 62°05’06”W 58.18’ TO A POINT;
THENCE S 85°14’47”W 118.09’ TO A POINT;
THENCE N 53°34’06”W 18.22’ TO A POINT ON THE SOUTHERN RIGHT-OF-WAY LINE OF THE
SUNNY POINT ACCESS ROAD;
THENCE N 71°39’54”E 707.14’ ALONG THIS LINE TO A POINT ON THE WESTERN RIGHT-OF-
WAY LINE OF THE CAROLINA POWER & LIGHT 200’ RAILROAD SPUR;
THENCE S 19°00’10”E 1,559.83’ ALONG THIS LINE TO A POINT, SAID POINT BEING THE
POINT OF BEGINNING AND CONTAINING 10.31 ACRES.
ALL BEARINGS ARE ORIENTED TO N.C. GRID NORTH, N.A.D. 1983.
ALL DISTANCES ARE HORIZONTAL GRID DISTANCES.
SCALE FACTOR = 1.0001172.
Section 2. The Mayor shall cause to be recorded in the office of the Register
of Deeds of Brunswick County and in the Office of the Secretary of State in
Raleigh, North Carolina, an accurate map of the annexed territory, together
with a certified copy of this ordinance. Such a map shall also be delivered to
the Brunswick County Board of Elections as required by G. S. 163-288.1.
Adopted this 11th day of January 2007.
City of Southport
BY:
S/Norman R. Holden
Mayor
ATTEST:
S/Regina W. Alexander
Clerk
XI.
Public Hearing – Zoning Classification of Open Space
Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Brown, to enter Public Hearing to
receive comments on assigning the zoning classification of Open Space (OS) to
city property located between Bethel Church Road and Sunny Point. Motion
carried.
Mr. Hicks stated that the Planning Board recommended the land near Sunny Point
be designated open space (OS). This designation will not permit any structures
to be built but will allow the city to use the land for municipal uses, such as
park space.
Alderman Powell for clarification stated the rezoning would encompass all the
land annexed (440 acres) and 405 acres of this property is in the Sunny Point
buffer zone, and 35 acres is not. He recalled that the fire department
requested to use this land for practice and drying their hoses, but if this
were the case, the city cannot build anything at this location if the property
is zoned OS. He asked about the possibility of zoning the larger tract and
leaving the 35 acres unzoned. City Attorney Isenberg stated if the property is
not zoned, anything could be located there. He stated due to the wording of the
legal notice, the issue is whether the Board wish to zone the property Open
Space (OS).
City Manager Gandy noted that the wording of the notice was advertised in
accordance with recommendation from the Planning Board.
Chief Cumbee stated that the Fire Department requested and talked about
installing a ramp in order to be able to back trucks up to the pond to test the
fire hoses. It was noted that the property in question is not in the blast
zone.
Alderman Adams stated if the city has an opportunity to extract the 35 acres
not located in the blast zone, then it should be considered. City Attorney
Isenberg stated that the Board could rezone this area later.
Alderman Fisher noted that open space is not a permitted use on page 89 in the
UDO. Mr. Hicks explained that the utility section in the UDO covers what the
city proposes to do with the land.
Mayor asked if this property will have any bearing on the grant, Mr. Grant
stated the statutes dictates that the land be annexed and zoned as
expeditiously as possible.
Larry Coble of 700 Leonard Street cautioned the Board about storage building if
crops are harvested. Alderman Powell stated that the city will not need any
buildings at that location, but will install an irrigation system.
No further discussion, Alderman Powell motioned to re-enter regular session,
seconded by Alderman Callari, vote carried.
Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Fisher, to rezone the property
located between Bethel Church Road and Sunny Point to open space (OS). The vote
was unanimous.
Alderman Fisher asked that the Board revisit page 89 of the UDO and add
government use as a permitted use.
XII.
Preliminary Plat – Osprey Landing
Mr. Hicks in presentation to the Board presented the preliminary plat for
Osprey Landing and noted that the Planning Board recommended approval. He
explained that this 121-unit development is located off Robert Ruark Drive and
the developers have committed to an allocation schedule of 20 units per year
due to sewer considerations. All requirements of the UDO have been met in the
site plan with the exception of continuing discussion in regards to the
potential upgrade of the Forest Oak lift station. WK Dickson is working with
staff to finalize the necessary specifications regarding this upgrade. The
developer is awaiting the outcome of this engineering work in order to finalize
the lift station capacity and design of their lift station as well as what will
be expected of them in the way of contribution to the Forest Oaks upgrade. WK
Dickson has indicated that this engineering work should be completed by the end
of January. Once engineering work is completed, staff and WK Dickson will meet
with the developer and their engineers to formulate the final design of the
wastewater components of their system and resolve any remaining issues relating
to the Forest Oaks upgrade.
Planning Board members were concerned about the added traffic on the existing
road system around this development. The traffic study shows that there will be
some intersections that will drop from a level of service of D to F around year
2011. The developer told board members that surrounding projects were taken
into account during the traffic study and that all required NCDOT standards
were adhered to when conducting the study. This plan shows a reduction in
overall density since it first came before the Planning Board. The developer
has been proactive in lowering the number of home sites in an effort to
mitigate traffic impacts.
Alderman Powell motioned, seconded by Alderman Brown to approve the Preliminary
Plat for Osprey Landing.  The vote of approval was unanimous.
XIII.
Preliminary Plat – Yacht Basin Phase I (Cape Fear Trading Group)
Mr. Hicks stated the developer asked that the preliminary and final plat be
presented for approval. He explained that this could be granted contingent upon
written approval of the storm water plans and a bond guaranteeing completion of
the storm water system. The plan met requirements of the UDO and storm water
issues were addressed. FEMA has given a favorable review of the plan and W. K.
Dickson has approved the storm water management plans, but no formal written
statement of approval was received prior to this meeting, however; City
Engineers spoke with staff by telephone. Mr. Hicks stated staff recommends
approval of the preliminary plat but see no problem with the final plat subject
to a bond being in place guaranteeing improvements to storm water. If the Board
opts for this, staff will with not sign the final plat until a letter of credit
is provided and the engineers for Cape Fear Trading provide a cost estimate.
The city will be protected if the Board decides to approve the final plat based
on these contingencies.
Alderman Adams asked the Attorney about this option. Attorney Isenberg stated
the Board could approve the plat contingent upon the letter of credit and the
city accepting the cost estimate from Cape Fear Trading Engineers. The Board
may require the letter of credit to be in writing. Mayor stated the Board has
always required the letter of credit to be in writing.
Mr. Hicks explained if the Board approves the preliminary plat, construction
can commence immediately, if both are approved, the developer will conference
with City Engineers and the bond will have to be in place, staff will hold the
plat until everything is agreed upon in writing.
Alderman Powell asked if both plats are approved, how this would affect the
remainder of the development. Mr. Hicks stated storm water plans covers Phase I
and II; however, Phase II of Yacht Basin will have to go through the Planning
Board planned building group review and approval process. In answer to a
question from Alderman Powell, it was explained that W.K. Dickson signed off on
the storm water for Phase Phase II and I. Mr. Hicks assured the Board staff
would be vigilant and insure that storm water is in place. He noted that the
warranty bond is for a one-year period. Attorney Isenberg reiterated that the
city does not have to sign off on the plat until all the improvements have been
installed or as long as there is a letter of credit or bond in place. The plat
cannot be signed off until all improvements are completed and accepted by the
City.
City Manager Gandy explained that there is a performance bond, which will run
whatever time it takes to install the improvements. The warranty bond is
enacted once the infrastructure is in place and accepted after complete build
out.
Alderman Childs asked about the property being under water at the foot of Bay
Street and plans for addressing this issue. Mr. Hicks stated FEMA reviewed the
plans and signed off on them.
Mr. Eric Lappela, Engineer and Developer Manager for Cape Fear Trading
addressed the flooding on Bay Street and they will raise the grade of the
street and raise the storm drainage, which will be above the level of the
highest tidal flooding recorded. Alderman Powell stated the drawings previously
received did not show elevations of stated magnitude. Mr. Lappela explained
that those were preliminary elevations and explained the proposed elevations.
Alderman Powell refuted the elevations cited to handle tidal flooding and storm
water.
Mr. Henry Bridger’s of Leonard Street stated that twice in 2006 sewerage was
flowing in the street during the lunar high tide. Mr. Lappela stated this will
be addressed and they propose to eliminate the backflow which caused the
flooding
Ms. Ann Lee Wiggershaw, stated she was one-third owner in the Provision Company
and owner of the Flavors Ice Cream Shop asked that the Board not approve
anything unless it is in writing, she is concerned about the area in question.
Mayor asked the position of the Board concerning the Yacht Basin Project.
Attorney Isenberg advised that the Board can approve the preliminary plat not
subject to the bond, but if both are approved, the final plat should be
approved subject to a bond or letter of credit.
Preliminary Plat – Alderman Adams moved to approve the preliminary plat for the
Yacht Basin Phase I project, seconded by Alderman Childs, the votes of approval
were 5 ayes, Aldermen Adams, Childs, Brown, Fisher and Callari. 1 no vote,
Alderman Powell.
Motion passed.
Final Plat – Mayor Holden noted that the Board did not receive any information
in the agenda material on the final plat, only the preliminary. Alderman Fisher
requested the information from the engineers be submitted in writing for Board
review.
Board declined action on the final plat.
XIV.
Audit Report FY 2006-2006 – Minton Padgett of Brock, Padgett, Berry and
Chandler
Mr. Padgett reviewed with the Board a financial analysis of the audit and the
financial condition of the City for FY 2006-2007. (Copy of the Audit is
available in the Finance Department and City Manager’s Office)
XV.
Southport Marina
Item tabled on the Southport Marina renovation project.
XVI.
Resolution – Dr. Martin L. King, Jr.
Alderman Childs moved, seconded by Alderman Callari to adopt the following
resolution in honor of Dr. M. L. King, Jr.’s celebration January 14-15, 2007.
Vote carried.
RESOLUTION HONORING DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING JR. CELEBRATION
WHEREAS, the Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Celebration Committee was formed and
entrusted with the responsibility to plan a community wide celebration to
appropriately honor this great leader; and
WHEREAS, Dr. Martin Luther King Celebration Committee has selected the dates of
Sunday, January 14th and Monday, January 15, 2007 to hold this celebration with
events scheduled to include a march, youth programs and other similar events;
and
WHEREAS,  the Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Celebration has established a mission
statement in which its most important goal is to bring people of the community
together for the purpose of promoting good will and harmony for the betterment
of the entire community; and
WHEREAS, it is extremely important that the great works and deeds of Dr. Martin
Luther King, Jr. be duly remembered, honored and recognized in this most
fitting and proper way.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Mayor and Board of Aldermen of
Southport recognizes January 14-15, 2007 as the official dates of celebration
by the Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Celebration Committee for the purpose of
honoring this great man and encourage all citizens to participate in the
activities scheduled.
THIS 11th day of January 2007.
S/Norman R. Holden, Mayor
Attest:
S/Regina W. Alexander
Clerk
XVII.
Public Works – Equipment
Alderman Fisher moved, seconded by Alderman Powell to approve the financing
arrangement for the Public Works equipment and vehicles per recommendation of
the finance director as outlined below. Vote carried. 
BB&T (5yr Contract)   3.77%      $30,977.34   $154,886.70
(Vactor Truck)
FCB   (3yr Contract)   3.72%      $17,158.03   $51,474.09
(Three (3) Ford F-250 trucks)
To:      Honorable Mayor, Board of Aldermen and City Manager
From:      Patty D Miller, Finance Director
Date:      January 4, 2007
Re:      Review and Approval of Financing for (2) Contracts
         Vactor Combination Sewer Truck         $144,034
         (Purchase price approved at July 2006 Board Meeting)
         5 year Contract in Water/Sewer Department
         (3) 2008 Ford F250 Trucks            $49,650
         (Purchase price approved at Sept. 2006 Board Meeting)
         3 year Contract. 2 trucks for Street Dept, 1 for W/S)
         We have received the following bids for finance
            RATE      ANNUAL PAYMENT   TOTAL COST
BB&T   (3yr Contract)   3.82%      $17,174.16         $51,522.48
   (5yr Contract)   3.77%      $30,977.34         $154,886.70
Security Savings Bank
   (3yr Contract)   4.067%   $17,215.99         $51,647.98
   (5yr Contract)   4.236%   $31,248.76         $156,243.80
Waccamaw Bank
   (3 yr Contract)   4.50%
   (5yr Contract)   4.50%
RBC Centura
   (3yr Contract)   4.39%      $17,265.92         $51,797.76
   (5yr Contract)   3.89%      $31,046.33         $155,231.65
First Citizens
   (3yr Contract)   3.72%      $17,158.03         $51,474.09
   (5yr Contract)   3.79%      $30,988.83         $154,944.15
I recommend that financing for the Vactor Truck (5yr Contract) to go to BB&T
and the financing for the (3) Ford F250 (3yr Contract) to go to First Citizens.
XVIII.
Change Orders – Pumper Truck
City Manager Gandy stated since the bid has been awarded to C. W. Williams for
a new fire pumper, Chief Cumbee is requesting approval of three (3) change
orders to add improvements to the truck totaling $5,197.00.
·   Enclose all ladders and hard suction hoses – requirement in the year
2008   $3,292.00
·   Swirl finish added to inside compartments - $90.00
·   Air bottle storage - $1,815.00
Alderman Powell moved to approve the change orders to add improvements to the
new fire pumper totaling $5,197.00, seconded by Alderman Childs. Vote
unanimous.
XIX.
Forestry Committee – Appointments
Alderman Childs moved to appoint Brian Wester and Trudy Young to the Southport
Forestry Committee, seconded by Alderman Brown. Vote unanimous. (Bylaws state
each member serves a 2-year term commencing with the calendar year) Mr. Gandy
stated he would submit another application at the February meeting to fill
another vacancy on the Committee.
XX.
Board Retreat
Alderman Childs moved to schedule the annual board retreat March 10, 2007, 8:30
a.m. at the Hood Building (Dosher Hospital Board Room) Motion seconded by
Alderman Adams. 4 ayes, Aldermen Adams, Childs, Callari and Brown. 2 noes,
Aldermen Fisher and Powell. (Retreat scheduled March 10, 2007, 8:30 a.m.)
XXI.
Other Business
Alderman Fisher informed the Board that the 55 & Over Club House has to be
moved out of Stephen’s Park by the first week in February. A decision has not
been made on where to locate the building. They have looked at sites on
Atlantic Avenue, the Alternative School, and the only other option is the Lowe-
White Park. A request was received from Cape Fear Trading Group asking to use
the building as a sales office, however; they have not had time to explore this
option. The earliest they can make the club house a part of the Parks &
Recreation Department is December 2007 or January 2008. There is a possibility
the building can be rented with the utilities being paid, possibly negotiating
that they would move it saving $15,000. He stated the only other option is to
move it and leave it until everything is worked out on where to set it up. The
consensus of the Board is to rent the building and if this does not go through,
move it. Mayor asked that the building be re-named and propose that the City
eventually build a new Sr. Citizen facility.
Alderman Fisher reported that the Parking Committee erected signs along Moore
and Howe. They are currently waiting for a redesign of the signs and looking at
the possibility of lowering them due to visibility. He will make a report at
the next meeting.
XXII.
Adjourn – 9:28 p.m.
Alderman Childs moved to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Alderman Brown, the
vote carried.
__________________________
Mayor Pro Tem
_______________________________
Clerk
JANUARY 16, 2007
SPECIAL MEETING/RESCUE
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN SPECIAL MEETING/RESCUE
JANUARY 16, 2007  7:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor Norman Holden
            Aldermen Nelson Adams, Meezie Childs, Stuart Callari, Jim Powell,
            Jim Brown and Paul Fisher
ABSENT:         None
STAFF:         Rob Gandy, City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander, City Clerk
            Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
OTHER:         Tamie Drew, Rescue Squad Chief
            Ellen Dorsett
            Other Rescue Squad Members
Pursuant to notice posted in accordance with North Carolina General Statute
160A-71(b), the Board of Aldermen called a special meeting to consider
personnel/rescue squad matters.
Mayor Holden called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and announced the Special
Meeting is being held to consider accusations and comments regarding the Rescue
Squad Chief.
City Manager Gandy explained that the Mayor and Board members including members
from the public brought concerns to his attention pertaining to the Rescue
Squad Chief harassing a city employee and interfering with his duties. He
stated several people in the community had apparently witnessed those arguments
and reported this to Board members.
·   He also cited the golf cart incident that took place in December on the
west side of town, which was a concern to the Board and himself.
·   The lack of supervision from the Rescue Squad Chief by allowing a member to
ride ATV’s in this manner, including the incident on Caswell Street in
December; and an incident recently in Franklin Square Park.
·   City Manager Gandy stated it was reported to the Mayor and Board that
children have been left unattended at the Rescue Squad Building while members
were on calls.
Mayor Holden asked Chief Drew for comments:
Chief Drew stated that most of the incidents occurred by a general member of
the department who is not a paid member. She stated that she could control him
to a certain extent but limited as to what she can and cannot do because he is
not a paid member. She explained, “This is something Bob Redden enacted when he
was the Chief.” She stated on both occasions when the incidents took place, the
individual was not on the time clock and being paid by the department.
She stated as of today she “had not received any confirmed documentation of
what was entailed the night of the golf cart incident or in fact, the ATV
incident. All this was submitted to Rob as of today, and when I received these,
I guess about noon or 11:00 today, by noon I had suspended that member and
provided Rob with documentation.” She stated she did not address this issue,
because she was not aware of it. City Manager Gandy told Chief Drew that the
Officer on duty, who wrote the report, Officer Connelly, notified her that
night in December. Chief Drew stated the officer notified her at midnight. City
Manager Gandy stated he believed that she was given the details and he finds
out now that he was wrong and want it substantiated today, that there was a
non-member also riding on this vehicle and some other things occurred, but when
the individual in question showed back up at the department upon your request,
he was by himself. Chief Drew stated that he was alone, and of course; she
addressed him about his conduct and told him that it was not appreciated. She
informed him that he was no longer allowed on the golf cart, whether it was
during the day or night. She stated that the Police Officer called her at
midnight, and she got out of bed and went to the Rescue Squad Station to
address this issue with the person in question. His name was Tray Rogers, she
told Officer Connelly to take whatever legal actions necessary, and she would
stand behind him 100%.
Chief Drew stated there are only two-squad members who have children, herself
and the Assistant Chief. She explained that the Board may or may not be aware,
Charles (husband) has her children and they live with him and do not reside
with her. She stated that on one occasion, there was a situation where the
Assistant Chief had her children at the station, this was addressed and she was
told if this happened again, there would be disciplinary action. She stated
that she is aware that this is a major liability, and all the children are
legally old enough to baby-sit themselves.
Chief Drew explained that she was unsure of the comment about the argument with
a city employee.
Mayor Holden stated that he personally observed Chief Drew and a city employee
in front of the Fire Department and it appeared that she was arguing; she had
her finger in the City employee’s face or chest. Chief Drew asked who was the
city employee, Mayor Holden responded it was a city employee, which is a
personnel matter, and she will have to see the City Manager. Chief Drew stated
other than her husband, who is a city employee; she is not at liberty to
discuss everything that has happened. Mayor Holden stated that the Board is not
here to listen to that, only to consider her position as the Supervisor and
Rescue Chief. The Board stated that they did not wish to discuss personal
matters because this was not the purpose of the meeting. Chief Drew told the
Board that she had copies of minutes from her business meetings where matters
have been addressed that were brought to her attention, including disciplinary
actions. She explained that anything brought to her attention by the City
Manager on any occasion, has been addressed.
In answer to a question from Alderman Childs, Chief Drew told the Board that
the member in question was suspended from the department. In accordance with
departmental by-laws, she has no recourse of action other than suspension, but
he has the right to appeal the process to the Membership Committee, and this
Committee will decide whether to uphold the suspension or to terminate him from
the department. She stated that he was suspended today (January 16, 2007)
because this was the first time that she had received any documentation as to
what actually transpired.
Mayor Holden asked Chief Drew if the Police Officer advised her the night of
the incident. She stated that she was told on the night in question that her
golf cart was out; the Police Officer stopped him and advised him to return it.
Mayor asked if he told her who had it, Chief Drew responded yes.
City Manager Gandy stated for the record, that he did not receive a copy of the
expanded report until Friday and gave Chief Drew a copy today. (January 16,
2007)
Alderman Fisher asked how does a person becomes a general member.
Chief Drew explained that a majority of squad members’ vote on a general member
in accordance with the by-laws but they are non-certified. The former Chief,
Bob Redden proposed this and it was adopted into the bylaws. She explained that
non-certified members could ride on the units and participate in the city’s
insurance. This person is working on his certification and is 19 years of age.
Alderman Powell stated anytime Rescue Equipment goes out, it should be logged
in a logbook. Chief Drew stated this has not been done in the 12 years that she
has been with the squad; however, this is something that can be implemented.
Aldermen Adams and Childs asked about the number of general members. Chief Drew
responded that she has five who are working on certification and one to two
general members usually work with a team of two certified EMT’s. Alderman
Childs suggested reducing it to one general member per team. Chief Drew stated
that the general members are covered under the City’s insurance (general
liability) because they are members of the department. Alderman Adams asked
about the number of general members the department can carry on their roster at
any one time. Chief Drew stated they can have no more than 40 general members,
but the by-laws do not address general members. They have 27 certified EMT’s
and 32 total Squad members.
Alderman Adams stated that it is a serious matter if vehicles are being allowed
to leave the squad building and not logged in or out. Chief Drew stated if it
is the Board’s desire, she could enact a policy that all vehicles are to be
logged in and out. She explained that she told the City Manager some things she
could perceive and stop before it happens, and some things she addresses after
it happens.
Chief Drew (after consulting with Ellen Dorsett, a member of the squad) stated
that the county keeps a log of vehicles that are called out when they call into
them and the information is on file when the vehicles leave the Rescue
Building. The golf cart is not considered an emergency vehicle and they would
not have it logged. Chief Drew stated after the incident in December, she took
the keys to the golf cart.
Alderman Powell stated the incident that occurred when the young man ran the
stopped sign on 9th Street, if a car had hit him, it could have come back on
the City’s insurance. Mayor Holden stated the individual who was not supposed
to be in the cart could have come back on the City as a liability.
Mayor Holden read a response from Tray Rogers to the Police Officer who told
him, “other city employees do it all the time” and the reason he did it is
because he was bored.
Chief Drew stated this was no excuse and when she received the documentation
today, this was addressed.
Alderman Callari stated that she is concerned about the number of young people
that she noticed running in and out of the building during her walks. She cited
Friday December 1, as being one of the times and she walked across to see what
was going on and questioned the reason for this. Chief Drew stated this has
never been a problem and the kids could have possibly been her children or the
Assistant Chief’s. She stated kids in that area may not be associated with the
Rescue or Fire Department. Chief Drew stated that it is a public building and
sometimes they have had citizens ask to use the restrooms.
Mayor Holden asked Chief Drew how frequently has she and the City Manager been
in consultation since she became Rescue Chief. Chief Drew stated that she has
met with the City Manager several times recently. In May, when complaints were
coming in from the former Chief, she met approximately 15 times, since last
Thursday, three times and a couple of months prior to that, other than to let
him know major things that were going on in the department, once a month. Mayor
asked Chief Drew if she believed that he offered his services as City Manager,
and she responded, “I do”. She stated anything that she has heard of or may be
a potential problem including the ATV incident, the confrontation between
Police Officer and one of her members, she discussed it with the City Manager.
Alderman Childs asked if there were any other undocumented things from the
Police Department. Chief Dove responded no.
Alderman Callari asked when rescue members stay at the building, do they take
their meals or does the Chief cook and feed them and allow other people to come
and eat. Chief Drew stated the squad building has a stove, microwave and
refrigerator and members are welcome to bring their food, cook, or warm it
because some of them are on duty twelve or more hours. Chief Drew stated other
people that are not a member of the squad are not allowed to come in and eat.
She stated in the past twelve months there is not a situation where she can
recall members or city employees eating with the exception that on occasion the
fire department has utilized the refrigerator and vice versa.
Alderman Powell asked why does Rescue Squad members feel that they can bring
their children to work and other city employees do not, “he believes this is an
accident waiting to happen and the captain guidance is not exactly right and
the ship is wavering down the road.” Chief Drew responded that there has never
been a situation where the parent was not present with their child. She stated
on occasion when her children have been present; she was not being paid by the
City. Mayor reiterated that she was on city property.
Alderman Powell stated when an individual takes on a responsibility as Chief of
the Rescue Squad or Fire Department; they are public officials who are visible
to the public and on duty 24 hours a day. Chief Drew agreed and stated she
cannot shut out her family and children because she is on duty 24 seven’s. She
stated that she upholds her position and believes that she has handled herself
in a professional manner concerning any situation that has occurred under her
leadership as Chief of the Rescue Squad. Chief Drew stated she has stressed
professionalism at all times to squad members.
Chief Drew reiterated that she has discussed the situation about the children
with members and her Assistant Chief.
Alderman Fisher asked Chief Drew if there is anything going on in her personal
life that will interfere with her professional job as Rescue Squad Chief. Chief
Drew responded that there are two different situations, but they will not
prohibit her from doing her job. She stated that because of one situation on
Wednesday night, she has taken steps to insure that a confrontation will not
happen again.
City Manager Gandy asked about the general member status and if they are
allowed to respond to calls the same as certified members. Chief Drew stated
no, because they are not allowed to operate red lights. City Manager Gandy
asked if she was positive this had not occurred and Chief stated yes. She
explained that this situation was addressed, and general members are not
allowed to respond with any type of red lights. They have been told that if
they come upon a wreck, that it would be appropriate for them to turn on some
type of hazard light i.e. a flashlight or to put on emergency flashers if they
use their personal vehicles to avoid being hit. City Manager Gandy stated he
does not believe that it would be appropriate for a general member to respond
in their personal vehicles to the Rescue Squad Building with red lights. Chief
Drew explained stated that her vehicle is considered an emergency vehicle
because she has lights and a siren. There are only two people in any emergency
department i.e. fire and rescue that are allowed to operate a siren. She has
expressed to the Police Officers that if any of her people are caught speeding
through the city, she expects them to be stopped. She discourages members from
using their personal vehicles. On occasion, this has happened when they
received a call at the Long Beach intersection near CVS and she has had to use
her personal vehicle to get through the intersection, but primarily has a crew
at the station. Mayor Holden asked Chief Drew if she was stating that, “No
member of the rescue and the blue van has been out of the City of Southport
within the last two to three weeks with the red light on.” She replied not to
her knowledge. City Manager Gandy interjected that he was talking about members
responding to calls by coming into the department to pick up a rescue vehicle.
Mayor noted that he was going to Wal-mart and before he reached the Pantry,
sirens came on and then red lights from the blue van. Chief Drew explained that
this is an ambulance fully equipped as a first response vehicle, but not used
to transport.
Alderman Childs stated that she is glad the Squad has young people interested
in becoming members and it is most important that they have some older adults.
Chief Drew stated that she understands this concern and noted how the
membership has increased.
Chief Drew explained in response to Alderman Child’s observation, that before
general members were added to the bylaws, they were considered probationers,
which are primarily used for new members that may want to come into the
department that need additional training. Rescue has twenty-seven certified and
five general members, and the individual that is out on disciplinary action is
on probationary status.
Alderman Adams asked Chief Drew if she realized the importance of her members
logging out vehicles and not depending on the county for this information.
Chief Drew stated this could be enacted with the exception of emergency calls.
There being no further questions or comments, Alderman Callari moved to suspend
the Chief until the Board has sufficient opportunity to look into deficiencies
more in-depth and recommends that the City Manager compile a list of these
complaints in order for the Board to review and follow up within forty-five
(45) days. 
Amendment: Alderman Callari amended the motion to place the Chief on probation
instead of temporary suspension for 45 days and the City Manager write a letter
detailing the reprimand including the deficiencies and any other infractions
the Board has found under Chief Drew’s supervision of the Rescue Squad. Motion
seconded by Alderman Powell.
Discussion: Alderman Childs asked if another motion could be made to note the
discrepancies and request the Chief report back in 45 days without placing her
on probation. The Attorney ruled if this motion did not pass, a substitute
motion could be made. Alderman Fisher asked what will the Chief be responding
to, and is she going to be sent something in writing that is clear and
documented. Attorney Isenberg replied that the letter from the City Manager
would state the deficiencies that need to be corrected. Alderman Fisher stated
the Board is aware of various situations and want to insure that the Chief’s
personal life will not interfere with the operation of any other department in
the City. His concern is whether the Code Enforcement Officer can do his job
with the restraining order in place; he is also the Captain of the Fire
Department and an employee of the city with certain duties that must be
performed. Chief Drew stated that they have been in proximity since the
restraining order, however; she does not care to address this issue because it
is her personal life. Mayor Holden and the Board agreed that they do not wish
to discuss any personal matters.
City Attorney asked that the restraining order not be brought up again because
a hearing is scheduled for Friday, it will be determined whether the order is
extended, canceled or modified, and no one will know until after the hearing,
however he is certain that it will be modified to the point that the employee
can perform his job.
Chief Drew assured the Board that she is not trying to keep the employee from
doing his job.
Ms. Ellen Dorsett requested to speak; Mayor Holden explained that this was not
a public hearing.
Clarification: Attorney Isenberg explained to Chief Drew, that she is still the
Chief, but has been placed on probationary status for 45 days. The City Manager
is to write a letter detailing the deficiencies that the Board has found to
exist under her supervision of the Rescue Squad, and she is to set forth those
actions to correct the deficiencies the Board believes exist in the department,
and if this does not happen; she can be terminated.
Chief Drew in question to the Board asked how this action coincides with any
type of disciplinary action in relationship with departmental bylaws. Attorney
Isenberg stated the members of the department could take whatever actions they
want, but since this department was created by ordinance of the City, the Board
has general control over the department. Mayor Holden stated the Board of
Aldermen approves the officers once elected.
Mayor then called for the vote: three ayes, Aldermen Callari, Adams and Powell,
three noes, Aldermen Brown, Childs and Fisher. Mayor Holden voted in the
affirmative to break the tie. Motion passed.
ADJOURNMENT – 8:06 P.M.
Alderman Childs moved to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Alderman Brown, vote
carried.
___________________________
Norman R. Holden, Mayor
_____________________________
Regina W. Alexander, CMC-Clerk
(Minutes are transcribed verbatim as possible per recording)
FEBRUARY 8, 2007
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
FEBRUARY 8, 2007  7:30 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, N. C.
 
PRESENT:         Aldermen Nelson Adams, Mary “Meezie” Childs, Paul Fisher,
            James Brown and James Powell
ABSENT:         Norman Holden, Mayor
            Mary “Stuart” Callari, Alderman
            Rob Gandy, City Manager
STAFF:         Regina W. Alexander, CMC-City Clerk
            Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
            Chad Hicks, City Planner
            Bob Grant, Director of Public Utilities
I.
Call to Order – 7:30 p.m.
Mayor Pro Tem Brown called the meeting to order at 7:35 p.m. and expressed the
Board’s appreciation to the citizens for attending the meetings and taking an
interest in the City.
II.
Invocation
Mayor Pro Tem Brown delivered the invocation.
III.
Approval of Minutes
Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Fisher to approve the regular
meeting minutes from January 11, 2007. Vote carried.
IV.
Citizen Matters (Non-Agenda)
Ms. Ann Marie Weigeshoff of 119 North Atlantic Avenue stated her disappointment
that no city officials were present at the Port Meeting according to an article
that she read in the State Port Pilot, and stated it is her hope, that someone
will attend the next meeting.
Mr. Tom Yost of 715 Longleaf Drive agreed with Ms. Weigeshoff. He also stated
that he lives behind the Jaycee Building with woods in between and questioned
the 55 & Over Club House being located there. He noted that some trees have
been taken out, and stated neither he nor his neighbors were notified by the
City.
Alderman Fisher explained that this has been discussed for two years and
several of the areas that where proposed was not feasible due to violating
regulations. The City owns this property, it can accommodate the building and
the City is doing everything possible to accommodate the residents. Mr. Yost
questioned parking and the roads. Alderman Fisher stated the Planning
Department is taking care of this and there will be no parking in private
driveways, only on City rights of way. Mr. Yost questioned whether all the
trees would be taken out. Alderman Fisher stated that some of the trees would
be left and there will be a buffer and landscaping in order to make the area
nice.
Ms. Sandra Perry, resident of 717 Longleaf stated parking is an issue, there is
many trees located between the properties and does not believe that it is
necessary to take the trees out which helps to create a buffer. She reiterated
concerns about the traffic and parking.
Mr. Chad Hicks for point of clarification stated the Ports meeting that was
referenced earlier in the meeting was for City Managers. He was supposed to
attend for the City Manager but on the morning of the meeting, the bottom of
his house was on fire, which caused him to miss the meeting. A second meeting
was held within the same week with consultants for the Port and the City of
Southport was represented.
Alderman Fisher stated since June, he has met three times at the State Ports,
attended meetings at the High School and Boiling Spring Lakes Community
Building, received e-mails and telephone calls, the same literature is given
each time because they are still in the Planning stages.
Alderman Adams stated he has been in meetings with Port Representatives and
others, he apologized that the citizens do not see or know about all the
meetings they attend, and assured the citizenry that the City is in touch with
all that is going on.
Mayor Pro Tem Brown explained that the City is as interested in the Port as the
citizens and the impact that it will have on Southport. He also communicated
that Board members have attended several meetings pertaining to the Port.
V.
Public Hearing on recommendation by the Planning Board to assign the zoning
classification of (HC) Highway Commercial to 1.6-acre parcel located at 5098
Southport-Supply Road annexed on October 12, 2006.
Alderman Childs moved to enter Public Hearing, seconded by Alderman Adams, vote
carried.
Chad Hicks stated the Planning Board recommended Highway Commercial District.
This zoning will fit in with the characteristics of the area and best matches
the zoning classification previously assigned by Brunswick County.
There were no public comments.
Alderman Childs moved to close the Public Hearing and re-enter regular session.
Vote carried.
Alderman Fisher moved to approve the zoning classification Highway Commercial
(HC) of the 1.6-acre parcel located at 5098 Southport-Supply Road annexed on
October 12, 2006, Alderman Childs seconded, motion passed.
VI.
Public Hearing on request by Cape Fear Trading Group to obtain a Conditional
Use Permit (CUP) to allow for mix of commercial and residential use for Yacht
Basin Phase II Project.
Alderman Childs moved seconded by Alderman Fisher, to enter Public Hearing on
the above request, vote carried.
Mr. Hicks explained that due to a parking issue that arose after prior approval
of the storm water plans reported at January’s meeting, the storm water control
facility had to be relocated to accommodate the increased number of parking
spaces resulting in the need for further review of the revised plan. WK Dickson
and the City’s staff have reviewed the storm water plans. Bonding for the
required improvements has been submitted and if the Board approves this
request, the plan will have to continue through the review process as a Planned
Building Group.
Attorney Jeffrey Losee of Roundtree, Losee, and Baldwin, representing Cape Fear
Trading Group gave the Board a brief introduction of the presentation on the
Conditional Use. He indicated that two primary issues have been the subject of
questions from City staff i.e. parking and drainage with emphasis on storm
water. Parking has been designed in accordance with UDO standards and they have
provided parking for existing uses and created additional public parking.
Drainage has had extensive review by WK Dickson on behalf of the City and
representatives of FEMA. All the areas have been addressed and a letter has
been issued to that effect from W. K. Dickson to the City.
(Mr. Lappala and Ms. Burkett was sworn in by the City Clerk before their
presentation)
Ms. Heather Burkett explained the illustration, showing in detail proposed
green space, decks, walkways; signage for the history of Southport, an area for
children i.e. gardens along Caswell Street and benches throughout the
streetscape. Mr. Terry Lee asked if parking would block access to his property
located on the corner. Mr. Hicks stated this project will go through the
Planned Building Group process and will not block access to property owned by
him.
Ms. Ann Marie Rickshaw asked about the type of parking.
Professional Engineer, Eric Lappala demonstrated to the Board with three-
dimensional drawings illustrating storm water, buildings and a water model
showing the impact that this development will have on the area. He stated
concerns were raised about the fill and whether it could be done, and in answer
to the question, they hired Dr. Eric Colson, a Coastal Engineer, who performed
the same coastal engineering studies and models that FEMA does to establish
base flood elevations, modifying the site to the fill condition. He concluded
that the base flood elevation that is required to be set, the first floor level
has to meet those elevations. This report was provided and reviewed by the
City’s Engineer, W.K. Dickson, and FEMA. They concurred that filling the site
would have no adverse impact and raise the base flood elevations that FEMA has
set. In summary, they reviewed the tidal flooding issue, designed the site
grading, and storm water controls to eliminate it as much as they can accept
for extreme rare events. He noted that there will be some water in the street
at the highest tide of record, but it is going to be only a few inches.
Alderman Powell noted a few inconsistencies on the pipe size and asked that
those to be corrected on the final plan. He noted for the benefit of the
public, that the pipe is going to be standing in salt water most of the time,
and questioned the type of pipe that will be used. He stated when Bay Street is
filled in and the tide comes in, there is not going to be as much area for the
water to spread and it will cause problems. Alderman Powell stated it was his
understanding that there is a Statute on the books where anything that is done
on the coast that will effect adjoining properties; owners must sign off. Mr.
Lappala noted on the drawing that the area near the Provision Company is
topographically higher than the area along Bay Street. They are not proposing
to do anything along the street within that area because they do not control
the property. Mr. Lappala stated everything would be constructed to City
standards.
Alderman Childs moved, seconded by Alderman Fisher to re-enter regular session.
Motion carried.
Attorney Isenberg stated in approving a conditional use permit, the Board of
Aldermen shall find as a specific finding of fact that the permit will comply
with the following four facts:
a)   That the use will not materially endanger the public health, safety, or
general welfare if located where proposed and developed according to the plan
as submitted and approved;
b)   That the use meets all required conditions and specifications;
c)   That the use will not adversely affect the use or any physical attribute
of adjoining or abutting property, or that the use is a public necessity; and
d)   That the location and character of the use, if developed according to the
plan as submitted and approved, will be in harmony with the area in which it is
to be located and in general conformity with the City of Southport Land Use
Plan.
Mr. Hicks stated the storm water issues have been addressed, the city is
picking up extra parking and the specific use of the building will have to go
before the Planning Board as a Planned Building Group. The Planning Board
recommended approval and W.K. Dickson sent a letter stating it meets the
requirements of the Unified Development Ordinance and recommended approval.
Alderman Powell stated it is his belief that the storm water design cannot
handle some of the problems in that area.
Alderman Fisher moved to approve the Conditional Use for Cape Fear Trading
stating that it meets all four criteria set forth in the UDO. Motion seconded
by Alderman Adams: Discussion: Alderman Fisher stated in 1945 there was water
standing in the street and 2010 there will be water, it is a low area and he
believes the developers have done the best job that can be accomplished in
improving the City in that specific locale. Mayor Pro Tem called for the vote:
4 ayes, Aldermen Fisher, Adams, Childs and Brown. 1 no vote: Alderman Powell.
Motion passed.
VII.
Public Hearing to consider revisions to the Southport Unified Development
Ordinance, Article 8 “Nonconforming Situations, Section 8-2, Nonconforming
Lots,” Paragraph (B)
Alderman Childs moved, seconded by Alderman Fisher to enter Public Hearing to
consider revisions to the Unified Development Ordinance. Motion carried.
Mr. Hicks stated this issue was directed to the Planning Board from the Board
of Aldermen requesting that they address non-conforming lots and an equitable
way for owners to use these lots. The Planning Board recommended the following
language change.
Article 8. Nonconforming Situations, Section 8-2: Nonconforming Lots, Paragraph
(B):
Strike the reference to (1) and replace with: (A)
Add the following text at the end of paragraph (B):
   “but must be instead combined said adjacent land with the nonconforming lot.
Should the nonconforming lots mentioned above have been legally subdivided and
recorded in Brunswick County prior to August of 1973, then this requirement of
combination shall not apply and those lots legally subdivided and recorded
prior to August of 1973 and never voluntarily combined through an action of the
owner shall each be considered a separate, buildable lot subject to other
requirements of this ordinance. Actions of the owner, which shall constitute a
voluntary combination, shall be, but not limited to, building a structure that
encroaches over lot lines, recording an instrument of combination, or recording
a plat that removes the separate lot lines thereby creating one lot.
Nonconforming lots created, subdivided or recorded after August of 1973 cannot
take advantage of this paragraph. In all cases where a property owner wishes to
take advantage of the exception within this paragraph for pre 1973 lots, the
owner shall present documentation to the building inspector or other designated
city staff which shows that no voluntary combination of the lots has occurred
and that the lots were subdivided and recorded prior to August, 1973.”
For explanation, Mr. Hicks explained the lots that most people were concerned
about were the Smith and Weeks section of town that was recorded in the early
1900’s. Southport adopted its first zoning ordinance in 1973 which required
those lots be combined if the owner owned lots next to each other. He explained
that an individual can now build a house on each of their lots, but this would
require a title opinion stating the lots were never voluntarily combined
through an instrument of recombination or other actions of the owner. Mr. Hicks
noted that the Planning Board had pros and cons concerning this change and
requested that he convey this to the Board. (See Below)
Potential Negatives
1.   Increased burden on water, electric, traffic, and sewer infrastructure and
how necessary improvements to these systems will be funded
2.   Increased storm water runoff to neighboring property owners and the
Southport drainage system with no regulatory controls in place at this time
3.   Driveway cuts that are close together
4.   Possible negative impacts to neighbors
5.   Fire safety concerns
Potential Positives
1.   Eliminates hardships on property owners wishing to build or sell existing
lots
2.   Helps build community interaction and strengthens neighborhood bonds
3.   An increase in the supply of lots could reduce acquisition cost and
provide more affordable housing as stated in the Comprehensive Plan
4.   Could lead to preservation of the character of the existing neighborhoods
5.   Clears out overgrown lots where loitering occurs
6.   Increases the tax base through an increase in housing stock
7.   Makes neighborhoods distinguishable as stated in the Comprehensive Plan
Mr. Ed Boguskie of 502 W. Brown Street asked the Board rather than change the
Ordinance, as provided in Section 8-2A of the UDO, each individual case can
come before the Board of Adjustments and then no precedent will be established.
Mr. Cecil Frank, 503 N. Atlantic asked if it was legal to buy a house that is
constructed on three lots, take the house down and then build three buildings.
Mr. Hicks stated at present, an individual can build on a non-conforming lot if
set backs are met. If a person own three lots, they have to combine them and
build one structure. Mr. Frank stated that Mr. Thorsen’s house was taken down,
and three are being built. Mr. Hicks acknowledged some mistakes were made and
the City is trying to correct them.
Ms. Gwen Midyette, 318 Willis Drive explained that the property in question had
three tax parcel numbers that made the property sub-dividable.
Mr. Phil Joyner, 812 North Caswell Avenue asked if the Board was telling the
citizens what they could do with their property whether it is 33 or 66-foot
lots because he owns several pieces of property on Caswell Avenue. He asked if
the Board was changing the ordinance because an individual was unhappy, and why
the sudden change.
Attorney Isenberg stated the change would make it easier for an individual to
use their thirty-three (33) foot lots. The ordinance currently provides 33 ft
lots to be combined in order to build. The change will provide for an owner to
build on each lot if they have never been combined, in actuality making it
easier to use their property.
Mr. Hicks stated there are approximately 150 thirty-three (33) foot lots in the
City according to County tax data. Mr. Yost asked if the City had
infrastructure in place to handle the construction and growth. Mayor Pro Tem
explained this is one of the negatives cited by the Planning Board and will be
looked into by the City.
Mr. Dale McPherson, 108 South Rhett Street for clarification stated that in
1976 the County for the convenience of tax billing combined properties.
No other comments, Alderman Childs motioned to re-enter regular session,
seconded by Alderman Fisher, vote carried.
Alderman Childs moved to approve the revisions to the Unified Development
Ordinance, Article 8, Non-Conforming Situations, and Section 8-2, seconded by
Alderman Powell. Discussion: Alderman Fisher stated he has reservations about
the change because it does not only effect the Smith and Weeks Subdivision
because most of the property in Southport was developed as 33.3-foot lots. He
explained that he has four 33.3 lots, one on each side of his house, even
though the ordinance states you must have 10,000 square feet to build,
according to this change he could build a house on each lot. He stated that he
want people to use their land but the City’s sewer program is based on usage
per gallon and the City has committed itself to a $13 million sewer program, $2
million upgrade for electricity, and these things should be considered. After
further discussion, by the Board. Mayor Pro Tem Brown called for the vote. 4
ayes, Aldermen Childs, Powell, Adams and Brown. 1 no, Alderman Fisher. Motion
passed
Article 8. Nonconforming Situations, Section 8-2: Nonconforming Lots, Paragraph
(B):
Strike the reference to (1) and replace with: (A)
Add the following text at the end of paragraph (B):
   “but must be instead combined said adjacent land with the nonconforming lot.
Should the nonconforming lots mentioned above have been legally subdivided and
recorded in Brunswick County prior to August of 1973, then this requirement of
combination shall not apply and those lots legally subdivided and recorded
prior to August of 1973 and never voluntarily combined through an action of the
owner shall each be considered a separate, buildable lot subject to other
requirements of this ordinance. Actions of the owner, which shall constitute a
voluntary combination, shall be, but not limited to, building a structure that
encroaches over lot lines, recording an instrument of combination, or recording
a plat that removes the separate lot lines thereby creating one lot.
Nonconforming lots created, subdivided or recorded after August of 1973 cannot
take advantage of this paragraph. In all cases where a property owner wishes to
take advantage of the exception within this paragraph for pre 1973 lots, the
owner shall present documentation to the building inspector or other designated
city staff which shows that no voluntary combination of the lots has occurred
and that the lots were subdivided and recorded prior to August, 1973.”
VIII.
Public Hearing to Adopt a Master Recreation Plan
Alderman Childs moved to enter Public Hearing to receive public comments on the
Master Recreation Plan, seconded by Mayor Pro Tem Brown, vote carried.
Mr. Hicks stated this Master Plan meets the requirements of the City.
Alderman Childs moved to re-enter regular session, seconded by Mayor Pro Tem
Brown. Vote carried.
Alderman Fisher moved to approve the Master Recreation Plan for the City of
Southport, seconded by Alderman Childs. Discussion: Alderman Fisher referenced
page 33, Shoreline Water Access Plan and asked that this be addressed. Mr.
Hicks communicated that staff talked with CAMA officials and there are no
monies available this year for grants. Mayor Holden submitted a letter on
behalf of the City asking for notification if funds become available. Mr. Hicks
stated the cost to update the Plan is approximately $10-$15,000. The vote of
approval was unanimous for adoption of the Plan. (Copy of Plan located in the
offices of the City Manager, City Planner, Parks and Recreation Director)
IX.
Southport Marina Renovation Project – Mark Johnson of Sound Marine
Marina representatives asked that this item be tabled until the March meeting.
X.
Mr. John Monaghan, Community Relations Manager of Piedmont Natural Gas Company
– Introduction of Company and discussion of a possible franchise arrangement
with the City of Southport
Mr. John Monaghan, Regional Communications Manager for Eastern North Carolina
introduced Rodney Myers, Regional Executive and Dennis Ergent, Manager of the
Wilmington Operations Center. Mr. Monaghan in presentation introduced Piedmont
Natural Gas, its history, benefits to the City and its citizens, and the
request for a franchise. He stated granting a franchise would allow the company
to run its lines in public rights of way within the City welcome them to the
community and stated that the price for terms of service is regulated by the
North Carolina Utilities Commission and i.e. safety standards. Benefits to the
City would be to receive one-half of piped natural gas excise tax revenues on
utility sales, property tax on facilities, new energy choice for residents and
businesses, and environmentally friendly energy source. Mr. Monaghan stated
they would like to proceed with the formal process of the franchise, and then
the company can advise residents whether they can serve them.
Mayor Pro Tem Brown thanked Mr. Monaghan for the presentation and advised him
that the Board would consider his request and asked that he contact the City
Manager. Mr. Monaghan stated the City Manager was provided a draft franchise
document.
Alderman Fisher referenced Section 2.05 “The company shall not be obligated to
the City or any of its departments or agencies for any tax, license fee, other
fee, or any other payment whatsoever, relating to the rights granted herein
this franchise other than that which is levied by state law.” Monaghan
explained this provision does not mean that if the Board has statutory
authority that it cannot levy fees and taxes provided in the franchise or in
the NCGS.
XI.
Proposed changes to Article III of the City Code of Ordinances – Rescue Squad
City Attorney Isenberg presented recommended changes to the Rescue Squad
Ordinance and outlined it to the Board.
Alderman Fisher moved, seconded by Alderman Powell to approve the amendment to
the Rescue Squad Ordinance. Vote carried.
PROPOSED EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Secs. 6-36-6-40. Reserved.
ARTICLE III. RESCUE SQUAD
Sec. 6-41. Organization
This organization shall be known as the Southport Rescue Squad, and the purpose
of this squad shall be to operate and serve as a volunteer rescue squad in all
ways, means and methods, including but not limited to, training and furnishing
of first aid, protection of lives and properties, search and rescue operations
and the providing of ambulance service to the Southport area on a non-profit
basis.
Sec. 6-42 Officers.
The officers of the rescue squad shall consist of a chief, assistant chief and
other officers as shall be called for in the bylaws of the organization. The
officers shall be elected by the members of squad according to the bylaws of
said squad, and shall serve a term of one (1) year. The results of the election
of officers shall be reported to the board of aldermen for the city at their
regular December meeting of each year. Officers of the Rescue Squad are subject
to the control and supervision of the Board of Aldermen and may be removed from
office at any time by the Board of Aldermen at its discretion.
Sec. 6-43 Bylaws.
The members of the Rescue Squad shall adopt bylaws for the operation of the
squad. The bylaws shall be submitted to the Board of Aldermen for approval and
shall not be effective until approved by the Board of Aldermen. In the event
that the bylaws conflict with state law or local law, the terms of the state or
local law shall govern and prevail.
Sec. 6-44 Duties of the Chief.
The chief shall have general control over all squad apparatus, personnel and
equipment.
The chief shall, at least once a month, arrange for suitable drills or
instruction in the operation and handling of equipment, first aid, rescue work,
and all other matters generally considered to be essential to proper rescue
work and providing for the safety of life. The chief is to see that complete
records are kept of all rescue calls and ambulance calls, condition and
inventory of all vehicles and equipment, personnel and other information about
the work of the squad. The Chief is responsible for the formulation of the
department’s annual operating budget and is responsible for maintaining such
budget.
Sec. 6-45 Assistant Chief.
In the absence of the Chief of the Rescue Squad from the city, or in the event
of his/her being prevented from attending to his/her duties by sickness or
otherwise, the assistant chief shall perform all duties required of the chief,
and shall be clothed with the same authority as the chief.
Sec. 6-46 Duties of other officers.
Other officers of the squad shall assume those duties as designated by the
chief of the squad and they shall perform those duties to the best of their
ability and in a manner upholding their office.
Sec. 6-47 Membership.
The total membership of the squad shall be designated in the bylaws of the
squad. At the time of becoming an active member of the squad, the person must
be at least eighteen (18) years of age and be a resident of the Southport area.
A member must possess a sound mind and body, be a good citizen, and be of good
moral character. A prospective member shall obtain an application form from the
department, and shall have a valid driver’s license. He/she may also be
required to take a physical examination that will be paid for by the
department.
Sec. 6-48 Meetings.
Meetings of the squad shall be held on a regular basis, at least once per
month. Attendance requirements for the squad shall be established in the bylaws
to assure that squad members remain aware of proceedings of the squad and
periodically update their training.
Sec. 6-49 Operations.
Provisions for the operation of the squad shall be established through the
bylaws of the squad and day-to-day operation shall be controlled by a written
set of rules and regulations, which shall be available to all squad members.
The bylaws, rules, and regulations of the squad shall be subject to review of
the Board of Aldermen of the city.  
Attorney Isenberg told the Board he and the City Manager discovered a few
discrepancies in the Fire Department’s Ordinance and will submit those changes
later.
XII.
Planning Board Appointments
Mayor Pro Tem Brown referred this item to the Planning Board’s Committee to
schedule interviews with the applicants. Planning Board Committee: Aldermen
Brown, Powell, Childs, Barbara Clewis and Chad Hicks.
XIII.
Board of Adjustment Appointments
Mayor Pro Tem announced that there is a vacancy on the Board of Adjustments due
to the death of Peter Wyckoff. Alderman Powell moved to appoint Larry Coble to
complete the unexpired term (permanent in town position) and to advertise for
the alternate position. Vote carried.
XIV.
Forestry Committee Appointment
Mayor Pro Tem Brown stated the Board received one application for the Forestry
Committee. Alderman Fisher moved to appoint Mr. William Leuschner, seconded by
Alderman Powell, vote carried.
XV.
Resolution in support of USS N.C. Submarine Commissioning in Wilmington,
The Board acknowledged a request from Mayor Saffo of Wilmington asking for
support by adopting a resolution endorsing the efforts of the City of
Wilmington to have the official commissioning of the USS North Carolina
Submarine in Wilmington in 2008.
Alderman Powell moved to adopt the following resolution, seconded by Alderman
Childs, vote of approval unanimous.
RESOLUTION ENDORSING EFFORTS TO HAVE THE OFFICIAL COMMISSIONING OF THE USS
NORTH CAROLINA SUBMARINE IN THE CITY OF WILMINGTON IN 2008
WHEREAS, the USS North Carolina (SSN-777) is a Virginia class submarine that
will be the fifth to be named for the 12th State, North Carolina; and
WHEREAS, this ship is presently under construction at Northrop Grumman in
Newport News, Virginia, with construction to be completed in 2007; and
WHEREAS, the citizens of the State of North Carolina are very proud of its deep
and rich heritage in support of a strong military and national defense, and
proud of its service provided by the citizens of North Carolina in support of
the defense of our Country; and
WHEREAS, it would be desirable and appropriate that the commissioning of the
newest submarine carrying the name of the great State of North Carolina be held
in the Port City, Wilmington, whose significant historical and military stature
is unsurpassed.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED:
THAT, the City of Southport Board of Aldermen officially endorses efforts to
have the commissioning of the Virginia Class Submarine, the USS North Carolina,
in the Port City of Wilmington, North Carolina in 2008.
DULY RESOLVED THIS THE 8th DAY OF FEBRUARY, 2008.
/s/ James C. Brown
Mayor Pro Tempore’
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
XVI.
Final Plat – Yacht Basin Project, Phase I
Mr. Hicks stated the preliminary plat was approved in January for four single-
family residential homes and storm water controls for those lots are tied into
the overall storm water management plan for the entire project. Due to a
parking issue, after prior approval of storm water plans, the storm water
control facility had to be relocated to accommodate the increased number of
parking spaces, resulting in the need for further review of the revised plan.
He stated the final plat could be approved subject to a bonding amount of
$362,564, which has been reviewed by the Mr. Grant. Public Works Director and
will be submitted to the City Manager within two days. Alderman Fisher moved to
approve the final plat for the Yacht Basin Project, Phase I subject to the
bond, seconded by Mayor Pro Tem Brown. The vote of approval was 4 ayes,
Aldermen Fisher, Adams, Childs and Mayor Pro Tem Brown. 1 no, Alderman Powell.
Motion passed.
XVII.
Tax Releases
Bill/Parcel # Name & Account Date Amount   Value Released Reason for
              #                   Released                Release
2631          George Edwards 2006 105.75   48,400         Boat moved to
                                                          Wilmington
2679          Richard        2006 5.43     2,010          Jet ski moved to
              Hardesty                                    placeStateFlorida
2691          Michael        2006 13.64    5,050          Boat sold
              Hillard
                                                          Boat at South
                                                          Harbor Marina Bie
2776          Mark Salyer    2006 41.31    15,300         Harbor Marina
                                                          Billed by Oak
                                                          Island
2806          Fred A Stout   2006 7.28     2,695          Boat kept in
                                                          Pennsylvania
                                                          Brunswick County
2809          John Styers    2006 23.69    8,774          Lowered Value of
                                                          Boat
2817          Thomas Walter  2006 64.13    23,750         Billed Twice
2302          Time Warner    2006 179.28   66,400         Depreciation
              Entertainment                               Schedule Adj.
2719          Richard Lee    2006 359.24   133,053        Boat Sold
2784          George Shaller 2006 3.16     1,170          Boat Sold Sept.
                                                          2005
2758          Royce Potter   2006 128.25   47,500         Billed Twice
Total                             931.16
 
XVIII.
Budget Amendments
Alderman Powell moved to approve budget amendments #13-21, seconded by Alderman
Fisher, vote carried.
Budget Amendment #13
Fiscal Year 2006-2007
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session February 8, 2007 that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for revenues appropriated from fund balance for
expenditures for new bulkhead at City Pier and expenditures for Fort Johnston
repairs & furnishings
General Fund
                                    Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section I
A.   Revenues Anticipated
      Fund Balance Appropriate83,500           3,909,428.32
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
      Buildings & Grounds
         R/M Buildings & Fa33,500es
      Parks & Recreation
         Fort Johnston     50,000
                                                     3,909,428.32
 
ADOPTED this the 8th of February, 2007.
/s/ Mayor Pro Tem, James Brown
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, CMC
Clerk to the Board of Aldermen
Budget Amendment #14
Fiscal Year 2006-2007
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session February 8th, 2007 that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for revenues received from insurance recovery for repair &
maintenance to Code Enforcement Vehicle.
General Fund
                               Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section I
A.   Revenues Anticipated
      Insurance Recovery 2328.89          3,911,757.21
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
      Code Enforcement Vehicle
         R/M Vehicle  2328.89          3,911,757.21
 
ADOPTED this the 8thh day of February, 2007
/s/ Mayor Pro Tem, James Brown
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
Budget Amendment #15
Fiscal Year 2006-2007
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session February 8th, 2007 that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for revenues awarded from grant proceeds from FEMA Fire
Grant.
General Fund
                                     Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section I
C.   Revenues Anticipated
      FEMA Fire Grant for Fire 42,750           3,954,507.21
D.   Appropriated Expenditures
      Fire Department
         Fema Grant Supplies42,750           3,954,507.21
 
ADOPTED this the 8thh day of February, 2007
/s/ Mayor Pro Tem, James Brown
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
Budget Amendment #16
Fiscal Year 2006-2007
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session February 8th, 2007 that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for revenues awarded from grant proceeds from Department
of Crime Control and Public Safety for Police Department for of purchase of
Tasers.
General Fund
                                  Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section 1
   A.   Revenues Anticipated
      Misc. Revenue/Police  6,793.80         $3,961,301.01
   B.   Appropriated Expenditures
      Police Department
         Other Equipment 6,793.80         3,961,301.01
 
ADOPTED this the 8th day of February, 2007.
/s/ Mayor Pro Tem, James C. Brown
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
City Clerk
Budget Amendment #17
Fiscal Year 2006-2007
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session February 8th, 2007 that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for revenues proceeds for financing of vehicle for the
Street Department.
General Fund
                               Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section I
E.   Revenues Anticipated
      Proceeds for Financ33,100           3,994,401.01
F.   Appropriated Expenditures
      Street Department
         Capital Vehic33,100           3,994,401.01
 
ADOPTED this the 8thh day of February, 2007
/s/ Mayor Pro Tem, James Brown
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
Budget Amendment #18
Fiscal Year 2006-2007
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session February 8th, 2007 that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for revenue proceeds from financing of vehicles for Water/
Sewer Department.
 
Water/Sewer Fund
                               Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section V
G.   Revenues Anticipated
      Proceeds for Financ171,436.70       3,261,983.70
H.   Appropriated Expenditures
      Capital /Vehicle   171,436.70       3,261,983.70
 
ADOPTED this the 8thh day of February, 2007
/s/ Mayor Pro Tem, James Brown
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
Budget Amendment #19
Fiscal Year 2006-2007
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session February 8th, 2007 that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for revenues from Fund Balance Appropriations, Rescue
collection fees and revenues received from Brunswick County for Rescue for
Rescue expenditures and other department expenditures within the General Fund
for mid-year adjustments
General Fund
                                  Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section I
I.   Revenues Anticipated
      Fund Balance          55,610           4,090,011.01
   Rescue Collection Fees      40,000
      Brunswick County for R5,000
J.   Appropriated Expenditures
      Administration        0.00
      Building & Grds       29,180
      Police Dept.          0.00
      Fire Dept.            0.00
      Code Enforcement      0.00
      Rescue Dept.          40,000
      Cemeteries            0.00
      Parks & Rec           26,430
      Tourism               0.00             4,090,011.01
 
ADOPTED this the 8thh day of February, 2007
/s/ Mayor Pro Tem, James Brown
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
Budget Amendment #20
Fiscal Year 2006-2007
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session February 8th, 2007 that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for revenues from Underground Fees collected by Developer
and Home Owners and mid-year adjustments within the Electric Fund.
 
Electric Fund
                               Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section IV
K.   Revenues Anticipated
   Underground Service      250,000          7,047,847
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
   Customer Development     250,000          7,047,847
 
ADOPTED this the 8thh day of February, 2007
/s/ Mayor Pro Tem, James Brown
Attest
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
City Clerk
Budget Amendment #21
Fiscal Year 2006-2007
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session February 8th, 2007 that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for mid-year adjustments within the Water/Sewer Fund.
There will be no change in the Budget.
 
Water/Sewer Fund
                               Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section V
B.   Appropriated Expenditur0.00             3,090,547
 
ADOPTED this the 8thh day of February, 2007
/s/ Mayor Pro Tem, James Brown
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
City Clerk
XIX.
Other Business
No other business.
XX.
Other Comments
Alderman Childs asked about the vacancy on the Recreation Board due to the
death of Mickey Hart. Mr. Hicks will check on this with Parks and Recreation
Director.
Alderman Fisher asked that the Board review the new law for fishing licenses
because it does not do anything to help senior citizens, no licenses required
for fishing ponds and the law does not allow people to fish off their private
piers without a license. He asked the Board to give him feedback and he may
draft a resolution for the March meeting to send to the legislators.
XXI.
Adjournment
No further business, meeting adjourned upon motion of Alderman Childs, seconded
by Alderman Adams, vote carried.
________________________________
James C. Brown, Mayor Pro Tem
__________________________
Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
MARCH 8, 2007
BOARD RETREAT
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN BOARD RETREAT
MARCH 8, 2007     8:00 A.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, N. C.
 
PRESENT:         Norman R. Holden, Mayor
            Aldermen Nelson Adams, Meezie Childs, Stuart Callari, Paul Fisher,
            Jim Powell and Jim Brown
ABSENT:         None
STAFF:         Rob Gandy, City Manager
            Regina Alexander, Clerk
8:15-9:00 a.m. – Presentation by Brunswick Electric Membership Corporation.
Present were Chip Levitt, CEO Brunswick Electric, Don Hughes, Operations
Supervisor, Nicky Nance, Southport Construction Supervisor, Rob Michel, BEMC
Accountant, Deborah Fish and Kim Latham, Utility Resources.
Presentation and update on work plan for the City by Don Hughes, Operations
Supervisor. He reported completion of Smithville Woods Phase I sectionalizing
which will limit the amount of area that can be out any certain period. Goals
for 2007 is to complete Indigo, fix NESC violations, improve power factor
penalty, conversion of overhead system and propose new substation.
9:00 a.m. – 9:230 a.m. Carter Hubard, W.K. Dickson
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING
MARCH 8, 2007     7:30 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, N. C.
 
PRESENT:          Norman R. Holden, Mayor
            Aldermen Nelson Adams, Meezie Childs, Stuart Callari, Paul Fisher,
            Jim Powell and Jim Brown
ABSENT:         None
STAFF:         Regina W. Alexander, City Clerk
            Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
            Chad Hicks, City Planner
ABSENT:         Rob Gandy, City Manager
I.
Call To Order – 7:30 p.m.
Mayor Holden called the meeting to order at 7:40 p.m.
II.
Invocation
Alderman Brown delivered the invocation.
III.
Approval of Minutes
Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Fisher to approve the minutes from
the special meeting held on January 16 and regular meeting minutes held
February 8, vote carried.
IV.
Citizen Matters (Non-Agenda Items)
Ms. Carolyn Pryor, Director of Coastal Water Watch, asked the Board to adopt a
proclamation at the April meeting recognizing “earth day” on April 22. She
stated that a community wide cleanup will be held on April 21 and other
activities to help conserve and preserve the environment. Ms. Pryor also
thanked the Board for its position on the helipad by restricting it to
government and emergency use only, which will also benefit the environment.
V.
Public Hearing on request by Cottage Point, LLC and Southport Marina, LLC to
rezone land north of West Street Extension from R-10 (Residential) and MF
(Multi-Family) to PUD (Planned Unit Development)
Alderman Childs moved to enter Public Hearing on the above rezoning request,
seconded by Alderman Callari, vote carried.
Mr. Hicks, City Planner stated the petitioner has requested 20.2 acres of land
between the West Street Extension, Owen Street and Cottage Point Way be rezoned
from R-10 and MF to PUD. If approved as a PUD, the plan will be presented back
to the Planning Board and City Council for a conditional use and approval of
the specific site plan. The Planning Board believes this is a good plan because
when completed, it will give interconnectivity from West Street. No further
comments, motion by Alderman Childs, seconded by Alderman Callari to re-enter
regular session, motion carried.
Alderman Fisher moved to approve the rezoning request, seconded by Alderman
Callari, vote carried.
VI.
Review and approval of contract between the City of Southport and Garner &
Brown for architectural services for the new Fire Station
Alderman Fisher explained that the City negotiated with Dosher Hospital
representatives and traded property across from the hospital for city property
next to public works. He stated the Design Committee consisted of Chief Cumbee,
Robert Howard, Al Trunnel, Aldermen Adams and Fisher in which they met to
discuss plans for a new station. Motion made by Alderman Fisher to approve the
Agreement with Garner and Brown Architects PA to design the new fire station,
and authorized the City Manager to execute same. Motion seconded by Alderman
Brown, vote unanimous. (Copy of contract on file in the office of the City
Clerk)
Alderman Fisher thanked Mr. Howard Loughlin for donating a thirty-three foot
lot to the city (located on Lord Street) adjacent to the lot the city recently
acquired for the fire station. He stated that the deed is in hand and recorded.
VII.
Downtown Southport Inc.
Mr. Randy Jones, Acting Chairperson for Downtown Southport, Inc. introduced
Peggy McDonald, newly hired Executive Director for DSI. Ms. McDonald expressed
pleasure at having been hired to work with DSI and explained her background in
working with non-profit organizations.
VIII.
New Fire Pumper Truck – Bids
The following bids were received for financing of a pumper truck for the fire
department.
Cost         Rate      Annual Payment      Total
BB&T (5 yr)      3.86%      $58,183.67         $290,918.35
RBC Centura (5 yr)   3.68%       57,989.61         289,948.05*
Security Savings   4.07%      (no amortization chart was provided)
Ms. Patty Miller, Finance Director recommended financing be approved through
RBC Centura. Alderman Callari moved to award the bid to RBC Centura, seconded
by Alderman Powell, vote carried.
IX.
Planning Board Appointments
Alderman Brown stated that the Committee met to interview applicants for the
Planning Board and expressed appreciation to those persons who applied. He
moved to approve the recommendations from the Committee: reappoint Dale
McPherson to a three-year term, appoint Bill Duke to full member status to fill
the unexpired term of Donnie Potter, and appoint Jason Bigelow to complete the
unexpired term of Mr. Bill Duke as an alternate, motion seconded by Alderman
Powell, vote carried.
X.
Resolution –Mosquito Control
Alderman Childs moved to approve the following resolution giving the City
Manager the authority to execute documents associated with the State Mosquito
Control program, seconded by Alderman Callari, vote unanimous.
Resolution to be Adopted by the Board of Aldermen Designating Official to sign
papers and to otherwise represent the Board in connections with Mosquito
Control
Upon motion of Alderman Mary Childs, seconded by Alderman Stuart Callari, it is
hereby ordered that Rob Gandy, City Manager, as agent for the City of
Southport, is hereby authorized and empowered to sign and execute all papers
and documents necessary in connection with the request made to the Division of
Environmental Health, North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural
Resources, for aid in control of mosquitoes. He is further authorized and
required to carry out all agreements stipulated in the project application
submitted by us to the Division of Environmental Health, North “Carolina
Department of Environment and Natural Resources, and to perform other acts that
are proper and necessary in connection with the operation of this project. Acts
of said person on behalf of said City of Southport are in all respects
validated, approved and confirmed.
The undersigned Regina Alexander, Clerk to the Board of Aldermen, hereby
certifies that the foregoing is a true copy of the resolution of the City of
Southport at a meeting held on the 8th day of March 2007.
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, City Clerk
XI.
Proclamation – Arbor Day
Alderman Childs moved to adopt the following proclamation proclaiming March 16,
2007 as “Arbor Day” in the City of Southport, seconded by Alderman Callari, the
vote was unanimous.
ARBOR DAY PROCLAMATION
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/IMAGES/0-0-0-46.jpg]
WHEREAS, in 1972, J. Sterling Morton proposed to the Nebraska Board of Agriculture that a special day be
set aside for the planting of trees, and
WHEREAS, this holiday called Arbor Day , was first observed with the planting of more than a million trees
in Nebraska, and
WHEREAS, Arbor Day is now observed throughout the nation and the world, and
WHEREAS, trees can reduce the erosion of our precious topsoil by wind and water, cut heating and cooling
costs, moderate the temperature, clean the air, produce life-giving oxygen, and provide habitat for
wildlife, and
WHEREAS, trees are a renewable resource giving us paper, wood for our homes, fuel for our fires, and
beautify our community, and
WHEREAS, trees in our city increase property values, enhance the economic vitality of business areas, and
beautify our community, and
WHEREAS, trees wherever they are planted are a source of joy and spiritual renewal.
NOW, THEREFORE,  I Norman R. Holden, Mayor of the City of Southport, N.C. do hereby proclaim March 16, 2007
as ARBOR DAY in the City and urge all citizens to celebrate and support efforts to protect our trees and
woodlands, and
FURTHER, I urge all citizens to plant trees to gladden the heart and promote the well-being of this and
future generations.
DATED, this 8th day of March, 2007.
S/Norman R. Holden, Mayor
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/IMAGES/0-0-0-
48.jpg]                                       [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/IMAGES/0-0-0-50.jpg]
 
Mayor Holden announced that the Forestry Committee will plant a live oak at
Southport Elementary School on March 16, 11:00 a.m. and invited the public.
XII.
2007 Elder Awareness Resolution
Alderman Callari moved to adopt the following resolution, seconded by Alderman
Childs, the vote was unanimous.
2007 ELDER ABUSE AWARENESS RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, Elder Abuse is the broad term used to identify mistreatment of elder
and disabled adults, and abuse and neglect of elderly and disabled adults is
one of most under-recognized and under reported social problems in this
country; and
WHEREAS, the magnitude of the problem is likely to increase for several
reasons, especially with the anticipated rise in the number of elderly
population; and
WHEREAS, mistreatment can take many forms: physical abuse, emotional abuse,
sexual abuse, neglect by caretaker, self-neglect and exploitation, financial
exploitation; and
WHEREAS, between 500,000-5 million people suffer elder abuse every year; and
WHEREAS, it is estimated that approximately only one out of every 14 cases of
elder abuse is reported; and
WHEREAS, elder abuse is preventable.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the City of Southport recognizes the month of
June as Elder Abuse Awareness month and encourages all residents and other
jurisdictions to become more aware of this problem and join in the prevention
of Elder Abuse.
DULY ADOPTED THIS THE 8TH DAY OF MARCH 2007.
/s/ Mayor Norman R. Holden
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, Clerk
XIII.
Resolution of Appreciation – Judy Studer
The Board presented a resolution in honor of Ms. Studer’s volunteer work
organizing Downtown Southport, Inc.
RESOLUTION OF RECOGNITION
WHEREAS, Ms. Judy Studer has rendered service to the Southport community which
deserves special recognition; and
WHEREAS, she has served as Volunteer Coordinator for the initial development of
Downtown Southport, Inc. sponsored by the City of Southport, Area Merchants,
Business interests and Service Providers spending countless hours to bring to
fruition the start of an organization that will enhance the vitality and spirit
of the Southport Community while providing a vehicle for thoughtful growth of
the downtown district; and
WHEREAS, her dedication and zeal in the work of this endeavor has won Ms.
Studer the respect and affection of her organization committee.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that, on behalf of all our citizens, the
Southport Board of Aldermen hereby tender this Resolution of Recognition to Ms.
Studer for her dedicated service to the future of the Southport Community.
DULY RESOLVED, THIS THE 8th DAY OF MARCH 2007.
/s/ Mayor Norman Holden
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
XIV.
Adoption of Order-Tax Lien Advertisement
The Board acknowledged a report from the Tax Collector pursuant to G.S. 105-369
(a) reporting the amount of unpaid taxes for 2006-07. Alderman Fisher moved to
direct the tax collector to advertise tax liens pursuant to G.S. 105-369,
seconded by Alderman Childs, vote carried.
XV.
Tax Release
Alderman Adams moved to approve a 2006 tax release per request of the tax
collector for Lewis B. Westcott (221MA022) in the amount of $253.99. Alderman
Callari seconded the motion. Vote carried.
XVI.
Other Business
Alderman Fisher reported that a Command Management Conference is planned with
Progress Energy on April 12 and he along with the City Manager and Public
Utilities Director will be attending and asked that the regular scheduled
meeting for April 12th be rescheduled to April 17th. Alderman Fisher moved,
seconded by Alderman Childs to change the regular scheduled Board meeting to
April 17 at 7: 30 p.m. Vote carried.
Alderman Fisher stated that on February 28, he along with Bob Grant attended
the North Carolina Electric Municipal Power Agency Commissioners meeting in
Wilson. They do not anticipate any rate change this year. In January 2007, the
Power Agency paid the annual payment (bonds to build the plant) of $118,470,000
which left the debt at $2,666,315,000 as of January. The average interest cost
on the debt is 5.635% and over 74% of the debt is the Harris Plant, 26% is the
other four (4) units. As of June 5, 2006 prior to this payment, the debt was 7%
of all state and local debt.
Mayor Holden reminded Board members of the annual board retreat scheduled 8:00
a.m., Saturday March 10 at the Garrison House.
XVII.
ADJOURNMENT
No further business, the meeting was adjourned upon motion of Alderman Childs,
seconded by Alderman Brown, vote carried.
__________________________
/s/Norman R. Holden, Mayor
________________________
/s/Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
APRIL 17, 2007
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
APRIL 17, 2007    7:30 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, N. C.
 
PRESENT:         Norman R. Holden, Mayor
            Aldermen Nelson Adams, Mary “Meezie” Childs, Paul Fisher
            Mary “Stuart” Callari, Jim Powell and Jim Brown
ABSENT:         None
STAFF:         Rob Gandy, City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander, City Clerk
            Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
I.
Call to Order – 7:30 p.m.
Mayor Holden called the meeting to order at 7:35 p.m.
II.
Invocation
Alderman Brown delivered the invocation.
III.
Approval of Minutes
Alderman Powell moved to approve the regular meeting minutes dated March 8,
2007, seconded by Alderman Callari, vote carried.
IV.
Citizen Matters (Non-Agenda)
Mayor Holden called for petitions from the floor, there were none.
V.
Public Hearing on the Unified Development Ordinance text change. The purpose of
the language change is to adjust sections of the UDO that were affected when
the Planned Unit Development land area requirements were reduced.
Mayor Holden called for a motion to enter Public Hearing on the above language
change to the Unified Development Ordinance. Alderman Callari moved to enter
Public Hearing, seconded by Alderman Childs, vote carried.
Mr. Chad Hicks stated language changes to the Unified Development Ordinance are
necessary to clean up sections of the UDO that still refers to old acreage
requirements in which the change will make residential cluster developments a
conditional use. He stated that Section 15-1: Residential Cluster Development
has always been handled as a conditional use, but it is not worded as such in
the UDO.
The second change is regarding the Planned Unit Development requirements for
land inside the city limits that was reduced to eight (8) acres. Some places in
the UDO still refer to the 25 acres inside and outside of the city limits,
Section 15-2: Residential Cluster Developments.
There were no comments from the public. Alderman Childs moved, seconded by
Alderman Callari to close the Public Hearing and to re-enter regular session,
vote carried.
Alderman Childs moved to approve the changes to the Unified Development
Ordinance as presented. Motion seconded by Alderman Callari, the vote was
unanimous.
ARTICLE 15. RESIDENTIAL CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT
Section 15-1: Purpose and Intent; Definition
For the purposes of this section, a residential cluster development is defined
as:
ADD THE FOLLOWING:
(D)   A conditional use to be processed in accordance with Article 12 of this
Unified Development Ordinance.
Section 15-2: Area; Permitted District, Exemption; Street Access; Open Space
(s);
Density; Dimensional Standards
Paragraph 1, first sentence amended as follows:
Residential cluster developments shall not contain less than ten (10) net
acres,
however, if a residential cluster is proposed in an approved PUD, a cluster
development may be utilized on any acreage provided it is approved by the Board
of Aldermen. 
ARTICLE 2. BASIC DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS
Section 2-2: Definitions of Basic Terms
Revision of Definition (222) as follows:
(222)   Planned Unit Development (PUD). A development constructed on a tract of
at least 8 acres of net buildable area under single ownership or approved
partnership in the city limits of Southport or at least 25 acres of net
buildable area under single ownership or an approved partnership in the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the City of Southport, planned and developed
as an integral unit, and consisting of a combination of residential and
nonresidential uses on land within a PUD district in accordance with Article
14.
VI.
Airport Commission
Mr. Owen Garner, member of the Brunswick County Airport Commission told the
Board that Congress last year stopped funding special projects, which included
the airport expansion, and that this places the airport in a dilemma. Their
plans are completed to extend the runway, permits are in hand, and land
purchases complete. The Commission cannot let a contract without funds. The
state has made a formal request to the County Commissioners to advance some
funds to get the project back on track.
Mr. Howie Franklin, Airport Manager, stated that the Aeronautical Council for
the State of North Carolina met in Brunswick County for the second consecutive
year. He stated one of their priorities is the Brunswick County Airport, and
the entire state believes that Brunswick County Airport is poised to make an
economic impact on the local economy. The last economic impact study presented
to the Board showed that the airport is bringing in $26 million a year. He
explained that the Aeronautical Council is appointed by the Governor to develop
aviation and airports across the state. The Council believes that if the
Brunswick County Airport expands its runway to 5,500 feet, it will quadruple
the number of dollars into the economy. He stated people in Raleigh are
lobbying for transportation monies, and the Department of Aviation has stated
if transportation monies were received, then they would fund the remainder.
Therefore, many people are working towards this end, including the county. If
they do not receive funding, the Airport will stay as is for the next 8 to 12
years. Mr. Franklin stated that $6.3 million is needed; $2.3 million will build
the road, and $4.2 million to install the runway. The entire project will cost
over $10 million. If the runway is constructed, they believe the rest will take
care of itself. Mr. Garner explained that the federal funds derives from the
aviation trust fund which is a result of ticket taxes and aviation fuel tax,
etc. and can only be used for aviation. Mr. Garner asked the Board if they
believe in this project, to put in a good word to the County Commissioners.
Mayor stated that he would have the City Manager contact Mr. Garner.
VII.
Stevens Park – Phase I: Preliminary and Final Plat Review
Mr. Chad Hicks stated Steven’s Park Phase I preliminary and final Plat reviews
have been completed. The City received the storm water comments from W. K.
Dickson, City Engineers and everything is in order. If the preliminary plat is
approved, the developer is also asking for final plat approval. The bond amount
has been set and reviewed by City Engineers. The bond is not in place, but Mr.
Hyson stated that it would be, if the final plat is approved.
Mr. Hicks explained in response to a question from Mayor Holden, that Stevens
Park is the name of the overall development, but on the plat that was dedicated
to the City; it is called the Stevens Park Municipal Recreational Property. Mr.
Hicks stated the municipal parkland has been separated from the development and
the land donated to the City has been deeded and recorded. Alderman Fisher
asked if the construction of the ball fields is in this phase. Attorney
Roundtree replied yes, and that they do not intend to develop the residential
area without completing the ballparks in a manner that the city will be proud.
Alderman Powell asked about Stevens Park Boulevard and if the developer has any
intention to let the boulevard go through and exit near Robert Ruark. He
explained the initial drawings that were presented, they discussed another
access and it is not showing on the plans that he reviewed. Mr. Hicks explained
that it would be shown on Phase II.
In response to Alderman Adams question concerning bonds being in place, Mr.
Hicks replied that City Engineer, W. K. Dickson reviewed the amount of $4.5
million, which was deemed sufficient. He stated the preliminary plat may be
approved without the bond being in place, and if the final plat is approved,
the City will not sign off until the bond is received. (City Manager Gandy
noted the construction bond guarantees that the city will have the resources it
needs in place should something happen and the surety bond will be issued to
the developer who will actually install the utilities and guaranteed for one
year).
Alderman Fisher asked about the date for construction of the ball fields.
Attorney Roundtree stated during discussion with members of the LLC, they
intend to have the fields ready by early 2008.
Alderman Powell moved to approve the preliminary plat for Stevens Park, Phase
I, seconded by Alderman Callari. The vote was unanimous. Passed
Alderman Powell moved to approve the final plat for Stevens Park, Phase I
contingent upon bond requirements being in place, seconded by Alderman Brown.
Discussion: Alderman Fisher asked if the approval could be contingent upon the
ball fields being completed by 2008. Attorney Isenberg stated that the City has
the assurance in writing, which stated April 2007, but in no event, no later
than August of 2007. The vote was unanimous for final plat approval. Passed
VIII.
Sketch Plan: Phase II - Ms. Heather Burkert
Ms. Burkert showed a power point presentation of the proposed development
showing the connectivity of roads, landscape, storm water plans using rain
gardens, schematic of houses, etc.
IX.
Dosher Hospital – Abandonment of Certain Right of Way – Fodale Avenue
City Attorney Isenberg stated the City was contacted by Dosher Hospital because
the property that they acquired in exchange with the city for parking, the
surveyor determined that part of the pavement of Fodale Avenue is outside of
the city’s right of way. Dosher has asked the city to consider closing a
portion of Fodale Avenue so the title can revert to them and they can add it to
the land acquired, which will give them the necessary footage needed to
finalize their construction plans. A map was shown depicting the right of way
including pavement.
City Manager Gandy stated if the Board wishes to pursue this, a Public Hearing
is required and the notice posted. City Attorney Isenberg stated that before
the Board votes; he wants the deed in hand conveying to the City the part of
the land that is outside of the city’s right of way, so the city will not lose
any rights of way. City Attorney Isenberg stated the Board may adopt the
resolution calling for the Public Hearing in June to consider the matter, but
no action on the order closing the road until the City secures the deed for the
other part.
Alderman Fisher moved to adopt the following resolution, seconded by Alderman
Childs, the vote carried.
RESOLUTION TO CLOSE STREET
THAT WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport proposes to
permanently close a small portion of the western end of Fodale Avenue at its
intersection with the eastern line of Howe Street, said portion being more
particularly described as follows:
Beginning at the point where the northern line of Fodale Avenue intersects the
eastern line of Howe Street and run thence South 70 degrees 06 minutes 48
seconds East 154.78 feet with the northern line of Fodale Avenue to an iron
stake; run thence South 30 degrees16 minutes 46 seconds East 46.88 feet to a
point in Fodale Avenue; run thence North 73 degrees 47 minutes 21 seconds West
156.57 feet to the eastern line of Howe Street; run thence with the eastern
line of Howe Street North 20 degrees 52 minutes 00 seconds West 52.89 feet to
the point of beginning, containing approximately 5628 square feet.
WHEREAS, prior to the closing of said street, it is necessary for the Board of
Aldermen to hear all interested persons on the question of whether or not the
closing would be detrimental to the public interest, or the property rights of
any individual;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport pursuant to G. S. 160A-299 as follows:
1.   That the City of Southport intends to permanently close that portion of
Fodale Avenue as described above.
2.   That a public hearing on said closing shall be held at 7:30 pm on June 14,
2007, at the Southport City Hall , 201 E. Moore Street, Southport, N. C.
3.   That a copy of this resolution shall be published once a week for four (4)
successive weeks prior to the hearing, a copy hereof shall be sent by
registered or certified mail to all owners of property adjoining the public
road as shown on the county tax records, and a notice of the closing and public
hearing shall be prominently posted in at least two (2) places along said
street.
This, the 12th day of April 2007.
CITY OF SOUTHPORT
BY:
Norman Holden
Mayor
ATTEST:
Regina W. Alexander
Clerk
X.
Planning Board – Terms of Expiration Dates
Mr. Chad Hicks, Planning Director, presented a recommendation from the Planning
Board asking to make all Planning Board terms consistent because some terms
expire in January and others in March. They requested that all members’ terms
expire in March of the year that their appointment ends. This action will not
alter the terms of office and they will remain staggered.
Alderman Childs moved to change the month that Planning Board appointments
expire to March, seconded by Alderman Brown. Discussion: City Manager Gandy
asked if the Unified Development Ordinance should be modified to reflect this
change, because Planning Board terms are set forth in the ordinance. Attorney
Isenberg stated this could wait until other language changes are made to the
UDO. No further discussion, motion carried.
XI.
Communities in School
Mr. Jim McCallum, board member for Communities in School gave an overview of
their mission and programs. He reported that they raise and spend approximately
$2 million a year to keep children in school, to date they have expended over
40,000 volunteer hours, 880 children served in after school programs, 3,200
clients served through family resource centers, 400 students through teen
court, and have awarded $475,000 in academic scholarships. Monies are raised
through grants, promotionals, volunteers, and donations from individuals. He
asked that Communities in School be considered in the City’s budget process.
Mayor Holden thanked Mr. Callum and stated his support and knowledge of the
program. Alderman Adams discussed the possibility of working with Chief Dove
because of his youth programs.
XII.
Resolution – Clean Water Management Trust Fund Grant Agreement
Alderman Childs moved, seconded by Alderman Brown to adopt the following
Resolution regarding the award and execution of the Clean Water Management
Trust Fund Agreement. Vote of approval was unanimous.
RESOLUTION OF THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT BOARD OF ALDERMEN RELATING TO THE AWARD AND
EXECUTION OF CLEAN WATER MANAGEMENT TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT 2006A-529
WHEREAS, The City of Southport is a qualified grant recipient as defined under
NCGS 113A-254(a), and
WHEREAS, the Southport Board of Aldermen are extremely pleased and grateful to
the Trustees of the Clean Water Management Trust Fund for providing prior
funding assistance to allow for the acquisition of a 406 acre site (CWMTF
2005B-513) that will provide for the environmentally conscious management of
highly treated effluent, and 
WHEREAS, the Board is equally appreciative of the additional funding of a
$3,000,000 grant that will allow the City to ultimately decommission its
current 800,000 GPD wastewater treatment works and eliminate the discharge of
the treatment works discharge into the Atlantic Intracoastal Waterway thereby
fostering the anticipated reopening of an estimated 625 acres of shellfish
waters presently closed to shellfish harvesting, and
WHEREAS, the Trustees of the Clean Water Management Trust Fund awarded the
above referenced grant at its meeting of August 14, 2006 in acknowledgement of
the tremendous environmental benefits to be achieved by this project, and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT HEREBY RESOLVED BY THE SOUTHPORT BOARD OF ALDERMEN THAT:
The City of Southport hereby agrees to perform the functions and obligations of
Grant Recipient as set out in the Grant Agreement and agrees to comply fully
with the conditions, terms and stipulations of the Agreement and applicable
Exhibits as forwarded by the Clean Water Management Trust Fund to the City for
execution. The Board of Aldermen hereby designate Robert W. Grant, AICP, Public
Services Director for the City of Southport and Patty D. Miller, Finance
Director for the City of Southport as representatives of the City fully
authorized to execute any and all documents or transactions relating to CWMTF
Grant Agreement 2006A-529 on behalf of the City and the Board of Aldermen.
DULY ADOPTED, this 17th day of April, 2007.
/s/ Norman R. Holden
Mayor
City of Southport
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
City Clerk
XIII.
Brunswick County Tax Revaluation
Mayor Holden read the following statement . “The property owners in Southport
and other municipalities have raised questions regarding the fairness of the
revaluation of 2007; therefore it is imperative that we take a look at the
process and results. To this end, I am going to appoint a Committee to make
recommendations to the Board at a Special Tax Meeting on April 30. The
Committee will consist of Mr. Adams, Mr. Brown and Mr. Fisher. Mr. Fisher will
act as the Chairman; our City Manager, Finance Director, and Tax Collector will
work with this Committee. I will recommend that the Committee hold at least two
public meetings, one on each Ward. Ward I and Ward II. If you recall, we have
used the ILA Hall for public hearings for the elderly who could not get down
here and up the steps, and therefore I again ask that you do that.”
XIV.
Proclamation – Earth Day
Alderman Childs moved to adopt the following proclaiming Sunday, April 22, 2007
as Earth Day, seconded by Alderman Brown, vote carried.
EARTH DAY PROCLAMATION
WHEREAS, our home, this planet earth, is getting smaller and more crowded as
its population grows and its resources are abused; and
WHEREAS, since the first Earth Day in 1970, the Clean Air Act has made the
nation’s air cleaner, the Clean Water Act has improved water quality; and the
Endangered Species Act has attempted to preserve ecosystems to maintain the
variety of species; and
WHEREAS, following the principals of reduce, repair, reuse and recycle,
residents can improve their environment; and
WHEREAS, preservation is easier and less expensive than restoration; and
WHEREAS, Earth Day provides an opportunity for members of the community to
study, learn and teach local activities which will contribute to protecting our
planet’s ecosystem.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the City of Southport hereby proclaims Sunday
April 22, 2007 Earth Day, to be observed by all citizens in ways to better
understand, appreciate, and preserve the resources of our earth, and especially
the resources of this area.
DULY PROCLAIMED THIS THE 17TH DAY OF APRIL, 2007
/s/ Norman Holden
Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk
XV.
Proclamation – Litter Sweep
Alderman Callari moved, seconded by Alderman Childs to adopt the following
proclaiming April 14-28 as Litter Sweep in Southport. Vote unanimous.
City Manager stated the drop off will be at Lowe-White Park at Leonard Street.
PROCLAMATION
LITTER SWEEP 2007
Whereas, the North Carolina Department of Transportation annually organizes a
spring statewide roadside cleanup to insure clean and beautiful roads in North
Carolina; and
Whereas, the Spring 2007 “ Litter Sweep ” roadside cleanup will take place
April 14 –28, 2007, and encourages local governments, businesses, civic groups,
churches, schools, families, individuals and professional groups to participate
in this effort by organizing cleanups in their communities; and
Whereas, Adopt-A-Highway volunteers, Department of Transportation employees,
Department of Correction inmates and community service workers, local
government agencies, community leaders, civic and community organizations,
businesses, churches, schools, and environmentally concerned citizens conduct
annual local cleanups during “LITTER SWEEP”; and
Whereas, the great natural beauty of our state and a clean environment are
sources of great pride for all North Carolinians, attracting tourists and
aiding in recruiting new industries; and
Whereas, the cleanup will increase awareness of the need for cleaner roadsides,
emphasize the importance of not littering, and encourage recycling of solid
waste; and
Whereas, the 2007 spring cleanup will celebrate its 19th Anniversary of the
North Carolina Adopt A Highway program and its 6,000 volunteer groups that
donate their labor and time year round to keep our roadsides clean.
NOW, THEREFORE, I NORMAN R. HOLDEN, MAYOR OF THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT, NORTH
CAROLINA, do hereby proclaim April 14-28, 2007 as “LITTER SWEEP” time in
Southport and encourage citizens to take an active role in making our city
cleaner.
This 17th day of April 2007.
/s/Norman R. Holden
Mayor
Attest:
/s/Regina W. Alexander, Clerk
XVI.
Proclamation – Municipal Clerk’s Week
Alderman Callari moved, seconded by Alderman Brown to adopt a proclamation
recognizing April 29 – May 5, 2007– as “Municipal Clerk’s Week”. Vote carried
PROCLAMATION
36TH ANNUAL MUNICIPAL CLERKS WEEK
APRIL 29 - MAY 5, 2007
WHEREAS, the Office of the Municipal Clerk, a time honored and vital part of
local government exists throughout the world; and
WHEREAS, the Office of the Municipal Clerk is the oldest among public servants;
and
WHEREAS, the Office of the Municipal Clerk provides the professional link
between the citizens, the local governing bodies and agencies of government at
other levels; and
WHEREAS, the Municipal Clerk serves as the information center on functions of
local government and community; and
WHEREAS, Municipal Clerks continually strive to improve the administration of
the affairs of the Office of the Municipal Clerk through participation in
education programs, seminars, workshops and the annual meetings of their state,
province, county and international professional organizations; and
WHEREAS, it is most appropriate that we recognize the accomplishments of the
Office of the Municipal Clerk;
NOW, THEREFORE, I Norman R. Holden, Mayor of the City of Southport, does
recognize the week of April 29 through May 5, 2007 as “Municipal Clerks Week”,
and further extend appreciation to our Municipal Clerk Regina W. Alexander, and
to all Municipal Clerks for the vital services they perform and their exemplary
dedication to the communities they represent.
ADOPTED, the 17th day of April 2007.
/s/ Norman R. Holden, Mayor
XVII.
Board of Adjustment – Appointment
Alderman Brown moved to appoint Mr. Kenneth W. Karn as an in-town alternate to
the Board of Adjustments, seconded by Alderman Fisher. Vote carried.
XVIII.
Parks and Recreation Advisory Board – Appointment (s)
City Manger Gandy informed the Board that the City advertised and received two
applications. Parks and Recreation members are appointed by the wards they live
in. Mr. Richard Sloan applied from Ward I to fill the position formerly held by
Mickey Hart (deceased), and Scott Jones applied for the ETJ position. The City
will re-advertise to fill the other vacancy in Ward I. Alderman Childs moved to
appoint Mr. Richard Sloan, and Scott Jones to the Parks and Recreation
Committee. Vote was unanimous.
XIX.
Other Business
City Manager announced that the City has been invited to complete a final
application for the river walk project and the application has to be submitted
no later than May 22. He also mentioned that the City has received positive
feedback on the PARTFF grant for renovation of Lowe-White Park.
Alderman Adams moved, seconded by Alderman Callari to give the City Clerk a day
off with pay in honor of Municipal Clerk’s Week. Vote unanimous.
Alderman Fisher showed newly designed signs for two hour parking to replace the
old signs. He stated the cost of eight (8) signs is $800 and moved to purchase
the signs from existing funds, seconded by Alderman Callari, vote carried.
Alderman Callari announced a free yoga class for stress management for City
employees to be held at Fort Johnston and encouraged employees and Board
members to attend.
Mayor Holden referenced the Board back to the presentation by Mr. Garner and
Howie Franklin. He reiterated that they came to the Board to let the City know
that they have asked the County Commissioners for funding, and for the Aldermen
to contact their Commissioner Representative for support.
ADJOURNMENT – 9:00 P.M.
No further business, Alderman Childs moved to adjourn, seconded by Alderman
Brown, vote carried.
/s/ James C. Brown
Mayor Pro Tem
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
City Clerk
MAY 7, 2007
SPECIAL MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN SPECIAL MEETING
MAY 7, 2007       4:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:          Norman R. Holden, Mayor
            Aldermen Nelson Adams, James C. Brown, Jim Powell, Meezie Childs,
            Stuart Callari and Paul Fisher
STAFF:         Rob Gandy, City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander, Clerk
            Mary Russ, Tax Collector
            Patty Miller, Finance Director
Pursuant to notice duly advertised and posted, a Special Meeting was held at 4:
00 p.m., Aldermen Chambers, 201 E. Moore Street, Southport, N. C. for the
purpose of receiving a report and recommendations from the Tax Committee.
Alderman Fisher, Chairman of the Committee, informed the Board that two public
meetings were held, one at the ILA Hall located at 211 W. 10th Street on
Friday, April 27, and Monday, April 30, the Garrison House. The purpose of the
meetings was to receive comments from citizens on the 2007 tax revaluation, and
the effect that it will have on their property. The Committee comprised of
Aldermen Fisher, Adams, Brown, Rob Gandy, City Manager, Patty Miller, Finance
Officer and Mary Russ, Tax Collector, met with several citizens and received
comments and information. The Committee formulated three (3) resolutions for
Board consideration:
RESOLUTION CONCERNING THE BRUNSWICK COUNTY 2007 PROPERTY REVALUATION AND THE
CURRENT RATE OF THE DOSHER HOSPITAL TAX
WHEREAS, North Carolina counties are responsible for the valuation of property
for use in applying property tax rates in all local government jurisdictions;
and
WHEREAS, counties must undertake revaluation of property at least every eight
years according to State law, and
WHEREAS, the intent of revaluation of property on a periodic basis is to ensure
a fair system of property taxation; and
WHEREAS, Brunswick County has chosen to conduct revaluation of property on a
four-year cycle as permitted by State law; and
WHEREAS, Brunswick County has conducted a revaluation to be effective in 2007;
and
WHEREAS, property owners in the City of Southport and other municipalities in
Smithville Township have raised questions concerning the fairness of the
revaluation, including methods used to determine values; and
WHEREAS, the fairness in applying values to individual property is the
cornerstone of the property tax system as determined by State law, and all
necessary steps should be taken to ensure the fairness of the property
valuation process; and
WHEREAS, the 2007 revaluation is fraught with numerous errors and used
antiquated data invalidating the fairness of the system and was based on sales
figures from two years ago, which were higher than they currently are; and
WHEREAS, the system does not allow for changes in the market value and sales
between revaluation periods; and
WHEREAS, the current tax laws do not allow for a homestead exemption for all
citizens of North Carolina and current senior exemption is outdated and
unrealistic; and
WHEREAS, the current property tax system is regressive, outdated and not fair
to all citizens of North Carolina; and
WHEREAS, this revaluation will place an undo tax burden of the citizens of
Southport and Smithville Township who will also be responsible for paying the
four cents tax to Dosher Hospital that will only add to their tax burden; and
WHEREAS, Dosher Hospital stands to receive an unanticipated increase of
approximately $1.7 million in revenues at the four cents tax rate with the new
revaluation figures from the county; such windfall to be financed by the
residents of Smithville Township; and
WHEREAS, the Dosher Hospital tax rate was first established years ago to
support and maintain the operation of the hospital and was used to finance the
bonding debt and therefore should be used to retire the bonds and not for the
purchase of equipment or general expenses; and
WHEREAS, local governments, by law, must begin their budget preparation efforts
by establishing a revenue neutral property tax rate, and we believe Dosher
Hospital should use the same method as it applies to their current tax rate.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, by the City of Southport Board of Aldermen that
the Dosher Hospital Board of Directors closely examine the current tax rate of
four cents and the increased amount of revenues expected to be generated by the
county revaluation and see if this amount can be reduced or eliminated to help
ease the tax burden for the citizens of Southport and Smithville Township as
these citizens have helped support the Hospital for many years and now is the
time for the Hospital to assist those citizens by reducing or eliminating the
current four cents tax rate.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Dosher Hospital Board of Directors join the
efforts recommended by the City of Southport Board of Aldermen to participate
in a task force to work with our state representatives, county commissioners
and municipal elected officials to prepare changes to the property tax system
for the 2008 session of the General Assembly to find ways to reduce the tax
burden on our citizens. Such changes and considerations should be, but not
limited to, a new system to replace the antiquated taxing system, the expansion
of the tax base to include a land transfer tax, homestead exemption on primary
residences for all North Carolina citizens, a realistic elderly exemption and
the establishment of a floating rate tied to the bond for Dosher Hospital.
DULY RESOLVED, by the City of Southport Board of Aldermen this the 7th Day of
May 2007.
______________________________
Mayor
Attest:
_________________________________
City Clerk
RESOLUTION CONCERNING BRUNSWICK COUNTY 2007 PROPERTY REVALUATION
WHEREAS, North Carolina counties are responsible for the valuation of property
for use in applying property tax rates in all local government jurisdictions;
and
WHEREAS, counties must undertake revaluation of property at least every eight
years according to State law; and
WHEREAS, the intent of revaluation of property on a periodic basis is to ensure
a fair system of property taxation; and
WHEREAS, Brunswick County has chosen to conduct revaluation of property on a
four-year cycle as permitted by State law; and
WHEREAS, Brunswick County has conducted a revaluation to be effective in 2007;
and
WHEREAS, property owners in the City of Southport and other municipalities in
Smithville Township have raised questions concerning the fairness of the
revaluation, including methods used to determine values; and
WHEREAS, the fairness in applying values to individual property is the
cornerstone of the property tax system as determined by State law, and all
necessary steps should be taken to ensure the fairness of the property
valuation process; and
WHEREAS, the 2007 revaluation is fraught with numerous errors and used
antiquated data invalidating the fairness of the system and was based on sales
figures from two years ago, which were higher than they currently are; and
WHEREAS, the system does not allow for changes in the market value and sales
between revaluation periods; and
WHEREAS, the current tax laws do not allow for a homestead exemption for all
citizens of North Carolina and the current senior exemption is outdated and
unrealistic; and
WHEREAS, the current property tax system is regressive, outdated and not fair
to all citizens of North Carolina.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the City of Southport Board of Aldermen that
Brunswick County give strong consideration to the following suggestions and
recommendations:
1.   to put aside the 2007 tax revaluation until the tax system can be studied
by our state legislators, county commissioners, municipal officials and the
Dosher Hospital Board.
2.   that the county take the lead in establishing a task force to rework the
current system and recommend changes to the appropriate levels of government.
The task force, working with our state representatives, county commissioners,
municipal elected officials and Dosher Hospital Board prepare changes to the
tax system for the 2008 session of the General Assembly.
3.   the considerations to be studied by the task force are, but not limited
to:
a.   an updated system to replace the antiquated taxing system.
b.   expansion of the tax base to include a land transfer tax, homestead
exemption on primary residences for all citizens of North Carolina, a realistic
elderly exemption, a new fair system to conduct revaluations, and the
establishment of a floating rate tied to the bonds for Dosher Hospital.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the local representatives to the General Assembly
support this effort and support any bills currently in the legislature that
will reduce the property tax burden on the citizens of North Carolina.
DULY RESOLVED by the City of Southport Board of Aldermen this the 7th Day of
May, 2007.
_______________________________
Mayor
Attest:
________________________________
City Clerk
RESOLUTION CONCERNING BRUNSWICK COUNTY 2007 PROPERTY REVALUATION AND REQUEST
FOR STATE ASSISTANCE IN REVAMPING CURRENT TAX SYSTEM
WHEREAS, North Carolina counties are responsible for the valuation of property
for use in applying property tax rates in all local government jurisdictions;
and
WHEREAS, counties must undertake revaluation of property at least every eight
years according to State law; and
WHEREAS, the intent of revaluation of property on a periodic basis is to ensure
a fair system of property taxation; and
WHEREAS, Brunswick County has conducted a revaluation to be effective in 2007;
and
WHEREAS, property owners in the City of Southport and other municipalities in
Smithville Township have raised questions concerning the fairness of the
revaluation, including methods used to determine values; and
WHEREAS, the fairness in applying values to individual property is the
cornerstone of the property tax system as determined by State law, and all
necessary steps should be taken to ensure the fairness of the property
valuation process; and
WHEREAS, the 2007 revaluation is fraught with numerous errors and used
antiquated data invalidating the fairness of the system and was based on sales
figures from two years ago, which were higher than they currently are; and
WHEREAS, the system does not allow for changes in the market value and sales
between revaluation periods; and
WHEREAS, the current tax laws do not allow for a homestead exemption for all
citizens of North Carolina and current senior exemption is outdated and
unrealistic; and
WHEREAS, the current property tax system is regressive, outdated and not fair
to all citizens of North Carolina; and
WHEREAS, the current system relies too much on property taxes and needs to be
studied and the tax base expanded.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the City of Southport Board of Aldermen and
other municipalities request that the 2007 revaluation be put aside until the
system can be studied by our state representatives, county commissioners,
elected municipal officials, and the Dosher Hospital Board. Additionally, it is
requested that the county take the lead in establishing a task force to rework
the current system and recommend changes to the appropriate levels of
government. The task force, working with our state representatives, county
commissioners, municipal elected officials and Dosher Hospital Board prepare
changes to the system for the 2008 session of the General Assembly.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the local representatives to the General Assembly
support this effort by recognizing the current property tax system is outdated
and study ways to expand the tax base to include a land transfer tax, a
homestead exemption on primary residences for all citizens of North Carolina, a
realistic elderly exemption, a new fair system to conduct revaluations, the
major overhaul of the Machinery Act, and the establishment of a floating rate
tied to bonds for Dosher Hospital.
DULY RESOLVED by the City of Southport Board of Aldermen this the 7th Day of
May, 2007.
__________________________________
Mayor
Attest:
____________________________________
City Clerk
Alderman Fisher stated that the resolutions were sent to each council member
prior to this meeting for review and comments. He stated the law requires the
county to conduct a revaluation every eight years, however Brunswick County has
elected to perform one every four years and the general statutes does not
preclude them from doing so. After review, Alderman Fisher moved to approve the
resolutions, seconded by Alderman Brown. The vote was unanimous. He explained
that he will hand deliver the resolutions to Representatives Bonner Stiller,
Dewey Hill and Senator Soles on May 9 while in attendance at the NCLM Town Hall
Day in Raleigh. He asked that Board members accompany him to the County
Commissioners meeting on May 21 to present the resolutions, and they will be
presented to the Hospital Board.
Alderman Fisher requested the Clerk notify each municipality, which adopted
resolutions and ask them to attend the County Commissioners’ meeting on May 21.
No other comments, Alderman Childs moved to adjourn, seconded by Alderman
Brown, vote carried.
_____________________________
/s/ Norman R. Holden
Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
City Clerk
MAY 10, 2007
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
MAY 10, 2007      7:30 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         James C. Brown, Mayor Pro Tempore’
            Aldermen Nelson Adams, James Powell and Paul Fisher
ABSENT:         Mayor Norman Holden
            Aldermen Meezie Childs and Stuart Callari
STAFF:         Rob Gandy, City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander, City Clerk
            Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
            Chad Hicks, City Planner
I.
Call to Order
Mayor Pro Tem Brown called the meeting to order at 7:35 p.m.
II.
Invocation
Mayor Pro Tem Brown delivered the invocation.
III.
Approval of Minutes
Alderman Powell motioned to approve the regular meeting minutes of April 17,
2007 seconded by Alderman Fisher, vote carried.
IV.
Citizen Matters (Non-Agenda Items)
There were no petitions from the floor.
V.
Brett Berne – Eagle Scout Project
Brett Berne, member of Boy Scout Troop #238 thanked the Mayor, City Manager,
and the Board for their support while working on his Eagle Scout project for
the City. He built seven flower boxes that were placed in the downtown area,
and placed rope fences around three of the live oak trees to protect them from
damage. He explained that the last phase of his project was to attend a City
Council meeting to present the project outlining his work. Mayor Pro Tem Brown
thanked Scout Berne for this worthwhile project, which will benefit and
beautify the city, including the fence ropes for the preservation of the live
oak trees. He commended Scout Berne and others who has reached this pinnacle
and setting an example for other young men. Nathan Almirall, an Eagle Scout
attended and was introduced by Scout Berne.
VI.
Public Hearing – Fort Johnston Boardwalk Beach Access Grant
Alderman Adams moved, seconded by Alderman Powell to enter Public Hearing to
receive comments regarding the City of Southport’s Fort Johnston Boardwalk
Beach Access Grant. The vote carried.
Mr. Hicks, City Planner stated the City has been invited to submit a final
application for the Fort Johnston Boardwalk Project for $400,000.00. He is
asking for public comments before the final application is submitted, and asked
that the record show that the Board is in support of this project.
There being no further comments, Alderman Fisher moved, seconded by Alderman
Adams to re-enter regular session, the vote carried.
Alderman Adams motioned that the Board support the Fort Johnston Beach Access
Grant application process, seconded by Alderman Fisher, vote carried.
VII.
Public Hearing to amend Article 9, Section 9-1 “Open Space District” of the
Unified Development Ordinance (Open Space Permitted Uses)
Alderman Powell motioned to enter Public Hearing to receive comments on Article
9, Section 9-1 “Open Space District” of the Unified Development Ordinance, to
read “Area of special public interest that should be placed in a zone protected
from any development other than improvements or uses undertaken by the City of
Southport,” seconded by Alderman Fisher, vote carried.
Mr. Hicks explained that the Unified Development Ordinance does not allow the
City of Southport to use land zoned open space. In order to avoid future
issues, the Planning Board and staff recommends that the Unified Development
Ordinance table of permitted uses be modified to allow the City of Southport to
use any land zoned open space for improvements or uses that the Aldermen deems
necessary.
There were no public comments.
Alderman Adams motioned, seconded by Alderman Fisher to close the Public
Hearing and to re-enter regular session, vote carried.
Alderman Fisher moved to amend Article 9, Section 9-1 “Open Space District”,
seconded by Alderman Powell, vote was unanimous.
ARTICLE 9. ZONING DISTRICTS AND ZONING MAP
Section 9-1: Establishment of Zoning Districts, and the Purpose Thereof
(L) OS Open Space District.
Amend as follows: Areas of special public interest that should be placed in a
zone protected from any development other than improvements or uses undertaken
by the City of Southport.
VIII.
Public Hearing to amend Article II, Table of area, yard, density and height
requirements note 3” of the Unified Development Ordinance, to read “Shall be
determined based upon the requirements of Conditional Use Permit issued by the
Southport Board of Aldermen, and the addition of note 6 to read: eight (8)
acres in the City limits, 25 acres in the extraterritorial jurisdiction.
Alderman Powell moved to enter Public Hearing to receive public comments on
amending Article II, Table of area, yard, density and height requirements. Note
3” of the Unified Development Ordinance to read “Shall be determined based upon
the requirements of Conditional Use Permit issued by the Southport Board of
Aldermen, and the addition of note 6 to read: eight (8) acres in the City
limits, 25 acres in the extraterritorial jurisdiction.” Motion seconded by
Alderman Adams, vote carried.
Mr. Hicks stated the Planned Unit Developments are critical to the management
of growth in Southport. In using Planned Unit Developments, developers and the
City can work together to design and build developments that are assets to the
community. When the Unified Development Ordinance was written, the ability to
negotiate with developers on area, yard, density and height requirements was
removed. He believes in some instances, PUD’s are beneficial to the city and
the residents of the developments if more area is given to open space or
preservation of on site wetlands. If the Board approves this language change,
protections will be in place to prohibit a poor plan from being approved. He
stated the Board of Aldermen must approve all developments and lot standards,
and the current restriction of six dwelling units per acre in a PUD will remain
in place. The purpose of this change is to allow more room to collaborate with
developers to ensure that projects in Southport are designed to a standard that
fits Southport.
Addition of Note 6
Note six needs to be added to the table in Article 11 to account for the PUD
acreage requirement change that was previously adopted, which is a housekeeping
matter and will not change the substance of the UDO.
Mr. Ed Boguskie member of the Zoning Board of Adjustments addressed several
questions to Mr. Hicks and he responded accordingly. Mr. Hicks explained that
amending this article would allow more flexibility and each situation will
stand on it own and the density will not be affected.
Alderman Powell moved to close the Public Hearing and to re-enter regular
session, motion seconded by Alderman Fisher, vote carried.
Alderman Fisher moved to amend Article 11 as recommended by Planning Board and
staff, seconded by Alderman Powell, vote carried.
ARTICLE 11. TABLE OF AREA, YARD, DENSITY, AND HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS
Amend note 3 as follows:   Shall be determined based upon the requirements of
Conditional Use Permit issued by the Southport Board of Aldermen.
Add note 6:    8 acres in City limits
      25 acres in Extraterritorial Jurisdiction
IX.
Public Hearing to amend Article 14 “Planned Unit Development (PUD) of the
Unified Development Ordinance by striking the sentence, “The applicable yard
setback requirements for single-family structures shall be based upon the
square footage of the lot.
Alderman Fisher moved, seconded by Alderman Powell to enter Public Hearing to
amend Article 14 “Planned Unit Development (PUD) of the Unified Development
Ordinance by striking the sentence, “The applicable yard setback requirements
for single-family structures shall be based upon the square footage of the lot.
Vote carried.
Mr. Hicks explained that due to approval of the UDO modification allowing
design standards to be approved by a conditional use permit in a PUD, the
following needs to be stricken from the UDO. “ The applicable yard setback
requirements for single-family structures shall be based upon the square
footage of the lot.”
Motion by Alderman Powell to re-enter regular session, seconded by Alderman
Fisher, vote carried.
Alderman Adams motioned to approve the change upon recommendation of the
Planning Board and staff, seconded by Alderman Fisher, vote carried.
ARTICLE 14. PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD)
Section 14-5: Residential Development
Strike the following sentence from the paragraph:
The applicable yard setback requirements for single-family structures shall be
based upon the square footage of the lot.
X.
Review of Jonas Creek Sketch Plan (Roy Pender, Developer)
Mr. Dan Blackman, Landscape Architect, and Roy Pender, Developer, presented
Jonas Creek Sketch Plan for review. The property is zoned PUD and is located at
the end of West West Street. The Plan requires no formal action by the Board,
however if the Board is favorable to the overall concept, a Conditional Use
Permit will be the next step in the process. The Board made favorable comments
on the proposed development, which included storm water ponds, sidewalks and a
second outlet for egress/ingress. Alderman Fisher asked that thought be given
to a grocery store, which would be convenient for small items.
XI.
Resolution – Clean Water Act of 2007
Alderman Fisher moved to approve a resolution of support for the Clean Water
Act of 2007, seconded by Alderman Powell. The vote was unanimous.
RESOLUTION OF SUPPORT FOR THE CLEAN WATER ACT OF 2007
WHEREAS, North Carolina’s continued prosperity depends on protecting the
State’s water resources for current use and future generations; and
WHEREAS, North Carolina is expected to grow by 3.5 million people to exceed 12
million by the year 2030, placing pressures on the State’s water resources and
local water providers; and
WHEREAS, North Carolina’s businesses, traditional and emerging industries all
depend on reliable supplies of clean water, reasonable utility costs, well
maintained water infrastructure and an attractive natural environment; and
WHEREAS, the 1998 Clean Water Bonds delivered significant benefits to North
Carolina communities and citizens, supporting 1,103 projects in 97 counties,
which
>   helped create or retain 42,000 jobs
>   corrected major regulatory violations in 97 communities
>   addressed failing septic systems and contaminated wells in 59 counties
>   resulted in 50 communities receiving sewer service for the first time
>   encouraged regional efficiencies, sound planning and conservation
practices; and,
WHEREAS, North Carolina’s public water, sewer and storm water utilities will
require Investments totaling $16.63 billion to keep pace with necessary
improvements and population growth over the next 25 years, including $6.85
billion in investments within the next five years.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the City of Southport Board of Aldermen
urges the North Carolina General Assembly to enact the “Clean Water Act of
2007”, which provides for a $500 million bond issue to be expended over the
next five years, and an annual appropriation of $50 million in recurring
funding to address urgent needs.
DULY ADOPTED THIS THE 10th DAY OF MAY, 2007
/s/ James C. Brown, Mayor Pro Tem
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, City Clerk
XII.
Proclamation – Motorcycle Safety Awareness Month
Alderman Fisher moved, seconded by Alderman Adams to adopt the following
Proclamation designating the month of May as Motorcycle Safety Awareness Month.
Motion seconded by Alderman Adams, vote carried.
PROCLAMATION
Motorcycle Safety Awareness Month
May 2007
WHEREAS, motorcycling is a popular mode of transportation and recreation for
thousands of citizens across Brunswick County, the State of North Carolina and
the United States; and
WHEREAS, North Carolina has 146,041 registered motorcycles, including 1,944 in
Brunswick County, and 260,000 licensed drivers with motorcycle endorsements or
motorcycle learner’s permit; and
WHEREAS, it is important that the citizens of Brunswick County, its cities and
municipalities, be aware of motorcycles on its 2,023 miles of roadways, and
recognize the importance of sharing the road with motorcycles; and
WHEREAS, the safe operation of a motorcycle is enhanced through a combination
of rider training and experience, good judgment, and a knowledge of traffic
laws and licensing requirements; and
WHEREAS, Brunswick County Concerned Bikers Association/ABATE of NC is committed
to increasing the safe operation of motorcycles by promoting rider safety
education programs; their goal is to alert the motorists of Brunswick County,
its cities and municipalities to “Look Twice and Save a Life”; and
WHEREAS, Motorcycle Awareness Month is designed to increase public awareness
about motorcycles and to encourage their safe and proper use among motorcycle
riders.
NOW, THEREFORE, the Southport Board of Aldermen, do hereby proclaim the month
of May 2007 as Motorcycle Awareness Month in entity and urge all citizens to
call this observance to the attention of all our citizens.
THIS, the 10th Day of May 2007
/s/ James C. Brown, Mayor Pro Tem
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, Clerk
XIII.
Contract- Fire Department (Land Purchase)
Alderman Fisher moved to approve the contract to purchase lots 8 and 9, Section
7-A located on Lord Street from Nancy Tucker Vereen for $150,000.00, seconded
by Alderman Adams. (Contract on file)
XIV.
Tax Releases
Alderman Fisher motioned, seconded by Mayor Pro Tem Brown to approve the tax
release for Hughes Enterprises (Car Wash) in the amount of $41.50, value
released was $13,500. (Business sold in 2004) Vote carried.
XV.
Budget Amendments
Alderman Powell motioned, seconded by Alderman Adams to approve budget
amendments #22 - #25. Vote carried.
Budget Amendment #22
Fiscal Year 2006-2007
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, in Board
assembled regular, session on May 10, 2007, that the following Budget Amendment
be adopted for funding fiscal year-end line item budget reclassifications.
There will be no change in total fund budget with this amendment.
General Fund
Section I
                               Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
      Board              (29,750)         199,619
      Administration     24,350           465,011
      Buildings & Grounds(2,000)          392,380
      Police             5,500            812,542.80
      Fire Department    14,300           575,251.68
      Code Enforcement   0.00             273,956.89
      Rescue             17,500           180,662.64
      Street             2,100            362,545
      Solid Waste        (20,000)         87,610
      Cemetery           (2,500)          6,000
      Parks & Recreation (14,900)         403,076
      Tourism            5,400            153,430
            Total  0.00
 
ADOPTED, this the 10th day of May, 2007
/s/ James C. Brown, Mayor Pro Tem
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk
Budget Amendment #23
Fiscal Year 2006-2007
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled regular session on May 10, 2007, that the following Budget Amendment
be adopted for funding fiscal year-end line item budget reclassifications.
There will be no change in total fund budget with this amendment.
 
Powell Bill Fund
Section II
                               Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
C.   Appropriated Expenditures
      Storm Drain        (10,000)
      Sidewalk Repairs   10,000           123,450
            Total  0.00
 
ADOPTED this the 10th day of May, 2007
/s/James C. Brown, Mayor Pro Tem
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, Clerk
Budget Amendment #24
Fiscal Year 2006-2007
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled regular session on May 10, 2007, that the following Budget Amendment
be adopted for funding fiscal year-end line item budget reclassifications.
There will be no change in total fund budget with this amendment.
Electric Fund
Section IV
                               Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
D.   Appropriated Expenditures
      Salaries & Benefits6,100
      Operations & Mainte(6,100)
   Capital                  0.00             7,047,847
            Total  0.00
 
ADOPTED this the 10th day of May, 2007
/s/ James C. Brown, Mayor Pro Tem
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
City Clerk
Budget Amendment #25
Fiscal Year 2006-2007
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled regular session on May 10, 2007, that the following Budget Amendment
be adopted for funding fiscal year-end line item budget reclassifications.
There will be no change in total fund budget with this amendment.
 
Water/Sewer Fund
Section V
                               Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Appropriated Expenditures
      Operations & Mainte1,500
   Capital                  (1,500)          3,261.983.70
            Total  0.00
 
ADOPTED, this the 10th day of May, 2007
/s/ James C. Brown, Mayor Pro Tem
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk
XVI.
Other Business
Alderman Fisher told the Board that the senior building had been moved to the
site on Fodale behind the Jaycee Building.
Alderman Fisher stated that he and Alderman Powell hand delivered the tax
resolutions to Senator R. C. Soles, Representatives Dewey Hill, Bonner Stiller,
and Susan Rabon, the Governor’s Administrative Assistant. He asked that they
review the resolutions and support the Board’s action. On May 21, he is
scheduled to present same to the County Commissioners.
Alderman Fisher told the Board about the compliments he received about staff
during the spring cleanup and their helpfulness to residents. He requested a
letter of recognition be sent to Steven Burris.
XVII.
Other Comments
None
XVIII.
Adjournment
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned upon motion of
Alderman Adams, seconded by Alderman Powell, vote carried.
__________________________________
/s/ James C. Brown
Mayor Pro Tempore’
________________________
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
JUNE 14, 2007
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
JUNE 14, 2007     7:30 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, N. C.
 
PRESENT:          Norman R. Holden, Mayor
            James Brown, Mayor Pro Tem
            Aldermen Nelson E. Adams, Mary “Meezie” Childs,
            Paul Fisher, James Powell and Mary “Stuart” Callari
STAFF:         Rob Gandy, City Manager
            Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
            Chad Hicks, City Planner
ABSENT:         Regina W. Alexander, City Clerk
I.
Call to Order
Mayor Holden called the meeting to order at 7:30 p.m.
II.
Invocation
Mayor Pro Tem Brown delivered the invocation.
III.
Approval of Minutes
Alderman Powell moved to approve the special meeting minutes from May 7, 2007
and the regular meeting minutes of May 10th seconded by Alderman Callari. The
vote of approval was unanimous.
IV.
Citizen Matters (Petitions from the floor)
The Board acknowledged a request from Mr. Ed Boguskie of 502 West Brown Street
on behalf of the Southport Historical Society and the Cape Fear River Pilot’s
asking that the Board adopt a resolution in support of the Pilot’s Ceremony to
be held August 11, 2007.
V.
Public Hearing on request by Dosher Hospital to close permanently a portion of
the western end of Fodale Avenue at its intersection with the eastern line of
Howe Street.
Alderman Childs moved seconded by Alderman Powell to enter Public Hearing, vote
carried.
Attorney Isenberg explained that it was determined during survey of property
for the City and Dosher Hospital, that a portion of the pavement for Fodale
Avenue near the terminus of Howe Street was misaligned and partially out of the
City’s right of way. A portion of the pavement is owned by Dosher Hospital,
they have provided the city a deed that will give the City the pavement located
on their property, and they in turn request that the City close a similar
portion on the North side of Fodale Avenue. Attorney Isenberg communicated that
he has the deed, which has been executed by hospital officials. Mayor Holden
asked if this action would close Fodale Avenue, and Attorney Isenberg responded
that the pavement would not change at all.
There were no questions from the public.
Alderman Childs moved, seconded by Alderman Adams to close the Hearing to re-
enter regular session, vote carried.
Alderman Fisher moved, seconded by Alderman Callari to adopt the order closing
permanently a portion of the western end of Fodale Avenue at its intersection
with the eastern line of Howe Street. Vote carried.
STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA
ORDER
BRUNSWICK COUNTY
THAT WHEREAS, G. S. 160A-299 requires that when a city proposes to permanently
close any street or public alley that the Board of Aldermen first adopt a
resolution declaring its intent to close said street or alley and calling for a
public hearing on the question; and
WHEREAS, G. S. 160A-299 further requires that the resolution to close the
street or alley be published once a week for four successive weeks prior to the
date of said hearing, that a copy thereof be sent by registered or certified
mail to all owners of property adjoining the portion of the street or alley to
be closed as shown on the county tax records, and that notice of the closing
and public hearing be prominently posted in at least two places along the
street or alley to be closed; and
WHEREAS, on April 17, 2007, the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport
passed a resolution proposing to close the following described portion of
Fodale Avenue ,and also calling for a public hearing on said question:
Beginning at the point where the northern line of Fodale Avenue intersects the
eastern line of Howe Street and run thence South 70 degrees 06 minutes 48
seconds East 154.78feet with the northern line of Fodale Avenue to an iron
stake; run thence South 30 degrees16 minutes 46 seconds East 46.88 feet to a
point in Fodale Avenue; run thence North 73 degrees 47 minutes 21 seconds West
156.57 feet to the eastern line of Howe Street; run thence with the eastern
line of Howe Street North 20 degrees 52 minutes 00 seconds West 52.89 feet to
the point of beginning, containing approximately 5628 square feet; and
WHEREAS, the City of Southport has complied with all requirements of G. S.
160A-299, including the holding of the public hearing and the giving of all
required notice; and
WHEREAS, no portion of the street or alley to be closed is under the authority
or control of the Board of Transportation; and
WHEREAS, adjoining property owners and other persons were heard on the question
of whether or not the closing would be detrimental to the public interest or
the property rights of any individual; and
WHEREAS, it appears to the satisfaction of the Board of Aldermen after the
hearing that the closing of this road is not contrary to the public interest
and that no individual owning property in the vicinity of the road or in the
subdivision in which it is located would be deprived of reasonable means of
ingress and egress to their property and that the portion of said road
described above should be closed;
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED pursuant to G. S. 160A-299 as follows:
1.   That the following described portion of Fodale Avenue is hereby closed:
Beginning at the point where the northern line of Fodale Avenue intersects the
eastern line of Howe Street and run thence South 70 degrees 06 minutes 48
seconds East 154.78 feet with the northern line of Fodale Avenue to an iron
stake; run thence South 30 degrees 16 minutes 46 seconds East 46.88 feet to a
point in Fodale Avenue; run thence North 73 degrees 47 minutes 21 seconds West
156.57 feet to the eastern line of Howe Street; run thence with the eastern
line of Howe Street North 20 degrees 52 minutes 00 seconds West 52.89 feet to
the point of beginning, containing approximately 5628 square feet.
2.   That the City of Southport hereby reserves and retains all right, title
and interest in the utility improvements and easements, if any, located within
said road as described above.
This the 14th day of June, 2007.
CITY OF SOUTHPORT
BY:
/s/ Norman R. Holden
Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk
VI.
Public Hearing on the City of Southport’s Wastewater Master Plan – Carter
Hubard, W. K. Dickson
Alderman Childs moved to enter Public Hearing, seconded by Alderman Powell, the
vote of approval was unanimous.
Mr. Carter Hubard, Engineer with W.K. Dickson, presented a power point
presentation on the Wastewater Plan; he outlined the project summary, funding
and schedule and selected alternatives including the grant/loan amount. In
presentation, he stated that the City’s WWTP was originally built in the 1960’s
and expanded in the 80’s discharging into the Intracoastal Waterway at the
mouth of Cottage Creek. He stated the facility is in compliance but may not be
re-permitted due to regulations and it is costly to maintain and does not
satisfy the long-term needs. Mr. Hubard elaborated further on the wastewater
disposal site, projections for the future i.e. growth trends, transmission
facilities, regional wastewater treatment i.e. expansion of SBDSD WWTP from 0.5
to 2.0 MGD with interlocal agreement and infiltration of treated effluent.
Funding will come through the Clean Water Management Trust Fund grant of $1.8
million for the disposal site, and $3 million for subject wastewater project.
Grants and loans in the amount of $8,952,000, impact fees and user rates, which
would help to reduce the loan and monthly rates.
Mr. Gene Hart of 822 Memory Lane asked about solid waste and sending treated
water to Sunny Point.
Ms. Suzanne Dorsey of 808 Indigo asked about testing of the aquifer.
Mr. Hubbard responded to all questions.
Mr. Ed Boguskie of 502 Brown Street asked Mr. Hubard the following questions:
·   Will treated water be sent to Sunny Point? Mr. Hubbard responded yes.
·   What will happen to the sludge: Sludge will be handled under a separate
contract
·   Will the groundwater aquifer be monitored: Mr. Hubbard responded that these
types of facilities usually have groundwater monitoring.
No further discussion, Alderman Callari moved to close the Hearing and re-enter
regular session, seconded by Alderman Childs. Vote carried.
VII.
Presentation by Dr. Suzanne Dorsey, Executive Director of Bald Head Island
Conservancy on barrier islands research and environmental issues.
Alderman Brown introduced Dr. Suzanne Dorsey, who spoke on research the
conservancy is doing on Bald Head about barrier islands and other environmental
issues.
Dr. Dorsey did a presentation on the barrier islands and their importance to
the mainland (Southport). She stated that her goal is to form a network of the
barrier island communities and to inform people about the importance of these
islands. They have established a private non-profit organization that is
working to protect the islands. She informed the Board that she is available to
assist and share information about her work to save the barrier islands.
VIII.
Review of proposed lease between the City of Southport and Alltel to locate six
antennas on the city’s water tank.
Mr. Tom Egan, site acquisition specialist for ERS Realty Services made a
written request and submitted a sample lease agreement requesting to lease
space on the city’s water tank for the location of six communication antennas.
(Howe Street)
City Manager Gandy communicated that the City does not have a written policy,
however minutes of 2004 referenced that the Board did not want antennas placed
on the water tank and as a result of no written policy, staff decided to bring
the matter to the Board for a decision on a per case basis. It was the
consensus of the Board, that they will not allow antennas to be placed on city
owned water tanks.
City Manager Gandy suggested representatives talk with the county about their
tank.
IX.
Review of contiguous annexation petition submitted pursuant to G.S. 160A-31 by
Greg and Deloris White for the property that contains Peacock, Newman and White
Funeral Home located at 1411 North Howe Street.
Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Callari to direct the Clerk to
investigate the sufficiency of the petition, vote carried.
X.
Final Plat Approval – Cades Cove Phase II, Section 3 and 5
Mr. Hicks, City Planner presented the final plat for Cades Cove. It was
explained that the Board previously approved the plats, however the developer
did not meet the time schedule for recordation (90 days) and as a result, the
Board will need to re-approve the plats.
Alderman Fisher moved, seconded by Alderman Adams that the final plat for Cades
Cove, Phase II, Section 3 and 5 be approved subject to an approved force main
easement delivered to the City Manager. Vote carried.
XI.
Public Hearing – FY 2007-08 Budget
Alderman Brown moved, seconded by Alderman Childs to advertise the Public
Hearing on the budget for June 28, 6:00 p.m.
XII.
Appointment – Parks and Recreation Advisory Board
Mayor Holden tabled the appointment to the Recreation Board and asked that it
be re-advertised since only one application was received.
XIII.
Tax Release
Motion by Alderman Fisher, seconded by Alderman Childs to approve the following
tax releases, vote carried.
 
Bill/Parcel # Name/Acct No. Date   Amt. Released Value Released Reason
2651          Debbie Barnes 6/1/07 149.09        53,219         Boat soldJuly
                                                                2005
2623          Eric Dobbyn   6/1/07 34.14         11,960         Boat kept at
                                                                winding River
2720          Jean Lefervre 6/1/07 83.19         29,700         Boat kept at
              Pierre                                            BHI Marina
                                                                Boat moved to
2762          Thomas Powell 6/1/07 29.27         10,450         Oriental in
                                                                2005
2821          William Van   6/1/07 15.02         5,360          Boat billed
                                                                twice in error
 
XIV.
Budget Amendments
Motion by Alderman Childs to approve budget amendments 26-30, seconded by
Alderman Callari, vote carried.
Budget Amendment #26
Fiscal Year 2006-2007
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session June 14, 2007, that the following Budget Amendment
be adopted for revenues received from Fire Department fund balance for land
purchase and addition to Fire Department building, revenues received from
financing proceeds for new Pumper Truck and revenues received from insurance
recovery for repairs to fire truck.
General Fund
                                            Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section I
A.   Revenues Anticipated
      Fund Balance Reserved           173,145
         for Fire Dept.
      Proceeds from Finance           270,083
Insurance Recovery                          3,209            1,021,688.68
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
      Fire Department
         Capital Outlay Land & Cons173,145n
            Capital Outlay Vehic270,083
            R/M Vehicle         3,209            1,021,688.68
 
ADOPTED this the 14th day of June, 2007
/s/ Norman Holden, Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk to the Board of Aldermen
Budget Amendment #27
Fiscal Year 2006-2007
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session June 14, 2007, that the following Budget Amendment
be adopted for revenues from Home Revolving Loan fund balance for repairs to
qualifying home repairs, approved by Holland Consulting.
General Fund
                                 Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section I
C.   Revenues Anticipated
      Fund Balance Reserved10,000           402,380
         for Home Revolving Loan
D.   Appropriated Expenditures
      Building & Grounds
         Home Revolving Loan
            Expenses 10,000           402,380
 
ADOPTED this the 14th day of June, 2007
/s/ Mayor Norman Holden
Attest:
/s/ Regina Alexander
Clerk to the Board of Aldermen
Budget Amendment #28
Fiscal Year 2006-2007
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session June 14, 2007, that the following Budget Amendment
be adopted for transferring budgeted amounts from one line item to anther
within the same department.
General Fund
                               Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section I
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
      Code Enforcement
          Equipment Pu1500.00
          Travel & Tra1500.00)         273,956.89
                               0.00
 
ADOPTED this the 14th day of June, 2007
/s/ Mayor Norman Holden 
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk to the Board of Aldermen
Budget Amendment #29
Fiscal Year 2006-2007
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session June 14, 2007, that the following Budget Amendment
be adopted for revenues received from private capital contribution for Hwy 211
waterline connection and miscellaneous revenues for capital expenses.
Water/Sewer Fund
                                  Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section V
   A.   Revenues Anticipated
         NCDOT – 211 Water Line
            Private Co58,860tion
         Misc. Revenue   1,278            3,322,121.70
   B.   Appropriated Expenditures
         Bond Retirement 13,659
         Wastewater Maste46,479           3,322,121.70
 
Adopted, this the 14th day of June, 2007.
/s/ Norman Holden, Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina Alexander
Clerk to the Board
Budget Amendment #30
Fiscal Year 2006-2007
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session June 14, 2007, that the following Budget Amendment
be adopted for transferring expenditures from one line item to another within
the same fund
 
Wastewater System Enhancement
Capital Project Fund
                              Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Appropriated Expenditures
      Professional Fees 60,000
      Contingency       (60,000)         1,777,974.74
                              0.00
 
ADOPTED this the 14th day of June, 2007
/s/ Mayor Norman Holden
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk to the Board of Aldermen
XV.
Code Enforcement Matter
Mr. Charles Drew, Code Enforcement Officer presented a request to participate
in the county’s clean up program to remove a dilapidated structure from 205
West Leonard Street. (Katie Inez Adams) Alderman Adams requested to be excused
from the vote.
Alderman Childs moved, seconded by Alderman Callari to approve the request,
vote carried.
XVI.
Review of Resolution supporting efforts of Brunswick County – Smithville
Township Hospital tax issue
Mayor Holden stated that he supports the two-cent tax reduction, however; if
the County Commissioners and the Hospital Board does not agree on the
Committee’s recommendation, he will support presenting this matter to the
legislature by January. However, he trusts that the Hospital will take the
initiative to work with the City. The City and Hospital has had a good
relationship in the past and has always been able to work amicable i.e. closing
a street for the hospital expansion, paying their electric bill amongst other
things the city has contributed.
Alderman Fisher moved to approve the following resolution, seconded by Alderman
Callari, the vote of approval was unanimous.
Mayor Holden asked that a copy of the resolution be sent to Senator R. C.
Soles, Representatives Bonner Stiller and Dewey Hill.
RESOLUTION
RESOLUTION SUPPORTING EFFORTS OF BRUNSWICK COUNTY-SMITHVILLE TOWNSHIP HOSPITAL
TAX ISSUE
WHEREAS, a four-cent tax is levied on property in Smithville Township for
support of the J. Arthur Dosher Memorial Hospital located in Southport; and
WHEREAS, Smithville Township includes areas governed by Brunswick County and
the municipalities of Bald Head Island, Caswell Beach, Oak Island, Southport
and St. James; and
WHEREAS, a revaluation of property in Brunswick County, including Smithville
Township, has taken place with new, substantially increased, property values
effective in the 2007-08 fiscal year; and
WHEREAS, government entities in Smithville Township have been approached by
property owners in Smithville Township concerning the impact of increased
property values and its effect on the four-cent tax levied on property in
Smithville Township for support of J. Arthur Dosher Memorial Hospital; and
WHEREAS, the dramatically increased property values were not anticipated at the
time of the most recent ballot questions in May, 2000; and
WHEREAS, there is a need to achieve a financial solution to the Smithville
Township property tax issue brought by escalating property values without
harming the J. Arthur Dosher Memorial Hospital or Brunswick County’s bond
rating; and
WHEREAS, the government entity best able to address the Smithville Township
property tax issue is the Brunswick County Board of Commissioners;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the City of Southport Board of Aldermen
hereby fully encourage and support the Brunswick County Board of Commissioners
in its efforts to secure a reasonable solution to the Smithville Township
property tax issue; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the City of Southport hereby agree to fully
participate as a partner with Brunswick County in efforts to secure a
reasonable solution to the Smithville Township property tax issue.
This the 14th day of June, 2007.
/s/ Norman R. Holden
Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, Clerk
City Manager will send a copy of resolution to Commissioner May Moore and
ascertain their next move.
XVII.
Other Business
City Manager Gandy made reference an editorial written in the Wilmington Star
with a misleading headline “Southport Secret Meeting Cheats Public.” The
meeting was not called by the City of Southport, it was a tax meeting held by
Brunswick County representatives and their legal department determined whether
it should be an open meeting without consulting city staff. He has attempted to
contact the editorial staff at the Wilmington Star, but has not received a
response. Alderman Callari agreed that the Star News owe the City an apology.
She stated her elation by seeing people downtown on Wednesdays at the Farmer’s
Market.
Alderman Fisher stated Progress Energy is asking the Utilities Commission for a
rate increase of $1.29, but the City of Southport rates will not change because
of a set contract in place. A public meeting will be held on June 19 at the
Progress Energy Visitor’s Center to discuss the tritinium that was identified
in the water.
Parking Committee met and received favorable comments on the new style of two
hour parking signs and they will be placed along Moore Street within the near
future.
A letter was directed to the Southport Post Master concerning postal employees
parking in parking spaces designated for the public and asks that they park in
other areas.
The Parking Committee discussed combining the new Traffic Committee with the
Parking Committee because functions are similar and it will be more efficient
to have one committee.
Parking Committee recommends that a yellow line be painted on Short Street to
emphasize where to stop and to make it more evident for traffic.
Alderman Fisher complimented staff on preparing the City for the Fourth of July
and the Farmer’s Market.
Rescue Squad – Mayor Holden stated that he received a letter from Mayor Shelly
Lesher of St. James with reference to one of the Southport Rescue Squad members
speeding through the town, disregarded posted speed limits and instructions
from Security to stop. Because of this action, he requested the City Manager to
direct Chief Drew to relieve the young man of his duties immediately, and if
she does not follow through with this action, he will then request the City
Manager to remove her as Rescue Chief. Once the budget has been adopted, he
requested the City Manager and the County EMS meet to begin negotiations to
place the City Rescue Squad under the County EMS. He stated that citizens are
being double taxed; this is evidenced by the Rescue Squad budget and the amount
of taxes being paid to the county. Mayor Holden stated he is ashamed of what is
happening with the Rescue Squad and believes the City is running a nursery
school and strongly suggest that the City go with the County. He referenced the
recommendation submitted by the City Manager several years ago, recommending
this action. He believes the response time will be quicker and City can save
money. He vowed to stay involved until the City and County Rescue Squad is
merged.
XVIII.
Adjournment
No further business, the meeting was adjourned upon motion of Alderman Childs,
seconded by Alderman Brown, vote carried.
_____________________________
Norman R. Holden, Mayor
_________________________
Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
JUNE 28, 2007
BUDGET PUBLIC HEARING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN BUDGET PUBLIC HEARING
JUNE 28, 2007     6:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Norman R. Holden, Mayor
            Aldermen Stuart Callari, James Brown, Paul Fisher
            Meezie Childs (6:25 p.m.)
ABSENT:         Nelson Adams
STAFF PRESENT:      Rob Gandy, City Manager
            Regina Alexander, CMC-City Clerk
            Patty Miller, Finance Director
            Chad Hicks, City Planner
            Bob Grant, Public Services Director
I.
Call to Order
Mayor Holden called the meeting to order at 6:05 p.m.
II.
Public Hearing on FY 07-08 City Operating Budget
Mayor Holden called for motion to enter Public Hearing on the City Operating
Budget for Fiscal Year 2007-2008 pursuant to notice duly advertised and posted.
Alderman Powell moved to enter Public Hearing, seconded by Alderman Fisher,
vote carried.
There were no public comments on the proposed operating budget for FY 07/08.
City Manager Gandy stated in the absence of Alderman Adams, that he had spoken
with him and he was satisfied with the budget.
Alderman Powell moved to closed the Hearing and to re-enter regular session,
seconded by Alderman Callari, vote carried.
III.
Adoption of FY 2007-2008 City Operating Budget
Alderman Fisher moved to adopt the budget ordinance for FY 07/08, seconded by
Alderman Brown, the vote of approval was unanimous. (Budget Ordinance
Incorporated as Attachment No. 1)
Mayor Holden and Board members thanked staff for an excellent job on the budget
with a tax rate of $.15
IV.
Budget Amendments
City Manager presented end of the year budget amendments to balance accounts.
Alderman Brown moved to approve budget amendments #’s 31, 32 and 33, seconded
by Alderman Powell, vote carried.
Budget Amendment #31
Fiscal Year 2006-2007
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in special session June 28, 2007, that the following Budget Amendment
be adopted for transferring budgeted amounts from one line item to anther
within the same department. There will be no change in the budget as amended.
General Fund
                               Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section I
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
      Board              0.00
      Administration     0.00
      Buildings & Grounds0.00
      Garage             0.00
      Police             0.00
      Fire Dept.         0.00
      Code Enforcement   0.00
      Rescue             0.00
      Street             0.00
      Parks & Rec        0.00
      Tourism            0.00
                               0.00
 
ADOPTED this the 28th day of June, 2007
/s/Mayor Norman Holden 
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk to the Board of Aldermen
Budget Amendment #32
Fiscal Year 2006-2007
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in special session June 28, 2007, that the following Budget Amendment
be adopted for transferring budgeted amounts from one line item to anther
within the same department. There will be no change in the budget as amended.
 
Electric Fund
                               Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section IV
B.   Appropriated Expenditur0.00             0.00
 
ADOPTED this the 28th day of June, 2007
/s/ Mayor Norman Holden 
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk to the Board
Budget Amendment #33
Fiscal Year 2006-2007
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in special session June 28, 2007, that the following Budget Amendment
be adopted for transferring budgeted amounts from one line item to anther
within the same department. There will be no change in the budget as amended.
 
Water/Sewer Fund
                               Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section V
B.   Appropriated Expenditur0.00             0.00
 
ADOPTED this the 28th day of June, 2007
/s/Mayor Norman Holden 
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk to the Board of Aldermen
V.
Dosher Hospital Tax - Discussion
Mayor informed the Board that he talked with Commissioner Moore about Dosher
Hospital and the requested tax reduction. He asked Alderman Fisher to comment
on his conversation with Commissioner Moore.
Alderman Fisher stated that on June 28, 2007, May Moore, County Commissioner
called him to ask for a position from the city regarding the Dosher Hospital
tax. The County Commissioners and the municipalities in Smithville Township
proposed on June 26, 2007 to Dosher Hospital Board that the current tax be
reduced from $.04 to $.02 (cents). Commissioner Moore advised him that the
Chairman of the Hospital Board (Sizemore) made a counter offer to reduce from
$.04 to .03 (cents) Commissioner Moore wanted to know Southport’s position
regarding this proposal. He stated she was of the opinion that the $.02 cents
is appropriate to service the bond and to keep Dosher Hospital an excellent
care facility. Alderman Fisher stated it is his belief that the Board should
continue to support cutting the tax by $ .02 (cents). He stated that Alderman
Adams supports the $ .02 tax cut.
Today (later) June 28, 2007, Commissioner Moore called to say that the Hospital
Board in an emergency meeting had withdrawn their offer to negotiate the rate
from $.04 to .03. Alderman Fisher motioned that the Board of Aldermen supports
the County Commissioners and recommend a referendum in November to cut the tax
rate from $.04 to .02. Alderman Powell seconded the motion and the vote of
approval was unanimous.
Alderman Fisher also complimented staff on an excellent budget that meet the
needs of the city in addition to reducing the tax rate below revenue neutral
and retaining a fund balance, and he stated his pleasure at being able to give
city employees a 5% across the Board cost of living, where most cities only
give 2 to 3%.
He asked that the City watch the CAMA Grant for Fort Johnston, and in the event
the City does not receive the grant, funds (budgeted) be allocated to other
projects.
VI.
Southport Rescue Squad
Mayor Holden stated that the City has had problems with the Rescue Squad over a
period of time and he referred to a proposal presented by the City Manager in
2003, asking Brunswick County EMS to provide options for the provision of
emergency services within the City of Southport, however since this time the
figures have changed. He asked the City Manager to contact Mr. Randy Thompson
of Brunswick Emergency Services to schedule a meeting with Aldermen Callari,
Powell, City Manager and himself and to invite the Rescue Chief. He stated it
is his belief that rescue services can be combined and bring the level of
services up by being as progressive as other municipalities who have gone under
the County EMS; this will save monies and increase the response time.
Alderman Callari stated the Board a few years ago recommended that the
Southport Rescue Squad become self sufficient, and this has not been
accomplished.
VII.
Adjournment
Alderman Childs moved to adjourn, seconded by Alderman Brown, vote carried.
__________________________
/s/ Norman R. Holden, Mayor
______________________________
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, CMC
Clerk
JULY 12, 2007
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
JULY 12, 2007     7:30 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, N. C.
 
PRESENT:         Norman R. Holden, Mayor
            James Brown, Mayor Pro Tem
            Aldermen Nelson E. Adams, Mary “Meezie” Childs, Paul Fisher,
            James Powell and Mary “Stuart” Callari
STAFF:         Rob Gandy, City Manager
            Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
            Regina W. Alexander, CMC-City Clerk
            Chad Hicks, City Planner
I.
Call To Order – 7:30 p.m.
Mayor Holden called the meeting to order at 7:35 p.m.
II.
Invocation
Mayor Pro Tem Brown delivered the invocation.
III.
Approval of Minutes
Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Fisher to approve the regular
meeting minutes of July 14 and Special Meeting Minutes of June 28, 2007, vote
of approval was unanimous.
IV.
Petitions from the floor
There were no petitions from the floor.
V.
Administrative Matters
Review and approval of amendment to the existing contract between the City of
Southport and W. K. Dickson authorizing additional hydrology analysis of the
City’s spray field area.
In memo to the Board from Bob Grant, Public Utilities Director, he asked that
the Board consider approval of a request to amend the contract with W. K.
Dickson for the Phase II Wastewater Master Plan. If approved, this will
authorize additional work by the hydrologist to analyze the city’s effluent
management site off Sunny Point Road for rapid infiltration, which involves the
use of ponds to contain and allow for the effluent infiltration. This is an
alternative concept to utilize the site other than an irrigated crop management
site. Mr. Hubard had previously recommended that the city analyze the site’s
potential for an alternative technology. Alderman Fisher stated that the
Wastewater Committee recommends approval of the contract amendment. He then
moved to approve the amendment to the existing contract between the City of
Southport and W. K. Dickson authorizing additional hydrology analysis of the
city’s spray field area. Alderman Powell seconded the motion and the vote of
approval was unanimous. (Copy of Contract Amendment on file in the Clerk’s
Office, Finance and Public Utility Department)
VI.
Review and approval of yearly contract for auditing services between the City
of Southport, Brock, Berry, Padgett and Chandler, PLLC
The City Manager requested this matter be tabled until Minton Padgett finalizes
the audit contract.
VII.
Review of plats and request for lot depth exception for Cottage Point, Phase
III, Lots 48-51; Preliminary and final plat approval
Mr. Hicks explained that the Unified Development Ordinance allows a variance to
be granted by the Board of Aldermen for required recreation areas and lot depth
requirements. Roy Pender, the Developer of Cottage Point asked the Board to
accept a fee in lieu of the required recreation area for the appraised amount
of $15,700 due to the lack of useable space on lots 48-51. He also requested an
exception on the required lot depth of lot 48. Mr. Hicks stated that the
Planning Board recommended these exceptions and preliminary plat approval. The
developer has also asked that the plat be given preliminary and final approval.
Mr. Hicks stated the only requirement is bond submission to cover installation
costs of the infrastructure.
City Manager Gandy recommended the $15,700 fee in lieu of the required
recreation area be applied towards development of Lowe-White Park if approved
by the Board.
Alderman Childs moved to approve the lot depth and recreation area exceptions
for Cottage Point, Phase III, Lots 48-51, and approval of the preliminary and
final plat contingent upon all bond requirements being met. Alderman Powell
seconded the motion, the vote of approval was unanimous.
VIII.
Review of Resolution fixing date of Public Hearing on the question of
contiguous annexation pursuant to G. S. 160A-31 (Greg & Delores White- Peacock,
Newnam & White Funeral Home)
Alderman Callari moved, seconded by Alderman Fisher to approve the following
resolution fixing the date for a public hearing on a request for contiguous
annexation by Greg & Delores White, owner of Peacock, Newnan and White Funeral
Home and Crematorium.
RESOLUTION FIXING DATE OF PUBLIC HEARING ON QUESTION OF CONTIGUOUS ANNEXATION
PURSUANT TO G.S. 160A-31
WHEREAS, a petition requesting annexation of the contiguous area described
herein has been received; and
WHEREAS, the City of Southport Board of Aldermen has by resolution directed the
City Clerk to investigate the sufficiency of the petition; and
WHEREAS, certification by the City Clerk as to the sufficiency of the petition
has been made;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport, North Carolina that:
Section 1.  A public hearing on the question of annexation of the contiguous
area described herein will be held at Southport City Hall at 7:30 p.m. on
August 14, 2007.
Section 2. The area proposed for annexation is described as follows:
BEGINNING at an iron pipe on the western line of Howe Street, said pipe being
located 100.53 feet in a northern direction along said right of way line from
the intersection of said line with Fourteenth Street; from said beginning point
thus located run thence South 69 degrees 39 minutes 04 seconds West 338.32 feet
to an iron pipe; thence continue the same course 245.65 feet to an iron stake
set; run thence North 20 degrees 51 minutes 45 seconds West 194.43 feet to an
existing re-bar; run thence North 69 degrees 09 minutes 00 seconds East 245.28
feet to an existing re-bar; run thence South 20 degrees 55 minutes 47 seconds
East 49.94 feet to an existing re-bar; run thence North 69 degrees 05 minutes19
seconds East 338.71 feet to an existing re-bar located in the western line of
Howe Street; run thence with the western line of Howe Street South 20 degrees
49 minutes 24 seconds East 149.96 feet to an existing iron pipe, the point and
place of beginning, containing 2.25 acres.
Section 3. Notice of public hearing shall be published once in the State Port
Pilot, a newspaper having general circulation in the City of Southport at least
ten (10) days prior to the date of the public hearing.
Adopted this the 12th day of July 2007.
/s/Norman R. Holden, Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, Clerk
IX.
Review and approval of a Resolution Honoring the Cape Fear River Pilots and
proclaiming Saturday, August 18, 2007 as “Cape Fear River Pilots Day” in the
City of Southport.
Alderman Childs moved, seconded by Alderman Powell to adopt the following
Resolution honoring the Cape Fear River Pilots and proclaiming Saturday, August
18, 2007 as “Cape Fear River Pilots Day” in the City of Southport.  The vote of
approval was unanimous.
RESOLUTION IN HONOR OF THE CAPE FEAR RIVER PILOTS
WHEREAS, the City of Southport and the Southport Historical Society have joined
together to honor all our Cape Fear River Pilots, both past and present and;
WHEREAS, Saturday, August 18, 2007 has been selected as the day to honor those
in this profession and the men who carry out the commission of the Cape Fear
River Pilot’s Association “ To make certain that the passage of ships between
the Atlantic Ocean and Sunny Point or Wilmington via the Cape Fear River is
safe and expeditious” and;
WHEREAS, on this day, the River Pilots who went to sea and returned no more
will also be properly honored and will be foremost on the minds of all that
knew and loved them.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the City of Southport Board of Aldermen that
they hereby proclaim Saturday, August 18, 2007 as “Cape Fear River Pilots Day”
in the City of Southport and ask that our citizens join in the festivities of
this day that will include a ceremony at Fort Johnston, tours of the Pilot
Boat, a memorial service at the Lost Pilots Monument and an exhibit at Fort
Johnston.
DULY RESOLVED THIS THE 12TH DAY OF JULY, 2007
/s/ Norman R. Holden
Mayor
X.
Meeting Date Change
The Board voted to change the regular meeting date of August 9 to August 14,
2007, 7:30 p.m. due to conflicts i.e. the ElectriCities Annual Conference.
Motion made by Alderman Childs, seconded by Alderman Brown, vote carried.
XI.
Other Business
City Manager Gandy announced that the issue regarding Smithville-Township
Hospital tax would be discussed at the County Commissioner’s meeting on July
16, at 6:30 p.m.
XII.
Other Comments
Mr. Gandy stated that there has been some misunderstanding about public use of
boat ramps at the marina. He announced that the ramps are and have always been
open to the public.
Members of the Board complimented City staff on an outstanding job cleaning and
preparing the city for the 4th of July including the clean up afterwards.
Alderman Fisher for information and review presented a list of resolutions
approved at the American Public Power Association Conference that he attended
in San Antonio, Texas, June 23-27. As Chairman of the North Carolina Eastern
Municipal Power Agency, he was a voting delegate at the Conference. He
requested the Board review resolutions R07-01, R07-02 and R07-6 and R07-14. A
copy of it will be kept on file for future reference. Attached also was
Progress Energy’s plan for future generation.
Alderman Adams thanked the City Manager for addressing the pedestrian issue
downtown and noted the installation of the walk and no walk signs being
installed.
XIII.
Executive Session– 6:58 P.M.
Alderman Childs moved that the Board go into closed session for the purpose of
instructing the City staff and City Attorney concerning the position to be
taken by or on behalf of the Board in negotiating the price and other material
terms of a proposed contract for the acquisition by purchase of land owned by
several of the Cape Fear Trading Groups bounded by Bay Street, Yacht Basin
Drive, Moore Street and South Caswell Avenue. Alderman Brown seconded the
motion and the vote of approval was unanimous.
Regular Session Reconvened
Mayor Holden announced for the benefit of the press and public, that the Board
discussed property acquisition and authorized staff to negotiate on the City’s
behalf.
(Executive Minutes will remain sealed until public inspection will no longer
frustrate the purpose of the closed session)
XIV.
Adjournment
Alderman Childs moved to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Alderman Brown, vote
carried.
___________________
Norman R. Holden
Mayor
_______________________
Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
Executive Session
Executive Session Minutes
Alderman Childs informed the Board that she had been approached by citizens
concerning the City acquiring property from Cape Fear Trading Group and
exploring the option to determine whether they would be interested in selling.
Attorney Isenberg stated that Cape Fear Trading Company consists of several
Limited Liability Corporations (LLC’s), and he will contact their Attorney to
ascertain whether their client is interested in selling any of the property and
if so; the City is interested. Attorney Isenberg stated that if the City were
to acquire any of the land, outstanding mortgages would have to be paid.
Alderman Fisher asked about the Steven’s Park property, and if the lawsuits
against Cape Fear Trading would have any impact on the City and the park
property. Attorney Isenberg stated that Steven’s Park property belongs to the
City, the deed is recorded and on file.
No further discussion, Alderman Childs moved, seconded by Alderman Brown to
authorize the City Attorney to contact Cape Fear Trading Group’s Attorney to
ascertain whether they want to sell any of their property. The vote of approval
was unanimous.
Alderman Childs moved to re-enter regular session at 8:15 p.m., seconded by
Alderman Powell. The vote carried.
______________________________
Mayor
_______________________
City Clerk, CMC
AUGUST 14, 2007
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
AUGUST 14, 2007   7:30 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, NC
 
PRESENT:         Mayor Norman Holden
            Aldermen Nelson Adams, Meezie Childs, Jim Powell, James Brown
            and Paul Fisher
ABSENT:         Alderman Stuart Callari
STAFF:         Rob Gandy, City Manager
            Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
            Regina W. Alexander, City Clerk
            Chad Hicks, Planner
I.
Call to Order
Mayor Holden called the meeting of the Southport Board of Aldermen to order at
7:32 p.m.
II.
Invocation
Mayor Pro Tem Brown delivered the invocation.
III.
Approval of Minutes
Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Fisher to approve the regular
meeting and executive session minutes of July 12, 2007, the vote carried.
IV.
Citizen Matters
There were no petitions from the floor.
V.
Public Hearing on request by Cameron Smith to rezone a 33-foot portion of
parcel #238GA023, 708 East Moore Street from R-10 (residential) to BD (business
district).
Alderman Childs moved to enter public hearing on the rezoning request, seconded
by Alderman Brown, vote carried.
Mr. Chad Hicks, City Planner presented a request from Mr. Cameron Smith to
rezone a portion of a 33-foot strip on Moore Street that currently borders
property that is zoned business district (BD). The property in question is
zoned R-10. Mr. Smith has requested that 33 feet be subtracted from R-10 and
added to BD. (Business District)
Mr. John Barbee, 712 E. Moore Street stated the property in question has been
zoned residential for approximately 50 years and the City’s Land Use Plan shows
the property as residential and stated he does not see the need to expand the
business district.
Mr. Dana Stutz, 703 East Moore Street stated his concerns about the amount of
traffic flow and the type of business Mr. Smith is proposing.
Mr. Chad Hicks, City Planner, stated the property in that locale is currently
zoned R-10 (residential) and BD (business district). The extension would give
them 33 foot more in the BD (business district). The Planning Board recommended
the property be rezoned, however, the future Land Use Plan has the entire area
zoned residential including the area that is presently zoned commercial.
No further comments, Alderman Childs moved to re-enter regular session,
seconded by Alderman Powell. Vote carried.
Alderman Adams stated that 145 feet of the property is zoned business, and he
posed a question asking how would rezoning a 33’ strip allow the developer to
do anymore with 33 ft than he can with the 145 feet lot.
Mr. Cameron Smith of Harbor Oaks explained that he currently has two
residential lots which are odd shaped and as a result, unable to sell. He
wishes to convert it back to one lot, which will be 100 feet wide on the road
frontage and 70 feet on the river. He is proposing to take the 33-foot strip,
which was originally access for the second lot, and use it with what he already
has which will make it a 100 x 70 lot.
Alderman Fisher stated that Mr. Smith has always done a credible job with his
projects; however, he is concerned bout the business district closing in on
residential. If rezoned to Business District. The UDO provides for 150
permitted uses for the lot in question. However, there are many uses in that
provision he does not believe should be included and it needs to be changed to
Conditional Use so that the Board can view what is going to be constructed. He
stated if the property was sold and did not violate the rules, the Board would
have no reason for rejection. He moved to deny the rezoning request, seconded
by Alderman Adams. The vote of approval was unanimous. Alderman Fisher asked
that the Planning Board review this matter between commercial and residential,
and present a recommendation to the Board.
VI.
Public Hearing on Unified Development Ordinance text change to Article I
“General Provisions” Section 1-12 “Final Plans required prior to staff or
Planning Board approval” by adding “In order to protect the welfare and safety
of the citizens of Southport prior to approval of any plan by staff or planning
board, all plans and documents must be final and ready for actual construction.
All engineering, survey, building, and civil plans must include a signed and
dated seal from a professional registered in North Carolina to be considered
for final approval. Each drawing sheet must contain the note “100% construction
documents” in the title block”
Alderman Fisher moved to enter Public Hearing to receive public comments on the
text change to the UDO, seconded by Alderman Brown, vote carried.
Mr. Hicks stated staff has reviewed several planned building group applications
and staff consistently has to explain the requirements to developers.
Therefore, staff is proposing to strengthen procedures requiring everything on
the plan to be in place and stamped by an architect or engineer before
approval.
There were no public comments. Alderman Childs moved to close the Public
Hearing and re-enter regular session, seconded by Alderman Brown, vote
unanimous.
Alderman Childs moved to adopt the text change to Article I “General
Provisions” Section 1-12 “Final Plans required prior to staff or Planning Board
approval” by adding “In order to protect the welfare and safety of the citizens
of Southport prior to approval of any plan by staff or planning board, all
plans and documents must be final and ready for actual construction. All
engineering, survey, building, and civil plans must include a signed and dated
seal from a professional registered in North Carolina to be considered for
final approval. Each drawing sheet must contain the note “100% construction
documents” in the title block”. Motion seconded by Alderman Brown, vote
unanimous.
VII.
Public Hearing on Unified Development Ordinance text change to Article 13
“Planned Building Group Regulation” by adding a Planned Building Group Required
Information Checklist
Alderman Childs moved, seconded by Alderman Brown to enter public hearing to
receive comments on the proposed text change to Article 13, Planned Building
Group. Vote unanimous.
Mr. Hicks explained the proposed language change would place a checklist in the
UDO, which is a detailed list of requirements for developers.
There were no public comments.
Alderman Childs moved to close the Public Hearing and re-enter regular session,
seconded by Alderman Powell, vote unanimous.
Alderman Brown moved to approve the text change to Article 13 “Planned Building
Group Regulation” by adding a Planned Building Group Required Information
Checklist, seconded by Alderman Childs, vote unanimous.
VIII.
Public Hearing on the question of contiguous annexation pursuant to G.S. 160A-
31 (Peacock, Newnam, and White Funeral Home/Crematorium)
Alderman Brown moved to enter Public Hearing on the annexation request,
seconded by Alderman Childs, vote unanimous.
There were no public comments.
Alderman Childs moved to close the Public Hearing and re-enter regular session,
seconded by Alderman Adams, vote unanimous.
Alderman Powell moved to approve the annexation ordinance for contiguous
annexation, seconded by Alderman Adams, vote unanimous.
AN ORDINANCE TO EXTEND THE CORPORATE LIMITS OF THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT, NORTH
CAROLINA
(Contiguous)
WHEREAS, the City of Southport has been petitioned under G.S.160A-31 to annex
the area described below; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen has by resolution directed the City Clerk to
investigate the sufficiency of the petition; and
WHEREAS, the City Clerk has certified the sufficiency of the petition and a
public hearing on the question of this annexation was held at Southport City
Hall at 7:30 p.m. on August 14, 2007, after due notice by publication in the
State Port Pilot on August 1 and 8, 2007; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen finds that the petition meets the requirements
of G.S. 160A-31:
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of Southport, North
Carolina that:
Section 1. By virtue of the authority granted by G.S. 160A-31, the following
described territory is hereby annexed and made part of the City of Southport
effective immediately:
SEE EXHIBIT A
Section 2. Upon and after August 14, 2007 the above described territory and its
citizens and property shall be subject to all debts, laws, ordinances and
regulations in force in the City of Southport and shall be entitled to the same
privileges and benefits as other parts of the City of Southport. Said territory
shall be subject to municipal taxes according to G.S. 160A-58.10.
Section 3.  The Mayor of the City of Southport shall cause to be recorded in
the office of the Register of Deeds of Brunswick County, and in the office of
the Secretary of State at Raleigh, North Carolina, an accurate map of the
annexed territory, described in Section 1 above, together with a duly certified
copy of this ordinance. Such a map shall also be delivered to the County Board
of Elections, as required by G. S. 163-288.1.
City of Southport
BY:
/s/ Norman R. Holden, Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, CMC
Clerk
EXHIBIT A
BEGINNING at an iron pipe on the western line of Howe Street, said pipe being
located 100.53 feet in a northern direction along said right of way line from
the intersection of said line with Fourteenth Street; from said beginning point
thus located run thence South 69 degrees 39 minutes 04 seconds West 338.32 feet
to an iron pipe; thence continue the same course 245.65 feet to an iron stake
set; run thence North 20 degrees 51 minutes 45 seconds West 194.43 feet to an
existing re-bar; run thence North 69 degrees 09 minutes 00 seconds East 245.28
feet to an existing re-bar; run thence South 20 degrees 55 minutes 47 seconds
East 49.94 feet to an existing re-bar; run thence North 69 degrees 05 minutes19
seconds East 338.71 feet to an existing re-bar located in the western line of
Howe Street; run thence with the western line of Howe Street South 20 degrees
49 minutes 24 seconds East 149.96 feet to an existing iron pipe, the point and
place of beginning, containing 2.25 acres.
This being the same property as shown on a plat entitled “Area Annexed by the
City of Southport N.C. on August 14, 2007 recorded in Map Cabinet ___ at Page
___ of the Brunswick County Registry.
IX.
Review of agreement between the City of Southport and Greene Transportation
Services for preparation of NC 211 (Howe Street) corridor study
Mr. Hicks stated the Traffic Committee interviewed several engineers to perform
a traffic study for the city. Greene Transportation Services (Crystal Greene)
was recommended. at a cost $11,300, but the committee is recommending $15,000
which will provide monies in reserve for traffic studies for developments if
the need arise, and the necessary funds to add to the scope of the study, if
required. The proposed study includes an analysis of Moore Street, 9th Street,
River Road, pedestrian access points, and traffic on major corridors. A public
meeting will be held in September.
Alderman Adams stated it his belief that developers should pay the cost of
their own traffic studies. Mr. Hicks explained that the engineer would be used
as an in-house consultant if the need arise to review the developer’s traffic
studies to insure that they are compliant.
Alderman Childs moved to approve the agreement between the City of Southport
and Greene Transportation Services for preparation of NC 211 (Howe Street)
corridor study for $15,000, seconded by Alderman Brown. The vote of approval
was unanimous.
(Agreement on file in office of the Clerk)
X.
Review of concession agreement between the City of Southport and the Southport
Historical Society for use of certain space at Fort Johnston
Alderman Childs asked that the Board review the draft document and offer
comments to herself or Chad Hicks.
Alderman Fisher stated concerns about the flat fee for utilities. He stated
since the Historical Society plans to install their own air conditioning unit,
he recommends that this be changed to read “a flat fee until that section
belonging to the SHS is metered,” and they will pay their own utilities.
Alderman Adams stated his concern over the amount of space for storage and
believes it will be defeating the purpose of the building’s use if space is
delegated for storage.
XI.
Review and approval of purchase price and financing for new F250 Ford Truck for
the Buildings and Grounds Department.
The following bids were received:   Jones Ford      $16,825
               Capital Ford       $16,403
               Fairway Ford      $16,283
Bids for Financing term of 3 years:   First Citizens Bank   3.82%
               BB&T         4.02%
               RBC Centura      5.98% w/$100 fee
               Waccamaw Bank   4.95%
In memo to the Board, the Finance Officer stated staff from the City Garage
requested the board approve the bid with Jones Ford. The price is higher by
$542, but it is more convenient because of their location and the established
working relationship with the City. Attorney Isenberg stated if the Board
accepts the higher bid, the Board needs to establish a reason why the lower bid
was rejected. 
Alderman Powell moved to accept the bid with Jones Ford for $16,825 because of
their proximity to the City of Southport and established relationship for
repair work and to approve financing with First Citizens Bank at 3.82% for
three years. Motion seconded by Alderman Fisher, vote unanimous.
XII.
Review of yearly contract for auditing services between the City of Southport,
Brock, Padgett, and Chandler, PLLC
Alderman Fisher moved to approve the yearly contract for auditing services with
Brock, Padgett and Chandler, seconded by Alderman Childs, the vote of approval
was unanimous. (Copy of Contract on file with Clerk and Finance Officer)
XIII.
Review and adoption of Order of Collection authorizing the Tax Collector to
collect taxes for FY 2007-2008
Alderman Fisher moved, seconded by Alderman Brown to adopt the Order of
Collection authorizing the Tax Collector to collect taxes for FY 2007-2008.
Vote unanimous.
Order of Collection
State of North Carolina
City of Southport
To the Tax Collector of the City of Southport
You are hereby authorized, empowered, and commanded to collect the taxes set
forth in the tax records filed in the office of the City of Southport and in
the tax receipts herewith delivered to you, in the amounts and from the
taxpayers likewise therein set forth. Such taxes are hereby declared to be
first lien upon all real property of the respective taxpayers in the City of
Southport, and this order shall be full and sufficient authority to direct,
require and enable you to levy on and sell any real or personal property of
such taxpayers, for and on account thereof, in accordance with law.
Witness my hand and official seal this the 14th day of August 2007.
/s/ Norman R. Holden
Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
XIV.
Appointment – Parks and Recreation Advisory Board
Alderman Adams motioned to appoint Stephanie Stiller to the Parks and
Recreation Advisory Board, seconded by Alderman Childs. Vote carried.
XV.
Reappointment – Board of Adjustment
Alderman Brown motioned to reappoint Kenneth Karn to the Southport Board of
Adjustments as an in-town alternate member to a one year term, seconded by
Alderman Childs, vote carried.
XVI.
Review of Resolution in support of the Cigarette Litter Prevention Program
Alderman Fisher moved to adopt the following resolution in support of the
Cigarette Litter Prevention Program, seconded by Alderman Brown, vote
unanimous.
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, Brunswick County and the City of Southport have laws against
littering, including cigarette litter defined as partially smoked cigarettes,
cigarette butts and filters, matches, lighters and packaging; and
WHEREAS, Keep Brunswick County Beautiful, an affiliate of Keep America
Beautiful, has enacted a vigorous program to reduce cigarette litter in our
community; and
WHEREAS, there is a general lack of public awareness that cigarette butts are
litter; and
WHEREAS, there is a legitimate concern that cigarette litter, because of its
size and light weight, is often carried with storm water runoff into our local
surface waters, thus polluting our environment; and
WHEREAS, most cigarette filters are made of plastic cellulose acetate – which
is neither biodegradable nor digestible – lasts for many years and is often
consumed by wildlife which kills the bird, reptile, fish, and turtle eating it;
and
WHEREAS, the remaining tobacco in a discarded cigarette contains several
residual alkaloids, including nicotine, and, if consumed, poses a health hazard
to small children and animals; and
WHEREAS, smoldering cigarette litter increases the risk of fire; and
WHEREAS, the various community clean-up groups in our town find thousands of
cigarette butts at each periodic clean-up event.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the City of Southport Board of Aldermen goes on
record in support of the Cigarette Litter Prevention Program and urge our
citizens not to litter in any manner or form.
DULY RESOLVED THIS THE 14th DAY OF AUGUST 2007.
Attest: /s/ Regina W. Alexander, Clerk   /s/ Norman R. Holden, Mayor
XVII.
Tax Releases
Alderman Fisher moved, seconded by Alderman Brown to approve the following tax
releases, vote unanimous.
Name         Amt. Released   Value      Reason
Paul M. Swenson      51.70      18,190      Boat Destroyed 4 yrs ago
Yacht Bain Provision Co.   30.40      10,690      Boat kept in Mexico
The Board commended Mary Russ, Tax Collector for outstanding work.
XVIII.
Other Business
Alderman Childs posed a question about an annexation study. City Manager Gandy
stated that Chad Hicks, Planning Director wrote a letter to board members
explaining the annexation process and staff also contacted the Division of
Community Assistance. He asked Board members to provide their comments to Chad
Hicks, Planning Director if it is their wish to proceed with the study.
Alderman Childs stated the Town of Oak Island gave notice that they intend to
conduct an annexation study up to Dosher Cutoff, but there are parcels in that
area past the canal that are interested in being a part of Southport. She asked
if the City plans to conduct a study of the area in question. City Manager
Gandy stated the Town of Oak Island is only in the study phase and Dosher
Cutoff is not part of their study at this time. He explained in order for that
area to be included, the Town would have to adopt a resolution of
consideration, which has not been done.
Attorney Isenberg reported that Mayor Holden, City Manager Gandy, and he met
with George Roundtree III, who was appointed by the Superior Court Judge to be
the Receiver of the various Cape Fear Trading group companies. City
representatives informed them of the value of Steven’s Park to the City, and
they committed to do whatever it takes to have the ballparks ready by 2008.
They will also consider the Yacht Basin request and an easement to Price’s
Creek Lighthouse.
Alderman Childs referenced the storm drainage at the Yacht Basin. She asked if
the city could do anything within its legal realm to help alleviate the
drainage situation. Mayor Holden stated the grate needs to be welded down. City
Manager Gandy told the Board the grate is on private property, which is owned
by the Hysons’. Mr. Hyson has elevation information and the City could speak
with him to work out a solution. Alderman Powell stated the elevation was four
(4) because he looked at it when the water was high and the drain is not
functioning. He stated in discussion with the Public Works Director, new
construction will require screens to keep debris out. City Manager Gandy stated
he would contact Attorney Roundtree, Receiver for the company and get
permission to clean the drainage area out. Alderman Adams asked if CAMA
approval is required to open up the marsh end of the drain, but Alderman Powell
and staff concurred that it can be cleaned without entering the marsh.
Alderman Fisher reported on the ElectriCities annual meeting that he and
Alderman Powell attended. He reported on the briefings for disaster recovery
i.e. fire and records, chlorine spill, etc. He referenced articles in the
newspaper about Southport Electric rates and that the city’s rate is double
compared to other areas, which is not true and explained in detail the rate
concept.
Mayor Holden announced the reception that will be given by the Southport
Historical Society honoring River Boat Pilots, 9:00 a.m. on August 18 at the
Garrison House, Fort Johnston.
XIV.
Adjournment
No further business, meeting adjourned upon motion of Alderman Childs, seconded
by Alderman Brown, vote carried.
___________________________________
Norman R. Holden, Mayor
___________________________
Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
SEPTEMBER 13, 2007
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
SEPTEMBER 13, 2007 7:30 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor Norman Holden
            Aldermen Nelson Adams, Meezie Childs, James Powell,
            Stuart Callari, James Brown and Paul Fisher
ABSENT:         None
STAFF PRESENT:       Rob Gandy, City Manager
            Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
            Regina W. Alexander, City Clerk
            Chad Hicks, City Planner
I.
Call To Order - 7:35 p.m.
Mayor Holden called the meeting to order at 7:35 p.m.
II.
Invocation
Alderman Brown delivered the invocation.
III.
Approval of Minutes
Alderman Powell moved to approve the regular meeting minutes of August 14,
2007, seconded by Alderman Brown, vote carried.
IV.
Citizen Matters
There were no petitions from the floor.
V.
Public Hearing to receive public comments and to discuss the City of
Southport’s CAMA Core Land Use Plan
Alderman Brown moved to enter public hearing to receive public comments and
discuss the City of Southport’s CAMA Core Land Use Plan, seconded by Alderman
Childs, vote carried. 
Chad Hicks, Planning Director presented Mr. Dale Holland of Holland’s
Consulting Planners. Mr. Holland stated that the City had the plan for 30 days,
18 meetings were conducted, the Division of Coastal Management reviewed it, and
the Planning Board recommends approval of the Land Use Plan.
Mr. Marcus Smith of Bolivia stated he owns land in Southport and does not
believe that a sufficient amount of land is zoned multi-family.
There were no further comments from the public.
Mayor Holden asked if the Board was ready to vote on the plan. Alderman Fisher
requested additional time to review the Plan. Mr. Hicks stated the Board could
delay approval until October (next regular meeting) without having to
readvertise.
Mr. Holland told the Board that he does not agree with the way the plan is
written because some of the information is redundant, but the state is specific
on how the plans are to be written.
No further comments, Alderman Childs moved to close the hearing and re-enter
regular session, seconded by Alderman Callari, vote carried.
Alderman Callari moved, seconded by Alderman Adams to defer approval of the
CAMA Core Land Use Plan until October 11, the next regular scheduled meeting.
The vote was unanimous.
VI.
Public Hearing on Unified Development Ordinance text change to Article 17,
“construction signs” by changing the article to read, “Construction signs shall
be allowed provided such signs do not exceed one (1) sign per street frontage
with a maximum of two (2) signs per construction site. Such signs shall not
exceed thirty-two (32) square feet in area display face and no more than ten
(1) feet in height. Construction signs shall not be erected prior to the
issuance of a building permit and shall be removed within seven (7) days of the
issuance of a certificate of compliance.
Alderman Childs moved, seconded by Alderman Brown to enter public hearing to
receive public input on the text change to Article 17, construction signs. Vote
carried.
There were no public comments. Alderman Childs moved, seconded by Alderman
Powell to close the public hearing and to re-enter regular session, vote
carried.
Alderman Fisher moved, seconded by Alderman Powell to approve the text change
to Article 17, “construction signs” by changing the article to read,
“Construction signs shall be allowed provided such signs do not exceed one (1)
sign per street frontage with a maximum of two (2) signs per construction site.
Such signs shall not exceed thirty-two (32) square feet in area display face
and no more than ten (1) feet in height. Construction signs shall not be
erected prior to the issuance of a building permit and shall be removed within
seven (7) days of the issuance of a certificate of compliance. The vote of
approval was unanimous.
VII.
Review of natural gas franchise ordinance between the City of Southport and
Piedmont Natural Gas Company, Inc.
This item tabled until October. Mayor Holden requested Board members submit
their questions or concerns to the City Manager. Attorney Isenberg stated that
the ordinance must be voted on twice.
Alderman Adams recommended a workshop be held to discuss the proposed franchise
ordinance and its financial impact on the City. He then motioned to schedule
this for Wednesday, September 26, 5:00 p.m., seconded by Alderman Childs, vote
carried.
VIII.
Proposal for Sidewalk Plan
Mr. Hicks, City Planner, communicated that the Parking Committee recommended
that a sidewalk inventory and study be conducted. The study will include a
detailed inventory of existing sidewalks as well as a report on current
conditions and improvements that may be necessary to keep these sidewalks
useable. Mr. Dale Holland submitted a proposal for $6500 to complete the study
if approved by the Board. The Board agreed to direct Mr. Holland to apply for a
DOT Bicycle Access Grant.
After brief discussion about the grants and possible matching funds, Alderman
Fisher moved to approve the Sidewalk Study and to contract with Dale Holland
for $6500, seconded by Alderman Powell, vote unanimous.
Alderman Callari moved to direct the Planning Director to secure approval
through the Rural Planning Organization to apply for a Bicycle Access Grant.
Motion seconded by Alderman Brown, vote unanimous.
XIV.
Amendment to the City’s Cemetery Ordinance (Bond)
Mr. Strickland, Building Inspector per memo to the Board addressed concerns
about Northwood Cemetery. He communicated that some of the funeral homes are
using grave digging machines and he fear that they may disturb adjacent
gravesites. If this occurs, the city has no mechanism in place to recoup
damages to properties and recommended a $500 bond be imposed to assure that the
sites will be protected.
Mayor Holden suggested an agreement between the City and funeral homes be
written in order to protect each other. Alderman Adams talked about the
condition of the roads in Northwood Cemetery and people getting bogged down due
to the sandy conditions and the City needs to do something about the roads. He
stated that he asked Bob Grant, Public Services Director, to get proposal(s) on
the cost of paving the first two roads, and if need be, pave another next
fiscal year. The proposal totaled $21,350. Alderman Callari asked that the
excess sand from grave digging not be placed in the roads, which contributes to
the problem.
Alderman Fisher motioned, seconded by Alderman Child, to approve the $500 bond
and amend the ordinance as recommended by the Building Inspector. The vote was
unanimous.
Chapter 5
CEMETERIES
Sec. 5-1. Definitions.
Lot shall refer to the entire tract or piece of property purchased for the
purpose of burial consisting of one (1) or more individual plots or gravesites.
Plot shall refer to one (1) individual gravesite within a lot.
(Ord. of 12-3-91)
Sec. 5-2. Lot sales.
(a)   All sales of lots in city-owned cemeteries shall be made only by the city
at prices approved and set by the board of aldermen from time to time. All
persons desiring to purchase a lot in a city-owned cemetery shall apply to the
city cemetery superintendent who shall be authorized to issue a deed for said
lot upon payment of the purchase price therefore in full. Lots may be purchased
on installment plans approved by the board of aldermen. In the event that any
installment due under an installment plan remains unpaid for ninety (90) days
after the due date, the purchaser, without notice, shall forfeit all rights to
said lot and said lot shall be made available for sale by the city to another
party.
(b)   Resale of a lot in a city-owned cemetery is hereby prohibited except as
specifically provided herein. In the event that a person owning a cemetery lot
desires to relinquish ownership of the same, the person shall notify the city
cemetery superintendent and the city shall repurchase the cemetery lot at the
current price as set by the board of aldermen.
(c)   No interment or burial of a body or other disposition thereof, in a city-
owned cemetery, shall be made until the purchase price for the cemetery plot
has been paid in full.
(Ord. of 12-3-91)
Sec. 5-3. Permits.
No interment or burial of a body, or other disposition thereof, shall be made
in a city-owned cemetery until a permit is issued by the city. In applying for
a permit hereunder, the applicant shall furnish the city with the following
information concerning the deceased: name, date of death, home address,
birthplace, date of birth, next of kin, and address of next of kin.
(Ord. of 12-3-91)
Sec. 5-4. Time of interment.
All local and non-local funeral directors or other persons in charge of any
funeral shall be required to pay a ten dollar ($10.00) fee determined by the
Southport Board of Aldermen  to the city before a permit is issued for an
interment for Mondays through Fridays. Before a permit will be issued for an
interment on Saturdays, Sundays or legal holidays, the funeral director must
notify the City of Southport at least twenty-four (24) hours, or one (1)
working day, prior to the time of burial, or pay a seventy-five dollar ($75.00)
fee equal to three (3) times the regular fee  to reimburse the city for
overtime salaries and other costs incurred by the city in connection with
weekend interments. The city shall have an appropriate employee on call and
available every weekend for this service, if interment is allowed on Saturdays,
Sundays and legal holidays. (Ord. of 12-3-91)
Sec. 5-5. Record of interments and removals.
A complete record shall be maintained by the city of all interments,
disinterments and removals from any city-owned cemetery. The record shall give
the name of the cemetery, section, lot number, size and location of graves on
the lot, and the names of all persons buried on said lots. Records shall be
permanently preserved by the city.
(Ord. of 12-3-91)
Sec. 5-6. Opening of graves.
No grave within a city-owned cemetery shall be opened or otherwise disturbed
nor shall any body be removed from any grave without a permit from the county
health director and the consent of the lot owner and immediate family of the
deceased.
(Ord. of 12-3-91)
Sec. 5-7. Depth of graves.
All graves shall be dug at least four and one-half (4 1/2) feet in depth to the
pit. The width of graves above pit level shall be not less than four (4) inches
greater than the box width, on the side. All graves shall be made approximately
level with the lot and all extraneous material shall be removed from the lot
premises.
(Ord. of 12-3-91)
Sec. 5-8. Maintenance of lots.
No person shall place, or cause to be placed, on any lot in a city-owned or
city-operated cemetery, any stone or other object, other than an approved
marker or monument. Boundaries of all lots shall be marked by corners which
shall be set by the city at no additional cost to the lot owner. Mowing and
maintenance of the common areas of city-owned or city-operated cemeteries shall
be the responsibility of the city. The common are is hereby defined for
purposes of this section as all areas of said cemeteries other than those lots
or gravesites which have been sold or conveyed by the city, or registered to an
owner thereof in the city records, or in which interment or burial of a body
has taken place. As to these lots and gravesites, it shall be the
responsibility of the owners thereof to mow and maintain the same.
(Ord. of 12-3-91; Ord. of 11-13-03)
Sec. 5-9. Vaults or liners.
Due to the sandy soil conditions within the area, and the fact that markers
cannot be prevented from sinking or being covered by sand, vaults or liners
shall be required for all burials and interments in city-owned cemeteries.
(Ord. of 12-3-91)
Sec. 5-10. Removal of debris.
All materials and other debris shall be removed from a gravesite  and the
surrounding area raked and leveled  immediately upon completion of interment by
the funeral director. Dead flowers, tents, and other such items shall be
removed within three weeks of the burial. A bond of Five Hundred Dollars
($500.00) shall be required of all funeral directors and shall be refunded on
request after a final inspection by the City.  (Ord. of 12-3-91)
Sec. 5-11. Erection of foundations.
All foundations for monuments and footstones shall be erected and installed
under the supervision of the city cemetery superintendent and shall not be
erected without prior written approval from said city cemetery superintendent.
(Ord. of 12-3-91)
Sec. 5-11.1. Cremation.
(a)   Each lot in a city-owned or city-regulated cemetery which is used for the
burial of cremains shall be no less than three (3) feet by eight (8) feet in
size. Each lot may contain up to three (3) plots per gravesite for the burial
of cremains.
(b)   There shall be only one (1) above-ground monument for each lot used for
the burial of cremains which above-ground shall not be larger than twenty-four
(24) inches in width and sixty (60) inches in length.
(c)   Monuments marking individuals plots or gravesites within the lot shall
not exceed three (3) feet by two (2) feet and shall not extend above ground
level.
(d)   Cremation remains must be buried no less than three (3) feet in depth.
(Ord. of 9-14-00(1))
Sec. 5-12. Northwood cemetery.
The following regulations shall apply to Northwood Cemetery, Section G, and H
only:
(1)   Only one (1) family monument shall be permitted on any one (1) lot.
(2)   All monuments shall be set even with the property lines and shall not
extend over the property lines in any direction.
(3)   All foundations of monuments shall be no less than eight (8) inches in
depth and shall not rest on the liner cover.
(4)   All monuments shall not exceed twenty-four (24) inches in depth nor sixty
(60) inches in height.
(5)   For a single plot or single gravesite, monuments shall not exceed twenty-
four (24) inches in width.
(6)   For lots consisting of two (2) or three (3) plots, monuments shall not
exceed forty-eight (48) inches in width.
(7)   For lots consisting of four (4) plots, monuments shall not exceed sixty
(60) inches in width.
(8)   For lots consisting of five (5) or more plots, monuments shall not exceed
ninety (90) inches in width.
(9)   Footstones shall conform as to material with the material comprising the
monuments on the lot. Foundations for monuments and footstones shall be
composed of a hard course aggregate, sand and cement in proportions not less
than 1:3:5, and well-compacted in place. Foundations shall be at least as wide,
and as long as, the base stone of the monument with footstone resting upon it
and must not project above the lot surface.
(10)   The placing of glass vases on cemetery plots or lots is hereby
prohibited. In addition, the planting of flowers or shrubs, except at the plot
or lot corners, is hereby prohibited. Metal receptacles for cut flowers placed
within twelve (12) inches of the centerline of the marker and buried to allow
mowing are allowed and encouraged.
(11)   The placing of a coping or other enclosure around lots or plots is
hereby prohibited, except when the coping or enclosure is ground level and will
not interfere with maintenance of the cemetery.
(Ord. of 12-3-91)
Sec. 5-13. Violation; penalties.
In addition to being a misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. 14-4, the violation of this
chapter shall subject the offender to a civil penalty pursuant to section 1-6
(c) of this Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. of 12-3-91)
Sec. 5-14. Regulation of penalties.
(a)   All lots or squares properly registered or established within the City of
Southport Old Smithville Burying Ground prior to April 13, 1989 are hereby
recognized as valid by the city provided that (1) said lots, squares or
gravesites do not encroach upon any lot, square or gravesite registered or
established prior to the registration of said lot, square or gravesite and (2)
there are no remains or other evidence of burial whatsoever contained within
said lot, square or gravesite.
(b)   That each person or family claiming a lot, square or place of burial in
Old Smithville Burying Ground is responsible for having a qualified
professional archaeologist determine and certify to the city that no remains or
other evidence of burial are located within the desired lot or square. Said
qualified archaeologist shall obtain a permit from the city prior to
investigation. Such certification shall be made before issuance of a burial
permit or before December 31, 2000, whichever occurs sooner. This certification
shall be at the expense of the lot owner.
(c)   In the event that any lot, square or gravesite is determined to encroach
on a prior lot, square or gravesite, all encroachments shall be removed within
forty-five (45) days of such determination and notification by the city at the
sole expense of that party encroaching upon the other lot, square or gravesite.
(d)   No person shall be buried in Old Smithville Burying Ground unless a
burial permit is first obtained from the city and no burial permit shall be
issued prior to certification that said site is available as set forth herein.
(e)   All burials within Old Smithville Burying Ground shall comply with all
other applicable local or state statutes or ordinances.
(Ord. of 5-11-00(2), §§ 1--10; Ord. of 7-13-00, §§ 1--5; Ord. of 4-13-02, §§ 1-
-5)
Delete shown with stikeout
Changes in BOLD Type and Underline ( Amended at a Board of Aldermen Meeting
September 13, 2007)
Alderman Fisher noted that there are very few lots left in Northwood and once
these lots are sold, the city will be out of the cemetery business. He also
stated that he was contacted by an individual wanting to hold a Halloween Party
in Smithville Burying ground and he told the person that this was not allowed
and wanted to make the Board of aware. It was the consensus that the cemeteries
are sacred and the answer is no.
Alderman Powell moved seconded by Alderman Adams, to construct two roads in
Northwood Cemetery and to remove the posts, the vote of approval was unanimous.
City Gandy Manager stated that he would have the budget amendment available at
the October meeting.
X.
Department of Tourism – Randy Jones
Mr. Jones requested approval to hire a full time position of Facilities
Cleaning and Maintenance to better service the Community Building, Garrison
House and Visitor’s Center. He explained that three part time individuals are
currently providing this service, with one person coordinating the efforts of
all three. He stated the position would be reorganization by developing one
full time 40 hour a week position. This employee will be responsible for
cleaning, events set-up and general maintenance of all the locations
referenced. If approved, he will reposition an in-house position. Mr. Jones
told the Board that he met with the Finance Director and $19,000 remains in his
department part time salary line item. This request will require an additional
$5,000 budget amendment.
Alderman Fisher moved, seconded by Alderman Childs to approve the request to
authorize a full time Facilities Cleaning and Maintenance position for the
Department of Tourism. The vote was unanimous.
XI.
Budget Amendments
Alderman Fisher moved to approve budget amendments #1 and #2 upon
recommendation of the Finance Director, seconded by Alderman Brown, vote
carried.
Budget Amendment # 1
Fiscal Year 2007-2008
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session September 13, 2007, that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for revenues received from Insurance Recovery for damages
to Buildings & Grounds R/M and adjustment of line item accounts in the Fire
Department budget.
General Fund
                               Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section I
A.   Revenues Anticipated
      Insurance Recovery 286.17           4,860,594.17
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
      Buildings & Grounds286.17           4,860,594.17
      Fire Department
         Departmental 3000lies
         Uniform Suppl2000
         C/O Other Equ15000t
         Lease Payment(20,000)
 
ADOPTED this the 13th day of September, 2007
s/ Mayor Norman Holden 
Attest:
s/Regina W. Alexander
Clerk to the Board of Aldermen
Budget Amendment # 2
Fiscal Year 2007-2008
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session September 13, 2007, that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for adjustment of line item accounts in the Wastewater
Enhancement Capital Project. There is no change in the budget.
 
Wastewater Enhancement Capital Project Fund
                                            Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Appropriated Expenditures
   Wastewater Enhancement
      Per and Funding Assistance      35,000
      Construction                    (35,000)         1,777,974.74
 
ADOPTED this the 13th day of September, 2007
s/ Mayor Norman Holden 
Attest:
s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk to the Board of Aldermen
XII.
Other Business
Alderman Childs informed the Board that the concession agreement with the
Southport Historical Society is being reviewed by a solicitor with the Federal
Lands to Parks Program to insure that everything is in compliance. She also
referenced the acquisition of historical data the city acquired and the State
Department of Archives recommended the manner in which the material should be
preserved. City Manager Gandy and Jim McKee will transport the documents to
Etherington Conservation Services in Greensboro, N. C. for preservation.
TRINITY METHODIST CHURCH – OAK TREE
Alderman Powell addressed an article in the state port pilot referencing the
oak tree that was removed off Trinity Methodist Church property. He stated the
tree was located on church property, which was diseased and in bad shape. At
the recommendation of David Nash, the church hired Blue Ox Company to look at
the tree and they concluded that it needed to be roped off or removed. It was
agreed upon to take the tree out because of liability, and the proper
procedures were followed.
TAX COLLECTION RATE
Alderman Fisher complimented Mary Russ on a collection rate of 98.170%
DMV – DRIVERS LICENSE AGENCY
Mayor Holden told the Board that the Department of Transportation is proposing
to open a license plate agency in this area. He met with an organization that
may be interested in submitting an application to contract with DOT to operate
the agency. Additional information may be forthcoming later.
ADJOURNMENT – 8:45 P.M.
No further business, meeting adjourned upon motion of Alderman Childs, seconded
by Alderman Brown, vote carried.
_________________________________
/s/ Norman R. Holden, Mayor
_______________________________
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, CMC
Clerk
SEPTEMBER 26, 2007
SPECIAL MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
SEPTEMBER 26, 2007 5:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS  SOUTHPORT, NC
 
PRESENT:          James C. Brown, Mayor Pro Tempore’
            Aldermen Stuart Callari, Nelson Adams, Jim Powell and Paul Fisher
STAFF:         Regina W. Alexander, Clerk
            Mike Isenberg, Attorney
            Chad Hicks, Planning Director
            Bob Grant, Public Services Director
ABSENT:         Norman Holden, Mayor
            Meezie Childs, Alderman
            Rob Gandy, City Manager
Pursuant to notice duly advertised and posted, the Southport Board of Aldermen
met in special session on the above date to discuss a natural gas franchise
ordinance with piedmont natural gas and to explore options for land
acquisition.
I.
Call to Order
Mayor Pro Tem Brown called the meeting to order at 5:10 p.m.
Mr. R. L. Willoughby, Vice President of Power Services, attended the meeting at
the request of staff to consider a study to determine the financial and
operational impact Piedmont Natural Gas Ordinance would have on the city if a
franchise were granted. Board members voiced concerns that granting a natural
gas franchise would affect the city’s electric fund. Alderman Fisher stated $19
million is stilled owed on the current debt and the City needs to know the
implications natural gas would have on the electric sales i.e. tax receipts,
the company’s short and long range business plans and whether or not they will
seek new or existing customers.
Alderman Adams stated concerns about the company being selective with larger
customers. Some of the City questions have not been answered. The City could be
left with loss of electric sales.
Attorney Isenberg stated that he and the City Manager requested specific
language on certain aspects of the agreement, but to no avail.
Mr. Willoughby stated it appears the issue is loss in electric sales; his
company is prepared to assist the City. He presented the following primary
issues to be evaluated with an estimate range from $7,500 to $15,000.
1.   Piedmont business plan (what areas of the city will be served)
2.   Impact on electric sales
3.   Possible gross receipt tax implications
4.   Franchise language and
5.   Opportunities to utilize open trenching for other utilities for future
underground
6.   Evaluation of negotiated issues by city to date
7.   Enhancements to long-term municipal under grounding program and other
negotiated concessions available.
Alderman Adams questioned why hire a consultant until the Board can gauge
whether or not citizens want natural gas and suggested a Public Hearing.
Mayor Pro Tem Brown stated the city needs more than a financial study.
Attorney Isenberg stated that he and staff reviewed other franchises before
writing the draft for the city.
Mr. Willoughby stated once the scope of the work is defined, this would
determine the cost of the study.
Alderman Fisher told the Board that he requested funding from ElectriCities to
assist in financing the study.
The consensus of the Board was to hire Mr. Willoughby’s Company to: 1) review
Piedmont’s business plan, 2) the impact on electric sales and, 3) gross receipt
tax implications. Alderman Fisher motioned to contract with Power Services
Management for Utilities at a cost up to $7500 to study the three areas
specified, seconded by Alderman Callari. The votes were 4 ayes, Mayor Pro Tem
Brown, Aldermen Fisher, Callari and Powell. One no, Alderman Adams.
II.
Exploring Options for Land Acquisition (317 West Bay Street)
Mayor Pro Tem Brown asked the Board if they wished to pursue exploring options
to acquire land that is in foreclosure at 317 West Bay Street.
Alderman Callari motioned that the City pursue exploring options to acquire the
land at 317 West Bay Street, seconded by Alderman Fisher, vote carried.
Alderman Fisher stated the City could use the additional waterfront access and
possibly pursue some type of park through the state’s program. He told the
Board that he spoke with individuals about the possibility of buying the
property. He stated if an individual purchases the land, then the City could
negotiate the purchase for a tax write off.
Alderman Adams asked if much work and cost would be involved in making the land
suitable for a park or waterfront access. Mr. Grant stated he believes the land
is useful. Alderman Callari stated she walks by the property often and have not
seen standing water and it is worth pursuing.
Chad Hicks, Planner stated the tract in question is listed at $4 million and
the tax value is $2,278,400. The two lots combined have a road frontage of 243
feet.
EXECUTIVE SESSION – 5:50 P.M.
Alderman Fisher moved to enter closed session to instruct staff and the
Attorney on the terms and conditions to pursue property including cost and
other material terms of a proposal to acquire the real property known as 317
West Bay Street by purchase. Motion seconded by Alderman Callari, vote carried.
No further business, Alderman Powell moved to close the executive session and
re-enter regular session at 6:10 p.m.
(Executive Session Minutes will remained sealed until public inspection would
no longer frustrate the purpose of the closed meeting.)
REGULAR SESSION RECONVENED – 6:11 P.M.
In regular session, Mayor Pro Tem Brown announced for the benefit of the press
and public that the Board instructed staff as to the terms and conditions to
pursue property including cost and other material terms of a proposal to
acquire the real property known as 317 West Bay Street.
ADJOURNMENT
Alderman Childs moved to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Alderman Fisher, vote
carried
________________________________
/s/ James C. Brown, Mayor Pro Tempore’
________________________________
/s/Regina W. Alexander. CMC
City Clerk
SPECIAL MEETING
EXECUTIVE SESSION
 
SEPTEMBER 26, 2007 SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
 
EXECUTIVE SESSION
Attorney Isenberg told the Board that the City does not have to bid at the
auction because the City will have ten (10) days to submit an upset bid. The
City can bid upwards of 5% of the original bid amount to upset it, and in his
opinion, this is better for the City. He stated it would be in the best
interest of the City to send a staff representative to the auction and if need
be, call a Special Meeting. He explained that last bid will be accepted and the
bidder has ten (10) days to remit the money.
Alderman Fisher stated he requested the City Manager to ask the Finance
Director for a financial breakdown on obligated monies and the balance in the
general fund. He asked the Clerk to follow up on this since the Manager was on
vacation and to include the electric fund balance.
It was the consensus of the Board for the City Attorney to attend the auction
as the City’s representative.
There was no further business in closed session and the Board voted to re-enter
regular session.
________________________________
James C. Brown, Mayor Pro Tempore’
____________________________
Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
OCTOBER 11, 2007
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
OCTOBER 11, 2007  7:30 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, N. C.
 
PRESENT:         Norman R. Holden, Mayor
            Aldermen Nelson Adams, Meezie Childs, James Powell,
            Stuart Callari, Paul Fisher and James Brown
ABSENT:         None
STAFF PRESENT:       Rob Gandy, City Manager
            Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
            Regina W. Alexander, City Clerk
            Chad Hicks, City Planner
I.
Call to Order – 7:35 p.m.
Mayor Holden called the meeting to order at 7:35 p.m.
II.
Invocation
Alderman Brown delivered the invocation.
III.
Approval of Minutes
Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Callari to approve the regular
meeting minutes from September 13 and the special meeting minutes of September
26. The vote was unanimous.
IV.
Petitions from the floor (Non-Agenda Items)
There were no petitions from the floor.
Mayor Holden reported that during the Mayors meeting in August he was asked as
liaison with the N. C. Department of Transportation to assist in scheduling a
meeting with DOT representatives and municipal officials. Meeting was held and
those in attendance were: Mayor of Bald Head, POA President of BHI,
representative for the developer;, Lanny Wilson, DOT Board member, Allen Pope,
Division Engineer, the Director of the Southern end of the North Carolina Ferry
Division and his representatives. They discussed the possibility of changing
Bald Head or the State Ferry System schedule because both ferries were meeting
at the same time, which was causing a conflict. He requested that the state
look into the possibility of installing new turning lanes at the end of ferry
road or a stop light. He explained when Bald Head opens up its new marina;
there will be an excessive amount of traffic coming off ferry road. Mayor
Holden stated several years ago, the City wanted to direct the traffic to exit
to the east around the loop and come back to Jabbertown Road, but the downtown
merchants association wanted the ferry traffic business and the idea was
dismissed. It has been discussed with developers about paving Yaupon Avenue
Extension, which will re-route some of the traffic. The Captain of the Ferry
System during a meeting in Raleigh stated that they would consider the ferry
service. Mayor stated he does not believe that the State of North Carolina is
going to change the ferry schedule. His recommendation is that Bald Head Island
Ferry makes some adjustments. For information, Mayor reported that he has a
copy of Brunswick County’s Transportation Improvement Plan (TIP) and it is
available for review. He stated that he would continue as the liaison with DOT
and maintain the Governor’s Southeastern office after he leaves office as Mayor
in December.
V.
Adoption of the City’s CAMA Core Land Use Plan -Resolution
Mayor Holden announced that a Public Hearing was held during the September
meeting on the Land Use Plan. There being no comments from the Board, he called
for the vote. Alderman Powell moved to approve the CAMA Core Land Use Plan and
to adopt the following resolution, motion seconded by Alderman Callari. The
vote of approval was unanimous. Board members commended Mr. Holland on the Plan
and stated changes may need to be made periodically. In response to a question
by Mayor Holden, Mr. Holland stated the Plan should be updated every 6-7 years.
(Land Use Plan on file in the Office of City Planner)
RESOLUTION OF THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN OF THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT, NC ADOPTING THE
CITY’S CAMA CORE LAND USE PLAN
WHEREAS, the City’s CAMA Core Land Use Plan was financed in part through a
grant provided by the North Carolina Coastal Management Program through funds
provided by the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972, as amended, which is
administered by the Office of Ocean and Coastal Resource Management, National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration; and
WHEREAS, from July 1, 2004, through October 11, 2007, the City drafted a Land
Use Plan with the assistance of its consultant, Holland Consulting Planners,
Inc., and conducted a series of public workshops and meetings as part of a
comprehensive public participation program under the leadership of the CAMA
Land Use Plan Committee; and
WHEREAS, on July 19, 2007, the Planning Board recommended adoption of the draft
CAMA Core Land Use Plan; and
WHEREAS, at a duly advertised Regular Meeting on September 13, 2007, the Board
of Aldermen held a public hearing on the draft CAMA Core Land Use Plan; and
WHEREAS, at the Regular Meeting on September 13, 2007, the Board of Aldermen of
the City of Southport, North Carolina found the policies in the draft CAMA Core
Land Use Plan to be internally consistent; and
WHEREAS, at the Regular Meeting on September 13, 2007, the Board of Aldermen of
the City of Southport, North Carolina found the policies and Future Land Use
Map in the draft CAMA Core Land Use Plan to be consistent with the City’s
desired vision for the future and unanimously approved to adopt the draft CAMA
Core Land Use Plan as amended; and
WHEREAS, at the Regular Meeting on September 13, 2007, the Board of Aldermen of
the City of Southport, North Carolina found that policy statements and the
Future Land Use Map have been evaluated, and determined that no internal
inconsistencies exist; and
WHEREAS, the adopted Plan will be submitted as required by state law to the
Wilmington District Planner for the Division of Coastal Management under the
North Carolina Department of Environmental and Natural Resources and forwarded
to the Coastal Resources Commission; and
WHEREAS, a presentation by the City to the Planning and Special Issues (P&SI)
Committee of the Coastal Resources Commission will be scheduled; and
WHEREAS, the P&SI Committee will decide on a recommendation to the Coastal
Resource Commission (CRC) at the meeting; and
WHEREAS, the P&SI Committee chairman will submit the recommendation to the CRC
and the CRC will then vote on certification of the City’s Land Use Plan; and
WHEREAS, a certified City of Southport CAMA Core Land Use Plan will be
forwarded to the Office of Ocean and Coastal Resource Management (OCRM) for
federal approval.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED THAT the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport, North Carolina, has unanimously adopted the draft CAMA Core Land Use
Plan; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Planning Director of the City of Southport is
hereby authorized to submit the adopted CAMA Core Land Use Plan to the State
for certification as described above.
Adopted this 11th day of October 2007.
/s/ Norman R. Holden
Mayor, City of Southport
ATTEST:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
City Clerk
VI.
Award of Materials Provision Contract for the Electrical Sub-station Upgrade
Per memo from Mr. Grant, bids were opened on September 25, 2007. Electrical
Consulting Engineers, Inc. prepared the bid specifications and recommended that
the Substation Engineering and Design be awarded the contract for the provision
of materials, as they were the low bidders and provided the best delivery time.
City staff concurred with ECE and recommended that the Board of Aldermen award
the materials provision contract to Substation Engineering and Design for
$162,323.00 with estimated delivery time at 17-19 weeks.  Alderman Fisher
moved, seconded by Alderman Childs to award the bid to Substation Engineering
and Design for $162,323.00. The vote of approval was unanimous.
VII.
Resolution Authorizing the Disposition of Certain Personal Property by Private
Sale
Alderman Childs moved, seconded by Alderman Callari to adopt the following
resolution, vote carried.
RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE DISPOSITON OF CERTAIN PERSONAL PROPERTY BY PRIVATE
SALE
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport desires to dispose of
certain surplus property of the City of Southport; and
WHEREAS, said personal property is valued at less than $30,000 for any one item
or group of similar items; and
WHEREAS, the Board is assembled in a regular council meeting;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that:
1.   The following described property is hereby declared to be surplus to needs
of the City:
      DESCRIPTION         VIN#
Vehicles   1996 Ford CrownVictoria      2FALP71W2TX119717    Police
      1997 Ford Crown ictoria      2FALP71WOVX105818   Dept.
      1998 Ford Crown Victoria      2FAFP71W7WX104986
      1998 Ford Crown Victoria      2FAFP71W5WX104985
      1998 Chevy Lumina         2G1WL52M4W9189872
      1990 Chevy Pickup         1GCDC14ZXLE219224   W/S
                                 Dept.
      1964 Ford 850 Pumper Truck   C085QU579463         Fire
                                 Dept.
Equipment   Wisconsin 4 cylinder engines                  Garage
      GE Arc Welding Machine, Model R2OC620, SR 184-PP, 230-640 Volt
       3 phase   Chevy 350 5.7 liter engine
      4” Boring Machine w/cradle & hose attachments
                                 Public
                                 Works Dept
      Crafco 25hp pavement cutter
      Rubberized Asphalt Melter Applicator, Model – Kera-10
      Hydraulic Pump Machine 11hp Briggs & Stratton
      FL-60 Bush Hog                     Parks
                                 & Rec Dept.
      Ford 930B Mower 3PT Hitch
      Ford 951 Mower 3PT Hitch, SR # WW22510
      5ft Aerator 3PT Hitch
      McCormick Farmall Tractor with wood SL59 Mower
      Roller Packer
      Club Car Golf Cart
      E-Z Go Golf Cart
Office Items
         (4) 2-Drawer Filing Cabinets                  Police Dept.
          Cubby Hole Organizer
          4-Drawer Filing Cabinet
          5-Drawer Filing Cabinet
         Dell 19” Monitor, SR # 8247200               Building
                                    Inspections Dept. 
         Compaq, Model 420T, Sr # 20233646A216
         Cannon Adding Machine P23-DH11
         Mouse Systems Keybord, KWD-203, SR # 7H095-308095
         (2) HP Keyboards                     Administration
         Epson Receipt Printer
         Epson C4OUX Desk Printer
         HP 610CL Desk Jet Printer
         HP 870Cse Desk Jet Printer
         KDS Computer Monitor
         Data General Dot Matrix Printer (can no longer get repair parts)
      ****** All vehicles and equipment are in fair to poor condition and will
be sold “As Is”
2.   The City Manager is authorized to dispose of the described property by
Private sale at a negotiated price pursuant to G.S. 160A-267
3.   The City Clerk shall publish notice summarizing this Resolution in
Accordance with G.S. 160A-267.
4.   No sale may be consummated earlier than 10 days from the date of
publication.
Adopted this 11th day of October 2007.
Attest:
/s/Regina W. Alexander   /s/ Norman R. Holden
City Clerk         Mayor
VIII.
Review of Resolution in Support of the 2007 Wounded Warrior Project’s Soldier
Ride – Carolina Challenge
Alderman Fisher moved, seconded by Alderman Brown to adopt the following
resolution. Vote carried.
RESOLUTION IN SUPPORT OF THE 2007 WOUNDED WARRIOR PROJECT’S SOLDIER RIDE –
CAROLINA CHALLENGE
WHEREAS, The Wounded Warrior Project was formed to raise awareness and enlist
the public’s aid for the needs of severely injured service men and women, and
WHEREAS, The Wounded Warrior Project was also formed to help severely injured
service members aid and assist each other, and to provide unique, direct
programs and services to meet their needs, and
WHEREAS, Through the generous donations of private citizens, organizations and
corporations, Wounded Warriors are provided opportunities that ease the
transition to civilian life, and
WHEREAS, This support is also complemented by both grassroots and national
events hosted for Wounded Warrior Project by volunteers and organizations
nationwide, and
WHEREAS, As part of the awareness of the needs of this organization, the
Wounded Warrior Project partakes in a Soldier Ride – Carolina Challenge event
that will bring cyclist participates through the City of Southport on Saturday,
October 20, 2007 at approximately 10:30 a.m. with a stop at Waterfront Park for
a short ceremony.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the City of Southport Board of Aldermen
goes on record in support of the Wounded Warrior Project and encourages our
citizens to come out on October 20th to visit the participates while they are
in Southport to demonstrate our support for their service to our country and
their cause in providing the care needed for our Wounded Warriors.
DULY RESOLVED, THIS THE 11th DAY OF OCTOBER 2007.
/s/ Norman R. Holden
Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
City Clerk
IX.
Resolution Proclaiming October 7-13, 2007 as Public Power Week in the City of
Southport
Alderman Callari moved, seconded by Alderman Fisher to adopt the following
resolution proclaiming October 7-13, as Public Power Week in the City of
Southport. The vote was unanimous.
RESOLUTION PROCLAIMING OCTOBER 7-13, 2007 PUBLIC POWER WEEK IN THE CITY OF
SOUTHPORT, NORTH CAROLINA
WHEREAS, the City of Southport provides reliable electricity to its citizens;
and
WHEREAS, the citizens of Southport are consumers and owners of their public
power systems and exercise local control over utility operations and policies;
and
WHEREAS, our employees are neighbors serving neighbors; and
WHEREAS, our electric system is a community asset that contributes to the well-
being of citizens by providing safe and reliable power, excellent local
customer service and economic development opportunities; and
WHEREAS, our community is one of more than 70 public power cities and towns in
North Carolina, and more than 2,000 public power systems in the United States.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the City of Southport, North Carolina, does
hereby proclaim October 7 through October 13, 2007, “Public Power Week” in an
effort to promote public power and those who work in our cities and towns to
provide the best possible electric service for our citizens.
DULY ADOPTED THIS THE 11th DAY OF OCTOBER, 2007
/s/ Norman R. Holden
Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
City Clerk
X.
Stray Cats – Denise Moore
Ms. Denise Moore, Director of Kids World Learning Center, Mr. and Mrs. Antwan
Taylor, the owners, and Mary Jo Willis, resident and business owner came before
the Board to discuss the problem of stray cats. Ms. Moore gave the board a
packet of information, which included pictures of stray cats. She stated that
their problem began in 2003, when Mrs. Taylor contacted the City Manager and
Code Enforcement Officer. Mr. Drew conducted an investigation and it was
determined that their concerns were valid. He has trapped some cats, but for
every trapped cat, a stray gives birth to a new litter. Ms. Moore stated until
an ordinance is adopted and enforced, this problem would continue to escalate.
She presented a petition with signatures showing that others are experiencing
similar problems. She told the Board that the owner of the Center located an
ordinance from another town regarding enforcement of stray cats and shared it
with staff. She alluded to a similar problem that Mrs. Mary Jo Willis, a
Southport business owner is having. Ms. Moore told the Board that they have had
to close their business, bring in engineers, medical professionals and teachers
having to take time off from work to pick up their children. She asked the
Board to help rectify this problem by amending the pre-existing Animal Control
Ordinance to include cats. She explained that at any given time, there are
thirteen cats on the neighbors’ porch; however, her personal cats are kept
inside. The strays are not vaccinated, spayed or neutered. The exterminator
bombed the inside of their building and sprayed the outside; in addition, cats
are dying on their property. In conclusion, Ms. Moore stated that true animal
lovers are responsible people; they advocate neutering, spaying, and are
responsible for their pets.
Attorney Isenberg explained that the only law the City has states that all cats
once they reach a certain age must be vaccinated. The City does not have laws
prohibiting cats from running at large or restrict the number of cats on
property. However, the state statute does provide the same powers to regulate
cats as dogs.
Mrs. Mary Jo Willis of Herring Drive told the Board that she has had problems
with stray cats for the past three months, which has plagued their boat storage
business. She cited problem with fleas, blood, urine, tearing of upholstery and
allergic reaction from one of her customers, sleeping on cars, porches and
porch furniture. She spoke with Charles Drew, Code Enforcement Officer and the
City is in the process of buying 20 more cages. Due to the significant
increase, some residents have used their personal cages, which have not been
returned. Ms. Willis stated that some enforcement should be in place to make
pet owners responsible. The stray cats should be picked up before they become
wild and rabid. She asked that the Board implement and enforce a Cat Ordinance
for the City.
Alderman Adams stated it is his understanding that the problem is not the pet
owners, it is stray cats. He questioned if the City should punish cat owners
and impose an ordinance, or should the City implement rules to control the
feral cat population. He stated the issue should be clarified, because nobody
owns a stray cat, and he believes this is the problem.
Alderman Callari stated she has also had a problem with feral cats and had to
replace chair cushions on her porch. Alderman Brown agreed that something
should be done, because an ordinance would only identify pet owners.
Mayor Holden requested Attorney Isenberg review the State Statutes and bring a
proposal to the November meeting. Alderman Callari recommended asking the Code
Enforcement Officer what he believes it would take to perform a mass round up
of feral cats. Mayor Holden stated if cat owners purchase a tag, the same as
dog owners, then the owners could be identified.
XI.
Budget Amendments
Alderman Fisher moved seconded by Alderman Brown to approve the following
budget amendments, vote carried.
Budget Amendment # 3
Fiscal Year 2007-2008
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session October 11, 2007, that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for funding received from fund balance for salary in
Tourism Dept to reclassify part-time person to full-time person who was
approved in regular Board meeting on September 13, 2007.
General Fund
                               Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section I
A.   Revenues Anticipated
      Fund Balance       5000             4,865,594.17
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
      Tourism Dept                        4,865,594.17
         Salary       14,000
         Part-time Sal(15,000)
         Health Insura6000
 
ADOPTED this the 11th day of October, 2007
/s/ Mayor Norman Holden 
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk to the Board of Aldermen
Budget Amendment # 4
Fiscal Year 2007-2008
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session October 11, 2007, that the following Budget
Amendment is adopted for funding from Board Contingency to Capital Improvement
in Cemetery Dept. for paving of two lanes, which was approved in regular Board
meeting on September 13, 2007. There will be no change in the budget.
General Fund
                               Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section I
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
      Board                               4,865,594.17
         Contingency  (21,350)
      Cemetery
         Capital Impro21,350
 
ADOPTED this the 11th day of October, 2007
/s/ Mayor Norman Holden
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk to the Board of Aldermen
XII.
Other Business
Tree Removal – Alderman Childs stated since the City has received complaints
about tree removals, she asked that the Forestry Committee Chairman be advised
when City trees are taken out so plans can be made to replant in the same
general location. The Board agreed by consensus.
Water Property – Alderman Childs stated the water treatment plant will be
decommissioned within the near future and asked that staff determine the best
use for the property. (Bonds paid in full April 2009)
Sewer Spray Field – Alderman Powell and the Sewer Committee reached an
agreement between the City of Southport and the Oak Island bridge contractor
for materials for land improvements. Because of this agreement, the City of
Southport will receive approximately $500,000 in free services to the spray
field site.
Fire Station Committee: Alderman Fisher reported that the Fire Station
Committee met
(Al Trunnell, Robert Howard, Paul Fisher, Nelson Adams and Greg Cumbee, Fire
Chief, Captains and other members of the Fire Department) The Fire Station
Committee will bring the concept and sketches for the new fire headquarters to
the November meeting. He stated the land has been secured, the property across
from Dosher Hospital acquired in a trade with the hospital, City secured a
bordering lot on Lord Street and one of the residents donated a second lot on
Lord.
Parking Committee: Alderman Fisher reported that the Parking Committee held its
last meeting and will become a part of the Transportation Committee. Dale
Holland was provided the information from the Parking Committee for the bicycle
study, which will ensure that Southport have a well-coordinated plan for moving
bicycles and vehicles around the city.
XIII.
EXECUTIVE SESSION – 8:30 p.m.
Alderman Fisher moved, seconded by Alderman Brown to enter closed session to
give staff directives in negotiating the position the Board wishes staff to
take and to authorize specific terms of an offer for land acquisition. Vote
carried.
Alderman Callari moved to re-enter regular session, seconded by Alderman Brown,
vote carried. (Closed session minutes will remain sealed until public
inspection no longer frustrates the purpose of the closed meeting)
XIV.
Regular Session – 8:55 p.m.
Mayor Holden announced for the benefit of the press and public, that the Board
in closed session gave staff directives concerning the financial terms the city
would be interested in to acquire property located at 317 West Bay Street.
XV.
Adjournment
Meeting adjourned upon motion of Alderman Childs, seconded by Alderman Brown,
vote carried.
_____________________________
/s/ Norman R. Holden, Mayor
_________________________________
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, CMC
Clerk
EXECUTIVE SESSION
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN OCTOBER 11, 2007
 
EXECUTIVE SESSION
The Board entered executive session for the purpose of giving staff directives
in negotiating the position the Board wishes to take and to authorize specific
terms of an offer for land acquisition.
Attorney Isenberg stated the property at 317 West Bay Street went to
foreclosure and Cooperative Bank bid on the property. In order to upset the
bid, the price must be raised by 5%. It will cost $1.795 million for the
property including court cost and attorney fees.
Alderman Childs asked if the City wish to upset the bid, would sufficient time
be allowed to raise the monies. Attorney Isenberg told the Board if no upset
bids were filed within 10 days, then Cooperative would own the property and the
City could negotiate with the bank. The City has until October 22 to file an
upset bid with the Clerk of Court.
Mr. Chad Hicks, City Planner informed the Board that he spoke with a
representative from Cooperative Bank and they will entertain the idea of
negotiating with the City for a tax write off. City Manager Gandy stated it is
his belief that the City should negotiate with Cooperative Bank after October
22, once the 10 days have lapsed to file an upset bid.
It was the consensus of the Board to direct staff to negotiate with cooperative
Bank after the 10-day time period has lapsed for the property at 317 West Bay
Street.
No further business, Alderman Callari moved to re-enter regular session,
seconded by Alderman Brown, vote carried.
__________________________________
Norman R. Holden, Mayor
___________________________
Regina W. Alexander, CMC
Clerk
NOVEMBER 8, 2007
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
NOVEMBER 8, 2007  7:30 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Norman R. Holden, Mayor
            Aldermen Meezie Childs, Stuart Callari, Paul Fisher,
            Nelson Adams, James Brown and James F. Powell
ABSENT:         None
STAFF PRESENT:      Regina W. Alexander, City Clerk
            Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
            Chad Hicks, Planner
            Bob Grant, Public Services Director
I.
Call To Order – 7:35 p.m.
Mayor Holden called the meeting to order at 7:35 p.m.
II.
Invocation
Alderman Brown delivered the invocation.
III.
Approval of Minutes
Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Childs to approve the regular
meeting and executive session minutes from October 11, 2007. Vote carried.
III.
Presentation
Mayor Holden presented Chief Jerry Dove the Order of the Long Leaf Pine on
behalf of Governor Easley, which is the highest honor bestowed on a citizen
from the Governor.
Mayor Holden announced that Item 8 – Review of possible additions to the City
of Southport Animal Control Ordinance regarding cats would be deferred until
the January meeting, at which time additional information will be gathered and
given to new board members.
Mayor Holden extended an invitation to Mayor Elect Spencer and Aldermen Elect
to meet with him, City staff and some of the current board members to review
pending matters and to update them on several projects before they take office
in December.
IV.
Petitions from the floor
There were no petitions from the floor.
V.
Public Hearing on Unified text change to Article 13, Planned Building Group
Regulation
Mayor tabled Item V due to a misprint in the advertisement and it will be
placed on the December agenda.
VI.
Preliminary and final plat approval for Dutchman Village (J.S. South)
Mr. Hicks stated that J. S. South is requesting preliminary and final plat
approval for Dutchman Village commercial development on Highway 211. The 42.5-
acre tract will contain 290 lots and the plan meets the requirements of the UDO
with the infrastructure being in place.
There were no questions from the Board, Alderman Fisher moved, seconded by
Alderman Powell to approve the preliminary and final plats. The vote of
approval was unanimous.
VII.
Report by Mr. Tom Grille of T.G. Fire/EMS Systems on Operational and Management
Review of the Southport Rescue Squad
Mr. Grille gave a synopsis of the report he prepared on the operation and
management review of the Southport Rescue Squad. He reviewed highlights of the
report and recommended that the Rescue Squad be made a City Department under
control of the City Manager. Mayor Holden deferred action on the report in
order to give the newly elected officials time to review the report and to act
accordingly.
VIII.
Review of possible additions to the City of Southport Animal Control Ordinance
regarding cats
Item tabled until January 2008.
IX.
Review and adoption of Capital Project Ordinance for Wastewater Enhancement
Project – Phase II
Mr. Grant, Public Services Director presented a Capital Project Ordinance for
the Wastewater Enhancement Project Phase II. The City received the initial
disbursement from the $3,000,000 Clean Water Management Trust Fund Grant and
the ordinance needs to be established for the Phase II project. Adopting the
ordinance will give the City the ability to track specific revenues and
expenditures associated with the work.
Alderman Fisher moved to adopt the Capital Project Ordinance for Phase II,
seconded by Alderman Childs. The vote was unanimous. 
ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING A CAPITAL PROJECT FUND:
SOUTHPORT WASTEWATER SYSTEM ENHANCEMENT – PHASE II
WHEREAS, the City of Southport is committed to providing superior wastewater
collection and treatment to its citizens; and
WHEREAS, the City is further committed to providing such service in the most
efficient, economical and environmentally appropriate manner practicable; and
WHEREAS, the elected approach to achieving these goals is through a partnership
with the Southeast Brunswick Sanitary District (SBSD) that will ultimately
result in the SBSD assuming all wastewater treatment responsibilities for the
City; and
WHEREAS, it is appropriate that a Capital Project Fund be established for Phase
II of this venture that will result in all of the City’s wastewater flow being
redirected to the SBSD for treatment; and
WHEREAS, a Capital Project Fund is hereby determined to be the most appropriate
manner in which to account for revenues and expenditures associated with Phase
II;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Southport Board of Aldermen:
1.   A Capital Project Fund is hereby established for Phase II of this project.
2.   The total budget for the project, subject to amendment by action of the
Aldermen as necessary to implement the project, shall be as follows:
Revenue
CG&L Revolving Fund Loan         $ 8,952,000.00
CWMTF Grant            $ 3,000,000.00
City of Southport Grant Match      $ 878,000.00
Total Revenue            $12,830.000.00
Expenditures
Construction                $ 9,800,000.00
Contingency (10%)            $ 980,000.00
Professional Services            $ 1,345,000.00
Legal/Administrative            $ 70,000.00
Easement/Land Acquisition         $ 439,000.00
CG&L Closing Costs (2% of Construction)   $ 196,000.00
Total Expenditures            $12,830,000.00
3.   The City Manager and Finance Officer are hereby authorized to make any
Fund or accounting adjustments necessary to establish, implement and maintain
this Capital Project Fund.
4.   The City Manager, Finance Officer and Public Services Director are hereby
authorized and empowered to execute on behalf of the City of Southport all
contracts, agreements and other documents necessary to administer this
ordinance and Phase II of the Southport Wastewater System Enhancement Project
and all prior actions of said officers consistent herewith are hereby ratified.
Duly adopted, this 8th day of November, 2007.
/s/ Norman R. Holden 
Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
City Clerk
X.
Request from J. S. South for City acceptance of remaining sewer lines in
Dutchman Village Business Park
Mr. Bob Grant, Public Services Director stated that the City has performed its
standard inspection of the lines and found them to be acceptable. Staff
recommends that the Board authorize the addition of these lines to the City
system subject to the standard 10% warranty, which is for a one-year period.
The permit is currently in J. S. South LLC’s name, however once the lines are
accepted, a permit modification will be made to the State to change the permit
to the City of Southport.
Alderman Fisher moved, seconded by Alderman Callari to authorize the City
Manager to sign off on the permit modification once the City has received the
10% warranty bond. Vote carried.
XI.
City’s Treated Effluent Management Site off of Sunny Point Road
Mr. Grant referenced the Board to the October meeting where Alderman Powell
briefed the Board on an opportunity for the City to have some clearing and site
preparatory work performed on the property at Sunny Point with little or no
cost to the City. He submitted request for proposals (RFP’s) to various
contractors and received one response from Barnhill Contracting. The company
agreed to perform the scope of the work for the value of the salvage earthen
material to be removed from the site, (Approximately 100,000 cubic yards).
Staff recommends that the Agreement be awarded to Barnhill with the stipulation
that there is no monetary cost to the City. Alderman Powell moved to award the
contract to Barnhill and to authorize the City Manager to execute the
Agreement, seconded by Alderman Brown, the vote carried. Thanks were extended
to Alderman Powell in negotiating this deal.
Alderman Fisher moved to direct the City Manager to schedule a meeting with
representatives from Sunny Point to review the work to be performed. Motion
seconded by Alderman Callari, vote carried. Alderman Adams asked that something
be provided in writing as to the scope of the work that is permissible in the
buffer zone. Alderman Fisher stated that this is the purpose of the meeting;
Sunny Point will provide the City with a written letter.
XII.
Proposed Fire Department Headquarters
Chief Cumbee thanked Mayor Holden and Board members for their support of the
fire department. He also thanked the Fire Station Committee comprised of his
Sr. Officers, Al Trunnel, Paul Fisher, Nelson Adams and Robert Howard. He
stated that they met several times to discuss and review plans for the proposed
fire station. Chief Cumbee stated it is his hope that the Board will approve
the conceptual drawing and then proceed to the next step. He explained that the
current fire station was built in 1963 and is inadequate for their needs. The
Fire Department has an ISO rating of four (4) which speaks for itself. The new
station is needed so that they can move out of the busy downtown area and be
centrally located, and the new station will be able to house all of their
equipment.
Chief Cumbee introduced Mr. Scott Garner and Neil Brown of Garner and Brown
Architects of Charlotte, North Carolina. Mr. Garner presented the conceptual
drawing of the proposed fire department. He explained that the building was
designed to meet the needs of the city. He stated that the typical life of a
fire station is approximately 50 years and the city is on target. Mr. Garner
gave a detailed description of the station and how it will be used for the
firemen, function of various offices, housing equipment and trucks. The
building was designed reminiscent of Southport and would be a positive addition
to the City.
Mayor Holden and the Board thanked Mr. Garner for the presentation. Mayor
Holden stated it is his hopes that the newly elected Mayor-elect and Aldermen-
elect will look favorably at the new Fire Station. Mr. Garner stated the
proposed building houses 21,000 square feet with an approximate cost of $4 -
4.5 million. Alderman Fisher stated that the Committee is looking at a
financial plan and options are being considered for funding. Congressman
McIntyre’s office has been contacted for assistance.
Chief Cumbee stated the next step is approval from the Board on the conceptual
drawings and once received, he can authorize the architects to go forth with
the plans. Mayor Holden recommended that a financial plan be compiled showing
how they plan to fund the construction and present it to the new board in
January.
XIII.
Write-Off of Inactive Utility Accounts
Patty Miller, Finance Director requested approval from the Board to write off
inactive utility accounts over 3 years old from May 2003 to October 30, 2004,
which totals $70,513.48. The accounts are considered uncollectible. Alderman
Fisher moved, seconded by Alderman Brown to approve the request to write off
inactive utility accounts, vote carried.
XIV.
Other Business
Solid Waste Contract - Mr. Grant presented the solid waste contract with Waste
Industries, which is a standard three-year extension. City staff met with
representatives from Waste Industries and no changes were proposed. Alderman
Fisher moved to approve the three-year contract with Waste Industries for solid
waste services, seconded by Alderman Brown. Vote carried. (Contract on file in
Clerk’s Office)
Associated Artist Lease – City Attorney Isenberg presented a request from the
Associated Artists requesting to extend the lease for Franklin Square Art
Gallery with the City. He stated prior to approval, the City must give public
notice that the lease will be considered for extension. The consensus of the
Board is to direct staff to publish the notice of intent.
Resolution - Alderman Powell presented a resolution in support of a proposed
public/private four-lane connector roadway alternative from the intersection of
Long Beach Road and Highway 211 through to Highway 87 to the planned NCDOT
connector roadway (TIP #R-3324), and requests the State of North Carolina to
take all necessary steps and action to implement the plan, design and
construction of said alternative. Alderman Powell moved to adopt the resolution
and requested that it be forwarded to Secretary Lyndo Tippet, NCDOT. Motion
seconded by Alderman Callari, vote carried.
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport recognizes the traffic
congestion existing at the intersection of Oak Island Road and Highway 211
which causes traffic flow and safety problems for the entire area; and
WHEREAS, the Board also recognizes the need to remedy this problem as
expeditiously as possible in order to increase traffic flow and reduce safety
hazards; and
WHEREAS, the Board supports the concept of a public/private four-lane connector
roadway alternative to the planned NCDOT connector roadway (TIP #R-3324) for
the following reasons:
1.   The roadway’s design and capacity make it a much more effective and direct
evacuation route in case of a hurricane or other disaster;
2.   The roadway’s design will create no significant impact on existing
commercial and residential developments;
3.   The roadway’s design will have minimal environmental impact as adequate
lands are available for use in mitigation and preservation;
4.   The roadway’s design will leave ample space for any new highway
infrastructure that may be added in the future to accommodate the proposed
International Port in Southport;
5.   The roadway’s developers are working with the City of Southport to upgrade
and accommodate the city’s sewer needs resulting in less costs for the City;
6.   The roadway can be built sooner and at a significantly lower cost per mile
than the planned NCDOT roadway;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport
that the City of Southport supports the proposed public/private four-lane
connector roadway alternative from the intersection of Oak Island Road and
Highway 211 through to Highway 87 to the planned NCDOT connector roadway (TIP #
R-3324) and hereby requests the State of North Carolina to take all necessary
steps and action to implement the plan, design and construction of said
alternative.
This the 8th day of November, 2007.
City of Southport
By:
/S/ Norman R. Holden, Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, Clerk
XV.
Adjournment – 8:47 p.m.
No further business, the meeting adjourned upon motion of Alderman Childs,
seconded by Alderman Brown, vote carried.
_______________________________
Norman R. Holden, Mayor
_______________________
Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
DECEMBER 13, 2007
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
DECEMBER 13, 2007 7:30 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Norman R. Holden, Mayor (Retiring)
            Mary “Meezie” Child (Retiring)
            James F. Powell (Retiring)
            Mary “Stuart” Callari (Retiring)
            Nelson E. Adams
            Paul R. Fisher
            James C. Brown
            Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor Elect
            Jwantana G. Frink, Alderman Elect
            Richard “Ed” Boguskie, Alderman Elect
            Donald Potter, Alderman Elect
ABSENT:         Rob Gandy, City Manager
STAFF:         Regina W. Alexander, City Clerk
            Bob Grant, Public Services Director
            Chad Hicks, City Planner
            Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
I.
Call to Order – 7:30 p.m.
Mayor Holden called the meeting to order at 7:39 p.m. and welcomed all. Mayor
Holden announced that there was old business on the agenda that needed to be
addressed before the oaths were administered to the Mayor and Aldermen Elect.
II.
Invocation
Alderman Brown delivered the invocation.
III.
Approval of minutes
Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Fisher to approve the regular
meeting minutes from November 8, 2007. Vote of approval was unanimous.
IV.
Citizens Matters (Petitions from the floor)
Mr. Harley Lemons, a resident of the city expressed appreciation and gratitude
to the retiring board members for their work as Aldermen and Mayor in making
Southport a better community and thanked them for their many hours of hard work
as elected officials.
V.
Alderman Childs moved, seconded by Alderman Brown to enter Public Hearing to
receive public comments on text change to Article 13, Planned Building Group
Regulation, text change to Article 1, Regulations for Signs, text change to
Article 18 “Buffer Strips and Landscaping, and text change to Article 16, Off-
street parking and off-street loading requirements. Vote carried.
Mr. Chad Hicks, City Planner offered an explanation on each proposed change
that was recommended by the Planning Board. There were no public comments.
Alderman Childs moved, seconded by Alderman Callari to close the Public Hearing
and re-enter regular session. Vote carried.
Alderman Childs moved, seconded by Alderman Callari to approve the text change
to Article 13, Planned Building Group Regulation by adding the following to the
second paragraph. “Planned Building Group approvals shall be effective for 24
months after approval from the Planning Board. The developer may request in
writing an extension of this time from the Planning Board. If construction does
not begin within 24 months from the date of Planning Board approval or the
Planning Board does not grant an extension, the developer must reapply for
Planned Building Group approval. If construction on a site stops for a period
of two years, and no time extension is granted by the Planning Board, then the
developer must reapply for Planned Building Group approval. The vote of
approval was unanimous.
VI.
Alderman Childs moved, seconded by Alderman Callari to approve text change to
Article 17, “Regulations for Signs” with the proposed change to affect 17-4 (B)
2 and 17-4 (B) 4. These changes will allow businesses located on corner lots to
have a freestanding sign on both road frontages. The requirements on size and
districts where signs are allowed will not change. The vote of approval was
unanimous.
VII.
Alderman Brown moved, seconded by Alderman Childs to approve the text change to
Article 18 “Buffer Strips and Landscaping”. The vote of approval was unanimous.
VIII.
Alderman Brown moved, seconded by Alderman Callari to approve text change to
Article 16 “Off street Parking and Off-Street Loading Requirements” which would
require additional overflow parking on multi-family development projects. The
vote of approval was unanimous.
IX.
Resolution of Support for Countywide Historic Survey
Alderman Childs moved, seconded by Alderman Brown to approve the succeeding
resolution. Vote of approval was unanimous.
RESOLUTION OF SUPPORT FOR COUNTY WIDE HISTORIC SURVEY
Whereas, Brunswick County contains many historical sites in danger of becoming
lost to development; and
Whereas, the historical sites in Brunswick County are part of our collective
heritage and should not be forgotten; and
Whereas, the recordings of these sites for the public record is important for
future generations to understand the past of Brunswick County.
Now, Therefore Be it Resolved, that the City of Southport, North Carolina Board
of Aldermen does hereby support the efforts of Brunswick County to conduct a
Historical Survey of Brunswick County and the various municipalities located
within Brunswick County’s jurisdiction.
DULY ADOPTED THIS THE 13TH DAY OF December 2007.
/s/ Norman R. Holden, Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
City Clerk
X.
Resolution authorizing lease of City Property (Franklin Square Art Gallery) to
the Associated Artists of Southport
Alderman Childs moved, seconded by Alderman Brown to renew the lease with the
Associated Artist of Southport for ten (10) years. The vote of approval was
unanimous.
(Lease Agreement on file in the office of the City Clerk)
XI.
Modification of Appendix A of the Sewer Allocation Schedule relating to
reduction in residential flow amount per bedroom
Mr. Grant, Public Services Director informed the Board for the past two years
the city has been compiling data and working with the Division of Water Quality
to provide a reduction in the amount of flow per bedroom that must be reserved
for each new residential unit. DWQ notified the City in September that this was
approved which will allow the city to reserve 80 gpd of flow for bedroom versus
the former 120 gpd that had been reserved. This modification would increase the
residential per gallon impact fee from $20/gallon to $30/gallon. (See attached
sheet)
Appendix A
Wastewater Allocation Impact Fee Schedule
Wastewater flow allocated for residential purposes shall be calculated based
upon the number of bedrooms contained within the units. No less than two
bedrooms shall be considered in the calculation of flow for a residential unit.
Existing SFD development on a single lot abutting a wastewater utility line
suitable for connection shall pay a wastewater impact fee of $30/gallon. This
charge shall also apply to any existing residential developments for which
impact fees have not previously been paid if full.
For proposed new subdivided development (including the division of existing
lots platted at the time of the initiation of this schedule) duplex or multi-
family development, or any other development where a wastewater utility system
extension permit is required where plans are approved by the City subsequent to
the adoption of this schedule, the following shall apply:
3 or fewer dwelling units/acre            = $30/gallon
4-8 dwelling units/acre            = $35/gallon
Over 8 dwelling units/acre            = $40/gallon
For mixed use development, each 750 ft.² of non-residential space, or fraction
thereof, shall be considered as one residential two bedroom unit for the
purpose of meeting the density calculation prescribed above.
For non-residential development, usage shall be calculated on the basis of the
attached schedule identified as Appendix B. A wastewater impact fee of $20/
gallon per calculated gallon shall be applied with the exception of the
following uses:
Food Service Uses***               = $25/gallon
Laundromats                  = $25/gallon
Car Washes                  = $25/gallon
Motels/Hotels with cooking facilities in room   = $25/gallon
Campgrounds with water/sewer hook-ups      = $25/gallon
Any use requiring pretreatment of waste      = $40/gallon
**** Food Service Uses shall include, but are not strictly limited, to
restaurants, hospitals, day cares, rest or nursing homes, motels, hotels with
separate restaurants, etc, where food is prepared in house and by products of
the activity are handled on site. Where food service is in addition to another
primary use, flow calculations shall be determined on the basis of both the
primary and any related ancillary uses.
2007-WW allocation revision @ 240 GPD-3BR-FINAL-DFT2-103007
XII.
Water Emergency Policy
Mr. Grant presented a proposed Water Emergency Policy for consideration. He
informed the Board that the policy mirrors the County’s, which has been
modified to meet the City of Southport’s needs, and stated the importance of
having it in place to implement measures that are necessary to protect the
city’s water sources in the case of drought, since this has been an extremely
dry season. Aldermen Fisher asked if the City had to implement the policy,
would it be done in stages and monitored. Mr. Grant responded that the City can
and will work with Brunswick County.
No further questions, Alderman Fisher moved to approve the Emergency Water
Policy, seconded by Alderman Brown, the vote of approval was unanimous.
WATER EMERGENCY POLICY
A.   INTRODUCTION.
The City’s Public Services Department henceforth referred to as the
“Department” and the Board of Aldermen, henceforth referred to as the “Board”
shall have the charge to protect the City’s public water supply and to ensure
that the benefactors of this system are assured an adequate supply of water
even in times of water shortage. Water shortage can be the result of climatic
conditions causing drought or it may be the result of a physical breech in the
City’s water supply system (i.e., mechanical failure, cut or broken water main,
etc.) impeding the flow of potable or raw water supply.
B.   WATER EMERGENCY RESPONSE AND MANAGEMENT.
1.   DECLARATION OF WATER EMERGENCY.
The Mayor, after consultation with the City Manager, Public Services Director
and Brunswick County Utilities Director is authorized to declare that a water
emergency exists. Depending on the severity of the emergency, voluntary (Stage
1) and mandatory (Stage 2 and Stage 3) staged water use restrictions as
described in this ordinance shall be imposed upon all water customers.
2.   STAGED WATER USE RESTRICTIONS.
a.   STAGE 1 – WATER CONSERVATION ALERT.
A Stage 1 water shortage emergency may be declared in the event of an immediate
water shortage, as so declared by state and/or local officials, or when there
are three (3) consecutive days when water demand exceeds eighty percent (80%)
of the water production capacity. Water production capacity shall be defined as
the maximum volume of water that meets or exceeds state and federal standards
that the water treatment process can produce during a twenty-four (24) hour
period. Water production capacity can vary depending on system component
reliability and/or raw water conditions. During a declared Stage 1 water
shortage emergency the following voluntary water conservation practices shall
be encouraged.
1)    Inspect and repair all faulty and defective parts of faucets and toilets.
2)    Use shower for bathing rather than bathtub and limit shower to no more
than five (5) minutes.
3)    Do not leave faucets running while shaving, brushing teeth, rinsing or
preparing food.
4)    Limit the use of clothes washers and dishwashers and when used, operate
fully loaded. Operate dishwashers after the peak demand hours of 6:00 PM to 10:
00 PM.
5)    Limit lawn watering to that necessary for plant survival. Water lawns
before the peak demand hours of 6:00 AM to10:00 AM
6)    Water shrubbery the minimum required. Water shrubbery before the peak
demand hours of 6:00 AM to 10:00 AM.
7)    Limit vehicle washing to a minimum.
8)    Do not wash down outside areas such as sidewalks, drive-ways, patios,
etc.
9)    Install water saving showerheads and other water conservation devices.
10)    Use disposable and biodegradable dishes where possible.
11)    Install water saving devices in toilets such as early closing flappers.
12)   Limit hours of water-cooled air conditioners.
13)   Do not fill swimming or wading pools.
b.   STAGE 2 – WATER SHORTAGE WARNING.
A Stage 2 water shortage emergency may be declared in the event of an immediate
water shortage, as so declared by state and/or local officials, or when there
are two (2) consecutive days when water demand exceeds ninety percent (90%) of
the water production capacity. Water production capacity shall be defined as
the maximum volume of water that meets or exceeds state and federal standards
that the water treatment process can produce during a twenty-four (24) hour
period. Water production capacity can vary depending on system component
reliability and/or raw water conditions. During a declared Stage 2 water
shortage emergency the following activities shall be prohibited:
1)   Watering lawns, grass, shrubbery, trees, flower and vegetable gardens
except by hand held hoses, container, or drip irrigation system. A person who
regularly sells plants will be permitted to use water on their commercial
stock. A golf course may water their greens. State and City licensed landscape
contractors may water any plants by hand held hose or drip irrigation under a
written warranty.
2)   Filling swimming or wading pools, either newly constructed or previously
drained. Make up water for pools in operation will be allowed.
3)   Using water-cooled air conditioners or other equipment, in which cooling
water is not recycled, unless there are health or safety concerns.
4)   Washing any type of mobile equipment including cars, trucks, trailers,
boats or airplanes. Any person involved in a business of washing motor vehicles
may continue to operate.
5)   Washing outside surfaces such as streets, driveways, service station
aprons, parking lots or patios.
6)   Exterior washing of office buildings, homes or apartments.
7)   Using water for any ornamental fountain, pool, pond, etc. unless recycled.
8)   Serving drinking water in food establishments such as restaurants or
cafeterias, unless requested to do so by a customer.
9)    Using water from a public or private fire hydrant for any reason other
than to suppress a fire or other public emergency or as authorized by Director
or his authorized representative.
10)    Using water to control or compact dust.
11)    Intentionally wasting water.
12)    Commercial and industrial water customers shall achieve mandatory
reductions in water usage through whatever means are available. A minimum
reduction of twenty percent (20%) shall be the target, however, a greater
target reduction percentage may be required depending on the severity of the
water shortage emergency. Compliance with the reduction target shall be
determined by the Director or his authorized representative. Variances to the
target reduction may be granted by the Director or his authorized
representative to designated public health facilities.
c.   STAGE 3 – WATER SHORTAGE DANGER.
A Stage 3 water shortage emergency may be declared in the event of an immediate
water shortage, as so declared by state and/or local officials, or when there
is one (1) day when demand exceeds one hundred percent (100%) of the water
production capacity. Water production capacity shall be defined as the maximum
volume of water that meets or exceeds state and federal standards that the
water treatment process can produce during a twenty-four (24) hour period.
Water production capacity can vary depending on system component reliability
and/or raw water conditions. During a declared Stage 3, water shortage
emergency the following activities shall be prohibited, in addition to
activities prohibited under Stage 2:
1)     Watering lawns, grass, shrubbery, trees, and flowers.
2)    Washing motor vehicles at commercial car wash establishments.
3)    Watering any vegetable garden except by hand held hose, container, or
drip irrigation.
4)   Commercial and industrial water customers shall achieve mandatory
reductions in water usage through whatever means are available. A minimum
reduction of fifty percent (50%) shall be the target, however, a greater target
reduction percentage may be required depending on the severity of the water
emergency. Compliance with the reduction target shall be determined by the
Director or his authorized representative. Variances to the target reduction
may be granted by the Director or his authorized representative to designated
public health facilities.
5)   In the event that the prohibition of the activities listed above is not
sufficient to maintain an adequate supply of water for fire protection, all use
of water for purposes other than maintenance of public health and safety shall
be prohibited. Residential water use shall be limited to the amount necessary
to sustain life through drinking, food preparation and personal hygiene.
3.   COMPLIANCE PLAN DURING STAGE 2 AND STAGE 3 EMERGENCIES.
The Director or his authorized representative may require that commercial and
industrial water customers prepare plans detailing measures to be taken by them
to achieve mandatory reductions in daily water usage during Stage 2 and Stage 3
emergencies. Such plans shall be completed within sixty (60) calendar days
after receipt of notice to prepare them.
4.   PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION OF MANDATORY RESTRICTIONS.
Any user who is found to have failed to comply with any of the mandatory
restrictions set forth in these Regulations may be fined in accordance with
NCGS 160A-175(c1) with a civil penalty of Five Hundred dollars ($500.00), to be
recovered by the City in a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender
does not pay the penalty within 15 days of being cited for the violation. Each
day’s continuing violation shall be a separate and distinct offense.
5.   AUTHORITY TO DISCONTINUE SERVICE.
Pursuant to the provisions of NCGS 160A-175 and 160A-312(b), water service may
be temporarily discontinued for failure to comply with the mandatory
restrictions in this ordinance. All applicable penalty fees may be applied in
the event of such service suspensions. In the event of continued non-compliance
with this ordinance, removal of meter and service will be deemed proper and
service will be discontinued and tap fees and account deposits shall be
forfeited.
6.   APPEALS BY CUSTOMERS OF PENALTIES AND TERMINATION OF SERVICE.
Any user who receives a penalty and/or has service terminated as a result of
violations of the mandatory restrictions in this ordinance may appeal upon
notification to the Director. The Director shall be the final decision maker
for appeals and shall transmit a written copy of the final decision by
registered or certified mail within three (3) days after notification.
7.   TERMINATION OF RESTRICTIONS.
A water emergency declaration shall be terminated by the Mayor after
consultation with the City Manager, Public Services Director and Brunswick
County Utilities Director upon a determination that the condition that caused
the emergency has abated. The expiration or cancellation of a water shortage
emergency declaration shall be promptly publicized.
2007-Water Emergency Policy-Final-110807
XIII.
Resolution and Agreement for Deposit Account
Ms. Patty Miller, Finance Director informed the Board that a new “Resolution
and Agreement for Deposit” with BB&T is required with the election of Mayor
Elect, Sandra P. Spencer, removing retiring Mayor Norman R. Holden’s name, add
Regina W. Alexander, City Clerk as Deputy Finance Officer for check signing
purposes only as allowed by N.C.G.S. 159-25 (b) and to remove retiring City
Manager, Rob Gandy’s name. Alderman Adams motioned to approve the resolution,
seconded by Alderman Childs; the vote of approval was unanimous.
XIV.
Appointment of Alternate member to the Power Agency
Alderman Fisher informed the Board that Bob Grant is currently the alternate
member to the Power Agency and with his impending retirement, the Board needs
to appoint a replacement for Mr. Grant. He stated that Ralph Cardwell has
agreed to serve and moved to appoint him as the alternate member to the Power
Agency, seconded by Alderman Brown, the vote of approval was unanimous.
XV.
Tax Releases
Alderman Fisher moved to approve the following tax releases upon recommendation
of Mary Russ, Tax Collector. Motion seconded by Alderman Brown and the vote
carried.
Name         Parcel #      Amount Released   Value Released   Reason
Henry Foy      238HG031      548.10         365,400      E & R Adjustment
Kathleen Parker   238AC013      57.87         38,580         E & R Adjustment
Time Warner      Bill #2594      32.58         21,720         Data Entry Error
XVI.
Resolution in Support of Bicycle Grant
Mr. Chad Hicks presented a resolution for Board consideration and approval in
support of a Bicycle Grant. The City Council members were advised that the City
intend to submit an application for grant funding for $25,000 to the North
Carolina Department of Transportation. The grant application will be submitted
under the North Carolina Department of Transportation Bicycle and Pedestrian
Planning Grant Program to develop a City wide Bicycle trail system plan for the
City of Southport. There is a local match of 20% that will be required of the
City.
Motion to approve by Alderman Fisher, seconded by Alderman Brown, vote carried.
BE IT RESOLVED BY THE COUNCIL MEMBERS OF THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT:
1)    That the City of Southport is aware of the community’s needs with respect
to providing a safe and efficient transportation system including access for
cyclists.
2)    That the City of Southport fully supports submission of an application by
the City of Southport to the North Carolina Department of Transportation for
funding to develop a Bicycle trail system plan.
3)    That the City Manager be hereby authorized to sign and execute the grant
application to be submitted to the North Carolina Department of Transportation
5)    That if the application for funding is successful, the Southport City
Council authorizes the use of $5,000 in general funds to be utilized as a local
match required under the terms of the North Carolina Department of
Transportation Bicycle and Bicycle Planning Grant Program.
4)    That upon completion of the application the completed document will be
filed in the City of Southport City Hall. Upon motion of Council Member Fisher,
and seconded by Council Member Jim Brown, said resolution was unanimously
passed.”
I, Regina Alexander, Clerk of the City of Southport, North Carolina, do hereby
certify that the foregoing is a true copy of the proceedings of the Southport
City Council, at a meeting held December 13, 2007 as related to submittal of an
application for grant funding to the North Carolina Bicycle and Bicycle
Planning Grant Program.
WITNESS my hand and the corporate seal of the said City of Southport, this the
13th day of December, 2007.
(SEAL)
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk to the Board
XVII.
Other Old Business
Forestry Committee: Alderman Fisher read a letter from Mrs. Betty Timberlake
Secretary to the Southport Forestry Committee stating their appreciation of
support from the retiring Mayor and Aldermen.
New Fire Station: Alderman Fisher a member of the Southport Fire Station
Committee offered the following motion. “ I hereby make a motion endorsing and
supporting the concept plan and design for the new Southport Fire Station and
to authorize funds for the fire station building. The committee is to continue
to move through the design phase into construction drawings and further seek
authorization to begin pursuing options and opportunities to obtain grants,
loans etc. to assist in the funding of the construction of this facility.”
Alderman Brown seconded the motion and the vote of approval was unanimous.
Alderman Fisher thanked retiring Mayor Holden, Aldermen Callari, Childs and
Powell for their service to the City. He stated during their years on the
Board, with their guidance, foresight and vision for the future, it has guided
the City to create a well-oiled machine, and decisions made over the past years
have put Southport in the best shape it has ever been in. He also commended
City employees for their contributions and work. Alderman Fisher then moved to
give all permanent City employees $100 bonus, seconded by Alderman Brown, the
vote of approval was unanimous.
Alderman Childs stated that it has been an honor and privilege to serve with
each of the Board members and wished the newly elected Aldermen and Mayor the
best.
Alderman Brown thanked the retiring Board members for their service to the City
and noted the diligence, faithful and congenial manner in which business was
conducted and thanked Mayor Holden for his guidance.
Alderman Adams stated his pleasure in working with the retiring Board members
and the cooperative manner in which the Board worked to move the City forward.
Thanks were extended to retiring Public Works Director, Bob Grant and City
Manager Gandy for their dedication and hard work.
Alderman Powell stated his appreciation in being elected to serve the citizens
of Southport and the accomplishments as a board.
Alderman Callari thanked the citizens for their support and the privilege of
serving as an elected official.
In the last official act, Mayor Holden thanked the Board for their support and
confidence, and the citizens and employees for their support.
NEW BUSINESS
I.   Seating of Mayor Elect Sandra P. Spencer
The City Clerk administered the Oath of Office to Mayor- Elect Spencer and upon
being sworn in, retiring Mayor Holden passed the gavel to Mayor Spencer. (Oath
of Office Incorporated as official part of the minutes)
Mayor Spencer presented retiring Mayor Holden, Aldermen Powell, Childs and
Callari with plaques from the City honoring their service.
II.    Oaths of office were administered to Aldermen- Elect Jwantana Frink,
Donnie Potter and Richard “Ed” Boguskie. (Oaths Incorporated as official part
of the minutes)
III.    Mayor Pro Tempore: Mayor Spencer stated during conversation with
Alderman Brown, he stated his willingness to continue serving as Mayor Pro
Tempore’. She called for a motion to elect the Mayor Pro Tem. Alderman Boguskie
moved to name Alderman James Brown as Mayor Pro Tempore, seconded by Alderman
Frink, the vote of approval was unanimous.
IV.    Appointment of City Attorney: Mayor Spencer asked to be recused since
she works with the Law Firm owned by the City Attorney. Alderman Adams moved to
recuse Mayor Spencer, seconded by Alderman Potter, the vote of approval was
unanimous.
Mayor Pro Tempore Brown called for a motion on the selection of City Attorney.
Alderman Fisher moved to reappoint Mike Isenberg as City Attorney, seconded by
Alderman Adams, the votes were 6 ayes (Alderman Fisher, Frink, Boguskie, Brown,
Adams and Potter) Unanimous.
Alderman Potter moved to re-seat Mayor Spencer, seconded by Alderman Adams,
vote carried.
Aldermen Adams, Fisher and Brown welcomed Mayor Spencer, Aldermen Frink,
Boguskie and Potter. Each new board member expressed their thanks for the
support received and the opportunity to serve the citizens.
Mayor Spencer referenced the impending retirement of City Manager Rob Gandy and
stated while attending classes for the new Mayor’s, she spoke with Hartwell
Wright of the North Carolina League of Municipalities and he offered to assist
the City with the transition including hiring an interim manager. Alderman
Potter, seconded by Alderman Boguskie moved to authorize the Mayor to proceed
with the discussion with league representatives to hire an interim manager.
Discussion: Alderman Adams stated it is his belief that the Board needs to
proceed expeditiously to hire a full time Manager and not expend the energy or
the monies to hire an interim person. He recommended that the Mayor appoint a
City Manager Search Committee. Alderman Fisher agreed with Alderman Adams, he
suggested the Mayor select a Committee to determine what the City is looking
for in a City Manager.
Alderman Potter withdrew the motion.
Mayor Spencer stated that a Committee would be appointed to review applications
and assist with the City Manager search.
Alderman Brown recommended that copies of each resume be provided to Board
members, they will review each application and resume, select the top 10, call
a meeting and the Board selects the top five applicants and calls them in for
an interview. Alderman Brown moved to proceed with this recommendation,
seconded by Alderman Frink, the vote was unanimous. Mayor Spencer asked the
City Clerk to provide each member with copies of the City Manager applications.
Mayor Spencer stated the following:
Southport has some of the greatest people in the world and we are fortunate to
have many of those good people working for the City, both in City Hall and
outside. I know that I speak for the entire Board when I offer my sincerest
thanks to our employees for all the good things you do for us every day. I also
want to reassure everyone that there will be no “cleaning house” now that a new
Board of Aldermen is in place. Because of our staff, the City can continue to
operate every day and we could not possibly do OUR jobs without you doing
YOURS. We really appreciate everything you do and I look forward to working
with you.
I thank you, too, ladies and gentlemen of the town, so very much for coming
here tonight. The Board and I appreciate your past support and hope to have
your continued interest in the government of our beautiful city. I invite and
encourage your participation in city government . There are many opportunities
for public service in Southport and, if you are at all interested in serving on
a committee, please stop by City Hall, see Mrs. Alexander and fill out an
application.
One special note: Mr. George Baker, former chairman of the Beautification
Committee, has very kindly built a suggestion box that will be installed
outside the Mayor’s Office. I urge you to use that box by addressing your
suggestions or concern to me. Someone will contact you regarding your
suggestions. We are “your” Board; everyone on this dais was elected to serve
the community. We will work together for the betterment of our town but we need
your assistance. Help us to help you! Let us know your thoughts and concerns
about the City and its government.
All of us sitting here before you were elected by the people of this City to do
the work of governing. Mayor Pro Tem Jim Brown, Aldermen Paul Fisher and Nelson
Adams, I look forward to working with you to make Southport even better in the
future than it is today. Let us work together every day for a better tomorrow
for our town.
Again, I thank you all for being here tonight and wish you a very Merry
Christmas and safe, happy and prosperous New Year. Please join us for
refreshments following the meeting. Thanks again.”
ADJOURNMENT
No further business, Alderman Brown moved to adjourn, seconded by Alderman
Adams, vote carried.
_______________________________
Sandra P. Spencer
Mayor
_______________________
Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
2008
JANUARY 10, 2008
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
JANUARY 10, 2008  7:30 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, NC
 
PRESENT:          Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
            Aldermen Donnie Potter, James Brown, Ed Boguskie, Paul Fisher
            and Jwantana Frink
ABSENT:         Alderman Nelson E. Adams
STAFF:         Regina W. Alexander, CMC-City Clerk
            Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
            Chad Hicks, City Planner/ Interim City Manager
            Patty Miller, Finance Director
            Mary Russ, Tax Collector
            Greg Cumbee, Fire Chief
            Heather Hemphill, Director of Parks & Recreation
            Randy Jones, Director of Tourism
            Charles Drew, Code Enforcement
            Jerry Dove, Chief of Police
            Ralph Cardwell, Interim Public Services Director
I.
Call to Order – 7:30 p.m
Mayor Spencer called the meeting to order at 7:33 p.m.
II.
Invocation
Father Trent Watkins of Sacred Heart Catholic Church delivered the invocation.
III.
Approval of Minutes
Alderman Fisher motioned, seconded by Alderman Brown to approve the regular
meeting minutes of December 13, 2007. The vote of approval was unanimous.
IV.
Approval of Agenda
Alderman Potter moved, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to approve the agenda with
the addition of four (4) items. Vote carried.
V.
Committee Reports
No committee reports.
VI.
Departmental Reports
Departmental reports a part of the agenda packet and Chief Cumbee was present
to give Board members a copy of the Fire Department’s report.
VII.
Old Business
City Manager Search- Mayor Spencer stated 22 résumé’s were received for the
position of City Manager and a special meeting will be held with a
representative from the League of Municipalities January 15, 2008, 1:00 p.m. to
discuss the process of hiring a City Manager. Mayor Spencer also noted that she
spoke with a representative from the League and she was advised by the League
since the City of Southport operates under a City Manager form of government, a
City Manager must be in place. She believes the City should hire someone or
place a current employee in the position. Alderman Potter moved to hire Chad
Hicks as Interim City Manager with a 10% increase over his current salary,
understanding that the increase will be temporary until such time that a
Manager is hired. Alderman Boguskie seconded the motion. Discussion: Alderman
Fisher asked that it be in writing that the increase will be temporary. The
vote was unanimous.
Fire Station – Mayor stated at the November meeting plans were presented for a
new fire station at a cost of $4.3 million. No plans for construction or
financing have been committed by the Board. Alderman Fisher, a member of the
Fire Station Committee explained that they are working on the design phase and
he was proposing to present under new business two (2) letters; a scoping
letter to the Department of Agriculture to get into their system, and one to
Dosher Hospital Administrator outlining the agreement where they were suppose
to move out of the billing office in June, however; due to construction they
were unable to do so and effective February 1, the Hospital will begin paying
rent to the city. He stated that the fire station project is on schedule.
Alderman Potter stated that he was approached by a citizen wishing to serve on
the Committee and encouraged more interaction from the public, because this is
a large undertaking. Mayor encouraged active participation from the citizens on
all committees. Alderman Fisher informed the Board and public that Robert
Howard and Al Trunnell are citizen representatives on the Fire Station
Committee. Alderman Potter and Boguskie requested Patty Miller, Finance
Director attend the Fire Station Committee meetings.
Cat Committee - Mayor appointed a committee of citizens to meet and discuss
solutions to the cat problem in the city and report back at the next meeting.
Appointed were Peter McQueen, Linda Blasingame, Anita Taylor, Mary Jo Willis
and Dr. Bill Rabon. Mayor Spencer stated that she was advised that the
Veterinary Medical Association states that the only effective program is to
spay, neuter and adopt. She explained that one female cat can be responsible
for 8,000 kittens over a lifetime and encouraged responsible pet ownership.
Mayor asked that the Committee meet and select its own Chairperson.
VIII.
New Business
Planning Board-Public Hearing on Southport Crossing Zoning Reclassification.
Mayor stated the property owner requested that the rezoning be postponed
because they did not receive notification. Mr. Chad Hicks stated the Planning
Board on December 20 recommended the rezoning to R-20 and the property is
currently zoned multi-family and business. He explained that addresses of
property owners were taken from the County’s website. Staff discovered that the
property was not deeded until December 27. Attorney Isenberg explained that the
property was in foreclosure and receivership. The state court assumed
jurisdiction, however, the receiver did not receive notification either. The
law requires that the owner be served, but staff was unaware that the property
had been sold. He recommended the public hearing be postponed and send notices
to appropriate parties for February.
Alderman Fisher stated via telephone, Alderman Adams asked him to convey to the
Board know that he was against rezoning the property.
Alderman Boguskie asked if the Board could proceed with the hearing since
citizens had attended the meeting for this purpose. It was the consensus the
Hearing should be postponed. Alderman Brown moved, seconded by Alderman Frink
to postpone the rezoning until February. The votes were 3 yes votes: Aldermen
Brown, Frink and Fisher. 2 no votes: Aldermen Boguskie and Potter.
Zoning Reclassification for properties located north of 9th Street, South of
Fodale Avenue, East of Howe Street to Atlantic Avenue and abutting the East
side of Atlantic Avenue North of 8th Street and South of 9th Street from
Business District, Residential and Multi-Family to office/institutional.
Mr. Hicks stated this request deals with properties near Dosher Hospital. The
Planning Board and the petitioner believe the O and I zoning classification is
better suited for these properties rather than the current zoning. The
properties are mostly used for hospital projects. Mr. Hicks stated Mr. John
Sledge, owner of lots 5 & 6 requested his property not be rezoned, which is
currently zoned residential.
Public Hearing- Alderman Brown moved, seconded by Alderman Fisher to enter
Public Hearing on the above referenced. Vote carried.
Mayor asked for public comments.
Mr. Randy Fullwood of 109 East 8th Street stated that his father owns the
adjacent property and they were not notified of the rezoning. Mr. Hicks stated
notification was sent to the address on the county tax records.
Herman Floyd of 619 Fodale Avenue spoke against rezoning; however he was told
that his property was not in the rezoning.
Mr. John Sledge of 815 N. Atlantic Avenue stated he does not object to the
rezoning; however he request that his property remain residential.
Regular Session
No further comments, motion by Alderman Potter, seconded by Alderman Boguskie
to re-enter regular session, vote carried.
Attorney Isenberg stated it is the responsibility of the taxpayer to insure
that their address is correct on the county tax records, and if the notice was
sent to the address of record and advertised, the city was in compliance with
the law.
Alderman Potter motioned to approve the rezoning as shown on the map with Mr.
Sledge property remaining residential, and to amend the Comprehensive Plan
Future Land Use Map to reflect the zoning change, motion seconded by Alderman
Boguskie. 4 ayes, Aldermen Potter, Boguskie, Frink and Brown. 1 no, Alderman
Fisher.
B.   City Matters
Tax Release – Alderman Fisher moved, seconded by Alderman Brown to approve the
tax release for R. Moretz Services, Inc. tax parcel number 237LA033 in the
amount of $511.89 due to a measurement correction. The vote of approval was
unanimous.
Annexation Petition for Contiguous Annexation Pursuant to NCGS 160A-31 (Bonnie
F. Clevenger, Henry and Vanessa Stanley)
Alderman Fisher moved, seconded by Alderman Brown to approve the petition
requesting contiguous annexation. The vote was unanimous.
Contract Agreement – Mayor Spencer stated the contract agreement has been
rewritten at her request because she did not believe the original contract was
an agreement that the city should sign.
Alderman Brown moved, seconded by Alderman Potter to approve the contract
agreement with Southport Art Museum by gifting its Robert Ruark collection and
Fort Johnston collection to the City of Southport. Vote of approval was
unanimous. (Copy of executed contract on file in the office of the Clerk)
Budget Amendment Numbers 5 & 6
Budget amendments numbers 5 & 6 were presented by Patty Miller, Finance
Director including the financial summary for the month. Alderman Brown moved to
approve the amendments per recommendation of the finance director, seconded by
Alderman Fisher, vote carried.
Budget Amendment # 5
Fiscal Year 2007-2008
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session January 10, 2008 that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for revenues received from Insurance Recovery for damages
to a Police Vehicle to fund vehicles repairs and for revenues received from
Police grants to fund salaries, equipment, travel and supplies.
General Fund
                               Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section I
A.   Revenues Anticipated
      Insurance Recovery 1262.47
      Grant Revenues     4012.93
            Total  5275.40          4,870,869.57
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
      Police Department
         Salaries     2947.96
         Travel       72.27
         Equipment    923.58
         R/M          69.12
         R/M Vehicle  1262.47
            Total  5275.40          4,870,869.57
 
ADOPTED this the 10th day of January, 2008
/s/Mayor Sandra P. Spencer
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk to the Board of Aldermen
Budget Amendment # 6
Fiscal Year 2007-2008
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session January 10, 2008, that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for revenues received from appropriated fund balance for
funding of $100.00 bonus for each full-time employee which was approved in
December’s regular meeting.
General Fund/Electric Fund/Water-Sewer Fund
                                            Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section I, IV, V
C.   Revenues Anticipated
      Fund Balance
         General                   3555.21          4,874,425.78
         Electric                  485.60           6,802,485.60
         Water/Sewer               1087.83          3,063,630.83
D.   Appropriated Expenditures
         Salaries
         Admin                     541.40
         B&G                       216.56
         Garage                    216.56
         Police                    1,191.08
         Code Enf                  324.84
         Street                    270.70
         P & R                     324.84
         Tourism                   216.56
              Electric         451.17
         W/S                       1010.61
         Fica Gen                  252.67
         Fica El                   34.43
         Fica W/S                  77.22
 
ADOPTED this the 10th day of January, 2008
/s/ Mayor Sandra P. Spencer 
Attest: 
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, CMC
Clerk to the Board of Aldermen
City Code – Auxiliary Police Officers
Ms. Miller, Finance Officer presented the following amendment to City Code
explaining that no benefits are involved, however this ordinance needs to be in
place to insure that volunteers are covered under the city's workmen
compensation policy. Alderman Brown moved to approve the amendment, seconded by
Alderman Fisher, vote carried.
Amendment to Section 14-10 of the City Code – Auxiliary Police Officers
Section 14-10 Auxiliary Police Division
The Police Department of the City may establish an Auxiliary Police Division.
The auxiliary police division shall be a volunteer organization, whose members
shall serve without compensation, composed of as many members as may from time
to time be determined by the Chief of Police and approved by the City Manager.
Auxiliary Police, while undergoing official training and while performing
duties on behalf of the city pursuant to orders or instructions of the Chief of
Police of the City, shall be entitled to benefits under North Carolina Workers
Compensation Act and to any fringe benefits for which such volunteer personnel
qualify. (Ord. of 1-10-2008)
Adopted by the Board of Aldermen on January 10, 2008.
/s/ Sandra P. Spencer
Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
Resolution – Honoring Martin Luther King, Jr. Celebration
Alderman Frink moved to adopt a resolution in honor of the Martin Luther King
Celebration to be held January 20-21, 2008, seconded by Alderman Brown, the
vote was unanimous.
RESOLUTION HONORING DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING JR. CELEBRATION
WHEREAS, the Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Celebration Committee was formed and
entrusted with the responsibility to plan a community wide celebration to
appropriately honor this great leader; and
WHEREAS, Dr. Martin Luther King Celebration Committee has selected the dates of
Sunday, January 20 and Monday, January 21, 2008 to hold this celebration with
events scheduled to include a march, youth programs and other similar events;
and
WHEREAS,  the Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Celebration has established a mission
statement in which its most important goal is to bring people of the community
together for the purpose of promoting good will and harmony for the betterment
of the entire community; and
WHEREAS, it is extremely important that the great works and deeds of Dr. Martin
Luther King, Jr. be duly remembered, honored and recognized in this most
fitting and proper way.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Mayor and Board of Aldermen of
Southport recognizes January 20-21, 2008 as the official dates of celebration
by the Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Celebration Committee for the purpose of
honoring this great man and encourage all citizens to participate in the
activities scheduled.
THIS 10th day of January 2008.
/s/ Sandy Spencer, Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander- CMC
City Clerk
Forestry Committee Appointments: Mayor Spencer thanked Forestry Committee for
their service and recognized Trudy Young, a member of the committee who was
present. Alderman Brown moved, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to reappoint the
following persons to the Forestry Committee. The vote of approval was
unanimous.
·   Clay Fairley
·   Betty Timberlake
·   Bill Leuschner
·   Cissy Kitchin
·   Trudy Young
·   Bryan Wester
·   Chad Hicks appointed by Mayor Spencer to serve as a liaison.
Alderman Potter noted that staff in the Public Works Department found a tree
that was dying and they contacted Betty Timberlake of the Forestry Committee,
before acting on their own. He complimented Mr. Cardwell, Interim Public Works
Director for being proactive by getting the Forestry Committee involved.
Board Retreat – Saturday, February 23, 2008.
Cape Fear Council of Government - Alderman Boguskie moved to appoint Mayor
Spencer to the COG Board, seconded by Alderman Potter, vote carried.
Committee Appointments by Mayor Spencer:
Planning Board:
Liaison:      Donnie Potter (Jan-March 2008)
         Jwantana Frink (April-June 2008)
         Ed Boguskie (July0-September 2008)
         Jim Brown (October-December 2008)
         Nelson Adams (January-March 2009)
         Paul Fisher (April-June 2008)
         Donnie Potter (July-September 2008)
         Jwantana Frink (October -December 2009)
Electric Committee: Paul Fisher
         Jwantana Frink
         Donnie Potter
         Patty Miller
         Ralph Cardwell
Water/Sewer:      Ed Boguskie
         Donnie Potter
         Nelson Adams
         Ralph Cardwell
Transportation/   Donnie Potter
Traffic:      Jwantana Frink
         Jim Brown
         Chad Hicks
Fort Johnston:   Ed Boguskie
         Donnie Potter
         Jim Brown
         Randy Jones
Forestry Liaison:   Chad Hicks
Fire Station:      Sandy Spencer
         Nelson Adams
         Paul Fisher
         Ed Boguskie, Alternate
Recreation:      Jwantana Frink
         Paul Fisher
         Heather Hemphill
IX.
Other Business
Alderman Fisher presented a request for environmental scoping for use by the
United States Department of Agriculture-Rural Development in gathering
information in preparation for an environmental review which will put the City
in the system for grants and monies to assist with the financing of the Fire
Department. He motioned for approval, seconded by Alderman Brown, vote carried.
(Document on file in the office of the City Clerk)
A second letter was presented that will be sent to Dosher Hospital
Administrator setting forth terms and confirming understanding reached by him
and the Southport Fire Department Executive Committee concerning the use and
possession of Dosher's financial building now owned by the City.
·   Dosher Hospital may use and occupy the property until June 30, 2008, at
which time Dosher will vacate and remove all of its personal property from the
premises.
·   Beginning February 1, 2008, Dosher will pay rent to the City of Southport
in the amount of $800 per month.
·   In the event that Dosher remains in possession of the property after June
30, 2008, for any reason whatsoever, Dosher will pay rent in the amount of
$1500 per month beginning July 1, 2008. After June 30, 2008, if Dosher remains
in possession of the property, the lease shall be month to month only and may
be terminated by either party upon 7 days notice.
Banners
Alderman Potter stated the city has a contract with Brunswick Electric
Membership Corporation to hang banners for city authorized functions, but they
have been hanging banners from other areas which are costing the city. He
motioned to authorize the Director of Tourism and the Public Services Director
to develop a list of authorized city functions for which banners should be
hanged, seconded by Alderman Brown, vote carried.
Committees
Alderman Boguskie moved that all Committees provide the time, date and location
of their meetings to the City Clerk 10 days prior to their meeting in order
that notice may be posted. Motion seconded by Alderman Potter, vote carried.
Citizen Comments
Mr. William Chase of 6225 Navigator Way asked why the rezoning was approved for
Moore and 8th and Southport Crossing postponed. Attorney Isenberg explained
that the property owners of Southport Crossing asked that the rezoning be
postponed because they did not receive proper notification and the owners on
Moore and 8th were notified. He also questioned why the city would charge
Dosher rent and Alderman Fisher explained this was in accordance with an
agreement between Dosher and the City. If rent monies are paid, it will go into
the fire fund.
Mr. John Sledge asked that more information be placed on the city's website for
public access.
Executive Session – 8:50 p.m.
Alderman Potter moved to enter closed session to consider and give instructions
to staff concerning the handling or settlement of a legal matter. Motion
seconded by Alderman Brown, vote carried
Regular Session Reconvened- 9:35 p.m.
Alderman Potter moved, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to re-enter regular
session, vote carried.
Mayor Spencer announced that the Board in closed session received legal advice
from the City Attorney and staff regarding the Carolina Transformer case and
discussed the settlement offer from the PRP Group. Alderman Potter moved,
seconded by Alderman Boguskie to pay $40,000 in settlement to the PRP Group.
The vote of approval was unanimous.
Adjournment – 9:40 p.m
Alderman Frink moved to adjourn the meeting seconded by Alderman Brown, vote
carried.
___________________________
Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
______________________________
Regina W. Alexander, CMC-Clerk
EXECUTIVE SESSION
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN EXECUTIVE SESSION
MINUTES           JANUARY 10, 2008
 
The Board in closed session received legal advice from counsel regarding the
lawsuit B.I.G. Development vs. Zoning Board of Adjustment for the City of
Southport. The Board decided to file an answer at this time opposing the suit
but to consider settlement at a later time.
____________________________
Sandra P. Spencer
Mayor
______________________
Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
JANUARY 15, 2008
SPECIAL MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
JANUARY 15, 2008  1:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, NC
 
PRESENT:         Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
            Aldermen Nelson Adams, Donnie Potter, James Brown,
            Jwantana Frink, Ed Boguskie and Paul Fisher
STAFF:         Regina W. Alexander, CMC
            Patty Miller, Finance Officer
            Shaaron Aldridge, Payroll Clerk
OTHER:         Lee Hinnant, State Port Pilot
            Hartwell Wright, Human Resources, NCLM
            Lisa Kinsey, Member Services and Marketing Representative
The Board of Aldermen met in special session pursuant to notice duly advertised
and posted to discuss the process of hiring a City Manager. Mr. Hartwell
Wright, Human Resources/Employee Relations Consulting Manager of the North
Carolina League of Municipalities and staff member Lisa Kinsey, Member Services
and Marketing Representative were present to brief the Board in the selection
process of hiring a City Manager.
Mayor Spencer called the meeting to order. Mr. Wright gave the Board a handout
on the selection process for a City Manager. He noted the steps in acquiring a
manager.
·   Recruitment
·   Assessment
·   Selection
He stated since the City has advertised; the Mayor or Board should determine
who would handle the next phase of the process by contacting applicants,
scheduling interviews, etc. He recommended that names be kept confidential due
to personnel privacy laws, and suggested the Board contract with a third party
to perform background checks.
Alderman Fisher asked about the cut off date for ads, and whether or not the
City should continue accepting applications. Mr. Wright stated the Board should
decide if they wish to extend the application process until the position is
filled because there is no law stating a cutoff date must be placed in the ad.
Mr. Wright suggested the Board meet as a body to identify the criteria for a
City Manager and compare resume to the profile. He stated between $80,000 and
$90,000 as a possible starting salary, which he compared to other beach towns
of similar size. Alderman Adams countered by stating one cannot compare a
seaport town to a beach town when comparing salaries. Mr. Wright reiterated
that the salary is commensurate with experience and education. He stated the
process could take as long as six (6) months. He gave the Board a list of
possible questions to ask applicants and encouraged the Board to make the
process welcoming by considering travel pay and lodging expenses. He suggested
using teleconference or video conferencing for out of state applicants. Once
the applicant is selected and offered a job, the candidate may expect an
employment contract, which is the norm and recommended the City Attorney draft
a letter of offer/contract including salary and fringe benefits.
In answer to questions, Mr. Wright stated Managers do not have probationary
periods because most often, they have a contract, which protects both parties.
There is no statute requiring them to live within the City limits, but the
Board may establish policy or make this a part of the employment contract.
No further questions, Mayor Spencer and Board members thanked Mr. Wright for
the presentation.
Mayor Spencer asked the Board to consider two (2) additional items realizing
that the meeting was advertised as a Special Meeting . The City Attorney
advised her that this could be done if the Board agreed.
Alderman Potter moved to add the items, seconded by Alderman Boguskie, the vote
carried.
Mayor Spencer stated that she met with Mr. Bill Comninaki of Morehead Farms who
has proposed to the North Carolina Department of Transportation the concept of
a public/private four-lane connector roadway alternative to the planned North
Carolina Department of Transportation connector roadway providing private funds
to assist in building the roadway sooner than what DOT planned. Senator Soles
is aware of this proposal but request confirmation from the newly elected Board
in support of the project. Alderman Potter motioned to adopt the following
resolution, seconded by Alderman Fisher with copies forwarded to Senator R. C.
Soles, Representatives Stiller and Hill including a copy of the resolution
adopted on November 8, 2007. The vote of approval was unanimous.
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport recognizes the traffic
congestion existing at the intersection of Oak Island Road and Highway 211
which causes traffic flow and safety problems for the entire area; and
WHEREAS, the Board also recognizes the need to remedy this problem as
expeditiously as possible in order to increase traffic flow and reduce safety
hazards; and
WHEREAS, the Board supports the concept of a public/private four-lane connector
roadway alternative to the planned NCDOT connector roadway (TIP #R-3324) for
the following reasons:
1.   The roadway’s design and capacity make it a much more effective and direct
evacuation route in case of a hurricane or other disaster;
2.   The roadway’s design will create no significant impact on existing
commercial and residential developments;
3.   The roadway’s design will have minimal environmental impact, as adequate
lands are available for use in mitigation and preservation;
4.   The roadway’s design will leave ample space for any new highway
infrastructure that may be added in the future to accommodate the proposed
International Port in Southport;
5.   The roadway’s developers are working with the City of Southport to upgrade
and accommodate the city’s sewer needs resulting in less costs for the City;
6.   The roadway can be built sooner and at a significantly lower cost per mile
than the planned NCDOT roadway;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport that the City of Southport supports the proposed public/private four-
lane connector roadway alternative from the intersection of Oak Island Road and
Highway 211 through to Highway 87 to the planned NCDOT connector roadway (TIP #
R-3324) and hereby requests the State of North Carolina to take all necessary
steps and action to implement the plan, design and construction of said
alternative.
This the 15th day of January, 2008.
City of Southport
ATTEST:
/s/ Sandra P. Spencer
Mayor
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
Mayor Spencer stated that in the absence of a City Manager, the Clerk and
Finance Officer assumed additional duties and some of the Board members believe
the employees should be compensated. Alderman Fisher asked about the workload
and to describe definitively how each job has changed. He stated that he is not
opposed to an increase, and requested that Ralph Cardwell also be considered
since he is the Interim Public Services Director. It was noted by Alderman
Potter, Adams and the Mayor that Mr. Cardwell was given a 7.5% increase per
recommendation of Bob Grant and Rob Gandy before they retired. The Interim City
Manager was given a 10% increase by the Board at the last meeting. Alderman
Fisher moved to give the Clerk and Finance Officer a one-time bonus of $1000.
Alderman Potter stated that both of the employees have been accessible to
assist the Board especially new members with questions, research, data, and
whatever has been asked of them to keep the city operable, and he was not
alluding to a one time bonus but if it is the Board’s desire, be believes it
should be more. Alderman Fisher withdrew his motion and suggested a percentage
increase. Alderman Potter moved to grant a one-time bonus to the City Clerk and
Finance Officer in the amount of $2500. Alderman Boguskie seconded the motion;
the vote of approval was unanimous.
The Board briefly discussed an evaluation system, which the City does not have
in place to reward employees on merit. Alderman Fisher and Adams stated that a
salary study was performed in 2000 but never implemented. It was stated that
the new City Manager may wish to implement an evaluation system when hired; the
Board stated that they will leave this to his discretion.
Alderman Adams expressed appreciation to all city employees for their service
to the City and noted that all employees have been given raises annually.
The Board scheduled February 6, 1:00 p.m. for a workshop to review City Manager
applications.
Mayor Spencer encouraged members to attend the Martin Luther King, Jr.
Celebration on Sunday, January 20, and the Roundtable Breakfast on Monday at
Fort Caswell Baptist Assembly.
There was no further business, meeting was adjourned upon motion of Alderman
Brown, seconded by Alderman Potter, vote carried.
___________________________
Mayor
__________________________
City Clerk
FEBRUARY 6, 2008
SPECIAL MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, NC
FEBRUARY 6, 2008  1:00 P.M.
 
PRESENT:         Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
            Aldermen Ed Boguskie, Paul Fisher, Jwantana Frink,
            James Brown and Donnie Potter
ABSENT:         Nelson E. Adams, Alderman
STAFF PRESENT:      Regina W. Alexander, City Clerk
Mayor Spencer called the Special Meeting to order at 1:15 p.m.
Alderman Brown delivered the invocation.
Mayor Spencer announced that the meeting was advertised and posted in
accordance with provisions of the open meetings law. Mayor stated the purpose
of the special meeting is to discuss criteria and qualifications the city is
looking for in a City Manager, to review applications and resumes'.
The Mayor announced for the benefit of the press and public, due to personnel
laws and the privacy act, the Board would go into closed session in accordance
with G.S. 143-318.11 (a) personnel matters to consider qualifications,
competence, performance, character fitness, conditions of appointment or
conditions of initial employment of an individual officer, employee or
applicant.
Executive Session
Alderman Brown moved to enter executive session to review applications for the
position of City Manager, seconded by Alderman Fisher. Vote unanimous.
Regular Session
In regular session Mayor Spencer announced for the benefit of the public that
the Board agreed to interview four (4) candidates for the position of City
Manager and she would contact them to schedule interviews. She stated once the
date and time has been agreed upon; a special meeting will be called and
advertised accordingly.
Adjournment- 2:20 p.m.
Alderman Potter motioned to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Alderman Brown,
vote carried.
_________________________________
Mayor
___________________________
Clerk
Executive Session
 
Executive Session Minutes February 6, 2008
 
Mayor Spencer stated what she was seeking in a City Manager followed by each
council member, all stating education, preferably an M.A. in business or public
administration, some experience in coastal communities, planning, finance,
sewer, and excellent people skills. The Board reviewed each application rating
the applicants on a scale from 1-10.
The following received the highest rating and the Aldermen agreed upon the
following applicants to be interviewed:
Bruce Oakley
David Harvell
Chad Hicks
Alan Thornton
Two alternates were named, if required:
Robert A. Schaumleffel and Rick Benton.
Third group of applicants named if the above applicants were not satisfactory
to the Board.
Brandon Comeaux, Thomas E. McDonald, David L. Huseman, Lisa L. Hughes, Patrick
A. Thomas.
No further discussion, Alderman Boguskie moved to re-enter regular session,
seconded by Alderman Brown, vote carried.
___________________________
Mayor
_______________________
City Clerk
FEBRUARY 14, 2008
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
FEBRUARY 14, 2008 7:30 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, NC
 
PRESENT:         Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
            Aldermen Donnie Potter, Nelson E. Adams, James Brown, Ed Boguskie,
            Paul Fisher and Jwantana Frink
ABSENT:         None
STAFF:         Chad Hicks, Interim City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander, CMC, City Clerk
            Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
            Patty Miller, Finance Officer
            Ralph Cardwell, Interim Public Services Director
            Jerry Dove, Chief of Police
            Randy Jones, Director of Tourism
I.
Call to order – 7:30 p.m.
Mayor Spencer called the meeting to order at 7:30 p.m.
II.
Invocation
Rev. Mary Alice Haynie, of Southport Presbyterian Church delivered the
invocation.
III.
Approval of Minutes
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Brown to approve the regular
meeting minutes of January 10 with 1 noted correction by Mayor Spencer changing
spade to spay on page 3, and January 15th executive session minutes changing
the spelling of Comaneci to Cominaki, and special meeting minutes of January
15, 2008. The vote of approval was unanimous.
IV.
Approval of Agenda
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Brown to approve the agenda, vote
carried.
V.
Committee Reports
Alderman Fisher reported that informal bids were presented on February 12 to
the Electric Committee. Brunswick Electric Membership Corporation
representatives recommended that the bid be awarded to Sumter Builders as the
low bidder for $254,290.46. He explained that this was a budgeted item, and
does not require board approval.
Mrs. Mary Jo Willis informed the Board that the Cat Committee met at Dr.
Rabon's office and they discussed ways to solve some of the cat problems by
trap, neuter and release. Ms. Quinn spear-headed this effort and it worked for
a period of time but they are still having problems at their place of business
and questioned what, if anything can be done.
VI.
Departmental Reports
Departmental reports included in agenda packets.
VII.
Old Business
A.    Planning Board matter (Rezoning property located at Moore Street and
Ferry Road referred to as Southport Crossing - Public Hearing)
Mayor Spencer requested to hold all Public Hearings simultaneously.
B.    City Manager Search – Mayor reported that a Special meeting would be held
on February 21-22 from 3:00-5:00 p.m. to interview applicants for the position
of City Manager.
C.    Concession Agreement(s)-Southport Historical Society and the N.C.
Maritime Museum. Alderman Fisher noted that it has been customary to include a
clause in agreements pertaining to city buildings stating, "in the case of a
natural disaster, the City will take command of all buildings." He then
motioned to approve the concession agreements as written for $1 per year,
seconded by Alderman Brown, vote carried. (Copy of Agreement will be
incorporated in the minutes as Attachment #1)
D.   Public Hearing for March 13, 2008 for Voluntary Annexation of lots 11B,
12B, and 13B, Highland Park – Alderman Brown moved, seconded by Alderman Potter
to adopt the resolution authorizing the Clerk to advertise for public hearing
on the above referenced. Vote carried.
RESOLUTION FIXING DATE OF PUBLIC HEARING ON QUESTION OF CONTIGUOUS ANNEXATION
PURSUANT TO G.S. 160A-31
WHEREAS, a petition requesting annexation of the contiguous area described
herein has been received; and
WHEREAS, the City of Southport Board of Aldermen has by resolution directed the
City Clerk to investigate the sufficiency of the petition; and
WHEREAS, certification by the City Clerk as to the sufficiency of the petition
has been made;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport, North Carolina that:
Section 1.  A public hearing on the question of annexation of the contiguous
area described herein will be held at Southport City Hall at 7:30 p.m. on March
13, 2008.
Section 2. The area proposed for annexation is described as follows:
METES AND BOUNDS DESCRIPTION
(LOTS 11B, 12B AND 13B, HIGHLAND PARK AVENUE)
BEGINNING at an existing iron pipe in the Eastern right-of-way of Highland Park
Avenue, City of Southport (80' right of way), which iron pipe is located in the
Southwestern corner of Lot 11B, Highland Park Avenue as appears on map recorded
in Map Cabinet 18, page 523, Brunswick County Register of Deeds; from said
Point of Beginning runs thence South 70 degrees 00 minutes 00 seconds East with
the dividing line of Lot 11B and Lot 10B, Highland Park Avenue, 184.90 feet;
runs thence with the back lot line of Lots 11B, 12B and 13B North 20 degrees 00
minutes 00 seconds East 245 feet to the Northeastern corner of Lot 13B,
Highland Park Avenue; runs thence with the Northern line of Lot 13B North 70
degrees 00 minutes 00 seconds West 108.90 feet to a point; runs thence South 20
degrees 00 minutes 00 seconds West 18.80 feet to a point; runs thence North 70
degrees 00 minutes 00 seconds West 76 feet to the Eastern right of way of
Highland Park Avenue also being the Northwestern corner of Lot 13B, Highland
Park Avenue; runs thence with the Eastern right-of-way of Highland Park Avenue
South 20 degrees 00 minutes 00 seconds West 226.20 feet to the place and point
of BEGINNING and being Lots 11B, 12B and 13B of Highland Park Avenue as
recorded in Map Cabinet 18, page 523, Brunswick County Register of Deeds.
Section 3.  Notice of public hearing shall be published once in the State Port
Pilot, a newspaper having general circulation in the City of Southport at least
ten (10) days prior to the date of the public hearing.
This the 14th day of February, 2008.
/s/ Sandra P. Spencer
Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, CMC
Clerk
Clevenger-Stanley
VIII.
New Business
A.   Conditional Use Permit for Residential Amenity Center (Public Hearing)
B.   Rezoning request for Creola Inc. (Public Hearing)
PUBLIC HEARING: Alderman Fisher moved to enter Public Hearing, seconded by
Alderman Boguskie to receive public comments on rezoning the property referred
to as Southport Crossing, Conditional Use Permit for Residential Amenity Center
and Rezoning request for Creola Inc.
Southport Crossing: Mr. Hicks stated the property in question is zoned multi-
family and business. The Planning Board recommends that the property be rezoned
to R-20 (residential 20,000 sq ft.).
Mr. Jim Chirico, owner of the property asked the Board to send this matter back
to the Planning Board, which will give him sufficient time to develop a plan,
work with staff and the Planning Board to develop the property in a manner that
is conducive to Southport, and present it within six months.
∙   Mr. Kenneth Karn of 307 asked the Board to consider the Planning Board's
recommendation and look at some of the factors such as storm water run off.
∙   Mr. Harley Lemons of 6228 Navigator way and a member of the Planning Board
encouraged the Board to consider the Planning Board's recommendation by
changing the use to singe family residential.
∙   Ms. Carolyn Pryor, Dutchman Creek Road and representing Coastal Water Watch
asked the Board to consider the environment and help protect it.
∙   Ms. Susan Toth, 205 Holly Drive and a member of the Planning Board, stated
the Planning Board recommended rezoning the property because of the density,
effect on the environment and traffic. Density is a concern and urged the board
to accept the Planning Board's recommendation.
∙   Mr. Bruce Hackert, 6162 Riversound Circle stated their concern in the
Landing is traffic flow.
∙   Mr. Roy Pender, resident of Southport and Landscape Architect, stated that
the property-zoned multi-family would be horrendous for the land and R-20
zoning will encourage 1/2 acre lots, possibly could encourage a developer to
build the land out to the maximum, including small lots. The same consideration
should be given to this property that applied to the Landing and Harbor Oaks.
Pender stated the traffic is congested because there are only two bridges
leading out of town.
∙   Mr. Bill Chase of 6225 Navigator Way asked why this location would not be
appropriate.
∙   Mr. Al Worst of 5150 Riversound stated the speed limit on Ferry Road is 50
mph and it is time to stop development in this area.
∙   Mr. Steve Simon of 6211 Pebble Shore Lane stated it is his understanding
that the Planning Board is recommending the property return to its prior
zoning.
No further comments from the public on rezoning the property referred to as
Southport Crossing.
Rezoning Request for Creola Inc. from R-10 to O & I:
Mr. Hicks stated the Planning Board recommended a zoning change to property
located on Stuart Avenue owned by Roy Pender who is requesting the property be
rezoned from R-10 to O-I. He explained by changing this designation, the land
will become classified as recommended by the future land use plan. 
∙   Alderman Potter stated Planning Board members had questions about
subdividing the property and contacted him. He recommended this matter be
referred back to the Planning Board.
∙   Ms. Karen Knighton, resident of Stuart Avenue asked the Board to deny the
rezoning because the developer intentions are not clear and residents fear
commercial businesses taking over the neighborhood. She stated denying this
rezoning will help control growth.
∙   Mr. Pender stated that there are other commercial offices nearby and the
City's Comprehensive Plan calls for this property to be zoned office and
institution (O&I) which is a logical transition between commercial and
residential. He stated Atlantic Avenue is a city road and this rezoning would
stabilize rather than destabilize the property.
There were no further comments from the public on rezoning
415 Stuart Avenue, the property owned by Roy Pender.
Conditional Use Permit for Residential Amenity Center:
Mr. Hicks stated the Planning Board recommended that a conditional use permit
be granted for the Rivermist Amenity Center.
There were no public comments.
Alderman Adams motioned, seconded by Alderman Brown to close the Public Hearing
(s) and to re-enter regular session, vote carried.
Southport Crossing: Alderman Boguskie moved to accept the Planning Board's
recommendation to rezone the property to R-20, seconded by Alderman Potter.
Discussion: Alderman Fisher stated the CAMA Land Use Plan dated April 2007,
Comprehensive Plan and the UDO contradicts each other. Mr. Hicks stated the
Planning Board looked at the environmental land suitability before recommending
the change. Alderman Adams stated the Chirico's asked to work with the Planning
Board and staff and questioned why kill their idea before they are given an
opportunity to present it. If their plan is not acceptable, the city has the
right to deny approval. Alderman Brown stated it his belief that the
developer's plan should be looked at and stated the city can always rezone.
Alderman Boguskie stated the developer could come back and request a PUD after
rezoning is approved to residential. Alderman Potter suggested the Board accept
the recommendation of the Planning Board, and if additional Public Hearings are
needed, he is willing to hear the concerns.
Mayor Spencer called for a vote on the motion: The votes were 2 ayes to rezone
the property to R-20, Aldermen Potter and Boguskie. 4 noes, Aldermen Adams,
Brown, Frink and Fisher.
Rezoning Request for Creola Inc (415 Stuart Avenue-Roy Pender)
Alderman Fisher moved to rezone property located at 415 Stuart Avenue from R-10
to O & I, seconded by Alderman Brown. The votes were 4 ayes, Aldermen Fisher,
Brown, Adams and Frink. 2 noes, Aldermen Boguskie and Potter.
Conditional Use Permit for Residential Amenity Center - Rivermist:
Alderman Fisher moved, seconded by Alderman Brown to approve the Conditional
Use Permit for the Rivermist Amenity Center, the vote of approval was
unanimous.
C.   CAMA Grant Resolution for authorizing local government execution of a
Public access grant contract (Boardwalk Project) - Chad Hicks, Interim Manager
stated the City was awarded a $400,000 CAMA Access Grant in 2007 for the river
walk project. The City budgeted $280,000. City Engineers, W.K. Dickson informed
staff that the shoreline needs to be stabilized which will cost an estimated
$100,000-$200,000. He asked the Board to decide if they wish to continue with
the project or reject the grant. Mr. Hicks stated that a bulkhead was
recommended by the engineers instead of riprap. He stated the grant could be
refused and he has been assured by the State that the City may apply for other
grants.
D   Budget Amendments Number 7 & 8 – Alderman Fisher motioned to approve budget
amendments per recommendation of the Finance Director, seconded by Alderman
Boguskie. Vote carried.
Budget Amendment #7
Fiscal Year 2007-2008
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session February 14, 2008 that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for revenues appropriated from Restricted Fund Balance for
Fire Department for capital expenditures of architect fees for proposed new
fire station and revenues received from financing for the purchase of vehicle
for Buildings & Grounds which was approved by the Board in the August 14, 2007
meeting.
General Fund
                                             Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section I
A.   Revenues Anticipated
      Fund Balance Restricted for Fire 41,344.08
      Proceeds from Finance            16,670.00        4,932,438.86
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
      Fire Department
         Capital                    41,344.08
      Buildings & Grounds
         Capital Vehicle            16,670.00        4,932,438.86
 
ADOPTED this the 14th day of February, 2008
/s/Mayor Sandra P. Spencer 
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk to the Board of Aldermen
Budget Amendment # 8
Fiscal Year 2007-2008
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session February 14, 2008 that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for revenues appropriated from Fund Balance for
expenditures of Professional Fees for Superfund Settlement for Carolina
Transformer PRP Group.
 
Electric Fund
                               Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section I
C.   Revenues Anticipated
      Fund Balance       40,000           6,842,485.60
D.   Appropriated Expenditures
      Professional Fees  40,000           6,842,485.60
 
ADOPTED this the 14th day of February, 2008
/s/ Mayor Sandra P. Spencer
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk to the Board of Aldermen
E.    Tax Releases – Alderman Fisher moved to approve budget amendments upon
recommendation of Tax Collector, Mary Russ. Motion seconded by Alderman Brown
and the vote carried.
 
Bill/Parcel # Name/Acct. #  Date     Amt. Released Value Release Reason for
                                                                 Release
1993          Melissa       2007 tax 78.11         50,680        Data entry
237EC02002    Pfitzer                                            error
238IA002      Vance         2007 tax 275.72        178,210       House only 30%
              Reynolds                                           completed
              Robert                                             Boat kept in
5892          Futrelle      2007 tax 33.15         22,100        St. James
                                                                 Marina
5904          L. C. Hammond 2007 tax 7.74          5,159         Boat stored on
                                                                 Long Beach Rd.
Total                                394.72
 
F.    Planning Services Contract (Holland Consulting Planners) – Mr. Hicks
presented a contract with Holland Consulting Planners for an area annexation
study in the amount of $20,000. He stated the study should be completed before
a resolution of intent is considered. Alderman Boguskie moved to approve the
contract not to exceed $20,000 seconded by Alderman Adams, vote carried.
IX.
Other Business
A)   Stede Bonnet Historical Marker at NC 211 and Ferry Road – Mr. Hicks
informed the Board that a marker would be erected in May 2008 by the North
Carolina Department of Cultural Resources at NC 211 and Ferry Road. The marker
will give a brief description of the Pirate's life.
Alderman Fisher informed the Board that representatives from Bald Head Island
and DOT officials talked about improving Ferry Road. He suggested that the
Department of Cultural Resources be made aware of this so the marker will not
get damaged or have to be relocated.
B)   Multiple Sclerosis Awareness Week Proclamation – Alderman Fisher moved to
adopt the succeeding proclamation recognizing March 10-17 as Multiple Sclerosis
Awareness Week in the City. Motion seconded by Alderman Frink, vote carried.
MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS AWARENESS WEEK 2008
BY THE MAYOR AND BOARD OF ALDERMEN OF THE CITY OF SOUTHPIORT NC
PROCLAMATION
Whereas, MS is a chronic and disabling disease of the central nervous system in
which the progression, severity and specific symptoms cannot be foreseen; and
Whereas, every hour of every day someone new is diagnosed with MS, a disease
that can erode a person's abilities and hopes, halt a career and unravel the
fabric of families; and
Whereas, the North Carolina Chapters of the National Multiple Sclerosis Society
reports that in our state more than 10,000 people are affected by this
devastating disease, and multiple sclerosis generally strike young adults aged
20 through 40, attacking them in the prime of their lives; and
Whereas, the North Carolina Chapters of the National Multiple Sclerosis Society
have been committed throughout the years to heightening public knowledge and
insight about this devastating and disabling disease, and raising more than $8
million to find the cure for MS and develop effective treatments for the
disease, as well as provide a wide range of client programs; and
Whereas, research advances have brought us closer to finding the cure, much
remains to be done, and services must continue to be provided to those who live
with the disease; and
Whereas, finding the cause and developing a method of prevention for multiple
sclerosis is an important task that all Americans and North Carolinians should
support;
Now, Therefore, I Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor of the City of Southport do hereby
proclaim March 10-17, 2008 as "MULTIPLE SCEROSIS AWARENESS WEEK" in the City of
Southport and commend this observance to all our citizens.
/s/ Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, CMC
Clerk to the Board
X.
Committee and Board Appointments
Board of Adjustment – Mr. Hick's stated only two applications were received for
the Board of Adjustment. Alderman Fisher moved, seconded by Alderman Brown to
reappoint Dr. Jo Hatem, and appoint Jeff Ward to complete the unexpired term of
Ed Boguskie. The vote was unanimous.
Mayor Spencer appointed the following citizens to committees:
Utility Committee: Larry Coble and George Baker
Traffic/Transportation: Harley Lemons and Cecil Frank
Fire Station: Richard Bandera (Alderman Fisher informed the Mayor that the
Executive Committee is appointed by the Fire Chief)
Planning Board appointments will be placed on the March agenda.
XI.
Public Comments
∙   Kenneth Karn of 307 Park Avenue Extension stated the Board missed an
opportunity to rezone and believes the city is left unprotected.
∙   Joan Gaddis of Pebble Shore Lane stated that zoning is implemented to
protect citizens and does not believe rezoning and approval of conditional use
permits should be done so readily.
∙   Karen Knighton of 406 Stuart Avenue stated the zoning decision made by the
Board is not in the best interest of the citizens. She also enlightened the
Board about a program started at Southport Elementary to recycle and go green.
She encouraged the Board to do the same.
∙   Emily Humphreys, owner of Port City Java encouraged the Board to use county
water and showed a filter full of iron from her place of business.
∙   Lynette Nobles of 213 Stuart Avenue encouraged the Board to use county
water.
∙   Bill Chase of 6225 Navigator Way in the Landing alluded to the number of
times his lines have been flushed and advocated for county water.
Mr. Hicks stated that staff met with county officials about providing water to
the entire town and they will be providing cost estimates.
Alderman Adams stated that water is not the problem and questioned the sewer
bill doubling because of water usage. He also requested that the city well
remain operable in case of an emergency. Mr. Hicks stated staff is working on a
three-tier rate structure to bring before the Board for consideration.
XII.
Board Comments
Mayor Spencer acknowledged a thank you letter from Steve Bliss thanking the
city for receiving possession of the Robert Ruark artifacts. She also
referenced for information the DOT public hearing on February 26 concerning the
widening of NC 211, litter sweep April 19 - May 3rd and the Town of Ocean Isle
Beach asked the Board to adopt a resolution in support of Senate Bill 599 about
beach re-nourishment. Mayor Spencer stated the resolution would be placed on
the March agenda for Board consideration. Alderman Fisher stated he would not
support the resolution unless it includes rivers and waterways.
XIII.
Adjournment – 9:55 p.m.
No further business, Alderman Brown moved seconded by Alderman Adams to adjourn
the meeting. Vote carried.
____________________________
Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
________________________
Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
FEBRUARY 21, 2008
SPECIAL MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
FEBRUARY 21, 2008 3:00 P.M.
ALDERMAN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, NC
 
PRESENT:         Mayor: Sandra P. Spencer
            Aldermen: James Brown, Donnie Potter, Nelson Adams, Ed Boguskie,
            Jwantana Frink and Paul Fisher
ABSENT:         None
STAFF:         Regina W. Alexander-CMC
            City Clerk
Pursuant to notice duly advertised and posted, the Board of Aldermen held a
Special Meeting for the purpose of interviewing candidates for the position of
City Manager.
Mayor Spencer called the meeting to order at 3:00 p.m. The Mayor announced that
interview(s) would be conducted in closed session in accordance with the open
meetings law, the personnel and privacy act.
3:05 p.m. – Executive Session
Alderman Adams moved, seconded by Alderman Fisher to go into closed session to
interview applicants for the position of City Manager. The vote of approval was
unanimous.
The City Clerk requested to be excused during the interview process.
4:00 p.m. Regular Session Reconvened (Clerk Present)
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Adams to re-enter regular
session, vote carried.
In regular session, the Mayor announced no action taken in closed session.
Mayor Spencer stated the meeting was advertised as a Special Meeting to
interview applicants for City Manager. The Board of Aldermen Rules of Procedure
in G.S. 160A-71(b) (1) states no item may be added to the agenda for a special
meeting unless the council determines in good faith that the item to be added
must be discussed or acted on immediately. Mayor Spencer requested the Board
act on appointing a Committee to interview applicants for the Planning Board.
Aldermen Boguskie, Brown and Potter volunteered to serve on the Committee.
Mayor Spencer asked that Barbara Clewis, 
Chair of the Planning Board and Chad Hicks, Interim Manager be included as
members.
Alderman Adams asked that it be understood that once the Committee
recommendations are received, members of the Board may make recommendations if
they are not in agreement with names submitted.
ADJOURNMENT
Motion by Alderman Brown to adjourn, seconded by Alderman Potter, motion
carried.
________________________________
Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
_______________________________
Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
FEBRUARY 22, 2008
SPECIAL MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
FEBRUARY 22, 2008 3:00 P.M.
ALDERMAN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, NC
 
PRESENT:         Mayor Sandra P. Spencer
            Aldermen James Brown, Donnie Potter, Nelson Adams, Ed Boguskie,
            Jwantana Frink and Paul Fisher
ABSENT:         None
STAFF:         Regina W. Alexander-CMC
            City Clerk
Pursuant to notice duly advertised and posted, the Board of Aldermen held a
Special Meeting to interview candidates for the position of City Manager.
Mayor Spencer called the meeting to order at 3:00 p.m. The Mayor announced that
interview(s) would be conducted in closed session in accordance with the open
meetings law, the personnel and privacy act.
Invocation
Alderman Brown delivered the invocation.
3:06 p.m. – Executive Session
Alderman Brown moved, seconded by Alderman Fisher to go into closed session to
interview applicants for the position of City Manager. The vote of approval was
unanimous.
The City Clerk requested to be excused during the interview process.
5:30 p.m. Regular Session Reconvened (Clerk Present)
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Brown to re-enter regular
session, vote carried.
In regular session, the Mayor announced no action taken in closed session.
ADJOURNMENT – 5:35 p.m.
Alderman Potter moved to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Alderman Brown, vote
carried.
_____________________________
Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
____________________________
Regina W. Alexander, CMC-Clerk
FEBRUARY 23, 2008
BOARD RETREAT
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN BOARD RETREAT
FEBRUARY 23, 2008 ALDERMEN CHAMBERS
SOUTHPORT, NC     8:00 A.M.
 
PRESENT:         Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
            Aldermen Nelson Adams, Donnie Potter, James Brown, Paul Fisher
            Jwantana Frink and Richard "Ed" Boguskie
STAFF:         Chad Hicks, Interim Manager
            Regina W. Alexander, Clerk
            Patty Miller, Finance Officer
            Greg Cumbee, Fire Chief
            Randy Jones, Director of Tourism
            Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation
            Tammie Drew, Rescue Chief
            Ralph Cardwell, Interim Director of Public Services
OTHERS PRESENT:     Chip Leavitt, CEO-BEMC
            Don Hughes, Operations Manager
            Nicky Nance
            Debra Fish
            Kim
            Rob Michel, Financial Analyst
I.
Call to Order – 8:00 a.m.
Mayor Spencer called the meeting to order at 8:00 a.m.
II.
Invocation by Alderman Brown.
III.
Departmental Reports
1.   Fire Department
Chief Cumbee in presentation to the Board stated that the Fire Department
responded to 386 fire calls; there are 31 firefighters on the roster, 80% NC.
Certified, ISO 4 rating, and the goal is to replace the 4-wheel drive pumper
truck. Discussed the new fire department, which is needed due to growth. Fire
Department current need is to relocate the Nash Street Station to the area of
North Howe Street and East 11th Street. If the City continues to add hydrants
or buildings in the county district, a station should be located in the area of
Highways 211 and 133. An Executive Committee was formed for the new fire
department headquarters. The architect conceptual drawings have been presented
to the Board, architectural plans for the facility in progress, groundbreaking
and bids slated for 2008. They are exploring potential land purchase for a
substation to be located on Hwy 211. He recommended that financial incentives
be increased to retain firefighters, increase their share of retirement, and
maintain a life insurance policy for members and retirees. Chief Cumbee stated
that Southport is the only municipality without paid personnel. Firefighters
receive a $17 supplement for structural fires and $10 for other calls and fire
fees fund the fire department.
2.   BEMC
Mr. Chip Leavitt, Don Hughes, Nicky Nance and others were present to discuss
the City's contract and the electrical system. Mr. Hughes explained that the
City along with BEMC must be:
·   Environmentally responsible
·   Require input from staff and city officials on what the city want and how
to be environmentally responsible.
·   Don Hughes reviewed with the Board 2007 accomplishments in working with the
City including automated meter reading, improving overhead to underground,
accessibility to internal audit to determine if everyone is billed for street
lights, currently have 2,573 customers in Southport, revenue cost down and
power outages are down compared to previous years and improvement in overall
electrical operations.
3.   Planning and Administration
Chad Hicks, Interim Manager and Ralph Cardwell, Interim Public Works Director
discussed sewer reversal and told the Board the City cannot allocate sewer
because the Sanitary District is treating only `40,000 gpd. Board discussed the
situation; Alderman Adams suggested placing a moratorium on sewer. Chad Hicks
stated placing a moratorium on sewer would place the City at a disadvantage.
County water was discussed which would cost an additional $250,000 per year.
Staff will provide a rate schedule. City will maintain its well for emergency
use. Board discussed the old lines along 9th street and the quality of water
and the need to shutdown the 9th street well.
·   CAMA Grant for Boardwalk, total projected cost was $680,000. $400,000
grants award, $280,000 City's match with an estimated cost overrun of $150, 000
to $200,000 due to shoreline stabilization.
·   Elevator for City Hall (Alderman Fisher recommended applying for a grant)
·   Lack of space for employees
·   Expansion of Building Inspector's Office
·   Issues faced in Planning are the implementation of design standards
Carter Hubard, Engineer discussed the wastewater master plan, boardwalk and the
Lowe-White Park.
·   Current situation with the wastewater master plan are the existing
facilities, interconnect with South Brunswick Sanitary District and the
wastewater disposal site. He gave the projected population, customers and
estimated flow that was outlined through 2027 i.e. project description,
treatment, disposal and infiltration. Funding source includes Clean Water
Management Trust Fund, NC Construction grants and loans, impact fees and user
fees.
·   Fort Johnston Boardwalk budget $680,000 with $280,000 City cash match and
$400,000 Division of Community Management grant. Plan was revised.
·   Lowe-White Park, budgeted $394,000, $199,600 City cash match and $194,400
PARTF Grant, plan revised.
4.   Police Department
Chief Dove reported on the Police Department's accomplishments and goals for
2008.
·   Community Oriented Policing
·   High Impact (Youth Outreach Program)
·   Applied for a grant for video recording equipment
·   The department received a grant to pay overtime for extra patrols and
surveillance. As a result, the enforcement of the illegal drug violations
increased.
·   Promotes quality training programs i.e. in service for officers
·   Recommend City continues purchasing highway patrol vehicles, which saves
the City money.
·   Consider expanding force due to developments and annexations. Presented
salary/benefits study for Board review.
·   Equipment in excellent condition i.e. taser technology, pepper spray and
collapsible batons, handguns, rifles and shotguns. Request the purchase of two
single unit back seat cages to transport prisoners.
·   Goal is to certify each officer in 2008 as a Radar and Chemical Test
Operator
·   The need for additional space
5.   Southport Rescue Squad – Chief Tamie Drew
·   Increased membership to 33 active members
·   Full duty crew on 24/7
·   Decreased response times
·   Increased billing revenue
·   Responded to 1268 calls during 2007, 1149 in 2006, and 524 in 2005
·   Maintained the training level for the Rescue Technician Program
·   Compensate members who respond at $10.00 per call, and those working shift
$12.40 per shift
·   Recommended members are given a year-end bonus for retaining training and
compliancy standards required by Brunswick County and North Carolina.
·   Requested to purchase one full dress and work uniforms for each member.
·   Request to replace the 1990 model diesel unit #2572. It has over 50,000
miles and no safety features. The unit has had many mechanical problems.
·   Rescue Building need repairs i.e. replacing ceiling tiles, doors needed for
security to house patient files, member files and inventory supplies maintained
by the squad.
·   1st responders must be 21 years of age and certified to respond to calls
·   Complaints received about vehicles being at Wal-Mart Shopping Center and
restaurants. Chief responded that the unit is driven because a call may come in
and if squad members were in personal vehicles, they would have to drive their
car back to the station, pick up the ambulance and respond to the call. Having
the ambulance cuts down on response time and may save a life.
·   Alderman Adams discussed vehicles being logged in and out from the local
station, in addition to 911.
·   Chief referenced the Rescue Squad Report prepared by Mr. Griles of T.G.
Fire/EMS Systems and asked about the implementation. She stated if the City
decides to adopt the study, then the Chief would remain in position until
removed by the Board of Aldermen.
6.   Parks and Recreation – Heather Hemphill
·   Update on activities i.e. events and number of participants:
·   Summer Playground            120
·   Historical Bike Tours            35
·   4th July Children’s Games         220
·   Concerts on the Coast            ~200 each
·   Crab Derby               73
·   Kid’s Dog Show            12
·   Capt. Charlie's Fishing          82
·   Fall Festival               ~300
·   Santa’s Workshop            65
·   Santa Calling               10
·   Youth Basketball            130
·   Open Gym               ~2,500
·   Shag lessons (fall)            80
·   Shag lessons (spring)            80
·   Stretch and tone (MWF)         ~20 each class
·   Adult Karate               ~15 each class
·   Children’s Karate            ~17 each class
·   Senior Preventative Exercise (MWF)      ~12 – 15 each class
·   Tai Chi               ~10 – 15 each class
·   Kickboxing (MTTH)            ~12 each class
·   Cardio Aerobics (TF)            ~15 each class
·   Yoga (TTH)               ~10 each class
·   Back to School Teen dance         ~30
·   Polar Express Movie Garrison Lawn   ~100
·   Senior Cruisers
·   Monthly newsletter
·   Cards (MWF)
·   Crafts (M)
·   Trips 2x monthly
·   Luncheons 2x monthly
·   BP screening monthly
·   Movies
·   Egg Hunt *upcoming March 15, 2008: 10 am for 12 & under and 7 pm for 13 &
over
·   Kid’s Art Day * upcoming April 12, 2008. Co-sponsored with BCPR and AAS
·   Senior Cruisers* Building open (TWTH) from 9 am – 2pm
·   This year, our programs expanded greatly with the addition of space at Fort
Johnston. Before, we only had the Jaycee Building and the gym for classes. With
apartment 103 A, we have been able to offer multiple fitness classes on the
same evening. We added Yoga, another night of kickboxing, and cardio aerobics.
We also housed our summer playground out of the Recreation apartments on Davis
Street this past summer. The addition has worked out great for our programs.
FACILITY MAINTENANCE PROJECTS COMPLETED
·   Waterfront Park
The benches and shelters at Waterfront Park were repainted this year.
·   Senior Building
The senior building was relocated to Fodale Avenue last May.
ADA accessible ramp completed into entrance of building
Sidewalk connecting parking to ramp completed
CO obtained on February 13, 2008
Library set up in the building
·   City Gym
Put up new wall padding underneath goals to protect players from getting hurt
when they crash into the brick walls.
·   Fort Johnston
ADA accessible restrooms completed this fall
Mark constructed barriers around historical markers on property with rope
The Recreation Department office established at 103 B
Summer Playground program was housed in the 103 A and B units
Activities such as kickboxing, Yoga, and cardio aerobics are held at 103 A
Senior activities were held at 103 A but have moved to the senior building
making way for more classes to be held at 103 A.
·   Lowe/White Memorial Park
Received notification of NCPARTF grant award of $194.404.00. Working with W.K.
Dickson on permitting and contracting as a turnkey project, with a completion
time of January 2009. Construction of the park will contain tennis courts,
walking trails, ½ basketball court, children’s playground, toddler playground,
picnic areas, and restrooms.
·   Jaycee Building
Plan to replace appliances before June 2008
Anticipated Development for 2008/2009 fiscal year
·   Waterfront Park
Replace 4 picnic tables @~$320 per table and 12 park benches @ ~$660.00. The
tables are around 20 years old and the benches are rusting.
·   Jaycee Building/Senior Building
Develop a plan that incorporates both buildings and aesthetically ties them
together. Work with a Landscape Architect to develop a parking plan and flow of
traffic. Paint and update both facilities. The Jaycee Building needs a new
floor and bathrooms to be ADA accessible.
·   Staff
Director requested to change Maureen’s title from Recreation Assistant to
Program Coordinator with a salary increase from @20, 748.00 to $25,200.00 and
to increase Mark Sullivan’s salary from $26,640.64 to $29,200.00.
·   Steven's Park
Ms. Hemphill stated Mr. Chirico proposes turnkey job on the ball fields, but
nothing has been done. Discussion took place on getting the ball fields ready
for play and the need for a survey of the property realizing the possibility of
the City being without fields again this year.
7.   Finance and Audit – Patty Miller & Minton Padgett
Minton Padgett, City Auditor told the Board that effective July 1 new
accounting standards would go into effect. Because of changes, they can only
audit financial statements and not assist with bookkeeping practices. He
presented the City's financial analysis for year ending June 30, 2007 i.e.
general, electric and water funds. He stated that restricted funds should only
be used for the purpose set aside. Minton noted that the collection rate is
down, and attributed it to the economy. Alderman Fisher suggested offering a
tax incentive for paying taxes early. Minton stated the statutes allow 2%.
Ms. Patty Miller, Finance Officer discussed accomplishments and goals:
·   New cash collection software and new utility bill format
·   Hired a new employee, Zuleim Perez
·   New bill format for property taxes and County to City conversion software
·   Consolidation of cell phone companies from five to three with plans to
reduce this to one company
·   80% attendance at City's 2nd Annual Wellness Fair June 2007
Goals 2008
·   Upgrade to utility management software, web version and integrated credit
card software
·   Staggering of utility bills- Alderman Adams stated his disagreement because
this change may cause concern and confuse the elderly since they are accustom
to paying their bills when their social security checks are received.
·   Debt collection program i.e. NC debt set off and on line collections.
·   New website
·   Require direct deposit on payroll for all employees. Some Board members
discussed not requiring employees to direct deposit their paychecks.
·   Update personnel policy, Board agreed that this should be done by the City
Manager
·   Web training area for employees
·   Laser checks for payroll and accounts payables
·   Internal Control Policy
·   Cash Investment Policy
·   Disconnection of Power for delinquent accounts. Ms. Miller explained that a
policy was in place, but the City Manager used his discretion in this decision,
and as a result, some customers were allowed to go several months without
paying based on their reasons. Mayor stated if policies are in place that they
should be followed, but to be consistent; the city is not in the business of
making money but should receive the monies owed.
·   Alderman Adams suggested meter reading be brought in house rather than out
source it.
·   Employee concerns: Renovation of City Hall to provide safer and more
productive work areas, salary structure that is based on performance and
consistent with all departments, gym/workout area for employees.
8.   Tourism – Randy Jones
·   2007-2008 highlights including annual events, activities, new and
continuing activities, upcoming events, liaison work, facilities. i.e.
Southport Community Building, completed projects, projected request to replace
metal railings on Community Building porches, regular general maintenance of
building and grounds.
·   Southport Visitor's Center routine maintenance with plans to repaint
interior, wash and power wash exterior.
·   Garrison House, set up reservations office, DSI office, developed rental
procedures and policy. Worked with the newly formed Ft. Johnston Committee to
develop a strategic plan for the utilization of the property.
Alderman Adams asked who decided to rent the Garrison House. Alderman Brown
stated the Committee discussed allowing non-profit organizations to rent the
building for small events. Mr. Jones stated that he would get the Committee and
Board's input to determine an acceptable policy.
Alderman Fisher stated the Community Building needs to be completed and
consideration given towards expansion.
9. Board Discussion
Mayor Spencer told the Board she met with Betty Timberlake, a member of the
Forestry Committee. She explained that three to four of the live oaks planted
needed to be fertilized and asked for Board approval to pay for the
fertilization at a cost of $1,680.00. Consensus of the Board is to utilize
funds from fund balance to pay for the fertilization of the trees.
Alderman Adams questioned Ralph Cardwell, Interim Public Services Director
about contracting the mowing of City rights of way. He recommended the contract
not be renewed and the Buildings and Grounds Department be responsible for the
mowing. Mr. Cardwell told the Board if the contract is terminated, he would
need to purchase two (2) mowers that he did not budget for.
Alderman Fisher suggested the Board schedule another Retreat for Board members
only due to insufficient time to discuss items by the Board.
Executive Session 5:00 p.m.
Mayor Spencer requested an executive session to discuss hiring a City Manager.
Alderman Brown moved to enter closed session, seconded by Alderman Boguskie.
Motion carried.
Regular Session Reconvened – 5:30 p.m.
Mayor Spencer recessed the meeting at 5:35 p.m. to convene at a later date upon
motion of Alderman Potter, seconded by Alderman Brown, vote carried.
______________________________________
Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
________________________________
Regina W. Alexander, CMC
Clerk
Executive Session
 
Executive Session February 23, 2008
 
The Board discussed the hiring of a City Manager and Alan Thornton was the
leading candidate based on education, experience and accomplishments. The Board
agreed to authorize the Mayor to proceed with background checks.
No further business, motion to re-enter regular session by Alderman Brown,
seconded by Alderman Potter, vote carried.
__________________________________
Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
________________________________
Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
MARCH 6, 2008
SPECIAL MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN SPECIAL MEETING
MARCH 6, 2008     7:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
            Aldermen Nelson Adams, Donnie Potter, James Brown,
            Ed Boguskie, Jwantana Frink and Paul Fisher
ABSENT:         None
STAFF:         Chad Hicks, Interim City Manager
            Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
            Regina W. Alexander, City Clerk
Mayor Spencer called the Special Meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. pursuant to
notice advertised and posted.
Alderman Brown delivered the invocation.
Mayor Spencer announced that the Special Meeting was called to discuss
personnel and deferred to Attorney Isenberg. Mr. Isenberg stated the Board
could only go into closed session "to consider the qualifications, competence,
performance, character, fitness, conditions of initial employment or an
individual public officer or employee or prospective public officer or
employee; or to hear or investigate a complaint, charge or grievance by or
against an individual public officer or employee. General personnel policy
issues may not be considered in a closed session. A public body may not
consider the qualifications, competence, performance, character, fitness,
appointment or removal of a member of the public body or another body and may
not consider or fill a vacancy amongst sits own membership except in an open
meeting in accordance with G.S. 143-318.11."
Alderman Brown stated he called the meeting to discuss personnel. Attorney
Isenberg stated that the Board could enter closed session to receive legal
advice from Counsel, but not to discuss its own Board members.
7:05 pm - Closed Session
Alderman Fisher motioned to enter closed session to request legal advice from
the City Attorney, seconded by Alderman Brown, vote unanimous.
(Closed session minutes will remained sealed until public inspection no longer
frustrates the purpose of the executive session.)
Regular Session Reconvened – 8:00 p.m.
Alderman Brown moved to re-enter regular session, seconded by Alderman Adams,
vote carried.
In regular session, Attorney Isenberg stated that the purpose of the closed
session was to provide legal counsel on the Board's rights and responsibilities
as Aldermen and as a Board.
Adjournment – 8:05 p.m.
Alderman Adams motioned to adjourn, seconded by Alderman Fisher. Vote was
unanimous.
____________________________
Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
______________________________
Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
Executive Session
 
Executive Session Minutes March 6, 2008
 
Attorney Isenberg explained that the City's Charter authorizes the Board to
hire and fire only the City Manager, Clerk and Attorney. The City Manager has
supervisory authority over all other employees. He explained that if a Board
member believes that there is a problem with an employee, they should report
this to the City Manager and he should investigate the matter. Attorney
Isenberg stated that no one Board member has individual authority, only as a
Board.
Alderman Brown stated if a Board member has a problem with employees or any
staff concerns, it should be addressed to the City Manager, which has always
been his policy.
Alderman Fisher reiterated for point of clarification, that an individual board
member has no authority to go to any department head or city employees
representing themselves as a Board, unless the Board of Aldermen gives them
that authority.
Alderman Potter stated that he ran on a platform to do whatever he could to
investigate and help combat drugs in the City. After he was elected, there were
rumors circulating that the Chief would be fired, which he believes came from
the outgoing Board. He stated that he went to the Chief to discuss some
concerns that were addressed to him. During their conversation, he promised the
Chief that if he heard anything about the Police Department that he would come
to him as a friend and brother. He stated that he did receive complaints about
cases not being solved, drugs in the City, and the disillusionment by some of
the department's officers. He met with the Chief to let him know what was being
said, and during their discussion, the Chief offered to resign. Alderman Fisher
asked Alderman Potter if he told the Chief that he had four board members that
wanted him to resign. Alderman Potter answered in the affirmative. Alderman
Potter was asked to name the Board members, which were Aldermen Frink,
Boguskie, Mayor Spencer and himself. Alderman Fisher stated that the Mayor is
not a Board member. Alderman Frink stated that she did talk with Alderman
Potter and told him, if he had an issue to take it before the entire Board.
Alderman Potter acknowledged if he did anything wrong, or acted inappropriately
he would apologize.
Alderman Adams stated that he has been in law enforcement 30+ years and
investigations takes time. He stated if drugs are to this extent in the City,
then the City should hire another Police Officer.
Mayor Spencer stated that the people elect the Board, and the Board should act
as professionals.
Alderman Adams stated the Board should work together as a body.
Alderman Brown explained that he called the meeting to bring unity and to
clarify the Board's role.
Attorney Isenberg suggested the Board direct the Interim City Manager to meet
with each Police Officer in order to determine the morale and needs of the
Police Department.
In other business, Mayor Spencer asked for the Board's approval to proceed with
background checks on applicants for the position of City Manager. Alderman
Brown moved to authorize the Mayor to proceed with background checks, seconded
by Alderman Frink, vote carried.
__________________________________
Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
___________________________
Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
MARCH 13, 2008
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
MARCH 13, 2008    7:30 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, NC
 
PRESENT:            Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
               Aldermen Nelson Adams, Donnie Potter, James Brown,
               Richard "Ed" Boguskie, Jwantana Frink and Paul Fisher
STAFF PRESENT:         Chad Hicks, Interim Manager
               Regina Alexander, CMC, Clerk
               Patty Miller, Finance Officer
               Ralph Cardwell, Public Services Director
ABSENT:            Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
I.
Call to Order
Mayor Spencer called the meeting to order at 7:33 p.m.
II.
Invocation
Reverend Skip Williams, Pastor of Trinity United Methodist Church delivered the
invocation.
III.
Approval of Minutes
Special Meeting: Alderman Brown moved to approve the minutes of February 6,
2008, seconded by Alderman Frink. Vote unanimous.
Executive Session: Alderman Boguskie moved to approve the minutes of February
6, 2008, seconded by Alderman Frink. Vote unanimous.
Regular Meeting: Alderman Brown moved to approve the regular meeting minutes of
February 14, 2008, seconded by Alderman Frink. Vote unanimous.
Special Meeting: Alderman Brown moved to approve the Special Meeting Minutes of
February 21, 2008, seconded by Alderman Frink. Vote unanimous.
Special Meeting: Alderman Brown moved to approve the Special Meeting Minutes of
February 22, 2008, seconded by Alderman Frink. Vote unanimous.
IV.
Approval of Agenda
Mr. Hicks asked that the CAMA grant contract be placed under old business for
discussion. Alderman Boguskie moved to amend the agenda to add the above
request, seconded by Alderman Brown. Vote carried.
V.
Committee Reports
Mr. Hicks presented the following recommendations from the Committee charged
with interviewing applicants for the Planning Board:
1.   Reappoint Mary Ellen Poole (in town full)
2.   Reappoint Harley Lemons (in town full)
3.   Reappoint Susan Toth (ETJ full)
4.   Reappoint Stephanie Van Noordt by moving to full ETJ member
5.   Appoint Connie Keller as ETJ alternate member.
Alderman Adams asked if nominations would be accepted from the floor. Mayor
Spencer proceeded to open the floor for nominations.
Alderman Frink stated before action is taken on the recommended names, it is
her belief that the Board need to discuss the recommendations from the
Committee since the Planning Board is the heart of the City, and she does not
believe a vote should be taken at this meeting.
Alderman Potter suggested the Board accept the recommendations of the Committee
since the above named individuals have volunteered their time to the Planning
Board and deserves to be reappointed.
Mayor Spencer stated that the Committee was appointed to make recommendations
and they did as requested.
Alderman Adams stated that a Committee only makes recommendations, which does
not mean a nomination cannot be made from the floor.
Alderman Fisher stated other people applied to the Planning Board and he will
make a nomination from the floor.
Alderman Frink motioned, seconded by Alderman Adams to table the in-town and
ETJ Planning Board appointments until April. The votes were 2 ayes: Aldermen
Frink and Adams. 4 noes: Aldermen Boguskie, Potter, Fisher and Brown.
Mayor Spencer called for nominations from the floor for the first in town full
member:
Alderman Fisher nominated Jim Powell – votes were 4  ayes Aldermen Adams,
Fisher, Frink and Brown. 2 noes; Aldermen Boguskie and Potter. (Powell
appointed)
Mayor Spencer called for nominations for the second in town full member:
Alderman Potter nominated Harley Lemons – votes were; 2 ayes; Aldermen Potter
and Boguskie. 4 noes; Aldermen Adams, Brown, Frink and Fisher.
Alderman Brown nominated Mary Ellen Poole - votes were 6 ayes Aldermen Brown,
Frink, Potter, Boguskie, Adams and Fisher. (Mary Ellen Poole appointed)
Mayor Spencer called for nominations for the first full time ETJ member:
Alderman Fisher nominated Tish H. Hatem – votes were 4 ayes Aldermen Fisher,
Adams, Brown and Frink. 2 noes; Aldermen Potter and Boguskie. (Tish Hatem
appointed)
Mayor Spencer called for nominations for the second full time ETJ member:
Alderman Fisher nominated Stephanie Van Noordt – votes were 4 ayes Alderman
Fisher, Adams, Brown and Frink. 2 noes; Aldermen Boguskie and Potter.
(Stephanie Van Noordt appointed)
Alderman Potter nominated Susan Toth – votes were 2 ayes Aldermen Potter and
Boguskie. 4 noes; Aldermen Adams, Brown, Frink and Potter.
Mayor called for nominations for ETJ alternate member.
Alderman Boguskie nominated Susan Toth and she declined.
Alderman Brown nominated Connie Keller as the ETJ alternate member. There being
no other nominations, Mayor Spencer announced that Ms. Keller was appointed by
acclamation. (Connie Keller appointed)
VI.
Departmental Reports
Reports from city department included in Board's agenda material.
VII.
Old Business
a)   Public Hearing on contiguous voluntary annexation (Clevenger and Stanley).
Alderman Adams moved to go into Public Hearing, seconded by Alderman Brown.
Vote unanimous.
There were no public comments. Alderman Adams moved to re-enter regular
session, seconded by Alderman Boguskie, vote carried.
Regular Session
b)   Annexation Ordinance-Alderman Fisher moved to adopt the following
annexation ordinance, seconded by Alderman Brown, the vote of approval was
unanimous.
AN ORDINANCE TO EXTEND THE CORPORATE LIMITS OF THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT, NORTH
CAROLINA
(Contiguous)
WHEREAS, the City of Southport has been petitioned under G.S.160A-31 to annex
the area described below; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen has by resolution directed the City Clerk to
investigate the sufficiency of the petition; and
WHEREAS, the City Clerk has certified the sufficiency of the petition and a
public hearing on the question of this annexation was held at Southport City
Hall at 7:30 p.m. on March 13, 2008, after due notice by publication in the
State Port Pilot on February 20 and 27, 2008, and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen finds that the petition meets the requirements
of G.S. 160A-31;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of Southport, North
Carolina that:
Section 1.   By virtue of the authority granted by G.S. 160A-31, the following
described territory is hereby annexed and made part of the City of Southport
effective immediately:
EXHIBIT A
METES AND BOUNDS DESCRIPTION
(LOTS 11B, 12B AND 13B, HIGHLAND PARK AVENUE)
BEGINNING at an existing iron pipe in the Eastern right-of-way of Highland Park
Avenue, City of Southport (80' right of way), which iron pipe is located in the
Southwestern corner of Lot 11B, Highland Park Avenue as appears on map recorded
in Map Cabinet 18, page 523, Brunswick County Register of Deeds; from said
Point of Beginning runs thence South 70 degrees 00 minutes 00 seconds East with
the dividing line of Lot 11B and Lot 10B, Highland Park Avenue, 184.90 feet;
runs thence with the back lot line of Lots 11B, 12B and 13B North 20 degrees 00
minutes 00 seconds East 245 feet to the Northeastern corner of Lot 13B,
Highland Park Avenue; runs thence with the Northern line of Lot 13B North 70
degrees 00 minutes 00 seconds West 108.90 feet to a point; runs thence South 20
degrees 00 minutes 00 seconds West 18.80 feet to a point; runs thence North 70
degrees 00 minutes 00 seconds West 76 feet to the Eastern right of way of
Highland Park Avenue also being the Northwestern corner of Lot 13B, Highland
Park Avenue; runs thence with the Eastern right-of-way of Highland Park Avenue
South 20 degrees 00 minutes 00 seconds West 226.20 feet to the place and point
of BEGINNING and being Lots 11B, 12B and 13B of Highland Park Avenue as
recorded in Map Cabinet 18, page 523, Brunswick County Register of Deeds.
This being the same property as shown on the plat entitled “Area Annexed by the
City of Southport, N. C. on March 13, 2008, recorded in Map Cabinet _____at
Page _____________of the Brunswick County Registry.
Section 2.   Upon and after March 13, 2008 the above-described territory and
its citizens and property shall be subject to all debts, laws, ordinances and
regulations in force in the City of Southport and shall be entitled to the same
privileges and benefits as other parts of the City of Southport. Said territory
shall be subject to municipal taxes according to G.S. 160A-58.10.
Section 3.   The Mayor of the City of Southport shall cause to be recorded in
the office of the Register of Deeds of Brunswick County, and in the office of
the Secretary of State at Raleigh, North Carolina, an accurate map of the
annexed territory, described in Section 1 above, together with a duly certified
copy of this ordinance. Such a map shall also be delivered to the County Board
of Elections, as required by G. S. 163-288.1.
ADOPTED, this the 13th day March 2008.
/s/ Sandra P. Spencer
Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
c)   CAMA Grant – Mr. Hicks discussed the River walk Project and the cost to
the city because of shoreline stabilization. He related that staff has talked
with the City Engineer, which has talked with CAMA about receiving additional
funds, however there is no guarantee and the contract terminates October 2009.
Alderman Brown stated monies would have to be put in the budget. Alderman
Fisher asked that the City go back to the State with the original design for
the River walk Project because it got off tract and was scaled back.
Alderman Adams motioned that the City not make application for the grant with
the current sketch plan, re-submit the original plan and reapply for the 2009
grant cycle. Alderman Fisher seconded the motion and the vote carried.
VIII.
New Business
a)   Water rate structure change for County water- Mr. Hicks reported that the
entire City is on county water and the well has been turned off. The tiered
water rate schedule was presented for Board approval. Alderman Fisher noted
that the City discussed connecting to County water in 1994, but certain
requirements and plans were set forth in order for this to be accomplished.
Alderman Fisher motioned, seconded by Alderman Brown to approve the rate
structure for county water. Vote unanimous.
Meter Size       Base Rate for Inside City Limits  Base Rate for Outside City
                                                   Limits
3/4" meter       $15.00                            $30.00
1"               $25.00                            $50.00
1-1/4"           $28.00                            $56.00
1-1/2"           $42.00                            $84.00
2"               $58.00                            $116.00
4"               $160.00                           $320.00
6"               $300.00                           $600.00
Usage Rates
3001-6000 gals.  $3.10 per 1000 gals
6001-10,000 gals $3.35 per 1000 gals
10,001-25,000    $3.60 per 1000 gals
25,001-50,000    $3.85 per 1000 gals
50,001-75,000    $4.10 per 1000 gals
75,001-100,000   $4.35 per 1000 gals
100,001-200,000  $4.60 per 1000 gals
200,001-300,000  $4.85 per 1000 gals
300,001-400,000  $5.10 per 1000 gals
400,001-500,000  $5.35 per 1000 gals
over 500,000     5.60 per 1000 gals
 
b)   Tax Liens – Alderman Fisher motioned, seconded by Alderman Brown to
authorize Mary Russ, Tax Collector to advertise tax liens on April 9. Vote
unanimous.
c)   Proclamation Celebrating Arbor Day in Southport – Motion by Alderman
Fisher to adopt, seconded by Alderman Brown, vote carried.
ARBOR DAY PROCLAMATION
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/IMAGES/0-0-0-46.jpg]
WHEREAS, in 1972, J. Sterling Morton proposed to the Nebraska Board of Agriculture that a special day be
set aside for the planting of trees, and
WHEREAS, this holiday called Arbor Day , was first observed with the planting of more than a million trees
in Nebraska, and
WHEREAS, Arbor Day is now observed throughout the nation and the world, and
WHEREAS, trees can reduce the erosion of our precious topsoil by wind and water, cut heating and cooling
costs, moderate the temperature, clean the air, produce life-giving oxygen, and provide habitat for
wildlife, and
WHEREAS, trees are a renewable resource giving us paper, wood for our homes, fuel for our fires, and
beautify our community, and
WHEREAS, trees in our city increase property values, enhance the economic vitality of business areas, and
beautify our community, and
WHEREAS, trees wherever they are planted are a source of joy and spiritual renewal.
NOW, THEREFORE,  I Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor of the City of Southport, N.C. do hereby proclaim March 14,
2008 as ARBOR DAY in the City and urge all citizens to celebrate and support efforts to protect our trees
and woodlands, and
FURTHER, I urge all citizens to plant trees to gladden the heart and promote the well-being of this and
future generations.
DATED, this 13th day of March, 2008.
/s/ Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/IMAGES/0-0-0-
48.jpg]                                       [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/IMAGES/0-0-0-50.jpg]
 
d)   Budget Amendments – Alderman Fisher moved, seconded by Alderman Frink to
approve budget amendments numbers 9, 10, and 11 per request of Patty Miller,
Finance Officer. Vote carried.
Budget Amendment # 9
Fiscal Year 2007-2008
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session March 13, 2008 that the following Budget Amendment
be adopted for mid-year adjustments within the Water/Sewer Fund. There will be
no change in the Budget.
 
Water/Sewer Fund
                               Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section V
B.   Appropriated Expenditur0.00             3,063,631
 
ADOPTED this the 13thh day of March 2008.
/s/ Mayor Sandra P Spencer
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, CMC
Clerk to the Board of Aldermen
Budget Amendment #10
Fiscal Year 2007-2008
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled regular session on March 13, 2008, that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for funding fiscal year-end line item budget
reclassifications. There will be no change in total fund budget with this
amendment.
 
Electric Fund
Section IV
                               Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
B.   Appropriated Expenditur0.00             6,842,485
 
ADOPTED this the 13th day of March 2008.
/s/Mayor Sandra P Spencer
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, CMC
Clerk to the Board of Aldermen
Budget Amendment #11
Fiscal Year 2007-2008
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, in Board
assembled regular, session on March 13, 2008, that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for funding fiscal mid-year line item budget adjustments.
There will be no change in total fund budget with this amendment.
General Fund
Section I
                               Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
C.   Appropriated Expenditures
         Board        0.00             195,154
         Administratio(6900)           444,947
         Buildings & G(3000)           1,137,662
         Garage       (9500)           183,183
         Police       16,000           868,763
         Fire Departme16,100           389,115
         Code Enforcem(16,000)         265,920
         Rescue       3300             168,755
         Street       0.00             249,395
         Solid Waste  0.00             92,500
         Parks & Recre0.00n            709,058
         Tourism      0.00             202,133
Total                          0.00
 
ADOPTED this the 13th day of March, 2008
/s/Mayor Sandra P Spencer
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk to the Board of Aldermen
e)   Resolution of Consideration for Annexation – Mr. Hicks told the Board that
Holland Consulting Planners is performing a study on annexing potential areas.
He stated this necessitates adopting a resolution of intent, which does not
annex anyone but is required by state law of the intent to take in new areas. A
map is available for review in the office of the City Clerk. He stated that he
met with representatives from Progress Energy about the possibility of annexing
the bridge across the canal. Additional information should be forthcoming
including the report from Holland.
Alderman Fisher moved to adopt the resolution of consideration, seconded by
Alderman Boguskie. The vote of approval was unanimous.
RESOLUTION OF CONSIDERATION
A RESOLUTION IDENTIFYING THE AREA DESCRIBED HEREIN AS BEING UNDER CONSIDERATION
FOR ANNEXATION AND NOTIFICATION TO CERTAIN PROPERTY OWNERS OF THEIR RIGHTS OF
DELAYED ANNEXATION OF QUALIFIED PROPERTIES
BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport that:
Section 1. Pursuant to G. S. 160A-37(i), the following described area(s) is/are
hereby
Identified as being under consideration for future annexation by the City of
Southport, under the provisions of Chapter 160A, Article 4A, Part 2 of the
General Statutes of North Carolina:
Those certain areas identified as “Areas under Consideration for Annexation” on
that certain map attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference. A large
scale copy of this map is on file in the office of the City Clerk of the City
of Southport and is also incorporated herein by reference.
Section 2. Owners of agricultural land, horticultural land and forestland
within the area(s) under consideration for annexation as described in Section 1
above are hereby notified that they may have rights to a delayed effective date
of annexation. G.S. 160A-37(f1) and (f2) provide that land being taxed at
present-use value qualifies for delayed annexation, and land that is eligible
for present-use value taxation but which has not been in actual production for
the time period required by G. S. 105-277.3 may qualify for delayed annexation
by making application to the Brunswick County Tax Assessor for certification.
For qualified tracts, the annexation will not become effective for most
purposes until the last day of the month in which the tract or part thereof
becomes ineligible for present-use value classification under G.S. 105-277.4 or
no longer meets the requirements of G. S. 160A-37(f1)(2). Until annexation of a
tract becomes effective, the tract will not be taxed by the City and will not
be entitled to services from the City.
Section 3. A copy of this resolution shall be filed with the City Clerk.
Section 4. This resolution shall remain effective as provided by G.S. 160A-37
(i).
Adopted, this 13th day of March 2008.
/s/ Sandra P. Spencer
Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, CMC
Clerk
f)   Tax Releases - Motion by Alderman Fisher, seconded by Alderman Brown to
approve the following tax releases per request of Mary Russ, Tax Collector.
Vote was unanimous.
Bill /Parcel Name &        Date     Amt. Released Value Released Reason for
#            Account #                                           Release
5951         John McClimon 2007 tax $23.75        15,714         Boat Moved in
                                                                 2006
5953         Claude        2007 tax 5.50          3,640          Boat sold 12/
             McKernan                                            2006
5987         Kurt Scheetz  2007 tax 326.71        215,842        Boat sold 8/
                                                                 2006
6024         Paxton        2007 tax 29.46         19,494         Boat sold 12/
             Watkins                                             2006
6034         Louis P Wise  2007 tax 41.49         27,455         Boat at South
                                                                 Harbor
5834         John E.       2007 tax 16.25         10,750         Boat sold in
             Aldridge                                            2006
5836         Raymond       2007 tax 64.00         42,353         Boat sold 12/
             Anderson                                            2006
5861         Franklin      2007 tax 4.93          3,257          Boat at South
             Coker                                               Harbor
5871         William Deale 2007     19.13         12,662         Boat is not in
                                                                 Southport
5935         David F.      2007     70.50         46,656         Boat sold 7/
             Kessler                                             2006
5946         Charles       2007     121.65        80,500         Boat at South
             Mahoney                                             Harbor - 2007
TOTAL                               723.37
 
IX.
Other Business
a)   Southport Oak Island Chamber of Commerce – Karen Sphar, Executive Director
and Wayne Berry, President
Ms. Sphar, Executive Director of the Southport-Oak Island Chamber of Commerce
told the Board that the Chamber would be relocating due to the new road coming
through where they are currently situated. Once a location is acquired, staff
and board members will be apprised. She asked that the Board consider funding
to the Chamber during its budget process and gave out packets of information
for review.
b)   Communities in Schools – Candice Hobbs
Ms. Hobbs presented information on the Communities in Schools and their 2006-
2007 summary statistics. Programs include:
·   Adopt a School and Volunteer Program
·   Family Resource Centers
·   Family Literacy Center
·   Parenting Education Program
·   After School Programs
·   Teen Court/Brunswick County
·   Teen Court/Columbus county
·   Academic Scholarships
She asked that the Board consider Communities in Schools during the budget
process with a contribution of $1,000.
X.
Public Comments
Mary Ellen Poole of 217 Willis Drive asked when would the ETJ appointments be
effective. Mayor Spencer stated that the recommendations would not be final
until approved by the County Commissioners. Ms. Poole asked that the Board
consider public input concerning the River Walk because some residents are
concerned about the cost and maintenance, and others believe that it will have
an adverse impact on the natural beauty of the area.
Mr. Buddy Barnes of 425 West West Street and a member of the Planning Board
thanked Barbara Clewis, Susan Toth and Harley Lemons for their service as
members of the Planning Board.
Mr. Harley Lemons of 6228 Navigator Way thanked the Board for allowing him to
serve on the Planning Board for the past 3 years and stated his concerns are
density and control of development. He challenged the Board of Aldermen and the
Planning Board to listen to the citizens.
XI.
Board Comments
Alderman Adams asked that public comments be placed at the top of the agenda to
give citizens the opportunity to speak and exit the meeting within a reasonable
time if they wish to leave rather than stay for the entire meeting. Alderman
Brown and Fisher agreed that public comments should be placed higher on the
agenda.
Mayor Spencer stated citizens have told her that they prefer the public
comments at the end of the agenda and she does to, which afford citizens an
opportunity to speak on agenda items. Alderman Boguskie stated that he has
received the same comments.
Alderman Brown recognized Barbara Clewis work on the Planning Board and thanked
her for 32 years of service. The consensus of the Board was to send a
resolution of appreciation to Mrs. Clewis. Alderman Potter asked that Harley
Lemons and Susan Toth be included. Alderman Fisher moved to adopt resolutions
of appreciation and present to the above referenced individuals for their
service to the City by serving on the Planning Board, seconded by Alderman
Adams, vote unanimous. (Below are resolutions presented during the Planning
Board meeting on March 20, 2008 by Mayor Spencer)
Resolution Of Appreciation
WHEREAS, Barbara Clewis has rendered service to the City of Southport Planning
Board and deserves special recognition; and
WHEREAS, she served as Chairman of the Planning Board for many years; and
WHEREAS, Barbara has spent countless hours attending meetings and working on
the City's Unified Development Ordinance and other codes; and
WHEREAS, her zeal and dedication to the Planning Board, Board of Aldermen,
staff and citizens of Southport has earned her much respect; and
WHEREAS, she has served dutifully and faithfully as a member of the Southport
Planning Board for the past 32 years, and
WHEREAS, her exemplary conduct and sense of fairness has been demonstrated for
the good of the City and Planning Board; and
WHEREAS, presentation of this resolution represents an opportunity for the
Mayor and Board of Aldermen to thank Barbara and to show appreciation for the
unselfish manner in which she has led the Planning Board.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that I, Mayor Sandra P. Spencer and Board of
Aldermen for the City of Southport recognize Barbara Clewis for 32 years of
dedicated and distinguished service to the City.
/s/ Sandra P. Spencer
Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, CMC
Clerk
RESOLUTION OF APPRECIATION
WHEREAS, the Southport Board of Aldermen wish to commend Mr. Harley Lemons for
his work on the Southport Planning Board; and
WHEREAS, his dedication and devotion to the City has been valuable; and
WHEREAS, the Mayor and Aldermen wish to recognize Mr. Lemons for his
outstanding contributions; and
WHEREAS, he has spent many hours attending meetings and working on the City's
Unified Development Ordinance and other codes.
NOW, THERE BE IT RESOLVED, that I, Mayor Sandra P. Spencer and the Board of
Aldermen thank Mr. Lemons for three years of service on the Southport Planning
Board and present this Resolution of Appreciation for his contributions to the
progress of the City and Southport Community.
/s/ Mayor Sandra P. Spencer
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, CMC
Clerk
RESOLUTION OF APPRECIATION
WHEREAS, the Southport Board of Aldermen wish to commend Mrs. Susan Toth for
her work on the Southport Planning Board; and
WHEREAS, her dedication and zeal to the City has been valuable; and
WHEREAS, the Mayor and Aldermen wish to recognize Mrs. Toth for her outstanding
contributions; and
WHEREAS, she has spent countless hours attending meetings and working on the
City's Unified Development Ordinance and other codes.
NOW, THERE BE IT RESOLVED, that I, Mayor Sandra P. Spencer and the Board of
Aldermen thank Mrs. Toth for six years of service on the Southport Planning
Board and present this Resolution of Appreciation for her contributions to the
progress of the City and the Southport Community.
/s/ Sandra P. Spencer
Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, CMC
Clerk
Alderman Fisher communicated that the Chamber has been trying to secure a barge
for the past 3 years and if anyone know of a barge for sale, please let staff
know. The barge will be used for Fourth of July fire works.
XII.
Adjournment
No further business, the meeting was adjourned upon motion of Alderman Brown,
seconded Alderman Adams, vote carried.
_____________________________
/s/Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
_________________________
/s/Regina W. Alexander, CMC
Clerk
MARCH 25, 2008
SPECIAL MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN SPECIAL MEETING
MARCH 25, 2008    3:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, NC
 
PRESENT:         Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
            Aldermen Nelson E. Adams, Donnie Potter, James Brown,
            Ed Boguskie, Jwantana Frink and Paul D. Fisher
ABSENT:         None
STAFF PRESENT:      Chad Hicks, Interim City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander, City Clerk
            Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
            Ralph Cardwell, Interim Public Services Director
OTHERS:         Louis Roberti, Chairman, Southeast Brunswick Sanitary District
            Tom Spivey, SBSD District Manager
            Don Loosley, SBSD Commissioner
            David Pond, Engineer, W.K. Dickson, Representing the Southeast
Brunswick Sanitary District
            Carter Hubard, Engineer, W.K. Dickson, Representing the City of
Southport
I.
Call To Order – 3:00 p.m.
Mayor Sandra Spencer called the Special Meeting to order pursuant to notice
duly advertised and posted.
II.
Invocation
Invocation delivered by Alderman Brown.
III.
Purpose of Meeting
Mayor Spencer stated the purpose of the Special Meeting is to discuss the
City's plans for wastewater treatment because changes are underway with SBSD
and the Board needs to discuss its options. She asked Aldermen Potter and
Boguskie, members of the Wastewater Committee to report.
Alderman Potter informed the Board that they attended one meeting with the
Sanitary District and plans were discussed to handle the City's Wastewater
Treatment. The State has mandated that the City close its Wastewater Treatment
Plant by 2011. The City has a contract with SBSD to treat the City's wastewater
and they propose to expand the facility to include 900 mgpd. The expansion
project was discussed at a possible cost of $16 up to $18 million (dollars). He
and Alderman Boguskie asked staff to look for other alternatives, including the
County. Staff will present their options from the County at the April meeting.
He explained that the City is at a point with sewer problems regarding
allocation.
Mr. Carter Hubard of W. K. Dickson discussed O & M for a cost of $250,000 per
year. Staff evaluated the cost and estimated it to be at $500,000 for O & M,
which includes staff, building and equipment.
Alderman Potter stated that SBSD is looking for a commitment from the City but
the City has not received actual numbers. If the capital cost is estimated at
$16 million, the City has to pay it back and the plan calls for a 40-year
period. He is not convinced that the SBSD is the answer. He realizes the City
has a current contract with SBSD, however; Southport may be the only
municipality that has partnered with the SBSD, along with South Harbor and the
Long Beach Road communities. He is concerned that 30 years down the road, SBSD
may cease to exist. It is his belief that the City should look at other
options. He is concerned about the citizens and the affordability of sewer.
Mr. Hubard gave the Board a handout with variables showing payment terms with
the SBSD. He cited $11.5 million for capital and additional cost of $5-
6 million. The City looked at impact fees for new construction, etc. The
initial amount was $47.50 for an average residential customer. The new proposed
rate will be $70-$87.00 based on capital cost of SBSD with participation in
disposal facility.
Alderman Fisher asked if the estimated numbers were based on the 2004 Agreement
between the City and Sanitary District, which outlines the fee structure. He
stated that it was never the city's intent for the SBSD to use the city's
disposal area, and if they wish to use it, they would have to pay the city. He
stated in his last discussion with the SBSD it was his understanding if the
city sent 1000-gallons for treatment, and the SBSD sent 1000 gallons to the
city's disposal site, that it would be a wash. He does not understand the SBSD
not planning to use the city's spray fields when they cannot take the 200,000
gallons per the agreement, they did get up to 170,000 and SBSD could not handle
this and now the City's at 40,000 gpd. His belief is that they should adhere to
the 2004 contract agreement until they can prove to the city that they can do
better.
Alderman Boguskie asked the Engineer at what point does the City want to
increase capacity from 950,000 to 1.5 million. Mr. Hubard stated it depends on
the ETJ, population density, and projected flow and other factors.
Mr. Hicks stated in response to a question from Mayor Spencer, that the SBSD
over allocated for their treatment plant and before they can handle sewer
expansion, it has to be cleared through the Division of Water Quality.
Alderman Fisher stated Southport has not exceeded its allocation; the city was
locked in with the SBSD, which reduced the City's allocation. The concept plan
at the time the 2004 contract was entered into with everything completed, the
rate would have been between $35 and $39. For the benefit of the public,
Alderman Fisher explained the relationship between the City and SBSD. The Food
Lion Complex was on a package plant, it did not operate properly and the state
closed it down. The City was approached about treating their effluent if they
ran a six-inch line. The SBSD could not handle their effluent at this
particular time, and the city agreed to raise it to an eight-inch line in
anticipation of doing 200,000 p/day flow reversal. This started the City's
relationship with the Southeast Brunswick Sanitary District.
Alderman Brown stated at the time the City entered into contract with the SBSD,
the county was not an option and the city attempted to do the right thing at
the right time.
In response to questions from Board members, City Attorney Isenberg explained
if the SBSD does not adhere to the terms set forth in their contractual
obligations, the City could look at other options.
Mayor Spencer stated that the City has an existing contract, the SBSD cannot
honor it, and therefore they have asked the City to re-negotiate the terms of
the contract. Attorney Isenberg recommended staff get cost estimates from the
Engineer and compare to the County. Alderman Potter asked that staff put all
the data together and present to the Board in order that citizens may be aware
of what is going on.
Alderman Adams asked about a Special Meeting with the county in order to ask
questions and get answers in to be prepared for the regular meeting in April.
No further discussion, Mayor Spencer called a recess at 4:05 to reconvene at 4:
30 p.m. with representatives from the Sanitary District.
Reconvened Meeting – 4:30 p.m. (Alderman Adams excused)
Mayor Spencer called the meeting back to order. Those present representing the
South Brunswick Sanitary District were Louis Roberti, Chairman, Tom Spivey,
Manager, David Pond, Engineer, W.K. Dickson and Don Loosley, District
Commissioner.
Mr. Pond, Engineer, stated it is his understanding this meeting was held to
receive information and clarification in order that a decision can me made in
the interest of both entities and their customers.
Mayor referenced the following letter from the Sanitary District requesting a
decision from the Board by March 30. Mr. Pond explained that the letter was
asking for a decision based on a schedule developed by the engineers because of
environmental assessments and reports that must be submitted in a timely manner
in order to proceed with plans by a designated date. However, they realize the
City does not want to make a decision within the thirty (30) day period
requested. He asked that the Board evaluate the agreement including costs, and
asked about other issues of interest to the City. (See letter below)
SOUTHEAST BRUNSWICK SANITARY DISTRICT
"WORKING FOR THE PEOPLE OF SOUTHEAST BRUNSWICK SANITARY DISTRICT"
March 19, 2008
Mayor Sandra Spencer, City of Southport
201 E. Moore Street
Southport, NC 28461
Dear Mayor Spencer:
We need to come to closure, by March 31, 2008, on your commitment to the
District to continue its treatment of Southport's wastewater and the required
plant expansion. As we know treatment of the City of Southport wastewater will
enable the City to close its treatment plants so it can eliminate disposal of
its reclaimed water into the Intracoastal Waterway.
March 31, 2008 is a critical date since the engineers will be submitting, April
1, 2008, Environmental Assessments (EA) and Preliminary Engineering Reports
(PER) to the USDA in support of funding requests to them for the City and the
District. They will not allow us to go ahead without both of our commitment to
our agreement.
We will also need to amend the agreement to reflect today's environment. Since
2004, wastewater treatment costs and expansion costs have increased.
The District will be ready to accept the 200,000 gpd (currently 70,000 gpd) in
April/May. We ask that the City verify that they can send us that amount, or
what amount, without causing City plant operational problems.
Total City gallons treated by the District will be 1,000,000 gpd.
Any delays past March 31, 2008 can cause increases to our costs and therefore
increases in rates to the City.
To move this project forward, we suggest a meeting next week to discuss this
and resolve any open issues. We have asked David Pond, PE, executive vice
president of WK Dickson, to facilitate this meeting. Mr. Pond was instrumental
in the planning for this District and City project. Dates that are available
are next Tuesday the 25th and Wednesday the 26th in the morning.
Since this will be a policy and procedural meeting I suggest that we limit the
meeting attendees to you, Alderman Boguskie and Potter and Interim City Manager
Chad Hicks. The District will have me, Commissioner Loosley and District
Manager Tom Spivey attending. WK Dickson will have Mr. Pond and our Project
Managers.
If you need any further information or have any questions, please contact me.
Respectfully,
/s/ Louis Roberti, Chairman
Southeast Brunswick
Sanitary District
Cc: Ed. Boguskie, City Alderman
D. Potter, City Alderman
C. Hicks, Interim City Manager
D. Pond, WK Dickson
D. Loosley, SBSD Commissioner
T. Spivey, SBSD District Manager
Mayor Spencer stated that the Board is concerned about the monthly charge to
its customers.
Attorney Isenberg stated that the City has a contract with the SBSD that has
set forth terms of the agreement and the SBSD proposes to modify the contract.
The Board has concerns about the proposed cost to the City.
Mr. Roberti, Chairman of the SBSD stated that both parties agreed that the
contract needed to be modified and he has notes attesting to this. He explained
that this matter has been discussed over the course of two years and
representatives from the City were aware of the cost to expand the treatment
plant. Alderman Fisher stated that he was on the Wastewater Committee and he
was opposed to the requested modifications. Mr. Roberti explained that things
have changed in terms of costs. He asked Mayor Spencer to appoint a Committee
to work with them because the SBSD does not want to break the agreement; they
are ready to propose rates and move forward. It is their belief that the rates
represent equitable costs for the District and City.
Mr. Hicks, Interim Manager stated staff has not been given numbers on the
proposed rate changes by the SBSD. Attorney Isenberg stated any changes to the
contract with have to be approved by the Board of Aldermen.
Mr. Pond stated the contract allows for modifications. Attorney Isenberg
responded only if both parties agree that the contract should be modified.
Alderman Boguskie stated that it his belief that the SBSD is not capable of
handling the 200,000 gpd. Mr. Roberti replied that if the City has 200,000 gpd
of effluent, that they are ready to accept it.
Mayor Spencer stated the cost per customer as proposed would change to $88.00
per month. She referenced a letter that was sent to the Sanitary District on
November 7, 2007 from the City stating that some of the rates were not
acceptable, and it requested the Sanitary District accept the allocation as
originally proposed.
Mr. Roberti explained that the District had a spill in November and was not
able to accept 200,000 gpd of effluent and the City worked with them. Alderman
Potter stated he is not convinced that the City needs to approve the current
agreement because there are some gray areas that need to be addressed. Mr. Pond
asked that these items be addressed, realizing that the rates are an issue.
(Below is the letter given to the Mayor with proposed rates from SBSD)
SOUTHEAST BRUNSWICK SANITARY DISTRICT
"WORKING FOR THE PEOPLE OF SOUTHEAST BRUNSWICK SANITARY DISTRICT"
March 25, 2008
Mayor Sandra Spencer, City of Southport
201 E. Moore Street
Southport, NC 28461
Dear Mayor Spencer:
We are proposing the following rate structure for the treatment of the City of
Southport's wastewater at the District's plant. The rates are based upon
current cost and financial estimates for the plant expansion, reflecting impact
fees paid and the CWMTF grant as well as the City's share of the District's
expenses for wastewater treatment. As such, the rates are subject to change.
The plant will be expended to 2.0 m gpd and the City will have 1.0M gpd
wastewater treatment capacity.
All rates are based upon the premises that the City and the District complete
their plans by June 30, 2010.
Rates for the period ending June 30, 2010:
Base Sewer Rate will be $7.50, one time monthly charge.
Variable Change will be $4.23 per 1000 gallons
Impact Fees will be $20,500 per month
Interest fee on the City's share of the borrowed money will be $18,400 per
month.
Rates beginning July 1, 2010:
Base Sewer Rate will not be charged:
Variable Charge will be $5.53 per 1000 gallons
Capital Cost Fee will be $42,500 per month until June 30, 2030.
If you have any questions or comments, please contact me.
Respectfully,
/s/ Louis Roberti
Southeast Brunswick
Sanitary District
Cc: E. Boguskie, City Aldermen
D. Potter, City Aldermen
C. Hicks, Interim City manager
D. Pond, W. K. Dickson
D. Loosley, SBSD Commissioner
T. Spivey, SBSD District Manager
Mr. Roberti stated the Sanitary District is prepared to move forward with the
Agreement, but if the City wants to re-examine the contract, they are in hopes
of receiving an answer by March 31. Attorney Isenberg stated the City is not
ready to make a decision on the Agreement and need to examine other
alternatives.
Mr. Hicks asked for a period of 60-90 days. Mr. Roberti responded that they
will do all they can to assist the City.
Mr. Pond explained that he recognizes the perception since W. K. Dickson
represents the SBSD and the City. If either party wishes a second engineering
opinion, he would be glad to offer his assistance.
Mayor asked that the Utility Committee meet with representatives from the
Sanitary District. (Aldermen Boguskie, Potter, Hicks and Cardwell)
Alderman Fisher stated that the City raised its impact fees to cover the cost
of the system so customers would not have to pay more. The revenues from the
impact fees went into capital improvements, which was the original concept of
the City.
Mayor Spencer questioned how the cost doubled and requested a cost analysis.
Both parties established June 12 as the date for a decision to determine if the
City wish to continue with the project.
No further discussion, the meeting was adjourned at 5:35 p.m. upon motion of
Mayor Brown, seconded by Alderman Potter, vote carried.
_______________________________
/s/Sandra P. Spencer
Mayor
___________________________
/s/Regina W. Alexander, CMC
Clerk
APRIL 10, 2008
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
APRIL 10, 2008    7:30 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
            Aldermen Nelson Adams, Donnie Potter, James C. Brown,
            Richard "Ed" Boguskie, Jwantana Frink and Paul Fisher
ABSENT:         None
STAFF PRESENT:      Chad Hicks, Interim City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander, CMC- Clerk
            Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
            Ralph Cardwell, Interim Public Services Director
I.
Call to Order – 7:30 p.m.
Mayor Spencer called the meeting to order at 7:30 p.m.
II.
Invocation
Rev. Charles Drew, Pastor of Lighthouse Pentecostal Church delivered the
invocation.
III.
Approval of Minutes
Alderman Brown moved, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to approve March 13 regular
meeting minutes and special meeting minutes of March 6 and 25th. Vote carried.
IV.
Approval of Agenda
Mayor Spencer requested that an executive session be added to the agenda under
Item IX for the purpose of personnel. (City Manager) Alderman Potter moved to
amend the agenda to include the requested item, seconded by Alderman Adams,
vote carried.
V.
Committee Reports
There were no Committee reports.
VI.
Departmental Reports
Reports placed in Board's agenda packet.
VII.
Old Business
None to be presented.
VIII.
New Business
a.    CUP request for Southport Marina (Public Hearing)
b.    CUP request for Jeff Ward Bed and Breakfast (Public Hearing)
Alderman Potter moved to enter Public Hearing to receive public comments on the
above referenced Conditional Use Permit requests. Motion seconded by Alderman
Brown, vote carried.
Mayor Spencer read the requirements for granting a Conditional Use Permit.
(Clerk swore in citizens wishing to speak on the Conditional Use Permits)
Mr. Robin Rose, representative for Southport Marina stated Southport Marina
requested a conditional use permit to maximize the space available by
constructing a first class dry storage building which can house up to 76
additional boats. Mr. Rose explained that the design would be first class and
quality in keeping with other construction that has been done at the marina and
the citizens of Southport will be proud of it. He stated the facility would not
devalue adjoining property and would have a positive impact on the economy.
Mrs. Stephanie Van Noordt, Architect stated the building is designed with a
pitch, which is typical for the design of the proposed structure. In answer to
a question from Alderman Boguskie, she stated that 40 ft would be a hardship,
as any developer wishes to maximize the use of their property. The requested 50
ft structure can house an additional 76 boats. She explained that they met the
four points of the criteria as enumerated in the UDO.
Mr. Hicks, Planner and Interim Manager stated (March 20) the Planning Board
made a recommendation to approve a height extension for a proposed dry storage
building at the Southport Marina. In addition to the requirements of the UDO,
the Planning Board recommended that as a condition of approval, the Southport
Marina make a curb out between the main parking area and the boat ramps to aid
drivers using the facilities.
The Marina has requested a CUP that would allow them to construct a 50'
building. The UDO regulations state that if a height extension is requested, a
CUP must be issued. The Board must decide if the following conditions are
satisfied prior to granting a CUP.
1.   That the use will not materially endanger the public health, safety, or
general welfare if located where proposed and developed according to the plan
submitted.
2.    That the use will meet all required conditions and specifications.
3.   That the use will not adversely affect the use or any physical attribute
of abutting or adjoining property, or that the use is a public necessity.
4.   That the location and character of the use, if developed according to the
plans submitted and approved, will be in harmony with the area in which it is
to be located and in general conformity with the City of Southport Land Use
Plan.
Alderman Adams talked about granting CUP's circumventing the height
restrictions in the UDO and he does not want to see a hotel or motel chain come
in and ask for a CUP. Mr. Hicks explained that the four criteria must be met.
Alderman Brown interjected that each request should be considered on its own
merit. Alderman Potter stated that it is his belief that granting a CUP for
height change could open up "a can of worms." Attorney Isenberg stated that the
Board may wish to consider removing height exception as a requirement for a
CUP.
Mr. Woody Wilson of 502 W. Brunswick Street read the City's mission statement
and stated if the Board approved the CUP, this will establish a precedent and
he asked that the Board support the UDO 40 ft. height restriction because the
UDO is a tool that provides guidance for growth.
Mr. Phillip King of 520 Brunswick Street stated opposition to raising the
height limit to 50 ft. because he believes that this action will set a
precedent.
Mr. Gene Holyfield stated his support of the marina. He commented that the old
building was 48 ft. and what difference will two feet make. The marina is a
first class operation with first class people.
Mr. Paul Swenson of 207 E. Brown Street stated the marina is an asset and first
class, but may be sold one day and the new owners may not have the same
consideration for the citizens. He asked if the Conditional User Permit is
granted, that the Board require perpetual public access.
Mark Johnson told the Board that he is a proponent of boating and every
facility up and down the coast is full. If the Council limits dry storage, then
they limit public access to the water.
Mr. Russ Ferris of 406 West West asked that the Council think about public
input before they act on matters.
There were no further comments on the Conditional Use Permit for Southport
Marina.
b)     Mr. Jeff Ward, Bed & Breakfast CUP request.
Mr. Jeff Ward told the Board that he propose to make the Robert Ruark House at
119 North Lord Street into a Bed and Breakfast. He stated that there is a need
for this type of accommodations in Southport especially near the downtown area.
He stated that sufficient parking is available and there would be no signs or
lights to bother the neighbors.
Mr. Hicks noted that the Planning Board recommended approval of the B&B, which
will house four bedrooms and baths for guest occupancy. No new impervious
surface will be added to the site and pervious grass pavers will be used for
guest parking. He read the conditions that must be satisfied before granting a
Conditional Use Permit.
1.   That the use will not materially endanger the public health, safety, or
general welfare if located where proposed and developed according to the plan
submitted.
2.   That the use will meet all required conditions and specifications.
3.   That the use will not adversely affect the use or any physical attribute
of abutting or adjoining property, or that the use is a public necessity.
4.   That the location and character of the use, if developed according to the
plans submitted and approved, will be in harmony with the area in which it is
to be located and in general conformity with the City of Southport Land Use
Plan.
Mr. John Eide of 208 W. Nash Street stated his opposition to a Bed & Breakfast
in their neighborhood. He explained that he leases the house next door and they
were not notified of the request for a Conditional Use Permit. He stated
bringing commercial enterprise into a residential neighborhood would lower
their property values and the comfort of the neighbors will be affected.
Mr. Ward in answer to questions from Alderman Boguskie stated a manager would
be in residence and meals would be prepared on site.
Mr. Carl Taylor, resident of Arbor Creek, told the Board that he operates a Bed
& Breakfast in New Bern, NC. He stated that this business would enhance the
area and there is a need for this type of accommodation in the City.
No further comment, the Public Hearing was closed at 8:35 p.m. upon motion of
Alderman Brown, seconded by Alderman Potter. Vote carried.
Attorney Isenberg explained that the law states the applicant is entitled to a
Conditional Use Permit if they have complied with the criteria set forth in the
Unified Development Ordinance; however, the burden of proof is on the opponents
to prove these conditions do not exist. He stated if a motion to approve is
presented, the criteria must be identified; and if not, facts must be
established as to why the CUP is denied. He explained that general assertion is
not competent evidence. If the Board wishes to defer consideration, they may
not talk to the general public except in an open Board meeting. However, if any
of the member's spoke to the proponents prior to the Hearing, it should be
brought to the attention of the Board.
For the record, Mayor Spencer stated that she and Alderman Frink visited the
marina. Alderman Brown, Fisher and Adams also noted that they spoke with Mr.
Rose.
Alderman Fisher stated it is his belief that the Southport Marina will one day
be returned to the City and when it does, he wants it to be the best marina. He
stated if the City currently owned the marina that it would be leased. He
explained that the City has an active request in the Governor's office and the
legislature, requesting that the Marina be returned to the City of Southport.
Alderman Fisher motioned to approve the Conditional Use Permit for a dry
storage boat building with a curb cut between the main parking area and the
boat ramp to aid drivers using the facilities. Motion seconded by Alderman
Brown. (Alderman Brown stated the marina is first class and he wants to insure
that everyone has access to the water and it is accessible to the public.)
Discussion: Alderman Adams stated approving the CUP would set a precedent.
Attorney Isenberg stated the opponent must prove by setting forth facts that
the criteria have not been met. A CUP is allowable in the UDO for the marina
zoning district.
Alderman Potter stated that he and Mr. Boguskie did not visit the marina
because visiting the site could have prejudiced their opinion.
Alderman Fisher stated that he and Alderman Brown visited the marina to be
familiar and knowledgeable in order to make the right decision.
No further discussion the votes were: 2 ayes; Aldermen Fisher and Brown.
4 noes, Alderman Adams, Potter, Frink and Boguskie. Motion failed.
Alderman Adams motioned to deny the Conditional Use Permit for Southport Marina
dry storage boat building because it does not meet criteria #3 " that the use
will not adversely affect the use or any physical attribute of abutting or
adjoining property, or that the use is a public necessity." He stated that the
proposed 50 ft. building would obstruct the area view and decrease the value of
city property from the East. Alderman Potter seconded the motion, the votes
were 4 ayes: Alderman Adams, Potter, Boguskie and Frink. 2 noes, Alderman Brown
and Fisher. CUP denied.
VIII-B.
Attorney Isenberg presented the four criteria for the Bed and Breakfast CUP
requested by Jeff Ward.
1.   That the use will not materially endanger the public health, safety, or
general welfare if located where proposed and developed according to the plan
submitted.
2.   That the use will meet all required conditions and specifications.
3.   That the use will not adversely affect the use or any physical attribute
of abutting or adjoining property, or that the use is a public necessity.
4.   That the location and character of the use, if developed according to the
plans submitted and approved, will be in harmony with the area in which it is
to be located and in general conformity with the City of Southport Land Use
Plan.
Mr. Hicks stated that citizens were notified in accordance with the
requirements of the Unified Development Ordinance. Alderman Adams stated since
the Eide's lived at 208 West Nash Street and lease their property at 207 West
Nash, where the notice was mailed, he asked that the notices be resent and
motioned to table the CUP request for B&B until May, seconded by Alderman
Brown. The vote of approval was unanimous.
VIII-C.
Lowe White Park
Mr. Hicks told the Board that the City is ready to begin work on the Lowe-White
Park. The cost increased by $46,947 due to the increase in engineering of
wetlands and soil depth. The City has a state grant totaling $194,404 and the
City's share is $241,351. He stated that it is staff's belief that the project
can be completed by year end and recommended the Board approve the extra cost
and proceed with constructing the park per grant application. He stated if the
park is re-designed, the City may risk losing the grant. He stated that there
is 10% contingency figured in the estimate. The cost could possibly be reduced
when the project is submitted for bid. He suggested the monies be taken from
the River walk project since it is on hold.
Alderman Adams stated the project has been discussed for several years and the
City needs to move forward with construction and offered a motion to authorize
Chad Hicks, Interim Manager to execute the contract to include additional
monies from the River walk project. Motion seconded by Alderman Brown, the vote
of approval was unanimous.
VIII-D.
Turtlewood Subdivision – Dedication of Utilities
Mr. Hicks recommended the Board accept the utilities by South Star Development
(Turtlewood Subdivision) i.e. lift station, sewer, streets, waterlines and
other public infrastructure located in this development. Total value is
$607,667.00 and upon acceptance, a deed of easement will be delivered to the
City and warranty bond for $60,767. The utilities will be warranted for one (1)
year.
Alderman Boguskie asked about some of the lots in the subdivision requiring
their own sewer pumps and asked the City Manager to make sure the Building
Inspector was aware of this.
Alderman Fisher moved, seconded by Alderman Brown to accept the utilities in
Turtlewood Subdivision. Vote of approval was unanimous.
VIII-E.
Franklin Square Art Gallery
Mr. Hicks reported that the Associated Artists have requested the City pay to
build a platform landing (fire escape) at the base of the newly installed
elevator.  The building belongs to the City and is leased by the Associated
Artists. In order to meet building code, a fire escape must be built at the
elevator base. The platform will cost $4,150. Mrs. Stephanie VanNoordt, present
for another agenda item and Architect for this project, told the Board the
elevator cannot be used until compliant with code. She stated the platform is
required in the event of an emergency where people escaping from the second
floor can remain on the fire escape (platform) until rescued. It must be large
enough to comply with State Code. Alderman Brown stated the City owns the
building and if someone got hurt, the City would be liable. Alderman Adams
suggested this be considered during the new budget. Alderman Fisher moved to
approve $4,150 from fund balance, seconded by Alderman Brown. Vote was
unanimous.
VIII-F.
Budget Amendment
Alderman Fisher moved to approve the following budget amendment, seconded by
Alderman Brown, vote carried.
Budget Amendment # 12
Fiscal Year 2007-2008
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session April 10, 2008 that the following Budget Amendment
be adopted for revenues received from Police Grant Revenue to fund salaries,
travel and supplies and from money appropriated from Fund Balance to fund
Forestry Committee Projects.
General Fund
                               Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section I.
A.   Revenues Anticipated
         Grant Revenue7041.44
         Fund Balance 1600.00
               Total
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
         Police Department
            Salarie6046.06
            Supplie442.72
            Travel 552.66
         Buildings & Grounds
            Forestr1600.00
               T8641.44          4,941,080.30
 
ADOPTED this the 10th day of April, 2008
/s/ Mayor Sandra P. Spencer 
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk to the Board of Aldermen
VIII.-G.
Resolution of Support State Tourism
Alderman Potter moved seconded by Alderman Boguskie, to adopt the following
resolution of support for additional funding for State Tourism. Vote carried.
RESOLUTION SUPPORTING ADDITIONAL FUNDING OF THE NORTH CAROLINA DIVISION OF
TOURISM, FILM AND SPORTS DEVELOPMENT
WHEREAS, in 2007, tourism generated $16.5 billion in travel expenditures,
$1.344 billion in state and local taxes, $4 billion in payroll and employed
more than 190,000 North Carolinians, and
WHEREAS, although consistently ranking among the top 10 states in visitation,
North Carolina's travel marketing budget ranks only 21st among the 50 states
and 8th among peer southern competitors, and
WHEREAS, South Carolina has increased its budget to approximately $46 million
for 2008-09 and will be investing in domestic marketing and advertising at a
more than 3:1 advantage over North Carolina, and
WHEREAS, North and South Carolina draw visitors from the same states and
markets and South Carolina stands to increase its market share at the expense
of North Carolina if the state does not respond to this threat immediately, and
WHEREAS, independent research conducted by Longwoods International reported
North Carolina receives $185 in new visitor spending and more than $15 in state
and local tax revenues for every dollar invested in paid advertising, an
impressive ROI of more than 15:1 on the state's investment, and
WHEREAS, based on Longwoods findings and the 2007 TIA Economic Impact of
Tourism Study on North Carolina's Economy, an additional $5 million for the
Division's statewide marketing efforts would generate $925 million in new
visitor spending and more that $75 million in new state and local tax revenues,
and
WHEREAS, tourism provides public and private sector benefits in all 100
counties. In 2006, Brunswick County ranked 9th among the 100 counties in
visitor spending with $367.87 million in expenditures, $75.41 million in
payroll, nearly 5000 people employed, and $23.97 million in local tax receipts.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Brunswick County Tourism Development
Authority does hereby urge Governor Easley and the North Carolina General
Assembly to increase the Division of Tourism's statewide marketing program by
$5 million.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Brunswick County Tourism Development Authority
does hereby encourage the tourism industry of Brunswick County to contact
Governor Easley and our legislators in support of said additional funding.
Adopted this 10th day of April, 2008
               ATTEST:
/s/ Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor      /s/ Regina Alexander, City Clerk
VIII-H.
Tax Releases
Alderman Fisher moved to approve the following tax releases, seconded by
Alderman Boguskie. Vote carried.
Bill/Parcel # Name/Acct #   Date     Amt. Released Value     Reason for
                                                   Released  Release
5903          John Hamilton 2007 tax 13.25         8,700     Boat sold in
                                                             2006
5994          John          2007 tax 16.51         10,846    Boat stored at
              Slaughter                                      Oak Island
5995          John          2007 tax 115.99        76,190    Boat stored at
              Slaughter                                      Holden Beach
                                                             Annexed
5619          Smithville    2005 tax 4,650.01      1,982,420 property
              Crossing                                       billed for
                                                             wrong year
                                                             property
              Smithville                                     should be
5372          Crossing      2007 tax 929.99        1,982,420 billed for 10
                                                             mos. instead
                                                             of 12 mos.
Total                                $5,725.75
 
IX-A.
Other Business - Power Services Inc.
The Board heard from Mr. Willoughby of Power Services, Inc. who performed an
evaluation of the request from Piedmont Natural Gas for a franchise to install
a natural gas system in the City and to determine the benefit or impact to the
electrical system. He gave the Board a written report and stated the
impossibility of giving an exact estimate on the potential impact that natural
gas would have on the electrical systembecause they do not know who would buy
into it. He stated of the 1,937 customers, the city could lose $21 a month from
residential customers (hot water heaters) and for an entire house $32. He
stated the City might have an advantage by requiring the company to put in
underground cables. He stated it is in the Board's best interest to work out
the best franchise for the City. City Attorney Isenberg stated the former City
Manager negotiated an Agreement to control what Piedmont Natural Gas does. He
stated if it was the Board's desire he would proceed with the Agreement. It was
the consensus that the Attorney continue negotiations with Piedmont Natural Gas
on a Franchise Agreement to include underground cables.
IX.
Public Comments
Mr. Cecil Frank of 503 N. Atlantic Avenue requested the Board hold a workshop
on sewer upgrades in order that the citizens may be informed on the sewer
issues.
Mr. Harley Lemons of 6558 Navigator Way asked the Board to formulate a
resolution after Public Hearing, to approve same and forward to the appropriate
parties stating that Southport does not support the proposed international
state port. He stated that the Board of Aldermen previously adopted a
resolution supporting the proposed port without citizen input. Mayor referenced
a resolution included in the Board's agenda packet where the Town of Caswell
Beach adopted a resolution opposing the Port. She stated that this matter is
not on the Board's agenda for discussion.
Alderman Adams stated that he has worked at the Port for 42 years and it has
been good for this area contributing to the economy i.e. pilots (river) and
longshoremen; and he will not support any resolutions against the proposed
International Port.
X.
Board Comments
Alderman Fisher told the Board about the Annual ElectriCities meeting to be
held in August and motioned that the City contribute two (2) $50.00 gift
certificates, seconded by Alderman Adams, vote carried. ($50 Lowe's and $50
Wal-mart)
Alderman Potter asked that height exceptions for conditional use permits be
revisited by the Planning Board.
Mayor announced that the Relay for Life will be held the first weekend in May
and encouraged participation.
Town Hall Day – The Clerk announced that Town Hall Day would be held on
Wednesday, June 4, 2008. (Raleigh)
XI.
Executive Session – 10:05 p.m.
Alderman Potter moved to enter closed session in accordance with G.S. 143-
318.11 (a) 6 to consider the qualifications, competence, performance,
character, fitness, and conditions of initial employment of applicants for City
Manager. Motion seconded by Alderman Brown, vote unanimous.
(Executive session minutes will remain sealed until public inspection no longer
frustrate the purpose of the closed session)
Regular Session Reconvened – 10:35 p.m.
In regular session, Mayor Spencer announced for the benefit of the press and
public that an offer will be made to an applicant for City Manager.
Alderman Adams requested that a Police Officer be present until the close of
each City Council meeting. Mayor stated she would contact Chief Dove.
XII.
Adjournment
Motion by Alderman Potter to adjourn seconded by Alderman Brown, vote carried.
______________________________
/S/ Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
______________________________
/S/ Regina W. Alexander, CMC-City Clerk
EXECUTIVE SESSION
 
EXECUTIVE SESSION MINUTES APRIL 10, 2008
 
Mayor Spencer asked the Board for input in the selection of a City Manager and
noted that Chad Hicks would be leaving. The names for consideration and persons
interviewed were Bruce Oakley and Alan Thornton.
The Board discussed the experience and education of each applicant, and the
consensus was Alan Thornton had more experience in the areas that the city is
seeking in a City Manager.
The Board discussed salary and directed the Mayor to make an offer starting at
$70,000 not to exceed $85,000.
Alderman Fisher motioned to authorize Mayor Spencer to make an offer to Alan
Thornton for the position of City Manager and salary not to exceed $85,000.
Motion seconded by Alderman Potter. Votes were five (5) ayes, Aldermen Potter,
Fisher, Brown, Frink and Boguskie. One (1) abstention: Alderman Adams.
Motion by Alderman Potter, seconded by Alderman Brown, to re-enter regular
session. Vote carried.
_____________________________
Sandra P. Spencer
Mayor
_____________________________
Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
MAY 8, 2008
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
MAY 8, 2008       7:30 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, N. C.
 
PRESENT:         Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
            Aldermen Nelson Adams, Donnie Potter,
            Richard "Ed" Boguskie, Jwantana Frink and Paul Fisher
ABSENT:         Alderman James Brown
STAFF PRESENT:      Regina W. Alexander, CMC-City Clerk/Interim City Manager
            Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
            Patty Miller, Finance Officer
            Ralph Cardwell, Public Services Director
            Jerry Dove, Chief of Police
I.
Call to Order – 7:30 p.m.
Mayor Spencer called the meeting to order at 7:30 p.m.
II.
Invocation
Alderman Adams delivered the invocation.
III.
Minutes
Alderman Fisher moved to approve the minutes of April 10, 2008 regular meeting,
seconded by Alderman Frink, vote carried.
IV.
Approval of Agenda
Alderman Fisher moved to approve the agenda including an amendment to add a
Resolution under VII-C, seconded by Alderman Frink, vote carried.
V.
Committee Reports
Alderman Potter presented the following report from the Fort Johnston
Committee:
∙   Preparation of bathrooms to be opened, met with the Building Inspector to
insure that ADA guidelines are met and Randy Jones will consult with a
contractor to do the modifications.
∙   Future uses of Fort Johnston discussed. Consensus was that if the Historic
Society would agree to utilize the lower floor to house and display historic
items, which would be the best use for the property. Mr. Maisel advised that
video and pictures would be used to reflect life during significant periods in
Southport's history. The second floor would remain city offices.
∙   Utilization of Fort Johnston as a Historic Site could lead to rebuilding
onsite structures reminiscent of the period and expand the facility as an
attraction for the public.
∙   The Historic Society voted to pursue a proposal to utilize Fort Johnston
subject to a written document between the City of Southport and the Historical
Society.
∙   Alderman Potter stated that locks would be changed on the building because
keys were unaccounted for.
Alderman Fisher told the Board that he received numerous calls pertaining to
the rental of Fort Johnston. He stated $20,000 was placed in the budget as
anticipated revenues for the rental of Fort Johnston and it was the Board's
policy to rent the building to insure that all citizens have an opportunity to
utilize the facility.
Alderman Potter stated if the first floor is designated for use by the
Historical Society, the building can not be rented. Alderman Fisher stated the
East Wing of the building was designated for the Historical Society's use and
he is opposed to any changes to the original policy. Alderman Potter stated the
building needs to be utilized everyday and mold is gradually reappearing. It is
the Committee's belief that the building can be better utilized. Alderman
Boguskie stated the restroom facility needs to be made ADA compliant and Mr.
Jones will talk with a contractor to make these modifications. The restrooms
should be operable by Memorial Day. Mayor Spencer stated uses for Fort Johnston
should be placed on the Board's agenda for further discussion.
VI.
Departmental Reports
None
VII.
Recycling Program – Southport Elementary Students
A)    Janzen Jones, Hayley Lantrip, Savanna Michaux and Brianna Miller of
Southport Elementary School gave a presentation on their recycling project in
which they have collected over 2,000 bottles. Mayor Spencer commended the
students and encouraged recycling.
B)    Mayor Spencer presented a Resolution of Appreciation to Boy Scout Troop
#238 for their contributions to the Forestry Committee for watering newly
planted live oak trees and providing other services in the City. The scouts are
under the leadership of Paul Gawron, Bryan Wester and Hugh Nobles.
C)    Mayor Spencer presented a Resolution of Support to first Sgt. Larry
Dennis in support of a Community Girls & Boys Club to be located in Southport
at the Brunswick Community College Annex on Lord Street. First Sgt. Dennis
stated their focus is on juvenile delinquency, and increasing academic
standards.
Alderman Fisher motioned to approve both resolutions, seconded by Alderman
Frink, vote carried.
VIII.
Old Business
W. K. Dickson – Carter Hubard, Engineer (Wastewater)
Mr. Carter Hubard, Engineer, gave cost projections to continue the contract
with Southeast Brunswick Sanitary District or to partner with Brunswick County
to provide wastewater services. Mr. Hubard explained that the rates are
approximated based on project cost, funds availability, existing collection
system operation and maintenance costs, etc. Rates shown are based on average
residential customer use of 3,000 gallons per month.
Table 1 – Potential rate for Residential Customer
 
Year SBSD   Brunswick County Option 1 Brunswick County Option 2
2010 $84.00 $62.00                    $42.50
2011 $84.00 $62.00                    $42.50
2012 $84.00 $62.00                    $75.00
2018 $84.00 $75.00                    $75.00
 
Mr. Hubard told the Board sewer service from the county would be less expensive
than rates from the South Brunswick Sanitary District proposed in 2004.
Alderman Adams stated an answer must be provided by June 12, and it is his
belief that the Board should take legal action if the SBSD does not meet its
2004 contractual obligations.
Alderman Potter stated if the SBSD is not willing to honor the 2004 contract;
the City should not renegotiate with them and proceed to negotiate with the
county. The city needs to move in a direction that will benefit the city in
years to come.
Alderman Fisher stated that the City had an amicable working relationship with
the SBSD and that they should meet their obligations by adhering to the 2004
contract. It is his belief that the SBSD has breached their contract. Alderman
Boguskie noted that there is a clause in the 2004 contract which states a
Committee must be formed to discuss rates. Alderman Fisher stated the Committee
was formed and rejected the proposed rate changes.
Attorney Isenberg asked the Board if it was their wish to continue with the
2004 contract or to consider negotiating with the county.
Alderman Potter moved to authorize the City Attorney to discuss with the
Southeast Brunswick Sanitary District's Attorney that the City will only
continue in partnership with them if they are willing to honor the terms of the
2004 contract. Motion seconded by Alderman Fisher, vote of approval was
unanimous.
Conditional Use Permit – Jeff Ward's Bed & Breakfast
City Attorney Isenberg stated that sufficient legal notice had been provided
and Public Hearing held at the April 10th meeting on the Conditional Use
Permit.
  Alderman Fisher motioned, seconded by Alderman Frink to approve the
Conditional Use Permit for Jeff Ward's Bed and Breakfast to be located at 119
North Lord Street, the vote of approval was unanimous.
IX.
New Business
A.    Resolution closing out Southport Wastewater System- (Patty Miller,
Finance Director)
Alderman Fisher motioned, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to approve the
following resolution closing out Southport's Wastewater System Enhancement
Phase I Capital Project Fund. Vote carried.
RESOLUTION CLOSING OUT SOUTHPORT WASTEWATER SYSTEM ENHANCEMENT – PHASE (I)
CAPITAL PROJECT FUND
WHEREAS, the Wastewater System Enhancement, Phase I Project has been completed;
and
WHEREAS, it is appropriate to close out the Fund accounting for this project in
accordance with the State Statutes and generally accepted accounting
principles;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the City of Southport Board of Aldermen, that
the Wastewater System Enhancement Phase I Capital Project Fund is hereby
completed and that the Fund accounting for revenues and expenditures concerning
this project is closed out in accord with the following provisions:
1.   The fund will be closed upon receipt of any revenue outstanding as of
today’s date.
2.   Any excess revenue over expenditures will be automatically transferred to
the Water/Sewer Fund.
3.   Capital assets acquired or constructed as a result of this Capital Project
will be transferred to the Water/Sewer Fund for recording of fixed assets in
accordance with appropriate statutes and standards.
4.   The Finance Director is hereby authorized to make any Fund or accounting
adjustments necessary to effect the closing of this Fund.
Adopted this the 8th day of May, 2008.
/s/Mayor Sandra P Spencer
ATTESTED: 
/s/Regina Alexander, City Clerk
B.    Proposal from Brunswick County for a tax collection partnership-(Patty
Miller Finance Director)
Mrs. Miller, Finance Director and Mary Russ, Tax Collector, recommended the
City not enter into agreement with the County for one (1) year until the City
Manager can review the proposal. Alderman Fisher moved, seconded by Alderman
Frink to delay entering into agreement with the County of Brunswick to collect
the City's ad valorem taxes at a cost of 0.75% for one year. Vote carried.
C.    Tax Releases
Alderman Fisher moved, seconded by Alderman Frink to approve tax releases, vote
carried.
Parcel #   Name         Date      Amt Release   Value   Reason
221MD01010   Bonnie Clevenger   2006 tax   25.81      9,560   Part of property
                              in city and part out
5901      Joe D. Groce      2007 tax   20.66      13,470   Boat sold April 2006
D.    Hire Consulting Planners
Mr. Dale Holland, Holland Consulting Planners Inc. was present to discuss
services of his office. The Planning Board recommended the City hire Dale
Holland to provide planning services until a staff Planner is hired. Mr.
Holland stated his company could perform professional services on the same
basis performed in the past by maintaining a schedule of hours within City Hall
each week. He stated the cost is contingent upon the amount of time they spend
in the City. He suggested establishing a schedule with 2 1/2 days per week,
which would afford citizens the opportunity to speak with them. Alderman Fisher
asked if he could work on a project basis from the Planning Board, Board of
Aldermen or the Interim City Manager. Mr. Holland stated if they did not have
regular office hours they would work on an as call or needed basis.
Alderman Fisher motioned to hire Holland Consulting Planners on a project basis
by request of the Planning Board, Interim City Manager or the Board of Aldermen
at $75.00 per hour. Alderman Potter seconded the motion and the vote of
approval was unanimous.
The Board stated the Interim Manager would be the point of contact for work
performed by Holland Consulting Planners.
E.    Interim Manager
Alderman Fisher motioned, seconded by Alderman Adams to designate the City
Clerk as Interim Manager until the new City Manager takes office on June 2. The
vote was unanimous.
F.    Board of Adjustment Appointments/Reappointments
Alderman Fisher motioned to reappoint the following persons to the Board of
Adjustments, seconded by Alderman Boguskie. Vote unanimous.
Chris Maynor    ETJ, 2 yr expiring June 2010
Jeff Ward      City, 2 yr expiring June 2010
Kenneth Karn      City Alternate, 1 yr expiring June 2009
Dr. Joe P. Hatem   ETJ Alternate, 1 yr expiring June 2009
   (Members from the ETJ will be submitted to the County Commissioners for
approval)
G.    Piedmont Natural Gas Franchise Ordinance
City Attorney Isenberg presented a Franchise Ordinance for Piedmont Natural Gas
to provide natural gas service in the City. Attorney Isenberg told the Board
the ordinance requires two readings. The proposed franchise ordinance gives the
City control over how the gas company is received.
Mr. Ennis Sargento, Operations Manager was present to answer questions and
stated natural gas is a very clean source of energy.
Alderman Fisher motioned to approve the first reading of the Franchise
Ordinance, seconded by Alderman Potter; the vote of approval was unanimous. The
second reading with be held at the June 12 regular meeting.
H.   City Manager's Contract
Attorney Isenberg stated the contract had been negotiated with some changes and
instead of paying 100% family medical insurance coverage, the City will pay
50%. Alderman Adams stated he was not questioning qualifications, but believes
the contract is "too rich". Alderman Fisher noted that the city pays 30% family
medical coverage for employees including the former City Manager and opposed to
50%.
Alderman Potter moved to approve the contract to hire Alan Thornton as City
Manager, seconded by Alderman Boguskie. The votes were: 3 ayes-Aldermen Potter,
Boguskie and Frink. 2 noes: Aldermen Adams and Fisher.
I.   Proclamation recognizing May 4-10 as Municipal Clerks Week
Alderman Fisher moved, seconded by Alderman Potter to adopt a resolution
recognizing May 4-10 as Municipal Clerks' Week. Vote carried.
PROCLAMATION
ANNUAL MUNICIPAL CLERKS WEEK
MAY 4 - MAY 10, 2008
WHEREAS, the Office of the Municipal Clerk, a time honored and vital part of
local government exists throughout the world; and
WHEREAS, the Office of the Municipal Clerk is the oldest among public servants;
and
WHEREAS, the Office of the Municipal Clerk provides the professional link
between the citizens, the local governing bodies and agencies of government at
other levels; and
WHEREAS, the Municipal Clerk serves as the information center on functions of
local government and community; and
WHEREAS, Municipal Clerks continually strive to improve the administration of
the affairs of the Office of the Municipal Clerk through participation in
education programs, seminars, workshops and the annual meetings of their state,
province, county and international professional organizations; and
WHEREAS, it is most appropriate that we recognize the accomplishments of the
Office of the Municipal Clerk;
NOW, THEREFORE, I Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor of the City of Southport, does
recognize the week of May 4 through May 10, 2008 as “Municipal Clerks Week”,
and further extend appreciation to our Municipal Clerk Regina W. Alexander, and
to all Municipal Clerks for the vital services they perform and their exemplary
dedication to the communities they represent.
ADOPTED, the 8th day of May 2008.
/s/ Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, CMC
Clerk
J.   Proclamation by Governor Easley proclaiming May 2008 as "Seat Belt
Awareness Month in N. C.
Alderman Fisher motioned to adopt the above referenced resolution, seconded by
Alderman Frink, vote carried.
X.
Other Business
A.   The Board scheduled Friday, June 6, 2008, 9:00 a.m. for a budget workshop.
XI.
Public Comments
Mr. Kenneth Karn of 307 Park Avenue Extension asked the Board to speak directly
into the microphones, when visual presentations are made during Public Hearings
that same be made available for public review, and at the end of Public
Hearings when a vote is required, the Aldermen state their positions as to why
they voted they way they did..
XII.
Board Comments
Alderman Fisher requested a resolution be prepared for the June 12 Board
meeting asking Dosher Hospital to make every effort possible to establish a
dialysis center in Southport.
Alderman Fisher thanked City staff for an excellent job in cleaning Northwood
Cemetery. He advised the Board that before citizens and organizations repair,
clean or move items in Old Smithville Burying Ground, that they are required to
submit a plan to the Superintendent of Cemeteries and the Board for approval.
Alderman Fisher asked staff to provide an ordinance for the June 12 meeting to
address the cat issue. Attorney Isenberg stated he would meet with Code
Enforcement Officer Drew to review various ordinances in order to draft one for
the City.
Alderman Fisher reported by memo on the 2008 Progress Energy/NCEMPA conference
attended by him and Ralph Cardwell.
Alderman Boguskie stated that the Fort Johnston property is costing the city
money and a decision needs to be made on the use.
XIII.
Executive Session – 10:28 p.m.
Alderman Boguskie moved to enter closed session to receive legal advice from
the City Attorney. Motion seconded by Alderman Potter, vote carried.
(Executive session minutes will remain sealed until public inspection no longer
frustrates the purpose of the closed session)
XIV.
Adjournment – 10:55 p.m.
______________________________
Sandy Spencer, Mayor
__________________________
Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
EXECUTIVE SESSION
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN EXECUTIVE SESSION
                  MAY 8, 2008
 
Executive Session - 10:28 P.M.
Alderman Boguskie moved to enter closed session to receive legal advice from
the City Attorney, seconded by Alderman Potter, vote carried.
City Manager's Contract – Attorney Isenberg advised the Board that a majority
of members present must vote on contracts that involve the expenditure of funds
which includes the City Manager's Contract.
Mr. Dale Holland, of Holland Consulting Planners was present to discuss the
legal aspects of annexation with the Board.
Mr. Holland showed the Board various drawings of the proposed annexation and
asked for direction on proceeding and the area they wish to annex because the
next step in the process would be to adopt a resolution of intent.
The Board discussed various options and Mr. Holland explained that the
annexation must meet the state definition of urban area and the Board needs to
determine the value of annexed property to the city, and the city must have the
ability to provide services.
The Board discussed annexing to the canal once Progress Energy agrees to grant
the city a parcel of land to cross the canal.
Option 1, go past Lowe's Home Improvement up 211 and Mr. Holland stated the
cost and benefit analysis needs to be determined.
Option 2, Mr. Holland believed that with the parcel from Progress Energy, this
would be the logical choice for the city.
Option 3 appeared to be the consensus of the Board after being polled.
Alderman Adams –    Option 3
Alderman Potter –    Option 1
Alderman Boguskie – Option 1
Alderman Frink –    Option 3
Alderman Fisher –   Option 3 contingent upon the Board considering assessments.
The Board directed Mr. Holland to proceed with options 1 and 3, which will be
presented back to the Board for review.
Marina – Attorney Isenberg told the Board that the applicant for a Conditional
Use Permit hired an Attorney to represent them in filing an appeal to contest
the Board's decision. He explained that the City should have provided a written
decision stating the Board's findings, facts for denial of the CUP and since
this action was not done, he recommended the Board allow the applicant to re-
file their application.
Following brief discussion, Attorney Isenberg stated that he would ask Dale
Holland to begin the process of changing the wording in the Unified Development
Ordinance requesting the Planning Board to recommend referring the
responsibility for granting Conditional Use Permits to the Board of
Adjustments.
Alderman Fisher stated it is the Board's responsibility to make decisions as
dictated by the UDO and he disagrees that the Board of Adjustments should rule
on Conditional Use Permits.
Regular Session Reconvened – 10:45 p.m.
Alderman Potter moved to re-enter regular session, seconded by Alderman
Boguskie, vote carried.
Adjournment– 10:55 P.M.
No further business, Alderman Adams moved to adjourn, seconded by Alderman
Potter, vote carried.
_________________________________
Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
________________________
Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
MAY 14, 2008
SPECIAL MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, NC
MAY 14, 2008      2:00 P.M.
 
PRESENT:           Mayor Sandra P. Spencer
            Aldermen Brown, Potter, Frink and Boguskie
ABSENT:         Aldermen Adams and Fisher
STAFF:         Regina W. Alexander, Interim Manager/Clerk
            Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
            Dale Holland
Mayor Spencer called the Special Meeting to order at 2:04 p.m. She stated the
purpose of the meeting is to review annexation options and the employment
contract for the City Manager.
Alderman Brown delivered the prayer.
City Manager's Contract Attorney Isenberg told the Board that the vote on the
Manager's contract at the last meeting was 3-2 and the statute requires that
contracts expending funds be authorized by a majority of the entire Board and
not only members present. He requested the Board re-vote on the contract.
Attorney Isenberg stated that no additional changes were made to the contract.
He stated the provision remained on suspension; wording changed to standards
set by the ICMA instead of incompetence, deleted required physical and amended
the contract authorizing the Manager to attend at least one national ICMA
meeting annually. (Copy of contract on file)
Alderman Boguskie motioned to ratify the Manager's employment contract,
seconded by Alderman Brown; the vote of approval was unanimous.
Executive Session 2:20 p.m.
Attorney Isenberg recommended that the Board go into closed session to receive
legal advice concerning several annexation issues facing the board related to
satisfying annexation criteria including requirements to extend services to the
areas the Board is considering annexing. Alderman Potter moved, seconded by
Alderman Boguskie to enter closed session pursuant to G.S. 143-318.11 to
receive legal advice from the City Attorney regarding these annexation issues.
Vote unanimous. (Minutes of the closed session will remained sealed until
public inspection no longer frustrates the purpose of the closed meeting)
Regular Session Reconvened 3:27 p.m.
Alderman Brown motioned to adjourn, seconded by Alderman Potter, vote carried.
______________________________
Sandra P. Spencer
Mayor
________________________
Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
EXECUTIVE SESSION
 
EXECUTIVE SESSION MAY 14, 2008
 
Attorney Isenberg referenced a statement made by Alderman Fisher on assessments
and explained to the Board that it cannot adopt a resolution of intent and
change its policy and begin assessing property owners. The Board policy must be
in effect at least 180 days if the Board wishes to consider levying assessments
for sewer. The city currently does not have such a policy in effect. The
planner, Mr. Holland, recommended obtaining a copy of the sanitary district
policy. Attorney Isenberg advised the Board that if the city decides to assess
an area, they must revise its current policy. If the Board wishes to establish
a policy and wants to wait 180 days before a resolution of intent is passed,
the Board can do it, but he believes 180 days is too long to wait.
Next Attorney Isenberg asked Mr. Holland to present possible annexation
alternatives for the Board to review and consider. Although other options were
briefly discussed, there were three main alternatives presented by the city
planner: (1) Commercial along Hwy 211, (2) Area along 211 to the Progress
Energy canal, and (3) Including Southgate and/or Carolina Lace in the
annexation areas. While these options were presented, Mr. Isenberg discussed
the legal issues related to these options and whether or not each alternative
safely satisfied the legal criteria and requirements for involuntary annexation
such as the contiguity, subdivision and use tests.
Attorney Isenberg asked the board for guidance as to which alternative it
favored and he told the board that the city is not bound until they pass a
resolution of intent, which is a declaration by the Board and can be adopted at
any meeting. He stated once a resolution of intent is adopted, you cannot add
to it, but you can subtract. The board asked Isenberg legal questions regarding
these alternatives and he advised the Board concerning the various issues,
including crossing the Progress Energy Canal.
Alderman Potter stated he favored taking in as much commercial as possible.
Attorney Isenberg asked the Board to give himself and Mr. Holland directives as
to which way the city want to proceed. Motion by Alderman Potter to direct the
City Attorney and Dale Holland to prepare and present a proposed resolution of
intent in June to the Board on options 1 and 4 for its consideration. Alderman
Boguskie seconded, the votes were 3 ayes Aldermen Potter, Boguskie and Brown. 1
no, Alderman Frink.
Motion by Alderman Potter to re-enter regular session, seconded by Alderman
Brown, vote carried.
MAY 29, 2008
SPECIAL MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, N.C.
MAY 29, 2008      5:00 P.M.
 
PRESENT:           Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
            Aldermen Donnie Potter, Ed Boguskie, Jwantana Frink,
            James Brown and Paul Fisher
ABSENT:         Alderman Nelson Adams
STAFF:         Regina Alexander, Interim Manager/Clerk
            Patty Miller, Finance Director
            Ralph Cardwell, Interim Director Public Services
            Dale Holland, Planner
I.
Call to Order
Mayor Spencer called the meeting to order at 5:00 p.m.
II.
Invocation by Alderman Brown
III.
Presentation of FY 08-09 Budget
Ms. Patty Miller, Finance Director presented the City's proposed operating
budget for FY 2008-09. The Board scheduled June 6, 9:00 am as a special meeting
for the budget workshop.
IV.
Wastewater Options
Mr. Carter Hubard, Engineer with W. K. Dickson reiterated the projected costs
for residential customers under the Southeast Brunswick Sanitary District's
(SBSD) proposal which is $84 under Option 1, County rate $62. Option 2 if the
city and county constructed a plant, the rate would be $42.50 per month but
increase to $75 after completion of the plant by 2012. Mr. Hubard told the
Board that the City's current permit to discharge into the Intracoastal
Waterway (ICWW) would expire 2011.
Mayor Spencer stated the Southeast Brunswick Sanitary District needs an answer
by June 12. Clean Water Management Trust needs to know the Board's decision by
mid July. She stated that the City Attorney sent a letter to the District
asking them to honor the 2004 contractual agreement, but no answer has been
received as of this meeting.
In answer to question by Alderman Fisher, Mr. Hubard stated if the 2004 rate is
acceptable to the SBSD; the projected cost for residential customers is $74.
Alderman Boguskie stated SBSD cost totals $11,683,000, which is the City's
share of the facilities. Mr. Hubard stated that $682,000 is actual construction
costs, $55,000 O&M per year for the City, and $2.7 is the capital costs
associated with the disposal site.
In response to a question by Alderman Potter, Mr. Hubard stated when the
Professional Engineering Report was submitted May 2007; the agreement was based
on Southport and the SBSD using the disposal facility. He stated the costs were
favorable at this time; however, with the current analysis, Option #1 is better
with the County. He stated that the county's proposal would need the final
details worked out, i.e. ownership of force mains, transfer of ownership,
ability of county to receive Southport's flow and the best use of the property
near the Military Ocean Terminal at Sunny Point.
Mr. Jerry Pierce, Public Utilities Director for Brunswick County, stated the
county would support Southport's choice. If the City decided to join with the
County, it would be a partner and their books would be audited and available
for inspection. He stated that they meet quarterly with all partners. Mr.
Pierce stated the county would own the facilities. He stated if the City
decided to collaborate with the county and send their sewer, they would plan
for expansion of the Supply Plant or build a new plant near Sunny Point.
Mr. Ralph Cardwell, Interim Public Services Director, told the Board that the
city is linked with the SBDS and they will have to treat the City sewer. The
city can't stop sending flow to the SBSD. Clean Water Management Trust wants
sewer out of the ICWW. Option 1 is the only timeline in which the city can
achieve this goal. He told the Board that a private individual is willing to
pay a pumping station to transport wastewater to St. James, which will be
needed. He stated this would be a savings to the City of approximately $1
million. He recommended the Board consider Option 1 which would require minimum
staff.
Alderman Potter stated it is his belief that Option 1 is best for the City.
Alderman Adams asked that the Board schedule a workshop to review the options
discussed. The Board agreed to have a special meeting on Tuesday, June 10 at 6:
00 p.m.
Alderman Fisher asked staff and Mr. Hubard to submit the information in
summation prior to the meeting for review.
Adjournment – 6:40 p.m.
No further business, the meeting adjourned upon motion of Alderman Boguskie,
seconded by Alderman Frink, vote carried.
____________________________
/S/ Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
_________________________
/S/ Regina W. Alexander, CMC
Clerk
JUNE 6, 2008
SPECIAL MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
JUNE 6, 2008      9:00 A.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, N. C.
 
PRESENT:         Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
            Aldermen Brown, Potter, Frink, Boguskie and Fisher
ABSENT:         Alderman Nelson Adams
STAFF PRESENT:       Alan Thornton, City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander, City Clerk
            Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
OTHERS:         Patty Miller, Finance Officer
            Randy Jones, Director of Tourism
            Heather Hemphill, Director of Parks & Recreation
            Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
            Ralph Cardwell, Interim Public Services Director
            Jerry Dove, Chief of Police
            Greg Cumbee, Fire Chief
I.
Call to Order – 9:00 a.m.
Mayor Spencer called the meeting to order at 9:05 a.m. and stated the purpose
of the meeting is to discuss annexation and the City's proposed operating
budget for FY 08-09.
II.
Invocation
Alderman Brown delivered the prayer.
Mayor Spencer and the Board welcomed Alan Thornton, newly hired City Manager.
III.
Executive Session – 9:10 a.m.
Alderman Brown motioned to enter closed session to receive legal advice from
City Attorney Isenberg on annexation, seconded by Alderman Boguskie, vote
carried.
(Executive session minutes will remained sealed until public inspection no
longer frustrates the purpose of the closed meeting)
IV.
Regular Session Reconvened – 9:40 P.M.
In regular session, Alderman Fisher motioned to direct staff to prepare
resolutions of intent for annexation, seconded by Alderman Frink, vote carried.
Alderman Boguskie motioned to authorize the City Attorney and staff to
investigate Oak Island's annexation proposal to determine if there is a basis
for challenge, and report to the Board. Motion seconded by Alderman Brown, vote
carried.
IV.
Discussion of City's Proposed Operating Budget FY 08-09
Ms. Patty Miller, Finance Officer presented the proposed fiscal year 08/09
operating budget. City's overall budget is $14,926,496, general fund balance
$4,753,792. Proposed ad valorem rate is $0.17 per $100 valuation of
$893,327,500 with a collection rate of 98%, which represents $0.02 cents tax
rate increase. $238,402 of fund balance appropriated as the City's portion of
Lowe White Park project. The other portion of fund balance appropriated is for
the cost in completing the Jaycee Building, replacing the porch railings on the
Community Building, construction cost for addition to Building Inspections and
computer equipment purchases.
Alderman Brown read the following statement:
To: Board and Department Heads
"I think the City should be runned as a business not on a profit and loss basis
but should be operated efficiently. Our primary goal is not to just keep the
tax rate down; of course, no one wants to pay more taxes than necessary. We
must consider the tax rate but more importantly, we must consider the health,
safety and welfare of our citizens. Providing more than adequate services in
all areas of our city government, maintaining all city property, equipment and
public facilities in the best possible condition, insuring that Southport is in
a clean and safe condition to welcome all visitors. We must govern to insure
that we leave Southport to our successors in number one condition. Therefore,
considering the tax rate while it is important, I have had a number of citizens
tell me that they would prefer to pay a little more taxes to have the streets
in better condition and to keep the facilities looking better. I know that when
I went on the Board in '85, everything was runned down. All the equipment,
everything that we had, we had to replace and we were working off yellow
tablets. So, those times are past, thank goodness, but while I think the tax
rate is important, I think that we need to look at the other areas as well."
Mayor agreed and stated, "That the duty is to the citizens to provide the best
services that we can and this is one of the reasons the Board is looking at
annexation. If Southport stays in its present configuration, taxes will
continue to increase but there comes a time that they will have to stop because
people simply cannot afford to pay more and the choice comes down to reducing
services, and she does not want to do that."
Mayor expressed her concern at using fund balance to balance the budget but
expressed appreciation to staff.
Mr. Thornton, City Manager stated he reviewed the proposed budget and financial
summaries. He asked for directives from the Board in accomplishing tasks within
the budget and will work towards that goal. He cited some areas in the current
budget of uncollected revenues of $1.4 million and $650,000 appropriation out
of fund balance in this budget year that has not been appropriated. CAMA Grant
for the Fort Johnston Boardwalk, money to meet city's obligation for PARTFF
Grant for Lowe-White Park, which can be implemented over a three (3) year
period, Police Department requests five new officers to accommodate annexation,
which can be implemented over a two year period from the date the annexation
becomes effective to provide services. He explained that there are areas in the
budget that needs to be examined including questions about expenditures and
revenues. He stated that he would compile additional budget information and
present to the Board, explaining that a budget is a planning document and can
be revised.
Alderman Fisher stated he supports the 5% COLA for city employees. He
recommended Mark Southerland, a 20 year employee be given a 10% increase
because he has saved the City money by doing work especially in the Jaycee
Building and Sr. Citizens Building, assisting other departments, and believes
that he is deserving of this increase as recommended by the Director of Parks
and Recreation.
Other matters discussed were:
·   Alderman Fisher noted Garrison House revenues. Finance Director stated
Garrison House rental revenue placed in the wrong account. This has been
rectified. In response to a question from Alderman Boguskie, Mr. Jones replied
that the Garrison House meeting room could seat 20 people, maximum 50 i.e. main
dining and reception areas prior to acquisition by the Southport Historical
Society. The building does not fit the need of most groups.
·   Waiting for written policy from the Board concerning the Garrison House.
Alderman Brown recommended following the policy that is in place until the
Board changes it. Alderman Potter stated some of the uncertainty came because
of the Committee asking questions about the facility.
·   Alderman Fisher suggested boat rental slip fees be increased. Last change
was July 1998. Board agreed that fees could offset repairs to the dock. Ms.
Miller reported the City has a seven (7) year waiting list for boat slips. City
has issues with people sub-letting. Alderman Potter recommended if fees are
increased; place the money in budget for repairs. Consensus of the Board that
boat rental slips be increased. Presently, responsibility for the docks has not
been placed under a department, but Ralph Cardwell has done some repairs to
avoid safety hazards. City Manager stated an assessment should be done on the
needs to justify raising fees and specify where monies will be spent. Consensus
of the Board to assess the needs of the city dock, raise fees accordingly and
place monies in a line item to repair the dock. Board discussed having the area
dredged because of the shallowness.
·   The City Manager stated the Board may need to look at the city's entire fee
schedule and suggested an assessment needs study. This study will list all city
properties to insure that the city is making the best use of all its
facilities.
·   Police Department – Chief Dove reviewed his budget and the need to increase
pay for starting officers and to purchase reliable equipment, i.e. vehicles.
·   Building Inspection – Wayne Strickland asked that the building addition be
funded for the Building Inspections and Planning Department.
·   Tourism: Randy Jones noted that the Garrison House is currently under the
Department of Tourism and should be transferred to Parks & Recreation because
of the lands to parks grant. Alderman Brown noted that the building being under
the Parks and Recreation Department was a part of the grant application.
·   Alderman Fisher asked that Fort Johnson be metered per the agreement with
the Southport Historical Society. Ralph Cardwell recommended the cost be based
on square footage.
·   Parks & Recreation – Ms. Hemphill reported on Stevens Park, which is still
in receivership, currently do not have ball fields, Lowe-White Park, and
resurfacing the basketball court. Ms. Hemphill stated the benches at waterfront
park need to be replaced due to rust and decay.
·   Buildings and Grounds – Alderman Fisher asked that efforts be renewed to
complete sidewalk project on Moore and Leonard Streets. City Manager stated the
state currently has no funds in this program.
·   Cemeteries – exterior roads in bad shape
·   Alderman Fisher asked that a letter be sent to the Pilots Association and
Coast Guard to renew efforts to slow down when they come along the river and
inlet due to erosion problems.
Mr. Thornton asked the Board to schedule the Public Hearing on the budget and
give him sufficient time to review the proposed budget and make some
adjustments to present to the Board.
Alderman Brown moved to schedule Public Hearing on Thursday, June 30, 2008, 6:
00 p.m. Motion seconded by Alderman Fisher, vote carried.
The Board asked the City Manager to work up a proposal with a $0.03 budget
increase.
Mayor Spencer told the Board that the City Clerk was appointed Interim Manager
and was not compensated. She requested the Board compensate the Clerk and asked
for recommendations. Discussion ensued, and the Clerk asked that the
compensation be added to her current salary because her retirement benefits are
based on her salary for the last four years of work. Nothing was agreed upon
and the Clerk requested she meet with the City Manager to come up with a
recommendation and present back to the Board.
Adjournment – 1:40 p.m.
Motion by Alderman Boguskie to adjourn, seconded by Alderman Potter, votes
carried.
___________________________________
/s/Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
______________________________
/s/Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
Executive Session
 
Executive Session Minutes June 6, 2008
 
Attorney Isenberg told the Board that the Town of Oak Island adopted two
resolutions of intent to annex the Oakwood Glen Subdivision off Airport Road,
and 600+ acres on Long Beach Road that turns onto NC 211 and stops at Lowe's
Home Improvement, including one lot past Lowe's on the opposite side of the
road. City staff reviewed the map and resolutions of intent and they appeared
to be in order. He related that the annexation report must be approved thirty
(30) days before the public information meeting. Attorney Isenberg told the
Board that an engineering consulting firm worked on the project for
approximately three (3) years and according to Chad Hicks, City Planner, their
figures were conservative.
Attorney Isenberg told the Board that he talked with David Lawrence, Professor
at the School of Government, and he stated the first town that passes a
resolution of intent acquires that area unless a mistake is made in their
calculations. However, this will not be known until Dale Holland reviews Oak
Island's annexation report. The City still does not have an answer from
Progress Energy on the land request, but Mayor Spencer was told that
representatives from Raleigh would be coming down to meet with the local Plant
Manager and the Manager would contact City officials. Professor Lawrence agrees
with the City that if Progress Energy agrees to the subdivision test, the City
can legally jump over the canal; however, if they do not, the City will have a
legal argument by going down the road. He believes it may be worth trying to do
this, but there are no assurances. There is a case that would permit this
because the canal is manmade and it is not a natural waterway. The annexation
is still preferable if the city can use the Progress Energy property to go
across the canal.
Alderman Brown asked if there was anything that would preclude Lowe's and
others petitioning Southport for voluntary annexation. Attorney Isenberg stated
only if the petition was received prior to approval of the resolution of
intent.
Alderman Fisher asked if there was a law that precluded the City from adopting
a resolution of intent for the same area. Attorney Isenberg stated the city
could adopt a resolution of intent that includes some of the area, but unless
the city can show a mistake or legal error in Oak Island's report, they have
priority. Alderman Fisher explained that the City had to get permission from
the Town of St. James to annex the property known as Rivermist, and from the
City of Boiling Spring Lakes to annex property belonging to the City near Sunny
Point. Attorney Isenberg stated this was satellite, whereas a town cannot annex
anything that is closer to another town without a resolution of annexation
agreement between the respective towns. He explained that Oak Island's
annexation is contiguous.
Attorney Isenberg presented a map showing the annexation Southport has proposed
which includes some of the area Oak Island has proposed; including food lion,
cinema theatre and West Trace on the opposite side. This is a new combination
of option 1 and 2, which the City's resolution of intent is proposing. Attorney
Isenberg stated if Oak Island's annexation is upheld, the City might not be
able to go up to their boundary because it will not be able to meet the tests.
However, in the meantime, the City could work out an annexation agreement with
Oak Island, which could preclude them from going any further. The Attorney
showed various scenarios on the annexation map the City could pursue. Alderman
Fisher suggested adopting a resolution of intent for the same area and if a
mistake is found in their annexation plan, Southport will be on the books to
proceed.
City Manager Thornton apprised the Board of conversation with Dale Holland and
explained that Mr. Holland's preliminary review found everything appeared to be
in order. He wished to review the city limits boundary because during
preliminary review; the city limit did not appear to match GIS and he wished to
compare the map. Mr. Holland asked the Board for directives in proceeding with
the process.
Attorney Isenberg suggested the Board consider a resolution that directs him
and staff to perform the necessary paper work to challenge Oak Island's
annexation.
Alderman Fisher stated the City could potentially lose money because of the
Fire District extending to the area Oak Island proposes to annex. Attorney
Isenberg told the Board Brunswick County has a local act and if one town takes
property from another's fire district, they are required to pay one-half of the
fire fees for three years. Mr. Holland has prepared Resolutions of Intent, one
proceeding down both sides of the road (Hwy 211) to get across Progress
Energy's canal, and the other includes the Progress Energy Canal contingent
upon their approval.
There being no further discussion, Alderman Boguskie motioned to re-enter
regular session, seconded by Alderman Potter, vote carried.
______________________________
Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
______________________________
Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
JUNE 10, 2008
SPECIAL MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
JUNE 10, 2008     6:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, NC
 
PRESENT:         Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
            Aldermen Nelson Adams, Donnie Potter, James Brown,
            Richard "Ed" Boguskie and Paul Fisher
ABSENT:         Alderman Jwantana Frink
            Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
STAFF PRESENT:      Alan Thornton, City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander, City Clerk
            Ralph Cardwell, Interim Director of Public Services
            Patty Miller, Finance Director
I.
Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Spencer called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
II.
Invocation
Alderman Brown delivered the invocation.
III.
Wastewater Issues
Mayor Spencer gave council members a letter from Mr. Lou Roberti, Chairman of
the Southeast Brunswick Sanitary District. She stated that Attorney Isenberg,
Mr. Thornton, City Manager and herself met with Mr. Roberti, Chairman of the
Southeast Brunswick Sanitary District, Attorney Prevatte and Mr. Ken Anderson.
She stated that the District had made some concessions and the information was
given to Carter Hubard, Engineer.
City Manager Thornton reported that he met with the City's Utility Committee
and they considered the revised rates in preparing the recommendation with the
understanding, what the Southeast Brunswick Sanitary would do if the City of
Southport chose to further its relationship with them.
Mr. Carter Hubard in his presentation gave staff and the Board a summarization
enumerating Wastewater Transmission Facilities, Reclaimed Water Transmission
Facilities and Reclaimed Water Site including a detailed analysis of Brunswick
County's proposal for wastewater treatment in comparison to service by the
Southeast Brunswick Sanitary District. The summarization included updates on
the project cost, sample rates, net present worth analysis, schedule including
advantages and disadvantages and recommendation to the Board. (Information
Incorporated as Attachment #1)
Mr. Hubard stated the three options were compared and the proposals evaluated.
His letter is a summary of the information presented on May 7, 2008
Mayor Spencer asked if the potential loss of the grant was considered in the
options. Mr. Hubard stated whatever option the city selects, a request should
be made to the Clean Water Management Trust to utilize the funds because the
goal is still to get the discharge out of the waterway. The timing is
different, the project may change, but there will be a request to use the funds
for city facilities to get the discharge out of the ICWW. The grant is
considered in the Southeast Brunswick Sanitary District's proposal; however,
the grant funds are diminished in Options 1 & 2.
In answer to questions from Alderman Boguskie, Mr. Hubard stated $3 million in
CWMT grant has been set aside for transmission, pump station and disposal
facilities, and some of these funds have been used for professional services,
but there is still money under contract. Alderman Boguskie questioned if the
money is set aside, why go through the extension process. Mr. Hubard explained
one of the stipulations in the contract states if the schedule is revised,
there must be a request for an extension. Alderman Boguskie stated the schedule
with the Southeast Brunswick Sanitary District was not met and questioned the
difference. Mr. Hubard stated when he contacted CWMT they requested a reason
for the schedule change be submitted, but they did not indicate funds would be
reduced based on the schedule. They will review the plans before the funding
amount is changed; potentially those monies may carry over to the options, but
he is not certain. Alderman Boguskie stated if the city elects to collaborate
with the county, they would get out of the waterway quicker which would be a
good reason.
Alderman Fisher asked about a timeline, and Mr. Hubard stated the removal of
discharge SBSD 2011, Brunswick County-Option 1, 2010 and Brunswick County
Option- 2, 2012. He asked about the grant under Phase II and what has been
engineered that pertains to SBSD including Options 1 and 2. Mr. Hubard stated
with SBSD the grant and site will be used according to plan. Funds expended
today are for high rate infiltration basins on the site. Option 1 with
indication from the county, the wastewater from the City would go to the Supply
plant. When capacity is reached and expansion is needed, which is projected to
be 10 years, they will evaluate a new facility, possibly the east plant near
Sunny Point or the west plant. The plan under Option 2 is to build a plant near
Sunny Point and Southport's disposal facility could be used to dispose of the
water from the treatment plant. The option 1 and the period presented in the
proposal is not committed to where the expansion would occur and how the site
would be used. He suggested if the City pursue this option, to make this part
of the agreement that the eastern facility be the location for the expansion
and use of the disposal site.
Mr. Hubard reviewed with the Board other details contained in the summary. In
concluding, it was recommended that the City pursue Brunswick County Option 1.
(See Option 1, Attachment # 1) See attachment # 2 with revised numbers
Alderman Adams asked that Attorney Isenberg explain the legalities to the Board
at the next regular scheduled meeting.
Garrison House
Mr. Thornton presented an estimate on the Garrison House bathroom renovations.
Alderman Fisher asked if the renovation included a changing station, which was
in the original plan. It was stated that the restrooms have to meet ADA
standards, i.e. ramps, window, locks and security lights. The Board consensus
was to award the contract to the lowest bidder R. L. Jones & Sons for
$2,018.24. (Other bidder was Wayne Smith & Son, Inc., $4,600.00)
No further business, motion by Alderman Boguskie to adjourn, seconded by
Alderman Adams, vote carried.
_________________________________
/s/Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
______________________________
/s/Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
JUNE 12, 2008
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
JUNE 12, 2008     7:30 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
            Aldermen Nelson E. Adams, Donnie Potter, James Brown,
            Richard "Ed" Boguskie, Jwantana Frink and Paul Fisher
ABSENT:         None
STAFF PRESENT:      Alan Thornton, City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander, CMC, City Clerk
            Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
            Patty Miller, Finance Director
            Ralph Cardwell, Interim Director of Public Services
            Jerry Dove, Chief of Police
            Randy Jones, Director of Tourism
            Heather Hemphill, Director of Parks and Recreation
            Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
            Charles Drew, Code Enforcement
            Greg, Cumbee, Fire Chief
            Mary Russ, Tax Collector
I.
Call to Order – 7:30 p.m.
Mayor Spencer called the meeting to order.
II.
Invocation
Chaplain Anthony Buntyn of the Police Department delivered the invocation.
III.
Approval of Minutes
Alderman Fisher motioned to approve the May 8 regular meeting minutes, seconded
by Alderman Potter, vote carried.
IV.
Approval of Agenda
Mayor requested the following items be added to the agenda:
·   Mr. Roger Goblatt of the FCC Commission, to discuss the conversion from
analog to digital TV between Items VI and VII on the agenda,
·   Discussion of the sewer proposal
·   Annexation
Alderman Potter moved to amend the agenda to include the requested items,
motion seconded by Alderman Brown, vote unanimous.
V.
Committee Reports
VI.
Departmental Reports
Reports included in Board's agenda packet.
VII.
Presentation by Roger Globatt of the Federal Communications Commission
Mr. Globlatt of the FCC informed the Board and public that the Wilmington area
is a pilot program for the country in digital transition. The deadline for
conversion in Wilmington and surrounding counties is September 2008. The FCC is
attempting to get the word out through ads, media and public appearances to let
people know that if they have old technology, i.e. analog and antennas, they
will need to purchase converter boxes. Cable, satellite and digital TV's will
not present a problem. They are asking that people prepare for the conversion.
Public Hearing – Alderman Brown moved to enter Public Hearing to receive
comments on text revisions to the Unified Development Ordinance Amendments to
Articles 6, 11, and 12, Amendments to Section 14-8 and Amendment to Section 11-
1, Note 3. Motion seconded by Alderman Frink, vote carried
Attorney Isenberg stated the amendments are to set up procedure where the Board
of Adjustment rather than the Board of Aldermen will be responsible for the
issuance of conditional use permits. Most changes delete word "Board of
Aldermen" and replace with Board of Adjustment; the Planning Board recommended
adding church steeples to Note 3 of Article 11, Table of Area, Yard, Density
and Height Requirements.
Alderman Fisher asked when would a person apply for a conditional use permit
and noted with the proposed changes, there is no way an individual can apply
for a CUP. Attorney Isenberg stated only through a variance. Alderman Fisher
stated that he could envision in years to come the possibility that buildings
may exceed the 40 ft. requirement.
Alderman Frink asked about the possibility of hotels locating in this area and
the effect the height restriction may impose. Attorney Isenberg explained that
the Board could modify the height requirements.
Mr. Strickland, Building Inspector, stated the Planning Board deleted the
height requirement, however; they will hold a series of workshops to review all
conditional use designations in the UDO Table of Permitted Uses. Realizing that
a hotel could be located in Southport, the Planning Board will revisit the
height requirements to insure if there is a conditional use for height, the
conditions and location are specified.
Mayor asked that a letter from Steven Coggins be placed on file.
Woody Wilson of 502 Brunswick Street supports the Board of Adjustment ruling on
conditional use permits, which he stated would free the Aldermen to carry out
their normal duties and responsibilities.
No further discussion, Alderman Adams moved to re-enter regular session,
seconded by Alderman Brown, vote carried.
In regular session, Alderman Boguskie motioned to adopt the proposed amendments
and that the Board finds that the proposed amendments are consistent with the
City's Comprehensive Land Use Plan and that the amendments are reasonable and
in the public's interest by clarifying the City's Conditional Use Permits,
hearing procedures, and making the City's procedures conform to applicable law.
Motion seconded by Alderman Potter, the votes was five ayes: Alderman Boguskie,
Potter, Brown, Frink and Adams. One no, Alderman Fisher.
VIII.
Old Business
a)   Second reading of an ordinance granting a franchise to Piedmont Natural
Gas Company, Inc.
Alderman Fisher motioned to approve the ordinance granting a franchise to
Piedmont Natural Gas Company, Inc., seconded by Alderman Boguskie, the vote of
approval was unanimous.
AN ORDINANCE GRANTING A FRANCHISE TO PIEDMONT NATURAL GAS COMPANY, INC.
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN OF THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT as follows:
1.   DEFINITIONS.
As used in this Ordinance, the following terms, words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this section:
COMPANY shall mean Piedmont Natural Gas Company, Inc.; a corporation organized
under the laws of the State of North Carolina and authorized to do business in
the State of North Carolina and any successor in interest to Piedmont Natural
Gas Company, Inc. under this franchise Ordinance.
CITY or SOUTHPORT shall mean:
The City of Southport, a municipal corporation located in Brunswick County,
North Carolina, or
The area now or hereafter within the territorial City limits of the City of
Southport to the extent it may be lawfully included as presently or hereafter
fixed by law or ordinance, or
The Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport or any officer or agent duly
authorized and acting on behalf of the City as a municipal corporation, as
indicated by the context by which the term is used;
Board of Aldermen shall mean the governing body of the City of Southport;
Gas when used as an unqualified term shall mean either natural or artificial
gas, by whatever process or processes derived or manufactured, or both such
gases either separately or a mixture of them admixed as allowed by the proper
regulatory authorities.
2.   FRANCHISE GRANTED
Subject to the laws of the State of North Carolina and of the City of
Southport, and subject to the provisions of this ordinance, CITY hereby grants
the permission, right, privilege and franchise to COMPANY to supply, sell,
furnish and distribute gas to the inhabitants and consumers of SOUTHPORT, and
to construct, operate and maintain a gas utilities system, and for that purpose
to lay, install, construct, operate, repair and maintain the necessary gas
lines, pipes, conduits, devices and other facilities in the public streets and
alleys in the City of Southport for the furnishing, distribution and sale of
gas to the inhabitants and consumers in the City of Southport. It is mutually
understood and agreed that this franchise is non-exclusive.
3.    TERRITORY. 
The area to be covered by this franchise shall include the present corporate
limits of the City of Southport and any future areas which may be annexed to
the existing corporate limits.
4.    DURATION.
The duration of this franchise shall be for a period of 20 years from and after
the enactment of this ordinance upon and after its second reading at a regular
meeting of the Board of Aldermen.
5.    OBLIGATION TO FURNISH GAS.
COMPANY hereby covenants and agrees, at its own cost and expense, to extend its
piped gas distribution system and to deliver and distribute gas to customers as
required and governed by COMPANYS North Carolina Service Regulations, Sections
7, 8 & 13, as approved by the NCUC, and any other applicable governmental laws
and regulations, and subject to COMPANYS determination of economic feasibility
in accordance with the criteria set forth in those regulations.
6.    COMMENCEMENT OF SERVICE.
COMPANY shall, upon enactment of this ordinance, proceed with due diligence and
good faith to secure such rights of way, easements, permits and licenses which
are necessary for extending service hereunder. Service hereunder shall be
available to customers in the City of Southport within two years from the
granting of this franchise; if not, SOUTHPORT may declare this franchise null
and void.
7.    COMPLIANCE.
COMPANY shall comply with all applicable rules and regulations of the NCUC and
any other governmental agency having jurisdiction over the work and products of
COMPANY as well as all applicable rules, ordinances and regulations of
SOUTHPORT which are not in conflict with the rules of the NCUC or the U. S.
Department of Transportation. COMPANY shall comply with all provisions of this
franchise where the same can be done without violating the rules of the NCUC or
any other governmental agency having jurisdiction over the work and products of
COMPANY.
8.    QUALITY & PRESSURE; METERS
The quality and pressure of the gas to be furnished and supplied within the
City of Southport shall conform to or exceed the quality standards and conform
to the pressure standards set by appropriate regulatory authorities. Meters
shall be installed, inspected and maintained by COMPANY in accordance with the
standards promulgated by the NCUC or other applicable regulatory authorities.
9.    TIME OF WORK.
Except in the case of an emergency or other similar situation requiring
immediate repairs in order to protect the health and safety of the public,
construction, installation, maintenance or repair work to be undertaken on the
COMPANYS natural gas distribution system in the public streets or alleys of the
City of Southport may only be performed during the times allowed therefor in
the permit issued by SOUTHPORT to COMPANY pursuant to Paragraph 11 below,
excepting, however, that no such work may be performed on any legal holidays
observed by the CITY.
10.   USE OF STREETS.
The construction, operation and maintenance of COMPANYs gas system shall be
done in a manner which minimizes to the greatest extent practicable (within
reasonable economic costs) interference with the public use of the streets,
alleys, public ways and other public places of SOUTHPORT and damage to the area
disturbed. No gas pipes or mains shall be laid in the same trenches in which
water, sewer or electric lines are laid except as allowed by permit and by
applicable state and federal regulatory standards. COMPANY shall construct,
install , locate and maintain its mains and pipes so as to be compatible with
the construction, location and maintenance of existing water, sewer, cable,
underground electric service or electrical connections, laterals or mains.
COMPANY and SOUTHPORT agree to evaluate and consider the feasibility of joint
trenching in circumstances where COMPANY and SOUTHPORT mutually determine that
the application of such technology is appropriate. In circumstances in which
SOUTHPORTs and COMPANYs facilities are installed in the same trench, or
otherwise in close proximity to each other, each party shall install its
facilities in a manner that will not interfere with the construction, location
and maintenance of the facilities of the other party.
11.   EXCAVATION.
Except in the event of emergencies in which the public health and safety
require immediate excavation to make repairs, COMPANY shall not excavate in the
public streets, alleys or other public property of the City of Southport until
it shall have obtained from SOUTHPORT a permit approving and setting forth the
location and times allowed for the proposed excavation, and any other
appropriate conditions. A reasonable fee may be charged for this permit. All
excavation, backfilling and paving shall be subject to inspection by SOUTHPORT
and such work shall be made in compliance with all rules, laws and regulations
of SOUTHPORT. In the event of emergency repairs, however, COMPANY shall obtain
a permit as soon as practicable under the circumstances. CITY agrees to act
upon a permit application within a reasonable time.
In all cases where a public street, alley or other public way is excavated,
altered, disturbed or encumbered by COMPANY, it shall take all precautions
necessary or proper for the protection of the public and shall maintain
adequate warning signs, barricades, signals and other devices necessary to give
adequate notice or warning to the public of the existence of all conditions and
hazards present. COMPANY shall undertake every reasonable option available to
prevent creating a hardship to adjoining properties.
12.    RESTORATION.
COMPANY shall, promptly after installing or repairing mains, pipes or other
facilities, refill the trenches in which the pipes are located according to the
standards and requirements set by SOUTHPORT and shall keep the excavated area
in a safe condition. In addition, COMPANY shall promptly restore, repair and
replace pavement, sidewalk, curb, gutter, streets, alleys, water and sewer
infrastructure, underground electrical service and components, and stormwater
collection and conveyance facilities or other property of SOUTHPORT destroyed
or damaged by such excavation or other work to their approximate former
condition with like materials. In the event that COMPANY cuts or disturbs a
section of sidewalk paving, COMPANY shall restore the whole section by a new
section rather than only replacing the cut-out area. All repair, replacement
and restoration work shall be subject to inspection and approval by SOUTHPORT
and shall be completed within 21 days from the date of damage unless such work
requires immediate attention (such as damaged water, sewer or electrical lines)
in which case it shall be repaired, replaced or restored within 8 hours of the
time of damage. In the event that the restoration work is not acceptable to
SOUTHPORT or is not completed within said time period, CITY may do all or part
of such work at the sole cost or expense of COMPANY. COMPANY agrees to
reimburse CITY for said costs and expenses within 30 days of demand therefore
by CITY.
13.    INSPECTION.
SOUTHPORT shall have the right, but not the duty, to inspect all excavation,
construction, backfilling and paving work performed by COMPANY pursuant to this
franchise and to perform such other inspections as it deems necessary to insure
compliance with the franchise.
14.    REGRADING.
In the event that any of COMPANYS facilities are within the public streets ,
alleys or other public property of the City of SOUTHPORT and work to such
public streets, alleys or public property necessitates the movement, removal or
relocation of the COMPANYS facilities affected by such work, the COMPANY shall
promptly move, remove or relocate its facilities upon notification by SOUTHPORT
and COMPANY shall bear the cost of moving, removing or relocating such
facilities; provided, however, that SOUTHPORT will reimburse the COMPANY for
such costs if the COMPANYS right of occupancy in its existing location is other
than by virtue of this franchise and SOUTHPORT has not succeeded to the
interests of the party granting COMPANY its right of occupancy.
15.    REPAVING.
If SOUTHPORT decides to pave, repave or otherwise improve a street or public
way , it shall give 90 days prior notice to COMPANY of its intention with
regard to the paving or repaving. COMPANY shall use its best efforts to perform
such work as it deems necessary for the planned extension of new lines or
repair of existing lines within the street or public way prior to the time that
SOUTHPORT begins paving, repaving or otherwise improving said street or public
way. If COMPANY fails to perform such work prior to the paving, repaving or
other improvements by SOUTHPORT, but later performs such work within one year
from the date that SOUTHPORT completes the paving, repaving or other
improvements to that portion of the street or public way, COMPANY shall at its
own expense repave the section of the street or public way disturbed by
COMPANYS work to the reasonable satisfaction of SOUTHPORT or the N. C.
Department of Transportation. If COMPANYs work occurs after this period,
COMPANY shall comply with Section 12 hereof.
16.    TREES.
COMPANY shall preserve and protect all trees and shrubs located within the
public ways from damage by COMPANY and its agents and shall comply with all
local ordinances concerning tree preservation and protection. In the event that
the treatment, removal or replacement of such trees or shrubs is necessitated
by the actions of COMPANY or its agents, COMPANY shall pay to SOUTHPORT the
reasonable cost of treating, removing and replacing any trees or shrubs which
have been so damaged or destroyed. These costs and expenses shall be determined
in good faith by SOUTHPORT, and COMPANY shall reimburse SOUTHPORT within 30
days from demand for reimbursement.
17.    INDEMNIFICATION.
COMPANY shall at all times indemnify and save harmless SOUTHPORT, its officers,
employees and agents, for each and all such nuisances, damage, injury, loss,
cost or expense (including reasonable attorneys fees )caused, occasioned or
contributed to by any act or failure to act by the COMPANY, its officers,
agents and employees, in the construction, installation, repairing, maintaining
or operation of its mains, pipes or any of its facilities or equipment used for
the sale, transportation and distribution of gas hereunder, including making
cuts, disturbances and excavations in the public streets and public ways,
except for loss, cost or expense caused by the negligence of SOUTHPORT. COMPANY
shall file with SOUTHPORT certificates for liability insurance in the amount of
at least $1,000,000.00.
By acceptance of this franchise, COMPANY hereby holds SOUTHPORT, its officers,
agents and employees, free and harmless from all damages and claims for damage
and from all personal injuries and deaths, which may arise or in any manner
grow out of or result in any way from its installation, operation, maintenance
or repair of its mains, pipes, conduits or any of its facilities, except for
damages and claims for damage caused directly by the negligence of SOUTHPORT.
18.    ASSISTANCE IN LOCATING COMPANY FACILITIES.
In the event of an emergency situation in which SOUTHPORT requires information
or assistance in locating COMPANYS lines or other facilities, COMPANY agrees to
make its best effort to furnish a competent person at SOUTHPORTS designated
location to locate said lines or facilities within one hour of such request by
SOUTHPORT.
In the event of a non-emergency situation in which SOUTHPORT requires
information or assistance in locating COMPANYS lines or other facilities,
COMPANY agrees to furnish a competent person at SOUTHPORTS designated location
to locate said lines or facilities within 48 hours of such request by
SOUTHPORT.
19.    INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE.
In the event of an interruption of service to its customers or the failure to
supply gas for reasons beyond the control of COMPANY, COMPANY shall comply with
Sections 21 & 31 of COMPANYS North Carolina Service Regulations as approved by
the NCUC and any other applicable regulatory authority in restoring service and
notifying its customers.
20.   ACCESS TO BOOKS & RECORDS.
During the period of this franchise, SOUTHPORT shall have the right to review
at reasonable times the books and records of COMPANY relating to its property
and business transactions in the City of Southport for purposes of conducting
an excise tax audit. SOUTHPORT shall have the right and privilege, at its own
expense, to examine, audit and copy such books and records. COMPANY shall also
allow SOUTHPORT to review or inspect maps of its transmission and distribution
system within the city which shall be maintained up to date by COMPANY.
21.    RATE INCREASE.
If COMPANY files any notice, application, petition or request to increase its
rates or make any change which would have the effect of increasing its rates,
COMPANY shall comply with all rules, regulations and requirements of the NCUC
regarding the giving of proper notice to SOUTHPORT and its customers of said
request or filing. Upon request of SOUTHPORT, COMPANY agrees to provide a
representative to meet with the Board of Aldermen or designated staff member to
explain the reasons for the rate request.
22.    ASSIGNMENT OF FRANCHISE.
COMPANY shall not sell, transfer, assign or lease its system within the City of
Southport, or a substantial part thereof, or transfer any of its rights under
the franchise to another person or entity, without the prior written approval
of SOUTHPORT. Furthermore, no sale, transfer, assignment or lease shall be
effective until the purchaser, assignee or lessee has filed with the City Clerk
an agreement acceptable to the City reciting the terms of the transfer and
accepting and agreeing to be bound by all the terms and conditions of the
franchise. This provision does not apply to the creation of a security interest
in COMPANYs system for the purpose of securing financing nor to an assignment
or transfer to a surviving entity in a corporate reorganization.
23.    REVOCATION.
This franchise shall be effective from the date of final adoption by SOUTHPORT
and acceptance by COMPANY. It may not be revoked by SOUTHPORT unless COMPANY
violates any of the terms, covenants or conditions hereof or fails to comply
with the regulations of the NCUC and COMPANY fails to remedy such violation or
noncompliance within 30 days from notice by SOUTHPORT of such failure ,
violation or noncompliance.
24.    CHANGES OR AMENDMENTS.
No agreement, term or condition not set forth herein shall have any efficacy or
validity. No change or amendment hereto shall be effective until lawfully
adopted by CITY and agreed to by COMPANY.
25.    ACCEPTANCE BY FRANCHISEE. 
Unless this ordinance is executed and accepted by COMPANY within 30 days after
its final passage by SOUTHPORT, it shall not become effective and shall be null
and void anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding.
Finally adopted this 12 day of June, 2008.
CITY OF SOUTHPORT
         /s/ Sandra P. Spencer
ATTEST:      By: Mayor
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk
ACCEPTANCE OF FRANCHISE
Piedmont Natural Gas Company, Inc., pursuant to authority duly granted, does
hereby accept and approve the foregoing Franchise Ordinance and all of its
terms and conditions, and in consideration of the benefits and privileges
granted to it, does hereby agree to abide by, carry out, observe and perform
all of its obligations hereunder.
This the ___ day of ______, 2008.
PIEDMONT NATURAL GAS COMPANY, INC.
_______________________________________
By: _____________________, Its ___________________________
ATTEST:
___________________
Its ________________
(Corporate Seal)
b)    Resolution Regarding the Conditional Use Permit Application #08-0212-01
Attorney Isenberg asked the Board to adopt the resolution recognizing that the
prior hearing was not done correctly and the applicant is entitled to proceed
with their application asking for a height adjustment, and the procedures to be
followed are outlined in the following resolution. Resolution will clarify the
situation with the prior application.
Alderman Fisher motioned to approve the resolution regarding conditional use
permit application #08-0212-01, seconded by Alderman Adams, vote carried.
RESOLUTION REGARDING CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT APPLICATION #08-0212-01
THAT WHEREAS, the requisite legal procedures required by state and local law
were not followed by the City in the hearing and consideration of Conditional
User Permit Application #08-0212-01 filed by Southport Marina, Inc. on or about
February 12, 2008; and
WHEREAS, as a result thereof, there has not been a legally valid decision
regarding said application; and
WHEREAS, the applicant is entitled to a valid hearing and decision on said
application pursuant to state and local law;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the City of Southport Board of Aldermen as
follows:
1.   That the applicant is entitled for the above-referenced application to be
heard de novo by the City under the procedures of its Unified Development
Ordinance in effect at the time of said hearing.
2.   That the applicant is entitled for the substantive provisions of the UDO
in effect as of February 12, 2008, to be applied at said quasi-judicial hearing
including (1) building height limits allowing for consideration of a
conditional use permit application in order to exceed the forty foot height
requirement and (ii) the four criteria set forth as Section 12-17 (A)-(D).
This the 12th day of June, 2008.
City of Southport
/s/ Sandra P. Spencer
Mayor
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk
IX.
New Business
a)   Budget Amendments 13, 14, 15
Alderman Fisher moved to approve budget amendments 13, 14, 15 per
recommendation of the Finance Director, seconded by Alderman Frink, vote
carried.
Budget Amendment #13
Fiscal Year 2007-2008
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, in Board
assembled regular, session on June 12, 2008 that the following Budget Amendment
be adopted for funding fiscal year-end line item adjustments and for funding
received from FEMA Fire Grant for the Fire Dept., Crime Control Grant for
Police Dept. and ABC revenue for Police Dept. The departments with 0.00 amounts
indicate that no extra revenue was needed and we were able to move money around
within that department to balance the line items.
General Fund
Section I
                                    Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
A.    Revenue Anticipated
      Interest & Penalties on 4000s
      Taxes Prior Years       1200
      ABC Revenue for Law Enf.500
      Grant Proceeds          4138
      FEMA Fire Grant         42,750
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
      Board                   0.00
      Administration          0.00
      Buildings & Grounds     0.00
      Garage                  0.00
      Police                  4,638            896,443
      Fire Department         42,500           447,715
      Code Enforcement        0.00
      Rescue                  5200             172,055
      Street                  0.00
      Solid Waste             0.00
      Parks & Recreation      0.00
      Tourism                 0.00
                                                     4,993,668
 
ADOPTED this the 12th day of June, 2008
/s/ Sandra P. Spencer
Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk to the Board of Aldermen
Budget Amendment #14
Fiscal Year 2007-2008
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled regular session on June 12, 2008 that the following Budget Amendment
be adopted for funding fiscal year-end line item budget reclassifications.
Electric Fund
Section IV
                                Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
A.   Revenue Anticipated
      Customer Underground100,000
      Service Charges     2,500
      Misc. Income        3,000
C.   Appropriated Expenditures
      Salaries            5,000
      Revenue Collection F500
      Customer Development90,000
      Capital Outlay –Sy-50,000
        Power Purchase   60,000
                                                 6,947,985
 
ADOPTED this the 12th day of June 2008
/s/ Sandra P. Spencer
Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk to the Board of Aldermen
Budget Amendment # 15
Fiscal Year 2007-2008
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session June 12, 2008 that the following Budget Amendment
be adopted for mid-year adjustments on revenue and expenditures within the
Water/Sewer Fund.
Water/Sewer Fund
                               Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section V
A.   Revenue Anticipated
      Misc. Revenue      1000
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
   Water Supply-Lab         1000
   Travel Training          2000
   Water Purchase           80,000
   Sewer Impact Fees        - 20,000
   Garage Exp to Gen Fund   10
   Contract Services        - 63,010
                                                3,064,630
 
ADOPTED this the 12th day of June, 2008
/s/ Sandra P. Spencer
Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk to the Board of Aldermen
b)    Audit Contract
Alderman Fisher moved to approve the contract with Brock, Berry, Padgett and
Chandler, PLLC, asking that the audit be submitted per the schedule in the
contract, seconded by Alderman Frink, vote unanimous. (Copy of Audit Contract
Incorporated as Attachment #2)
c)    Resolution to add City Manager to the accounts with BB&T and Security
Savings Bank
Alderman Potter motioned to approve the above referenced resolutions, seconded
by Alderman Boguskie, vote carried.
d)   Tax Releases
Alderman Fisher moved to approve the following tax releases, seconded by
Alderman Frink, vote carried.
 
Bill/Parcel Name/Acct No    Date     Amt Released Value Released Reason Release
No.
                                                                 Billed w/
237EG001    Alicia B. Evans 2007 tax 190.34       119,680        parcels
                                                                 237EG006 &
                                                                 237EG00501
                                                                 Boat moved to
4717        Donald Barnett  2002 tax $122.47      20,300         Wrightsville
                                                                 Beach 2001
5969        W. K. Plymale   2007 tax 4.89         3,150          Sold Boat in
                                                                 2006
6023        William Vann    2007 tax 12.27        7,937          Sold Boat in
                                                                 2004
Total                                329.97
 
e)   Resolution in support of Dialysis Center to be located in Southport
Alderman Fisher motioned to approve the resolution in support of a Dialysis
Center, seconded by Alderman Frink, vote carried.
Resolution
Whereas, 26 million Americans have Chronic Kidney Disease, and
Whereas, 20 million more people are at risk, and
Whereas, many millions of Americans suffer from diseases that contribute to
kidney failure, and
Whereas, we all have relatives or know of someone that is on dialysis, and
Whereas, citizens in Southport and surrounding communities have expressed an
interest in having a Dialysis Center located in Southport, and
Whereas, we realize that many people are traveling from Southport and
surrounding communities to take dialysis treatment in Wilmington, NC and other
areas, and
Whereas, we the Mayor and Southport Board of Aldermen ask Dosher Hospital staff
and the Hospital Board of Trustees to support and make every effort possible to
help establish a Dialysis Center in Southport,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Southport Board of Aldermen will
support the Hospital Board of Trustees and staff to encourage the establishment
of this facility that will benefit many of our citizens.
ADOPTED, this the 12th day of June 2008.
/s/ Sandra P. Spencer
Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
Alderman Fisher stated adoption of the above referenced resolution is a result
of a citizen from Caswell Beach appearing before the Board of Aldermen
approximately three years ago and asked the Board to consider a resolution of
support for a Dialysis Center. He requested staff forward a copy to Dosher
Hospital and surrounding communities.
f)   Report on Feline Control Ordinance
Attorney Isenberg stated he and the Animal Control Officer were asked to work
on an Ordinance that addresses the cat situation. He gave the Board a copy of
the current City Animal Control Ordinance and attached a copy of proposed
revisions that he and Charles Drew drafted. He asked the Board to review the
draft changes and provide their comments to him in order to finalize a
document.
g)   Sewer Connections/Annexation Issues
Executive Session: 8:30 p.m. – Alderman Brown moved to enter closed session to
receive legal advice from the City Attorney on sewer and annexation issues. The
motion was seconded by Alderman Potter, vote carried. (Executive session
minutes will remain sealed until public inspection no longer frustrates the
purpose of the closed session.)
Regular Session Reconvened – 9:31 p.m.
Alderman Adams motioned to re-enter regular session, seconded by Alderman
Potter, vote carried.
In regular session, Attorney Isenberg announced no action taken; the council
sought legal advice concerning different alternatives available in reference to
annexation, under various alternatives. Council also asked for legal advice on
the current contract with the Southeast Brunswick Sanitary District for
wastewater treatment.
X.
Other Business
City Manager Thornton reported that two bids were received for the public
restrooms at the Garrison House and monies are budgeted. Alderman Boguskie
stated that there is not sufficient wall space for the changing stations that
were originally requested. Staff will proceed to award the bid to the lowest
bidder, R. L. Jones & Son.
Dr. Patt Carney, a member of the Associated Artists thanked the Board and
public for its support and informed them that the elevators at the Franklin
Square Art Gallery are completed and functional. A dedication will be held July
18, 2008 from 6 to 8:00 p.m.
Mr. Bill Vann of 506 St. George Street apprised the Board of a project to raise
funds to purchase two wheel vehicles for veterans.
Mr. Peter Mac Queen, President of the Humane Society of Eastern North Carolina
and a member of the coalition society for the humane treatment of animals has
assisted with the cat issue in Southport. He stated the trap; neuter, spay and
release program that was implemented in Southport has helped to alleviate most
of the cat problems. They have found homes for the cats and relocated them.
This program is a non-lethal method for protecting stray cats that are being
fed by citizens which is effective. He stated that he realizes that there needs
to be an answer for the nuisance problem. It was requested that it be taken
into account that the ordinance does not promote the killing of animals, and
that the ordinance includes a provision that requires proof of wrongdoing on
the part of a cat and the coalition society for the humane treatment of animals
be considered for input when drafting the City's Ordinance.
XII.
Board Comments
Alderman Fisher informed the Board that he was told that Progress Energy has
asked for a fuel adjustment charge of 16.2% and he will be having subsequent
meetings with the Rate Committee and Commissioners of the NCEMPA. A
recommendation will be forthcoming in July and it appears that the Power Agency
rate adjustment will take place in August.
Alderman Boguskie thanked Randy Jones for the expeditious manner in getting the
public restrooms ready for July 4 Holiday.
Alderman Adams asked that the City Manager and Interim Director of Public
Services contact Norman Holden, DOT liaison about the condition of Leonard
Street and asked that it be re-paved as soon as possible.
City Manager Thornton thanked the Board and staff for the welcoming reception
and the opportunity to work for the City of Southport.
Adjournment – 9:46 p.m.
No further business, Alderman Boguskie motioned to adjourn, seconded by
Alderman Brown, vote carried.
_______________________________
Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
___________________________
Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
EXECUTIVE SESSION
 
EXECUTIVE SESSION MINUTES SOUTHPORT
June 12, 2008             BOARD OF ALDERMEN
 
The Board of Aldermen met in closed session to consult with and receive legal
advice from the City Attorney on legal issues related to annexation and the
Southeast Brunswick Sanitary District's contract.
Attorney Isenberg informed the Board regarding the legal issues facing the
Board in its attempt to annex property across the Progress Energy canal.
Isenberg told the Board about the various alternatives and options which the
Board should consider. He briefed the Board about discussions with the Progress
Energy Plant Manager and attorney related to these legal issues and how the
city might solve the problems. He reported that Progress Energy may be willing
to assist the city in crossing the canal by subdividing a parcel of property,
but that Progress asked for assurances that the City will not annex the Plant.
Isenberg reported that he would discuss an agreement concerning this with the
Progress Energy attorney. The Board reviewed the alternatives and expressed its
desire to proceed up 211 as far as possible.
Next, the Board discussed the Southeast Sanitary District situation with
Attorney Isenberg. He informed the Board that he had met with the districts
attorneys and it is the Sanitary District's contention that it will be entitled
to damages if Southport goes with the county due to rising construction costs
and increased engineering fees, which resulted from its reliance on Southport
partnering with it. After discussion with Isenberg regarding the districts
claims, the Board expressed its general desire for the city manager to still
talk to the county about the county alternatives.
No further discussion, motion by Alderman Boguskie, seconded by Alderman Adams
to re-enter regular session.
_________________________________
Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
_____________________________
Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
JUNE 18, 2008
SPECIAL MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
JUNE 18, 2008     6:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
            Aldermen Nelson E. Adams, Donnie Potter, James Brown,
            Richard "Ed" Boguskie, Jwantana Frink and Paul Fisher
ABSENT:         None
STAFF PRESENT:      Alan Thornton, City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander, CMC, City Clerk
I.
Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Spencer called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m. and announced the
purpose of the special meeting is to discuss wastewater issues.
II.
Invocation
Alderman Brown delivered the invocation.
III.
Wastewater Discussion
City Manager Thornton stated the purpose of the meeting is for the Board to
give staff directions with wastewater issues and to clarify to the public the
Board's intent regarding this issue.
Alderman Potter stated he believes the Southeast Brunswick Sanitary District
(SBSD) is vague in the direction they want to proceed. He explained during
meetings with SBSD, County and staff, it has been his contention that the city
should negotiate with the County because it is his belief that it is in the
City's best interest and he supports negotiating with Brunswick County to
provide sewer.
Alderman Boguskie stated a decision needs to be made because the city does not
have any sewer allocation, which is a pressing issue with some projects. The
city is under a moratorium and needs direction in order to give the Clean Water
Management Trust information in a timely manner. He supports negotiating with
the County.
Alderman Frink agreed since the City does not have any sewer allocation to
collaborate with the County.
Alderman Fisher stated it is time to move; the SBSD proposed to raise the rates
and their plan was rejected; and if it is Board consensus, he agrees to
negotiate with the County and requested the City Manager contact the County for
the best offer.
Alderman Adams stated the Sewer Committee worked hard and the Board should
accept their recommendation; he sees no other alternative but to pursue Option
1 with Brunswick County.
Alderman Brown stated if the City elects to collaborate with Brunswick County;
it should pursue the Eastern Plant near Sunny Point so the city can use its
spray fields. He believes this is an advantage in seeking the best price for
Southport.
Alderman Boguskie motioned, seconded by Alderman Potter, that the Board of
Aldermen authorize and direct the City Manager to enter into discussion and
negotiation with Brunswick County for the purpose of reaching an agreement with
the county to provide wastewater treatment services to the city in accordance
with the proposal by the county heretofore identified as Brunswick County
Option 1. The vote of approval was unanimous.
Budget –FY 08-09
City Manager Thornton asked the Board for some directives so he could modify
the budget and submit the changes in the proposed budget for FY 08/09. He
reviewed the budget and made some adjustments. Some of the items discussed and
reviewed were:
·   Revenues vs. expenditures
·   Sewer and water rate, need to increase rates
·   Manager recommended tax increase to support general fund from 0.15 up to
0.18
·   Alderman Fisher stated a change in tax system is needed to take burden off
of the citizens, prefer to keep tax rate at 0.15
·   Fund balance for city's share of Lowe-White Park
·   Cut cemetery paving – Alderman Adams asked if some paving could be left in,
it was his hope that the city could pave two roads this year
·   Alderman Fisher stated the South Road needs priority; Alderman Adams stated
plots are located in this vicinity; possibility Building Inspector can do a
survey to locate the plots.
·   Board contingency deleted. Adams explained this fund was used in case of
emergency, such as hurricanes, etc. to purchase supplies without purchase
order.
·   Kingsley Re-hab Project will require further review, deleted $20,000. Drain
that need to be repaired. City Manager will possibly put in $10,000 and $10,000
in Board contingency.
·   City garage, need to replace retired mechanic
·   Christmas Lights cut. Manager will meet with Randy Jones about merchants
possibly assisting with this project. Alderman Boguskie requested $600 to
purchase new lights for the old wreaths.
·   Alderman Brown inquired about boat slip rentals should be adjusted
·   Alderman Fisher inquired about Garrison House rentals
·   Alderman Fisher asked that the City Manager prioritize deletions and if
funds becomes available, to add some of them back
·   Fire Department – expenditures offsets revenues
Alderman Adams told Mayor Spencer the Fire Committee is still in the planning
stages of a design to present to the Board, however; the Board of Aldermen has
approved the general concept
Consensus of the Board that services cannot be reduced and a tax increase is
not favorable with anyone, but the city must continue to provide services and
directed the City Manager to move forward with his recommendations on the
proposed FY 2008-2009 budget. (Public Hearing June 30, 2008, 6:00 pm)
Cape Fear Council of Governments - Contract
The Board upon motion of Alderman Brown, seconded by Alderman Fisher authorized
the City Manager to enter into contract with the Cape Fear Council of
Governments for Penny Tysinger to conduct a workshop June 26, 2008 with the
City's Board of Adjustments on conditional use permits with the contract amount
not exceeding $500.00. The vote of approval was unanimous.
Oak Island
Mayor Spencer read a bill that has been drafted by Representative Stiller
removing Oak Island from the requirement that it has to be within proximity of
a another municipality to enact satellite annexation. If the bill passes, Oak
Island will have the ability to annex any property in the county not closer to
a municipality. The Board of Aldermen needs to send a letter opposing this
bill.
Alderman Brown motioned to authorize the City Manager to send a resolution
vehemently opposing this bill to Representative Stiller, seconded by Alderman
Potter. The vote of approval was unanimous.
Adjournment – 7:30 p.m.
No further business, meeting adjourned upon motion of Alderman Potter, seconded
by Alderman Brown. Vote carried.
_________________________________
/s/Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
_____________________________
/s/Regina W. Alexander, CMC-Clerk
JUNE 30, 2008
SPECIAL MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
JUNE 30, 2008     6:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, NC
 
PRESENT:          Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
            Aldermen Nelson Adams, Donnie Potter,
            James Brown, Richard “Ed” Boguskie, Jwantana Frink and Paul Fisher
ABSENT:           None
STAFF PRESENT:       Alan Thornton, City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander, CMC, City Clerk
            Patty Miller, Finance Officer
            Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
            Randy Jones, Director of Tourism
            Charles Drew, Code Enforcement
            Teresa Parker, Clerk, Finance Office
I.
Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Spencer called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
II.
Invocation
Prayer delivered by Alderman Brown
III.
Budget Amendments 
Alderman Fisher moved to approve budget amendments 17 and 18 upon
recommendation of the Finance Officer, seconded by Alderman Boguskie, vote
carried.
Budget Amendment #17
Fiscal Year 2007-2008
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, in Board
assembled Special Meeting on June 30, 2008 that the following Budget Amendment
be adopted for transferring revenue to Water & Sewer Fund in order to close
this capital project fund as approved by resolution by the Board on May 8,
2008.
WASTEWATER SYSTEM ENHANCEMENT
PHASE I
CAPITAL PROJECT FUND
                                  Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
A.    Revenue Anticipated
      Interest Earned       5577.57
      Transferred From WA/SW118579.54
      NC Revolving Loan Fund(12,304.74)      1,889,827.11
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
      Professional Fees     (17,704.89)
      Legal Fees            (34,000.00)
      Per. & Funding Asst.  (5000)
      Construction          (3183.50)
      Contingency           (9465.94)
      Transfer to WA/SW Fund181,206.70
                                                   1,889,827.11
 
ADOPTED this the 30th day of June, 2008
/s/ Mayor Sandra P Spencer
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, CMC
Clerk to the Board of Aldermen
Budget Amendment #18
Fiscal Year 2007-2008
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, in Board
assembled Special Meeting on June 30, 2008 that the following Budget Amendment
be adopted for transferring revenue from Capital Project Fund in order to close
this capital project fund as approved by resolution by the Board on May 8,
2008.
Water Sewer Fund
                                         Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
A.    Revenue Anticipated
      Transfer from Capital Project181,206.70
                                                          3,245,837.53
C.   Appropriated Expenditures
      Professional Fees            181,206.70
                                                          3,245,837.53
 
ADOPTED this the 30th day of June, 2008
/s/ Sandra P. Spencer
Mayor Sandra P Spencer
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
IV.
Public Hearing
Alderman Fisher moved to enter Public Hearing, seconded by Alderman Boguskie,
vote carried.
There were no public comments during the Hearing, motion by Alderman Fisher to
close the public hearing and re-enter regular session, seconded by Alderman
Adams, vote carried.
The City Manager presented the FY 08/09 budget with recommended changes with a
tax rate of $0.18 per $100 valuation of $893,327,500 with a tax collection of
98%, representing a $0.03 increase. The city's overall budget is $14,755,679
and general fund balance $4,582,975. The budget included recommended changes
discussed at the last meeting.
The Board commended staff on a job well done. Alderman Brown motioned to adopt
the budget, seconded by Alderman Boguskie. Discussion: Alderman Adams
questioned the salary figure in the departmental line item for Tourism, which
was explained that it included part time help; Alderman Fisher stated he
preferred to see the tax rate remain $0.15, questioned why the revenues
collected in the Garrison House line item showed zero, which he deemed as an
administrative error. Ms. Miller stated she would correct this by showing the
revenues. Northwood Cemetery paving was discussed and Wayne was asked for a
survey to show other gravesites near the south road. Mayor called for the vote
on the motion to adopt the budget for FY 08-09, the vote was unanimous. (Budget
Ordinance included as an official part of these minutes as Attachment #1)
The City Manager referenced a memo from the Clerk about compensation during her
tenure as Interim Manager. Alderman Brown motioned to give the Clerk a one-time
bonus of $5,000. The votes were 5 ayes, Alderman Brown, Adams, Potter, Frink,
and Boguskie. Alderman Fisher voted no, because it was his belief that a fixed
percentage would contribute towards the Clerk's retirement and social security
earnings, as she had originally requested.
Adjournment
No further business, motion to adjourn by Alderman Boguskie, seconded by
Alderman Potter, vote carried.
___________________________________
/s/Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
_______________________________
/s/Regina W. Alexander, CMC-Clerk
JULY 10, 2008
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING
JULY 10, 2008     7:30 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, NC
 
PRESENT:         Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
            Aldermen Nelson E. Adams, Donnie Potter, James Brown,
            Richard "Ed" Boguskie, Jwantana Frink and Paul Fisher
ABSENT:         None
STAFF:         M. Alan Thornton, City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander, CMC-City Clerk
            Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
            Patty Miller, Finance Officer
            Ralph Cardwell, Interim Public Services Director
            Randy Jones, Director of Tourism
            Charles Drew, Code Enforcement Officer
            Heather Hemphill, Director of Parks and Recreation
            Jerry V. Dove, Chief of Police
            Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
I.
Call To Order – 7:30 p.m.
Meeting called to order by Mayor Spencer.
II.
Invocation
Invocation delivered by Charles Drew, Pastor of Lighthouse Pentecostal Church
of Bolivia, NC
III.
Minutes
Alderman Potter motioned, seconded by Alderman Brown to approve the May 8
executive session minutes, May 14 special meeting minutes, May 29 special
meeting minutes, June 6 special meeting and executive session, June 10 special
meeting, June 12 regular meeting and executive session minutes, June 18 special
meeting, and June 30 special meeting minutes. Six (6) ayes, vote carried.
IV.
Approval of Agenda
Alderman Brown motioned to approve the agenda, seconded by Alderman Potter, six
(6) ayes, vote carried.
V.
Committee Reports
VI.
Department Reports
Reports included in agenda packet.
VII.
Old Business
a)   Amendment to Chapter 3, Code of Ordinance to include cats
Attorney Isenberg presented the proposed ordinance incorporating Section 3-11.1
which makes it unlawful to trap cats without a permit from the Animal Control
Officer. Discussion ensued with Animal Control Officer and questions answered.
Attorney Isenberg stated the ordinance does not require Public Hearing.
Alderman Brown motioned, seconded by Alderman Fisher to adopt the Amendment to
Chapter 3 Code of Ordinances to include cats. The votes were six (6) ayes, vote
carried.
Chapter 3 Code of Ordinances
BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport that the
following sections in Chapter 3 of the Code of Ordinances are hereby amended or
enacted to read as follows:
Section 3-0. Owner .
For purposes of this chapter, an owner is hereby defined as any person, group
of persons, firm, partnership, corporation or other entity owning, keeping,
having charge of or taking care of an animal or allowing an animal to remain on
his premises or property for more than 72 hours.
Section 3-1. Vaccination of Dogs and Cats.    
The owner of every dog or cat shall have the animal vaccinated against rabies
between 12 and 26 weeks of age, again one year later and then every three (3)
years by a licensed veterinarian or by a certified rabies vaccinator with a
rabies vaccine approved by the United States Department of Agriculture and
approved by the North Carolina Commission for Health Services for use in this
State.
Section 3-2. Registration.
Every owner or keeper of a dog or cat over four (4) months of age shall
register the dog or cat at Southport City Hall on or before July 15 of each
year and shall pay the annual license tax as set by the Board of Aldermen for
the privilege of keeping said dog or cat within the city limits.
Section 3-3.Collars and Tags.
(A)   The owner of a dog or cat must be able to produce a current rabies
vaccination certificate issued by a licensed veterinarian or certified
vaccinator. Every owner or keeper of a dog or cat shall see that his dog or cat
is wearing a collar with a current vaccination tag and city license tag
attached thereto regardless of whether or not the animal is on or off the
owner’s property. Rabies tags cannot be transferred from animal to animal. If a
rabies tag is lost, destroyed or stolen, a duplicate tag must be promptly
obtained from the veterinarian and attached to the animal’s collar.
(B)   If a dog or cat is observed not wearing a valid rabies vaccination tag
and the owner is unknown and cannot be found after a reasonable effort to
discover and locate the owner, the animal control officer or his designee may
seize the animal. The animal shall be transported to the Brunswick County
Animal Shelter to be impounded and redeemed in accordance with the regulations
and ordinances of Brunswick County. If the owner is found before impoundment,
the owner shall pay the civil penalty for failure of his animal to wear a valid
rabies vaccination tag. The owner may also be subject to other appropriate
penalties described herein, plus a civil penalty if the animal is being at
large.
Section 3-4.1. Nuisance by Cats.
(A) The owner or keeper of a cat shall be responsible for any cat(s) owned or
kept which creates a nuisance. The commission on more than one occasion of any
of the following qualifying act(s) or conditions described in numbers 1 through
8 shall be deemed prima facie evidence of a cat creating a nuisance:
(1)   gets into or turns over garbage pails or cans; or
(2)   walks on and sleeps in or on automobiles of another; or
(3)   damages gardens or other foliage or other real or personal property; or
(4)   defecates off of the owner’s premises unless said defecation is
immediately cleaned up and removed by the owner or keeper; or
(5)   is maintained in an unsanitary condition or lack of cleanliness so as to
be offensive to sight or smell or a danger to the public health; or
(6)   in estrus is not confined to a building or secure enclosure; or
(7)   while unprovoked, chases or approaches a pedestrian, bicycle rider or
other vehicle in a menacing fashion;
(8)   habitually and repeatedly makes noises sufficient to interfere with
neighboring residents reasonable use of their property.
It shall be a violation of this Ordinance for an owner to allow his cat(s) to
engage in any of the acts listed above on more than one occasion.
(B )   Upon receiving a first complaint regarding a cat or cat owner, and after
finding probable cause to believe that the cat or cat owner has committed one
or more acts listed in Subsection (A) above, the animal control officer may
issue a written or verbal warning to the owner. If Animal Services receives a
second complaint about a cat and after investigating said complaint determines
there is probable cause to believe that the cat or the owner has again engaged
in one or more acts described in Subsection (A) above, the animal control
officer may issue a written Declaration of Nuisance to the owner. If, while
Animal Services is investigating the second complaint, the cat is physically
caught on the property of another, it may be returned to its owner, if known,
if the owner can be located. No civil penalty shall be issued for the cat or
the owner allowing the cat to be a nuisance at this time. The Declaration of
Nuisance shall inform the owner that a civil penalty will be issued if the cat
or any other cat owned by him is found to be in violation of this Section
again. If the owner is known but can not be located or if the owner is unknown,
the cat may be seized and transported to the Brunswick County Animal Shelter to
be impounded and redeemed in accordance with the regulations and ordinances of
Brunswick County.
Section 3-8. Dogs & Cats in Heat.
 It shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper of any dog or cat which is in
estrus (commonly referred to as “heat”) to permit such dog or cat to be off the
property of its owner or keeper unless it is within a vehicle being driven on
the street. While on the owner’s property such dog or cat must be kept in a
building or other secure enclosure.
Section 3-11.1. Unlawful to trap dogs and cats .
(A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, organization or agency to trap, by
cage or other device, a dog or cat without a permit issued by the animal
control officer.
(1)   The animal control officer shall have the sole authority and discretion
to issue a permit for this purpose which shall be valid for 10 days. Any dog or
cat trapped pursuant to a permit shall be treated humanely and promptly turned
over to the animal control officer.
(2)   It shall not be unlawful for a person to apprehend a dog or cat on his
property by hand, provided, however, the person must notify the animal control
officer within 24 hours of catching the animal. Any dog or cat trapped pursuant
to a permit shall be treated humanely and promptly turned over to the animal
control officer.
Section 3-12. Cleaning up after dogs and cats.
Any person owning, keeping or harboring any dog or cat shall promptly remove
and dispose of all feces left by the dog or cat on public property and on any
private property not owned or lawfully occupied by such person within the city.
Section 3-13.1. Strays.
(A)   A stray is defined as “An animal within the city wandering at large or
lost without evidence of the identification of an owner, or any animal within
the town wandering at large whose owner, if determinable, has failed to pay for
and procure a license or vaccination tag.
(B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to harbor, feed, keep in possession
by confinement or otherwise maintain any stray animal which does not belong to
him or her, unless he or she has, within seventy two (72) hours from the time
such animal came into his or her possession, notified the animal control
officer.
(C)   When the Animal Control Officer or an Animal Services Officer has
determined that a person has violated Subsection (B) above, he may issue a
written Notice of Violation and Civil Penalty to the person in violation. Any
stray animal may be seized and transported to the Brunswick County Animal
Shelter to be impounded and redeemed in accordance with the regulations and
ordinances of Brunswick County.
(D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to surrender a stray animal
to Animal Services upon demand.
Adopted by the Board of Aldermen on July 10, 2008, upon motion of Alderman Paul
Fisher, seconded by Alderman James Brown. The vote was unanimous. (6 ayes,
Aldermen Fisher, Brown, Adams, Potter, Boguskie and Frink.)
/s/ Sandra P. Spencer
Mayor
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
B)   Garrison House Policy
Alderman Potter, Chairperson of the Fort Johnston Committee, presented the
following for Board consideration and stated the Committee recommended Option
2.
·   Option 1: Continue rental policy in place, allowing individuals and groups
the opportunity to rent the Garrison House for private functions.
·   Option 2: Cease rental program and have staff investigate the best use of
the facility and present recommendations to the Board of Aldermen.
Alderman Potter motioned to cease the rental program and to request the City
Manager to determine the best use of the facility and present recommendations
to the Board. Motion seconded by Alderman Boguskie. Discussion: Alderman Fisher
stated the overall program of the Garrison House success was contingent upon
the Community Building expansion and the Boardwalk project being completed,
however; that was discontinued because of improper design. Plans for the
Garrison House included a media, and visitor's center and other activities. He
stated that Lowe-White Park needed to be completed before plans for the
Garrison House could be accomplished, which included an extension of the
Community Building. Therefore, he is opposed to not renting the building.
Discussion was held on the Garrison House and questions arose about what
department the facility comes under. Alderman Adams asked for clarification.
City Manager Thornton stated in reviewing the grant application, the facility
was acquired for the public's recreational use and enjoyment under the lands to
parks program, and it is his intent to place it under the control of the Parks
and Recreation Department. He stated he would try to relocate individuals who
reserved the Garrison House. Mr. Jones stated no contracts were signed nor
deposits made, but two individuals requested used of the facility, however;
they were made aware that the Committee was considering a policy change.
Mayor Spencer called for the vote. 5 ayes, Aldermen Potter, Adams, Boguskie,
Frink and Brown. 1 no, Alderman Fisher.
VIII.
New Business
A)   Preliminary Sketch Design – Jonas Creek Project (Developers Cottage Point,
LLC and Southport Marina, LLC)
Mr. Dan Blackman, Planning Landscape Architect with Haden-Stanziale, presented
a preliminary sketch plan for the Jonas Creek project that consists of 20.19
acres. He stated ideas from community leaders and elected officials were
incorporated into the plan. Board members made favorable comments.
b)   Progress Energy Agreement Review – Attorney Isenberg
(Discussed in closed session)
c)   Tax Releases – Patty Miller, Finance Officer
Alderman Fisher motioned, seconded by Alderman Frink to approve the following
tax releases, vote carried.
 
Parcel No  Name/Acct #   Date     Amt. Released Value Released Reason for
                                                               Release
005974     Prevatte      7/1/08   12.44         7,990          Boat moved in
           Construction  2007 Tax                              2006
                         7/1/08                                Adjusted by
238IA02801 James Huntley 2007 Tax 114.15        76,100         NCProperty Tax
                                                               Comm.
TOTAL                             $126.59
 
IX.
Other Business
None
X.
Public Comments
Dr. Patt Carney of 111 West West Street acknowledged disappointment with the
Board by adopting a Cat Ordinance. She stated citizens would have gotten
involved to locate homes for the cats rather than sending them to Brunswick
County Animal Control to die.
Mrs. Laura Henderson of 6247 Lookout Point Drive (The Landing) told the Board
she was concerned that the Rescue Squad did not have standard operating
procedures to handle monies donated in memory of deceased individuals. She
stated that she would not have known that monies were donated to the Southport
Rescue Squad in memory of her deceased husband until those individuals who
contributed funds told her. She talked with the City Manager about this, but
wanted to make the Board of aware that there should be standard procedures to
acknowledge monetary gifts.
XI.
Board Comments
Alderman Adams requested Public Comments be moved to the beginning of the
meeting. He explained that it is his belief that some citizens do not wish to
sit through an entire meeting before being heard under the "public comment"
section of the agenda.
Alderman Brown requested that in addition to information sent by e-mail, that
hard copies be placed in Board members inter-office boxes.
Executive Session – 8:45 p.m.
Alderman Brown motioned to enter closed session to receive legal advice from
the City Attorney, seconded by Alderman Potter, vote unanimous.
(Executive session minutes will remain sealed until public review does not
frustrate the purpose of the closed session.)
Regular Session reconvened at 9:10 p.m.
Alderman Adams motioned to re-enter regular session, seconded by Alderman
Brown, vote unanimous.
City Manager Thornton told the Board the North Carolina League of
Municipalities
Annual Conference is scheduled for October 12-14 in Charlotte and registration
information has been received.
Recess – 9:15 p.m.
Motion by Alderman Potter to recess the meeting until July 16, 8:30 am,
seconded by Alderman Boguskie, vote carried.
Executive Session
 
Executive Session July 10, 2008
 
Attorney Isenberg briefed the Board on his negotiations with representatives
from Progress Energy regarding the city's request for Progress Energy to allow
the City to annex some of its property at the 211-discharge canal. Attorney
Isenberg discussed legal issues involving zoning, taxation and the Hwy 87
Progress Energy property and the legality of the City agreeing not to annex
additional Progress Energy property. Isenberg stated he hoped to bring an
agreement to the Board for its consideration soon. No action taken.
________________________________
/s/Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
_____________________________
/s/Regina W. Alexander, CMC
July 16, 2008
Recessed Meeting
 
July 16, 2008 Recessed Meeting
 
Present:         Mayor Spencer
            Aldermen Adams, Frink, Boguskie, Potter and Fisher
Absent:         Alderman Brown
Staff:            City Manager Thornton
            City Clerk Alexander
            City Attorney Isenberg
Mayor Spencer called the meeting back to order at 8:45 a.m.
Attorney Isenberg presented the agreement from Progress Energy and reviewed it
with the Board. After a brief summarization by the Attorney and explaining
terms of the Agreement with Progress Energy allowing the City to annex some of
its property at the 211 discharge canal, Alderman Fisher moved to approve the
Agreement and to authorize Mayor Spencer to execute it subject to any clerical
errors being corrected. The vote was unanimous.
(Agreement will be placed on file in the office of the City Clerk)
Adjournment – 9:10 a.m.
No further business, meeting adjourned upon motion of Alderman Potter, seconded
by Alderman Adams, vote carried.
_________________________________
/s/Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
____________________________
/s/Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
AUGUST 7, 2008
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
AUGUST 7, 2008    7:30 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
            Aldermen Nelson Adams, Donnie Potter, James Brown
            Ed Boguskie, Jwantana Frink and Paul Fisher
ABSENT:         None
STAFF:         Alan Thornton, City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander, CMC
            Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
            Patty Miller, Finance Officer
            Randy Jones, Director of Tourism
            Ralph Cardwell, Interim Director of Public Services
            Heather Hemphill, Director of Parks and Recreation
            Charles Drew, Code Enforcement Officer
            Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
            Jerry V. Dove, Chief of Police
I.
Call to Order – 7:30 p.m.
Mayor Spencer called the meeting to order at 7:30 p.m.
II.
Invocation
Reverend Skip Williams, Pastor of Trinity United Methodist Church delivered the
invocation.
Reverend Williams and graduating members of the 2008 class of South Brunswick
High School presented Mayor Spencer with a gift for being the guest speaker at
the Baccalaureate program.
III.
Approval of Minutes
Alderman Brown motioned, seconded by Alderman Boguskie, to approve the minutes
from July 10 regular meeting, executive session, and the July 16 recessed
session. The vote was unanimous.
IV.
Approval of Agenda
Alderman Adams motioned, seconded by Alderman Brown to approve the agenda. Vote
unanimous.
V.
Committee Reports
VI.
Department Reports
Reports included in agenda packet.
Chief Dove introduced newly hired officer Jesse Pierce, a resident of
Southport, and graduate of South Brunswick High School.
VII.
Old Business
None
VIII.
New Business
a)    Alley Closing Resolution
City Attorney Isenberg recognizing concerns from some Council members about
closing City alleys stated the resolution could be deferred. However, in
looking at plans for the fire department places the building near the alley,
which may pose a problem in meeting setback requirements. Alderman Adams asked
if other alternatives could be explored. Motion by Alderman Adams to defer
approval of the resolution, seconded by Alderman Potter. Vote unanimous.
b)    Electric Committee Recommendation – Alderman Fisher
Alderman Fisher stated after the Electric Committee's review of budget
requirements and expenses, the Electric Committee recommends that the City of
Southport implement 10.3% of the 14% increase passed on from the North Carolina
Electric Members Power Agency (NCEMPA). Motion made by Alderman Fisher,
seconded by Alderman Potter to implement a 10.3% energy rider effective August
1, 2008. The votes were 4 ayes, Aldermen Fisher, Boguskie, Potter and Brown. 2
noes, Aldermen Adams and Frink.
c)    Addendum to City of Southport Schedule of Fees
City Manager Thornton presented an addendum to the fee schedule to charge
companies that perform work within the boundaries of the City. He explained if
companies do not identify existing infrastructure before proceeding with work
and damages occur, they would be held responsible. Alderman Boguskie motioned,
seconded by Alderman Fisher and carried unanimously to adopt the following fee
schedule.
Department of Public/Services
Schedule of Rates and Fees
For Equipment and Services
Facilities Director/Manager hourly rate   $ 125.00 per hr.
Employee straight time hourly rate      $ 40.00 per hr.
Employee time and half hourly rate      $ 60.00 per hr.
Equipment Hourly Rate
Dump Truck               $ 35.00 per hr.
Jet Truck               $125.00 per hr.
Back Hoe               $ 75.00 per hr.
Combination Jet Vac Truck         $275.00 per hr.
Fuel surcharge market value per gallon
*Above rates are to be doubled for anyone performing work without any of the
proper permits or approval from the City of Southport
d)    Order of Collection
Alderman Brown motioned to approve the Order of Collection directing the Tax
Collector to bill and collect taxes, seconded by Alderman Potter, vote carried.
ORDER OF COLLECTION
State of North Carolina
City of Southport
To The Tax Collector of the City of Southport
You are hereby authorized, empowered, and commanded to collect the taxes set
forth in the tax records filed in the office of the City of
Southport, and in the tax receipts herewith delivered to you, in the amounts
and from the taxpayers likewise therein set forth. Such taxes are hereby
declared to be a first lien upon all real property of the respective taxpayers
in the City of Southport, and this order shall be full and sufficient authority
to direct, require, and enable you to levy on and sell any real or personal
property of such taxpayers, for and n on account thereof, in accordance with
law.
Witness my hand and official seal this the 7th day of August 2008.
/s/ Sandra P. Spencer
Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, CMC
e)   Consideration of Franchise Agreement for Ambulance Services
Alderman Potter motioned, seconded by Alderman Fisher to Approve the Franchise
Agreement for Ambulance Service between the County and Southport's Rescue
Squad. Vote unanimous. (Agreement will be on file in the office of the Clerk
upon execution by the County of Brunswick)
IX.
City Manager Comments/Other Business
a)     Mr. Thornton reported that the Brunswick County Register of Deeds office
is a U.S. Passport Application Acceptance Agency and representatives will be in
Southport September 8, from 1:00 – 3:00 p.m. to accept passport applications.
b)    The Transportation Committee met and reviewed the sidewalk improvement
plan. The Committee recommended implementing repairs. City Manager Thornton
stated Powell Bill funds may be utilized to make these repairs.
c)     Mr. Thornton reported that citizens in the Landing have requested speed
limit signs. He consulted with the Police Chief concerning this and the request
is being reviewed.
d)    Mr. Thornton reported that DOT representatives have been contacted about
the condition of Moore and Leonard Streets. (See resolution below)
e)     Complaints have been received from citizens concerning the condition of
Franklin Square Park and vehicle traffic in the park. City Manager Thornton
stated the City could stop vehicular traffic if the Board allows staff to place
a deterrent in the park, the same as established in other areas of the City.
(Noted were the Garrison Lawn and Masonic Building.) Board consensus was to
proceed with recommendations from the City Manager.
f)    City Attorney Isenberg informed the Board that the North Carolina Eastern
Municipal Power Agency has ownership (15%) in the Progress Energy Plant and
must approve the tract of land the City wishes to annex into its municipal
boundaries. The Agreement is a third party contract with no substantive
changes. A response should be forthcoming by August 22nd from the Power Agency.
Attorney Isenberg requested the Board approve the third party Agreement with
the North Carolina Eastern Municipal Power Agency, Progress Energy, and
authorize execution by Mayor Spencer. Motion by Alderman Potter to authorize
Mayor Spencer to sign the contract on behalf of the City, seconded by Alderman
Adams, the vote was unanimous. (Copy of Agreement will be placed on file in the
office of the City Clerk)
XI.
Public Comments
Mr. Bill Vann of 506 West St. George Street informed the Board and public that
bands are playing in the park free of charge to help raise money for Segways
for wounded veterans. He encouraged support and attendance.
Mrs. Cornelia Rogers asked the Board to consider allowing her to convert a
screened porch into a sunroom. The Building Inspector and the Zoning Board of
Adjustments did not approve the request because the porch encroaches on City
right of way. Mrs. Rogers stated the porch is an integral part of the house and
she has been paying taxes on the house including the porch. The house was built
in 1884 and closing in the porch would not result in appreciable change. She
believes by disallowing her to use her home to the full potential results in a
handicap for her. Attorney Isenberg told the Board legally that they cannot
permit someone to build on property they do not own, and the Board of Aldermen
cannot overrule the Board of Adjustments decision.
Mr. Strickland, Building Inspector explained that the Board of Adjustments
upheld his ruling. They told Ms. Rogers that the Board of Aldermen would have
to abandon that portion of right of way that her house sits on. He recommended
the Board not abandon right of way because of other similar situations in the
City, which could result in the City losing a lot of right of way. It was
explained that City Council elected years ago not to sue anyone encroaching on
the City's right of way, nor make anyone tear down their existing structure;
however, they would not permit any expansion or improvements to those non-
conforming uses. It was stated because City Council elected not to make
citizens tear down structures for encroaching on city right of way does not
mean that citizens own the property.
Mayor Spencer thanked Ms. Rogers empathizing with her dilemma, and reiterated
that the Board of Aldermen could not over rule the Board of Adjustments.
XII.
Board Comments
Alderman Fisher motioned, seconded by Alderman Adams to adopt the following
resolution to submit to DOT representatives and state legislators seeking
discretionary funds to pave Leonard and Moore Streets. The vote of approval was
unanimous.
RESOLUTION REQUESTING ACTION BY THE NCDOT DIVISION OF HIGHWAYS
WHEREAS, the citizens of the City of Southport and all those who visit,
appreciate and enjoy the unique history, charm and appeal that the Southport
area offers; and
WHEREAS, the safe use of State roads and highways is of utmost importance to
not only the citizens of Southport, but also to our visitors from this great
State and other states and countries; and
WHEREAS, the economy of Southport and the County of Brunswick are largely
dependent upon that of travel and tourism to generate significant tax revenues,
jobs and economic opportunity for residents of this area; and
WHEREAS, the condition of the State maintained roads within the City of
Southport and the greater Southport area are of significant concern;
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the City of Southport Board of Aldermen
respectfully request and call upon Governor Mike Easley, Secretary of
Transportation Lyndo Tippett, Division 3 Board of Transportation member Lanny
T. Wilson, Division 3 Engineer H. Allen Pope, PE and District Engineer Anthony
Law to take the action necessary to restore and maintain the condition and
integrity of Leonard Street (SR 1527), East Moore Street (NC 211) and
Jabbertown Road (SR 1526) to an acceptable and more easily navigable condition.
DULY RESOLVED, THIS THE 7TH DAY of August 2008.
/s/ Sandra P. Spencer
Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, City Clerk
Alderman Boguskie stated the need for an elevator in City Hall and asked the
City Manager to seek grant funds to assist in the cost.
XIII.
Adjournment
No further business, motion made by Alderman Brown, seconded by Alderman Potter
to adjourn the meeting. Motion carried.
________________________________
/s/Sandra P. Spencer
Mayor
_______________________________
/s/Regina W. Alexander, CMC
City Clerk
SEPTEMBER 11, 2008
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
SEPTEMBER 11, 2008 7:30 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS  SOUTHPORT, NC
 
PRESENT:         Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
            Aldermen Nelson Adams, Donnie Potter, James Brown, Ed Boguskie
            Jwantana Frink and Paul Fisher
ABSENT:         None
STAFF:         Alan Thornton, City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander, MMC, City Clerk
            Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
            Patty Miller, Finance Officer
            Randy Jones, Director of Tourism
            Ralph Cardwell, Interim Director of Public Services
            Heather Hemphill, Director of Parks & Recreation
            Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
            Jerry V. Dove, Chief of Police
            Gregory Cumbee, Fire Chief
I.
Call to Order – 7:30 p.m.
Mayor Spencer called the meeting to order at 7:32 p.m.
II.
Invocation
Alderman Brown gave the invocation.
III.
Approval of Minutes
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Frink to approve the regular
meeting minutes of August 7, 2008. The vote was unanimous.
IV.
Approval of Agenda
Alderman Brown motioned, seconded by Alderman Fisher to approve the agenda.
Vote carried.
Mayor Spencer complimented the City Clerk for having received her Master
Municipal Clerk's Certification, which is the highest level a Clerk can obtain
in the profession.
V.
Woodmen of the World – Presentation of American Flags
Ms. Tammy Wilson and Tammy Campbell, representing Woodmen of the World,
presented flags to the City that will be erected at the Visitor's Center, Fort
Johnston and City Hall. They explained that the Woodmen of the World are
committed to family, community and the country. Since 2003, the Woodmen have
presented in excess of 198,621 US and State flags to non-profit organizations.
Mayor Spencer extended thanks and accepted the flags on behalf of the City.
VI.
Committee Reports
Electric Committee: Alderman Fisher reported that the Electric Committee met on
Tuesday September 9 with Brunswick Electric to review and discuss the work
plan:
·   Sub station
·   Tree Trimming
·   Work Orders
·   Outage Identification
·   Underground
The meeting concluded with a discussion on the recent storm Hanna. Brunswick
Electric employees and City staff were commended on the manner in which they
worked to restore the power and to replace down power lines. The meeting
concluded with both parties discussing future plans and how to better serve the
citizens of Southport.
Alderman Fisher stated for information that Dominican Power, which is located
in Virginia but service customers in North Carolina, requested a fuel
adjustment of 17.3% for residential customers, 22.6% commercial, and 26.8%
industrial.
VII.
Departmental Reports
Reports included in agenda packets.
VIII.
Old Business
a)   N. C. DOT presentation on roundabout project at E. Moore Street and Ferry
Road
Anthony Law, District Engineer for New Hanover and Brunswick Counties,
explained that a public information meeting was held April 2008. DOT
representatives were asked to provide additional information related to the
function of a roundabout.
Other DOT staff members present were John Rhone, Assistant District Engineer,
Danny Cumbo, Division Traffic Engineer, and Ben Hughes, Assistant Division
Traffic Engineer. A power point presentation on locations with roundabouts was
shown. The United Stated began using roundabouts in the 1900's because they are
safer compared to regular intersections. Mr. Cumbo explained that roundabouts
have eight conflict points that causes reduction in fuel use and emissions.
There is not as much stop and go, better capacity for traffic flow, delay is
lower compared to other intersections with DOT designs accommodating truck
traffic, which has more flexibility. Other benefits include traffic calming and
speed reduction, pedestrian and bicycle, easy to determine gaps with vehicles
coming from one direction and fewer lanes to cross. Studies were conducted
which resulted in this data.
b)   Resolution to close public alley
Attorney Isenberg presented the following resolution to call for Public Hearing
to consider closing a public alley. In his review of the sketch plan, he
believes the alley will need to be closed to meet setback requirements to
accommodate the fire station. Alderman Fisher motioned, seconded by Alderman
Brown to adopt the resolution calling for Public Hearing on October 9. Vote
unanimous.
RESOLUTION TO CLOSE PUBLIC ALLEY
THAT WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport proposes to
permanently close the public
alley in Block 7A of the Smith & Weeks Addition to the City of Southport , said
alley being more particularly described as follows:
Being that certain public alley which runs from the northern line of 10th
Street in a northerly direction to its terminus in Block 7A of the Smith &
Weeks Addition to the City of Southport as shown on a map recorded in the Book
of Division of Lands and Dowers at Page 10 of the Brunswick County Registry,
said alley running parallel with Howe Street and Lord Street and between the
two streets; and
WHEREAS, prior to the closing of said alley, it is necessary for the Board of
Aldermen to hear all interested persons on the question of whether or not the
closing would be detrimental to the public interest, or the property rights of
any individual;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport pursuant to G. S. 160A-299 as follows:
1.   That the City of Southport intends to permanently close that certain
public alley as described above.
2.   That a public hearing on said closing shall be held at 7:30 pm on October
9, 2008 at Southport City Hall, 201 E. Moore Street, Southport, N. C.
3.   That a copy of this resolution shall be published once a week for four (4)
successive weeks prior to the hearing, a copy hereof shall be sent by
registered or certified mail to all owners of property adjoining the public
alley as shown on the county tax records, and a notice of the closing and
public hearing shall be prominently posted in at least two (2) places along
said alley.
This the 11th day of September 2008.
CITY OF SOUTHPORT
By:
/s/ Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, Clerk
IX.
New Business
a)   Consideration of Resolution of Intent to Annex
Attorney Isenberg explained that this is the first step in the annexation
process. All parties have signed the Agreement and the plat has been recorded.
Mr. Holland prepared two options; 1A includes fewer lots than option 3, which
picks up 11 lots on Jabbertown Road. The purpose of the resolution of intent is
to inform the public that the City is considering annexing property.
Mr. Holland stated if the Board adopts the resolution, the annexation plan and
report must be approved thirty days before the public information meeting. The
plan must be delivered to the County thirty days prior to, which results in the
Board scheduling a special meeting on Friday, September 26 to approve the
annexation plan and report. The Plan and report will describe the basis of the
annexation, why the area qualifies and define the services to be provided, the
circumstances under which they will be provided and it will be a financial
statement as to the impact, revenues and expenses.
Discussion: Mr. Holland stated that Option 3 has stronger qualifications to
satisfy the statutory definition of an urban area and meets the subdivision
test. Alderman Adams stated it is unfair to annex a few property owners when
there is more lucrative property that can be annexed. He reiterated his support
for Option 1A.
Mr. Holland and Attorney Isenberg agreed that if less is taken in, the City
might not qualify for annexation. The City meets the minimum requirement for an
urban area but the subdivision test is very critical. The lots in area 1A are
at 61.03%, which has a small margin of error. They added 11 parcels as a minor
adjustment to strengthen the City's position on the subdivision test at 63.43%.
No further discussion, motion by Alderman Fisher to adopt the Resolution of
Intent approving Option 3 for annexation, and to schedule a Special Meeting
Friday, September 26, 9:00 a.m., motion seconded by Alderman Potter. The votes
were 5 ayes: Aldermen Fisher, Potter, Brown, Frink, and Boguskie. 1 no vote,
Alderman Adams. Motion passed.
RESOLUTION OF INTENT
A RESOLUTION STATING THE INTENT OF THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT TO CONSIDER ANNEXATION
OF THE AREA DESCRIBED HEREIN AND FIXING THE DATE OF A PUBLIC INFORMATIONAL
MEETING AND A PUBLIC HEARING ON THE QUESTION OF ANNEXATION
BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport that:
Section 1. It is the intent of the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport
to consider annexation of the following described territory pursuant to Chapter
160A, Article 4A, Part 2 of the General Statutes of North Carolina:
(See Attachment A, property description).
Section 2. A public informational meeting on the question of annexing the
territory described in Attachment A and as shown on attached map (Attachment B)
will be held at Southport City Hall at 1:00 p.m., on October 29, 2008, at which
time plans for extending services to said territory will be explained and all
residents and property owners in said territory and the City of Southport will
be given an opportunity to ask questions and receive answers regarding the
proposed annexation.
Section 3. A public hearing on the question of annexing the above-described
territory will be held at Southport City Hall at 6:30 p.m., on November 20,
2008, at which time plans for extending services to said territory will be
explained and all residents and property owners in said territory and all
residents of the City of Southport will be given an opportunity to be heard.
Section 4. A report of plans for extending services to the above-described
territory shall be made available for public inspection at the office of the
City Clerk at least thirty (30) days prior to the date of the public
informational meeting. The statement of financial impact contained in the
report shall be delivered to the Brunswick County Board of Commissioners at
least thirty (30) days prior to the date of the public informational meeting.
Section 5. A legible map of the area to be annexed and a list of persons
holding freehold interests in property in the area to be annexed who have been
identified shall be posted in the office of the City Clerk at least thirty (30)
days prior to the date of the public informational meeting.
Section 6. The effective date of the annexation shall be not less than one year
following the date of adoption of the annexation ordinance.
Section 7. Notice of the public informational meeting and public hearing shall
be given by publication and by first class mail, as required by G.S. 160A-37.
Adopted this 11th day of September 2008.
/s/ Sandra P. Spencer
Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk
ATTACHMENT A
PROPERTY DESCRIPTION
BEGINNING at the southwest corner of tax parcel 221MA00111 (also known as Lot
20 in Block 9 of Southport Heights according to a map recorded in Book 14 at
Page 214 of the Brunswick County Registry) and run thence the following courses
and distances:
Attachment A
Line Direction    Distance
1    N 21-51-15 W 50.06
2    N 68-0-46 E  122.22
3    N 21-8-4 W   49.52
4    S 67-49-37 W 122.82
5    N 21-51-14 W 50.65
6    N 21-7-36 W  50.92
7    N 21-35-2 W  50.43
8    N 21-33-9 W  50.76
9    N 21-7-35 W  48.76
10   N 21-40-31 W 49.19
11   N 20-21-4 W  50.44
12   N 21-54-4 W  50.02
13   N 68-35-20 E 121.50
14   N 21-8-1 W   57.93
15   N 21-7-46 W  264.52
16   N 22-27-49 W 76.66
17   N 22-27-19 W 83.40
18   N 22-27-38 W 217.77
19   N 22-43-16 W 90.13
20   S 49-27-26 E 180.27
21   S 23-27-56 E 66.08
22   N 68-40-52 E 121.71
23   N 68-51-10 E 121.82
24   N 68-13-9 E  80.32
25   N 67-59-59 E 128.19
26   N 68-14-20 E 128.94
27   N 21-38-38 W 64.08
28   N 21-28-35 W 100.26
29   N 21-14-48 W 149.22
30   S 68-41-44 W 336.36
31   N 21-33-23 W 50.21
32   S 69-21-38 W 246.64
33   N 21-40-47 W 73.85
34   N 21-41-7 W  119.22
35   N 21-43-56 W 1.60
36   N 68-36-53 E 77.25
37   N 67-43-14 E 70.94
38   N 68-21-18 E 94.18
39   N 21-24-29 W 6.48
40   N 21-25-8 W  29.55
41   N 21-25-13 W 134.97
42   N 21-25-6 W  16.20
43   N 68-32-19 E 97.82
44   N 68-36-59 E 245.70
Page 1
45 N 21-17-51 W 186.47
46 N 20-8-11 W  0.33
47 S 69-2-45 W  45.79
48 N 18-4-47 W  12.22
49 S 68-48-17 W 199.86
50 N 21-5-18 W  94.64
51 N 21-4-16 W  40.82
52 S 69-34-15 W 58.88
53 S 69-0-0 W   48.95
54 S 68-54-13 W 76.55
55 S 41-23-43 W 78.84
56 N 73-12-50 W 59.30
57 S 69-2-3 W   1.19
58 S 69-20-28 W 0.68
59 S 68-47-50 W 2.59
60 S 68-55-10 W 142.81
61 S 68-55-8 W  241.01
62 S 20-58-52 E 35.00
63 S 20-59-3 E  237.30
64 S 20-59-8 E  112.21
65 S 20-58-55 E 91.03
66 S 21-7-29 E  0.49
67 S 21-7-54 E  1.82
68 S 21-7-34 E  9.68
69 S 21-3-48 E  31.68
70 S 20-52-29 E 1.32
71 S 21-5-20 E  84.94
72 S 21-5-9 E   195.64
73 S 63-59-48 W 0.95
74 S 64-29-58 W 170.02
75 S 65-3-22 W  0.49
76 S 48-6-35 W  51.33
77 S 35-27-39 E 2.71
78 S 35-23-41 E 0.49
79 S 73-34-40 W 1.03
80 S 73-28-41 W 216.19
81 N 21-10-20 W 264.19
82 N 21-10-9 W  271.58
83 N 21-10-32 W 191.05
84 S 50-44-7 W  1.70
85 S 50-43-33 W 35.66
86 S 50-43-10 W 146.27
87 S 50-42-43 W 99.98
88 S 50-42-57 W 184.37
89 S 50-42-57 W 154.50
90 S 46-22-29 W 2.76
91 S 46-41-5 W  2.00
Page 2
92  S 46-54-8 W  2.00
93  S 47-19-28 W 2.00
94  S 47-44-47 W 2.00
95  S 47-56-47 W 2.01
96  S 47-58-6 W  1.99
97  S 48-47-10 W 2.01
98  S 48-35-22 W 2.00
99  S 49-0-38 W  2.00
100 S 49-39-30 W 2.00
101 S 49-37-27 W 2.01
102 S 50-16-14 W 2.00
103 S 50-4-47 W  2.00
104 S 50-57-52 W 1.98
105 N 24-7-13 W  64.11
106 N 39-12-44 W 139.36
107 N 39-11-32 W 36.25
108 S 55-50-28 W 42.02
109 S 83-11-16 W 44.96
110 N 3-50-21 W  37.96
111 S 89-7-9 W   97.58
112 S 89-7-9 W   100.97
113 S 89-7-11 W  76.61
114 N 43-29-1 E  380.48
115 S 2-43-35 E  0.22
116 N 3-3-37 W   106.14
117 N 3-5-39 W   0.39
118 N 3-9-46 W   284.70
119 N 3-2-46 W   9.41
120 N 2-51-13 W  164.46
121 N 3-5-31 W   165.31
122 N 86-21-12 E 18.02
123 N 86-17-52 E 160.68
124 N 86-18-32 E 94.65
125 N 86-17-56 E 90.69
126 N 86-17-44 E 14.83
127 N 86-16-45 E 48.15
128 S 75-6-57 E  72.23
129 S 75-8-16 E  9.99
130 S 75-6-43 E  59.48
131 S 75-7-50 E  27.97
132 S 75-7-36 E  34.41
133 S 75-6-59 E  57.22
134 S 75-3-34 E  4.16
135 S 75-7-13 E  50.62
136 S 75-7-22 E  38.38
137 S 75-8-11 E  11.90
138 S 75-13-12 E 54.31
Page 3
139 S 75-12-2 E  55.38
140 S 75-12-29 E 47.70
141 S 75-11-50 E 48.15
142 S 21-4-12 E  39.70
143 S 67-50-22 W 45.07
144 S 15-51-58 W 119.07
145 S 15-50-59 W 53.17
146 S 16-47-31 W 85.60
147 S 3-12-27 W  217.08
148 N 55-15-10 E 94.27
149 N 58-37-18 E 32.09
150 N 60-36-3 E  14.02
151 N 62-54-1 E  39.52
152 N 66-30-52 E 45.35
153 N 51-9-2 E   39.81
154 N 51-9-37 E  58.07
155 N 51-8-50 E  56.06
156 N 51-9-47 E  56.81
157 N 20-54-42 W 22.79
158 N 66-15-6 E  63.71
159 N 20-7-16 W  111.28
160 N 20-7-33 W  154.61
161 N 20-46-37 W 52.15
162 N 21-8-0 W   55.07
163 N 21-8-9 W   57.46
164 N 21-8-10 W  95.97
165 N 21-8-3 W   67.92
166 N 21-7-48 W  36.15
167 N 69-50-3 E  252.03
168 N 0-5-27 E   276.07
169 N 19-27-22 E 60.08
170 N 26-49-35 W 57.22
171 N 28-37-33 W 200.14
172 N 31-58-17 W 33.42
173 N 31-57-37 W 173.61
174 N 64-22-58 E 300.22
175 N 34-46-16 W 51.60
176 N 34-28-13 W 49.66
177 N 37-9-8 W   181.79
178 N 37-9-0 W   82.24
179 N 38-41-55 W 269.57
180 N 40-9-30 W  524.50
181 S 55-32-33 W 100.00
182 N 49-13-38 W 1563.12
183 S 35-26-24 W 36.67
184 S 53-20-21 W 90.20
185 S 54-2-30 W  33.00
Page 4
186 S 58-18-55 W 64.89
187 S 55-41-15 W 80.59
188 S 55-43-5 W  81.67
189 S 55-39-33 W 81.16
190 S 55-39-17 W 81.11
191 N 35-2-1 E   75.03
192 N 35-2-8 E   75.17
193 N 35-2-48 E  75.90
194 N 35-2-5 E   74.23
195 N 34-56-6 E  74.73
196 N 34-40-19 E 27.81
197 N 34-27-17 E 51.52
198 N 34-42-54 E 110.97
199 N 38-8-19 E  39.89
200 N 59-9-25 W  62.76
201 N 59-24-44 W 57.97
202 N 59-25-15 W 59.89
203 N 59-2-48 W  59.36
204 N 58-46-5 W  1.15
205 N 60-30-54 W 173.39
206 N 62-13-18 W 213.85
207 N 62-49-54 W 99.12
208 N 64-28-25 W 238.49
209 N 10-15-6 E  154.87
210 N 64-44-54 E 201.60
211 N 13-2-13 E  182.22
212 N 34-0-37 E  41.34
213 N 20-42-59 W 87.63
214 N 40-0-58 E  57.32
215 N 0-28-34 E  22.56
216 N 31-16-50 E 173.58
217 N 19-43-34 E 253.62
218 N 19-58-59 E 9.27
219 S 74-13-4 E  102.41
220 S 74-13-5 E  10.03
221 S 71-43-51 E 142.35
222 S 71-44-0 E  123.33
223 S 71-31-7 E  16.27
224 S 70-59-34 E 66.62
225 S 70-59-11 E 103.40
226 S 70-59-27 E 102.88
227 S 70-59-38 E 103.41
228 S 70-59-20 E 135.97
229 S 70-59-27 E 142.03
230 S 7-36-5 W   162.53
231 S 76-14-3 E  624.81
232 S 2-54-47 E  177.30
Page 5
233 N 76-18-10 W 138.39
234 S 19-37-13 W 258.94
235 S 54-47-1 W  244.47
236 N 70-25-19 W 120.86
237 N 70-25-45 W 26.09
238 N 71-26-2 W  279.00
239 S 18-8-34 W  97.55
240 N 18-9-10 E  2.01
241 S 18-8-52 W  316.18
242 S 54-31-13 E 101.85
243 N 54-53-0 E  100.00
244 S 48-47-8 E  1548.41
245 N 55-12-34 E 231.89
246 N 55-12-6 E  69.16
247 S 6-57-19 E  111.66
248 S 19-34-22 E 276.21
249 S 19-5-10 E  175.34
250 S 70-32-47 W 189.38
251 S 37-55-17 E 214.93
252 N 54-29-52 E 126.99
253 S 36-48-13 E 101.01
254 S 55-2-55 W  125.08
255 S 35-43-35 E 30.17
256 S 36-50-14 E 197.23
257 S 35-21-43 E 114.17
258 S 34-7-23 E  109.69
259 N 47-45-51 E 137.61
260 N 28-12-50 W 86.94
261 N 30-44-41 W 21.03
262 N 55-35-24 E 225.77
263 N 11-32-29 W 10.62
264 S 86-58-7 E  16.74
265 S 86-52-1 E  221.47
266 S 87-11-7 E  31.82
267 S 17-47-17 E 555.72
268 S 17-55-23 E 154.52
269 S 17-58-17 E 6.92
270 S 17-55-23 E 171.48
271 S 17-55-56 E 27.40
272 S 66-8-54 W  29.52
273 S 17-1-41 E  49.91
274 S 17-1-50 E  50.54
275 S 17-3-14 E  25.15
276 S 68-54-29 W 161.08
277 S 67-54-9 W  263.56
278 S 21-31-8 E  224.77
279 N 68-13-11 E 198.20
Page 6
280 S 18-52-34 E 50.07
281 S 68-50-50 W 10.42
282 S 53-49-50 E 132.23
283 N 36-44-24 E 48.65
284 N 36-44-44 E 125.64
285 N 36-44-34 E 37.59
286 N 36-23-58 E 214.46
287 N 36-15-33 E 192.52
288 S 49-41-9 E  100.08
289 S 71-8-14 E  326.42
290 S 27-23-42 W 107.08
291 S 27-23-22 W 82.24
292 S 27-24-22 W 39.99
293 S 76-10-46 E 123.49
294 S 76-11-35 E 104.10
295 S 24-12-51 W 257.68
296 S 61-27-34 E 124.73
297 S 23-29-35 W 175.07
298 S 5-25-28 E  72.40
299 S 26-25-3 W  117.63
300 S 61-7-27 E  50.60
301 S 62-28-29 E 30.86
302 S 63-24-27 E 19.36
303 S 60-16-57 E 59.30
304 S 27-31-37 W 66.04
305 S 86-43-16 E 106.00
306 S 62-28-27 E 62.50
307 S 63-17-18 E 90.96
308 S 24-41-0 W  294.54
309 N 86-14-22 W 145.32
310 N 71-37-20 W 32.94
311 S 1-11-44 W  141.79
312 S 6-57-43 W  34.03
313 S 4-27-28 W  133.08
314 S 78-46-53 E 129.62
315 S 18-40-12 W 132.44
316 S 18-25-7 W  263.88
317 S 18-55-19 E 139.54
318 S 71-23-18 E 165.44
319 S 70-24-53 E 163.11
320 S 19-16-30 W 33.92
321 S 20-44-53 W 32.73
322 S 18-7-41 W  30.13
323 S 19-29-22 W 30.78
324 S 18-41-54 W 33.70
325 S 18-10-23 W 31.70
326 S 19-22-58 W 30.67
Page 7
327 N 69-59-34 W 92.92
328 N 69-58-58 W 65.85
329 S 65-21-20 W 60.88
330 N 18-12-18 W 118.23
331 S 70-8-41 W  41.07
332 S 69-22-27 W 127.18
333 S 68-47-56 W 158.57
334 S 21-37-8 E  119.68
335 S 67-54-24 W 80.12
336 N 22-15-27 W 49.80
337 S 68-26-16 W 127.35
338 S 22-13-17 E 50.13
339 S 68-24-8 W  65.31
340 S 68-9-0 W   63.81
341 S 68-38-41 W 80.50
342 S 68-7-45 W  121.25
343 S 68-8-50 W  122.66
344 S 68-24-46 W 80.75
345 S 68-23-25 W 122.24
 
to the place and point of beginning as shown on the map attached hereto as
Attachment B and on file with the Clerk of the City of Southport. There is
hereby excepted, however, from the above description those certain areas
already annexed to the City of Southport by annexation ordinances recorded in
Book 1393 Page 965, Book 1729 Page 1361, Book 1805 Page 122, Book 1836 Page
471, Book 1865 Page 819, Book 1930 Page 716 and Book 2532 Page 970 of the
Brunswick County Registry.
b)    Consideration of Memorandum of Agreement with NCDOT
Mr. Thornton presented an Agreement for consideration that provides the City
with an option for removal of debris from secondary roads during a State of
Disaster or Imminent Threat of disaster and/or a State of Emergency declared
pursuant to Chapters 14 and 166A of the NCGS. Alderman Boguskie moved to
approve the Agreement, seconded by Alderman Fisher. Vote carried. (Copy of
Agreement on file in the office of the City Clerk)
c)    Consideration of Establishment of Speed Limit within the Landing
Subdivision
Mr. Thornton advised the Board of a request from residents in the Landing
asking the City to establish a speed limit and place signs in the Landing
Subdivision. All City streets are 35 mph unless the Board takes action to
designate speed limits of 20-25 mph. Chief Dove performed a study, and most
subdivisions have 20-25 mph speed limits. If approved by the Board, staff will
see to the placement of the signs. Alderman Potter motioned to designate a 20
mph speed limit in the Landing, seconded by Alderman Frink, vote unanimous.
d)    Consideration of Annual Agreement for City Utility Meters
Alderman Fisher motioned to renew the contract for the reading of City Utility
Meters in the amount of $43,500 for the first year increasing by 4% each
optional year, seconded by Alderman Brown. Vote carried. (Copy of Agreement on
file in office of City Clerk)
e)    Budget Amendments
Alderman Fisher motioned, seconded by Alderman Frink to approve budget
amendments 1, 2, and 3. Vote carried.
Budget Amendment # 1
Fiscal Year 2008-2009
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session September 11, 2008, that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for revenues received from Insurance Recovery and to
adjust line items in the Rescue Department Budget for equipment.
General Fund
                               Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section I
A.   Revenues Anticipated
      Insurance Recovery 848.96           4,583,823.96
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
      Rescue Department
         R/M Vehicles 848.96
         Department Su(3560)
         Equipment    3560
                                                4,583,823.96
 
ADOPTED this the 11th day of September, 2008
/s/ Mayor Sandra P Spencer 
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk to the Board of Aldermen
Budget Amendment # 2
Fiscal Year 2008-2009
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session September 11, 2008, that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted to adjust line items Insurance & Bonding in several
department that were underestimated during the budget process. There will be no
change in the actual budget with this amendment.
General Fund
                               Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section I
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
      Insurance & Bonding
      Administration     (2700)
      Code Enforcement   700
      Rescue Department  1000
      Tourism            1000
                                                4,583,823.96
 
ADOPTED this the 11th day of September, 2008
/s/ Mayor Sandra P Spencer 
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk to the Board of Aldermen
Budget Amendment # 3
Fiscal Year 2008-2009
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session September 11, 2008, that the following Budget
Amendment be move line items on Ft. Johnston from Tourism Department to Parks &
Recreations Department. There will be no change in the actual budget with this
amendment.
General Fund
                                     Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section I
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
      Tourism
         R/M Fort Johnston  (7500)
         Dept. Supplies Ft. (4000)on
         Telephone- Ft. John(1500)
         Utilities Ft. Johns(5500)
         Parks & Recreation
         R/M Fort Johnston  7500
         Dept. Supplies Ft. 4000ston
         Telephone- Ft. John1500
         Utilities Ft. Johns5500
                                                      4,583,823.96
 
ADOPTED this the 11th day of September, 2008
/s/ Mayor Sandra P Spencer 
Attest
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk to the Board of Aldermen
(f)   Tax Release
Alderman Fisher motioned to approve the following tax release, seconded by
Alderman Frink, motion carried.
C.B. Caroon 2007 tax $206.01 + 9.78 (int.) = $215.79 Value, $137,340. Reason
for release is due to an adjustment by the Property Tax Commission.
(g)   Paul Swenson
Mr. Swenson of 207 E. Brown Street told the Board that the Provision Company
has been in business for 15 years, and in the past two years, they have had
storm water runoff on two occasions in their business. It is his contention
that development activities on Bay Street (previously Charlie Perry's and Port
Charlie Restaurant) where fill was deposited raising the level of the road to
five inches is causing the water to run down Bay Street into their place of
business. Prior to this, the runoff ran into the river and marsh. He asked the
City to consider storm water issues before the property is fully developed and
compound problems.
Mr. Swenson stated when Cape Fear Development built the residential building
next to Provision, Yacht Basin Drive was raised. The Developer told him that
the elevation had not been raised. He explained that he owns the slip adjacent
to the property and hired a surveyor to shoot the elevation. It was raised
approximately 10 inches and they now have a drop off onto their property that
was level. He consulted with the Developer and was assured the situation would
be addressed. Since this time, he hired an Attorney who sent a letter to the
Developer, but to no avail. Mr. Swenson spoke with the City Building Inspector
and inquired whether he could hire a contractor to bring the level of the road
back to the original elevation. Mr. Strickland told him that he would have to
address this matter to City Council. Mr. Swenson asked the Board to consider
letting them bring Yacht Basin Drive back to its previous level at his expense.
Alderman Adams stated the Board did not authorize the Developer to perform work
on City right of way. Mr. Strickland stated the former Manager and Public
Services Director authorized the work.
Alderman Potter questioned if the Developer elevated the road that causes storm
water runoff onto private property, should they be held responsible. Attorney
Isenberg stated it depends on whether or not the portion raised is City right
of way, because City property does not run the entire length of the road. City
Attorney Isenberg stated if the City permitted, the Developer to do the work,
the City may be responsible for some of the work.
The Board agreed with recommendation of Alderman Potter to hire a surveyor to
determine where the City right of way begins and ends including the elevation
of the property. It was Board consensus to authorize the City Manager to hire a
surveyor.
h)   Proclamation proclaiming the week of September 17-23 as Constitution Week
Alderman Fisher motioned to approve the resolution seconded by Alderman Brown,
vote carried.
NORTH CAROLINA SOCIETY DAUGHTERS OF THE AMERICAN REVOLUTION
BRUNSWICK COUNTY
CHAPTER
Bonnie K. Beemer, Chair
DAR Constitution Week
PROCLAMATION
CONSTITUTION WEEK
September 17 – 23, 2008
WHEREAS, It is the privilege and duty of the American people to commemorate the
two hundred twenty first anniversary of the drafting of the Constitution of the
United States of America with appropriate ceremonies and activities; and
WHEREAS, Public Law 915 guarantees the issuing of a proclamation each year by
the President of the United States of America designating September 17-23 as
Constitution Week.
NOW, THEREFORE, I Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor of the City of Southport, North
Carolina do hereby proclaim the week of September 17-23, 2008 as
CONSTITUTION WEEK
And urge all citizens to study the Constitution, and reflect on the privilege
of being an American with all the rights and responsibilities which that
privilege involves.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and cause the seal of the City
of Southport, North Carolina to be affixed this the 11th day of September of
the year of our Lord two thousand eight.
/s/ Sandra. P. Spencer, Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
Clerk
X.
City Manager Comments
·   City Manager thanked employees and County for work during hurricane Hanna.
Recovery is in process, staff met with FEMA to determine damage assessment.
·   Dedication of Stede Bonnet Historical Marker scheduled Friday, September
26, 2008
·   Hired Amy Nelson, City Planner will begin work October 1, 2008.
XI.
Other Business
Mr. Thornton presented notification of a Fire Department grant received under
the Department of Homeland Security in the amount of $40,900.00 for Board
acceptance. Federal share is $38,855.00 and the local share is $2,045.00.
Monies will be used to update breathing apparatus. Alderman Fisher motioned to
accept the grant, seconded by Alderman Brown, vote carried.
Mr. Thornton told the Board that the Knights of Columbus in conjunction with
Wal-Mart would be performing a community service project by landscaping around
City Hall. The labor is free; however, the City will need to purchase
materials. In response to questions, Mr. Thornton stated an underground
irrigation system would be installed as part of the master plan.
Peggy McDonald, Director of Downtown Southport stated the DSI Board is glad to
collaborate with the City to select and purchase Christmas decorations for the
City. She explained that DSI proposed to work with the City and downtown
businesses to sponsor individual decorations, which would supplement the
budget, provide community spirit, beautify the City and bring more people
downtown. She asked that an Alderman be appointed to work with DSI. Council
members Boguskie and Frink volunteered.
XII.
Public Comments
Mr. and Mrs. Bob Racy of the Wounded Warrior Project invited the Board and
public to attend the Carolina Challenge October 21-25, 2008. The wounded
warriors will be arriving in the City the morning of October 24th and
congregate at Water Front Park. He asked the Mayor to proclaim October 24th as
Wounded Warrior Soldier Ride Day. (Proclamation will be presented at the
October meeting)
Mr. Conrad Naef, 6092 Sullivan's Ridge Road, stated it is his belief that the
round about discussed by DOT representatives may create problems the City
currently do not have near Harbor Oaks and Ferry Road intersection. Mr. Naef
requested additional facts from DOT representatives.
Mr. John Spaulding, 5124 Fernwood Drive voiced concern about the roundabout and
the type proposed. He inquired about bike paths and rights of ways for
pedestrians. He stated if the roundabout is installed, it will be hard to
convert back, and asked the City to get more involved.
Mr. Rhode Messick, member of the Steering Committee for No Port Southport,
extended an invitation to the Board and public to attend the September 30th,
meeting at the Community Building.
XIII.
Board Comments
Alderman Boguskie stated the Board considered rezoning Southport Crossing in
February 2008. In reviewing the CAMA Core Land Use Plan, the property does not
meet the zoning shown on the map on Page 54. He believes that this matter
should be reconsidered.
Alderman Fisher presented the following.
·   Thanked Heather Hemphill, Director of Parks and Recreation for compiling
and submitting the report to SHIPO on the use of Fort Johnston.
·   Requested the Board send a resolution to the County Commissioners asking
that a Task Force be formed with municipalities to review and offer suggestions
for improving the tax system. (Copy of former resolutions on file)
·   Requested the City send a letter to the Corp of Engineers requesting a
study be performed of erosion in the Cape Fear River; and to develop a joint
plan with the City to lessen erosion due to traffic, storms and deepening of
the river. He asked that a letter be sent to the Cape Fear Pilots Association
and Bald Head asking that the ships and ferry transit Southport at a speed that
is safe, but will lessen riverbank erosion.    
·   A meeting will be held on September 15 with a representative from
Congressman McIntyre's staff at the Waterfront Park seeking a grant to solar
light the park and pier.
·   Requested the Board meet to conclude the Board Retreat, which was recessed
on February 23, 2008. City Manager Thornton will schedule the meeting.
Council agreed by consensus that Alderman Fisher will serve as the voting
delegate for the NCLM Conference in October.
XIV.
Adjournment
Alderman Boguskie motioned to adjourn, seconded by Alderman Frink, vote
carried.
________________________________
Mayor Sandra P. Spencer
_______________________________
Regina W. Alexander, MMC-Clerk
SEPTEMBER 26, 2008
SPECIAL MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
SEPTEMBER 26, 2008 9:00 A.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
            Aldermen Nelson Adams, Donnie Potter, Jim Brown, Ed Boguskie
            Jwantana Frink and Paul Fisher
ABSENT:         Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
STAFF:         M. Alan Thornton, City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander, City Clerk
            Dale Holland, Consulting Planner
I.
Mayor Spencer called the meeting to order at 9:00 a.m.
II.
Alderman Brown gave the invocation.
III.
Annexation Plan – Mr. Dale Holland, Consulting Planner
Mr. Holland presented the annexation report for Board approval. This would
authorize him to move forward with the next step in the process. He explained
that the purpose of the public informational meeting is to discuss the
financial implication of the annexation to the residents and the City.
Mayor Spencer stated the report included Stevens Park but those facilities no
longer exist. However, the City has acquired seven (7) acres that will include
public recreation amenities. It was also noted that no reference was made to
Fort Johnston and the Community Building. Mayor Spencer stated that the City
owns the building where the Art Gallery is housed, but do not own the artwork.
Mr. Holland explained that the references were placed in the report because
they were included in the City's Land Use Plan. Mayor Spencer also questioned
the calculations of water cost on page 10. Mr. Holland stated that he would
review the calculations and correct the figures, and the report would be
revised with changes.
Alderman Fisher questioned if there is a discrepancy in the right to service
sewer, water and electricity. Mr. Holland stated the services would remain the
same, and he perceives no discrepancy.
Mr. Holland stated after questions from Alderman Fisher, that the annexed area
did not go any farther down Jabbertown than what was required to satisfy the
definition of an urban area. Mayor asked about the Yaupon Drive area. Mr.
Holland stated the original charge by the Board was to look at the area along
North Howe, and explained that it would be difficult to connect these areas to
the current resolution of intent.
Alderman Fisher stated that this is the first involuntary annexation imposed by
the City. He questioned if residents are annexed, would they be required to
connect to City sewer. If not, he believes that it should be required through
assessment. Mr. Holland stated the Sewer Policy adopted in 1988 applies to
areas within the corporate limits, which is a policy decision by the Board.
Alderman Adams reiterated his objection to annexing the eleven parcels on
Jabbertown Road.
No further discussion, motion by Alderman Brown, seconded by Alderman Potter to
approve the annexation report with changes referenced by Mayor Spencer. The
vote of approval was 5 ayes, Alderman Brown, Potter, Frink, Boguskie and
Fisher. 1 no, Alderman Adams. (Report on file in the office of the City Clerk)
Public information meeting scheduled October 29, 2008 at 1:00pm, Aldermen
Chambers.
IV.
Comprehensive Plan and CAMA Core Land Use Plan
City Manager Thornton presented a recommendation from the Planning Board dated
January 17, 2008 concerning the Land Use and Comprehensive Plans. The
recommendation discussed the similarities between the Plans and recommended
that the CAMA Land Use Plan be used as the Comprehensive Plan. It was stated
that the Land Use Plan is more comprehensive, it contains guidelines charting
growth, and requires frequent updates by the State.
Mr. Holland concurred that the present Land Use Plan is more comprehensive. He
stated the City of Southport developed its own Land Use Plan instead of being
under Brunswick County. He explained that the City's current CAMA Land Use Plan
has been certified by the State of North Carolina, and submitted to the Federal
Government for certification.
Mr. Thornton explained having one Comprehensive Plan would simplify matters for
staff and developers.
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Brown, to schedule a Public
Hearing to receive comments on repealing the Comprehensive Plan and to adopt
the CAMA Land Use Plan, which will serve as the City's Comprehensive Plan. The
vote of approval was unanimous. (No date set for the Hearing)
V.
Adjournment – 10:28 pm
Alderman Potter moved to adjourn, seconded by Alderman Brown, vote carried.
________________________________
Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
______________________________
Regina W. Alexander, MMC- Clerk
OCTOBER 9, 2008
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
OCTOBER 9, 2008   7:30 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
            Aldermen Nelson E. Adams, Donnie Potter,
            Richard "Ed" Boguskie, Jwantana Frink, James Brown and Paul D.
Fisher
ABSENT:         None
STAFF:         Alan Thornton, City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander, MMC
            Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
            Patty Miller, Finance Officer
            Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
            Randy Jones, Director of Tourism
            Heather Hemphill, Director of Parks and Recreation
            Lt. Danny Laughren, Police Department
            Ralph Cardwell, Interim Director of Public Utilities
            Charles Drew, Code Enforcer
            Greg Cumbee, Fire Chief
I.
Call to Order – 7:30 p.m.
Mayor Spencer called the meeting to order at 7:30 p.m.
II.
Invocation
Mayor Pro Tem Brown delivered the invocation.
III.
Approval of Minutes
Alderman Brown motioned, seconded by Alderman Fisher to approve the regular
meeting minutes with one spelling correction noted by Alderman Boguskie. Vote
unanimous.
   Correction:  "Dominican changed to Dominion"
IV.
Approval of Agenda
Alderman Potter motioned to approve the agenda, seconded by Alderman Brown.
Vote unanimous.
V.
Committee Reports
Alderman Boguskie reported that he met with the DSI Committee and the Christmas
lights have been ordered.
VI.
Departmental Reports
Reports included in agenda packet.
VII.
Public Presentation
a)    Southport Fire Department
Greg Cumbee, Chief of the Fire Department, Robert Howard, Chairman of the Fire
Station Planning Committee and Scott Garner, Architect, gave a presentation on
the proposed fire station and updated the Board on plans including financing.
Chief Cumbee gave historical data on the process that began in 2002, with a
recommendation from the State on the need to locate a fire station further
north. The current station was built in 1958-59 and does not have sufficient
space to accommodate the fire trucks, firefighters, or house equipment with
sufficient apparatus.
Mr. Howard reiterated that the present facility has outlived its functional
life. Handouts were presented showing two options with projected costs, i.e. a
potential capital funding plan by increasing tax rate by 3.8 or pay one-half
from general fund, borrow $1.3 million and the firefighters will raise one
million dollars from the community. (Information on file in the Office of the
City Clerk)
Mr. Scott Garner, Project Architect, stated the new building is energy
efficient and designed for future needs. It is their belief that eventually the
volunteer department will transition to full time paid firefighters and this
station will be equipped to accommodate the growth. An emergency operations
center is included in the plans.
Alderman Potter thanked the firefighters for their work and willingness to
raise monies to help fund the new station. He also noted that the Southport
Fire Department currently holds an ISO rating of four (4) which can be a factor
in homeowners' insurance premiums. He stated if the department was to lose this
rating, the cost of insurance could possibly exceed the difference in tax
dollars to the City.
Alderman Fisher motioned, seconded by Alderman Potter to:
·   Acknowledge receipt of and accept the report,
·   Confirm authorization previously granted to the Committee to carry out
their activities associated with the New Fire Station, and
·   That authorization to continue project implementation through the
construction
   drawing phase be hereby authorized, and
·   That the Committee is authorized to submit the project plans and
specifications to the planning, zoning and other agencies and/or officials
having regulatory
   jurisdiction over the project for their review and approval, and
·   That the City Manager encourage City staff to assist and help
   facilitate the Committee's efforts in preparing the project for permitting,
and
·   Continue to develop the programs to finance the new fire station and
present a formal progress report for financing no later than the December 8,
2008
Board meeting.
The vote of approval was unanimous.
Mayor Spencer and Board members commended firefighters for their service to the
City.
b)    Southport-Oak Island Chamber of Commerce Report on the Fourth of July
Festival
Mr. Ben Styers, Chairman 2007-2008 Fourth of July Festival reported that an
estimated 35,000 people attended the festivities over a three-day period,
thereby promoting the City and contributing money to the economy; which also
brings name recognition and advertising for the City. He stated that a study
performed by the Brunswick County Tourism Development Authority found that
people visiting spent an average of $209 per day, which included housing. Each
dollar spent by the City, the festival brings back $839 into the local economy.
He concluded by thanking the City, municipal leaders and staff for its work and
contributions.
VIII.
Public Hearings
a)   Brunswick County Comprehensive Transportation Plan – Marc Pages, Planner
b)   Closing of a Public Alley
Alderman Boguskie motioned, seconded by Alderman Frink to enter Public Hearing
(s) to receive comments on the Brunswick County Comprehensive Plan and Closing
of a Public Alley. Vote unanimous.
Mr. Marc Pages, Land Planner- Brunswick County Planning Department, and
representing NC DOT stated the Brunswick County Comprehensive Transportation
Plan was initiated in February 2006. The Project Steering Committee and
municipal officials worked together to develop the CTP that encompasses multi-
modal transportation needs throughout the County. The Plan was made available
to the public in October 2007, and again in July 2008. The Plan is being
presented for consideration and adoption by the Board of Aldermen. Upon local
and state adoption, the plan will supersede the existing CTP and Thoroughfare
Plans for the area and a comprehensive report will be published documenting the
development of the plan.
Alderman Fisher stated that it has been requested that a road be built from
East Leonard and East Moore Streets to exit onto Highway 87. This will give
Southport another exit out of town due to the loss of River Road. Mr. Pages
stated it was discussed, but not included due to the uncertainty of plans for
the International Port. Alderman Fisher asked that this be included in the CTP.
Alderman Boguskie questioned the widening of Highway 17 to East Moore and the
number of lanes included. Mr. Pages stated three lanes.
No further comments, Mayor Spencer asked for public comments on closing the
public alley.
Attorney Isenberg explained that this alley runs from the northern line of 10th
street through block 7A, running parallel to Lord and Howe and beside the
proposed site of the new fire department. Attorney Isenberg stated that the
Board needs to determine that it is not contrary to the public interests, and
that no person owning property near the alley would be deprived of egress and
ingress.
There were no comments from the public.
Alderman Potter motioned to close the Public Hearings, seconded by Alderman
Brown. Vote unanimous.
IX.
New Business
a)    Consideration of Brunswick County's Comprehensive Transportation Plan
Alderman Adams asked that consideration of a stop light be installed at 12th
street, and asked the City Manager to pursue this matter.
Alderman Brown motioned to approve the County's Transportation Plan and adopt
the following resolution, seconded by Alderman Boguskie. Discussion: Alderman
Fisher stated he would not vote on the Plan unless the connection is added from
Leonard to Moore to exit onto Highway 87, and it will not be considered unless
included in the Plan.
Mr. Pages stated that he would communicate to DOT that the City request the
connection from Leonard to Moore be included in the Plan.
The votes of approval were 5 ayes, Aldermen Brown, Boguskie, Potter, and Frink.
1 no, Aldermen Fisher.  
Resolution
Adopting a Comprehensive Transportation Plan For Brunswick County, North
Carolina
WHEREAS,  Brunswick County, the Municipalities of Brunswick County, and the
Transportation Planning Branch, North Carolina Department of Transportation
actively worked to develop a comprehensive transportation plan for Brunswick
County; and
WHEREAS, the County, the Municipalities and the Department of Transportation
are directed by North Carolina General Statutes 136-66.2 to reach agreement for
a transportation system that will serve present and anticipated volumes of
traffic in and around the County; and
WHEREAS, it is recognized that the proper movement of traffic within and
through Brunswick County is a highly desirable element of the comprehensive
plan for the orderly growth and development of the County; and
WHEREAS, after full study of the Plan, and following a Public Hearing on
October 9, 2008, the Southport Board of Aldermen believes it to be in its best
interest to adopt a plan pursuant to General Statutes 136-66.2;
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Brunswick County Comprehensive
Transportation Plan, as shown on a map dated November 5, 2007, be approved and
adopted as a guide in the development of the transportation system in Brunswick
County and the same is hereby recommended to the North Carolina Department of
Transportation for its subsequent adoption by the Southport Board of Aldermen.
ADOPTED, this the 9th day of October 2008.
/s/ Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
b)   Consideration of Closing Public Alley – Northern Line of 10th Street
Alderman Fisher motioned, seconded by Alderman Brown to adopt the Order closing
the public alley from the northern line of 10th street through block 7A,
running parallel to Lord and Howe Streets beside the proposed site of the new
fire department.
Vote unanimous.
STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA
ORDER
BRUNSWICK COUNTY
THAT WHEREAS, G. S. 160A-299 requires that when a city proposes to permanently
close any street or public alley that the Board of Aldermen first adopt a
resolution declaring its intent to close said street or alley and calling for a
public hearing on the question; and
WHEREAS, G. S. 160A-299 further requires that the resolution to close the
street or alley be published once a week for four successive weeks prior to the
date of said hearing, that a copy thereof be sent by registered or certified
mail to all owners of property adjoining the portion of the street or alley to
be closed as shown on the county tax records, and that notice of the closing
and public hearing be prominently posted in at least two places along the
street or alley to be closed; and
WHEREAS, on September 11, 2008, the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport
passed a resolution proposing to close the following described public alley,
and also calling for a public hearing on said question:
Being that certain public alley which runs from the northern line of 10th
Street in a northerly direction to its terminus in Block 7A of the Smith &
Weeks Addition to the City of Southport as shown on a map recorded in the Book
of Division of
Lands and Dowers at Page 10 of the Brunswick County Registry, said alley
running parallel with Howe Street and Lord Street and between the two streets;
and
WHEREAS, the City of Southport has complied with all requirements of G. S.
160A-299, including the holding of the public hearing and the giving of all
required notice; and
WHEREAS, no portion of the street or alley to be closed is under the authority
or control of the Board of Transportation; and
WHEREAS, adjoining property owners and other persons were heard on the question
of whether or not the closing would be detrimental to the public interest or
the property rights of any individual; and
WHEREAS, it appears to the satisfaction of the Board of Aldermen after the
hearing that the closing of this public alley is not contrary to the public
interest and that no individual owning property in the vicinity of the alley or
in the subdivision in which it is located would be deprived of reasonable means
of ingress and egress to their property and that said alley described above
should be closed;
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED pursuant to G. S. 160A-299 as follows:
1.   That the following described public alley in the City of Southport is
hereby closed:
Being that certain public alley which runs from the northern line of 10th
Street in a northerly direction to its terminus in Block 7A of the Smith &
Weeks Addition to the City of Southport as shown on a map recorded in the Book
of Division of Lands and Dowers at Page 10 of the Brunswick County Registry,
said alley running parallel with Howe Street and Lord Street and between the
two streets.
2.   That the City of Southport hereby reserves and retains all right, title
and interest in the utility improvements and easements, if any, located within
said alley as described above.
This the 9th day of October, 2008.
CITY OF SOUTHPORT
BY:
/s/ Sandra P. Spencer
Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
Clerk
c)   Consideration of Proposed City of Southport Identity Theft Prevention
Program
City Manager Thornton explained to the Board that a mandate has come down from
the federal government for public entities to have in place by November 1,
2008, a "Red Flag" policy to protect personal information from identity theft.
Motion made by Alderman Brown, seconded by Alderman Fisher to adopt the
Identity Theft Prevention Policy. Vote unanimous.
Alderman Fisher asked that a cost analysis be provided during the next budget
cycle of the cost to implement this program.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-52.jpg]
 
CITY OF SOUTHPORT
IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION POLICY
Subject:   New Identity Theft Prevention Program for the City of Southport
Purpose:    The creation and implementation of an Identity Theft Prevention
Program at the City of Southport that will identify, detect, mitigate, and
update Red Flags that signal the possibility of identity theft in connection
with the opening of a covered account or any existing covered account.
Effective Date: October 9, 2008
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PART 1    DEFINITIONS   8
PART 2   IDENTIFICATION OF RELEVANT RED FLAGS   8
PART 3   DETECTION, PREVENTION AND MITIGATION   10
PART 4   PROGRAM UPDATES   11
PART 5    ADDITIONAL LEGAL REQUIREMENTS (IF NECESSARY)   11
PART 6    ADMINISTRATION   12
PART 7    POLICY APPROVAL   13
PART 1
DEFINITIONS
1.   For purposes of this Policy, the term "Covered Account" means an account
that the City of Southport offers or maintains, primarily for personal, family
or household purposes, that involves or is designed to permit multiple payments
or transactions and any other account that the City of Southport offers or
maintains for which there is a reasonably foreseeable risk to customers or the
safety and soundness of the City of Southport from identity theft, including
financial, operational, compliance, reputation, or litigation risks.
2.   For purposes of this Policy, the term "Identity Theft" means a fraud
committed or attempted using the identifying information of another person
without authority.
3.   For purposes of this Policy, the term "Red Flag" means a pattern,
practice, or specific activity that indicates the possible existence of
identity theft. Part 2 provides a specific description of which Red Flags are
applicable to this policy.
PART 2
IDENTIFICATION OF RELEVANT RED FLAGS
After careful examination of our accounts, including the methods by which we
open access and past experience with identity theft, the following events/
occurrences reasonably indicate the potential for identity theft and should be
considered "Red Flags" for purposes of this policy:
A.   Alerts, notifications, or other warnings received from consumer reporting
agencies or service providers, such as fraud detections services. For the
purposes of this policy the City of Southport will be utilizing the ONLINE
Utility Exchange as their service provider to identify the “Red Flags” listed
below:
1.   A fraud or active duty alert is included with a consumer report.
2.   A consumer-reporting agency provides a notice of credit freeze in response
to a request for a consumer report.
3.   A consumer-reporting agency provides a notice of address discrepancy (See
Part 5).
4.   A consumer report indicates a pattern of activity that is inconsistent
with the history and usual pattern of activity of an applicant or customer,
such as:
a.   A recent and significant increase in the volume of inquiries;
b.   An unusual number of recently established credit relationships;
c.   A material change in the use of credit, especially with respect to
recently established credit relationships; or
d.   An account that was closed for cause or identified for abuse of account
privileges by a financial institution or creditor.
B.   The presentation of suspicious documents, such as:
5.   Documents provided for identification appear to have been altered or
forged.
6.   The photograph or physical description on the identification is not
consistent with the appearance of the applicant or customer presenting the
identification.
7.   Other information on the identification is not consistent with information
provided by the person opening a new covered account or customer presenting the
identification.
8.   Other information on the identification is not consistent with readily
accessible information that is on file with the financial institution or
creditor, such as a signature card or a recent check.
9.   An application appears to have been altered or forged, or gives the
appearance of having been destroyed and reassembled.
C.   The presentation of suspicious personal identifying information, such as a
suspicious address changes:
10.   Personal identifying information provided is inconsistent when compared
against external information sources used by the City of Southport. For
example: a. The address does not match any address in the consumer report; or
b. The Social Security Number (SSN) has not been issued, or is listed on the
Social Security Administration's Death Master File.
11.   Personal identifying information provided by the customer is not
consistent with other personal identifying information provided by the
customer. For example, there is a lack of correlation between the SSN range and
date of birth.
12.   Personal identifying information provided is associated with known
fraudulent activity as indicated by internal or third party sources used by the
City of Southport. For example:
a.   The address on an application is the same as the address provided on a
fraudulent application; or
b.   The phone number on an application is the same as the number provided on a
fraudulent application.
13.   Personal identifying information provided is of a type commonly
associated with fraudulent activity as indicated by internal or third party
sources used by the financial institution or creditor. For example:
a.   The address on an application is fictitious, a mail drop, or a prison; or
b.   The phone number is invalid, or is associated with a pager or answering
service.
14.   The SSN provided is the same as that submitted by other persons opening
an account or other customers.
15.   The address or telephone number provided is the same as or similar to the
account number or telephone number submitted by an unusually large number of
other persons opening accounts or other customers.
16.   The person opening the covered account or the customer fails to provide
all required personal identifying information on an application or in response
to notification that the application is incomplete.
17.   Personal identifying information provided is not consistent with personal
identifying information that is on file with the City of Southport.
18.   If the City of Southport uses challenge questions, the person opening the
covered account or the customer cannot provide authenticating information
beyond that which generally would be available from a wallet or consumer
report.
D.   The unusual use of, or other suspicious activity related to, a covered
account:
19.   Shortly following the notice of a change of address for a covered
account, the City of Southport receives a request for a new, additional, or
replacement card or a cell phone, or for the addition of authorized users on
the account.
20.   A new revolving credit account is used in a manner commonly associated
with known patterns of fraud patterns. For example:
a.   The majority of available credit is used for cash advances or merchandise
that is easily convertible to cash (e.g., electronics equipment or jewelry); or
b.   The customer fails to make the first payment or makes an initial payment
but no subsequent payments.
21.   A covered account is used in a manner that is not consistent with
established patterns of activity on the account. There is, for example:
a.   Nonpayment when there is no history of late or missed payments;
b.   A material increase in the use of available credit;
c.   A material change in purchasing or spending patterns;
d.   A material change in electronic fund transfer patterns in connection with
a deposit account; or
e.   A material change in telephone call patterns in connection with a cellular
phone account.
22.   A covered account that has been inactive for a reasonably lengthy period
of time is used (taking into consideration the type of account, the expected
pattern of usage and other relevant factors).
23.   Mail sent to the customer is returned repeatedly as undeliverable
although transactions continue to be conducted in connection with the
customer's covered account.
24.   The City of Southport is notified that the customer is not receiving
paper account statements.
25.   The City of Southport is notified of unauthorized charges or transactions
in connection with a customer's covered account.
E.   Notice from customers, victims of identity theft, law enforcement
authorities, or other persons regarding possible identity theft in connection
with covered accounts held by the City of Southport:
26.   The City of Southport is notified by a customer, a victim of identity
theft, a law enforcement authority, or any other person that it has opened a
fraudulent account for a person engaged in identity theft.
PART 3
DETECTION, PREVENTION AND MITIGATION
A.   Detection
In an effort to ensure proper detection of any Red Flags, all customers
(consumers) must provide at least the following information/documentation
before any new covered account will be opened:
1.   Full Name;
2.   Date of birth (individual);
3.   Address, (a residential or business street address for an individual; for
an individual who does not have a residential or business street address, an
Army Post Office (APO) or Fleet Post Office (FPO) box number, or the
residential or business street address of next of kin or of another contact
individual; or for a person other than an individual (such as a corporation,
partnership, or trust), a principal place of business, local office, or other
physical location; and;
4.   Identification number, which shall be: (i) For a U.S. person, a taxpayer
identification number; or (ii) For a non-U.S. person, one or more of the
following: a taxpayer identification number; passport number and country of
issuance; alien identification card number; or number and country of issuance
of any other government-issued document evidencing nationality or residence and
bearing a photograph or similar safeguard.
For any account holder of a covered account for which the above information is
not already on file at the City of Southport, the customer will be contacted
within a reasonable period of time after discovering the missing information to
obtain the necessary information.
To assist with detection of Red Flags, the City of Southport will implement the
appropriate computer programs tailored to the City of Southport business needs
to help authenticate customers, monitor transactions, and change of address
requests. The following programs are being used and the City of Southport
continued use thereof is incorporated and made part of this policy:
1.   Logics Utility Software
1001 Navaho Drive, Suite 204
Raleigh NC 27609
B.   Preventing and Mitigating Identity Theft
In the event a Red Flag is detected, the City of Southport is committed to
preventing the occurrence of identity theft and taking the appropriate steps to
mitigate any harm caused thereby. In order to respond appropriately to the
detection of a Red Flag, the City of Southport shall consider any aggravating
circumstance(s) that may heighten the risk of identity theft. After assessing
the degree of risk posed, the City of Southport will respond to the Red Flag in
an appropriate manner, which may include:
1.   Monitoring a covered account for evidence of identity theft;
2.   Contacting the customer;
3.   Changing any passwords, security codes, or other security devices that
permit access to a covered account;
4.   Reopening a covered account with a new account number;
5.   Not opening a new covered account;
6.   Closing an existing covered account;
7.   Not attempting to collect on a covered account or not selling a covered
account to a debt collector;
8.   Notifying law enforcement; or
9.   Determining that no response is warranted under the particular
circumstances.
In an effort to mitigate the damage caused by identity theft, the following
programs/software are being used, and the City of Southport’s continued use
thereof is incorporated and made part of this policy: Logics Utility Software
For the protection of our customers, all service providers hired by the City of
Southport to perform any activity in connection with any covered account must
also take appropriate steps to prevent identity theft. To this end, the City of
Southport will only contract with service providers that have implemented and
follow a similar identity theft prevention policy.
PART 4
PROGRAM UPDATES
The City of Southport is committed to maintaining an Identity Theft Prevention
Policy that is current with the ever-changing crime of identity theft. To that
end, the City of Southport will reassess this policy on a periodic (annual)
basis. In reassessing this policy, the City of Southport will add/delete Red
Flags in Part 2, as necessary, to reflect changes in risks to customers or to
the safety and soundness of the City of Southport from identity theft. The
determination to make changes to this policy will be within the discretion of
the responsible parties, identified in Part 6 of this policy, but after careful
consideration of the following:
1.   The City of Southport's past experience(s) with identity theft;
2.   Changes in methods of identity theft;
3.   Changes in methods to detect, prevent, and mitigate identity theft;
4.   Changes in the types of accounts that the City of Southport offers or
maintains; and
5.   Changes in the business arrangements of the City of Southport, including
mergers, acquisitions, alliances, joint ventures, and service provider
arrangements.
PART 5
ADDITIONAL LEGAL REQUIREMENTS (IF NECESSARY)
A.   Consumer Addresses
1.   Address Confirmation
The City of Southport shall furnish the consumer's address that the City has
reasonably confirmed is accurate to consumer reporting agencies as part of the
information that the City of Southport regularly furnishes for the reporting
period in which the City of Southport establishes a relationship with the
consumer. In an effort to ensure that the City of Southport maintains accurate
address information for its consumers and to ensure the City of Southport
provides accurate address information of our consumers to reporting agencies,
at least one of the following steps must be taken prior to providing the
consumer's address to the consumer reporting agency:
a)   Verify the address on file with the consumer;
b)   Confirm the address being sent to the consumer reporting agency matches
the address the City of Southport has on file for that particular consumer;
c)   Compare the address with information received from any third-party source;
or
d)   Verify by other means that are reasonably available at the time.
2.   Address Discrepancies
Because the City of Southport is a user of consumer reports, at least one of
the following steps must be taken when the City of Southport receives notice
from any consumer reporting agency that a substantial difference exists between
the address for the consumer that the City of Southport provided and the
address (es) in the consumer reporting agency's file for that particular
consumer:
a)   Compare the differing address with the City of Southport 's file, by
either (1) confirming that the address information provided by the City of
Southport to the consumer reporting agency is the same information the City
obtains and uses to verify the consumer's identity in accordance with the
requirements of the Customer Information Program (CIP) rules (31 USC 5318(1)
(31 CPR 103.121»; or (2) comparing the differing addresses with the City of
Southport’s records and files, including applications, change of address
notifications, other customer account records, or retained CIP documentation;
or (3) comparing the differing addresses with information the City may have
received from a third-party source; or
b)   Verify the information in the consumer report provided by the consumer-
reporting agency with the consumer.
B.   Other requirements should be addressed below based on entity type
Examples:
(a)   For financial institutions and creditors that are subject to 31 U.S.C.
5318(g), filing a Suspicious Activity Report in accordance with applicable law
and regulation;
(b)   Implementing any requirements under 15 U.S.C. 1681c-l(h)regarding the
circumstances under which credit may be extended when the financial institution
or creditor detects a fraud or active duty alert;
(c)   Implementing any requirements for furnishers of information to consumer
reporting agencies under 15 U.S.C. 1681s-2, for example, to correct or update
inaccurate or incomplete information, and to not report information that the
furnisher has reasonable cause to believe is inaccurate; and
(d)   Complying with the prohibitions in 15 U.S.C. l681m on the sale, transfer,
and placement for collection of certain debts resulting from identity theft.
DISCLAIMER: There may be additional requirements, such as the examples provided
above.
However, the above examples are not intended to be an exhaustive list.
PART 6
ADMINISTRATION
By signing below, (I/this) individual(s)/committee/board1 of the City of
Southport acknowledge(s) that (I/we) will be responsible for overseeing the
implementation, management, and updating of this new policy and shall have the
following responsibilities:
1.   Assign specific responsibility for the Program's implementation, including
appropriate training for staff;
•   At least annually, the assigned person/staff must report to the individual
(s)/committee/board and provide an update on the policy's effectiveness, any
service provider arrangements, significant incidents involving identity theft
and the City of Southport’s response, and recommendations for ways to improve
the program.
2.   Review reports prepared by staff to ensure that the City of Southport
remains compliant with its legal responsibility to maintain an Identity Theft
Prevention Program; and
3.   Approve material changes to this program as necessary to address changing
identity theft risks.
1 Rules require oversight by the board of aldermen, an appropriate committee of
the board, or a designated employee of management.
PART 7
POLICY APPROVAL
This Identity Theft Prevention Program is hereby made a Policy of the City of
Southport effective October 9, 2008, as authorized by the Board of Aldermen.
/s Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
October 9, 2008
d)   Consideration of Contract Award for Sidewalk Improvements
City Manager Thornton advised that four (4) proposals were received for
sidewalk repair, which is a result of the sidewalk inventory improvement plan
from the Transportation Committee. The repairs will be paid through Powell Bill
funds. George R. Johnson Construction was the low bidder in the amount of
$34,082.94. Alderman Brown motioned to award the contract to George R. Johnson
Construction, seconded by Alderman Boguskie. The vote was 4 ayes, Aldermen
Brown, Potter, Fisher and Boguskie. 2 noes, Aldermen Adams and Frink.
e)    Consideration of Agreement for City rest room facilities and Brunswick
Community College Interagency Program
City Manager Thornton stated due to budget restraints and the economic
situation, he proposes to withdraw the Agreement with Brunswick Community
College Interagency Program and continue in-house cleaning until the economic
situation improves.
Alderman Fisher asked for clarification regarding $35,000 placed in the
Department of Tourism budget that was designated for cleaning the Garrison
House, Visitor's Center and Community Building.
Alderman Fisher recommended the Agreement with Brunswick Community college
Interagency be tabled with consensus of the Board.
f)    EMS Billing Services Agreement
City Manager Thornton advised that the EMS Services Agreement is an update
contract between EMS Management Consultants, Inc. and the Southport Rescue
Squad. The only change is the percentage rate decrease from 10 to 8%. Upon
approval, the contract is valid for five (5) years.
Alderman Brown stated that it was the Board's intent when they entered in to
Agreement with EMS Billing that if the Rescue Squads transports a patient who
is uninsured, EMS Billing will not pursue payment or litigation to collect, and
recommended this policy remain in effect. Alderman Brown motioned to approve
the contract, seconded by Alderman Fisher. Vote unanimous. (Contract on file in
the Clerk's Office, Rescue Department and Finance Office)
g)    Resolution - Solar Energy Project at Waterfront Park
City Manager Thornton stated that Alderman Fisher, staff and BEMC has been
discussing how to "go green" concerning alternative energy. They discussed
establishing something visible while meeting the City's requirement for federal
mandates by utilizing alternative sources of energy. He presented a resolution
of support (no city funds) to send to Tony McEwen of Congressman McIntyre's
office to help facilitate a search for grant funding for solar lights. Being a
public entity, it is his belief that the City needs to demonstrate its
commitment by being innovative.
Alderman Frink motioned to approve the resolution, seconded by Alderman Fisher.
Discussion: Alderman Boguskie asked about the cost difference in solar vs.
regular lights. Mr. Cardwell stated solar lighting cost approximately $8,000
compared to regular lighting at $2500. Alderman Fisher and City Manager
Thornton explained that this is a pilot project and the Congressman's office is
working with energy companies to join with this project. The votes were 5 ayes,
Aldermen Adams, Frink, Potter, Fisher and Brown. 1 no, Alderman Boguskie.
h)   Resolution of Support for the 2008 Wounded Warrior Project Soldier Ride
Carolina Challenge
Alderman Fisher motioned, seconded by Alderman Brown to adopt the resolution in
support of the Wounded Warrior Project Ride-Carolina Challenge. Vote
unanimous. 
RESOLUTION IN SUPPORT OF THE 2008 WOUNDED WARRIOR PROJECT SOLDIER RIDE CAROLINA
CHALLENGE
WHEREAS, the Wounded Warrior Project was formed to raise awareness and enlist
the public's aid for the needs of severely injured service men and women, and
WHEREAS, the Wounded Warrior Project was also formed to help severely injured
service members aid and assist each other, and to provide unique, direct
programs and services to meet their needs, and
WHEREAS, through the generous donations of private citizens, organizations and
corporations, Wounded Warriors are provided opportunities that ease the
transition to civilian life, and
WHEREAS, this support is also complemented by both grassroots and national
events hosted for Wounded Warrior Project by volunteers and organizations
nationwide, and
WHEREAS, as part of the awareness of the needs of this organization, the
Wounded Warrior Project partakes in a Soldier Ride – Carolina Challenge event
that will bring cyclist participates through the City of Southport on Friday,
October 24, 2008 at approximately 11:00 a.m. with a stop at the Waterfront Park
for a brief ceremony.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the City of Southport Board of Aldermen
goes on record in support of the Wounded Warrior Project, and encourages our
citizens to come out on October 24th to visit the participants while they are
in Brunswick County to demonstrate our support for their service to our country
and their cause in providing the care needed for our Wounded Warriors.
DULY RESOLVED THIS THE 9TH DAY OF OCTOBER 2008.
/s/Mayor Sandra P. Spencer
Attest:
/s/Regina W. Alexander, MMC
i)   Budget Amendment # 4 FY
Alderman Fisher motioned to approve budget amendment # 4, seconded by Alderman
Frink, vote carried.
Budget Amendment # 4
Fiscal Year 2008-2009
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session October 9, 2008, that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for revenues received from donations for Community
Resource Program to the Police Department and Grant Revenue & Expenditures
anticipated on Fire Department FEMA Grant that was approved by the Board on
September 11, 2008.
General Fund
                                       Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section I
A.   Revenues Anticipated
      FEMA Grant Revenue         38,855
      Misc. Police Revenue (Donat1,150            4,623,828
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
      Fire Department
         FEMA Grant Supplies  40,900
         Department Supplies  (2,045)
      Police Department
         Community Resource Pr1,150            4,623,828
 
ADOPTED this the 9th day of October, 2008
/s/ Mayor Sandra P Spencer 
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
Clerk to the Board of Aldermen
j)    Tax Release
Alderman Potter motioned, seconded by Alderman Brown to approve a tax release
for Carol A and Joseph Kirley, Parcel # 221NE007 in the amount of $13.43 with a
tax value of $7,461. Reason: Not rental property.
X.
City Manager Comments
·   Introduced Amy Nelson, new City Planner
·   Requested Board ask the North Carolina Department of Transportation to
reconsider closing the ferry for repairs until January 2009. Closing the ferry
during the month of December will affect the City and downtown merchants during
the Christmas season. Alderman Brown motioned to direct the City Manager to
draft a letter from the Board, seconded by Alderman Boguskie, vote carried.
·   City officials met with CAMA's representative Heather Coates about erosion
along Bay Street, staff will apply for a permit.
·   Brunswick County declared a disaster area because of the storm Hanna. The
City will apply for FEMA reimbursement.
·   East Moore Street will be closed due to work by DOT beginning October 20.
·   Survey has been completed of the Yacht Basin where storm water runoff is a
problem. Staff is optimistic that the owner of the condominiums and Provision
Company will work together to resolve their issues. The City has requested that
plans be submitted to the City for review before any work is done in that area.
·   Stevens Park – City Manager Thornton reported that an individual offered to
remove the timber at fair market value. The person submitted a proposal to pile
the stumps and burn the debris for approximately $17,000. The City can get the
property timbered and the individual will pay the City. The second option is to
remove the stumps, debris and place in a central location for burning. Third
option is to burn the stumps, debris and grade over the holes created by
removal of the stumps. Cost is approximately $30,000. The Manager proposed that
the individual timber the property, staff acquire a burn permit, use the
certified heavy equipment operator that is employed by the City and perform the
services i.e. rental of a bulldozer. Alderman Adams stated opposition to
burning because of complaints and suggested staff looks for another timber
person that will grind stumps. City Manager Thornton and Alderman Boguskie
concurred that the issue is the size of the operation, which is small with less
than 7 acres of property. Alderman Adams stated that he will make some contacts
and provide the information to the City Manager.
Alderman Fisher stated the immediate need is to annex Stevens Park. City
Attorney Isenberg stated he would prepare a resolution for the November
meeting.
City Attorney Isenberg told the Board if the City receives an offer to timber
the six (6) acres, the offer must be published in the paper, and if anyone
wishes to raise the offer, they will have ten (10) days.
XI.
Other Business
Alderman Fisher thanked the Parks and Recreation Department for the 24th year
of the Captain Charlie's Fishing Tournament. He stated the Department of Marine
Fisheries denied an exemption of four hours to the City for a fishing license
to hold the tournament. He recommended the Board prepare a resolution asking
that a local bill be enacted to grant the City an exemption from requiring a
fishing license for the Captain Charlie's Fishing Tournament.
Alderman Potter stated the City provides the pier for people to enjoy, but the
state requires a fishing license. It is a City owned facility and should be
governed by the City with a blanket license so citizens would not have to pay.
City Manager Thornton explained the City pier is considered an inland rather
than coastal pier, and the law would have to be amended.
Alderman Fisher recommended the Board submit a resolution to the County asking
the Commissioners to form a task force to look into the antiquated tax system.
He offered to draft the resolution and present back to the Board.
XII.
Public Comments
Ms. Mary MacLean of 612 Fodale Ave presented a petition to the Board with
twenty-seven (27) names asking that the Code Enforcement Officer require the
clean up of lot 611 on Fodale Avenue. (Petition will be placed on file in the
Clerk's Office)
Alderman Adams asked that the City Manager, Chief of Police and the Building
Inspector look into the complaint and determine if there are any violations.
Alderman Fisher requested a report from Code Enforcement on the clean up.
XIII.
Board Comments
Alderman Potter presented an application from Frederick Guerrina requesting
appointment to the Transportation Committee.
Alderman Potter asked if the number of items could be reduced on the agenda,
the Board meet earlier or have two meetings per month in order to minimize the
time.
Alderman Adams asked that public comments be held at the beginning of the
agenda.
Mayor Spencer reported the Crop Walk would be held on Sunday, November 2, 2:00
p.m. at Franklin Park.
XIV.
Adjournment – 10:17 p.m.
Alderman Brown motioned to adjourn, seconded by Alderman Adams, vote carried.
_______________________________
Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
______________________________
Regina W. Alexander, MMC- Clerk
NOVEMBER 13, 2008
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
NOVEMBER 13, 2008 ALDERMEN CHAMBERS
SOUTHPORT, N. C.  7:30 P.M.
 
PRESENT:          Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
            Aldermen Nelson Adams, Donnie Potter, James Brown,
            Paul Fisher, Jwantana Frink and Richard "Ed" Boguskie
ABSENT:         None
STAFF PRESENT:      Alan Thornton, City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander, MMC, City Clerk
            Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
            Patty Miller, Finance Officer
            Amy Nelson, City Planner
            Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
            Randy Jones, Director of Tourism
            Charles Drew, Code Enforcement Officer
            Jerry Dover, Police Chief
I.
Call to Order – 7:30 p.m.
Mayor Spencer called the meeting to order at 7:30 p.m.
II.
Invocation
Mayor Pro Tem Brown delivered the invocation.
III.
Approval of Minutes
Alderman Brown motioned, seconded by Alderman Fisher to approve the minutes
from February 23 Board Retreat, September 26 Special Meeting, and October 9
regular meeting minutes. Motion seconded by Alderman Fisher, the vote was
unanimous.
IV.
Approval of Agenda
Mayor requested the following items be added:
·   Rescind Resolution of Intent for Annexation
·   Rescind Annexation Report
·   Resolution to be presented by Alderman Fisher on Brunswick County Property
Tax
Alderman Fisher motioned to amend the agenda, seconded by Alderman Brown. Vote
unanimous.
V.
Committee Reports
Electric Committee – Alderman Fisher informed the Board that the North Carolina
Electric Municipal Power Agency would convene on November 19, in Wilson, NC to
discuss the rate system.
VI.
Departmental Reports
Reports placed in agenda packet.
VII.
Public Hearing
A)   City of Southport
CAMA Core Land Use Plan
Alderman Boguskie motioned, seconded by Alderman Potter to enter Public Hearing
to receive comments on the CAMA Core Land Use Plan. Vote unanimous.
Mr. Woody Wilson of 502 Brunswick Street encouraged the Board to use the CAMA
Core Land Use Plan as the City's essential plan.
Mr. Michael Rice of 6098 Harbor Oaks Drive stated he liked the first half of
the CAMA Land Use Plan. He stated in review of the Plan, the second half does
not follow the first half because of the incompatible land uses. It is his
belief that there should be no industrial zoning within Southport.
Public Hearing – 7:50 p.m.
There being no further comments, Alderman Fisher moved to close the Public
Hearing, seconded by Alderman Brown, vote carried.
VIII.
New Business
A)    Adoption of the CAMA Core Land Use Plan
Alderman Boguskie motioned, seconded by Alderman Potter, to rescind the
Comprehensive Land Use Plan and to adopt the CAMA Core Land Use
Plan. Discussion: Attorney Isenberg and City Manager Thornton assured the Board
that any projects approved prior to this action would not be negated. The vote
of approval was unanimous.
B)    Rescind Resolution of Intent and Report for Involuntary Annexation
Attorney Isenberg stated that the public information meeting notice was not
advertised, therefore; he recommended that the Resolution of Intent and
Annexation Report that was adopted by the Board on September 26 be rescinded.
Alderman Brown moved to rescind the Resolution of Intent and Annexation Report,
seconded by Alderman Boguskie. The vote of approval was unanimous.
C.    Resolution of Intent to Annex NC 211 Area
City Manager Thornton presented two annexation reports, one adopted on
September 26, and the second one reduces the annexation area for consideration.
He noted that the difference in the reports is the area North of Jabbertown
Road. He along with Attorney Isenberg and Dale Holland, Planning Consultant
discussed the classification of a specific piece of property and its use
regarding the definition for density requirements as required by the General
Statutes. It was determined that the property could be defined commercial
instead of residential and meet the 60% that the City is required to have by
reducing the proposed area for annexation north of Jabbertown .
Alderman Brown motioned, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to adopt the Resolution
of Intent for the North Howe Street Corridor, which excludes the north side of
Jabbertown Road. Discussion: Alderman Fisher stated it is his belief that some
areas have been omitted and the City should annex more property. The votes were
5 ayes, Aldermen Boguskie, Brown, Adams, Potter, and Frink. 1 no, Alderman
Fisher. (Resolution of Intent Incorporated as Attachment #1)
Alderman Potter motioned, seconded by Alderman Frink to adopt the Annexation
Report for the North Howe Street area dated November 13, 2008. The votes were 5
ayes, Aldermen Potter, Frink, Brown, Boguskie and Adams. 1 no vote, Alderman
Fisher.
(Annexation Report Incorporated as Attachment #2)
D.    Resolution of Intent to Annex Stevens Park Property
Attorney Isenberg explained that this is a Resolution voluntarily annexing 6.70
acres of land owned by the City and calling for a Public Hearing on December
11, 2008. Alderman Fisher motioned to approve the Resolution of Intent to annex
the Steven's Park property, seconded by Alderman Boguskie. Vote unanimous.
(Resolution of Intent Incorporated as Attachment #3)
E.    Designation of Applicant Agent for FEMA Reimbursement Approval of FEMA
Disaster Assistance Agreement
Alderman Boguskie motioned, seconded by Alderman Frink to approve the
Resolution designating Alan Thornton, City Manager as primary, and Patty
Miller, Finance Director as secondary Applicant Agent to apply for FEMA
reimbursement for Tropical Storm Hanna. Vote unanimous. (Resolution
Incorporated as Attachment #4)
Alderman Potter motioned to approve the Disaster Assistance Agreement with
FEMA, seconded by Alderman Frink, vote carried. (Attachment #5)
F.    Resolution Authorizing Disposition of Personal Property by Private Sale
Alderman Potter motioned to approve the succeeding resolution authorizing the
disposition of surplus personal property by private sale. Motion seconded by
Alderman Fisher, vote unanimous.
RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE DISPOSITON OF CERTAIN PERSONAL PROPERTY BY PRIVATE
SALE
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport desires to dispose of
certain surplus property of the City of Southport; and
WHEREAS, said personal property is valued at less than $30,000 for any one item
or group of similar items; and
WHEREAS, the Board is assembled in a regular council meeting;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that:
1.   The following described property is hereby declared to be surplus to needs
of the City:
         DESCRIPTION      VIN#
Vehicles      1992 Ford Taurus      1FACP5041NA252758   Garage
         1999 Chevy Lumina      2G1WN52K1X9171808   Police
         2003 Ford Crown Vic      2FAHP71W13X213996   Police
Equipment   11988 Wheel Balancer      Hunter System 700,      Garage
Model 753070,
Serial # BA10435
         Lincoln Air Grease Gun
         Homelite mud pump      HJ1440175, 120tp3-TC    Street
         Homelite mud pump      31741821 121P31B
         Trench Box 8’x 6’x 6’
         Stihl Chain Saw- 24” Bar   11287911000
         12” Trenching Bucket for JCB Backhoe
         Fire Ladder                       Fire Dept.
         50 Christmas Wreath Pole Decorations            Building & Grounds
All vehicles and equipment are in fair to poor condition and will be sold “As
Is”
2.   The City Manager is authorized to dispose of the described property by
Private sale at a negotiated price pursuant to G.S. 160A-267
3.   The City Clerk shall publish notice summarizing this Resolution in
Accordance with G.S. 160A-267.
4.   No sale may be consummated earlier than 10 days from the date of
publication.
Adopted this 11th day of October 2007.
/s/ Sandra P. Spencer
Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
City Clerk
City Manager Thornton stated once the property has been sold, a report would be
provided to council members.
G.    Appointment - Brunswick County Airport Commission
The Board acknowledged letters from John Ramsey, Chairman of the Brunswick
County Airport Commission, and Mr. Owen Garner, Airport Commission member
requesting reappointment. Alderman Fisher motioned, seconded by Alderman Potter
to reappoint Mr. Owen Garner to the Airport Commission for a term of four (4)
years. The vote of approval was unanimous. Term will expire December 2012.
H.    Budget Amendment
Alderman Fisher motioned to approve budget amendment #5 upon recommendation of
the Finance Director, seconded by Alderman Frink. Vote carried.
Budget Amendment # 5
Fiscal Year 2008-2009
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session November 13, 2008, that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for revenues received from Insurance Recovery for R/M on a
vehicle in the Police Department.
General Fund
                               Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section I
A.   Revenues Anticipated
   Insurance Recovery       $2,275.95
                                                4,626,104
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
      Police Department
      R/M Vehicle        $2,275.95
                                                4,626,104
 
ADOPTED this the 13th day of November, 2008
/s/ Mayor Sandra P Spencer 
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
City Clerk
I.    Tax Release
Alderman Fisher motioned, seconded by Alderman Brown to approve the tax release
for Southport Trading Company, in the amount of $589.50. Vote unanimous.
J.    Tax Resolution
Alderman Fisher motioned to adopt the tax resolution and to request the County
Commissioners appoint a Task Force with municipal representatives to study the
County Tax System, and make recommendations to the General Assembly in order to
correct the inadequacies in the state tax system. He asked that copies of the
Resolution be forwarded to municipalities in Brunswick County, i.e. Senator
Soles, Representatives Stiller and Hill. Alderman Brown seconded the motion.
Vote unanimous.
Resolution Concerning Brunswick County Property Tax
WHEREAS, a series of unprecedented events in the national and international
financial markets has impacted individual property owners; and
WHEREAS, all levels of government have concerns for an individual's ability to
pay bills and taxes; and
WHEREAS, the property tax burden has shifted to single family homeowners; and
WHEREAS, the North Carolina tax system is antiquated and needs updating.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the City of Southport Board of Aldermen
request that the Brunswick County Commissioners form a Tax Task Force
consisting of county and municipal representatives to study the property tax
system and make recommendations to the County Commissioners for implementation.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the recommendation not within the authority for
implementation by the County Commissioners be forwarded to the local
representatives in the N. C. General Assembly for appropriate action.
DULY RESOLVED by the City of Southport Board of Aldermen this 13th day of
November 2008.
/s/ Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
Attest:  
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC, City Clerk
IX.
City Manager Comments
·   Requested Board members interested in the Progress Energy tour complete the
Visitor Access Authorization Form for clearance. Tour scheduled December 9.
·   Provided a form for Aldermen to fill out for the Board Retreat as to topics
they would like to discuss.
·   Retreat scheduled January 17, 2009, 8:00 a.m.
X.
Other Business
Alderman Fisher motioned that the City Manager prepare a resolution and send to
local legislators asking that a local bill be introduced to exempt the children
that participate in the Captain Charlie's Annual Fishing Tournament from the
requirement of having a fishing license for the one day event. Motion seconded
by Alderman Boguskie. Vote unanimous.
Alderman Fisher reported that the CEO of the North Carolina Eastern Municipal
Power Agency resigned and Art Hubert has been appointed as Interim CEO.
Alderman Brown acknowledged the letter in the Board's agenda packet from the
Associated Artists asking for permission to use the entire Senior Citizen
Building on Atlantic Avenue for their pottery studio once the Senior Citizen
program relocates to its new facility. Alderman Adams asked that this be placed
on the agenda for the Board's Retreat.
XI.
Public Comments
Mr. Don Reavis, a resident of Dosher Cutoff stated that there is several tax-
exempt properties around him with some parcels not included. He stated that
there are five residences on Dosher Cutoff, but the City is proposing to annex
three of the properties. and they already have services. City Attorney Isenberg
informed Mr. Reavis that a public information meeting would be held on January
5 and 29 where the public will be able to voice their comments about the
proposed annexation.
Mt. Steve Siler, of Pebble Shore Lane asked if the public would be able to bid
on the surplus property. City Attorney responded sale cannot be concluded until
ten (10) days after advertisement.
XII.
Board Comments
Alderman Fisher stated a blip in the electrical system was traced back to the
feeder that comes into the City's sub-station, which has had some problems and
is being investigated.
Alderman Boguskie and Randy Jones presented the new Christmas wreaths that were
purchased by the City.
Alderman Boguskie addressed Committee meetings and the public not knowing where
and when the meetings are held. Attorney stated notices should be provided for
Committees with two or more members, the same as for any other public body, and
if the Committees have established a set time, it should be posted.
XIII.
Adjournment - 9:15 p.m.
No further business, Alderman Potter moved to adjourn, seconded by Alderman
Brown, vote carried.
___________________________
/s/ Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
_____________________________
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
City Clerk
DECEMBER 11, 2008
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
DECEMBER 11, 2008 ALDERMEN CHAMBERS
SOUTHPORT, N.C.   7:30 P.M.
 
PRESENT:          Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
            Aldermen Donnie Potter, Jwantana Frink, Richard "Ed" Boguskie
            Paul Fisher (Present at 8:15 pm)
ABSENT:         Aldermen Nelson Adams and James Brown
STAFF:         Alan Thornton, City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander, MMC, City Clerk
            Michael Isenberg, City Attorney
            Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation
            Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
            Randy Jones, Tourism
            Charles Drew, Code Enforcement
            Ralph Cardwell, Public Utilities
            Amy Nelson, Planning
            Patty Miller, Finance
            Jerry Dove, Chief of Police
            Greg Cumbee, Fire Chief
I.
Call to Order – 7:30 p.m.
Mayor Spencer called the meeting to order at 7:35 p.m.
II.
Invocation
Chaplain Anthony Buntyn of the Police Department delivered the invocation.
III.
Approval of Minutes – November 13, 2008 Regular Meeting
Alderman Boguskie motioned, seconded by Alderman Potter to approve the regular
meeting minutes of November 13. The vote of approval was unanimous.
IV.
Approval of Agenda
Mayor Spencer asked that the executive session be moved to the end of the
agenda.
Alderman Potter motioned to amend the agenda by adding the executive session at
the end of the meeting, seconded by Alderman Frink, vote carried.
V.
Committee Reports
a)    Southport Fire Department – Greg Cumbee/Robert Howard
Greg Cumbee, Fire Chief told the Board that 400 fires calls were conducted in
2008; the lot for the new fire station has been cleared of debris, staked off,
and trees marked.
Mr. Robert Howard, member of the Fire Station Committee, gave an update on
construction plans that are 95-98% complete. He stated with the economic
situation, construction costs and financing options are favorable. Grant
options were discussed with the City Manager and Congressman McIntyre's staff.
He stated the representative from Congressman McIntyre staff favors funding
through the USDA. He asked if the Board needed additional information for
consideration in order to move forward with the project. He stated optimism
about the capital campaign because they can show the cost benefit of this
project. Once authorized to proceed, they will be able to obtain a professional
company to price the project out, but do not want to spend monies until the
City authorizes the Fire Department to proceed with the project.
b)   Southport Forestry Committee – Clay Fairley
Mr. Clay Fairley, Chairman of the Forestry Committee, gave an update and the
Committee's purpose. He explained that the oaks in the City were infected with
a disease several years ago, and the City wanted to preserve as many trees as
possible because of their uniqueness and the character they bring to the City.
The Forestry Committee plants approximately 20 live oak trees each year. The
Boy Scouts water the trees, volunteers assist with pruning once every 3 to 5
years and an arborist comes in to assist. He thanked City staff for their
assistance. Mayor Spencer and Board members thanked the Forestry Committee for
their volunteer work.
VI.
Departmental Reports
Reports included in agenda packets.
Parks and Recreation Department: Mayor Spencer asked Heather Hemphill, about
programs through Brunswick Community College and working in cooperation with
the college to hold classes in the City where citizens could attend. Mrs.
Hemphill stated she would check into this.
VII.
Public Hearings- 8:02 p.m.
a)    Zoning Reclassification #RZ 08-1107-01
b)    Amendment to CAMA Core Land Use Plan Future Land Use Map
c)    Annexation of Steven's Park Property
Alderman Boguskie motioned, seconded by Alderman Potter to enter Public Hearing
to receive comments on the following matters, vote carried.
a)    Zoning Reclassification #RZ 08-1107-01
City Manager Thornton stated the rezoning is for three parcels of land off Lord
Street, tax parcels numbers 237DC014, 237DC015, 237DC01602, which is the site
of the new Fire Station. Properties are presently zoned SP-Residential-10 (R-
10), and requests to rezone to SP-Business District (BD).
No public comments.
b)    Amendment to CAMA Core Land Use Plan Future Land Use Map
City Manager Thornton stated if the Board votes to re-zone the property, the
CAMA Core Land Use Plan Future Land Use Map must reflect the changes.
No public comments.
c)    Annexation of Steven's Park Property (Contiguous)
City Manager Thornton stated this is a voluntary annexation initiated by the
City.
No public comments
Alderman Potter motioned to close the Public Hearings at 8:07 p.m. and to re-
enter regular session, seconded by Alderman Boguskie, vote carried.
VIII.
New Business
a)    Consideration of Zoning Reclassification # RZ 08-1107-01
Alderman Fisher motioned to approve the zoning reclassification to SP-Business
District, seconded by Alderman Boguskie, the vote of approval unanimous.
b)    Consideration of Amendment to CAMA Core Land Use Plan Future Land Use Map
Alderman Boguskie motioned to approve the amendment to the CAMA Core Land Use
Plan Future Land Use Map, seconded by Alderman Fisher, vote carried.
c)    Consideration of Stevens Park Annexation Ordinance
Alderman Boguskie motioned, seconded by Alderman Frink to approve the
Annexation Ordinance for Steven's Park, vote carried.
AN ORDINANCE TO EXTEND THE CORPORATE LIMITS OF THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT, NORTH
CAROLINA
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen has adopted a resolution under G. S. 160A-31
stating its intent to annex the area described below; and
WHEREAS, a public hearing on the question of this annexation was held at
Southport City Hall at 7:30 pm on December 11, 2008, after due notice; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that the proposed annexation meets
the requirements of G. S. 160A-31;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport, North Carolina that:
Section 1. By virtue of the authority granted by G. S. 160A-31, the following
described contiguous property owned by the City of Southport is hereby annexed
and made part of the City of Southport as of the date hereof
See attached Exhibit A.
Section 2. The Mayor shall cause to be recorded in the office of the Register
of Deeds of Brunswick County and in the Office of the Secretary of State in
Raleigh, North Carolina, an accurate map of the annexed territory, together
with a certified copy of this ordinance. Such a map shall also be delivered to
the Brunswick County Board of Elections as required by G. S. 163-288.1.
Adopted this 11th day of December 2008.
City of Southport
BY:
/s/ Sandra P. Spencer
Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
Clerk
d)   City of Southport – County of Brunswick Memorandum of Understanding
Regarding Short-Term Use of County's Treatment capacity in the West Brunswick
Regional Wastewater Treatment System.
Alderman Boguskie motioned, seconded by Alderman Potter to approve the
Memorandum of Understanding and authorize Mayor Spencer to execute it. The vote
of approval was unanimous. (Copy of Memorandum of Understanding Incorporated as
Attachment #1)
e)   Cell Phone Use Policy and Provider Contract
City Manager Thornton explained the City has several cell phone providers with
various plans; and to gain better control of cell phone usage, staff is
proposing to adopt a Cell Phone Use Policy. Staff also recommends the Board
enter into an Agreement with Alltel to provide cell phone service to the City,
which will result in a financial savings by consolidating existing plans.
Alderman Potter motioned to approve the Cell Phone Use Policy and to enter into
Agreement with Alltel to provide cell phone service to the City. Motion
seconded by Alderman Fisher, vote of approval was unanimous.
CELL PHONE POLICY AND PROCEDURE
M. Alan Thornton
City Manager
Adopted December 11, 2008
Introduction
This policy is being initiated in order for the City to comply with Internal
Revenue Service (IRS) rules regarding the taxability of employee cell phones
and devices.
Under IRS Code Section 274 (d), the IRS considers cell phones to be “listed
property” and as such requires detailed record keeping including (a) the amount
of the expense; (b) the time and place of each call and to whom it was made.
The IRS can declare that all undocumented use is personal and should be taxed
as wages, even if the cell phone or device were mostly used for business
purposes.
Purpose
To establish guidelines for the issuance and usage of City owned cellular
telephones as well as procedures for monitoring and controlling costs related
to cellular telephone use in conjunction with City Business. This policy
outlines the cellular phone option supported by the City, guidelines for
appropriate use and other administrative issues related to cellular phone
acquisition and reimbursement. This policy was created in order to enhance
employee safety, limit City liability, help manage telecommunications costs and
comply with IRS Code Section 274 (d).
Definitions
Cellular equipment – City provided cellular telephones, wireless telephones
that transmit communication via tower antennas, cellular data transmission/
receipt equipment, and radio-cellular telephones.
Business related calls – Calls necessary to conduct City Business.
Landline phone – Any communication device that initiates and completes phone
connections via the regular telephone system.
Acceptable Personal Calls – From time to time staff may need to use the City
owned cellular phone to notify family of change in work plans. Staff is
encouraged to use landline phones as much as possible, and use the City owned
cell phones as a last resort. Emergency calls will be considered acceptable
personal calls if a landline phone is not available at the time.
Policy
City cell phones are provided to improve customer service and to enhance
business efficiency. Cell phones are not a personal benefit and should not be
used as a primary mode of personal communication.
Using a cell phone while operating a motorized vehicle is strongly discouraged.
Employees should plan to allow placement of calls prior to driving or while on
rest breaks. When an employee must use their cell phone while driving, they
should keep conversations brief, avoid unnecessary calls, and no calls should
be made if driving is hazardous. If it is necessary for the employee to read or
write while taking the call, the employee should pull off the road.
All employees should take time to become familiar with the various cell phone
functions. The cell phone should be placed where it is easy to see and reach.
Employees should bear in mind that cell phone calls can be intercepted and
should take proper precautions when discussing confidential information.
Procedures
Each Department Director must determine which positions require a cell phone or
other device by identifying those employees who have demonstrated a business
need. Other communication means such as land-line phones, network access,
email, etc. should be used instead of cellular equipment whenever possible.
The City Manager will evaluate the Department Director’s recommendation for
number of cellular telephones requested; number of minutes needed and required
service area in determining the service plan for the City of Southport.
Whenever possible, one plan will be used for all departments.
City Issued Cell Phones:
Employees are provided a City issued cell phone or device. Employees are
responsible for the care and maintenance of the device. The device must be
secured at all times. Employees are required to immediately report the loss or
theft of the City-owned device to their supervisor. City-owned cellular
services are not for personal use for calls made or received except in an
emergency. According to the Internal Revenue Code, any personal use of a City
issued cell phone or device may be considered taxable income and subject to
withholding taxes or the employee may reimburse the City for personal phone
calls.
The employees must review their cell phone monthly invoice and identify
personal calls. All personal calls are to be highlighted and the City is to be
reimbursed by the employee on a monthly basis by completing the reimbursement
form attached. In the event the employee fails to reimburse the City, the
Finance Department will deduct the amount of personal cell phone usage from the
employee's wages.
The following is an example of the calculation of personal usage that is
reimbursable to the City:
Total Monthly Phone Fee               $ 20.15
Pooled Minutes Fees                  $170.49
Total Fee and Pooled Minutes Fee (20.15 + 170.49)      $190.64
Total Department Pooled Minutes            3,000
Per Minute Charge ($190.64 / 3,000)            .063547 cents/minute
Personal Minutes Highlighted On Bill           17
Monthly Phone Fee Due
County for Personal Use (.063547 X 17)          $1.08
Personal Cell Phone – Reimbursement for Business Use
Employees conducting business on personal cell phones are entitled to
reimbursement. If reimbursements are requested, the cell phone number will be
considered public information. The amount of reimbursement will be determined
by the City Manager.
Penalties
Violation of this policy shall result in disciplinary action and may be a cause
for termination.
Department Directors are responsible for reviewing cell phone bills for their
staff for reimbursement of personal calls and the Finance Department will rely
upon the Department Director’s authorization for accuracy of personal vs. work-
related calls.
CITY OF SOUTHPORT
CELL PHONE PERSONAL USE REIMBURSEMENT FORM
 
                    Total   Pooled  Total   Personal  % of     Total
Department Employee Monthly Minutes Dept.   Calls     Personal Reimbursement Date
           Name     Phone   Fees    Pooled  (Minutes) Calls    Costs         Paid
                    Bill            Minutes
 
Example Jane Doe 20.15 170.49 3000 17 .0056667 1.08
 
 
 
 
 
Department Head Reviewed_________________________________
Date:___________________
f)    ABC Board Appointment
Staff reported that William A. Davis was the only person who made application
for appointment to the ABC Board. There were no nominations from the floor.
Alderman Fisher motioned to appoint William Davis to the ABC Board for a term
of three (3) years, term to expire December 2011. Motion seconded by Alderman
Frink, vote unanimous.
City Manager Thornton stated a letter was sent to Mr. Jones, Chairman of the
ABC Board requesting a list of Board members, appointment dates, expiration
dates and terms of office. This appointment has been open since August, but
staff was unaware of it and upon receiving this information, it will assist
staff in getting information to the Board in a timely manner.
g)    NCDOT Memorandum of Agreement regarding debris removal on State Secondary
Roads within the City's Corporate limits
Mr. Thornton stated the Agreement would not require annual renewals. It gives
the City the ability to request release of certain state secondary roads within
the City for the purpose of vegetative debris removal. This is an open-ended
Agreement where the City can opt out at any time except during a period of
release.
Alderman Boguskie motioned, seconded by Alderman Potter to approve the NCDOT
Memorandum of Agreement regarding debris removal on State Secondary Roads
within the City's corporate limits. The vote of approval was unanimous.
(Agreement Incorporated as Attachment #2)
h)    Budget Amendments # 6 & 7
Alderman Fisher moved, seconded by Alderman Potter to approve budget amendments
#6 and 7. Vote carried.
Budget Amendment # 6
Fiscal Year 2008-2009
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session December 11, 2008, that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for revenues received Blue Knights Motorcycle Club to
sponsor Southport Police Department’s Shop with a Cop Program.
General Fund
                               Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section I
A.   Revenues Anticipated
      Donation           1200             4,627,304
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
      Police Department
      Community Resource 1200             4,627,304
 
ADOPTED this the 11th day of December, 2008
/s/ Mayor Sandra P Spencer 
Attest: 
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk to the Board of Aldermen
Budget Amendment # 7
Fiscal Year 2008-2009
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session December 11, 2008, that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted to adjust budgeted line items in the Powell Bill fund from
Street Resurfacing to Sidewalk Repairs. The total budget amount for Powell Bill
will not change.
 
Powell Bill Fund
                               Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section II
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
      Sidewalk Repairs   30,500
      Street Resurfacing (30,500)         111,100
 
ADOPTED this the 11th day of December, 2008
/s/ Sandra P. Spencer
Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk to the Board of Aldermen
i)   Fire Department Bid Process
Alderman Frink stated upon hearing from the Fire Department representatives,
talking with Congressman McIntyre's staff, and in consideration of low interest
rates, she believes this may be an opportunity to save money and motioned,
seconded by Alderman Fisher to authorize the Fire Department to go out for bids
after completion of construction plans and drawings for the new fire station.
Discussion: Alderman Boguskie questioned once the bids are received, and
presented to the Board for review, financing options will be discussed by the
Board including the availability of funds. Attorney Isenberg stated the City
would be under no obligation to accept the bids. The vote of approval was
unanimous.
IX.
City Manager Comments
City Manager Thornton made the following comments:
·   Publicly thanked the Knights of Columbus for donating labor to landscape in
front of City Hall.
·   Provided agenda for Board's Retreat scheduled January 17, 2009, 8:00 am
·   Provided FY 07-08 Audit (Auditor will make presentation in January)
·   Copy of UDO text amendments for Board review, encouraged the Board to
compare and review carefully since there are significant changes.
X.
Other Business
Alderman Fisher reported:
·   That he is on the Search Committee to hire a new CEO for ElectriCities.
·   Rate Committee met in November, four percent (4.0%) wholesale rate increase
proposed in February. ElectriCities Rate Committee will meet to determine the
best way to implement the increase and the City's Electric Committee will also
meet to discuss this matter.
·   Power Agency approved $735 million budget for January 2009-December '09.
·   Christmas Bonus – Alderman Fisher motioned to give each permanent employee
a $50 Christmas Bonus, seconded by Alderman Frink, vote unanimous.
Mayor Spencer reported that she along with Aldermen Boguskie and Fisher toured
the Progress Energy Power Plant.
XII.
Public Comments
None
XIII.
Board Comments
Alderman Frink stated the Santa Claus event sponsored by the Fire Department
was well attended by 400+ children and parents.
City Manager Thornton encouraged the Board and public to attend the "Southport
Holi-Day" i.e. the tour of homes and flotilla.
Alderman Potter expressed appreciation to City staff and volunteers for their
service and work during 2008.
XIV.
Executive Session - 8:51 p.m.
The City Manager requested executive pursuant to NCGS 143-318.11(a)(5) and 143-
318.11(a)(6)
Alderman Potter motioned, seconded by Alderman Fisher, to enter closed session
for the purpose of instructing the City Manager concerning the position to be
taken on behalf of the Board in negotiating the price and other material terms
of a proposed agreement for the acquisition of a sewer pump station site,
located along Sandy Lane which is owned by Blake Family Properties, LLC. The
vote was unanimous.
XV.
Regular Session Reconvened – 9:23 p.m.
Alderman Potter motioned to re-enter regular session, seconded by Alderman
Fisher, vote carried.
In regular session, Alderman Potter motioned, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to
accept the deed and easement from Blake Family properties for the sewer pump
station, seconded by Alderman Boguskie. Vote unanimous.
Alderman Fisher motioned that the Board accept the salary proposed by the City
Manager in the amount of $60,000 for the Public Services Director, seconded by
Alderman Boguskie. Vote unanimous.
XVI.
Adjournment – 9:25 p.m.
Alderman Boguskie motioned to adjourn, seconded by Alderman Frink, vote
carried.
___________________________
Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
____________________________
Regina W. Alexander, MMC
City Clerk
Executive Session
 
Executive Session Minutes December 11, 2008
 
The Board discussed securing property from the Blake Family to construct a
sewer pumping station off highway 211. City Manager Thornton advised the Board
that staff has been working to acquire an easement and property for the new
pump station. Staff met several times with Blake family representatives and
they agreed not to charge the City for the land and easement contingent upon
the City providing sewer allocation of 75,000 gallons per day for the next ten
(10) years.
Upon discussion, the Board believed this to be a workable solution, which would
result in a savings to the City and agreed to provide sewer capacity per
staff's discussion with the Blake Family.
Personnel: City Manager Thornton stated that Ralph Cardwell has been serving as
Interim Director of Public Services. He offered the permanent position to Mr.
Cardwell and he agreed to accept the position for an annual salary of $60,000.
He explained that he could not approve the requested salary without Board
authorization. He and Mr. Cardwell also discussed hiring someone to fill the
position of Load Management Coordinator. Board consensus was that Mr. Cardwell
had done a good job and stated their support of the recommended salary.
No further discussion, motion made to re-enter regular session by Alderman
Potter, seconded by Alderman Fisher, vote carried.
_____________________________
Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
____________________________
Regina W. Alexander, MMC
2009
JANUARY 8, 2009
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
JANUARY 8, 2009   ALDERMEN CHAMBERS
SOUTHPORT, NC     7:30 P.M.
 
PRESENT:         Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
            Aldermen Donnie Potter, Nelson Adams, James Brown,
            Jwantana Frink, Ed Boguskie and Paul Fisher
BOARD MEMBERS ABSENT:   None
STAFF:         Alan Thornton, City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander, MMC, City Clerk
            Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation
            Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
            Amy Nelson, Planning Director
            Ralph Cardwell, Public Services Director
            Patty Miller, Finance Director
            Jerry Dove, Police Chief
            Randy Jones, Tourism Director
STAFF ABSENT: Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
I.
Call to Order – 7:30 p.m.
Mayor Spencer called the meeting to order at 7:33 p.m.
II.
Invocation
Alderman Brown delivered the invocation.
III.
Approval of Minutes: Regular Meeting December 11, 2008
Special Meeting December 30, 2008
Alderman Boguskie motioned, seconded by Alderman Potter to approve the December
11 and Special Meeting Minutes of December 30, 2008. The vote was unanimous.
IV.
Approval of Agenda
City Manager Thornton noted item "A" New Business should read "Audit Report"
and request under c) Resolution Authorizing, and d) Pre-application for two
grants under the Governor's Crime Commission Program written by the Police
Department. Alderman Potter moved to amend the agenda to include the changes,
seconded by Alderman Brown. The vote of approval was unanimous.
V.
Departmental Reports
Included in the agenda packets.
VI.
New Business
a)    Presentation of Audit Report – Menton Padgett
Menton Padgett of Brock, Berry, Padgett and Chandler, PLLC presented the City's
annual audit report for year ending June 30, 2008, and gave a financial
synopsis of the financial condition of the City. A copy of the audit report is
on file in the City Clerk's office and Finance Department.
b)    Tax Releases
Alderman Fisher motioned, seconded by Alderman Frink to approve the following
tax releases, vote carried.
Daniel Allen, $3.43, Cheryl Coleman, $15.52, Robert Lloyd Endres, 45.17, Ural
Dean Hall, $3.36, Donald Victor Jones, $3.55, Charles Dean Holden, $12.63,
Pleasant Oaks, LLC, $9.23, Robert Phillips $3.69, Fred Smartly, $12.74, James
W. Smith, $9.90 Kendall H. Suh, $47.13.
c)    Resolution – N. C. Rural Economic Development Center
City Manager Thornton stated the City is seeking a grant from the rural center
for engineering and design work for the Wastewater Improvement Section. The
City is applying for $40,000 and the match is $20,000.
Authorizing Resolution by City of Southport Board of Alderman
WHEREAS, in the summer of 2008, the North Carolina General Assembly included a
$50 million appropriation to the North Carolina Rural Economic Development
Center in the FY 2007-2009 state budget, for the purpose of making grants to
rural communities in need of water and wastewater infrastructure improvements;
and
WHEREAS, the City of Southport has need for and intends to provide wastewater
service to existing residences and commercial buildings within the
extraterritorial jurisdiction; and
WHEREAS, the City of Southport intends to request grant assistance from the
Planning Grants Program for the development of a Wastewater Master Plan and
Capital Improvement Plan;
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, BY THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN OF THE CITY OF
SOUTHPORT:
That the City of Southport will arrange financing for all remaining costs of
the project, if approved for a grant.
That the City of Southport will provide for efficient operation and maintenance
of the project on completion of construction thereof.
That M. Alan Thornton, City Manager, and successors so titled, is hereby
authorized to execute and file an application on behalf of the City of
Southport with the NCREDC (Rural Center) for a grant to assist in the
construction of the project described above.
That M. Alan Thornton, City Manager, and successors so titled, is hereby
authorized and directed to furnish such information as the Rural Center may
request in connection with such application or the project; to make the
assurances as contained above; and to execute such other documents as may be
required in connection with the application.
That the City of Southport has substantially complied or will substantially
comply with all federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations and
ordinances applicable to the project and to the grants pertaining thereto.
Adopted this January 8, 2009 at City of Southport, North Carolina.
/s/ Sandra P. Spencer
Signature of Chief Elected Official
Authorized Representative
Attest:  
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, Clerk
d)   Grant Application – Police Department
City Manager Thornton presented grant applications that the Police Department
will be applying for: 1) Juvenile Delinquency Prevention Program   (High
Impact) a program working with disadvantaged youths from Southport Elementary,
and 2) Narcotics Interdiction and Reduction Program that will pay overtime
resources for officers working with narcotic activities. Alderman Brown
motioned to authorize submittal of the grant applications, seconded by Alderman
Adams, the vote carried.
VII.
City Manager Comments
City Manager Thornton reminded Board members of the scheduled retreat on
Saturday, January 17, 8:00 a.m. in the Dosher Hospital Board meeting room.
(Hood Building)
VIII.
Other Business
Alderman Fisher reported that the City's Electric Committee met on January 7,
and recommendations will be forthcoming due to the 4.0% wholesale increase that
will take effect February 1 from the North Carolina Eastern Municipal Power
Agency.
City Manager Thornton will present the final document with recommendations from
the Electric Committee to the Board, prior to it being placed on the February
agenda.
IX.
Public Comments
Mr. Rhodes Messick of 6231 Cottage Creek Road extended an invitation to the
Board to attend the" No Port" meeting that will be held January 22, 7:00 p.m.
at the Southport Community Building.
X.
Board Comments
Anchor: Alderman Fisher informed the Board that the Jim and Bridgette Chirico
wished to donate to the Maritime Museum an anchor located on West Moore Street.
Alderman Fisher stated he spoke with Mrs. Mary Strickland, Director of the
Museum and she will work out the logistics as to receiving the anchor and
having it mounted.
Volunteer Reception: Alderman Boguskie invited the Board to the Southport
Visitor's Center Volunteer Appreciation Reception, 3:00 pm on January 14,
Robert Ruark Inn which is an annual event sponsored by the Department of
Tourism.
Caswell Avenue: Alderman Adams stated community residents have expressed an
interest for many years of opening up the right of way behind the college annex
for through traffic, including paving the street and maintaining it. The Board
looked at a survey map showing the city owns 99 feet of right of way. He asked
that the City notify Brunswick Community College of its intent to open the
street for public access by letter from the City Manager, if the Board agrees.
Alderman Fisher stated when the Alternative School was located behind the
college annex as a part of Brunswick County's Alternative School, trailers
housed a nursery for students with children, and it was discussed during that
time that the City's right of way was blocked. The school has been relocated,
the trailers removed and he supports opening the right of way.
Mayor Spencer recommended the City Attorney verify the City's ownership of the
right of way.
City Manager Thornton stated he contacted Dr. Stephen Greiner, President of
Brunswick Community College and a meeting is scheduled. He will express
Southport's interest in having some input concerning their plans for the
Southport Campus. He asked that the Board allow him time to meet with Dr.
Greiner to discuss the City's interests and concerns. Mr. Thornton noted that
the property had been surveyed, and if the City had not taken the appropriate
action to close the right of way, it still exists. He will report to the Board
at the February meeting.
MLK Resolution: Mayor read notice of the three-day Celebration January 16, 17
and 19 in honor of Dr. M. L. King. Alderman Fisher motioned to adopt the
following resolution , seconded by Alderman Brown, vote carried.
RESOLUTION HONORING DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING JR. CELEBRATION
WHEREAS, the Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Celebration Committee was formed and
entrusted with the responsibility to plan a community wide celebration to
appropriately honor this great leader; and
WHEREAS, Dr. Martin Luther King Celebration Committee has selected the dates of
Friday, January 16, Sunday, January 18 and Monday, January 19, 2009 to hold
this celebration with events scheduled to include youth programs, march and
roundtable breakfast, and
WHEREAS,  the Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Celebration has established a mission
statement in which its most important goal is to bring people of the community
together for the purpose of promoting good will and harmony for the betterment
of the entire community; and
WHEREAS, it is extremely important that the great works and deeds of Dr. Martin
Luther King, Jr. be duly remembered, honored and recognized in this most
fitting and proper way.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Mayor and Board of Aldermen of
Southport recognizes January 16,18,19 2009 as the official dates of celebration
by the Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Celebration Committee for the purpose of
honoring this great man and encourage all citizens to participate in the
activities scheduled.
Adopted the 8th day of January 2009.
/s/ Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor      Attest: /s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
Committees: Mayor Spencer stated that several people have requested to be
appointed to Committees; however, she would like to discuss the City's
Committee structure during the Board's Retreat before making the appointments.
XI.
Adjournment – 8:12 pm
No further business, the meeting adjourned upon motion of Alderman Brown,
seconded by Alderman Frink, vote carried.
______________________________
Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
______________________________
Regina W. Alexander, MMC
City Clerk
JANUARY 17, 2009
RETREAT
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN          RETREAT
DOSHER HOSPITAL BOARD ROOM JANUARY 17, 2009
SOUTHPORT, N.C.            8:00 A.M.
 
PRESENT:         Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
            Aldermen Nelson Adams, Donnie Potter,
            Paul Fisher, Ed Boguskie, James Brown and Jwantana Frink
ABSENT:         None
STAFF PRESENT:       Alan Thornton, City Manager
            Regina Alexander, MMC-City Clerk
            Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
            Patty Miller, Finance Director
            J. V. Dove, Police Chief
            Ralph Cardwell, Public Utilities Director
            Amy Nelson, Planning Director
            Heather Hemphill, Parks and Recreation Director
            Randy Jones, Director of Tourism
            Gregory Cumbee, Chief-Fire Department
Mayor Spencer called the meeting to order at 8:00 a.m. and welcomed everyone.
Alderman Brown pronounced the invocation.
Mayor Spencer stated that she asked Attorney Isenberg too attend the meeting to
discuss the lawsuit filed against the City and entertained a motion for closed
session.
Executive Session – 8:05 A.M.
Alderman Boguskie motioned, seconded by Alderman Brown to enter closed session
pursuant to North Carolina General Statute 143-318.11 (3) to confer with legal
counsel. The vote of approval was unanimous.
Attorney Isenberg discussed the lawsuit filed by the Southeast Brunswick
Sanitary District. He recommended the Board hire a contract litigator to
represent the City. He stated from the date the lawsuit was received, the City
has thirty (30) days to answer. The Board agreed to file for an extension.
The Board asked Attorney Isenberg to recommend an attorney that specializes in
contract litigation.
City Manager Thornton stated he contacted the North Carolina League of
Municipalities to obtain the names of lawyers that specialize in litigation.
The Board directed Attorney Isenberg and the City Manager to select a firm
mutually agreed upon to represent the City.
Alderman Frink motioned to grant the City Manager and Attorney the authority to
file for an extension to the lawsuit and to hire a Litigation Attorney mutually
agreed upon, and the City Manager authorized to enter into contract with the
Contract Attorney. Motion seconded by Alderman Potter, vote unanimous.
Regular Session Reconvened – 8:25 am
Alderman Boguskie motioned to re-enter regular session, seconded by Alderman
Potter, vote carried.
City Manager Thornton gave a brief overview of the objectives of the Board
Retreat:
·   Provided copy of answers to questions that was asked by citizens at the
Public Information meeting on Annexation. Public Hearing scheduled January 22,
6:30 pm
·   The City is being proactive and positioning itself to receive economic
stimulus funding to offset grant in the sewer reversal project. Staff working
to be ready if funds come down from the federal government to the State
·   Grant submitted January 15th to the Rural Center for the Master Planning of
Wastewater Collection
·   Monitoring revenues, requested each department to submit contingency plan
for financing and curtail spending if not necessary.
·   Propose to establish a contingency line item in each departmental budget
for purpose of emergencies.
Finance Department – Patty Miller
Taxes
The Finance Director asked the Board to determine if they wished the County to
collect the City's ad valorem taxes or continue to bill in-house. She explained
if the City elects not to join the county; the City needs to upgrade its
software to accommodate the change in the new tax law circuit breaker and
provide training for staff. The new tax law circuit breaker is a tax relief for
the permanently disabled, individuals 65 years of age or older and based on
income limit of $37,500. The County will qualify individuals as well as the
calculations to insure compliance with the law. Ms. Miller stated the City
would still have a designated tax collector. The cost of the county
implementing the circuit breaker is 0.75%.
The Board asked Ms. Miller to provide a cost analysis comparing the County
collecting taxes to the City, including cost of operation to the City, effect
on the finance department, level of responsibility with the new tax law and the
impact on the City's levy.
Cash Investment Policy
The Board discussed investments, return on the dollar and where monies are
invested. Ms. Miller stated she would present a formal cash investment policy
to the Board.
She requested that Integrated Credit Card software with utilities be placed
back in the budget, which will allow the City to post recurring credit card
payments and online payments, once the website is updated.
Ms. Miller and City Manager Thornton discussed the provision in the ABC law,
which provides 30% of its gross receipts to the schools, and 5% to Dosher
Hospital as shown in the Audit report. Staff is looking into this provision
because some municipalities had this local provision changed. City Manager
Thornton stated that he would research this further and look at the possibility
of the distribution formula being revised, which would net additional revenues
for the City.
Financial Statements and Debt Schedule
General fund total indebtedness totaled $222,183.00, Water and Sewer Fund
indebtedness totaled $1,718,225, which include the bond and NCDEHR installment.
Tourism – Randy Jones
Visitor Center operation is normal, not much change in numbers of visitors
Community Center booked six months into 2010
Capital projects are completed for 2008/09, will work on the outside railings
No capital improvements proposed for 2009-2010
Department of Tourism major focus this year is getting people into Southport.
There are currently eighteen (18) empty building in the downtown area. Mr.
Jones stated that the Department of Tourism and DSI is launching a campaign
promoting Southport as "A Festival for All Seasons" i.e. winter-Southport Holi-
Day, Spring-Southport Spring Festival (Easter Weekend) i.e. Chili Cook-off), A
Taste of Southport; Summer-Southport 4th of July Celebration, and Fall-
Southport Fall Festival. Mr. Jones talked about promoting Southport through
advertisement, working with Tourism Development Authority, developing a package
to give out at trade shows. Board agreed with the new concept presented by Mr.
Jones.
Alderman Fisher commented that the City should seek grants because the long-
range policy for the Community Building has never been completed i.e. all
around porch, extension of the building to the tree line which would add
another third to the building, increasing the size which would draw additional
groups for meetings and more people to the City.
Fire Department – Greg Cumbee
Greg Cumbee, Fire Chief updated the Board on Fire Department activities i.e.
equipment, statistics, fire department equipment status, inventory, immediate
inventory replacement needs, retention of volunteers, City and District Growth.
He discussed the:
·   Incentives in place to retain volunteers i.e. life insurance, physicals,
pay for structure fires, and state retirement after 20 years of service.
·   Applied for $120,000 grant to replace the 4-wheel pumper, but if not
realized this year, possibly next year.
·   County will be discussing a fire tax in February. The fire fee funds
Southport Fire Department. It is equitable because everyone pays according to
their home or property. If a fire tax is established, the County will
distribute the funds making the determination of departmental needs.
·   Alderman Adams asked about mutual aid funds and increasing other entities
contributions to the City.
·   Southport is the only municipal fire department without paid employees,
once new fire department headquarters is built, will need to hire staff to
maintain facility.
·   New fire department headquarters plans were presented and approved by the
Planning Board, next step is the bid process, which the Board has authorized
and once bids are received, they will be submitted to the Board.
·   Congressman McIntyre's representatives are working with City officials to
seek funding for the new headquarters.
·   City and District growth – As the City grows and buildings constructed, the
City will need a ladder truck. The proposed International Port may have its own
Fire Department or use Southport as first responder. There has been no concrete
discussion on the Port plans.
·   Manager Thornton stated staff has attempted to meet with Oak Island
officials to discuss the annexation and its financial impact on the City.
·   Alderman Boguskie asked about the sub-station. Chief stated Rivermist
Development does not warrant a sub-station at this time due to lack of
development. However, it is his belief that the City should pursue the land
that was promised by Jeff Earp.
Alderman Fisher stated the concept during this time was to place the water
tower behind Security Savings Bank and construct a sub-station to house rescue
and police vehicles, but the county backed out. He stated the cornerstone of
the fire program is the new fire headquarters. When the International Port was
discussed two years ago, the City offered to provide utilities and provide a
sub-station fully equipped and staffed by the Southport Fire Department. The
City offered to provide water, which is one of the reasons the City bought into
the water tank, the City asked for electricity, i.e. Brunswick and Progress
Energy.
Chief stated that there has been some talk about Progress Energy needing a
building away from their site for media relations. The new fire headquarters
could be provided which would house sleeping facilities and communications
network.
Parks & Recreation – Heather Hemphill
City Gym – Southport has the only public indoor gym in the County. A new roof
was put on four years ago; it has heat but no air conditioning. She noticed
cracks in the wall, and will have these repaired.
Steven's Park - The cost of clearing the land is $36,000-$57,000. The City does
not own a significant amount of valuable timber; therefore, there is no
significant value to help offset the cost of clearing the land.
City Manager Thornton stated that it is his belief that the City should apply
for a PARTF grant to develop Steven's Park with comprehensive amenities i.e.
larger fields, nature trails, etc. City needs to establish goals and objectives
to determine what should be included in the park i.e. feasibility study.
It was Board consensus that the Parks and Recreation Director send a needs
assessment survey to citizens to gauge public input as to the amenities that
they desire to see in Steven's Park. Ms. Hemphill stated Holland Consulting
Planners prepared a Master Plan for the City in 2006 for the Lowe-White Park
and the County's plan will work. Upon completion of the assessment survey, the
Board agreed that staff provide the Board with a conceptual idea of Steven's
Park.
Alderman Fisher suggested that a strategic plan be developed to include all
parks i.e. Kingsley, Lowe-White, Steven's Park, utilization of the Garrison
facilities i.e. the gym.
City Manager Thornton agreed that as the City grows, it should be progressive
with park and recreation facilities. Alderman Brown suggested the park be
expanded to serve all areas.
Captain Charlie Fishing Tournament Exemption – City Manager working on
exemption and consulted with Senator Soles on this matter.
Ft. Johnston – Ms. Hemphill stated since the Board decided in October not to
rent facility, staff has denied rental of the lawn because it is part of the
land conveyance by the Department of Interior, which states it is for public
recreation purposes, and if rented for private functions, it is no longer
public.
Alderman Fisher stated SHIPO do not have a problem with renting the facility
because it comes under the Parks and Recreation Department, same as other
parks.
Consensus of the Board that the City is complying with conditions in the land
conveyance.
Alderman Boguskie noted tent pegs are not allowed to be placed in the ground.
Mayor stated the City need to develop a plan for the use of the facility.
Alderman Potter agreed that the Board needs to decide the best use of the
facility and do not believe it should be tied into the Community Building.
Lowe-White Park – Staff recommended the Board reclassify the well on Leonard
from potable to non-potable water source and convert it to an irrigation well.
Board concurred with staff recommendation.
Planning Department –Amy Nelson
Amy Nelson, City Planner explained Neighborhood Conservation Overlay Districts
and the beginning stage for Southport. The majority of the report consisted of
information on two projects. First was the potential for a streetscape project
along Bay Street, particularly the section from Caswell Ave. to Yacht Basin
Dr., in which this area is relatively undeveloped. She stated that it will take
a lot of work and cooperation, including from private property owners, but it
has a lot of potential for beautifying the area with sidewalks, period
lighting, benches, and even a boardwalk over the marsh to the beach. The
project would also make it safer for pedestrians/tourists who frequent the
area. She told the Board that there are many possibilities for grants to help
with restoration of the marsh and possibly other portions of the project.
The second project was a report on the Safe Routes to School grant. A committee
has started work on the public meetings component, required by the backers of
the project (NCDOT and the federal DOT). It is hoped that the City's grant
request will be fully funded, allowing for a sidewalk to be built from
Southport Elementary School to Howe St. and/or along another road off of 9th
St.
Board members asked staff to look at parking in the right of way on Caswell
Avenue and means of improvement.
The Board liked the concept because it would be an enhancement to the City.
Public Utilities – Ralph Cardwell
Ralph Cardwell discussed with the Board:
·   Electrical Distribution System- plans are to install automatic meter
readers on residential and small commercial accounts, perform audit of security
and streetlights, perform audits of load management on all customers starting
with R-12, and continue to install reclosers at key locations for restoring
power.
Mr. Cardwell stated the project could be installed in phases for electric
meters.
Alderman Fisher stated the concept of AMR is to get approval from the Board to
compile the information and provide to the City Manager for budgeting purposes.
If the City decides to go with the AMR System, it can team up with another
agency or municipality to purchase the meters in bulk. Board agreed that Ralph
Cardwell and the City Manager develop a program for AMR for budget year 2009-
2010.
City currently auditing R-12 load management accounts, security lights and
streetlights, which should generate additional revenue for City.
Alderman Fisher stated when the load management program originally started; the
switches were put in free. The City borrowed $400,000 from the Power Agency,
repaid the loan, and had a surplus in the electric fund.
Alderman Fisher stated if the City is going to get reliability out of the
electric system, a program should be in place to sectionalize under grounding.
The City has significant line loss due to trees. Concurrence by the Board that
affordability is the issue.
Alderman Adams suggested the Electric Committee and City Manager submit a
recommendation prioritizing areas for under grounding for consideration during
budget FY 2009-2010.
Alderman Fisher stated the Electric Committee discussed the Christmas
decorations, which stopped at the junction of Moore and Howe. It is his belief
that a program should be in place to erect a Christmas tree and lights along
the river. This was discussed by the Electric Committee and they will present a
program to add bows to the wreaths, rewiring so all lights will burn
simultaneous, and the possibility of stringing lights across the street.
City Manager stated if the Board wishes to expand the lights and decorations
along the river, he would insure that it is done.
·   Wastewater System- plans are to continue design of the reversal project and
begin the bidding process, initiated inspection of grease traps and
interceptors for food preparation, need to perform cosmetic work to Bay St.
Lift Station and to continue repairing old pipes and manholes (infiltration)
City Manager stated that $3 million in grants received from CWMTF. The City
requested an amendment from Clean Water because the reversal project changed
when the agreement was entered into with the County for wastewater treatment.
The expense of project with the county is approximately $18 million of which $3
million is covered by the grant, and staff is determining how the remainder
will be paid for, therefore construction plans are complete and permits will be
obtained to be "shovel ready" if the economic stimulus package is approved.
CWMTF has requested reimbursement because the re-use site is not being used.
Staff has explained that the site will be utilized for its intended purpose and
this was discussed with the County, but it will not happen in two years. City
Manager Thornton stated the Board needs to decide on its next step, if the
agreement is signed, the City will have one (1) year to reimburse Clean Water
Management Trust.
Alderman Fisher stated the City should re-negotiate with the County and ask for
a statement stating that the spray field is part of the overall sewer system
and is essential to the City of Southport's prosperity.
Water System-install pressure reducing valve at Leonard Street, vault, replace
old galvanized pipes, remove old water tank from service, remove Leonard Street
well from emergency service (needed for park)
The Board agreed that the City water tank be left in place but taken out of
service.
·   Building and Grounds – install timers and or photo eyes on Christmas
decorations, mosquito control needs new sprayer and storage building
·   Garage – replace garage door on wash bay
·   Street Department – repair pot holes on streets, replace mission street
signs, select next road to be resurfaced
Mayor Spencer stated she would like to see all City streets paved before re-
surfacing, in addition to City Hall needing a new roof.
Police Department – Chief Jerry V. Dove
·   Communications System –Police Department dispatched through the county,
·   Traffic Enforcement- Selective enforcement program will be implemented this
year
·   Vehicles – Highway Patrol will keep vehicles longer due to the economy,
will explore leasing new vehicles
·   Personnel – Annexation will require an additional officer. Present 10 full
time with one vacancy, one reserve officer and one auxiliary
·   Equipment – excellent safety equipment, Beretta 40 cal. Weapon is no longer
being manufactured and seven years old. Will need to replace weapons.
·   Program /Goals 2009: Community policing, Youth Outreach (High Impact)
·   Grant applied for overtime t perform extra patrols
·   Implementation of S.T.O.P.P.E.D. (Sheriff and Police Telling our parents
and promoting educated drivers) a parental notification system developed to
help notify parents of young drivers involved in motor vehicle accidents.
·   Training - in service training by two training officers, community colleges
and the NC Justice Academy 
·   Criminal Investigations – new program initiated in the County called joint
criminal investigation task force to reduce property crimes in the City and
surrounding jurisdictions.
·   Other concerns: annexation and extending city limits, retention of
personnel, Clubs and bars in City limits, various city events getting bigger
·   Request two reserve officers
·   Limited office space
Southport Visioning for 2009 – City Manager
·   Fire Department Building Project – authorized to seek bids, staff and Board
waiting on financial plan. City Manager discussed various funding options, best
option is to seek money from foundations, private contributions, or a loan from
the USDA may be the best option because State and federal grants are limited.
·   Architect looking at light on Howe Street, he gave him DOT contact
information.
Mayor stated once bids are received and the financial plan presented, it will
give the Board an idea of monies needed.
·   Utilities plans, projects and policies – recommendation submitted to the
Board.
·   International Port – Manager stated his concern is there is no defined
corridor for rail or road by DOT.
General discussion took place on the Port by the Board. Mayor Spencer stated
the previous Board voted to support the Port, but there is a lot of information
to be learned. Conflicting information is being circulated; however, the Board
needs to glean as much information as possible before decisions are made.
·   Waterfront Development – Manager will provide Board a concept for
streetscape
·   FY 09-10 – Manager will begin budget preparation in February
·   Others items discussed were: elevator for City Hall, seeking property for a
new City Hall
·   Alderman Fisher asked that the budget come in within the current tax rate.
·   Mayor stated that she would like to see the space upstairs in City Hall
utilized since space is limited, and the upstairs bathrooms improved.
Adjournment – 4:00 p.m.
Meeting adjourned upon motion of Alderman Boguskie, seconded by Alderman Frink,
vote carried.
_______________________________
Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
____________________________
Regina W. Alexander, MMC
City Clerk
JANUARY 22, 2009
PUBLIC HEARING (ANNEXATION)
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN PUBLIC HEARING (ANNEXATION)
JANUARY 22, 2009  ALDERMEN CHAMBERS
6:30 P.M.         SOUTHPORT, NC
 
PRESENT:         Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
            Aldermen Paul Fisher, Nelson Adams and Richard "Ed" Boguskie
ABSENT:         Aldermen Jim Brown, Jwantana Frink and Donnie Potter
STAFF PRESENT:       Alan Thornton, City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander, Clerk
            Dale Holland, Holland Consulting Planner
OTHERS PRESENT:    Earl Clewis, Linda Pasulka, Hal Bolin, Rod Hatcher,
            Lois St.George, Tom Griffin, Louise Mead, David McVeigh
I.
Call to Order – Mayor Spencer
Pursuant to notice duly advertised and posted, Mayor Spencer called the Special
Meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
II.
Invocation
Alderman Adams pronounced the invocation.
III.
Public Hearing – 6:34 p.m.
Mayor Spencer stated that the purpose of the meeting is to receive public
comments on the proposed annexation for the North Howe Street corridor.
Alderman Boguskie motioned to enter Public Hearing, seconded by Alderman Adams,
the vote carried.
Mr. Dale Holland of Holland Consulting Planners explained that Southport under
North Carolina General Statute 160A-34 proposes to annex 174 acres along North
Howe Street. The Board adopted a Resolution of Intent November 13, 2008, which
notified residents of the City's intent. The resolution included the date of
the public information meeting and Public Hearing. Mr. Holland stated the City
has up to 90 days to adopt the ordinance, and upon adoption; one year to
implement the annexation.
Mr. Joe Pasulka of 1014 Captain Adkins Drive (Smithville Woods) told the Board
that he owns eight acres of undeveloped land behind the former Wilson's Roses
Shopping Plaza. He stated that a potential developer made an offer to purchase
the land contingent upon rezoning by the City to construct affordable housing.
The Planning Board denied the rezoning twice. He stated the City is proposing
to annex undeveloped land increasing his property taxes, but he is not allowed
to rezone and develop his property. He asked the City to work with him to
resolve this issue.
Mrs. Barbara Clewis of 1648 Howe Street, owner of a mobile home and RV Park
explained that her park houses some permanent residents. In a prepared
statement, she explained that being a small business; they cannot afford sewer
impact fees estimated at $180,000 and the required sewer connection that would
be imposed by annexation. She stated that they would be forced to close and
dislocate her residents. She asked the Board to be sensitive to the economic
impact that annexation will impose on citizens.
Verbatim Statement
Hi, I am Barbara Clewis of 1648 Howe St… Earl and I own and operate the
Woodside Trailer park. It is a small family oriented park.
We’re extremely worried because of the likelihood that we may be forced to
close our park if you enforce the current policy of the impact fees and
mandatory sewer hook up, which we’ve been led to believe that the fees would be
$180,000.00. In addition to that expense, we’d be faced with hiring an engineer
to develop a plan to run sewer lines to every lot and then have a contractor
install them. When annexation was considered in the late 80’s, we had an
estimate to have that done and it was approximately $300,000. I’m sure it would
be much more today. In addition to that, expense, we’d be required to have
every septic tank pumped out, broken up and filled with sand.
Waste Industries currently charges $250 to pump a tank. I don’t know what it
would cost to have the tanks filled with sand. Another major consideration is
our abundance of trees.
We didn’t cut down trees to make lots; we situated the lots between the trees.
Thus, some lots are bigger than others, but almost all of them have several
very old trees.
The majority of the root systems of these trees stand a chance of being damaged
and we’d possibly lose a lot of these trees. Our roads would also be damaged.
Repairing them would be another expense. We will be faced with about a half
million dollars expense.
I’ve heard some say that maybe the city could finance their fees. Financing
wouldn’t really be helpful, because it’d only make the actual cost higher.
Financing the city fees and the cost to install the sewer would actually double
or triple the original costs depending on the finance rate and the length of
the financing. This is a small park; we don’t have income like Walmart. We
wouldn’t have enough profit in our lifetime to pay this expense. It would not
be a wise financial move on our part to go forward with the park under these
circumstances. However, if we’re forced to shut the park down, we’d lose our
income. This is something we’ve worked with for 40 years. We built our home
there in 1967 and began the park shortly after that. The income from the park
was to be our retirement income.
I would respectfully ask each of you to ask yourselves if someone told you that
you would have to pay one half million dollars just to keep what you already
have, what would you do? How would you feel?
Or even place yourself in the predicament of the single-family homeowners in
the proposed area. They are going to be severely affected by this action, too,
especially the ones living on fixed incomes. In addition to the sewer impact
fee of over $8.000, they’ll have the cost of pumping and dismantling their
septic tanks and the cost of having the sewer lines run to their homes. So they
are probably facing close to $10,000 in costs just to remain living in their
home in addition to having to pay annual city taxes.
I’d just like to ask that you consider each parcel as being owned by people and
not just as a cardboard puzzle piece. I truly don’t believe that any of you
want to devastate anyone.
I understand that you are currently looking at your policies and we are
grateful that you realize that this annexation would put a burden on many of
the people involved.
We have a lot of residents in our park that are elderly and have been with us a
very long time; several of them have been here over 30 years. The closing of
our park would devastate them and the majority of our other residents. We’ve
provided a safe, happy, clean affordable place for a lot of people over the
years. If we’d asked them, (the past or current residents) they would be
storming city hall tonight with their fears, but I didn’t want to alarm them
unnecessarily. So with the exception of a few that read about the annexation in
the paper, most aren’t aware of the problems we’re facing.
If they’d be forced to leave, most of their mobile homes -because of their age-
wouldn’t be allowed in other parks in the county under the new county UDO. Can
you imagine what this would do to them? Who would pay their relocation
expenses? And as for the RV’s, there isn’t another park around this area for
them either.
We think the city wouldn’t be damaged by NOT requiring sewer connections to
existing structures. You could just require them for any new construction. Or
give everyone a choice. I don’t imagine any new construction would opt for
installing their own septic systems now if they can use city sewer.
There are many cities in N.C. that do not require mandatory sewer connections
to involuntarily annexed areas regardless of whether the lines run past their
property. Ayden is one example. The people have a choice.
People have commented to us that we should just sell out and not worry about
the annexation. We’d worry about all our residents and how it’d affect them.
We’d worry about the need for rv spaces and affordable places for people that
don’t have the means to buy a condo or home in Southport.
I ask you to remember what happened to Tom Jones when the SE Sanitary District
took his park into their district. His park was on Hwy. 211 across from the
Catholic Church. The fees and mandatory sewer hook up costs drove him out of
business. He closed his park. He was in the exact situation that we are facing.
Folks said, no worry, he can sell it. Well, it’s been for sale for a long time-
---and is still unsold.
We do have a question about the garbage collection. Currently we have a
dumpster at each end of the park. They are picked up twice weekly. I understand
that the city only offers once a week pickup. I thought that an annexation is
supposed to give us additional services, but in actuality, no one will be
getting anything they don’t already have.
Now, in probably the worst economic climate this country has faced since the
depression, I think our government should be especially sensitive to the
economic impact that every action you take will make on each individual. I
believe that you-our local government- are a governing body that is for the
people and not against the people-and that you will work to find a solution for
all of us.
We’re sensitive to your desire to expand the city limits and we ask that if you
go forward with this annexation, that you please find a way to do it without
devastating consequences to anyone in the proposed annexed areas.
Thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak.
Mr. Donald Reavis, resident of Dosher Cutoff, again questioned the reason for
annexation. He stated that there are only three houses on Dosher Cutoff that
will be affected and it is his belief that the Board should set up funds to
relocate people if the City continues with the proposed annexation.
There being no further comments, the Public Hearing was closed upon motion of
Alderman Adams, seconded by Alderman Boguskie, vote carried.
Board Comments
Alderman Adams thanked the citizens for their comments and stated the Board
understands their concerns and is sensitive to their needs.
Alderman Boguskie stated that the Board would consider all comments, and
thanked citizens for their input.
Alderman Fisher stated that he did not vote to support the annexation because
it is his belief that other areas should have been included.
Mayor Spencer stated the City needs to grow in order to survive and annexation
was not intended to be a financial burden. Staff is working to alleviate some
of the financial burden from the citizens regarding sewer impact fees.
City Manager Thornton stated annexation is never popular, but the City is
trying to establish orderly growth. Staff is working on proposals to provide
the Board with information for consideration to help relieve some of the
financial impact off the citizens.
Adjournment – 7:01 p.m.
No further business, the meeting was closed upon motion of Alderman Adams,
seconded by Aerman Boguskie, vote carried.
___________________________________
Sandra P. Spencer
Mayor
___________________________
Regina W. Alexander, MMC
City Clerk
FEBRUARY 12, 2009
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
FEBRUARY 12, 2009 ALDERMEN CHAMBERS
SOUTHPORT, N. C.  7:30 P.M.
 
PRESENT:         Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
            Aldermen Donnie Potter, Nelson Adams. James Brown,
            Ed Boguskie, Jwantana Frink and Paul Fisher
BOARD MEMBERS ABSENT:   None
STAFF:         Alan Thornton, City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander, MMC
            Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
            Amy Nelson, City Planner
            Patty Miller, Finance Officer
            Jerry Dove, Chief of Police
            Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
            Randy Jones, Director of Tourism
            Greg Cumbee, Fire Chief
            Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
            Ralph Cardwell, Director of Public Utilities
I.
Call to Order
Mayor Spencer called the meeting to order at 7:30 p.m.
II.
Invocation
Reverend Skip Williams, Pastor of Trinity United Methodist Church pronounced
the invocation.
III.
Approval of Minutes
Alderman Boguskie motioned, seconded by Alderman Brown to approve the regular
meeting minutes of January 8, retreat minutes of January 17, and special
meeting minutes of January 22, 2009. The vote was unanimous.
IV.
Approval of Agenda
Mayor asked that a Resolution in support of the Southport Maritime Museum be
added to the agenda.
Alderman Brown motioned, seconded by Alderman Potter to amend the agenda to add
Item "F" a Resolution in support of the Maritime Museum. Vote unanimous.
V.
Committee Reports
Greg Cumbee, Chief of the Fire Department, stated that they are prepared to
advertise for bids for the new fire station.
Mr. Robert Howard, Chairman of the Fire Station Committee told the Board with
the economic slow down, it is his belief that the new fire department
headquarters bids may come in 15-18% lower than anticipated. They are hoping to
obtain a loan at 1% through the USDA. He gave the Board a handout with
financing options. He stated since the inception of the fire fee, the City has
not contributed any monies from the general fund to the fire department;
however, they will need interim funding until they can get financing in place.
Brief discussion by the Board on ISO rating 4 and what is required to maintain
the rating.
Southport Fire Department
Funding and Financing Discussion Points
February 12, 2009
Assumptions:
City Assessment Value         $ 896,797,956.00
Current Ad Valorem Tax Rate         0.1800
Revenue/ $.01 assessment            89,679.80
Interest Rate on Bonds            1.000%
Financing term                20 Years
Compound Period               Annual
Project Budget               $ 5,000,000.00
         City Funding      $ 2,500,000.00
Financing Discussion Points:
Loan                  $ 2,500,000.00
Annual Payments (20 Years)            138,538.29
Tax Rate impact to property owners         0.0154      $0.1954 Revised Ad
Valorem Tax Rate
Mayor thanked Mr. Howard and Chief Cumbee for the report.
Fort Johnston Committee: Alderman Boguskie reported that the Fort Johnston
Committee met and discussed the preservation of Fort Johnston as a historical
site. The Southport Historical Society presented a proposal for a plan of
action.
VI.
Departmental Reports
Reports included in agenda packet.
VII.
New Business
a)   Electric Committee Recommendation(s)
Alderman Fisher presented the following for consideration on behalf of the
Electric Committee:
The Electric Committee met on January 7, 2009 and reviewed several options to
offset and pay for the increase from NCEMPA on the demand portion of the City’s
electric bill. This will be an overall increase of 4%, which will result in
approximately $17,000 per month. We reviewed residential and customer base
fees, customer area lighting, service charges, demand excess charges on large
commercial accounts and load management monitoring.
We make the following recommendation to the Board for approval and to become
effective February 1, 2009.
1.   Increase Residential Base Fee from $2.52 to $6.00 and increase commercial
base fee from $3.49 to $7.00. This fee is for making electric service available
to our customers and maintaining it. The City’s cost for operation &
maintenance is $25,850 a month. The availability base fee on customer meters,
with the increase, will generate revenue of $15,862. The difference is paid by
sales of electricity, service charges and area lighting fees.
2.   Increase customer area lighting fees. Majority of customers that are
paying $8.14 for a 100-watt area light will have an increase to $10.14. The
revenue generated from this is approximately $3500 a month, which assists in
the cost of the operation, & maintenance cost that the City pays, minus the
cost for kilowatts (kw) used. The monthly cost for kw for each light is
approximately $3.15.
3.   Increase Demand Excess charge from $1.00 to $4.00 on large commercial
demand accounts and impose a $2.00 excess charge on all other commercial demand
accounts. This increase helps brings the demand cost closer inline to the
actual cost the City is paying.
4.   Management and enforcement of load management customers. Making sure that
all load management switches are connected on all customers that are
participating and the proper rate is being charged. After a week of load
management audits on the R12 rate, 79% of our customers had switches that were
disconnected. This percentage will result in approximately $4,000 of recovered
loss revenue.
The overall increase in fees that the City is proposing will generate 3% of the
4% increase by the NCEMPA. The other 1% will be offset by closely monitoring
and managing the load management program.
The City will continuously review all rates, fees and the progress of the load
management audits in the Electric Fund for the next four (4) months and
recommend adjustments (-/+) as necessary.
Alderman Fisher motioned to approve the recommendations of the Electric
Committee, seconded by Alderman Boguskie. The vote was unanimous.
b)   Resolution Altering the Distribution of Southport's ABC Store Revenues
City Manager Thornton stated for 51 years, 35% of ABC revenue net profits have
been given to the three area schools: Southport Elementary -10%, South
Brunswick Middle – 10%, South Brunswick High – 10%, and 5% to Dosher Hospital,
which totaled $93,163 for FY 07-08. He explained that the City is looking at
various sources for additional revenues due to major projects that will impact
the City financially. Because of the economic slow down; the City will be
affected by a decrease in the property tax collections, state sales tax
distribution, building permits and other areas. City Manager Thornton thanked
parents and representatives from Southport Elementary School and Dosher
Hospital for being present due to their concerns about the proposed
redistribution of ABC revenues. He acknowledged that he has a vested interest
in the schools, but as City Manager, he must look out for the financial well-
being of the City in order to continue operating and providing services to the
citizens. He presented a resolution asking the Board to consider redistribution
of ABC revenues, the same as other municipalities have done including Boiling
Spring Lakes, Oak Island, Ocean Isle Beach and Shallotte.
Alderman Boguskie questioned if the City receives 100% of the net ABC proceeds,
could the City provide funds to Southport Elementary School. City Manager
Thornton stated the Board could consider allocations during the budget process.
Alderman Fisher motioned to adopt the "Resolution of the Southport Board of
Aldermen Altering the Distribution of ABC Revenue"  with the City of Southport
receiving 100% of the net profits, and to add:  2) that during the budget
process each year, the Board of Aldermen shall consider an appropriation to
Southport Elementary School to be earmarked for supplies. Alderman Brown
seconded the motion.   Discussion: Alderman Potter suggested establishing an
amount for the school. Alderman Adams stated he does not believe the governing
body should lock in a set amount because it may be contingent upon monies
received. No further comments, the vote of approval was unanimous.
RESOLUTION OF SOUTHPORT BOARD OF ALDERMEN ALTERING THE DISTRIBUTION OF ABC
REVENUE
WHEREAS, Section 6(a) of Chapter 819 of the 1957 Session Laws, as amended by
Chapter 456 House Bill 680 of the 1971 Session Laws and Chapter 1400 Senate
Bill 1472 of the 1973 Session Laws, provide for the distribution of the net
profits derived from the operation of the City of Southport ABC store; and
WHEREAS, G.S. 18B-805(e) provides that the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport may alter the distribution of net profits as established in said
local acts by the adoption of a resolution setting forth a new distribution
formula; and
WHEREAS, in order to promote the best interests of the City of Southport, the
Board of Aldermen now desires to adopt a resolution providing for a new
distribution formula for the net profits of its ABC store;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT HEREBY RESOLVED as follows:
1.   That pursuant to G.S. 18B-805(e), the City of Southport Board of Aldermen
hereby alters the distribution of the net profits of its ABC store to provide
that one hundred percent (100%) thereof shall go to the general fund of the
City of Southport.
2.   That during the budget process each year the Board of Aldermen shall
consider an appropriation to Southport Elementary School to be earmarked for
supplies.
3.   That this resolution shall become effective July 1, 2009.
This the 12th day of February, 2009.
City of Southport
/s/ Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
c)   Budget Amendments #8 and #9 FY 2008-2009
Alderman Fisher motioned to approve budget amendments #8 and #9, seconded by
Alderman Frink. Vote unanimous.
Budget Amendment # 8
Fiscal Year 2008-2009
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session February 12, 2008, that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted to adjust Departmental Budgets by 5% and put in a
Contingency Line and to adjust other line items within departments that were
over or under budget. There will be no change in the total fund budget
 
General Fund
                               Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section I
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
      See Attached
 
ADOPTED this the 12th day of February, 2009
/s/ Sandra P. Spencer
Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk to the Board of Aldermen
Budget Amendment # 9
Fiscal Year 2008-2009
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session February 12, 2008, that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted to adjust line items within the department that are over
or under budget. There will be no change in the total fund budget
 
Electric Fund
                               Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section IV
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
   See Attached
 
ADOPTED this the 12th day of February, 2009
/s/ Sandra P. Spencer
Mayor
Attest
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk to the Board of Aldermen
 
Electric Fund Description Account # Increase Decrease
 
(Mid year Line Item Telephone & Postage    30-7210-3200         $1,000.00
Adjustments)
                    Insurance & Bonding    30-7210-4500 $999.92
                    Capital Lease Payments 30-7210-7700 $0.08
 
  ELECTRIC FUND TOTALS $1,000.00 $1,000.00
 
d)   Tax Releases
Alderman Boguskie motioned, seconded by Alderman Frink to approve the following
tax releases. Vote unanimous.
 
Bill #   Name & Account # Date Amount Released Value Released Reason for
Parcel #                                                      Release
 
3390 Holt, Stephen T. 2008 tax 10.87 5,880 Boat sold April 2007
 
3482  Stephens, Williams 2008 tax 13.48  7,290   Incorrect Value
449   Carney, Patricia   2008 tax 361.51 200,840 Adjusted by Property tax
                                                 commission
390   Carney, Patricia   2007 tax 376.83 251,220 Adjusted by Property Tax
                                                 Commission
Total                             762.69
 
e)   Consideration of Re-sale of Cemetery Lot #42 to the City
Alderman Potter motioned, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to approve the re-sale
of cemetery lot #42 owned by Edward Grissetti, Sr. in accordance with Chapter
5, Section 5-2(b) of the City Code of Ordinances. The vote of approval was
unanimous.
f)   Resolution of Support for the Maritime Museum
Alderman Boguskie motioned to adopt the resolution of support for the Maritime
Museum, seconded by Alderman Adams. Vote unanimous.
RESOLUTION OF SUPPORT
N.C. Maritime Museum
WHEREAS, we appreciate the support and confidence given to the Southport Branch
of the North Carolina Maritime Museum, and
WHEREAS, the N. C. Maritime Museum at Southport has created a facility that
contributes to the educational and economic growth of Southeastern, N. C., and
WHEREAS, this historic association has expanded its development, and Friends of
the N. C. Maritime Museum, Inc. at Southport which is a non-profit support
organization which works diligently to provide financial support to the museum
for programs and exhibits, and
WHEREAS, the Maritime Museum at Southport was established in 1992, and became a
state agency in 1999, an agency of the North Carolina Department of Cultural
Resources directly under the Division of State History Museums, a component of
the Office of Archives and History, and
WHEREAS, the Maritime Museum at Southport is a teaching facility for area
schools and organizations, with 30,000+ visitors a year, and
WHEREAS, the Southport Maritime Museum is the only center in the southeastern
coastal area of N. C. that collects, preserves and displays the artifacts and
images indigenous to the maritime history and culture of the people of the
Lower Cape Fear Region.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Southport Board of Aldermen request the
State of North Carolina and the N. C. Department of Cultural Resources to do
everything within their power to keep this facility open and operating for the
enrichment of the public.
ADOPTED, this the 12th day of February 2009.
/s/ Sandra P. Spencer
Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
City Clerk
VIII.
City Manager Comments
Tree City: City Manager Thornton announced that Southport has been named a Tree
City USA community by the Arbor Day Foundation for the seventh year, honoring
its commitment to Community forestry. The City also received a Growth Award
recognizing environmental improvement and higher levels of tree care in Tree
City's USA communities. He thanked the Forestry Committee for its work in
planting and preserving trees in Southport.
Ferry Division: City Manager Thornton asked the Board to prevail upon NCDOT and
the Ferry Division asking them to reconsider eliminating four trips per day
because this will have a significant impact on the City and the local
businesses.
Planning Board: City Manager Thornton informed the Board that three terms would
be up for appointment/reappointment in March. Two in-town positions and one in-
town alternate.
UDO Text Changes: The City Manager asked the Board to consider a date to review
and discuss the UDO text amendment changes that were recommended by the
Planning Board.
Cape Fear Council of Governments: The Board was reminded of the invitation to
the Annual COG dinner scheduled March 5, 2009, 6:30 p.m. at UNCW Burney Center.
Budget FY 2009-2010: City Manager Thornton gave the Board a copy of the budget
preparation calendar for FY 2009-2010.
Coastal Insurance Issue: City Manager Thornton told the Board that he received
a letter from the Brunswick County Board of Commissioners Chairman asking the
City to join in the fight-opposing rate increases as high as 30% for coastal
communities. The City's share would be $5,000.
Delinquent Tax Listing: Mary Russ, Tax Collector, will advertise unpaid taxes
on April 8, 2009.
IX.
Other Business
Alderman Boguskie presented the Plan of Operation submitted by the Southport
Historical Society for Fort Johnston. He acknowledged Mr. Larry Maisel member
of the SHS if the Board had questions or comments.
X.
Public Comments
Mr. Bobby Hart of 925 North Howe Street explained that there has been a tire
trailer in Southport for 16 years. The County at the request of the City has
removed the trailer and placed it at the transfer station near Dosher Cutoff.
He stated that there is no place in Southport for the businesses to place their
old tires. He stated that the Code Enforcement Officer has constantly harassed
him and he asked that it be stopped.
XI.
Board Comments
Alderman Fisher asked that the dead trees and branches be removed from the
cemeteries utilizing the $3500 that was budgeted for this purpose. City Manager
Thornton stated that he would see to this matter.
Alderman Fisher informed the Board that he has received numerous calls about
"public comments" being placed at the end of the agenda. He motioned to move
the public comment section to Item # 4, which will give citizens the
opportunity to speak and leave the meeting early if they so desire. Motion
seconded by Alderman Frink. Vote unanimous. 
Alderman Boguskie informed the Board that he placed a "No Port Southport"
packet of information in their inter-office box that contains information about
ports.
Adjournment – 8:59 pm
No further business, Alderman Boguskie motioned, seconded by Alderman Frink to
adjourn the meeting. Vote unanimous.
__________________________________
/s/Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
_______________________________
/s/Regina W. Alexander, MMC
City Clerk
MARCH 12, 2009
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
MARCH 12, 2009    ALDERMEN CHAMBERS
SOUTHPORT, NC     7:30 PM
 
PRESENT:           Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
             Aldermen Donnie Potter, Nelson Adams, James Brown,
             Paul Fisher, Jwantana Frink and Ed Boguskie
BOARD MEMBERS ABSENT:   None
STAFF:          Alan Thornton, City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander, MMC, City Clerk
            Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
            Amy Nelson, Planner
            J.V. Dove, Chief of Police
            Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
            Randy Jones, Tourism Director
            Greg Cumbee, Fire Chief
            Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
            Ralph Cardwell, Director of Public Services
I.
Call to Order
Mayor Spencer called the meeting to order at 7:30 p.m.
II.
Invocation
Alderman James Brown delivered the invocation.
III.
Approval of Minutes
Mayor Spencer noted a duplicate paragraph on page 8, "Ferry Division." Alderman
Boguskie motioned for approval with the noted correction, seconded by Alderman
Frink, vote carried.
IV.
Public Comments
Mayor Spencer opened the floor for public comments.
·   Mr. Walter Madsen of 4402 Polly Gulley Court, St. James, NC representing
Friends of the N.C. Maritime Museum of Southport thanked the Board for the
Resolution of Support. He explained the Plan that was presented to the Board on
saving the Maritime Museum was developed after Southport's Museum was
identified by the Department of Cultural Resources to be closed. They were made
aware of this situation one week prior to presenting the Plan to the Board of
Aldermen. The Friends of the Museum asked the Board to lease the Davis Street
barracks for use by the NC Maritime Museum for $1 per year for ten (10) years.
It was proposed that the City relocate two (2) staff members of the Parks and
Recreation Department. He explained that the Friends of the Museum would fund
one staff position, and if granted the use of the barracks, this would save the
State $62,000 in rent. Contributors will pay the utilities, thus saving
$85,000-90,000 per year or one-half of the State's current expenditure of
$180,000. He stated if the museum were forced to close, it would affect the
economy of Southport.
Mr. Madsen stated that their local property owner is willing to reduce the
rent, but the State has said they do not want to be in a storefront building
for the long term. If the Federal Lands to Parks do not approve the lease, then
the City is out nothing; however, the City has shown their interest in keeping
the Museum in Southport. In conclusion, he asked the Board to lease the 3,000
sq. ft. Davis Street Barracks to the State for the use of the Museum and to
vote favorable on the Plan presented.
·   Mr. Cecil Frank of 503 North Atlantic Avenue asked the Board to provide
their meeting schedules to the Clerk and requested more dialogue from Board
members when voting on issues.
Several citizens echoed sentiments of support of the Maritime Museum:
·   Mr. Jim Carey of 3437 Members Club Blvd., St. James, NC
·   Mr. Jim McKee of 203 East 8th Street, Southport,
·   Mr. Jim Crum of 3218 Wexford Way, St. James, NC
·   Mr. Cecil Rhodes of 1007 Captain Adkins Drive (Smithville Woods) Southport.
·   Norman Holden of 212 Frink Drive, Southport, NC stated that the House,
Senate and Governor's budgets could include funding for the Maritime Museum. He
encouraged a letter writing campaign to the Governor and legislators in support
of the Museum.
·   Bert Felton, Caswell Avenue, Southport, NC expressed support of the Museum.
·   Nancy Harkey of 3628 Glen Eagle Drive, St. James, NC Recited a poem about
maritime history
·   Robert Howard of 114 North Atlantic Avenue, Southport encouraged supporters
and the Board to contact legislators to keep funding in the state budget for
the Museum.
V.
Public Presentation
a)   Communities in School – Cynthia Tart
Ms. Tart, Director of Communities in Schools, stated that they are a non-profit
organization initiated in 1995, which is a community-based public/private
partnership. Their focus is to help students stay in school. They provide
scholarships and enlist the help of businesses, industry, churches and civic
organizations. She also stated that Communities in Schools use the Maritime
Museum for programs and is in support of the Museum staying open.
VI.
Approval of Agenda
Alderman Fisher motioned, seconded by Alderman Adams to add solar lighting
program for the Waterfront Park to the agenda under "Item i" Vote unanimous.
VII.
Committee Reports
Included in agenda packet.
VIII.
Departmental Reports
Included in the agenda packet.
IX.
Public Hearing – Zoning Reclassification RZ 09-0107-01
Alderman Brown motioned, seconded by Alderman Fisher to enter Public Hearing to
receive public comments on zoning reclassification request for parcel
#237EB00103 south of Owens Street from multi-family (MF) to planned unit
development (PUD) for Cottage Point, LLC.
There were no public comments. Alderman Potter motioned to close the Public
Hearing and re-enter regular session. The vote was unanimous.
X.
New Business
a)   Consideration of Zoning Reclassification
Alderman Fisher motioned, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to approve the rezoning
reclassification finding that it is consistent with the City's Land Use Plan,
and is reasonable and in the public's interest since the Jonas Creek PUD will
gain additional green space, and the addition of this parcel will assist the
City with drainage. The vote was unanimous.
b)    Resolution to establish a sewer policy for prospective properties annexed
into the City
Attorney Isenberg stated that the City Code of Ordinances requires connection
to public sewer within sixty (60) days; however, there is a provision in the
City Code for special circumstances in which the Board may extend the time for
compliance or waive the provision. The Resolution to establish sewer policy for
prospective properties to be annexed because of City initiated annexation is a
special circumstance and the Board may alter the requirements. The Board
discussed the Resolution and established an installment plan for paying impact
fees upon connection to the City's Wastewater System with an interest rate of
4% annum. (See Resolution below) Attorney Isenberg stated the policy may be
amended if necessary.
Alderman Boguskie motioned, seconded by Alderman Potter to adopt the following
resolution establishing a sewer policy. Vote of approval was 5 ayes: Aldermen
Boguskie, Potter, Adams, Frink and Brown. 1 no, Alderman Fisher.
Alderman Brown motioned that one single availability fee of $40 be paid in
accordance with City policy for minimum three thousand gallons of sewer,
seconded by Alderman Potter. Vote unanimous.
RESOLUTION OF SOUTHPORT BOARD OF ALDERMEN ESTABLISHING A SEWER POLICY FOR
PROPERTIES ANNEXED INTO THE CITY BY CITY-INITIATED ANNEXATIONS
That Whereas, Section 19-99(b) of the Southport Code of Ordinances provides
that:
When a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a private
wastewater disposal system, a direct connection shall be made to the public
sewer within (60) days. Under unusual and/or special circumstances the Board of
Aldermen may extend the time of compliance or waive this provision; and
Whereas, the Board of Aldermen hereby finds and declares that a city-initiated
annexation is an unusual and special circumstance pursuant to Section 19-99 for
which the Board of Aldermen should extend the time of compliance for mandatory
sewer connection for properties involuntarily annexed into the City of
Southport which properties are already connected to a private wastewater
disposal system;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that the
following policy is hereby adopted for properties annexed into the City by
city-initiated annexation, which are connected to a private wastewater disposal
system at the time of the effective date of said annexation:
1.   Any improved property which is annexed into the City of Southport by a
city-initiated annexation proceeding and which is already connected to a
private wastewater disposal system on the effective date of said annexation
shall be allowed to continue to utilize a currently functioning and permitted
private wastewater disposal system until such time as the first of the
following events occur: (i) the private wastewater disposal system fails, or
(ii) the use of property changes to a use which would require significant
modification of the existing private system, or (iii) the ownership of the
property changes, or (iv) any environmental issue arises resulting in a
determination of private wastewater disposal system closure by the State of
North Carolina, federal government or Brunswick County. Upon the occurrence of
the first of said events, the City shall notify the property owner and said
property shall be connected to the city sewer within 60 days from notification
by City that connection is required. Connection shall be made in accordance
with the City’s policies and ordinances existing at the time of connection, and
the property owner shall pay all charges and fees in effect at said time except
as otherwise provided herein.
2.   During the period of time beginning with the effective date of annexation
(provided that city sewer is available) until such time as the annexed property
is connected to the city sewer in accordance with City policy, the owner of
said property shall be required to pay a monthly availability fee of the
minimum monthly sewer charge as established by the City.
3.   The owner of a property which is connected to a private wastewater
disposal system on the effective date of a city-initiated annexation which
requires payment at the time of connection of an impact fee of $10,000 or less
shall be allowed to pay the required impact fee for said property together with
interest at 4% annum in not more than 5 annual installments with the first
being due at the time of connection and subsequent installments being due
annually thereafter until paid. The owner of a property which is connected to a
private wastewater disposal system on the effective date of a city-initiated
annexation which requires payment at the time of connection of an impact fee of
more than $10,000 shall be allowed to pay the required impact fee for said
property together with interest at 4% per annum in not more than 20 annual
installments with the first installment being due at the time of connection and
subsequent installments being due annually thereafter until paid. The amount of
the impact fee, tap on fee and all other connection charges shall be determined
as of the city fee schedule applicable on the day of connection. The tap on fee
and any and all other connection charges shall be due and payable in full at
the time of connection.
This the 12th day of March, 2009.
City of Southport
/s/ Sandra P. Spencer
By: Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
Clerk
c)   Friends of the N. C. Maritime Museum at Southport
Mayor Spencer explained that the City cannot lease property without giving
public notice. Attorney Isenberg advised that the Board may adopt a resolution
stating the Board's intent to authorize a lease; however, the law requires ten
(10) days notice before the lease can be authorized, published in the newspaper
and adopted at a regular board meeting.
Mayor Spencer stated that Alderman Boguskie, City Manager Thornton and herself
met with the Secretary of Cultural Resources in support of the Maritime Museum
and encouraged the Board to do whatever is within its power to help the Museum
remain open.
Mr. Walt Madsen in answer to a question from Alderman Boguskie explained if the
Board leases the property to the Museum; it will remain City property and
revert to the City if the State decides in the future to close the Museum.
Alderman Fisher read an excerpt from a letter submitted by Eddie Howard,
Chairman of the Parks & Recreation Advisory Committee. "The City of Southport's
Recreation Advisory Committee supports the efforts of the N.C. Maritime Museum
in Southport but respectfully request that all options be explored before a
decision is made that will result in the loss of programs offered to the public
by the Parks and Recreation Department due to a loss of the use of this
facility."
Alderman Fisher stated that he would work to keep the Museum open should the
State cut funding. He presented the following questions to Friends of the
Museum:
·   Has the Museum received in writing a short or long-range plan from the
State for the N.C. Museum at Southport?
·   What other options including political have been explored to save the
museum, other than the plans presented?
·   What alternatives have been investigated for the plans submitted, and
·   Has any employee or official of Southport offered the use of Fort Johnston
without the approval of the Board?
Alderman Boguskie stated when he spoke in support of the Museum, it was
understood that he was not speaking for the Board of Aldermen.
Alderman Brown stated he supports the Museum and will work to save it, but
would like every avenue explored i.e. the Governor's, Senate and House budgets
to continue funding for the Museum.
Alderman Adams stated he supports the Museum, but will not vote to displace the
Parks and Recreation Department's programs or employees.
Mayor stated if the Board decides that it will lease the property, the City
would need a commitment from the State that the Museum will continue to
operate. Consideration needs to be given to relocating employees and programs
that serve children in the community, a commitment from the Museum or Friends
of the Museum and the State, that all renovations would be paid for by them
including operating expenses and insurance. The Senior Citizen Building may be
available but not in time to accommodate the needs of the City. She stated that
all factors must be considered including permission from the Federal Lands to
Parks Program to lease the building.
Mayor Spencer presented a letter from the Southport Oak Island Chamber of
Commerce in support of the Maritime Museum.
Alderman Frink stated her support of the Museum; however, as a member of the
Parks and Recreation Committee she supports their programs and believes the
Board should discuss this more in-depth before making a decision.
The City Manager added that blame is being placed on the City because of a
fiscal issue that the City has no control over and the Department of Cultural
Resources will make the final decision. The City supports the Museum, however
time is needed to make decisions and develop plans. He explained that the Parks
and Recreation Department has its programs scheduled for the summer. He
reiterated that the Maritime Museum is an asset to the City, but whatever
directives the Board gives, staff will adjust.
Alderman Potter stated his support, realizing also that the Parks and
Recreation programs are scheduled. He stated that his preference would be to
pass a resolution of support with the Maritime Museum remaining in Southport,
not naming a specific location while an alternative solution is explored.
Alderman Boguskie motioned to adopt a resolution of the Board's intent to
authorize the lease of Davis Street apartments at $1.00 annually for a term not
to exceed ten (10) years at the next regular meeting of the Board, seconded by
Alderman Potter. Discussion: Attorney Isenberg stated before property can be
leased; a ten (10) day notice must be given in the newspaper. Alderman Brown
suggested the resolution state that the Board is in favor of the museum and
will investigate all avenues and work toward finding the best solution for
location of the museum, while contacting the Department of Interior about
leasing the building. Alderman Fisher stated the budget is being worked now, if
delayed for thirty (30) days, nothing is being accomplished. If the Friends of
the Museum and others go to Raleigh or invite legislative officials to a town
meeting and write letters, nothing has been accomplished.
Mayor Spencer called for the vote: 5 ayes, Aldermen Adams, Potter, Brown, Frink
and Boguskie. 1 no, Alderman Fisher.
Alderman Adams asked that an informational meeting be held before April's
meeting.
d)   Resolution Supporting Legislative Initiative to Delay Implementation of
Beach Plan/Fair Plan Coastal Insurance Increases
Mr. Thornton explained that the Department of Insurance has considered
increasing homeowners insurance in coastal areas up to thirty percent (30%). He
asked that the Board adopt a resolution establishing the City's position by
joining with others to request the General Assembly to delay a decision on this
matter until additional information is compiled.
Alderman Brown motioned to adopt the Resolution supporting legislative
initiatives to delay implementation of the Beach Plan/Fair Plan Coastal
Insurance increases, seconded by Alderman Boguskie. Amendment: Alderman Fisher
asked that the resolution be amended to include, if the Plan does go into
effect that the homeowners be allowed to make installment payments. The vote
was unanimous.
RESOLUTION
In Support of Legislation Delaying The Implementation of the Rate Increases in
Home Insurance
Whereas, recent actions by the North Carolina Insurance Commission has resulted
in disproportionate rate increases under the Beach and the F.A.I.R. Plans, and
Whereas, the swift inception of rate increases does not provide adequate notice
or time to adjust to the increases, and
Whereas, the rate payers in coastal counties are perplexed as to the
justification of these rate hikes, and
Whereas, issues of this magnitude could be examined for underlying reasons that
may be related to the history of loss, anticipation of loss or the real reasons
for loss, and
Whereas, looking into the issues for the real reasons of the acute increases
would be to our advantage.
Now, therefore the Southport Board of Aldermen resolves to join in with the
Brunswick County Board of Commissioners in efforts seeking a postponement of
the rate increases until such time as explicit and credible evidence becomes
available showing that the rate increases are based upon factual loss in the
coastal regions.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that if these rate increases go into effect that
homeowners be allowed to make installment payments on their homeowners'
insurance premiums.
Adopted this the 12th day of March 2009.
/s/Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
Attest:
/s/Regina W. Alexander, MMC
e)   Budget Amendments #10, 11, 12
Alderman Fisher motioned, seconded by Alderman Frink to approve budget
amendments 10, 11, and 12. Vote carried.
Budget Amendment # 10
Fiscal Year 2008-2009
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session March 12, 2009, that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted to adjust line items within the department that are over
or under budget. There will be no change in the total fund budget
Electric Fund
                                  Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section IV
A.   Revenue Anticipated
   Sale of Electricity         381,780
   Underground Services        50,000
   Misc. Income                720              7,098,344
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
      Health Insurance      7000
      Professional Fees     (7000)
      Power Purchase        350,000
      Utility Sales Tax     22,000
      Underground Services  50,000
      System Maintenance Con10,500           7,098,344
 
ADOPTED this the 12th day of March, 2009
/s/ Mayor Sandra P Spencer 
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk to the Board of Aldermen
Budget Amendment # 11
Fiscal Year 2008-2009
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session March 12, 2009, that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted to adjust line items within the department that are over
or under budget. There will be no change in the total fund budget
 
Water/Sewer Fund
                               Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section V
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
      Health Insurance   6000
      Professional Fees  (6000)           2,943,200
 
ADOPTED this the 12th day of March, 2009
/s/ Mayor Sandra P Spencer 
Attest:  
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk to the Board of Aldermen
Budget Amendment # 12
Fiscal Year 2008-2009
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session March 12, 2009, that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted to adjust line items within the department that are over
or under budget. There will be an increase in the total fund budget
 
General Fund
                               Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section I
A.   Revenue Anticipated
   Brunswick County for Resc3400
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
      See Attached
 
ADOPTED this the 12th day of March, 2009
/s/ Mayor Sandra P Spencer 
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk to the Board of Aldermen
f)   Tax Releases
Alderman Fisher motioned seconded by Alderman Brown to approve tax releases,
vote carried.
 
Bill/Parcel#  Name           Date   Amt Released Value           Reason
237LI033 thru Marina Village 3/1/09 $5,216.32    175,000         Double Billing
237LI048                                         (Release 16x's)
3471          Cameron Smith  3/1/09 15.19        8,155           Sold Boat 10/
                                                                 2007
3472          Cameron Smith  3/1/09 15.33        8,230           Sold Boat 10/
                                                                 2007
              Pleasant Oaks                                      Not a
2042          LLC            3/1/09 7.70         5,130           rentalNon-
                                                                 furnished
Total                               $5,254.54
 
g)   Resale of Cemetery Lot #499
Alderman Fisher motioned, seconded by Alderman Brown to approve the resale of
Northwood Cemetery lot #499 owned by Randy Ellis to the City in accordance with
Chapter 5, Section 5-2(b) of the City Code of Ordinances. Vote unanimous.
h)   Arbor Day Proclamation
Alderman Fisher motioned, seconded by Alderman Frink to adopt the following
Proclamation in recognition of Arbor Day. Vote carried
ARBOR DAY PROCLAMATION
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/IMAGES/0-0-0-46.jpg]
WHEREAS, in 1972, J. Sterling Morton proposed to the Nebraska Board of Agriculture that a special day be
set aside for the planting of trees, and
WHEREAS, this holiday called Arbor Day , was first observed with the planting of more than a million trees
in Nebraska, and
WHEREAS, Arbor Day is now observed throughout the nation and the world, and
WHEREAS, trees can reduce the erosion of our precious topsoil by wind and water, cut heating and cooling
costs, moderate the temperature, clean the air, produce life-giving oxygen, and provide habitat for
wildlife, and
WHEREAS, trees are a renewable resource giving us paper, wood for our homes, fuel for our fires, and
beautify our community, and
WHEREAS, trees in our city increase property values, enhance the economic vitality of business areas, and
beautify our community, and
WHEREAS, trees wherever they are planted are a source of joy and spiritual renewal.
NOW, THEREFORE,  I Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor of the City of Southport, N.C. do hereby proclaim March 20,
2009 as ARBOR DAY in the City and urge all citizens to celebrate and support efforts to protect our trees
and woodlands, and
FURTHER, I urge all citizens to plant trees to gladden the heart and promote the well-being of this and
future generations.
DATED, this 12th day of March, 2009.
/S/ Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/IMAGES/0-0-0-
48.jpg]                                       [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/IMAGES/0-0-0-50.jpg]
 
i)   Solar Lighting Project – Southport Waterfront
Alderman Fisher stated that he discussed the solar lighting project for the
waterfront park during the Board's Retreat. He explained that Brunswick
Electric has a consultant on staff, and in discussion with Congressman
McIntyre's representative and Progress Energy, they would like to see a plan of
the project. He motioned to authorize the expenditure of $2,000 from the
electric fund to draft a Solar Lighting Plan, seconded by Alderman Brown.
Discussion: Alderman Adams recommended the $2000 be allocated in the budget. No
further discussion, 5 ayes, Aldermen Fisher, Potter, Brown, Boguskie and Frink.
1 no, Alderman Adams.
XI.
City Manager Comments
Mr. Thornton told the Board that three terms expire on the Planning Board in
March and these vacancies would be placed on the April agenda.
XII.
Other Business
None
XIII.
Board Comments
Alderman Frink questioned the next step in assisting the Maritime Museum.
City Manager Thornton stated staff would begin reviewing options to have
available upon a decision by the Board.
The Board scheduled Saturday, March 21, 8:00 a.m. for a work session.
Alderman Boguskie recommended a workshop be scheduled with Dale Holland to
discuss the UDO text amendments. City Manager Thornton will contact Mr.
Holland.
XIV.
Closed Session – N.C.G.S.§ 143-318.11 (a) (3) – 9:45 p.m.
Alderman Frink motioned, seconded by Alderman Adams to enter closed session to
discuss a pending lawsuit. Vote unanimous.
Regular Session - 10:00 p.m.
Alderman Potter motioned, seconded by Alderman Frink to re-enter regular
session. Vote unanimous.
In regular session, Mayor Spencer announced that the Board discussed the
pending lawsuit.
XV.
Adjournment – 10:02 p.m.
No further business, motion by Alderman Frink, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to
adjourn, vote carried.
______________________________
Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
_________________________________
Regina W. Alexander, MMC
City Clerk
MARCH 21, 2009
SPECIAL MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN SPECIAL MEETING
MARCH 21, 2009    ALDERMEN CHAMBERS
SOUTHPORT, NC     8:00 A.M.
 
PRESENT:         Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
            Aldermen Nelson Adams, Donnie Potter, Ed Boguskie,
            Jwantana Frink, James Brown and Paul Fisher
ABSENT:         None
STAFF:         Alan Thornton, City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander, City Clerk
            Heather Hemphill, Parks and Recreation Director
            Ralph Cardwell, Director of Public Services
I.
Call to Order
Mayor Spencer convened the meeting at 8:04 a.m.
II.
Invocation
Alderman Brown pronounced the invocation.
III.
Discussion of the NC Maritime Museum in Southport
Mayor Spencer acknowledged a letter from Stuart Callari and requested that it
be incorporated in the minutes.
Mayor Spencer stated that she was informed that the Governor's budget includes
funding for the Southport Maritime Museum, but there were no monies allocated
for a location.
Mr. Walter Madsen, Friends of the Museum, told the Board he spoke with Mr. Joe
Schwartzer, State Director of the NC Maritime Museums and explained the time
frame that the Board was under due to the summer schedule of the Parks and
Recreation Department. He stated if the Board of Aldermen elected to approve
the Friends of the Maritime Museum's Plan, the Parks and Recreation Department
could stay in place through the month of September.
Alderman Boguskie informed the Board of a meeting scheduled April 1 with
Senator Soles, Secretary of the Department of Cultural Resources, and Friends
of the Museum. He stated representatives from the City should attend.
Alderman Fisher recommended the Board invite Senator Soles, Representatives
Stiller and Hill to Southport for a Town Hall meeting.
Wayne Strickland, speaking on behalf of the Friends of the Museum asked that a
timeline be provided as to what is expected if the City allows use of the
property. Friends of the Museum have received a guarantee from the Department
of Cultural Resources that they would not need to relocate until the end of
summer, which would give the Recreation Department sufficient time for their
summer programs.
Alderman Adams questioned whether the Friends of the Museum contacted
legislative representatives to ask for support, and questioned whether they
looked for alternative locations. He stated his opposition to a ten-year lease
and relocating the Parks and Recreation Department.
Mr. Strickland stated that they have looked at other locations, but their
desire is to remain downtown. He communicated that the Department of Cultural
Resources does not wish the Museum to remain in a storefront facility.
Heather Hemphill, Director of Parks and Recreation shared with the Board that
she is concerned about the summer programs. She stated losing the Davis Street
facility would affect her programs and some of these programs cannot be placed
in another location. The Senior Citizen Building that was discussed will
require renovations. The department needs a facility with more than office
space. She expressed concern that the City gym is not air-conditioned.
Alderman Fisher questioned the State's plan for the Museum and explained the
City developed a long-range plan for Ft. Johnston, which was based on Lowe-
White Park being completed, which has been pushed back three years.
Mr. Strickland questioned why the Davis Street apartments at Fort Johnston are
the best location for Parks and Recreation with no handicap accessibility.
Mayor Spencer stated the Board called this meeting to discuss the possibility
of leasing the Davis Street apartments to the Maritime Museum. The City needs
to focus on helping the Maritime Museum survive and to keep the Parks and
Recreation programs viable.
Alderman Brown stated the Board should first contact the Department of Interior
to ascertain if leasing the facility is viable, schedule a meeting with
legislative officials to investigate funding for the Museum, and to receive
comments from the citizens of Southport. He cited some relocation options that
can be explored, i.e. fire station and visitor's center. The Board needs time
to look at options, because the City cannot displace one department for another
agency.
Alderman Boguskie suggested City representatives attend the meeting in Raleigh
on April 1 and afterwards, schedule a public meeting.
Alderman Potter stated both the Museum and Recreation Department benefits the
City and hope a decision can be forthcoming to satisfy everyone.
Mayor Spencer asked the Board to consider directives or alternatives for the
next meeting.
Ms. Roberta Dosher, member of the Parks and Recreation Department stated that
she is in favor of the Maritime Museum; but the City should abide by the
agreement that was approved when Fort Johnston was acquired by the City.
Pursuant to a question from Alderman Fisher, Mr. Strickland stated that they
prefer to stay in the present location, but the State does not want the Museum
in a storefront building. A permanent site is preferable. Alderman Fisher spoke
about the fund raising strategies that were used to raise monies for the
Community Building and the same mechanism could possibly work to assist the
Maritime Museum, but everyone must work together.
Alderman Boguskie motioned, seconded by Alderman Potter to follow-up with
Senator Soles and the Department of Cultural Resources concerning the April 1
meeting in Raleigh. Votes were 5 ayes Alderman Boguskie, Potter, Brown, Adams
and Frink. 1 no, Alderman Fisher.
Alderman Frink motioned, seconded by Alderman Brown to schedule a Town Hall
meeting April 3, 6:00 p.m. subsequent to the meeting in Raleigh on April 1, and
to invite Senator R. C. Soles, Representatives Stiller and Hill. The vote was
unanimous.
IV.
Clean Water Management Trust Fund Proposed Amendment #1 to Project No. 2006A-
529
City Manager Thornton stated the City received two grants from CWMTF, $1.68
million to purchase the spray irrigation site near Sunny Point. Second grant
was for the infrastructure to get wastewater out of the waterway by 2011. When
the City decided to join with the County, the State realized that the site
would not be utilized as originally planned; however, the City did discuss use
of the site by the County, which will possibly take place in the future, but
not soon enough for the CWMTF Board. The Clean Water Management Trust Board
sent an amendment to the City stating that in order for the City to receive the
remainder of the $3 million grant, the City will need to pay back the $1.68
million.
City Manager Thornton stated approximately $2.5 million remains of the $3
million because a portion of the money has been spent for design drawings and
surveys. Staff requested directives from the Board because the City has 365
days from the date that the Board agrees to the terms of the amendment to remit
the money. If the $1.68 is not returned, then the City will not receive the
balance of the $2.5 to complete the sewer reversal project.
City Manager Thornton stated the City owns the 400-acre site near Sunny Point,
which is ideal for a spray irrigation complex, and when the county builds the
Southeast Wastewater Treatment Plant, the City could possibly negotiate with
the County to use its site and recover some of the costs.
City Manager Thornton in answer to questions stated the City needs the money to
continue with the sewer reversal project; however, the City will request to pay
it back in installments because there is the possibility the property will be
used for its intended purpose.
Ralph Cardwell, Public Services Director stated the City has two valuable
pieces of property, the 400-acre tract near Sunny Point and the land where the
Waste Water Treatment Plant is located at the end of West West Street. He
stated once the WWTP is dismantled, the Board could sell the land with an
option to lease it back. He stated that he has been contacted about the land.
The Board discussed various options and what could be done i.e. considering
selling property to raise monies to pay back the grant.
Alderman Potter motioned, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to direct staff to
contact the Clean Water Management Trust to pursue options to pay the $1.68
million back in installments, and to request an extension of time, and further;
to investigate options to sell land with the understanding that the City will
have options to lease the property, however the City would retain the 400 acres
near Sunny Point. Discussion: Alderman Fisher recommended staff continue to
negotiate not having to repay the $1.68 million. The vote of approval was
unanimous.
V.
Other Business
City Manager Thornton announced that Town Hall Day is May 6, Raleigh, NC.
City Manager Thornton stated that staff would explore options and make every
effort to provide services when a decision is made regarding the Maritime
Museum.
Mayor Spencer stated the Senior Citizen building will soon be vacated and the
City needs to decide the best use for the building.
Mayor Spencer announced that Relay for Life is the first weekend in May 1. She
and her family will be having a Yard Sale April 18 to raise funds in support of
this worthy cause.
By consensus, the Board agreed to hold a public meeting on April 3, 6:00 p.m.
and to invite Representatives Hill, Stiller and Senator R.C. Soles.
Alderman Fisher suggested the Board look at developing a strategic plan for the
City because of the number of outstanding projects that are pending.
Alderman Adams requested the City Hall restroom upstairs be remodeled i.e. new
fixtures.
Mayor Spencer informed the Board that McClure Design and Building Contractor of
Acworth, Ga. was the low bidder for the fire station in the amount of
$3,293,000.
Alderman Potter stated a proposal should be presented from the Fire Committee
before the Board votes on the bids in order to determine financing options and
a repayment plan.
Alderman Fisher noted that the City gym was built in 1951-52 and only one-half
of the gym remains.
VI.
Adjournment – 10:45 a.m.
No further business, meeting adjourned upon motion of Alderman Potter, seconded
by Alderman Brown. Vote carried.
__________________________________
Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
_________________________________
Regina W. Alexander, MMC-City Clerk
MARCH 31, 2009
SPECIAL MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
MARCH 31, 2009    ALDERMEN CHAMBERS
SOUTHPORT, N.C.   4:00 P.M.
 
PRESENT:            Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
            Aldermen Donnie Potter, Ed Boguskie, Paul Fisher,
            James Brown, Jwantana Frink
ABSENT:         Alderman Nelson Adams
STAFF PRESENT:      Alan Thornton, City Manager
               Regina W. Alexander, MMC-City Clerk
I.
Call to Order – 4:00 p.m.
Mayor Spencer called the meeting to order at 4:07 p.m.
II.
Invocation
Alderman Brown pronounced the invocation.
III.
Resolution – Federal Stimulus Monies
City Manager Thornton asked the Board to adopt a resolution because the City is
making application for funding through the American Recovery and Reinvestment
Act. He stated that the City needs to be "shovel ready" when funding becomes
available. The City is applying for stimulus funds for its sewer reversal
project. If funds were awarded to the City, it would be a 50% grant and 50%
loan. Of the $2.8 billion in requests for stimulus monies, there is only $76
million available for wastewater projects. The first round of funds in category
one will be issued on or about June 1, and the second round in the July-August
timeframe.
Carter Hubard, Consulting Engineer stated the projected schedule is to begin
construction in the fall of 2009 and the project will take approximately one
year to complete.
Alderman Boguskie motioned, seconded by Alderman Potter to approve the
resolution and to authorize the City Manager and Mayor to sign it. The vote of
approval was unanimous.
Alderman Fisher suggested the Board give the City Manager and Mayor discretion
to sign resolutions for stimulus monies if the need arises, since the timeframe
is tight when applying for these funds. Mayor Spencer and City Manager Thornton
stated that they did not see the need for the resolution at this time.
IV.
Adjournment – 4:28
No further business, the meeting adjourned upon motion of Alderman Fisher,
seconded by Alderman Potter, the vote was unanimous.
__________________________
Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
_______________________
Regina W. Alexander, MMC
APRIL 3, 2009
SPECIAL MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
APRIL 3, 2009     ALDERMEN CHAMBERS
SOUTHPORT, N.C.   6:00 P.M.
 
PRESENT:         Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
            Alderman Donnie Potter, Ed Boguskie, Paul Fisher,
            Nelson Adams, James Brown and Jwantana Frink
ABSENT:          None
STAFF PRESENT:      Alan Thornton, City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander, MMC-City Clerk
I.
Call to Order
Mayor Spencer called the meeting to order at 6:03 p.m.
II.
Invocation
Alderman Adams pronounced the invocation.
III.
Town Hall Meeting
Mayor Spencer stated the purpose of the meeting is to address issues regarding
the Maritime Museum.
City Manager Thornton briefed the Board on the meeting in Raleigh, which was
attended by him and four (4) members of the Board with Senator R. C. Soles,
Representative Stiller, Secretary Carlisle, Department of Cultural Resources
and others. Mr. Thornton stated that the legislative representatives support
the Maritime Museum and expressed that it remains open. Secretary Carlisle told
them that Governor Perdue expects vertical cuts in State departmental budgets
and she is seeking ways to comply; therefore ultimately proposing to cut $50-
$60,000 from the Southport Maritime Museum. Mr. Thornton stated in gleaning
information from the meeting, the Department of Cultural Resources is not an
advocate one way or another as to whether the Maritime Museum locates in the
Fort Johnston barracks; or if they remain downtown in their present location.
The Department of Cultural Resources are looking at ways to cut their budget
and are open to options. The State is looking for the best long-term solution,
which is to have a State owned facility in Southport. It was his belief that
those in attendance were advocating for a nice Museum comparable to those in
Beaufort and Cape Hatteras, and that the level of support be consistent and
equal amongst the three Maritime Museums. Once the Department of Cultural
Resources formulates a long-term goal, then supporters of the Museum should
contact legislators asking for support and request appropriations in future
budgets.
Representative Stiller stated that all Museums should share the reduction, not
only Southport. Tommy Harrelson proprietor of the building where the museum is
currently housed, stated his willingness to work with the Museum and make some
concessions regarding the rent. City Manager Thornton stated those in
attendance demonstrated a willingness to do what they could to keep the doors
of the museum open. Secretary Carlisle informed them that no decisions would be
made until September. This should allow sufficient time to develop a plan. Mr.
Thornton stated that it is his belief that the barracks are not a permanent
solution; however, the Museum is intrinsic to Southport and nobody wants to see
it gone.
Mayor Spencer stated the legislators were in support of the Museum remaining in
Southport and she expressed this to Secretary Carlisle.
Alderman Fisher stated that there is no operational plan in place and believes
that there should be one developed by the State to keep the Museum open.
Supporters should continue lobbying the State for funding.
Alderman Frink agreed that a plan is needed and use of the barracks will only
be a band-aid fix.
Alderman Boguskie stated that Dr. Crow, made it known that one of his long-
range plans is to acquire a building for the Southport Museum. He agreed that a
plan is needed at the State level, but in the interim, something needs to be
decided to help the Museum.
Mayor Spencer stated that 78% of the artifacts contained in the Museum are
ready to be turned over to the State, which has been an issue, in addition to
the State not owning the building.
Stuart Callari of 106 W. Nash Street voiced her support of the Maritime Museum.
She asked if the Maritime Museum is placed in the Davis Street Barracks, where
will the City place the Parks and Recreation Department. It is her belief that
a plan needs to be developed by the State for the Museum. If the Museum is
placed in the barracks, it will set a bad precedent because Southport deserves
a first-rate State Museum. She encouraged the Friends of the Museum to lobby
Raleigh for funding because after all, the Southport Maritime Museum is a State
facility.
Mr. Jim Carey of 3437 Members Club Blvd, St. James, and representing Friends of
the Maritime Museum stated that they have a plan in place, but the State does
not. It is their belief that the band-aid fix will work until plans are
developed by the State, which will take longer to develop. The Friends
currently have a plan for renovations to the barracks. They need the help of
the City to find a location for the Museum until a long term Plan is developed
by the State. If a location is not found prior to Labor Day, the Museum may
cease to exist.
Alderman Adams reiterated his support of the Museum; however, he stated that
the Board needs to be aware of problems it will incur to help another agency
including financial responsibility when their first obligation should be to the
City and its departments. He stated that ten (10) years is a long time to enter
into a lease with any agency. He asked the Board to be careful of problems that
will be placed upon the City when trying to help another agency.
Alderman Boguskie stated ten years is the maximum for a lease and the State can
sever a lease. He agreed that the City must look out for the Parks and
Recreation Department, but this should be a decision by the City Manager since
City employees work for the Manager.
Alderman Adams stated the City Manager works for the Board, which gives him
directives and a decision of this significance, should be a Board decision.
Alderman Frink questioned why the Museum could not remain in its present
location if the proprietor is willing to work with them regarding the rent.
Alderman Fisher stated that the Parks and Recreation Department has been in
transit for the past four years. The youth are the backbone of the City and
questioned if the barracks are the best location for a Museum. He suggested
asking the County for financial support.
Mayor Spencer explained that the States does not want to pay rent; Secretary
Carlisle indicated that if someone were willing to pay the rent, the Department
of Cultural Resources would continue to pay staffs' salaries.
Alderman Brown stated that apparently, the State desires a first class Museum,
and it is his belief that the City should not displace people.
Alderman Potter stated the State is responsible for the Museum and believes
what is happening with the Museum is a disservice to the Community. He stated
until the State acknowledges to what extent it is willing to make a commitment,
this places the City in an awkward position. He questioned if the State decides
not to fund the Museum, what happens? Board consensus is to keep the Museum in
Southport.
Alderman Potter motioned, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to establish a
Committee comprised of the City Manager, members from the Friends of the Museum
and Aldermen to find a solution to locate a facility for the Maritime Museum.
Discussion: Alderman Adams suggested that Aldermen Boguskie, Frink and Fisher
serve as representatives from the Board. The vote of approval was unanimous.
Adjournment – 6:55 p.m.
No further business, meeting adjourned upon motion of Alderman Potter, seconded
by Alderman Adams, vote carried.
_____________________________________
Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
___________________________________
Regina W. Alexander, MMC
City Clerk
APRIL 9, 2009
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING
APRIL 9, 2009     ALDERMEN CHAMBERS
SOUTHPORT, N. C.  7:30 P.M.
 
PRESENT:         Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
            Aldermen Nelson Adams, Donnie Potter, James Brown
            Ed Boguskie, Jwantana Frink and Paul Fisher
BOARD MEMBERS ABSENT:   None
STAFF PRESENT:       Alan Thornton, City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander, MMC, City Clerk
            Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
            Amy Nelson, Planner
            Ralph Cardwell, Public Services
            Patty Miller, Finance
            Randy Jones, Tourism
            Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation
            Wayne Strickland, Inspections
            Jerry Dove, Police Chief
I.
Call to Order – 7:30 p.m.
Mayor Spencer called the meeting to order at 7:35 p.m.
II.
Invocation
Rev. Dr. Gonzalez Harris, Pastor of St. James AMEZ Church gave the invocation.
III.
Approval of Minutes
Alderman Fisher motioned, seconded by Alderman Frink to approve the regular
meeting minutes of March 12. The vote was unanimous.
IV.
Public Comments
James Powell of 6010 Spikerush Trail Southport, spoke in support of building a
new fire station.
Marion Martin, North Lord Street, Southport spoke in support of the Maritime
Museum as a part of the community and the City's heritage.
Mr. Earl Clewis of 1648 North Howe Street requested the Board grant him the
same consideration as Progress Energy in not being annexed into the City. He
stated if he is not allowed to repair his septic system when a problem occurs,
he would be forced to hook-on to the City's sewer, and then his park would
cease to exist.
James Dellinger of 1648 North Howe Street, a resident of Woodside Trailer Park
asked the Aldermen to look into their heart to determine if fairness is applied
to annexing the Woodside Trailer Park, which is home to veterans, retirees and
others. If the Park shuts down, Southport will lose revenues generated from
electric, food and other areas.
V.
Approval of Agenda
Alderman Fisher motioned, seconded by Alderman Brown to amend the agenda to
include a Resolution opposing the modernization of the ABC System through SB
839 and HB 768 under New Business as Item "f". Vote carried.
Alderman Fisher asked that the Board consider increasing the accommodations tax
which is currently three-cents at the May meeting.
VI.
Committee Reports
Reports included in agenda packet.
VII.
Departmental Reports
Reports included in agenda packet.
Chief Dove reported that the Police Department was awarded a grant to fund the
Youth Impact Program for 2009-2010. A Block Grant was also received to pay
overtime for added enforcement. He asked the Board to consider approving the
COPS grant application located in the agenda packet that will provide two
officers for three years, including salary and benefits.
VIII.
New Business
a)   Consideration of Resolution Amending Annexation Report.
Attorney Isenberg requested the resolution amending the annexation report be
approved which reflects the change in the sewer hook-up policy and minor
technical corrections in the legal description.
Alderman Brown motioned to adopt the Resolution Amending the Annexation Report
to include the areas noted by Alderman Fisher as an amendment to the motion,
seconded by Alderman Potter. Discussion: Alderman Fisher commented on the
following areas and recommended these changes be incorporated in the report as
an amendment.
·   Appendix 4, 1st paragraph, rules to define private wastewater system, need
definition. Attorney Isenberg stated that this was passed as the current City
policy. Alderman Fisher also noted on Page 16 stated under the electric
portion, all annexed areas are not served by the City and the Parks and
Recreation is not housed in the City gym.
The vote of approval was unanimous.
RESOLUTION OF SOUTHPORT BOARD OF ALDERMEN AMENDING ANNEXATION REPORT
WHEREAS, after a full and thorough review and discussion regarding the report
of plans for extending services to the area being considered for annexation,
the Board of Aldermen did on November 13, 2008, approve the Annexation Plan and
Report North Howe Street Area; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to and in furtherance of said report and in accordance with
state law, the City did hold a public informational meeting on January 5, 2009,
and a public hearing on January 22, 2009, to hear comments and questions
regarding said report and the proposed annexation; and
WHEREAS, after careful consideration of all questions and comments received and
after further discussion and deliberation regarding said report, it now appears
to the Board of Aldermen that said report should be amended to correct the
written legal description and to more accurately reflect the policy of the City
regarding sewer extension in city-initiated annexation;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT HEREBY RESOLVED that the Annexation Plan and Report
North Howe Street Area adopted on November 13, 2008, be and is hereby amended
as follows:
1.   The description of the annexation area as set forth in the Resolution of
Intent in Appendix II of said report is hereby amended to read as follows:
See Exhibit A attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
2.   Section III.G.2, pages 11 and 12, of said report is hereby amended to read
as follows:
See Exhibit B attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
3.   Section III. H., page 13, of said report is hereby amended to read as
follows:
See Exhibit B attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
4.   In Section IV. D. 2 Electric Service, page 16, the second sentence is
hereby amended to read as follows: “Electric service is provided on the basis
of districts, and most of the properties located within the proposed annexation
area are currently served by the city’s system.”
5.   In Section IV. F. Parks and Recreation, page 16, the following words are
hereby deleted from the first sentence of the second paragraph: “(houses the
Parks and Recreation Staff)”.
6.   Appendix IV, as set forth on Exhibit C attached hereto and incorporated
herein by reference, is hereby added to said report.
This the 9th day of April, 2009.
City of Southport
/s/ Sandra P. Spencer
BY: Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/Regina W. Alexander, Clerk
b)    Consideration of an Ordinance to Extend the Corporate Limits of the City
of Southport Under the Authority Granted by Chapter 160A, Article 4A, Part 2 of
the North Carolina General Statutes.
Mr. Dale Holland stated the Board has followed all procedures and the final
step is adoption of the ordinance based on the annexation plan and report.
Alderman Adams stated the proposed annexation is to control what happens in the
future of Southport by having foresight. He explained that it is not the City's
intent to hurt anyone or cause hardship on Woodside Trailer Park or Surfers
Restaurant. The City has taken steps to alleviate financial hardship by
adopting the sewer policy. If the Board does not act now, annexation will never
move forward with all the pending bills in the legislature on annexation and
stricter guidelines.
Attorney Isenberg stated the Board has until April 22, 2009 to make a decision.
After this time, the resolution of intent will expire. The Ordinance will not
become effective until April 9, 2010.
Alderman Potter stated when the Board started the annexation; he supported
expanding the City limits. At present, he is uncertain whether the City will
benefit from the proposed annexation.
Alderman Brown stated he has been an advocate of expanding the City limits to
the canal, but he is not convinced that this is the right time to annex.
Alderman Fisher stated he has always supported annexation and proposed years
ago to annex up to the Beach Road including Lowe's Home Improvement. The
current annexation did not take in the area that he supported; therefore, he
cannot support the proposed annexation plan.
Alderman Adams motioned, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to adopt the Ordinance
to extend the corporate limits of the City of Southport under the authority
granted by Chapter 160A, Article 4A, and Part 2 of the North Carolina General
Statutes. The votes were three ayes, Aldermen Adams, Frink and Boguskie. Three
noes, Aldermen Potter, Brown and Fisher. Mayor Spencer cast the tie-breaking
vote. Yes. Motion passed four ayes, three noes.
AN ORDINANCE TO EXTEND THE CORPORATE LIMITS OF THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT UNDER THE
AUTHORITY GRANTED BY CHAPTER 160A, ARTICLE 4A, PART 2 OF THE NORTH CAROLINA
GENERAL STATUTES
WHEREAS, all of the prerequisites to adoption of this ordinance prescribed in
Chapter 160A, Article 4A, Part 2 of the North Carolina General Statutes have
been met; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen has taken into full consideration the statements
presented at the public hearing held on January 22, 2009, on the question of
this annexation; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen has concluded and hereby declares that
annexation of the area described herein is necessary to the orderly growth and
development of the City of Southport;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport that:
Section 1. From and after the effective date of this annexation, the following
territory shall be annexed to and become a part of the City of Southport, and
the corporate limits of the City of Southport shall be extended to include said
territory more particularly described by metes and bounds as follows:
See Exhibit A attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
Section 2. The Board of Aldermen hereby finds and declares that the above-
described territory meets the requirements of G.S. 160A-36, in that:
Contiguity Test:
1.   The area is adjacent and contiguous to the existing municipal boundary, as
defined by G.S. 160A-36(b) (1), as of the 13th day of November, 2008, the date
upon which this annexation proceeding was begun.
2.   The aggregate external boundary line of the area to be annexed is
41,506.74 linear feet. The portion of this boundary that coincides with the
City of Southport’s boundary is 11,151.18 linear feet. Therefore, 26.9% of the
external boundary coincides with the City of Southport’s boundary, in excess of
the one-eighth (12.5%) contiguity requirement.
3.   No part of the area to be annexed is included within the boundary of
another incorporated municipality.
Subdivision Test:
1.   The area to be annexed is developed for urban uses as defined in G.S.
160A-36(c) in that 69.9% of the total number of lots and tracts in the area are
used for residential, commercial, industrial, institutional, or governmental
purposes, in excess of the required 60%, and 66.3% of the total of residential
and undeveloped acreage consists of lots and tracts three acres or less in
size, also in excess of the required 60%, all of which is demonstrated as
follows:
a.   Total Number of Lots and Tracts         =   113
Number of Lots and Tracts Used for Residential,
Commercial, Industrial, Institutional, or Governmental   =   79
Lots used for specified purposes            =    79
Total number of lots and tracts   113   =   69.9%
Statutory Requirement:   60%
b.   Total Residential and Undeveloped Acreage      =   73.93 acres
[total acreage, not counting acreage used for commercial, industrial,
governmental, or institutional purposes]
Residential and Undeveloped Acreage in Lots and
Tracts Three Acres or Less in Size          =   48.98 acres
Res. & Undev. Acreage in Lots/Tracts < 3 Acres   =   48.98
Total Residential & Undeveloped Acreage         73.93   = 66.3%
Statutory Requirement:   60%
Section 3. It is the purpose and intent of the City of Southport to provide
services to the area being annexed under this ordinance, as set forth in the
report of plans for services approved by the Board of Aldermen on November 13,
2008, and filed in the office of the Clerk for public inspection on November
13, 2008, and as amended on April 9, 2009.
See Exhibit B attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
Section 4. The Board of Aldermen hereby finds and declares that, on the
effective date of annexation prescribed in Section 8 hereof, the City of
Southport will have sufficient funds appropriated to finance the estimated cost
of construction of water and sewer facilities found necessary in the report of
plans for services to extend the basic sewer and water system of the City of
Southport into the area to be annexed under this ordinance.
Section 5. From and after the effective date of this annexation, the territory
annexed and its citizens and property shall be subject to all debts, laws,
ordinances and regulations in force in the City of Southport and shall be
entitled to the same privileges and benefits as other parts of the City.
Section 6. The newly annexed territory described above shall be subject to City
taxes according to G.S. 160A-58.10.
Section 7. The Mayor of the City of Southport shall cause an accurate map of
the annexed territory described in Section 1 hereof, together with a duly
certified copy of this ordinance, to be recorded in the office of the Brunswick
County Register of Deeds and in the office of the Secretary of State of North
Carolina. Such a map shall also be delivered to the Brunswick County Board of
Elections as required by G.S. 163-288.1.
Section 8. This ordinance shall become effective on April 9, 2010.
As to qualified tracts of agricultural land, horticultural land and forestland,
the annexation will become effective on the last day of the month in which the
tract or part thereof becomes ineligible for present-use classification under
G.S. 105-277.4 or no longer meets the requirements of G.S. 160A-37(f1)(2).
Adopted this 9th day of April 2009.
City of Southport
/s/ Sandra P. Spencer
By: Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk
STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA
BRUNSWICK COUNTY
I, Michael R. Isenberg, a Notary Public in and for the state and county
aforesaid, do hereby certify that Regina W. Alexander, personally known to me,
personally appeared before me this day and acknowledged that she is the Clerk
to the City of Southport Board of Aldermen, and that by authority duly given
and as the act of the municipal body politic, the foregoing instrument was
signed in its name by its Mayor, sealed with its municipal seal and attested by
herself as its Clerk.
WITNESS my hand and official stamp or seal this the 15th day of April, 2009.
s/ Michael R. Isenberg, Notary Public
My commission expires: 2-20-12
Exhibit A
Beginning at an existing iron pipe said iron pipe being located N 14-37-19 W
5129.10’ from the Nash Street baseline monument “C.S. 1890”. Said beginning
point also being located N 23-45-24 W 5150.33’ from a NCGS monument labeled
“HOWE” having coordinates of N=19246.126 E=700265.992 (meters). From the
beginning point so located running thence N 19-49-18 W 50.00’ to a point,
thence N 69-15-00 E 122.77’ to a point, thence N 20-38-16 W 49.98’ to a point,
thence S 69-15-31 W 122.06’ to a point, thence N 21-02-14 W 399.73’ to a point,
thence N 69-03-54 E 122.77’ to a point, thence N 20-54-07 W 790.42’to a point,
thence S 47-51-03 E 178.33’ to a point, thence S 20-50-46 E 66.00’ to a point,
thence N 68-48-16 E 582.42’ to a point, thence N 20-23-11 W 63.19’ to a point,
thence N 20-23-11 W 100.41’ to a point, thence N 21-48-35 W 99.58’ to a point,
thence N 18-42-17 W 50.51’ to a point, thence S 69-08-57 W 338.73’ to a point,
thence N 20-52-09 W 50.02’ to a point, thence S 69-10-36 W 245.32’ to a point,
thence N 20-50-34 W 75.02’ to a point, thence N 20-59-37 W 126.44’ to a point,
thence N 69-30-45 E 249.64’ to a point, thence N 20-49-58 W 171.80’ to a point,
thence N 21-02-12 W 9.68’ to a point, thence N 69-00-37 E 343.80’ to a point,
thence N 20-52-09 W 186.82’ to a point, thence S 69-27-43 W 45.79’ to a point,
thence N 17-44-09 W 12.20’ to a point, thence N 21-00-11 W 137.61’ to a point,
thence S 69-17-48 W 200.08’ to a point, thence S 69-17-48 W 197.24’ to a point,
thence S 41-50-42 W 79.09’ to a point, thence N 72-45-53 W 59.30’ to a point,
thence S 69-17-48 W 388.27’ to a point, thence S 20-47-10 E 810.89’ to a point,
thence S 71-20-31 W 163.30’ to a point, thence S 46-29-03 W 45.43’ to a point,
thence S 72-30-44 W 215.30’ to a point, thence N 22-09-25 W 720.22’ to a point,
thence S 51-21-08 W 633.28’ to a point, thence N 38-40-32 W 234.89’ to a point,
thence S 57-25-07 W 42.58’ to a point, thence S 87-26-50 W 41.48’ to a point,
thence N 02-49-05 W 35.70’ to a point, thence S 89-14-02 W 270.00’ to a point,
thence N 43-11-34 E 375.00’ to a point, thence N 02-49-34 W 102.41’ to a point,
thence N 02-57-01 W 625.24’ to a point, thence N 87-23-35 E 372.07’ to a point,
thence N 78-38-27 E 60.16’ to a point, thence S 74-17-32 E 573.34’ to a point,
thence S 20-48-14 E 38.69’ to a point, thence S 69-10-45 W 46.94’ to a point,
thence S 16-41-53 W 255.87’ to a point, thence S 03-13-52 W 217.96’ to a point,
thence N 53-20-05 E 97.65’ to a point, thence N 61-07-39 E 84.88’ to a point,
thence N 66-52-24 E 45.03’ to a point, thence N 51-15-22 E 97.11’ to a point,
thence N 51-19-50 E 112.02’ to a point, thence N 21-01-33 W 22.60’ to a point,
thence N 69-39-49 E 70.58’ to a point, thence N 20-54-28 W 630.62’ to a point,
thence N 69-26-06 E 254.29’ to a point, thence N 00-32-56 E 274.64’ to a point,
thence N 25-36-09 E 59.59’ to a point, thence N 28-07-35 W 63.71’ to a point,
thence N 28-01-47 W 200.02’ to a point, thence N 32-52-35 W 151.26’ to a point,
thence N 55-48-01 E 300.59’ to a point, thence N 33-48-44 W 49.99’ to a point,
thence N 27-20-23 W 50.05’ to a point, thence N 37-15-19 W 264.03’ to a point,
thence N 38-47-32 W 302.96’ to a point, thence N 40-10-56 W 497.29’ to a point,
thence S 57-15-56 W 100.02’ to a point, thence N 48-22-55 W 1547.09’ to a
point, thence S 55-51-14 W 258.90 to a point, thence S 55-41-18 W 300.28’ to a
point, thence N 35-17-11 E 603.58’ to a point, thence N 58-18-35-W 220.30’ to a
point, thence N 60-10-09 W 316.47’ to a point, thence N 62-28-48 W 154.72’ to a
point, thence N 64-01-31 W 314.37’ to a point, thence N 25-58-29 E 150.00’ to a
point, thence N 28-03-57 E 952.46’ to a point, thence S 70-50-49 E 24.10’ to a
point, thence S 70-50-17 E 548.66’ to a point, thence S 70-49-11 E 470.74’ to a
point, thence S 07-45-04 W 163.05’ to a point, thence S 75-57-19 E 618.78’ to a
point, thence S 03-28-40 E 178.99’ to a point, thence N 75-43-33 W 135.87’ to a
point, thence S 19-58-28 W 260.10’ to a point, thence S 55-42-47 W 698.38’ to a
point, thence S 48-11-42 E 1545.97’ to a point, thence N 55-38-53 E 303.90’ to
a point, thence S 06-28-59 E 114.12’ to a point, thence S 19-08-05 E 75.78’ to
a point, thence S 19-08-05 E 203.82’ to a point, thence S 55-42-34 W 239.00’ to
a point, thence S 38-45-18 E 335.02’ to a point, thence N 52-47-09 E 128.60’ to
a point, thence S 36-34-57 E 102.00’ to a point, thence S 53-15-49 W 127.56’ to
a point, thence S 31-26-58 E 338.09’ to a point, thence S 32-42-01 E 113.86’ to
a point, thence N 47-50-29 E 165.45’ to a point, thence N 28-45-21 W 108.00’ to
a point, thence N 55-29-38 E 225.72’ to a point, thence N 11-39-39 W 10.64’ to
a point, thence S 86-18-01 E 269.50’ to a point, thence S 17-46-44 E 720.58’ to
a point, thence S 17-22-04 E 200.41’ to a point, thence S 72-35-13 W 30.00’ to
a point, thence S 17-24-51 E 127.08’ to a point, thence S 68-53-28 W 426.36’ to
a point, thence S 20-46-00 E 225.17’ to a point, thence N 68-53-14 E 199.95’ to
a point, thence S 18-39-37 E 50.03’ to a point, thence S 69-22-21 W 8.73’ to a
point, thence S 52-55-43 E 132.70’ to a point, thence S 37-56-17 E 104.04’ to a
point, thence S 62-34-20 E 203.42’ to a point, thence S 16-12-39 E 234.55’ to a
point, thence N 57-45-34 E 34.43’ to a point, thence S 66-29-26 E 101.60’ to a
point, thence S 62-54-28 E 100.00’ to a point, thence S 27-31-44 W 227.00’ to a
point, thence S 85-41-07 E 244.70’ to a point, thence N 35-00-05 E 125.80’ to a
point, thence S 61-27-39 E 8.05’ to a point, thence S 61-25-44 E 159.17’ to a
point, thence S 28-45-27 W 43.07’ to a point, thence S 85-30-15 E 105.47’ to a
point, thence S 61-08-56 E 152.00’ to a point, thence S 23-55-15 W 293.12’ to a
point, thence N 83-52-50 W 146.78’ to a point, thence N 69-40-53 W 26.44’ to a
point, thence S 04-36-28 W 180.22’ to a point, thence S 05-29-10 W 133.73’ to a
point, thence S 77-44-56 E 130.32’ to a point, thence S 19-44-49 W 134.00’ to a
point, thence S 19-44-49 W 248.79’ to a point, thence S 17-03-43 E 137.63’ to a
point, thence S 69-58-33 E 346.16’ to a point, thence S 20-04-21 W 129.02’ to a
point, thence S 20-00-56 W 101.37’ to a point, thence N 70-00-51 W 171.83’ to a
point, thence S 63-52-58 W 58.99’ to a point, thence N 17-16-12 W 119.51’ to a
point, thence S 69-14-18 W 327.09’ to a point, thence S 21-09-08 E 105.44’ to a
point, thence S 58-21-24 W 80.63’ to a point, thence N 20-52-15 W 50.00’ to a
point, thence S 69-07-45 W 129.32’ to a point, thence S 20-52-15 E 50.00’ to a
point, thence S 69-04-40 W 331.32’ to a point, thence S 69-12-28 W 326.72’ to
the place and point of beginning, according to a Survey by Tide Water Surveying
entitled "AREA ANNEXED BY: THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT ON APRIL 9, 2009" recorded in
Map Cabinet 59 at Page 16 of the Brunswick County Registry, said tract having
the metes, bounds and location as shown on said map.
There is hereby excepted, however, from the above description those certain
areas already annexed to the City of Southport by annexation ordinances
recorded in Book 1393 Page 965, Book 1729 Page 1361, Book 1805 Page 122, Book
1836 Page 471 and Book 1865 Page 819 of the Brunswick County Registry.
Exhibit B
Plans for Services
Source: City of Southport Annexation Plan and Report North Howe Street Area
IV.
MAJOR SERVICES AND EXPENDITURES
This section of the annexation report provides the basis for plans to extend to
the proposed annexation area all applicable major services currently provided
in Southport on a non-discriminatory basis. North Carolina general statutes
require that all services including police, fire, infrastructure, and
administration be provided within the annexed area at levels comparable to that
provided within the existing corporate limits. The City of Southport, through
these annexation procedures, will aim to accommodate this requirement while
minimizing the financial impact on residential and non-residential property
owners.
A.   Administration Overview
The city operates under the Mayor-Aldermen-Manager form of government in
accordance with G.S. Chapter 160A, Article 7, Part 2. The Mayor and Board of
Aldermen are the governing body of the city. The Board is composed of six
members representing two voting districts who are elected at-large. The members
are elected for four-year terms. The Mayor is elected at large and serves a
two-year term.
The City Manager is appointed by the Board, and is responsible for the
administration of all departments of the city government and the implementation
of Board policy. The Board also appoints a City Attorney to represent the city
and provide legal counsel to city officials. The Board appoints citizen
representatives to serve on a variety of advisory committees who advise the
Board of various issues such as beautification, forestry, planning, and others.
The City Clerk maintains a City Code that codifies ordinances pertaining to the
administration and operations of the city.
The city administration is comprised of ten departments (Administration, Public
Services, Police, Building Inspections, Planning, Parks and Recreation,
Tourism, Code Enforcement, Water and Sewer Utility, Finance, Animal Control,
and Fire and EMS (Volunteer)) functioning under the direction of the City
Manager. A department head is appointed by the City Manager to manage each of
these departments.
B.   Police Protection
The Southport Police Department is located on the first floor of the City Hall
Building at 201 East Moore Street. The department’s full-time staff is made up
of a chief, one lieutenant, two sergeants, seven patrolmen, and a records
clerk. The city also has six part-time office personnel and one K-9. The
department responds to approximately 600 calls per month and maintains its own
Records Management System. Response calls are received through the Brunswick
County 911 Call Center. The following vehicles are available for use by the
department:
•   1 - 2005 Crown Victoria
•   1 - 2004 Crown Victoria
•   2 - 2002 Crown Victorias
•   1 - 1999 Chevy Lumina
•   2 - 1998 Crown Victorias
•   1 - 1998 Chevy Lumina
•   1 - 1997 Crown Victoria
•   2 - 1996 Crown Victorias
•   1 - 1994 Chevy Caprice
•   1 - Harley Davidson Motorcycle
•   1 - Speed Monitor Trailer
1.   Staffing Recommendation Statistics
According to the United States Department of Justice as of 2007, the average
number of law enforcement employees, including both full time sworn in officers
and civilians, for cities located in the south is 3.4 per 1000 population. The
national average for all cities is also 3.0 per 1000 population. Currently, the
Southport Police Department exceeds these minimum staffing levels with 4.2
full-time sworn officers and civilians per 1000 population. The population used
to make this determination is 2,860 as reported by the NC Department of Revenue
Sales and Use Tax Distribution.
As noted earlier in the report, it is estimated that Southport’s population
will increase by an estimated 229 persons subsequent to annexation. This will
result in a staffing level of 3.9 police department employees per 1000 in
population. The resultant staffing level for the Southport Police Department
subsequent to annexation will be above both the southern and national averages.
The city will closely monitor this issue to ensure that adequate police
protection is provided. If it is determined that additional staffing is
required, the Board of Aldermen will take appropriate measures to accommodate
this need.
C.   Code Enforcement and Animal Control Operations
The Southport Code Enforcement Department has the main responsibility of
enforcing all city codes recorded in the Southport General Code of Ordinances.
The Department has several different divisions in which the duties of code
enforcement are grouped:
Animal Control
Fire Prevention
Health/Sanitation
Minimum Housing
Solid Waste
Miscellaneous/Other Duties
The Code Enforcement Officer is responsible for the enforcement of the animal
control code, which is outlined in Section 3 of the Southport Code of
Ordinances. Along with the enforcement of this code, the City of Southport
provides several services dealing with domesticated animals as a benefit to
city residents. They are as follows:
Rabies Education
Free Adoptions
Low Cost Rabies Clinics
Pet Responsibility Education
City Licensing Program
Stray/Abandoned Animal Capture
The Code Enforcement Officer also performs several investigative functions.
Under the Animal Control Division, the code official is a North Carolina State
Certified Animal Cruelty Investigator. All animal cruelty/neglect cases are
investigated through this department. Noise violations pertaining to animals
are also investigated when a complaint is received. All animal bites/attacks
must be reported and investigated according to the North Carolina General
Statues. Any and all animal related matters can be forwarded to the Code
Enforcement Department for a prompt response.
The proposed annexation will not have any significant impact on the current
staffing levels for the provision of code enforcement and animal control
services.
D.   Public Services
The City of Southport Public Services Department is currently staffed by an
administrative staff of seven individuals. This staff is comprised of a Public
Services Director, Assistant Director, Wastewater Operations Supervisor,
Systems Coordinator, Buildings and Grounds Supervisor, Public Works Supervisor,
and Garage Supervisor. These individuals are charged with maintaining the
city’s infrastructure including the electric system, water and sewer services,
city maintained streets, and governmental facilities.
The proposed annexation will not necessitate a need for additional public
services personnel; however, there will be cost tied to the provision of
comprehensive infrastructure services. The following provides a detailed
breakdown of each function of the public services, and what cost will be
incurred to insure statutory compliance with the provision of services to the
annexation area. Within this section of the report, the following will be
addressed: streets, electric services, water services, and sewer services.
1.   Streets/Lighting
A majority of the streets located within the annexation area are currently
paved, and are either maintained by the North Carolina Department of
Transportation (NCDOT) or the City of Southport. As noted within the revenue
section of the report, the city will assume maintenance of an additional 1.8
miles of right-of-way within the annexation area. The city will utilize
increased Powell Bill revenues to provide street and shoulder maintenance for
these streets. The remainder of streets located within the annexation boundary
will continue to be maintained by NCDOT.
There are three street segments within the proposed annexation area that are
either currently unopened or not paved. These include a portion of North Lord
Street (unopened/602 linear feet), a portion of North Atlantic Avenue (not
paved/948 linear feet), and Dutch Street (not paved/785 linear feet). As with
other unpaved right-of-ways within the city, streets will be improved upon the
request of those property owners served by a respective right-of-way. There is
a landowner cost share associated with this process. Each street will be
addressed independently upon request of said property owners. Upon annexation,
property owners along North Lord Street, Dutch Street, and North Atlantic
Avenue may request improved road service through the City of Southport Board of
Aldermen.
Within the city’s primary corporate limits, there are streetlights located
along city-maintained right-of-ways at an approximate rate of one light per 500
linear feet. In order to maintain this standard within the annexation area, the
installation of an additional ten (10) streetlights will be required. The
installation of one streetlight is estimated to cost $1,200, resulting in a
total cost of $12,000. The city contracts with Brunswick Electric Membership
Corporation for the installation of all new streetlights, and will utilize
these services to install all required lighting proposed within this report.
2.   Electric Service
The City of Southport provides electric service through its Public Services
Department, and is responsible for the maintenance of all transmission lines
and service connections. Electric service is provided on the basis of
districts, and most of the properties located within the proposed annexation
area are currently served by the city’s system. Due to this fact, no impact
regarding either expenditures or revenues is anticipated as a result of the
proposed annexation.
3.   Water Service
As discussed within the revenue summary portion of this report, all properties
within the proposed annexation area are currently served by either the county
or the city water systems. It has been noted that a reduction in water sales
revenue is anticipated as a result of this annexation process; however, no
additional expenditures are anticipated to provide public water to the proposed
annexation area. The city’s public services department will continue to provide
maintenance to this portion of the water system at current staffing and budget
levels.
4.   Sewer Service
A detailed account of current sewer service within the annexation area was
discussed within the revenue section of this report. Additionally, Map 3,
Appendix I, provides an account of where infrastructure services are available.
The Board of Aldermen will provide central sewer service consistent with the
city’s sewer service policies.
Installation of all required sewer improvements will be installed in
conjunction with the capital project proposed by the city to connect its city-
wide sewer system to BrunswickCounty. The city is currently in the planning
stages of a project to reverse the flow of wastewater to the Brunswick County
Public Utilities treatment system. By mandate from the North Carolina
Department of Environment and Natural Resources, the city must close its
existing wastewater treatment plant no later than November of 2011. In order to
comply with this mandate, the city has negotiated with Brunswick County to
accomplish a flow reversal project that will facilitate closure of the city
plant and connect the city system to the Brunswick County system.
The proposed project involves running a force main from the existing system to
a point of connection to the county’s system along NC 211 in the vicinity of
St. James. This project will involve the installation of transmission lines and
a large pump station to be located on property across N. Howe Street from the
current Wal-Mart property. The cost of this project is estimated to be $4.5
million dollars. This project and expenses associated with it will not be
considered a factor regarding this annexation report because the connection to
the county system will occur with or without annexation. It should also be
noted that city has received a $3 million dollar grant from the Clean Water
Management Trust fund to assist in the planning and development of this
substantial capital improvements effort.
The city will complete the connection to the county system by the end of 2010.
The proposed pump station and transmission lines associated with this system
will assist in providing ready access to a large portion of the proposed
annexation area. In order to address the remainder of the properties currently
not served, the city will need to acquire one pump station. The required pump
station may be acquired from Wal-Mart, and is already in place and functional.
The estimated cost of taking over this pump station and upgrading the facility
to required standards will be approximately $50,000.
Once these sewer improvements have been established, the only other improvement
required to provide the entire annexation area with central sewer service is
collection lines. The city estimates that the impact fee revenue outlined in
the previous section of the report will cover a substantial portion of this
cost, assuming service is extended to the entire annexation area. Any cost
balance will be paid out of the City of Southport Water and Sewer Fund.
Construction contracts on required lines must be let and construction begin
within one year after the effective date of annexation, and the City will so
comply. Lines will be constructed in accordance with current city policies for
sewer services.
The city maintains an independent water and sewer fund that will serve to
finance any required improvements required as a result of the proposed
annexation. Additionally, the city currently has adequate sewer capacity to
support additional connections that will result from annexation. Connection of
the city to the county sewer system in 2010 will ensure adequate sewer
capacity. The annexation is expected to have a minimal impact on demand with
respect to the water or wastewater treatment systems.
5.   Sanitation
Sanitation curbside solid waste removal services will be provided in accordance
with Section IIIF, outlined above. There is not expected to be any impact on
revenues or expenditures relating to these services. The city will continue to
provide curbside yard waste and recycling services (currently contracted with
Waste Industries). Brunswick County will continue to provide weekly curbside
solid waste pickup services.
E.   Fire Department
The City of Southport Volunteer Fire Department currently serves the city as
well as a surrounding Fire Protection Service District established through
Brunswick County. The fire department is funded by a fire fee collected by the
county, and disbursed among the county’s defined fire districts. The fee is
calculated based on the type of use and size of a particular property.
The Southport Volunteer Fire Department will continue to serve the annexed area
in the same capacity as it served prior to annexation. Property owners will
continue to pay the same fire fee as they paid prior to annexation. There will
be no change in the level of service provided or the cost of providing/
receiving service. There are no rural fire departments currently providing
service within the proposed annexation area.
According to the Insurance Services Office of North Carolina, the current fire
insurance classification of the area served by the Southport Volunteer Fire
Department is 4, conditioned upon the property being located within 1,000 feet
of a fire hydrant.
The area to be annexed is currently served by the Southport Volunteer Fire
Department, and is located within 1,000 feet of a fire hydrant. There will be
no change in fire insurance rates or services as a result of annexation.
F.   Parks and Recreation
The City of Southport maintains six parks.
Waterfront Park, located on Bay Street between Howe and Davis Streets, is a 1-
acre park overlooking the Cape Fear River. The park has a public fishing pier,
shelters, benches, picnic tables, water fountains, swings, lights, and
walkways.
Lowe-White Memorial Park, located on the corner of Leonard Street and Willis
Drive, is a 1.5-acre park with plans for renovation. Plans for renovation
include a playground, a walking track, 2 tennis courts, and restrooms.
Franklin Square Park is located off Howe Street between Nash and West Streets.
The 1-acre park has a large gazebo and stage, a small playground, park benches,
and picnic tables.
Keziah Park is located on the corner of Moore and Lord Streets. The 1/4-acre
park is best known for its Indian Trail Tree and is used for picnicking and
passive activities.
Alvin C. Caviness Park is located on Owens Street between Clarendon Street and
Caswell Avenue. The 3/4-acre park has one full and one half court basketball
arena and children’s playground equipment. Stevens Park is located in the
city’s ETJ on 9th Street. This is a 7-acre property which is being cleared for
a ball field.
In addition to the parks mentioned above, the city maintains an Art Gallery, a
City Gym , the community center, a city dock, a multi-purpose building (Jaycee
Building), a Senior Citizens Center (located behind the Jaycee Building), a
visitor center (located adjacent to Keziah Park), and Fort Johnston, which is
used as a multi-purpose building. The park services outlined above are all
available for use to city residents and visitors free of charge. The City of
Southport maintains a proactive parks and recreation department, and will
continue to research new recreational opportunities. The proposed annexation is
not expected to have any impact on revenues or expenditures regarding the
provision of recreational services.
G.   Planning and Building Inspections
The mission of the Planning Department is (1) to work with the City Manager and
the City Board of Aldermen to plan for the growth and evolution of the city;
(2) to manage the land use controls (land use plan, zoning code, subdivision
code, sign code, etc.); (3) to promote the health, safety, and welfare of
property owners and the general public through effective building code
inspections; (4) to assure the efficient communication between zoning and
inspection activities through vigorous code enforcement; and (5) to support the
activities of the city's Planning Board and Board of Adjustment.
The Building Inspection Services Department is charged with providing
inspection services, plan review and customer service to every architect,
engineer, developer, contractor, business and property owner that resides or
works within the City of Southport. The Building Inspection Services Department
is responsible for ensuring safety and the safeguard of property through the
enforcement of the North Carolina Building Code, Plumbing Code, Mechanical
Code, Electrical Code, and Fire Code.
Before commencing construction, repair or making any alterations, property
owners must confer with the Planning and Building Inspections Department to
make certain that the project conforms to current building and zoning codes and
that the proper permits are obtained. Thus, there will be no impact on
development standards or staffing levels for the Planning and Inspections
department.
H.   Expenditures Summary
Expenditures resulting from the annexation are summarized as follows:
 
              Initial Costs
Street Lights $12,000
 
Sewer System Upgrades * $50,000
 
Total Estimated Expenditures Resulting from the Annexation $62,000
 
*Cost for sewer system upgrades does not include expenditures associated with
the installation of collection lines.
Source: Holland Consulting Planners, Inc.
c)   COPS Grant Funding
Alderman Fisher motioned, seconded by Alderman Potter to approve the submittal
of the COPS grant funding application, the vote of approval was unanimous.
City Manager Thornton told the Board that the funding is furnished for three
years and the City will be obligated the fourth year to remain at the same
staffing level.
d)   Fire Station Project and Bids
Mayor Spencer stated she does not think the City is to the point where it can
consider bids for the new fire station and believes the Board should schedule a
work session to consider its options.
City Manager Thornton stated the request for proposals on financing were
submitted to five financial institutions and only two received, RBC and BB&T.
The Finance Officer, Fire Chief and himself met with the Local Government
Commission in Raleigh on April 8 and discussed procedures that are required in
accordance with NCGS 160A-20 as follows:
·   Public Hearing advertised 10 days prior to hearing,
·   Approval of request for proposals on financing,
·   Resolution adopted authorizing the filing of an application for approval of
a financing agreement authorized by NCGS 160A-20
·   Application to the LGC must be submitted three weeks prior to the LGC's
monthly meeting
·   Certificate of approval from the LGC
·   Closing date on installment contract
He and the Finance Director also attended a meeting in Greenville on Stimulus
funding, and there are monies available. Staff will seek monies but funds will
not be available until May. The Local Government Commission does not recommend
USDA financing because it is available for forty years at 4%.
Alderman Adams stated a commitment was made several years ago to build a new
fire station and it can be done. He used the Community Building as an example
of what can be done when working together.
Alderman Fisher motioned, seconded by Alderman Brown to award the contract for
the construction of the new fire station to John S. Clark Co., LLC and the fire
station construction commence as soon as possible and to include the amendment.
Amendment: Contingent upon the City securing the necessary financing to pay for
said project upon terms and conditions acceptable to the Board of Aldermen.
Motion seconded by Alderman Brown. Discussion:   Alderman Boguskie asked if the
Public Hearing would be held prior to the May meeting. After discussion, it was
determined that the hearing would be held during the May 14, meeting. The vote
was unanimous.
e   Resolution of Intent to Authorize the Lease of the Davis Street Barracks
Alderman Potter motioned to defer consideration of leasing the Davis Street
Barrack(s) to the N.C. Maritime Museum at Southport until the Maritime
Committee can meet April 16, to bring a recommendation to the Board. Motion
seconded by Alderman Boguskie, the votes were 5 ayes Aldermen Potter, Boguskie,
Brown, Adams and Frink. 1 no, Alderman Fisher.
f)   ABC Resolution 
City Manager Thornton stated that legislation has been introduced in the House
and Senate to make changes to the State's ABC System. If approved it would
reduce the ABC Boards to possibly one in this region. He stated that
Southport's ABC store is well managed and profitable, he recommended adoption
of the resolution.
Alderman Fisher stated Southport's ABC Board has been second or third in the
State in profits and has served the City well. He motioned, seconded by
Alderman Brown to adopt a Resolution supporting local control of local ABC
Boards and opposing forced mergers of local ABC Boards. The vote was unanimous.
(Resolution Incorporated as Attachment #1)
IX.
City Manager Comments
·   Town Hall Day scheduled May 6
·   Board needs to schedule work session on UDO amendments
·   Three Planning Board appointments are due
·   Spring Festival April 10-11
X.
Board Comments
Alderman Boguskie referenced the meeting held in Boiling Spring Lakes with the
North Carolina State Ports Authority and the meeting with the No Port Southport
Organization. He stated that the previous Board adopted a Resolution of Support
in 2006 when there was very little information about the Port. He asked the
Board's concurrence to have the City Manager schedule a meeting with the State
Ports Authority to bring City officials up to date, and to meet with the No
Ports Organization in a public meeting for questions and answers.
Alderman Adams stated as a Board member, he does not want to place himself in a
precarious situation because the City is trying to put itself in a position to
obtain services if the Port does become a reality. He stated that he is not
opposed to State Port representatives coming to Southport for a public meeting.
Alderman Brown stated he does not have a problem with representatives from the
State Port scheduling a public meeting at the Community Building, but the Board
of Aldermen should not call it.
Alderman Fisher communicated that the Corp of Engineers received $93,000 to
begin the navigation study for the waterside of the project. The landside has
not been appropriated any money. He agreed that the City should give them use
of City facilities if they wish to hold a public informational meeting.
The Board by consensus agreed to direct the City Manager to contact the State
Ports Authority to ascertain their willingness to hold a public information
meeting in Southport for an update on the proposed Port.
Planning Board Appointment (s)
Alderman Fisher motioned to reappoint Mr. Buddy Barnes to the Planning Board,
for a three-year term, seconded by Alderman Potter. Vote unanimous.
Southport Historical Society Operation Plan
Alderman Boguskie communicated to the Board that he received questions from the
Southport Historical Society concerning their proposal to use the main room of
the Garrison House for artifact displays and videos. He asked the Board's
intent concerning the proposal.
Alderman Brown stated the best use of the building needs to be determined and
suggested waiting until the Committee makes a recommendation on the Maritime
Museum before deciding on the request from the Historical Society.
Mayor Spencer stated the Sr. Center Building would soon be vacant. The Board
may wish to discuss options on using the building to relocate some offices.
Alderman Potter questioned if the Board was expanding the mission of the
Committee that was appointed to discuss options for the Maritime Museum to
include the Southport Historical Society. He stated that the   Historical
Society asked to use the main Garrison room to display artifacts and video
clips of Southport during various events. The Board should provide them with an
answer. After discussion, it was the consensus to resolve the Maritime Museum
issue before action is taken on the Southport Historical Society's request.
XI.
Board Comments
Alderman Fisher announced the Spring Festival April 10-11, Franklin Square
Park.
Mayor Spencer announced that Relay for Life will be held the first weekend in
May at West Brunswick High School. She will sponsor a yard sale April 18 to
help raise monies for this cause.
XII.
Adjournment – 9:04 p.m.
Alderman Boguskie moved to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Alderman Frink,
vote carried.
__________________________________
Sandra P. Spencer
Mayor
___________________________________
Regina W. Alexander, MMC
City Clerk
APRIL 27, 2009
SPECIAL MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN SPECIAL MEETING
APRIL 27, 2009    6:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
            Aldermen James Brown, Donnie Potter, Nelson Adams, Ed Boguskie
            and Jwantana Frink
ABSENT:         Alderman Paul Fisher
STAFF PRESENT:       Alan Thornton, City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander, City Clerk
I.
Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Spencer called the meeting to order at 6:02 p.m.
II.
Invocation
Alderman Brown pronounced the invocation.
III.
Purpose of Meeting
Mayor Spencer announced the purpose of the Special Meeting was to discuss the
Maritime Museum. She asked Aldermen Boguskie and Frink for an update on the
meeting held with the Friends of the Museum and representatives from the
Department of Cultural Resources on April 16.
Aldermen Boguskie, Frink and the City Manager briefed the Board on the meeting:
·   Museum will stay open through September
·   Discussed location of Museum, where it could and should be located
·   Thirty-day notice to get logistics in order to prepare for closing.
·   Looking at concession agreement for the other barrack on Moore Street
·   Talked about options, if the Landlord would lower the rent and have a plan
in place.
·   Time is limited, Department of Cultural Resources looking for assistance
from the City. They are seeking options and solutions because the State does
not have the money. Department of Cultural Resources budget will be reduced by
33% in fiscal year 09-10. Paying $65,000 in rent is not an option.
·   Mr. Thornton stated there is not sufficient time to provide another option
because staff was told that the Museum would close in September. He explained
the importance of the Museum to Southport's economic survival. The City asked
for a commitment by the State to develop a long-range plan for the Maritime
Museum existence in Southport, but Cultural Resources staff could not guarantee
anything because of the financial condition of the State. They all agreed that
the solution presented is not the best, but a viable option to continue
operating the Museum. The State does not have the money to purchase property
and construct a new Museum. However, the Board should continue to push for this
when the economic situation improves.
·   Alderman Frink communicated that the State's major concern is paying rent,
which has not been discussed in detail.
Alderman Adams stated the Maritime Committee has not approached Mr. Harrelson
about negotiating the rent and he is amenable to negotiation, if the Museum
staff wishes to remain in their existing location. He stated the Maritime
Committee should be given the opportunity to talk with Mr. Harrelson.
Mayor Spencer stated that she spoke with Mr. Harrelson and he indicated a
willingness to reduce the rent with the City paying $30,000 and the County
$30,000. She also spoke with the Chairman of the County Commissioners about
funding for the Museum and was told the request would be considered in their
budget deliberations.
Alderman Adams stated the City would possibly have some available funds and
vacant buildings. It is his belief that these options should be explored. If
the City can help the Museum to remain in place for one year, this will give
the Board sufficient time to explore other options.
Alderman Brown stated he wished to explore other options and to seek funding to
assist with rent. Once the fire station is constructed, it will leave a vacant
building, which is a more suitable location for the museum.
Mayor Spencer stated that the City wants the Museum to remain open and the
Board is exploring every available option to assist.
Alderman Boguskie restated the time constraint and encouraged the Board to make
a decision because of the thirty-day time period.
Alderman Potter stated the immediate need of the Museum should be addressed. He
does not deem it a problem leasing another barrack to the Maritime Museum,
since they already have a concession agreement for one. The renovations and
expansion will save the City money in maintenance and upkeep. It appears the
only choice is to find a location or assist in the payment of rent. He stated
his support of Parks and Recreation and the Museum, but the Board needs to make
a decision.
Alderman Frink reiterated that she does not want the Museum to close; however,
as a member of the Parks and Recreation Committee she stated that they had not
been invited to the table to discuss this matter with the various factions. No
one on the Parks and Recreation Committee wants to see the Museum closed.
After discussion, Board consensus was that the Maritime Committee appointed by
the Mayor meet and bring a recommendation to the Board no later than Tuesday,
May 12, 2009 at a Special Meeting.
Alderman Potter motioned, seconded by Alderman Adams that the Maritime Museum
Committee meet with the necessary parties and make a decision prior to the May
14 regular Board meeting, and to place this item on the Board's agenda for a
vote. The vote of approval was unanimous.
_________________________________
Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
_______________________________
Regina W. Alexander, MMC
City Clerk
MAY 14, 2009
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
MAY 14, 2009      7:30 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
            Aldermen Nelson Adams, Donnie Potter, Ed Boguskie,
            Paul Fisher and Jwantana Frink
ABSENT:         Alderman James Brown
STAFF PRESENT:       M. Alan Thornton, City Manager
               Regina W. Alexander, MMC-City Clerk
            Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
            Patty Miller, Finance Officer
            Ralph Cardwell, Public Services Director
            Randy Jones, Director of Tourism
            Amy Nelson, Planning Director
            Jerry Dove, Chief of Police
            Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
            Gregory Cumbee, Fire Chief
I.
Call to Order – 7:30 p.m.
Mayor Spencer called the meeting to order at 7:32 p.m.
II.
Invocation
Jerry Dove, Chief of Police pronounced the invocation
III.
Approval of Minutes
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Potter to approve the following
minutes, the vote of approval was unanimous.
·   March 21, Special Meeting Minutes
·   March 31, Special Meeting Minutes
·   April 3, Special Meeting Minutes
·   April 9, Regular Meeting Minutes
·   April 27, Special Meeting Minutes
IV.
Public Comments
Mayor Spencer recognized Randy Thompson, Emergency Services Director of
Brunswick County, Scott Garner, Deputy Emergency Services Director and Fire
Marshall and County Commissioner Charles Warren.
Mayor Spencer read a letter from Attorney James R. Prevatte commending the
firefighters who worked diligently to save his law office at 601 N. Howe Street
on May 6. He expressed support of the Fire Department and encouraged the Board
to increase its level of support to the fire and rescue departments.
Ken Karn of 307 Park Avenue Extension expressed support of the Maritime Museum
locating in the Fort Johnston Barracks and encouraged the Board to support the
Museum in their quest.
Dr. William Rabon of 404 West Brunswick Street thanked the firefighters for a
great job and in responding to 400 calls last year and putting their lives on
the line. He expressed his support of the firefighters and thanked them for
their efforts; stating, "Tonight that call has been reversed, four hundred
times last year we called them, tonight they call us. I think that it is time
for this community to answer that call without prejudice and without
reservation."
Mary Ellen Poole of 217 Willis Drive expressed her support of the fire
department and stated as Human Resources Director for a federal installation,
she knows firsthand what firefighters are paid and the firefighters of
Southport are volunteers. She stated that the City needs to provide a facility
(new fire station) that would accommodate their needs.
Pam Cumbee of 5672 Bethel Road spoke on behalf of the wives and families of the
firefighters. She stated that the current fire department is inadequate and
substandard. The firefighters are dedicated and noble to their call and they
have spent many years of their lives in active service to their community.
Their families accept their call and support them. She conveyed her confidence
and trust in the people who worked on the Fire Station Committee to raise
monies to help defray the cost of the new fire station. She encouraged people
to believe in the department by doing the right thing.
Tish H. Hatem conveyed her support of a new fire station. She stated that she
would like the City to prepare for the 21st century and build a fire station
with the latest technology and a command center.
Mr. Sonny Hickman a supporter of the fire department told a childhood story
about the volunteer firefighters and the death of a firefighter because of
insufficient equipment. He encouraged the Board to support the fire department
in their quest for a new facility with updated technology and equipment.
There were no additional comments from the public.
V.
Approval of Agenda
Alderman Paul Fisher motioned to place the Fire Committee report on the agenda
after the Public Hearing, seconded by Alderman Adams. Discussion: Mayor Spencer
stated as a member of the Fire Station Committee, she has not been notified of
meetings. Alderman Fisher explained that the Executive Committee met, not the
Fire Station Committee. The vote of approval was unanimous.
City Manager Thornton requested an item be added under IX-k Renewable Energy
and Development Services Agreement with the NCEMPA.
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Frink to amend the agenda to
include the above items. The vote of approval was unanimous.
VI.
Committee Reports
Reports included in the agenda packets.
VII.
Departmental Reports
Reports included in the agenda packets.
Chief Dove introduced two new hires:
·   Glwyn Sawyer a five-year veteran of law enforcement from Sparta, N.C. and a
graduate of Surry Community College, and
·   Ben Rivenbark, graduate of James Sprunt Community College, Kenansville,
N.C.
VIII.
Public Hearing
a)   City of Southport Fire Station
Attorney Isenberg stated the purpose of the Public Hearing is to determine the
advisability and method of financing for the new fire station project.
Alderman Fisher moved, seconded by Alderman Potter to enter Public Hearing to
receive comments on the Fire Station Project. The vote of approval was
unanimous.
Mr. Randy Thompson, Emergency Services Director for Brunswick County applauded
the Board for its decision to construct a new fire station with a command
center and preparing for the future. He stated the City has moved in a positive
direction to address the location of a new station where multiple services can
be held including operational and housing equipment. He explained although the
fire department is a Municipal Department, the County receives quarterly
reports and tracks funding for every department. The City of Southport's Fire
Department has never had questionable expenditures and all monies spent were
accounted and justified. Mr. Thompson concluded saying that the justification
for funding and the need for the future is present.
Mr. Charles Warren, Brunswick County Commissioner congratulated the Board on
the proposed new fire station. He encouraged the Board to support whatever
funding is required and offered the support of himself as a County Commissioner
and the County.
REGULAR SESSION
There were no additional comments from the public. Alderman Potter moved,
seconded by Alderman Frink to close the Public Hearing and to re-enter regular
session. The vote of approval was unanimous.
IX.
New Business
Fire Department Report
Mr. Robert Howard presented a report that outlined the financial responsibility
of the Fire Department in constructing the proposed new fire station. Southport
Fire Department has an ISO rating of four, which is the highest rating for a
volunteer department. He gave financial statistics comparing amortization rates
including exploratory tax rates for financing of the new fire station. It was
also requested that financing of the fire station be one note with two payment
schedules, one for the City and the other for the fire station because they are
proposing a capital fund raising campaign to pay off the fire department
portion of the indebtedness early and without penalty. Ms. Patty Miller,
Finance Officer stated BB&T was willing to do this.
a)   Consideration of Resolution Authorizing Approval of a Financing Agreement
for the Southport Fire Station Project
Alderman Fisher motioned to approve the resolution with financing terms
presented by the Southport Fire Committee.
Attorney Isenberg stated that the Resolution in the agenda packet is required
by the Local Government Commission approving the financing terms by installment
method only.
Alderman Fisher amended the motion under No. 5 stating the increase in taxes
necessary to meet the sums to fall due under the proposed contract "will not
exceed$0.0266 cents per $100 valuation." Alderman Adams seconded the motion
including the amendment. The vote of approval was unanimous. (Resolution
Incorporated as Attachment #1)
b)   Consideration of a Resolution Approving the Financing Terms for the
Southport Fire Station Project
City Manager Thornton and Patty Miller, Finance Officer checked with BB&T
concerning two payment schedules. City Manager Thornton recommended the Board
approve the financing terms based upon the agreement with BB&T in the agenda
packets. BB&T representatives stated that they would be willing to have two
payment schedules, but only one contract because the Fire Department is a City
Department and cannot enter into a contract for financing without the City.
This can be accomplished internally by allowing two payment schedules, and
staff recommended against changing the terms of the financing agreement because
the Board does not have the authority to do so.
Alderman Fisher motioned, seconded by Alderman Adams to adopt the Resolution
Approving the Financing Terms though BB&T for a twenty (20) year term with two
payment schedules, one for the Fire Department, and one for the City. The vote
of approval was unanimous.
City Manager Thornton told the Board that he will continue to monitor stimulus
funding and funds are available to build fire departments and he will be
seeking to apply for some of these funds.
c)   Consideration of an Ordinance Establishing a Capital Project Fund for the
Southport Fire Station
Alderman Boguskie motioned, seconded by Alderman Frink to approve the Ordinance
Establishing a Capital Project Fund for the Fire Station, the vote of approval
was unanimous.
ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING A CAPITAL PROJECT FUND:
SOUTHPORT FIRE STATION
BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen of Southport, North Carolina, that,
pursuant to Section 13.2 of Chapter 159 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, the following capital project ordinance is hereby adopted:
Section 1.   The project authorized is the construction of the new Southport
Fire Station
Section 2.   The officers of this unit are hereby directed to proceed with the
capital project within the terms of the budget contained herein.
Section 3.   The following amounts are appropriated in the Capital Project
Fund:
Professional Services-A/E Design          $ 224,000
Capital Outlay-Construction            $3,338,000
Capital Outlay-Furnishings/Telephone      $ 52,000
Miscellaneous/Contingency            $ 170,000
Total                     $3,784,000
Section 4.   The following revenues are anticipated to be available in the
Capital Project Fund:
Loan Proceeds                  $3,784,000
Section 5.   Copies of this capital project ordinance shall be furnished to the
Clerk to the Board of Aldermen, and to the Budget Officer and the Finance
Officer for direction in carrying out this project.
Adopted this the 14th day of May, 2009
/s/SANDRA P SPENCER
MAYOR
ATTESTED:
/s/ REGINA W ALEXANDER
CITY CLERK
Alderman Adams questioned when the building would be demolished that is located
where the new fire station will be constructed. City Manager Thornton stated he
would check with the Building Inspector for demolition and removal to begin the
process.
Alderman Fisher stated there has been some discussion that the Fire Station has
been railroaded through for approval and to clarify this matter he recalled
discussion from February 1994 when it was initially discussed and it has been a
steady progression.
d)    Consideration of Maritime Museum Committee Recommendation Regarding the
North Carolina Maritime Museum at Southport
Alderman Boguskie stated the Committee agreed to grant use of the second
barrack to the N.C. Maritime Museum of Southport and mirror the current
concession agreement but the lease will be for two years renewable at two-year
intervals. He motioned to adopt the following Resolution to Consider Lease of
City Property, seconded by Alderman Fisher. The vote of approval was unanimous.
RESOLUTION TO CONSIDER LEASE OF CITY PROPERTY
WHEREAS, the City of Southport currently owns the Ft. Johnston Davis Street
barracks; and
WHEREAS, Friends of the NC Maritime Museum at Southport has requested that the
City lease said property to the N. C. Department of Cultural Resources for $1
per year for two years (renewable by mutual consent) for the purpose of
locating, establishing and maintaining the Southport Maritime Museum at said
site; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen desires to review and consider said request at
its next regular meeting on June 11, 2009;
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT BOARD OF ALDERMEN RESOLVES THAT:
1.   The Board of Aldermen shall consider authorizing the lease of the city
property described above to the N. C. Department of Cultural Resources for two
years at a rental of one dollar ($1) per year at its regular meeting on June
11, 2009.
2.   That notice of this Board’s intent to consider the authorization of said
lease shall be given by publication in accordance with G. S. 160A- 272.
Adopted May 14, 2009.
City of Southport
/s/ Sandra P. Spencer
Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
City Clerk 
Concession Agreement: Alderman Fisher noted several areas that need to be
reviewed:
·   1st page check word "same terms"
·   Questioned use of premises, stating in reading the Concession Agreement the
Maritime Museum can rent the facilities but the City is denied the same
privilege for the Garrison House.
·   The area that they are leasing should be defined.
·    Storage buildings belongs to Parks and Recreation for housing their
Supplies and equipment.
·   City Manager stated he is seeking to combine the two concession agreements
into one document.
·   City will insure the structure of the building and the Maritime Museum will
carry its own liability insurance.
·   Need to coordinate with Parks and Recreation about use of the building and
other activities on the Garrison lawn so there will not be a conflict in
schedules.
Alderman Adams commended the Maritime Committee for their efforts to resolve
the Maritime Museum issue.
Mayor Spencer told the Board that Alderman Brown was out of town and relayed
his support of the Maritime Museum Committee's recommendation.
e)   Consideration of Proposed Contract to audit Accounts for Year Ending June
30, 2009
Ms. Patty Miller, Finance Officer presented the audit contract for
consideration by the Board.
Alderman Fisher moved, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to approve the audit
contract with Brock, Berry, Padgett & Chandler, PLCC to audit the City accounts
for year ending June 30, 2009. The vote of approval was unanimous. (Audit
contract on file in the office of the Clerk and Finance Officer)
f)    Consideration of Resolution Amending the Sewer Policy for properties
annexed into the City by City Initiated annexation.
Attorney Isenberg explained that this Resolution amends the sewer policy
because of a question making it clear if someone passed their property on by
deed or will to their children, it does not require them to connect to sewer.
Alderman Potter moved to approve the Resolution, seconded by Alderman Boguskie.
The vote of approval was unanimous.
RESOLUTION OF SOUTHPORT BOARD OF ALDERMEN AMENDING SEWER POLICY FOR PROPERTIES
ANNEXED INTO THE CITY BY CITY-INITIATED ANNEXATIONS
BE IT RESOLVED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that Section 1 of the sewer
policy for properties annexed into the city by city-initiated annexations
adopted on March 12, 2009, is hereby amended to read as follows:
1.   Any improved property which is annexed into the City of Southport by a
city-initiated annexation proceeding and which is already connected to a
private wastewater disposal system on the effective date of said annexation
shall be allowed to continue to utilize a currently functioning and permitted
private wastewater disposal system until such time as the first of the
following events occur: (i) the private wastewater disposal system fails, or
(ii) the use of property changes to a use which would require significant
modification of the existing private system, or (iii) the ownership of the
property changes, provided, however, that a transfer of ownership by conveyance
or operation of law without consideration to immediate family members shall not
be deemed to be a change of ownership under this provision, or (iv) any
environmental issue arises resulting in a determination of private wastewater
disposal system closure by the State of North Carolina, federal government or
Brunswick County. Upon the occurrence of the first of said events, the City
shall notify the property owner and said property shall be connected to the
city sewer within 60 days from notification by City that connection is
required. Connection shall be made in accordance with the City’s policies and
ordinances existing at the time of connection, and the property owner shall pay
all charges and fees in effect at said time except as otherwise provided
herein. Notwithstanding the above, nothing herein shall be construed to require
mandatory connection to the city system for a private wastewater disposal
system which is functioning and permitted on the effective date of a city-
initiated annexation for routine repair and maintenance which does not involve
significant modifications or improvements to the existing system as determined
by the appropriate permitting agency or authority.
Adopted May 14, 2009.
g)    Consideration of Resolution in Recognition of the Southport Woman's Club
Centennial Celebration
Alderman Fisher motioned, seconded by Jwantana Frink to adopt a Resolution
Recognizing the Southport Woman's Club Centennial Year. Vote was unanimous.
Resolution In Recognition of the Southport Woman's Club
WHEREAS, the Southport Woman's Club is celebrating its Centennial year in 2009,
and
WHEREAS, for the past 100 years, the women of Southport and surrounding areas
have worked to serve our communities through education and activities in civic,
cultural, and social welfare, and
WHEREAS, the Southport Woman's Club provides services through the arts,
conservation, education, home life, international affairs and public affairs,
and
WHEREAS,  the club will host a Centennial Tea in October for the public at the
Southport Community Building and will host a Centennial Gala Celebration on
June 5, 2009, and
WHEREAS, the proceeds from the events will fund children's literacy programs
for the Margaret and James Harper, Jr. Southport Library, and the G.V. Barbee
Oak Island Library.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor and the Board of
Aldermen do hereby recognize the Southport Woman's Club for 100 years of
outstanding service and accomplishments.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that we appreciate your valuable service and commend
you on reaching the 100-year milestone.
ADOPTED, this the 14th day of May 2009.
/s/ Sandra P. Spencer
Mayor
Attest:
/s/Regina W. Alexander, MMC
City Clerk
h)    Consideration of Resolution opposing the transfer of all State Secondary
Roads within Municipal Boundaries from the State to Local Governments
Alderman Fisher motioned, seconded by Alderman Frink to approve the following
Resolution, vote was unanimous.
RESOLUTION OPPOSING THE TRANSFER OF ALL STATE SECONDARY ROADS WITHIN MUNICIPAL
BOUNDARIES FROM THE STATE TO LOCAL GOVERNMENTS
WHEREAS, the State of North Carolina's rapid growth has placed an increased
strain on the State's current transportation infrastructure; and that growth is
expected to continue with North Carolina projected to have more than 12 million
residents by 2030; and
WHEREAS, due to the increases in construction costs for steel, concrete, and
asphalt, the North Carolina Department of Transportation has experienced a
significant funding shortfall over the past several years; and
WHEREAS, the North Carolina Department of Transportation has identified a $64
billion funding shortfall in regards to statewide transportation needs through
the year 2030 and additional funding sources are needed to construct important
local, regional and statewide transportation projects; and
WHEREAS, traditional transportation funding sources have proved inadequate to
address the multi-modal transportation needs of the State, especially highways,
transit, rail, bicycle, and pedestrian facilities as well as the safety and
economic development needed in rural areas; and
WHEREAS, current Powell Bill funding allocations to municipalities is
inadequate to address current municipal street maintenance and construction
needs; and
WHEREAS, the 2007 North Carolina General Assembly established the 21ST Century
Transportation Committee to study the transportation infrastructure needs of
the State; and
WHEREAS, the 21ST Century Transportation Committee was asked to report on
several important topics related to addressing these challenges, including
innovative funding methods, local funding options, urban congestion relief, the
division of transportation infrastructure between State and local governments,
multi-modal needs, and energy conservation with its report due on or before
December 31, 2008.
NOW THEREFORE, be it resolved that the City of Southport urge the Governor and
the North Carolina General Assembly to consider the following:
The current process for transferring roads from the State to local governments
through mutually approved street and highway system responsibility agreements
that recognize the relative importance of all roadways --- not just state and
federal highways --- to the integrity of the major thoroughfare system works
well and should be maintained with enhancements as may be deemed beneficial.
Any wholesale unilateral transfer of all state secondary roads within
municipalities from the state to local governments is contrary to this
principle, would result in denigration of the roadway network in North
Carolina, and is strongly opposed. Any transference of maintenance and
construction responsibilities for highways or secondary roads from the State to
the local governments must provide continuing dependable funding sources for
those roadways at a level acceptable to local governments, including at a
minimum, adequate reimbursement schedules based on roadway lane-miles rather
than center-line miles.
ADOPTED, the 14th day of May 2009 by the Southport Board of Aldermen.
/s/ Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
/s/Regina W. Alexander, MMC
City Clerk
i)    Consideration of Tax Releases
Alderman Fisher motioned seconded by Alderman Frink to approve the following
tax releases. Vote unanimous.
·   Archie Barringer   2008 tax   $ 19.82   incorrect value on boat
·   Mary Ellen Poole   2008 tax   $ 258.34   clerical error
·   Randall White      2008 tax   15.42      sold boat
j)    Presentation of FY 2009-2010 Annual Budget and Capital Improvement Plan
City Manager Thornton presented the proposed budget for FY 09-10 reflecting the
current municipal ad valorem tax rate of .18 per $ 100 valuation. The total
proposed General Fund Budget is $4,346,300, which amounts to a $284,405
decrease from FY 08-09.
Alderman Potter moved, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to accept the proposed
budget, hold a Public Hearing on June 11, 2009, and to schedule the first
budget workshop May 21, 2009 at 9:00 a.m. Vote unanimous.
k)    Renewable Energy – NCEMPA
City Manager Thornton asked the Board to approve an Agreement authorizing the
North Carolina Municipal Power Agency to act as the City Power Agency to
develop, coordinate and administer a Renewable Energy and Energy Efficient
Portfolio Standards Compliance Plan (REPS). This requirement is set forth in
legislation enacted by the North Carolina General Assembly, which requires all
electric power suppliers that sell electric power to retail electric customers
to meet certain REPS.
Alderman Boguskie motioned, seconded by Alderman Frink to approve the Agreement
with North Carolina Eastern Municipal Power Agency. Vote unanimous. (Agreement
on file in the Office of the Clerk).
X.
Other Business
It was discussed that Planning Board appointments are due and applications on
file had been previously provided to Board members including advertisement in
the Pilot.
Planning Board Appointments: Alderman Boguskie motioned to appoint Richard
Bandera to the Planning Board, seconded by Alderman Potter. Vote unanimous.
Staff at the request of the Board will re-advertise for the Planning Board (ETJ
alternate position) and advertise for the Board of Adjustments.
XI.
City Manager Comments
There was none.
XII.
Board Comments
Alderman Fisher reported that he had been meeting in Raleigh interviewing for a
CEO for ElectriCities and a sub-committee will meet to make the final
selection.
Alderman Boguskie reported that the round-a-bout on Moore and Ferry Road is
completed.
Alderman Adams asked about the progress of the restroom behind the Council
Chambers. Staff reported that a plumber had been hired and should begin the
installation soon.
Alderman Adams expressed support of the City repairing its equipment to combat
the mosquito problems this summer and asked that the City not depend solely
upon the County to provide this service. This is an essential service that is
provided to the citizens and mosquitoes can pose a public health issue. Mr.
Cardwell explained that the truck is down and the machine needs to be
calibrated, and at present, the City only has one person who is licensed to
spray. The County will provide this to the City as a free service.
XV.
Adjournment: 9:40 p.m.
No further business, the meeting was adjourned at 9:40 p.m. upon motion of
Alderman Boguskie, seconded by Alderman Frink, vote unanimous.
___________________________
Sandra P. Spencer
Mayor
__________________________
Regina W. Alexander
City Clerk
MAY 21, 2009
BUDGET WORK SESSION
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN BUDGET WORK SESSION
MAY 21, 2009      9:00 A.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor Sandra P. Spencer
            Aldermen Nelson Adams, James Brown, Ed Boguskie,
            Jwantana Frink and Paul Fisher
ABSENT:         Donnie Potter
STAFF PRESENT:       Alan Thornton, City Manager
            Regina Alexander, City Clerk
            Patty Miller, Finance Officer
Mayor Spencer called the meeting to order at 9:10 a.m.
Alderman Brown delivered the invocation.
City Manager Thornton presented the proposed budget for FY 2010-2011. City
Manager Thornton discussed the revenue projections. He stated the sales tax is
projected to come in at 5%-6% lower this year. The projected tax collection
rate is 95% based on an estimated valuation of $912,693,227 with an $.18 tax
rate. He explained that the budget:
·   Maintains the current level of services
·   Includes a Capital Improvement Plan
·   Vehicle replacement program to lease purchase vehicles for the Police
Department.
·   2% cost of living adjustment for employees.
·   Electric Fund Budget - City purchase makes up larger percentage of the
electric fund budget i.e. operation and maintenance with BEMC. Salaries are
proportional on a cost-sharing basis.
The Board discussed the following matters:
·   Alderman Fisher recommended the Automatic Meter Reading Program be included
in the budget.
·   Alderman Fisher and Brown asked about the donation to Southport Primary
School. Alderman Frink requested South Brunswick Middle and High Schools be
considered.
·   Alderman Frink asked about the accommodations tax. City Manager Thornton
stated that he reviewed the local bill and the Board by Resolution can effect
this change. Alderman Fisher differed in opinion stating that a Commission
would have to be established in order to increase the accommodations tax. City
Manager Thornton stated he would clarify this matter with the City Attorney.
·   Alderman Adams recommended asking Progress Energy to increase their
monetary donation to the City. He stated that the City is in the process of
building a modernized fire station with updated technology and a command center
for the benefit of everyone, including Progress Energy. City Manager Thornton
stated that he would check into this; however, he did not balance the budget
based on anticipated donations. Alderman Brown and Boguskie agreed that the
City should ask for an increase; however, the Board is cognizant of the
projects that Progress Energy has constructed and donated around the City.
·   Mayor Spencer asked about providing yard debris cans to new residents. The
finance officer stated that this service has been discontinued, but yard debris
can be placed in large trash bags and placed curbside.
·   Alderman Fisher asked a question about Rescue Squad expenditures  vs
 revenues. He stated whatever monies are received from billing should offset
volunteer fees. City Manager Thornton stated that he is seeking to modify some
of the calls being responded to by the Rescue personnel and if some of the
calls are appropriate or necessary. He stated that he spoke with the County's
Emergency Management Director and Chief Cumbee about this matter. Alderman
Fisher stated if the Rescue Squad is transporting patients, this is good
because of their prior history with response time.
·   Alderman Fisher encouraged the Board to consider renting the Garrison
House, which would generate revenue.
·   The Board agreed if the City is going to repair the City dock, fees should
be increased. City Manager Thornton stated monies are included to enlarge the
dredging area, electrical upgrades and repairs. He suggested fees be increased
after repairs and upgrades are made to the facilities.
·   Alderman Fisher stated that he would like to see the Boardwalk project re-
submitted. City Manager stated staff has been talking with a local architect to
look at the Bay Street/Yacht Basin area to improve the overall appearance i.e.
Ft. Johnston Boardwalk. He will need additional discussion on a streetscape
design and involve the residents, property and business owners in that locale.
·   The upkeep of Northwood Cemetery was mentioned and the Manager stated funds
are included in the budget.
·   Christmas tree and lighting was discussed for Bay Street
·   Alderman Adams (general fund) asked about the $75,000 budgeted in Code
Enforcement for office building. He does not see the need to expend the monies
with departments being shifted and buildings becoming available.
·   It was noted that funds are in the budget for software and computer
upgrades
·   Alderman Adams requested another road be paved in Northwood Cemetery. Mr.
Thornton advised that Powell Bill Funds could not be used.
·   A part time worker was recommended for Buildings and Grounds for the
summer.
·   Alderman Adams asked about the accrual of vacation, stating that new hires
only get 3.3 hours per month and this needs to be reviewed.
·   Caswell Avenue was discussed as a connector road for the benefit of the
community. City Manager Thornton stated this is something that can be
considered under the Capital Improvement Program. The Board discussed
prioritizing streets, i.e. sidewalks, all city streets paved before re-
surfacing.
Aldermen Fisher and Brown stated the Board made a commitment to the primary
school to consider a donation during budget deliberation. Alderman Frink asked
that the other schools be considered. City Manager Thornton told the Board that
the schools are getting stimulus monies to help offset their budget. He stated
the first payment for the Fire Department and Sewer Reversal Project will begin
in 2010-11 and asked the Board to be cautious when considering large donations,
which will affect the budget by reducing expenditures in other areas.
Alderman Fisher suggested waiting until the first quarter revenues are received
and determine at that time if the City can donate funds to the school. If the
City donates money, it should be earmarked for school supplies only.
Insurance: It was noted that health insurance is a major expense at $610 p/mo
for each employee, retirees and Board members. Some of the Board members stated
that their primary insurance is equivalent to the City benefits through Cigna
and they get no additional coverage. City Manager Thornton stated staff could
talk with individual Board members and if the City's insurance is not a benefit
to them, they may elect to discontinue the coverage. Mayor Spencer suggested
additional information be compiled. Alderman Fisher suggested an insurance
workshop.
Powell Bill: Revenues down due to gas tax. City Manager recommended resurfacing
some City streets.
Electric Department: No abundance of revenue to offset anticipated
expenditures. 17% increase from NCEMPA this year. City increased the base rate
and looked at ways to increase fees i.e. conducting load management audits,
increased pole fees. Revenues in the budget are based upon underground service
from anticipated projects. City Manager Thornton stated that he would like to
start the automated meter-reading program and hire an Assistant Utility
Services Director working in the Electric Department to understand the workings
of the electric system whenever the monies are available. They also discussed
line lost, under grounding, the cost of meters new vs. refurbished, and the
cost to implement the automatic reading program i.e. software and training.
Alderman Fisher stated the plan was to increase rates and build the fund
balance to offset capital improvement for automatic meter reading. He
recommended that this program be implemented in FY 2010-11 by taking $200,000
from fund balance. City Manager Thornton stated the substation cost came in
lower than expected and some of those funds can be used towards the automatic
meter-reading program.
Mayor Spencer stated if the fund balance is available, this is the year to
implement the program. City Manager Thornton stated the money is available in
fund balance and revenues may exceed expenditures this year. It was Board
consensus to implement the automatic meter-reading program in FY 2010-2011. The
Manager stated that he would provide a revised budget with this change.
Water and Sewer Fund: Revenues and expenditures balance. Closure of sewer plant
will not take place in this fiscal year. Water tank contribution will need to
be increased because of DWQ rule requiring that the City have one-half of the
maximum amounts of daily distribution in storage. Board discussed operators
being licensed and proper certification. City Manager stated overtime has been
monitored and only in necessary circumstances.
Capital Improvement Plan: City Manager Thornton stated that the automated meter
reader will be placed in the CIP program. Alderman Fisher asked about the
Public Works Building, and the Parks and Recreation Complex i.e. gym. Mayor
Spencer stated that she received a proposal for suggested improvements at the
Waterfront Park. City Manager Thornton stated he would give the suggestions to
the Parks and Recreation Director to explore.
Mosquito Spraying: Alderman Adams stated the City does not need to purchase a
new truck but request to see the equipment operable. City Manager Thornton
recommended that he explore working with the County because they will provide
this service at no cost in addition to insuring that the City's mosquito
spraying system is operable.
Adjournment – 12:17 p.m.
No further discussion, Alderman Brown motioned for adjournment, seconded by
Alderman Boguskie, vote carried.
____________________________
Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
________________________
Regina W. Alexander, MMC
City Clerk
JUNE 11, 2009
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
JUNE 11, 2009     7:30 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, NC
 
PRESENT:         Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
            Aldermen Nelson Adams, Donnie Potter, Ed Boguskie,
            Paul Fisher, James Brown and Jwantana Frink
ABSENT:         None
STAFF PRESENT:      M. Alan Thornton, City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander, MMC- City Clerk
            Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
            Patty Miller, Finance Director
            Ralph Cardwell, Public Services Director
            Randy Jones, Director of Tourism
            Amy Nelson, Planning Director
            Jerry Dove, Chief of Police
            Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
            Gregory Cumbee, Fire Chief
            Charles Drew, Code Enforcement Officer
I.
Call to Order – 7:30 p.m.
Meeting called to order by Mayor Spencer at 7:30 p.m.
II.
Invocation
Invocation delivered by Alderman Brown.
III.
Approval of Minutes
Minutes were approved upon motion of Alderman Fisher, seconded by Alderman
Brown with noted correction. The vote was unanimous.
Page five, first paragraph deleted the words "not and to."
IV.
Approval of Agenda
Mayor Spencer amended the agenda to add:
·   A closed session as item XIII to discuss pending lawsuit under GS 143-
318.11
·   City Manager Thornton requested to add as item IX-h Resolution Authorizing
the Disposition of Personal Property by Private Sale and Negotiation.
Alderman Boguskie moved to approve the agenda with noted amendments, seconded
by Alderman Fisher. Vote unanimous.
V.
Public Comments
Mr. Robert Howard of 114 N. Atlantic Avenue, expressed concern regarding the
sixty-five (65) year Agreement entered into by the City of Southport and
Progress Energy during the annexation process. He stated in approving the
Agreement, the City has waived the right to zone or include Progress Energy's
property in the City's Land Use Ordinances, including future use of the
property. Progress Energy will not pay ad valorem taxes or personal property
taxes. He stated the Board of Aldermen agreed without conditions to oppose
efforts by the N.C. General Assembly and any other entity including the courts
to annex properties owned by Progress Energy into Southport regardless to what
they propose to use the land for within the sixty-five year period. He
explained that the City further agreed to seek that legislation be enacted and
made into law that authorizes, ratifies and makes the Agreement and its terms
enforceable and binding. Mr. Howard stated if the Board did not act
immediately, the Bill would be enacted into law and the only way that it can be
removed is if the Board of Aldermen adopts a resolution requesting
Representative Stiller and Senator R.C. Soles to remove the Bill from the final
reading. However, the Board signed the Agreement; agreeing that they would not
do this. If the Board rescinds its action, the City may be subject to a
lawsuit. The Board should do what is necessary to instruct legislative
representatives to remove the Bill from the House, reconsider its position, and
adopt a resolution opposing this Bill. (SB 315 and HB 347)
Mr. Jeff Ward of 121 E. Moore Street, asked that the City reconsider regulating
sandwich board signs, which direct people to area businesses. He cited the
economic challenges that businesses are facing and the need for advertisement.
He asked the City to help keep the businesses alive and not prohibit the street
signs.
Mr. Rhodes Messick of 6261 Cottage Creek Road, Steering Committee Member of No
Port Southport invited the Board to attend the No Port Meeting June 25, 7:00
p.m., Southport Community Building.
Mr. Phil Arroyas, Developer of the Cottages at Prices Creek expressed his
concerns about the City proposing to enforce the sign ordinance. He explained
that due to the economic climate, this is coming at a bad time. His signs are
used to direct people to his development. He told the Board that he removes his
signs at night and puts them out in the mornings. He asked the Board to listen
because there is a way to do things in Southport.
Cheryl Lappala, owner of Southport General Store (Moore Street) stated the
timing is wrong to enforce the sign ordinance.
Jim Mien, owner of Lantana's Gallery and Fine Gifts, 120 E. Nash Street,
depends on his sign at Moore and East Nash Street to direct tourists to his
shop and he has never received a complaint.
Mr. Cash Caroon, former Mayor spoke in reference to the Bill titled the
Southport Annexation Agreement providing for 65 years of concessions to
Progress Energy, which would relinquish the City rights and privileges to annex
Progress Energy property. Mr. Caroon requested the Board reconsider this
decision and not restrict future generations to have control over their City.
VI.
Committee Reports
Reports included in the agenda packet.
VII.
Departmental Reports
Reports included in the agenda packet.
VIII.
Public Hearing
a)    City of Southport 2009-2010 Proposed Budget
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Frink to enter Public Hearing,
the vote was unanimous.
There were no citizens wishing to speak on the budget. Alderman Brown moved,
seconded by Alderman Boguskie to close the Hearing and to re-enter regular
session, the vote was unanimous.
IX.
New Business
a)    Adoption of FY 2009-2010 Annual Budget
City Manager Thornton explained that the budget provides for no tax increase,
the schedule of fees remains the same i.e. electric, water and sewer rates. The
Automatic Meter Reading program has been included in the budget. The level of
services will be provided.
City Manager Thornton explained, per request of Alderman Adams, that the Board
had expressed a desire to provide some funding to Southport Elementary School.
He projected ABC revenues in the budget; however, once the revenues are
received and if there is an overage of what is projected in the budget, the
Board will make a decision to provide some funding to Southport Elementary
School.
Alderman Fisher stated that it was his understanding that the proceeds would be
reviewed quarterly. City Manager Thornton stated as the monies come in
quarterly, that he would provide the information to the Board.
The Board commended the City Manager and staff on the budget.
Alderman Fisher asked that the Capital Improvement Plan  include non-funded
projects in order to plan for the future, i.e. fire sub-station, Park Avenue
Extension, road joining Leonard Street to Highway 87 for the east side of the
City, new public service area and location, extension of the Community Building
and board walk.
Alderman Brown motioned, seconded by Alderman Fisher to adopt the Budget for FY
2009-2010. Discussion: Alderman Boguskie asked about the funding for the
Automatic Meter Reading (AMR) program. Mr. Thornton stated monies would come
from the Enterprise Fund (Electric Fund Balance). He also asked about property
at Rivermist, it was explained that the City was in negotiation with the
developer, but since this time, ownership has changed. The vote of approval was
unanimous. 2009-2010 Budget adopted.
BUDGET ORDINANCE
FISCAL YEAR 2009-2010
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, assembled in
Regular Session on June 11, 2009 that the following revenues and expenditures,
together with certain restrictions and authorizations, are hereby adopted.
The following amounts are hereby appropriated for the operations of the City
government and its activities for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2009 and
ending June 30, 2010 as per detailed appropriate fund:
SECTION I
GENERAL FUND
A.   Revenues Anticipated
   Current Ad Valorem Taxes               $ 1,560,000
      Prior Years Ad Valorem Taxes/Pena10,000
      Motor Vehicle Property Taxes     45,000
   Local revenues                         547,800
   Accommodation Tax                      25,000
   ABC Distribution                       250,000
   State Shared Revenues/Grants/Refunds   1,115,000
   Inter-fund reimbursements              30,500
   Fire District Fees                     585,000
   Appropriated Fund Balance              190,000
                                                         4,358,300
B   Appropriated Expenditures
   Board                                  175,000
   Administration                         466,350
   Building & Grounds                     313,825
   Garage                                 145,200
   Police                                 901,900
   Fire                                   585,000
   Code Enforcement                       335,200
   Rescue                                 156,980
   Street                                 239,915
   Recreation                             769,580
   Tourism                                173,350
   Solid Waste                            96,000
                                                         4,358,300
SECTION II
POWELL BILL
A.   Revenues Anticipated
   Powell Bill State Street Aid           90,000
   Interest Earned                        1,200
                                                         91,200
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
   Street Resurfacing                     75,000
   O & M                                  16,200
                                                         91,200
SECTION III
SOUTHPORT FIREMEN FUND
A.   Revenues Anticipated
   Southport Firemen Fund Receipts        10,000
                                                         10,000
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
   Southport Firemen Fund Expenses        10,000
                                                         10,000
SECTION IV
ELECTRIC FUND
A.   Revenues Anticipated
   Sale of Electricity                    6,000,000
   Service Charges & Other Revenues       647,500
   Appropriated Fund Balance              150,000
                                                         6,797,500
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
   Operation & Maintenance                6,797,500
                                                         6,797,500
SECTION V
WATER & SEWER FUND
A.   Revenues Anticipated
   Water/Sewer Sales                      1,850,000
   Impact Fees                            124,250
   Appropriated Fund Balance              0
   Interest & Other                       18,500
                                                         1,992,750
B.   Expenditures Authorized
   Operation & Maintenance                1,992,750
                                                         1,992,750
GRAND TOTAL                                              13,249,750
 
SECTION VI
TAX RATE ESTABLISHED
An Ad Valorem rate of eighteen (.18) cents per $100.00 full valuation is hereby
established as the official tax rate for the City of Southport for the fiscal
year 2009-2010. This is based on an estimated valuation of approximately
$912,693,227 with an estimated collection rate of ninety-five percent (95.00%).
SECTION VII
SPECIAL AUTHORIZATION - BUDGET OFFICER
The Budget Officer shall be authorized to reallocate departmental
appropriations among the various objects of expenditure and interdepartmental
transfers as said officer believes necessary. The Budget Officer shall be
authorized to effect inter-fund transfers, not to exceed $1,500.00. Notation of
such reallocation and transfers shall be made to the Board on the next
succeeding financial report.
SECTION VIII
RESTRICTION - BUDGET OFFICER
The inter-fund transfer of monies exceeding $1,500.00 shall be accomplished by
Board authorization only. The utilization of any contingency appropriation
shall be accomplished only with Board authorization.
SECTION IX
UTILIZATION OF BUDGET & BUDGET ORDINANCE
This Ordinance and the Budget Document shall be the basis of the financial plan
for the City of Southport municipal government during the 2009-2010 Fiscal
Year. The Budget Officer shall administer the budget and shall ensure that
operation officials are provided guidance and sufficient details to implement
their appropriate portion of the Budget. The accounting section shall establish
records that are in agreement with the budget and this ordinance and the
appropriate statues of the State of North Carolina.
Copies of the Budget Ordinance shall be furnished to the Finance Director and
the City Manager of the City of Southport, to be kept on file by them for their
direction in the disbursement of funds.
SECTION X
ADOPTION
Copies of this Budget Ordinance shall be furnished to all appropriate officials
of the municipality and kept on file for the proper recordation of receipts and
disbursement of funds.
All passed by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport upon proper motion
of Alderman James Brown, seconded by Alderman Paul Fisher. This 11 June 2009.
The vote of the Board was recorded, as six yes, zero no with none absent.
DULY ADOPTED, on this the 11th day of June, 2009
/s/ Sandra P. Spencer
Mayor
Attest:
Regina W. Alexander
Clerk to the Board of Aldermen
b)   Consideration of Resolution Authorizing Lease of City Property and
Concession Agreement
City Manager Thornton presented the Resolution authorizing lease of City
property (Davis and Moore Street Apartments) and upon adoption of the
resolution; it authorizes the City Manager to lease the property. The
Concession Agreement for the North Carolina Museum at Southport.
Alderman Fisher recommended the word " same term " be changed to "renewable by
mutual agreement of both parties hereto."
Alderman Boguskie motioned to adopt the Resolution Authorizing Lease of City
Property as amended , seconded by Alderman Potter. Discussion:  Alderman Fisher
stated it was his understanding that the Sr. Citizens' Building was to be
available by June 30, but there is some discussion that the Pottery Studio was
not informed of this move, at the present time, they do not have a place to
relocate. City Manager Thornton stated in discussion with Heather Hemphill,
Parks and Recreation Director, at this time, the Parks and Recreation
Department with its current level of programs, do not have the need to utilize
the rear of the Sr. Building. He stated that he requested Ms. Kimberly Caroon
to provide him with a schedule showing when the Pottery Studio anticipates
their move to college annex, realizing that they are behind schedule with the
facility.(Southport Annex) Alderman Adams stated that Parks and Recreation
should be prepared to start expanding its programs and utilize the entire
building. City operations should not be stifled to accommodate other programs.
City Manager stated that there is no formal agreement with Brunswick Community
College to provide the Pottery Studio a place to operate, but the City has no
current plans to ask them to relocate. Mr. Thornton advised that they were made
aware of the possible move. Ms. Hemphill stated that they would be moving
within this fiscal year. No further discussion on the motion, the vote of
approval was six ayes, no opposition. (Unanimous)
RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING LEASE OF CITY PROPERTY
WHEREAS, the City of Southport owns the Ft. Johnston Davis Street barracks
which site the Board finds is currently surplus to the city’s needs; and
WHEREAS, the City and the N. C. Department of Cultural Resources have agreed
upon a lease under which the N. C. Department of Cultural Resources will lease
the City’s property described above for a term of 2 years beginning July 1,
2009; and
WHEREAS, in consideration of leasing this property, the N. C. Department of
Cultural Resources has agreed to pay the sum of $1 per year and to make all
necessary improvements, additions and alterations to the property and be
responsible for all repairs, maintenance, insurance and expenses; and
WHEREAS, N. C. G. S. 160A-272 authorizes the City to enter into leases of up to
10 years upon resolution of the Board of Aldermen adopted at a regular meeting
after 10 days public notice; and
WHEREAS, the required notice has been published and the Board is convened in a
regular meeting;
NOW, THEREFORE, THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN RESOLVES that the Board hereby approves
the lease of the city property described above to the N. C. Department of
Cultural Resources for 2 years and directs the City Manager to execute any
instruments necessary to the lease.
Adopted June 11, 2009.
City of Southport
By:
/s/ Sandra P. Spencer
Mayor
/s/Regina W. Alexander, City Clerk
CONCESSION AGREEMENT
THIS CONCESSION AGREEMENT is entered into this 11th day of June, 2009 by and
between the CITY OF SOUTHPORT, NORTH CAROLINA (City), whose address is 201 East
Moore Street, Southport, North Carolina 28461, and the NORTH CAROLINA
DEPARTMENT OF CULTURAL RESOURCES operating as the NORTH CAROLINA MARITIME
MUSEUM-SOUTHPORT, (“NCMMS”), Division of State History Museums, Office of
Archives of History, whose address is 4605 Mail Service Center, Raleigh North
Carolina 27699-4605.
WHEREAS, on August 30th, 2006, the United States of America, acting by and
through the Southeast Regional Director, National Park Service, under and
pursuant to the power and authority contained in the provisions of the Federal
Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (63 Stat. 377), as amended,
and particularly as amended by Public Law 485, 91st Congress, and regulations
and orders promulgated thereunder, conveyed by quitclaim deed (“the Quitclaim
Deed”) to the City, its successors and assigns, subject to certain
reservations, exceptions, restrictions, conditions and covenants contained in
the Quitclaim Deed, all of its right, title and interest in and to that certain
land and improvements therein described in the deed recorded in Deed Book 2634
, Page 0269, Brunswick County Register of Deeds Office, a copy of which is
attached hereto as Exhibit “A” and made a part hereof; and
WHEREAS, the Quitclaim Deed requires that the Property be used and maintained
for public purposes and that the City conform to certain requirements with
respect to the Property contained in the Quitclaim Deed; and
WHEREAS, the NCMMS desires to use a portion of the Property for programming
consistent with the terms of said quitclaim deed;
NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the mutual terms, covenants and
conditions contained herein, and other good and valuable consideration, the
receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, it is mutually agreed
between the City and the NCMMS as follows:
1.   RECITALS . The above recitations are true and correct.
2.   TERM . The City agrees to grant an exclusive Concession Agreement for the
use of the Property commonly referred to as 103-B Davis Street across from the
Southport City Hall for the purposes set forth herein, consistent with the
provisions of the Quitclaim Deed, for a two (2) year term beginning July 1,
2009, renewable by mutual agreement of both parties hereto upon terms and
conditions to be agreed upon for up to four additional two year terms, all
subject to the right of termination contained herein. This agreement shall
automatically be renewed unless either party gives the other party 60 days
written notice of its intent not to renew in which case this agreement shall
terminate at the end of the then existing term. The parties hereto acknowledge
that the term of this Concession Agreement is subject to the legal authority of
the City of Southport to enter into an agreement of such term and duration as
set forth herein; in the event that a court of competent jurisdiction should
determine that the authority of the City is exceeded, then the terms of this
Agreement shall be rendered null and void, in which event the NCMMS shall have
no claim for damages or recourse against the City.
3.   RESTRICTIONS . No interest in the Property is conveyed hereunder that
would violate any of the provisions of the Quitclaim Deed. Where the terms
herein conflict with those contained in the Quitclaim Deed, those in the
Quitclaim Deed shall govern.
4.   NO AGENCY . Services performed by the NCMMS hereunder shall be at no cost
to the City. The NCMMS shall not have the power or right to obligate the City
in any respect for any purpose without the prior written approval of the City.
5.   RENT; UTILITIES . The NCMMS shall pay to the City $1.00 (One Dollar) per
year as rent which shall be paid on the date hereof and on or before each
anniversary date of this agreement. All rentals payable under this Concession
Agreement shall be paid to the City at 201 East Moore Street, Southport, North
Carolina, 28461, or such other address as may be designated in writing by City
to NCMMS. The NCMMS shall pay all utilities for the duration of the Concession
Agreement beginning on July 1 ,2009. The NCMMS shall maintain all utility
accounts in its own name and shall pay all charges and shall indemnify and hold
the City harmless against all utility expenses.
6.   MODIFICATIONS TO PREMISES. It is contemplated by the parties hereto that
NCMMS will renovate and refurbish the subject property. All modifications and
improvements shall conform to the provisions of the Quitclaim Deed and Section
106 of the National Historic Preservation Act and be approved by the North
Carolina Department of Cultural Resources, Historic Preservation Office, prior
to the beginning of said renovations. Any and all contractor’s or mechanic’s
liens placed upon the property as a result of work ordered by the NCMMS shall
be removed by NCMMS within thirty (30) days of the filing of such lien or liens
in the public records of Brunswick County, North Carolina. The NCMMS covenants
not to make any changes, alterations, or additions about the said building or
premises without first obtaining the written consent of the City and in no
event do anything that shall weaken or damage the building or structure now on
the premises.
7.   USE OF PREMISES . The NCMMS further covenants that the premises shall be
used only and exclusively for public use and any and all activities and
purposes reasonably related thereto, and no part of the premises shall be used
in any manner whatsoever in violation of the laws of the United States, the
State of North Carolina, or the ordinances and regulations of the City of
Southport or Brunswick County, including all federal, state and local laws and
regulations with reference to hazardous waste and environmental protection. To
the extent permitted by law, the NCMMS shall indemnify and hold the City
harmless for any such violation. It is understood and agreed that the NCMMS
shall be entitled to enter into sub-concession agreements with vendors and/or
providers who provide services and/or sell and/or exhibit items which are
consistent with the purposes of NCMMS and the City of Southport Parks and
Recreation Department. It is further agreed and understood, consistent with the
policy of the National Parks Service that all revenues generated on the subject
premises must be utilized on the subject property for additional development,
operation, and/or maintenance. Under no circumstances may revenues generated
from or upon the premises be utilized by the NCMMS for purposes which are
inconsistent with the terms and conditions of the Quitclaim Deed to the City of
Southport.
8.   USE OF THE PREMISES; CONTINUOUS OPERATION . After the renovation of the
subject property is completed, NCMMS agrees, as a material covenant to this
Concession Agreement, to operate the building as an extension of the Maritime
Museum and specifically as the North Carolina Maritime Museum at Southport and
to support the City of Southport Parks and Recreation programs continuously
(with the exception of holidays, weekends, and other normal closing dates) via
mutually agreed upon use of the leased premises. In the event that the NCMMS
fails to comply with this covenant, the City shall be entitled to terminate
this Concession Agreement by giving 60 (sixty) days written notice to the
NCMMS. NCMMS hereby agrees to and understands that no additional use of the
Fort Johnston property is implied nor agreed to in this Agreement. Use of any
property or space by the NCMMS outside of the Davis Street Apartment Building
located at 103-B Davis Street, must receive prior written approval from the
City of Southport.
9.   ACCOUNTINGS . The NCMMS shall deliver to the City annually, or at other
times within two (2) weeks of a written request of the City, an accounting of
its activities including financial records.
10.   ACCESS . The City and its authorized officers, agents and employees,
shall have access to the Property at reasonable times, and anytime in case of
an emergency.
11.   MAINTENANCE . The City of Southport shall be responsible for maintenance
of the Fort Johnston grounds. The NCMMS agrees to accept this leased facility
as is and the NCMMS is responsible for all other repairs and maintenance except
as specifically set forth herein.
12.   ADDITIONAL COVENANTS . The NCMMS further agrees that it shall be
obligated to:
a.   Keep the facilities clean at all times and free of hazardous plagues by
means of adequate extermination systems.
b.   Provide reasonable access to City inspection personnel and provide access
to the United States of America, and any representative it may so delegate,
including the right of entry upon the Property at any time to conduct
inspections.
c.   Use its best efforts to assure that its employees are persons of good
moral reputation, respectable and willing to provide the public a service of
excellence.
d.   Not place, or allow to be placed, temporary or permanent advertisements or
commercial propaganda in the facilities granted under this Concession
Agreement, except those necessary and convenient for the efficient operation of
its activities in accordance with its mission statement. Prior approval from
the City is required for the placement of any advertisement, commercial
propaganda or signage.
e.   As a State Agency, the NCMMS shall provide general liability insurance and
insurance on the contents owned by the NCMMS contained in the granted area of
the building.
f.   Operate the granted area competently, professionally, and in compliance
with the provisions of the Quitclaim Deed.
g.   In the operation of the Property, as well as in the employment or
contracting of services, the NCMMS shall observe federal norms prohibiting
discrimination under title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1969, as amended, and
the Rehabilitation Act of 1973. In other words, it shall abstain from
discriminating against any person or group due to its race, sex, color,
national origin, religion, political affiliation, or physical, mental, or
sensory disabilities.
13.   INDEMNITY . To the extent permitted by law, the NCMMS shall indemnify and
save and hold the City harmless from and against all liability, claims and
demands on account of personal injuries (including, without limitation of the
foregoing, workers’ compensation and death claims) or property loss or damage
of any kind whatsoever, which arise out of or are in any manner connected with,
or are claimed to arise out of or be in any manner connected with, the
operation of the Property by the NCMMS, or any agents or employees of the
NCMMS, pursuant to this Concession Agreement. The NCMMS shall not be
responsible for liability, claims or demands for personal injury, property loss
or damage unrelated to the performance of this Concession Agreement.
14.   DEFAULT . The NCMMS understands and agrees that its failure to comply
with any of the provisions of this Concession Agreement shall constitute an
event of default. The default shall exist at the time of the failure to comply
with the provisions of this Concession Agreement, whether or not either party
has notice. The NCMMS also understands and agrees that the City may elect, at
the City’s option, any single remedy or penalty or any combination of remedies
and penalties, as available.
15.   REGULATIONS . The NCMMS agrees to adhere to and comply with any and all
federal, state and local safety laws, regulations, and ordinances, including by
not limited to, all building and fire codes established to ensure safety of
occupants as well as secure the building prior to or during storm events. The
NCMMS shall within thirty (30) days of the completion of the renovation of the
property provide written copies of its safety policy statement regarding its
intent to assure compliance with the safety regulations and laws. If the plan
is not in compliance with the aforementioned federal, state and local safety
laws, regulations and ordinances, the NCMMS shall be given thirty (30) days to
produce a compliant safety policy and program. If the NCMMS fails to comply,
the City may terminate this Concession Agreement immediately.
16.   REMOVAL OF HAZARDS . The NCMMS shall be responsible for keeping the
Property clear, safe and free from hazards that could result in personal injury
or property damage and for reporting hazards to the City.
17.   TERMINATION PROVISION . In addition to any other termination provision
contained herein, the failure of the NCMMS to observe any of the provisions of
this Concession Agreement shall constitute a breach of the Concession Agreement
for which the City may terminate the Concession Agreement upon providing the
NCMMS (60) sixty days written notice. In addition, City may terminate this
Concession Agreement upon 60 days written notice in the event that the NCMMS
fails to adequately budget for or fund the operation of the museum or in the
event that the museum ceases operations for a period of 30 days or more. In the
event of termination pursuant to this section, City may take immediate
possession of the premises and NCMMS shall comply with its obligations set
forth in Section 18 below. The NCMMS shall be entitled to terminate this
Concession Agreement at any time upon giving 180 days written notice to the
City.
18.   END OF TERM . The NCMMS agrees at the end of any Concession Agreement
term, should no new Concession Agreement be reached between the parties, to
vacate the Property within (30) thirty days without any demand and without any
notice, removing all equipment of a temporary nature, necessary for the
operation of the NCMMS and leaving the property in as good a condition as it
was at the time of entry thereon by the NCMMS, except for reasonable use and
wear thereof, acts of God, or damage by casualties beyond the control of the
NCMMS, and on vacating shall leave the Property free and clean of all rubbish
and debris. If the NCMMS fails to perform its obligation set out herein, the
City has the option of doing so at the expense of the NCMMS and NCMMS agrees to
reimburse City for said expenses within 30 days of receipt of written demand
therefor.
19.   FUTURE AGREEMENTS . Any executory agreement hereafter made between the
parties hereto shall be ineffective in changing, modifying, or discharging this
Concession Agreement in whole or in part unless the executory agreement is in
writing and signed by the party against whom the enforcement of the change,
modification, or discharge is sought.
20.   DEED RESTRICTIONS . The NCMMS shall do nothing with respect to the
Property that would violate any of the provisions of the Quitclaim Deed, or
cause title to the Property to revert to the United States of America.
21.   CONDEMNATION . Should the building upon the leased premises be totally
destroyed by fire, condemnation, or other cause, or so damaged that rebuilding
or repairs cannot be completed within (1) one year from the date of the fire or
other cause of damage, this Concession Agreement shall terminate.
22.   CONTINGENCY . Neither party shall have any obligation under this
Concession Agreement until the consent contained below is duly executed by an
authorized agent of the United States of America, acting by and through the
Secretary of the Interior.
23.   EXECUTION OF LEGAL INSTRUMENTS . The NCMMS shall, at the request of the
City, execute all legal instruments necessary to permit the City to complete
any financial arrangements which may be required from time to time by lending
institutions wherein the leased premises are required to be used as collateral
for said financing, but NCMMS shall not be required to sign any instrument
which increases or decreases NCMMS’s obligations as set forth herein.
CITY OF SOUTHPORT, NORTH CAROLINA
/s/ Sandra Spencer
BY: SANDRA SPENCER, MAYOR
/s/Regina W. Alexander
REGINA ALEXANDER, CITY CLERK
NORTH CAROLINA DEPARTMENT OF CULTURAL RESOURCES operating as North Carolina
Maritime Museum-Southport
___________________________
BY: Staci T. Meyer, Deputy Secretary
c)   Planning Board and Board of Adjustment Appointments
Alderman Fisher motioned, seconded by Alderman Adams to appoint Todd Coring to
the Planning Board as an in-town alternate member. Vote unanimous.
Alderman Brown motioned, seconded by Alderman Potter to reappoint Robert
Plassman, Larry Coble, James Kefalonitis, John Hamilton, Kenneth Karn (City
Alternate) and Dr. Joe Pat Hatem (moved from ETJ alternate to ETJ full member)
to the Zoning Board of Adjustments. The vote of approval was 5 ayes, Alderman
Brown, Potter, Boguskie, Adams, Frink 1 no, Alderman Fisher. (Note: An ETJ
alternate position is vacant – Davey Herring did not seek reappointment)
d)   Banking Proposals
Patty Miller, Finance Director told the Board that proposals were submitted to
several banking institutions i.e. First Citizens, RBC, Waccamaw and BB&T. She
recommended the City award the banking services to BB&T for no less than three
years, being the City will seek proposals for banking services every three
years. Alderman Fisher motioned to accept the Finance Director's
recommendation, seconded by Alderman Brown; the vote of approval was unanimous.
e)   Budget Amendments FY 2008-2009
Patty Miller, Finance Officer presented year-end adjustments with the following
budget amendments.
Alderman Fisher motioned, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to approve budget
amendments 13, 14, 15. The vote of approval was unanimous.
Budget Amendment # 13
Fiscal Year 2008-2009
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session June 11, 2009, that the following Budget Amendment
be adopted to adjust line items within the General Fund, which are over or
under budget. There will be no change in the total fund budget.
 
General Fund
                               Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section I
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
      See Attached
 
ADOPTED this the 11th day of June, 2009
/s/ Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, Clerk
Budget Amendment # 14
Fiscal Year 2008-2009
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session June 11, 2009 that the following Budget Amendment
be adopted to adjust line items within the department that are over or under
budget in revenues and expenditures.
Electric Fund
                               Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section IV
A.   Revenue Anticipated
      Customer Undergroun$75,000          $7,605,844
         Fees
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
      Customer Underground
         Expense      $75,000          $7,605,844
       Professional Fees ($2,000)
       L/M Installations $2,000
 
ADOPTED this the 11th day of June, 2009
/s/ Sandra P. Spencer
Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk to the Board of Aldermen
Budget Amendment # 15
Fiscal Year 2008-2009
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session June 11, 2009 that the following Budget Amendment
be adopted to adjust line items within the department that are over or under
budget. There will be no change in the total fund budget
 
Water Fund
                               Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section V
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
      Health Insurance   $ 1,000
      Utilities          $20,000
      Contract Services  ($21,000)
 
ADOPTED this the 11th day of June, 2009
/s/ Sandra P. Spencer
Mayor
Attest:  
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk to the Board of Aldermen
f)   2010 Census Proclamation
The City Manager presented a proclamation making the City of Southport a
partner in the 2010 Census. He stated the census is important and the State
Department of Revenue uses the census count for distribution of sales tax
revenues. Alderman Brown motioned to adopt the proclamation, seconded by
Alderman Potter and the vote was unanimous. (Proclamation on file in the
Resolution Book)
g)   Tax Releases
Alderman Fisher motioned, seconded by Alderman Brown to approve tax releases.
The vote was unanimous.
Mark Palmatier       2008 tax    $11.19   Billed and paid to Pender County
William Phelps Chadwick   2008 tax   $47.35   Billed and paid to Leland
h)   Resolution Authorizing Disposition of Personal Property (Fire Department)
Alderman Brown motioned, seconded by Alderman Potter, to adopt the Resolution,
authorizing disposition of personal property by the Fire Department, the vote
was unanimous.
Resolution Authorizing the Disposition of Certain Personal Property by Private
Sale and Negotiation
Whereas, the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport desires to dispose of
certain surplus property of the City of Southport; and
Whereas, said personal property is valued at less than $30,000 for any one item
or group of similar items; and
Whereas, said personal property is approximately 30 years old and was purchased
second hand; and
Whereas, said personal property was replaced in 2008 with grant proceeds; and
Whereas, said personal property has been requested by another unit of
government and wishes to purchase from the City for no less than $1.00 pursuant
to G.S. 160A-274.
Now, Therefore Be It Resolved by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular
meeting on June 11, 2009
1)   The following described property is hereby declared to be surplus to needs
of the City:
   Safe Air System SCBA fill station
   Serial Number V3A3308630, Eagle Systems
   Last Inspected Date 5/23/2008
Adopted, this the 11 day of June 2009.
/s/ Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, City Clerk
X.
Other Business
a)   Power Point Presentation on Signs
City Manager Thornton explained that the purpose of the power point
presentation on signs is to discuss the illegal proliferation of signs in the
City. Staff is not advocating eliminating the signs; however, in accordance
with the existing City Code, the majority of the signs are illegal, which has
become an issue. Staff is trying to determine how to address the situation,
which has become a liability and is dangerous in public rights of way.
Amy Nelson, City Planner gave a power point presentation on illegal signs that
currently exist. She explained that some of the signs are a public safety issue
and signs in the City rights of way are illegal. She cited Section 17-3 noting
signs that are prohibited. Downtown Southport Inc. (DSI) is putting up a kiosk
at BB&T with a map that will list members with their location marked on the
map. She is currently doing research on off premise signs better known as way
finding signs which guide people to attractions, businesses, and points of
interest that are not on the main thoroughfare. She stated Moore and Howe
Streets are state maintained roads and the state does not allow signs on their
rights of way and will remove them. Staff is seeking ways to remove some of the
clutter while being aesthetically pleasing. Sandwich Board signs are legal, but
should be located on the person's property.
Alderman Fisher stated the City must be judicious in looking at this issue
because of the City's design. He stated that some homes are located in the City
rights of way. City Manager Thornton noted that this is a delicate issue and
the purpose of bringing this to the Board's attention is to let the public know
that there are restrictions currently in place.
Alderman Adams recommended a sign workshop. Alderman Potter suggested the
Planning Board continue with its study, the Board agreed by consensus.
XI.
City Manager Comments
·   Staff preparing the City for the Fourth of July Celebration
·   Department of Transportation working on Leonard Street
·   Application filed for American Recovery Program for stimulus monies for the
sewer reversal project
·   City will submit an application seeking funds for the Fire Department
Project
XII.
Board Comments
Alderman Fisher voiced concern about the following:
·   Safety of streets on the east side of town due to speeders trying to catch
the ferry and recommended being proactive by installing ridges or four way stop
signs.
·   Recommended a golf cart ordinance be enacted due to the number of golf
carts on the streets and teenagers are driving some of them.
·   Recommended the Garrison House be revisited and consideration be given to
renting the facility because the Board changed the original policy and decided
not to rent the facility.
Alderman Adams suggested rental of the Garrison House be given to the Fort
Johnston Committee for consideration and let them present a recommendation
within sixty days.
Randy Jones in answer to a question stated the City did not have a formal
policy on rental of the Garrison House, the former Committee recommended it and
fees were established accordingly. Alderman Brown confirmed Mr. Jones statement
and suggested the Committee re-visit this request.
Alderman Fisher motioned to place rental of the Garrison House on the July
agenda, seconded by Alderman Frink. The votes were two ayes, Aldermen Fisher,
Frink and four noes; Aldermen Adams, Potter, Boguskie and Brown. (Motion
failed)
Alderman Adams motioned that the Fort Johnston Committee re-visit rental of the
Garrison House and bring a recommendation back at the August meeting, seconded
by Alderman Frink. The vote of approval was unanimous.
Alderman Boguskie noted that the Garrison House was previously rented and did
not generate much revenue. He also noted that some of the footage has been lost
due to the recently installed restrooms.
Mayor Spencer requested the Fort Johnston Committee bring a recommendation to
the August meeting on the proposal by Southport Historical Society to use the
Garrison House.
Alderman Adams motioned, seconded by Alderman Brown to adopt a policy
prohibiting fishing from the bulkheads along the entire length of Waterfront
Park . The vote of approval was unanimous.
XIII.
Executive Session – 9:26 P.M.
Alderman Brown motioned to enter closed session, seconded by Alderman Potter to
consult with the City Attorney on legal matters. The vote was unanimous.
Regular Session Reconvened – 9:50 P.M.
Mayor Spencer called the meeting back to order.
Alderman Fisher motioned, seconded by Alderman Potter to adopt a Resolution
requesting the withdrawal of SB 315 – HB 347 from further consideration by the
N.C. General Assembly. The vote of approval was unanimous.
RESOLUTION REQUESTING WITHDRAWAL OF SB 315 – HB 347 FROM FURTHER CONSIDERATION
BY THE NC GENERAL ASSEMBLY
WHEREAS, the City of Southport Board of Aldermen has reconsidered its
commitment to the necessity of entering into a long-term agreement with
Progress Energy to accomplish the goals and objectives of the City of Southport
for effective and progressive municipal growth, and
WHEREAS, the City of Southport strongly believes that the rescission of
currently introduced legislation known as HB 347 – SB 315 would be in the best
interests of the citizens of Southport.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT DULY RESOLVED, that the City of Southport Board of
Aldermen respectfully requests that its legislative contingent seek the
withdrawal of HB 347 and SB 315 from further consideration by the North
Carolina General Assembly.
ADOPTED ON THIS THE 11h DAY OF JUNE 2009.
/s/ Sandra P. Spencer
Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC  
XIV.
Adjournment – 9:55 P.M.
There being no further business, the meeting adjourned upon motion of Alderman
Potter, seconded by Alderman Adams, the vote unanimous.
/s/ Sandra P. Spencer
Sandra P. Spencer
Mayor
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Regina W. Alexander, MMC
City Clerk
Executive Session
 
Executive Session Minutes June 11, 2009
 
The City Attorney advised the Board of the status of the lawsuit with South
Brunswick Sanitary District particularly the City's motion for summary judgment
to be heard on June 29, 2009.
Attorney Isenberg advised that the City's annexation had been challenged. The
City has fifteen (15) days to respond; however, he would file an extension to
give staff sufficient time to pull together the documents. Attorney Isenberg
then reviewed several different alternatives, which the Board should consider
in defending this lawsuit, and he further advised the Board that he would
consult with them later after he had the opportunity to talk to the attorney
for the challenging parties.
Attorney Isenberg discussed the Progress Energy Agreement with the Board and
advised them as to the City's obligations under the Agreement. He advised the
Board that withdrawing their support for the local bills would be contrary to
the terms of the Agreement but he could not tell them at that time what
remedies Progress Energy might pursue.
The Board discussed the Agreement with the City Attorney and the possible
effect on its annexation if it would withdraw support for the local bills. The
members expressed a general desire not to bind future boards for 65 years.
Alderman Potter motioned to re-enter regular session, seconded by Alderman
Boguskie. Vote unanimous.
____________________________
Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
_________________________
Regina W. Alexander, MMC
City Clerk
JUNE 22, 2009
SPECIAL MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
JUNE 22, 2009     4:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, NC
 
PRESENT:          Mayor Sandra P. Spencer
            Aldermen Nelson E. Adams, Donnie Potter, James Brown,
            Ed Boguskie, Jwantana Frink and Paul Fisher
ABSENT:         None
STAFF PRESENT:      M. Alan Thornton, City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander, MMC, City Clerk
            Patty Miller, Finance Director
            Carter Hubard, Engineer, W.K. Dickson
I.
Call to Order – 4:00 p.m.
Mayor Spencer called the meeting to order at 4:06 p.m.
II.
Invocation
Alderman Boguskie pronounced the invocation.
III.
Purpose of Special Meeting
City Manager Thornton explained that the Clean Water Management Trust Fund
Board of Trustees requested that the City accept an amendment to reimburse the
Clean Water Management Trust Fund $1.686 million. These funds were designated
to purchase a 400-acre tract of land near Sunny Point for a spray irrigation
system for wastewater that was to be treated by the Brunswick Sanitary
District. The contract with SBSD was terminated and the City entered into an
Agreement with Brunswick County; therefore, plans changed. The land is not
being used for a spray field, but staff has been in negotiations with the
County for use of the site, but not within the timeframe originally proposed.
The City in June requested the Clean Water Management Trust Fund forgive the
debt, but that request has been denied. The City has made application for
stimulus monies for other projects, and if the $1.686 million is not repaid, it
will have a negative impact on additional funding. City Manager Thornton stated
Southport is in a good position to receive stimulus monies for other sewer/
water projects contingent upon the amendment being approved by the Board. The
amendment must be signed before consideration of the City's application. The
Clean Water Management Trust Board will meet with Construction Grants and Loans
on June 24 to discuss the City's project and make a decision on the potential
distribution of stimulus funds.
Alderman Fisher recommended waiting until July 1 before repaying the money.
Alderman Adams favored repaying the money and the City will own the land
without restrictions.
Mayor Spencer noted that the financial climate is different from the time the
grant was received.
Alderman Potter motioned, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to approve the amended
agreement to repay Clean Water Management Trust the $1.686 million. The votes
were five ayes , Aldermen Potter, Brown, Boguskie, Adams and Frink. One no
vote, Alderman Fisher. Motion passed.
IV.
Adjournment – 4:55 p.m.
No further business, Alderman Brown motioned to adjourn, seconded by Alderman
Potter. The vote was unanimous.
____________________________
Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
__________________________
Regina W. Alexander, MMC
City Clerk
JULY 9, 2009
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
JULY 9, 2009      ALDERMEN CHAMBERS
SOUTHPORT, N. C.  7:30 P.M.
 
PRESENT:         Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
            Aldermen Nelson Adams, James Brown, Jwantana Frink, and
            Paul Fisher
BOARD MEMBERS ABSENT:   Aldermen Ed Boguskie and Donnie Potter
STAFF PRESENT:      Alan Thornton, City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander, MMC
            Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
            Amy Nelson, City Planner
            Patty Miller, Finance Officer
            Jerry Dove, Chief of Police
            Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
            Randy Jones, Director of Tourism
            Greg Cumbee, Fire Chief
            Ralph Cardwell, Director of Public Utilities
I.
Call to Order – 7:30 p.m.
Mayor Spencer called the meeting to order at 7:32 p.m.
II.
Invocation
Reverend Charles Drew, Pastor of the Lighthouse Pentecostal Church, Bolivia,
N.C. delivered the invocation.
III.
Minutes
Alderman Fisher moved, seconded by Alderman Frink to approve the minutes from
June 11, 2009 regular meeting, June 22 special meeting and May 21 budget
workshop. The vote of approval was unanimous.
IV.
Approval of Agenda
The agenda was amended upon motion of Alderman Fisher, seconded by Alderman
Frink to add the following items. Vote carried.
·   Item XIII. A closed session to discuss annexation issues, IX. d) ABC Board
Appointment, IX. e) Tax Release
V.
Public Comments
Mr. John Elliott, Eastern Regional Manager for Progress Energy, expressed the
Company's disappointment with the decision made by the Board to breach its
annexation agreement . He stated that the Agreement was initiated by the City
of Southport. Based on Progress Energy's long-standing relationship with
Southport, they were supportive, responsive, and the arrangement was negotiated
in good faith to help Southport achieve its growth objectives. The company is
evaluating its options pertaining to Board action, and the City will be
notified when the company decides on a course of action. He stated that
Progress Energy would continue to work with the City to restore its
relationship, which is essential in a community with one of its largest
corporate citizens. He asked that the City repeal its Annexation Ordinance for
the Brunswick Nuclear Plant property, which will restore the collaborative
process that will lead to a consensus and long term decisions that will be
important to insure that everyone who has a stake in this issue are on board in
the process. In conclusion, he stated that the company's relationship with
Southport has been forged over decades and they remain committed to the
relationship.
VI.
Committee Reports
Reports included in agenda packet.
VII.
Departmental Reports
Reports included in agenda packet.
VIII.
Public Presentations
a)    Center for Municipal Solutions – Rusty Monroe
Amy Nelson, City Planner introduced Mr. Rusty Monroe from the
telecommunications industry. She requested that he speak before the Board
because of an issue that came before the Planning Board concerning the City's
Telecommunications Ordinance. Ms. Nelson stated that changes are taking place
in the telecommunications industry and the City needs enhanced control over
what companies propose to do when they come in to provide a service. She stated
that Mr. Monroe travels the country educating local government on the future of
telecommunications.
Mr. Rusty Monroe, Founder and Owner of the Center for Municipal Solutions, told
the Board that he represents local governments in the regulation of cellular
towers and wireless facilities, which are becoming a frequent infrastructure
issue. He presented a power point presentation and stated a balance needs to be
reached with the industry, public sector, and the Cities in regards to revenue
and economic development. The location of towers is a technical issue with the
effects being visual in regards to location, sighting and construction of the
facilities. He stated within the next several years, 40,000 more towers and
wireless sites would be located in the State of North Carolina because of
wireless internet and high-speed data. He reviewed the City Ordinance and
recommended that it be updated to protect the City and to regulate towers.
Board members were given a copy of the Table of Contents from a model ordinance
that is being used in other areas.
b)    Brunswick Community College – Dr. Stephen Greiner
Dr. Stephen Greiner, President of Brunswick Community College, discussed plans
for an off campus center in Southport (Lord Street). He stated that the
Architect proposes to renovate sections of the existing historic building with
more square footage than if a new facility were constructed. The college will
offer off-campus courses in continuing education and regular curriculum and the
renovations will be made in phases.
John Thompson and Chris Lowman gave an overview by way of power point
presentation on the site plans and architecture design for renovation of the
Brunswick Community College Campus located at 717 North Lord Street.
In response to City Manager Thornton, Mr. Thompson stated the Arts and Crafts
building is in the first phase and the timeline for completion is eight to ten
months contingent upon acquiring the necessary documents.
Dr. Greiner stated in order to move beyond the design phase, Trustees of the
College asked their Attorney James Prevatte to work in a cooperative effort
with the City to insure zoning compliance and acquire a resolution to obtain
Caswell Avenue right of way. He explained that according to a structural
engineering report, the gymnasium is structurally sound and can be renovated in
another phase of the project when funds are available.
Alderman Adams questioned whether staff had informed Dr. Greiner that the City
is proposing to open Caswell Avenue. He reiterated that he is obligated to
citizens of Southport, and will not vote to give City right of way to any
organization. City Manager Thornton stated that Caswell Avenue is a part of the
Capital Improvement Plan.
Alderman Frink questioned what effect opening Caswell Avenue would have on the
college. Mr. Thompson stated that it could prohibit expansion because the City
Ordinance would require onsite parking and a portion of their funds would be
spent on construction of a parking lot.
Dr. Greiner stated the land on Lord Street is approximately 3.5 acres. Alderman
Fisher advised if additional acreage is needed, that land is available near the
primary school and the proposed City Park. John Thompson, Architect, stated
renovation of the building on Lord Street has cultural significance and can be
restored with additional square footage for the dollar compared to construction
of a new building.
Attorney Isenberg stated the correct procedure to close a road is to submit a
formal request to the Board of Aldermen.
City Manager Thornton asked that staff be allowed to meet with Dr. Greiner, the
architect and other interested parties to review plans to explore options that
would be mutually agreeable to both parties.
IX.
New Business
a)    Discussion of potential reimbursement plan to Clean Water Management
Trust Fund Project #2005B-513
City Manager Thornton stated that the Clean Water Management Trust Fund is
seeking reimbursement of $1,686,000 in grant monies that was allocated to the
City in 2006 to purchase a 400-acre tract of land near Sunny Point for a spray
irrigation site. The City opted to join with the County to treat its
wastewater, and the existing need was not present for utilization of the site
as a spray field by Brunswick County as it was with the Sanitary District.
Because of not utilizing the land at this time for a spray field, the Clean
Water Management Trust Fund Board of Trustees requests that the funds be
repaid. In exchange, the City would own the 400-acre tract including mineral
and timber rights with no encumbrances upon the property. Staff has been in
discussion with the County regarding utilizing the land as a spray irrigation
site. Mr. Thornton stated as of June 30, the City has a fund balance of $1,607,
252 in the Water and Sewer Fund, of which $900,000 is restricted for capital
use. He recommended the Board make the first one-third payment from the
available fund balance and finance the remaining two-thirds with an outside
financing source.
Alderman Adams suggested the City re-negotiate the terms of the repayment
schedule with CWMTF after the first payment is remitted. Alderman Fisher stated
the original agreement was made in good faith and he does not agree with
repaying the funds. He suggested that a meeting be held with the Clean Water
Management Trust Board, City Engineer, Aldermen and County Representatives to
work out a resolution so that the City will not have to repay the money. City
Manager Thornton cautioned that the Board approved on June 22, 2009 Amendment
No. 1 to the Clean Water Management Trust Fund Grant Agreement, DENR Contract
No. GA07126, CWMTF Project No. 2006A-529 that: 1) The City will reimburse the
fund for Grant 2005B-513 within 365 days of signing the amendment, and 2) no
additional engineering fees will be paid as a result of the scope change. The
City has committed to this amendment; it has been signed and submitted to the
CWMTF.
Alderman Brown recommended utilizing the three-year repayment schedule and if
the City needs to borrow money later to meet its obligation, it will do so. He
then motioned to approve the three-year annual installment plan effective one
year from this date. (July 9, 2010). Motion seconded by Alderman Adams. The
votes were 3   ayes Aldermen Brown, Frink, and Adams. 1 no vote, Alderman
Fisher.
b)    Municipal Records Retention and Disposition (2009)
Alderman Brown motioned, seconded by Alderman Frink to approve the updated 2009
Municipal Records and Disposition Schedule in accordance with the provision of
Chapters 121 and 132 of the General Statues of North Carolina. The vote of
approval was unanimous. (Signature sheet placed in the Disposition Schedule)
c)    Lowe-White Park Project (Bids)
City Manager Thornton stated sixteen (16) bids were received for the Lowe-White
Park. The low bid totaled $505,300.00. The City Engineer and staff consulted
with the low bidder to discuss cost saving reductions. $447,230 is budgeted for
the project and the City has sixty-days to accept or reject the bid.
Mr. Carter Hubard, Engineer stated they looked at ways to reduce cost but to
accomplish the grant requirements for the park, they proposed deleting the roof
for the overlook structure, reduce the footage of the trail, job built
restrooms instead of prefabricated, change landscape plan from asphalt trail to
stone base, and reduce width of trail to five feet. City could assist with the
landscape plan or have it done outside of the contract. Approximate cost
reductions totaled $65,000.
Mr. Hubard recommended testing the concrete and timber piles during the project
to insure that the backfill is compacted properly. He stated this cost was not
included in the contractor's bid, but was listed in the specs. The cost ranges
from $12,000-$18,000.
Alderman Fisher asked if the testing was required. Mr. Hubard stated that the
testing is to insure that there are no potential material issues and to insure
the integrity of the park. Alderman Fisher stated if the testing is not a legal
requirement that he is prepared to vote to build the park without the testing.
Attorney Isenberg stated the City has three options:
·   Award the low bid as bided $505,300
·   Award the low bid with the modifications negotiated, or
·   Reject all bids and to re-bid
It was stated that the grant has been extended one time, and the City has until
June 2010 to complete the park to comply with grant requirements.
Alderman Adams motioned to reject all bids and to re-bid the project. Motion
failed for lack of a second. (Motion failed)
Attorney Isenberg stated that two voting members are absent, and to authorize
the contract, four members must vote in the affirmative.
Alderman Fisher motioned, seconded by Alderman Brown to award the contract for
Lowe-White Park to B & K Coastal dba  as Cape Fear Paving with modifications
and reductions totaling $64,380. The vote of approval was 3 ayes, Alderman
Fisher, Brown and Frink. 1 no, Alderman Adams. (Board will have to re-vote)
The Board agreed to hold a special meeting on Monday, January 27, 2009 at 6:00
p.m. to discuss the Lowe White Park.
d)    ABC Board
Alderman Fisher motioned, seconded by Alderman Brown, to reappoint Mr. Robert
Jones to a three-year term on the ABC Board. The vote was unanimous.
e)    Tax Release
Alderman Fisher motioned, seconded by Alderman Frink, to approve the tax
release for Potter's Waterfront Enterprise, Inc. for 2008 taxes in the amount
of $139.72 because the boat was sold in 2007. Vote of approval unanimous.
X.
Other Business
None
XI.
City Manager Comments
City Manager Thornton thanked City staff and volunteers for the cooperative
effort during July 4 festivities and the expeditious manner in which the City
streets were cleaned.
XII.
Board Comments
Alderman Fisher presented the following for Board consideration:
·   That the N.C. Department of Transportation check the stop light at Hwy 211
and 87 next to Hardee' to determine the feasibility of putting a left turn
signal for the individuals coming from Boiling Springs Lakes area to Southport.
·   That the City of Southport send a letter to the Corp of Engineers to
determine the status of the erosion project on the river. They were asked two
years ago to perform a study and the City has not received a response.
·   That the City inquire about the status of the fishing license exemption for
the Captain Charlie Fishing Tournament that will be held in October.
·   The Electric Committee will meet in July to recommend action to the Board
on implementation of the twenty (20) year plan.
·   The Tax Task Force recommended a Resolution and it was approved by the
County Commissioners of which same will be forwarded to the State asking for a
·   homestead exemption based on age, continuous years lived in the county and
percentage of deduction on ad valorem taxes beginning at age 65.
   (Example)     Age      Years      Percentage
          65       20       25
          70       20       50
          75       20       75
          80       20       100
·   He complimented staff on the preparation and cleanup before and after the
4th of July.
Alderman Frink asked that a workshop be scheduled to discuss the Caswell Avenue
right of way.
Mayor Spencer and members of the Board echoed sentiments of appreciation to
staff for their efforts prior to and after the 4th of July festivities.
XIII.
Executive Session – 9:32 p.m.
Alderman Brown motioned to enter closed session to discuss legal matters with
the City Attorney, seconded by Alderman Frink. Vote unanimous.
(Minutes of the executive session will remain sealed until public inspection
does not frustrate the purpose of the closed meeting.)
Alderman Adams motioned to re-enter regular session, Alderman Brown, seconded
the motion, the vote was unanimous.
In regular session, Mayor Spencer announced that no action was taken during the
closed session.
XIV.
Adjournment – 9:56 p.m.
Alderman Brown motioned to adjourn, seconded by Alderman Fisher, vote
unanimous.
_____________________________
Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
___________________________
Regina W. Alexander, MMC
Executive Session
 
Executive Session Minutes July 9, 2009
 
Attorney Isenberg advised the Board regarding the possible settlement
alternatives for the annexation challenge filed by the petitioners in
connection with the annexation ordinance passed on April 9, 2009. He informed
the Board as to the legal issues involved in the Board voluntarily amending the
annexation ordinance before it became effective as well as the procedure
involved in reaching a settlement agreement with the petitioners in the court
action. He informed the Board as to the advantages and disadvantages of each
method. Isenberg then advised the Board as to the possible legal consequences
resulting from the Board's withdrawal of support for the local bills and the
possible effect of said action on the annexation ordinance.
No further discussion, Alderman Adams motioned to re-enter regular session,
seconded by Alderman Brown, vote carried.
______________________________
Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
_____________________________
Regina W. Alexander, MMC
City Clerk
JULY 27, 2009
SPECIAL MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
JULY 27, 2009     ALDERMEN CHAMBERS
SOUTHPORT, N. C.  7:30 P.M.
 
PRESENT:         Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
            Aldermen Nelson Adams, James Brown, Jwantana Frink,
            Paul Fisher, Donnie Potter and Ed Boguskie
BOARD MEMBERS ABSENT:   None
STAFF PRESENT:      Alan Thornton, City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander, MMC-City Clerk
OTHERS:         Carter Hubard, P.E., W.K. Dickson
            Denise Freund, P.E., W. K. Dickson
            Heather Hemphill, DirectorParks and Recreation
I.
Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Spencer called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
II.
Invocation
Alderman Brown delivered the invocation.
III.
Approval of Agenda
Alderman Fisher moved, seconded by Alderman Brown to approve the agenda. Vote
carried.
IV.
New Business
a)   Lowe-White Park Project
City Manager Thornton stated that sixteen (16) bids were received and the cost
came in higher than estimated. City staff along with the Engineer met with the
low bidder to discuss deductions in order to bring the cost in line with
budgeted funds. He stated the Board has the option to award the contract or to
reject the bid.
Mr. Carter Hubard informed the Board that upon discussion with the low bidder
and staff on cost saving deductions and remaining within the scope of the
grant, the following is recommended for consideration:
Low bid totaled                $   505,500
Potential cost deductions            $    (64,700)
Delete overlook structure roof & 35 LF trail
regular pressure treated wood and galvanized
except decking screws               $   (15,294)
Job built restroom facility            $   (9,148)
AE Services for job built restroom facility    $   1,600
Delete landscaping, permanent seeding/sod    $   (34,093)
Delete 80 LF Asphalt Walking Trail         $   (1,015)
Delete parking lot asphalt paving course and add
timber edging                  $   (4,830)
Reduce asphalt walking trail from 6' to 5'      $   (1,920)
Professional service/materials testing      $   6,200
               Total      $   447,000
Recommend award of value-engineered contract   $   440,800
amount.
Alderman Fisher motioned, seconded by Alderman Frink to award the bid for
construction of Lowe White Park to B & K Coastal dba as Cape Fear Paving with
the above modifications. The vote of approval was unanimous.
b)    Appointment of Dangerous Dog Appeals Board
Aldermen Donnie Potter, Jwantana Frink and Ed Boguskie volunteered to serve on
the Dangerous Dog Appeals Board. Alderman Adams motioned, seconded by Alderman
Brown to appoint the above named Aldermen to the Board. The vote was unanimous.
c)    Procedures for Dangerous Dog Appeals
Alderman Brown motioned, seconded by Alderman Adams to adopt the following
procedures for Dangerous Dog Appeals. The vote was unanimous.
City of Southport
Procedures for Dangerous Dog Appeals Board
1.   Call to order – City of Southport Dangerous Dog Appeals Board
a.   Date, time, place – City of Southport Board of Aldermen Meeting Room.
b.   Tape recorder is running – no written minutes.
* Those of you providing testimony must identify yourself each time you speak
and speak clearly for the recorder.
c.   This Hearing Committee is empowered by the Board of Aldermen to to decide
on matters related to Dangerous Dogs as per Chapter 3, Sec. 3.8 of the City of
Southport Code of Ordinances.
* This is an appeals process and any further appeal will be heard in Superior
Court.
2.   Introductions of Committee Members and Attending Staff.
a.   The Committee consists of:
Jwantana Frink, member of the Southport Board of Aldermen.
Ed Boguskie, member of the Southport Board of Aldermen.
Donald R. Potter, member of the Southport Board of Aldermen.
b.   City of Southport is represented by:
Mr. Charles Drew, Code Enforcement Officer
3.   Rules under which this meeting will be conducted:
a.   All those wishing to speak will be sworn in.
You do not have to speak if sworn, but must be sworn to speak.
Attorneys, as members of the Court, do not have to be sworn.
b.   All presented evidence will be retained.
c.   Anyone wishing to speak will be heard subject to the following:
1)   All comments are to deal with the issues before us.
2)   Owner and complainant (or their attorneys) are to have five (5) minutes
each to speak. (Time to be monitored.) Speakers are to give any cross-
examination that they have to the Board to ask of the opposite party.
3)   The Committee will approve the credentials of expert witnesses
Any expert testimony given will be for no more than five (5) minutes with a
total of no more than ten (10) minutes for all expert testimony for both owner
and complainant.
4)   Others who wish to speak for either the owner or complainant will have
three (3) minutes each with a total of ten (10) minutes for all to speak.
5)   Cross examination is the function of the Committee and will have no time
limit. Cross-examination questions should be submitted to the Committee by the
owner, complainant, or attorney(s).
6)   Staff or Code Enforcement Officer presentations will have no time limit.
7)   There will be no interrupting of those speaking. All provided testimony
and comments shall be given in a normal voice.
8)   Anyone being disruptive will be asked to leave.
9)   Emotions will/should be under control, but if they interfere with your
presentation, you will be asked to let someone else speak.
10)    Once all testimony is heard, the Hearing will be closed and no more
comments will be accepted unless the Committee asks a specific question of an
individual.
There is no rebuttal or cross-examination allowed for these specific fact-
finding questions.
11)   The Committee will then discuss the case.
* There will be open discussion amongst the Committee.
* A decision will be made tonight, unless more information is required.
* Even if there is a rendering to Superior Court, the animal in question must
abide by the City Ordinance and State Law regarding dangerous dogs.
* The owner and dog address must be known at all times by the Office of Code
Enforcement for the City of Southport.
* Owner of the animal in question is called OWNER, and the person or animal
injured or menaced is called a COMPLAINANT.
* Both the OWNER and COMPLAINANT are to remain for paperwork at the end of the
proceedings.
4)   Ready to proceed:
* Swear participants in.
* Officer to make report.
* Complainant.
* Owner
* Rebuttal
* Final questions by/from Committee
* Committee to discuss and render decision.
Duly adopted on this the 27th of July, 2009 by the City of Southport Board of
Aldermen.
/s/ Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
City Clerk
Alderman Potter moved that Alderman Frink be appointed Chairman of the Appeals
Board, seconded by Alderman Boguskie. The vote was unanimous.
V.
Adjournment
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned upon motion of
Alderman Brown, seconded by Alderman Boguskie and the vote was unanimous.
_________________________________
Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
____________________________
Regina W. Alexander, MMC
City Clerk
AUGUST 13, 2009
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
AUGUST 13, 2009   ALDERMEN CHAMBERS
SOUTHPORT, NC     7:30 P.M.
 
PRESENT:         Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
            Aldermen James C. Brown, Donnie Potter, Nelson Adams,
            Paul Fisher, Jwantana Frink and Ed Boguskie
ABSENT:         None
STAFF PRESENT:      M. Alan Thornton, Manager
            Regina W. Alexander, MMC, Clerk
            Mike Isenberg, Attorney
            Amy Nelson, Planner
            Patty Miller, Finance Director
            Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
            Jerry Dove, Chief of Police
            Randy Jones, Director of Tourism
I.
Call to Order – 7:30 p.m.
Mayor Spencer called the meeting to order at 7:30 p.m.
II.
Invocation
Alderman Brown delivered the invocation.
III.
Minutes
Alderman Fisher moved, seconded by Alderman Frink to approve the July 9 regular
meeting minutes and July 27 special meeting minutes. The vote of approval was
unanimous.
IV.
Approval of Agenda
Alderman Fisher moved, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to approve the agenda. The
vote was unanimous.
V.
Public Comments
Mr. Larry Maisel of 114 West West Street and a member of the Southport
Historical Society referenced the proposal presented to the Board in February
2009. He stated the Historical Society proposed to restore part of Fort
Johnston, establish and operate a Learning Center in the Garrison, and to
purchase four cannons replica of the civil war era to place on the grounds,
which would be a historical park and a tourist attraction. The Southport
Historical Society would continue teaching classes on local history and pay
one-fourth of the utilities. He stated that the City has not endorsed the
proposal and questioned the lack of response.
Mr. Roy Pender  of 766 Skip Jack Circle, questioned the size of trees planted
at Dosher Hospital, realizing that the trees meet minimum City Code. He stated
the trees does not meet the criteria outlined in the plans presented by Dosher
Hospital to the Planning Board. He questioned why smaller trees were allowed to
be planted, and why trees sponsored by the City Forestry Committee partially
paid for with tax dollars was planted on private property. He asked the Board
to determine why the larger trees were not planted.
VI.
Committee Reports
Fort Johnston Committee: Alderman Boguskie, Chairman of the Fort   Johnston
Committee , presented the following recommendation for Board consideration:
"It is the recommendation of the Fort Johnston Committee by a unanimous vote
that the Garrison and or lawn not be rented, leased or any other consideration
given for private affairs. The uses by Parks and Recreation, Department of
Tourism, Fourth of July Committee, various concerts held during the year,
Maritime Museum and public classes held by the Southport Historical Society be
continued since they are public uses."
Submitted July 25, 2009.
/s/ Ed Boguskie
Chairperson
Alderman Boguskie explained that Downtown Southport Inc. was not omitted from
the recommendation because DSI is part of the Main Street program and co-
sponsored by the City.
Alderman Fisher stated that Downtown Southport Inc. is an independent non-
profit organization. He asked about use of the facility by other private non-
profit organizations. He stated use of the Garrison should be determined by the
City in order to coordinate activities that are held at the Community Building
by the Department of Tourism, Parks and Recreation.
Alderman Potter moved, seconded by Alderman Boguskie that the Fort Johnston
Garrison House nor the lawn be rented for private affairs. Discussion:
Alderman Fisher stated the Agreement for Fort Johnston delineate yearly the
progression of programs/activities that is to take place, however; everything
is behind schedule because of Lowe-White Park. The votes on the motion were two
ayes, Aldermen Potter and Boguskie. Four noes; Aldermen Adams, Frink, Brown and
Fisher. (Motion Failed)
Alderman Fisher moved that the Fort Johnston complex be rented in accordance
with terms of the Memorandum of Agreement in which Fort Johnston was acquired
which should be determined by the City Manager. (Motion failed due to lack of a
second.)
Alderman Adams moved , seconded by Alderman Boguskie that the City not rent or
lease the Garrison building or lawn for private affairs or private purposes,
but that the City Manager be authorized to allow nonprofit corporations,
organizations or governmental agencies to use the Garrison complex for public
purposes. The vote was five ayes, Aldermen Potter, Boguskie, Brown, Adams and
Frink. One no, Alderman Fisher. (Motion passed)
Electric Committee – Alderman Fisher reported that the Electric Committee met
July 17 and the City will institute the automatic meter-reading program.
Information will be submitted in September about switching priorities for the
underground project.
City Manager Thornton stated that the automatic meter-reading program is
included in the Capital Improvement Plan. The City has begun the process; a
meter-reading package has been selected and City employees will perform the
project. The process will take approximately two-years for the meter change
outs.
VII.
Departmental Reports
Mayor Spencer commended Chief J. V. Dove and the Police Department on a
successful "Night Out" project.
VIII.
New Business
a)    Disaster Debris Management Plan
Alderman Fisher moved, seconded by Alderman Brown to approve the Disaster
Debris Management Plan. The vote of approval was unanimous. (Plan on file in
the Clerk's Office)
b)    Amendment to Code of Ordinances – Chapter 5: Cemeteries Hours of
Operation
Alderman Fisher moved to adopt the amendment, seconded by Alderman Brown. The
vote was unanimous.
An Ordinance Amending Chapter 5 of the Southport Code of Ordinances
BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport that the
following Section 5-13 is hereby adopted and enacted, Sections 5-13 and 5-14
are hereby renumbered as Sections 5-14 and 5-15 respectively, and the following
amendments are made to Sections 5-14 and 5-15:
(1)   Sect. 5-13 Hours of Operation
All cemeteries owned or under the control of the City of Southport shall be
closed to the public between the hours of sundown and sunrise.
(2)   The reference is renumbered Section 5-14 is hereby changed from Section
1-6(c) to Section 1-6 (b)
(3)   Renumbered Section 5-15 is hereby entitled "Regulation of Old Smithville
Burying Ground."
This the 13th day of August, 2009.
City of Southport
/s/ Sandra P. Spencer
Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk
c)   Voluntary Non-Contiguous Annexation Petition
Attorney Isenberg recommended in order to expedite the voluntary annexation
process that a motion be made to approve the resolution directing the Clerk to
investigate the petition and if sufficient, to certify same, calling for Public
Hearing at the September meeting. Alderman Fisher motioned accordingly,
seconded by Alderman Brown. The vote of approval was unanimous.
Resolution Directing the Clerk to Investigate A Petition Received Under G.S.
160A-58.1
WHEREAS, a petition requesting annexation of an area described in said petition
was received on August 13, 2009 by the Board of Aldermen; and
WHEREAS, G.S. 160A-58.2 provides that the sufficiency of the petition shall be
investigated by the City Clerk before further annexation proceedings may take
place; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport deems it advisable to
proceed in response to this request for annexation:
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport
that:
The City Clerk is hereby directed to investigate the sufficiency of the above-
described petition and to certify as soon as possible to the Board of Aldermen
the result of her investigation.
Adopted this 13th day of August 2009.
/s/ Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
City Clerk
RESOLUTION FIXING DATE OF PUBLIC HEARING ON QUESTION OF ANNEXATION PURSUANT TO
G.S. 160A-58.2
WHEREAS, a petition requesting annexation of the non-contiguous area described
herein has been received; and
WHEREAS, the City of Southport Board of Aldermen has by resolution directed the
City Clerk to investigate the sufficiency of the petition;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport, North Carolina that:
Section 1.  If the Clerk certifies pursuant to G.S. 160A-58.2 that upon
investigation the petition appears to be valid, a Public Hearing will be held
at Southport City Hall at 7:30 p.m. on September 10, 2009.
Section 2. The area proposed for annexation is described as follows:
TRACT "A"
All that tract or parcel of land situate lying and being in the City of
Southport Extraterritorial Jurisdiction, Smithville Township, Brunswick County,
North Carolina, being the same property conveyed to Hutchinson B. White (D.B.
119, Pg 569) and being more particularly described as follows:
Commencing at NGCS Monument "Miller" having NC Grid Coordinates N: 72,202.32',
E: 2,294,255.13'; Thence along a tie line South 28° 25'09" East, a distance of
74.67' to a point; thence along a tie line North 70° 00'52" East, a distance of
39.55' to a point on the Northeasterly right of way limits of North Carolina
Highway 211 a.k.a. North Howe Street (150' right of way width); Thence along
said Northeasterly right of way South 38° 09'20" East, a distance of 72.42' to
a new 1/2" rebar; thence along said Northeasterly right of way South 38°09'20"
East a distance of 142.44' to the point of beginning.
Thence leaving said Northeasterly right of way and along the divisional line
with Blake Family Properties, LLC (D.B. 1538, PG 54) North 52°47'09" East a
distance of 128.59' to an old 1/2" rebar; thence continuing along said
divisional line South 36°34'57" East a distance of 101.95' to an old 1/2/
" rebar on the Northwesterly right of way limits of Sandy Lane (10' right of
way width); Thence along said Northwesterly right of way South 53°15'49" West a
distance of 127.59' to an old 1/2" rebar at the intersection of the Northerly
right of way of Sandy Lane and the Northeasterly right of way of North Carolina
Highway 211; thence along said Northeasterly right of way North 37°08'50" West
a distance of 100.88' to the point of beginning;
Said parcel containing an area of 12,990 sq ft or 0.298 acres more or less.
Section 3. Notice of public hearing shall be published once in the State Port
Pilot, a newspaper having general circulation in the City of Southport at least
ten (10) days prior to the date of the public hearing.
ADOPTED this the 13th day of August 2009.
/s/ Sandra P. Spencer
Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk
IX.
Other Business
City Manager Thornton asked that the Board schedule a work session to discuss
the UDO amendments.
The Board agreed to hold a work session August 24, 2009 at 6:00 p.m.
X.
City Manager Comments
None
XI.
Board Comments
Alderman Fisher presented the following for consideration:
·   Expressed appreciation of the letter written by the City Manager to DOT
regarding the stoplight at the intersection of Highway 211 and 87 near Hardee's
and BB&T.
·   The City is waiting for a response from the Corp of Engineers on the
erosion problem, and waiting to hear from the State about waiving the
requirement for fishing licenses for the Captain Charlie Fishing Tournament
that will be held in October.
·   Suggested the Board send a letter to the Department of Transportation
concerning the City's request for installation of sidewalks on Howe Street; and
to consider installing crosswalks at various corners along Howe north from
Moore, which would be safer for pedestrian crossing.
·   Suggested the Board ask legislators to conduct a town hall meeting in
September to explain the state budget.
·   Recommended the City invite the County Tax Administrator to attend a
meeting to discuss the new revaluation.
Alderman Boguskie commented favorably on the paving of Leonard Street and
thanked the City Manager for contacting DOT. He referenced remarks by Mr.
Pender concerning landscape plans. He stated that after meeting with the City
Planner, it was determined if the landscape plans meet minimum City Code, they
are compliant and there is little that the City can do unless the Code is
changed.
Alderman Potter asked the Board to consider discussing the future use of Fort
Johnston during the August 24 workshop. Alderman Frink also requested that
Brunswick Community College be included. The Board determined that these topics
should be discussed in separate workshops.
XII.
Closed Session pursuant to NCGS § 143-318.11. (a)(3)
Alderman Brown moved, seconded by Alderman Frink to enter closed session to
discuss the annexation lawsuit. The vote was unanimous.
XIII.
Regular Session Reconvened
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Potter to re-enter regular
session. Vote unanimous.
Alderman Boguskie moved to delete Progress Energy from the city's annexation,
seconded by Alderman Adams. The votes were 2 ayes, Alderman Boguskie and Adams.
4 noes, Aldermen Brown, Potter, Frink and Fisher. (Motion failed)
Alderman Fisher moved to repeal the entire annexation, seconded by Alderman
Brown. The votes were 4 ayes Aldermen Fisher, Brown, Potter and Frink. 2 noes,
Aldermen Adams and Boguskie. (Motion passed)
IV.
Adjournment
Alderman Boguskie moved to adjourn, seconded by Alderman Brown, vote unanimous.
____________________________
/s/Sandra P. Spencer
Mayor
__________________________
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
Clerk
EXECUTIVE SESSION
 
EXECUTIVE SESSION MINUTES AUGUST 13, 2009
 
Attorney Isenberg advised the Board of the status of the pending annexation
suit and his discussions with the petitioner's Counsel. In addition, Isenberg
advised the Board that he believed that Progress Energy would be filing suit if
the City did not take some action to remove the Progress property from the
annexation area. Isenberg then told the Board that he believed that they had
the following options in relation to the pending annexation suit and possible
suit by Progress Energy:
1)     Litigate both suits in order to uphold the entire annexation.
2)    Try to enter into a settlement agreement with the petitioners, which
would remove the petitioners' property, Progress property and possibly others
from the annexation area.
3)     Repeal the annexation ordinance; or
4)     Attempt to amend the annexation report and annexation ordinance to
remove the petitioners and Progress property from the annexation ordinance. The
Board discussed each of the alternatives with the City Attorney, but no action
taken in closed session.
No further discussion, motion made by Alderman Boguskie, seconded by Alderman
Potter to re-enter regular session. Vote unanimous.
_____________________________
/s/Sandra P. Spencer
Mayor
_________________________
/s/Regina W. Alexander, MMC
Clerk
SEPTEMBER 10, 2009
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
SEPTEMBER 10, 2009 7:30 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS  SOUTHPORT, N. C.
 
PRESENT:         Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
            Aldermen James C. Brown, Nelson E. Adams, Jwantana Frink,
            Ed Boguskie and Paul Fisher
ABSENT:         Alderman Donnie Potter
STAFF PRESENT:      M. Alan Thornton, City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander, MMC, City Clerk
            Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
            Amy Nelson, City Planner
            Patty Miller, Finance Officer
            Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
            Jerry Dove, Chief of Police
            Randy Jones, Director of Tourism
            Ralph Cardwell, Public Services Director
            T. Carter Hubard, P.E., W. K. Dickson & Co., Inc.
I.
Call to Order
Mayor Spencer called the meeting to order at 7:30 p.m.
II.
Invocation
Alderman Brown delivered the invocation.
III.
Minutes
Alderman Fisher moved, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to approve the August 13,
2009 minutes. Vote was unanimous.
IV.
Approval of Agenda
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Fisher to approve the agenda.
Vote was unanimous.
V.
Public Comments
Mr. David McVeigh, 216 Willis Drive, stated Southport is a destination town and
does not need through traffic by opening Caswell Avenue.
Mr. Bert Felton of 230 N. Caswell Avenue thanked the Mayor and City for support
of the Wounded Warriors.
Mr. Larry Maisel, West West Street and a member of the Southport Historical
Society stated tourism is vital to the community. He stated moving the
Visitor's Center to Fort Johnston would not draw tourists, and proposed that a
satellite visitor's center be located at the Garrison. He explained that the
proposal presented by the Southport Historical Society would generate some
revenues for the City, in addition to paying one-fourth of the utilities. If
the Board decides to relocate the Visitor's Center to Fort Johnston, there
would be insufficient space to establish the proposed Learning Center for
teaching classes and displaying non-maritime items. He asked that the Board
delay action for further consideration.
Mr. Ken Karn, Park Avenue Extension, stated at the last meeting of the Fort
Johnston Committee, Randy Jones was asked to compile figures evaluating the
cost and expenses of relocating the Visitor's Center. He asked that the Board
consider staff's concerns and engage input from citizens in determining the
best use of Ft. Johnston.
Mary Ellen Poole of 217 Willis Drive asked that the Board table relocation of
the Visitor's Center until financial data is compiled to determine the cost to
taxpayers to relocate the Visitor's Center. She suggested the Board encourage
citizen involvement. She lauded the support of the Southport Historical Society
in restoring the Old Southport Jail. She stated Fort Johnson is a historical
icon and relocating the Visitor's Center to the Garrison is not the optimum use
of the historic building.
Mr. Bert Felton, Caswell Avenue, stated in working with the N. C. State
Historic Sites, the division always had their visitor's center in close
proximity but not in historic buildings.
Mr. Cecil Frank of 503 N. Atlantic Avenue questioned what necessitated the
Board to vote to withdraw the annexation.
VI.
Committee Reports
None
VII.
Department Reports
Mayor noted that the reports are included in the agenda packet.
Alderman Fisher stated that the Board has not received reports from the fire
and rescue departments in two months, and requested these reports be submitted
monthly.
VIII.
Public Hearings - 7:59 p.m.
a)   Linda Bryant (Hutchinson B. White) Petition Requesting Non-Contiguous
Annexation
Alderman Boguskie moved to enter Public Hearing on the annexation petition and
Unified Development Ordinance amendments. Alderman Brown seconded the motion;
the vote of approval was unanimous.
There were no public comments on the Bryant (Hutchinson) petition for non-
contiguous annexation.
b)   Unified Development Ordinance Amendments, Article 2, Section 2-2; Article
10, Article 12, Section 12-12
Amy Nelson, Planning Director explained that the proposed change is a text
amendment to the Unified Development Ordinance. She stated that the current
Unified Development Ordinance does not classify electronic gaming operations
within the City.
Alderman Boguskie asked if any of the changes apply to existing businesses
citing: (E) if food or beverage is served, the establishment must meet the
requirements of the Brunswick County Health Department including all necessary
permits and/or licenses.
Attorney Isenberg stated it must be determined if they are a permissible
business because there is no provision in the City's ordinance for these type
of businesses. However, if they were permitted under another classification,
they can continue to operate, but if they are an electronic gaming business ,
they should not have been permitted.
No further discussion, Alderman Brown moved to close the Hearing (8:00 pm) and
re-enter regular session, motion seconded by Alderman Boguskie and carried
unanimously.
IX.
New Business
a)    Consideration of Bryant Petition Requesting Voluntary Non-Contiguous
Annexation
Alderman Fisher moved, seconded by Alderman Brown to approve the petition for
voluntary annexation and to adopt the annexation ordinance. The vote of
approval was unanimous.
AN ORDINANCE TO EXTEND THE CORPORATE LIMITS OF THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT, NORTH
CAROLINA
WHEREAS, the City of Southport has been petitioned under G.S.160A-58.1 to annex
the area described below; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen has by resolution directed the City Clerk to
investigate the sufficiency of the petition; and
WHEREAS, the City Clerk has certified the sufficiency of the petition and a
public hearing on the question of this annexation was held at Southport City
Hall at 7:30 p.m. on September 10, 2009 after due notice by publication in the
State Port Pilot on August 26 and September 2, 2009; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen finds that the area described therein meets the
standards of G.S. 160A-58.1(b) (as modified by act of the General Assembly
applicable to the City of Southport), to wit:
a.    The nearest point on the proposed satellite corporate limits is not more
than three (3) miles from the corporate limits of the City of Southport;
b.    No point on the proposed satellite corporate limits is closer to another
municipality than to the City of Southport;
c.    The area described is so situated that the City of Southport will be able
to provide the same services within the proposed satellite corporate limits
that it provides within the primary corporate limits;
d.    No subdivision, as defined in G.S. 160A-376, will be fragmented by this
proposed annexation;
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that the petition has been signed
by all the owners of real property in the area who are required by law to sign;
and
WHEREAS, the Board of Alderman further finds that the petition is otherwise
valid, and that the public health, safety and welfare of the City of Southport
and of the area proposed for annexation will be best served by annexing the
area described;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of Southport, North
Carolina that:
Section 1. By virtue of the authority granted by G.S. 160A-58.2, the following
described non-contiguous territory is hereby annexed and made part of the City
of Southport effective immediately.
All that tract or parcel of land situate lying and being in the City of
Southport Extraterritorial Jurisdiction, Smithville Township, Brunswick County,
North Carolina, being the same property conveyed to Hutchinson B. White (D.B.
119, Pg 569) and being more particularly described as follows:
Commencing at NGCS Monument "Miller" having NC Grid Coordinates N: 72,202.32',
E: 2,294,255.13'; Thence along a tie line South 28° 25'09" East, a distance of
74.67' to a point; thence along a tie line North 70° 00'52" East, a distance of
39.55' to a point on the Northeasterly right of way limits of North Carolina
Highway 211 a.k.a. North Howe Street (150' right of way width); Thence along
said Northeasterly right of way South 38° 09'20" East, a distance of 72.42' to
a new 1/2" rebar; thence along said Northeasterly right of way South 38°09'20"
East a distance of 142.44' to the point of beginning.
Thence leaving said Northeasterly right of way and along the divisional line
with Blake Family Properties, LLC (D.B. 1538, PG 54) North 52°47'09" East a
distance of 128.59' to an old 1/2" rebar; thence continuing along said
divisional line South 36°34'57" East a distance of 101.95' to an old 1/2" rebar
on the Northwesterly right of way limits of Sandy Lane (10' right of way
width); Thence along said Northwesterly right of way South 53°15'49" West a
distance of 127.59' to an old 1/2" rebar at the intersection of the Northerly
right of way of Sandy Lane and the Northeasterly right of way of North Carolina
Highway 211; thence along said Northeasterly right of way North 37°08'50" West
a distance of 100.88' to the point of beginning;
Said parcel containing an area of 12,990 sq ft or 0.298 acres more or less.
This being the same property as shown on a plat entitled "Annexation Plat of
the Hutchinson B. White Property" recorded in Map Cabinet ____ page ___ of the
Brunswick County Registry.
Section 2. Upon and after September 10, 2009 the above-described territory and
its citizens and property shall be subject to all debts, laws, ordinances and
regulations in force in the City of Southport and shall be entitled to the same
privileges and benefits as other parts of the City of Southport. Said territory
shall be subject to municipal taxes according to G.S. 160A-58.10
Section 3. The Mayor of the City of Southport shall cause to be recorded in the
office of the Register of Deeds of Brunswick County, and in the office of the
Secretary of State at Raleigh, North Carolina, an accurate map of the annexed
territory, described in Section 1 above, together with a duly certified copy of
this ordinance. Such a map shall also be delivered to the County Board of
Elections, as required by G.S. 163-288.1.
Adopted the 10th day of September 2009.
/s/ Sandra P. Spencer
Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
City Clerk
b)    Unified Development Ordinance Amendments
Attorney Isenberg advised to adopt the text amendments, the general statutes
requires the Board to find that:
·   It is consistent with the Land Use Plan, and
·   Why the amendments are in the best interest of the public
Attorney Isenberg advised that this class of business is not defined in the UDO
and should be addressed.
Alderman Brown stated that it is in the best interest of the public to regulate
the hours of operation and the distance from other businesses to comply with
the City's Land Use Plan.
Alderman Fisher stated it is in the public's interest for orderly development
in certain areas of the City, health and safety of adults and children; i.e.
schools and day care centers.
Alderman Brown moved, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to adopt an Ordinance
Amending the City of Southport Unified Development Ordinance, With Respect to
Conditional Uses for the reasons cited above and to adopt the resolution
accordingly. The vote of approval was unanimous.
RESOLUTION APPROVING TEXT AMENDMENT TO UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
THAT WHEREAS, the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance and other
land use ordinances that control land development within both the City’s
incorporated areas and within its extraterritorial area; and
WHEREAS, in order to promote the public health, safety and general welfare and
to promote the best interest of the city and community, it is necessary for the
City Board of Aldermen from time to time to consider appropriate revisions,
modifications and additions to the city’s land use ordinances; and
WHEREAS, the City Planner has prepared and submitted to the Planning Board
proposed amendments to Article 2, Section 2-2, Article 10 and Article 12,
Section 12-18, of the Southport Unified Development Ordinance; and
WHEREAS, the Planning Board has considered this matter and has recommended that
these proposed amendments to the Unified Development Ordinance be approved; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to N. C. General Statutes and city ordinances, a public
hearing, properly noticed , was held on September 10, 2009, before the Board of
Aldermen regarding this issue; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen hereby finds that these proposed amendments to
the Unified Development Ordinance are consistent with the Southport CAMA Land
Use Plan; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that these amendments are
reasonable and in the public interest in that (i) this type of use or business
is not addressed in the Unified Development Ordinance and should be, (ii) these
amendments are necessary to promote orderly growth and development in the
Highway Commercial District, and (iii) regulation of these uses is necessary to
promote the public safety and general welfare of the community by restricting
the hours of operation and proximity of said businesses to residential areas,
schools, churches etc;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that the
attached amendments and additions to the Southport Unified Development
Ordinance are hereby approved and adopted.
This 10th day of September 2009.
City of Southport
By:
/s/ Sandra P. Spencer
Mayor
ATTEST:
s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
Clerk
AMENDMENT TO CITY OF SOUTHPORT UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
TEXT AMENDMENT # 09-08-20-01
An Ordinance Amending the City of Southport Unified Development Ordinance, With
Respect to Conditional Uses
AMEND:
1)    Article 2, BASIC DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS
Section 2-2 “Definitions of Basic Terms” is hereby amended by adding the
following definition in alphabetical sequence:
Electronic Gaming Operations.
Any business enterprise, whether as a principal or an accessory use, where
persons utilize electronic machines, including but not limited to computers and
gaming terminals, to conduct games of chance, including sweepstakes, and where
cash, merchandise or other items of value are redeemed or otherwise
distributed, whether or not the value of such distribution is determined by
electronic games played or by predetermined odds. This term includes, but is
not limited to internet cafes, internet sweepstakes, beach sweepstakes or
cybercafés. This does not include any lottery approved by the State of North
Carolina.
2)    ARTICLE 10: TABLE OF PERMITTED USES:
The Table of Permitted Uses is hereby amended by adding “Electronic Gaming
Operations“and by placing a “C” entry in the HC (Highway Commercial) column.
3)    ARTICLE 12: ZONING & CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT APPROVAL
Section 12-18: Table of Regulations for Conditional Uses
“Table of Regulations for Conditional Uses”, is hereby amended by adding a new
section, to be inserted in alphabetical sequence, to read as follows:
Use: Electronic Gaming Operations, Conditional Use District: HC
Use – Electronic Gaming Operations. The following specific provisions shall be
met as minimum standards prior to the approval of any business engaging in
electronic gaming operations as a conditional use in the Highway Commercial
(HC) zoning district.
(A)   Days/Hours of operation: businesses engaging in electronic gaming
operations activities may operate from 8:00 am until 12:00 midnight each day,
seven (7) days per week.
(B)   The maximum number of machines/ terminals/ computers for any electronic
gaming operations business is 20.
(C)   Minimum paved parking spaces:
(1)   One (1) space per every two (2) terminals or one (1) space per every one
hundred (100) square feet of total floor area, whichever is greater;
(2)   One (1) handicapped space per every twenty five (25) or fewer spaces;
(3)   One (1) in every eight (8) accessible spaces, but not less than one,
shall be served by an access aisle ninety six (96) inches wide minimum and
shall be designated "van accessible";
(4)   One (1) additional space per each (1) employee.
(D)   All applicable permits must be issued to the applicant prior to the
issuance of the conditional use permit and the opening of business.
(E)   If food or beverage is served, the establishment must meet the
requirements of the Brunswick County Health Department, including any and all
necessary permits and/or licenses.
(F)   The establishment must be a minimum of five hundred (500) feet from any
building being used as a dwelling or any residential zoning district.
(G)   The establishment must be a minimum of one thousand (1,000) feet from any
other organization engaged in an electronic gaming operations business or any
adult or sexually oriented business.
(H)   The establishment must be a minimum of one thousand (1,000) feet from any
established religious institution/synagogue, school, daycare center/home;
library, public park, recreation area or motion picture establishment where “G”
or “PG” rated movies are shown to the general public on a regular basis.
(I)   A current certificate and straight-line drawing prepared within thirty
(30) days prior to application by a registered land surveyor depicting the
property lines and the structures containing any existing electronic gaming
businesses within one thousand (1,000) feet of the property to be certified;
the property lines of any established religious institution/synagogue, school,
daycare center/home; library, public park, recreation area or motion picture
establishment where “G” or “PG” rated movies are shown to the general public on
a regular basis that is within one thousand (1,000) feet of the property to be
certified. For purposes of this Section, a use shall be considered existing or
established if it is in existence at the time, an application is submitted.
(J)   Measurement of distance separation shall be in a straight line from the
closest point of the buildings at which the internet café/ sweepstakes business
is located.
(K)   No alcoholic beverages will be served or consumed on the premises of
electronic gaming operations.
This ordinance is effective upon the date of adoption, September 10, 2009.
c)   Schedule of Fees
City Manager Thornton presented a recommendation from the Planning Board to
incorporate a $25 Zoning Compliance Permit fee to the Schedule of Fees.
Alderman Fisher moved to approve the Zoning Compliance Fee, seconded by
Alderman Frink, the vote was unanimous.
d)   Resolution Approving Financing Terms for Police Vehicles
Alderman Brown moved, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to accept the low bid of
Capital Ford for $ 64,224.00, award the financing to BB&T for a term of three
years, and to adopt the resolution approving the financing terms for three 2010
Crown Victoria police vehicles. The vote was unanimous.
Resolution Approving Financing Terms
WHEREAS: The City of Southport (the “City”) has previously determined to
undertake a project for three (3) 2010 Ford Vehicles (the “Project”), and the
Finance Officer has now presented a proposal for the financing of such Project.
BE IT THEREFORE RESOLVED, as follows:
1.   The City hereby determines to finance the Project through Branch Banking
and Trust (“BB&T”) in accordance with the proposal dated August 21, 2009. The
amount financed shall not exceed $64,224, the annual interest rate (in the
absence of default or change in tax status) shall not exceed 3.21%, and the
financing term shall not exceed five (3) years from closing.
2.   All financing contracts and all related documents for the closing of the
financing (the “Financing Documents”) shall be consistent with the foregoing
terms. The Finance Director and/or City Manager are hereby authorized and
directed to execute and deliver any Financing Documents, and to take all such
further action as they may consider necessary or desirable, to carry out the
financing of the Project as contemplated by the proposal and this resolution.
3.   The Finance Officer is hereby authorized and directed to hold executed
copies of the Financing Documents until the conditions for the delivery of the
Financing Documents have been completed to such officer's satisfaction. The
Finance Officer is authorized to approve changes to any Financing Documents
previously signed by City officers or employees, provided that such changes
shall not substantially alter the intent of such documents or certificates from
the intent expressed in the forms executed by such officers. The Financing
Documents shall be in such final forms, as the Finance Officer shall approve,
with the Finance Officer’s release of any Financing Document for delivery
constituting conclusive evidence of such officer's final approval of the
Document’s final form.
4.   The City shall not take or omit to take any action the taking or omission
of which shall cause its interest payments on this financing to be includable
in the gross income for federal income tax purposes of the registered owners of
the interest payment obligations. The City hereby designates its obligations to
make principal and interest payments under the Financing Documents as
"qualified tax-exempt obligations" for the purpose of Internal Revenue Code
Section 265(b) (3).
5.   All prior actions of City officers in furtherance of the purposes of this
resolution are hereby ratified, approved and confirmed. All other resolutions
(or parts thereof) in conflict with this resolution are hereby repealed, to the
extent of the conflict. This resolution shall take effect immediately.
Approved this 10th day of September 2009.
Attest:   /s/Regina W. Alexander, MMC   s/Sandra P. Spencer
   Clerk               Mayor)
e)   NC DENR offer to accept American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009
Alderman Brown moved, seconded by Alderman Frink to accept the N.C. Department
of Environment and Natural Resources offer of the American Recovery and
Reinvestment Act of 2009 loan assistance from the Clean Water Revolving Fund in
the amount of $2,648,000. The vote of approval was unanimous.
f)   Resolution of Tentative Award to Construct City of Southport Waste Water
Flow Reversal Project
Mr. Carter Hubard, Engineer, W. K. Dickson Inc., reported that nine (9) bids
were received on August 27. The bids were evaluated and B & K Coastal, the low
bidder had an entry for Item No. 1, Mobilization that was not in accordance
with the requirement of maximum 2% of total contract amount. This was discussed
with the City Attorney and he advised that the low bid of B & K Coastal be
rejected based on irregularity and ambiguity of Bid Item # 1. The second low
bidder was State Utility Contractors, Inc. and recommended awarding the bid to
State Utility Contractors, Inc. for $2,813,995.25.
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Frink to award the bid to State
Utility Contractors, Inc and to adopt the resolution of tentative award for
$2,813,995.25. The vote of approval was unanimous.
RESOLUTION OF TENTATIVE AWARD
WHEREAS, the City of Southport, North Carolina has received bids, pursuant to
duly advertised notice therefore, for construction of the Wastewater
Transmission Facilities; and
WHEREAS, the consulting engineers of W. K. Dickson & Co., Inc. have reviewed
the bids; and
WHEREAS, State Utility Contractors, Inc. was determined by said engineers to be
the lowest responsible bidder for the Wastewater Transmission Facilities, in
the total bid amount of $2,813,995.25; and
WHEREAS, the Consulting Engineers recommend TENTATIVE AWARD to the lowest
responsible bidder.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that tentative award is made to the lowest
responsible bidder in the total bid amount of $2,813,995.25.
      Name of Contractor         Amount
      State Utility Contractors, Inc.      $2,813,995.25
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that such TENTATIVE AWARD be contingent upon the
approval of the North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural Resources.
Upon motion of Alderman Boguskie, seconded by Alderman Frink the above
RESOLUTION was unanimously adopted.
This 10th day of September, 2009.
/s/ Sandra P. Spencer
Mayor
Attest:
/s/Regina W. Alexander
Clerk
g)    Progress Energy/NCEMPA Termination Agreement
Attorney Isenberg stated that the annexation agreement with Progress Energy
dated August 27, 2008 is invalid upon adoption of the termination agreement.
Alderman Fisher moved, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to approve the termination
agreement , the vote was unanimous. (Agreement Incorporated as Attachment #1)
h)    Utility Meter Reading Contract
City Manager Thornton presented a proposal for continuation of independent
meter reading services for 2009 from Ms. Terrilyn Bassett. He referenced the
agreement developed by the City, which mirrors the proposal, changing the term
to one (1) year totaling $48,931.58.
Alderman Adams opposed contracting meter-reading services because he believes
that in house personnel can perform this function.
Alderman Brown moved to approve the contract for one (1) year totaling
$48,931.58, seconded by Alderman Fisher. Votes were 4 ayes Aldermen Brown,
Fisher, Frink and Boguskie. 1 no, Alderman Adams. (Contract Incorporated as
Attachment #2)
i)    Franchise Agreement for Ambulance Services (Mutual Aid)
City Manager Thornton stated that this is a renewal of the mutual aid agreement
between the City and County for ambulance services. Alderman Fisher moved to
approve the franchise agreement, seconded by Alderman Brown, the vote was
unanimous. (Contract Incorporated as Attachment #3)
Alderman Boguskie requested a list of Rescue Squad members and their level of
training.
Alderman Fisher commented that the County is looking at Rescue Districts and
there is a movement to charge insurance companies for the crash truck and Jaws
of Life, which would help the Rescue Squad towards being self-sufficient.
j)    Proposal to place wind turbine at Municipal Waste Water Treatment Plant
City Manager Thornton presented a request from Mr. Richard Holloman, President
of Carolina Wind Turbines asking to place a less than 10 kw vertical axis wind
turbine on City property at the Wastewater Treatment Plant. In a letter from
Mr. Holloman, he states, "the unit is a low RPM turbine that produces energy at
lower wind speeds than traditional horizontal units and the energy generated
would be available to the City. It will be less than 35 ft. tall and a 14 ft.
diameter, making very little noise."
City Manager Thornton explained that this is an experimental wind turbine and
part of the growing green initiative at no cost to the City. He stated that the
turbine needs to be located in an area with consistent wind and Southport's
proximity to water was the most likely location. The structure will be shielded
from public view and is a short-term experiment, and will be removed at the
City's request. City Manager Thornton stated that the North Carolina Eastern
Municipal Power Agency (NCEMPA) and ElectriCities do not have an issue with the
experiment. He stated if it is the Boards' desire to consider this, staff will
prepare an agreement protecting the City's interest i.e. liability.
Attorney Isenberg asked about the permitted use under the UDO. Alderman Adams
suggested the company look for other property since the WWTP is situated on
prime property and he believes this is not the best use of the land. Alderman
Fisher clarified that it is a single device wind sail at no cost and liability
to the City. However, it may establish precedent in determining whether wind
can be used for green power, which will be required in the future. Mr. Thornton
asked the Board if they desired to explore the concept, and if so, staff would
begin discussion with Progress Energy, ElectriCities, and NCEMPA. Board members
concurred to explore the concept.
Alderman Fisher moved, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to direct staff to explore
the concept subject to contract approval. The votes were 4 ayes, Aldermen
Fisher, Boguskie, Brown and Frink. 1 no, Alderman Adams. (Motion passed)
k)   Proclamation Supporting Constitution Week
Alderman Fisher moved, seconded by Alderman Frink to adopt a proclamation
supporting Constitution Week.
PROCLAMATION
Constitution Week
September 17 – 23, 2009
WHEREAS, it is the privilege and duty of the American people to commemorate the
two hundredth twenty second anniversary of the drafting of the Constitution of
the United States of America with appropriate ceremonies and activities; and
WHEREAS, Public Law 915 guarantees the issuing of a proclamation each year by
the President of the United States of America designating September 17 through
23 as Constitution Week.
NOW, THEREFORE, I Sandra P. Spencer as Mayor of the Town of Southport do hereby
proclaim the week of September 17 though 23 as CONSTITUTION WEEK and urge all
citizens to study the Constitution and reflect on the privilege of being an
American with all the rights and responsibilities which that privilege
involves.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I HAVE HEREUNTO set my hand and cause the seal of the town
to be fixed this the 10th day of September of the year of our Lord two thousand
nine.
/s/ Sandra P. Spencer
Mayor
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
City Clerk
l)   Budget Amendment #1
Alderman Fisher moved, seconded by Alderman Frink to approve the budget
amendment. Vote unanimous.
Budget Amendment # 1
Fiscal Year 2009-2010
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
regular session, September 10, 2009, that the following Budget Amendment be
adopted to adjust line items within the Police Department and Fire Department
and to reduce revenue because of the City’s distribution in Beer & Wine Tax has
been reduced by one/third of what we budgeted, which is a result of the
adoption of the State Budget. There will be no changes in the Police & Fire
Department’s total budget, but there will be a reduction in General Fund’s
total budget.
General Fund
                               Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section I
A.   Revenues
      Beer & Wine Revenue(8,700)          4,349,600
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
   Administration
      Insurance & Bonding8,700
   Police Dept.
      Lease Payments     (12,900)
      Insurance & Bonding(4,000)
      Capital Vehicle    16,900
   Fire Dept.
      Dept. Supplies     (8,000)
         R/M Vehicles 8,000
                                                4,349,600
 
ADOPTED this the 10th day of Sept. 2009
/s/ Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
Attest:    
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk to the Board of Aldermen
X.
Other Business
Alderman Fisher announced that the City's fall clean up would be held September
16-19, beginning 8 a.m.- 6 p.m. at Lowe-White Park.
Alderman Fisher stated that the Board was criticized for not acting on the
Southport Historical Society's Plan of Operation that was submitted in
February. He recommended that the Board take no action and motioned to
disapprove the Plan, seconded by Alderman Brown. Discussion: In answer to a
question from Alderman Frink, Alderman Boguskie stated the proposal was to
continue with the original Plan and to place a satellite Visitor's Center at
the Garrison House.
City Manager Thornton explained that there is a proposal on the table submitted
by the SHS, a recommendation from the City Manager, which is not on the agenda,
and an alternative proposal presented from Mr. Maisel, a representative of the
Southport Historical Society recommending that a satellite visitor's center be
located at the Garrison. In answer to a question by Alderman Adams, City
Manager Thornton stated that three employees are currently operating out of the
Garrison House, Parks and Recreation, Travel and Tourism, and the employee that
operates the Community Building.
No further discussion, the votes were 4 ayes; Aldermen Brown, Fisher, Adams and
Frink. 1 no vote, Alderman Boguskie. (Motion passed)
Alderman Fisher moved that the City execute the terms of the initial agreement
that Fort Johnson was acquired under and that the City Manager establish a
schedule to execute the plan i.e. re-adding the river walk, tennis courts,
visitor's center, audio visual room. Alderman Brown seconded the motion.
Discussion: Mayor Spencer stated the plan is not the same as it was when Fort
Johnston was acquired because the Board rejected the river walk. Alderman
Fisher stated that it was rejected because of design. Alderman Boguskie
disagreed stating that the river walk was too expensive to construct. Mayor
Spencer called for the vote: 2 ayes, Aldermen Fisher and Brown. 3 noes,
Aldermen Boguskie, Frink and Adams. (Motion failed)
XI.
Manager Comments
Mr. Thornton reiterated the scheduled fall clean up.
Lowe-White Park contract effective September 8, the contractor has six months
to complete the project.
The City Manager announced the resignation of Stephanie Van Noordt from the
Planning Board. Board requested vacancy be advertised.
Workshop dates presented for UDO amendments were September 14 or 15th.
XII.
Board Comments
Alderman Boguskie asked that reports from the Rescue and Fire Departments be
submitted for Board information.
XIII.
Adjournment – 9:15 p.m.
Alderman Boguskie moved for adjournment, seconded by Alderman Frink, vote
carried.
______________________________
Mayor
Attest:
____________________________
Clerk
OCTOBER 8, 2009
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
OCTOBER 8, 2009   7:30 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, NC
 
PRESENT:         Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
            Aldermen Donnie Potter, James Brown, Ed Boguskie and Paul Fisher
ABSENT:         Aldermen Jwantana Frink and Nelson Adams
STAFF PRESENT:      M. Alan Thornton, City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander, MMC, City Clerk
            Michael Isenberg, City Attorney
            Patty Miller, Finance Director
            Amy Nelson, Planning Director
            Ralph Cardwell, Director of Public Utilities
            Heather Hemphill, Director of Parks and Recreation
            Charles Drew, Code Enforcement
            Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
            Jerry Dove, Police Chief
I.
Call to Order – 7:30 p.m.
Mayor Spencer called the meeting to order at 7:30 p.m.
II.
Invocation
Alderman Brown delivered the invocation.
III.
Approval of Minutes
Alderman Fisher moved, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to approve the September
10, 2009 minutes, the vote of approval was unanimous.
IV.
Approval of Agenda
Alderman Fisher moved, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to approve the agenda, the
vote was unanimous.
V.
Public Comments
Mr. Clay Fairley, Chairman of the Forestry Committee presented a flag and
plaque from the Arbor Day Foundation recognizing the Committee's work in the
area of oak tree give away, trees planted, and Boy Scout recognition for
watering the trees.
VI.
Committee Reports
Fort Johnston Committee – Alderman Boguskie stated the Committee recommended
that a request for proposals be submitted in order to determine the cost for
modifications to the Garrison.
Electric Committee – Alderman Fisher stated the Electric Committee would meet
to discuss under grounding in the area of Fodale Avenue, which services
approximately 60% of the City. He stated that the under grounding could be
constructed in phases; however the Board needs to establish policy requiring
customers to connect if the City decides to go under ground.
He reported on the ten-day outage at the Brunswick Nuclear Plant due to an
auxiliary generator, but at no time was safety a factor. The cost to the NCEMPA
is approximately $3 million dollars.
VII.
Departmental Reports
Mayor Spencer stated that department reports are included in the agenda packet.
Alderman Fisher thanked the City Clerk for completing the application process
to trademark the City Seal.
Alderman Fisher complimented the Public Works Department for implementing the
electronic meter-reading program, Parks and Recreation Department on a
successful Captain Charlie's Fishing Tournament and the Fire Department on
their fire prevention program.
Alderman Boguskie recommended more detail be included in the Fire Department's
monthly report.
VIII.
Public Hearing – 7:38 pm
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Fisher to enter Public Hearing to
consider amendments to the Southport Unified Development Ordinance Amendments,
Article 18; Section 18-4, B(1), Section 18-4, B (C) (2). The vote was
unanimous.
No comments, the Hearing was closed upon motion of Alderman Boguskie, seconded
by Alderman Potter, vote carried.
IX.
New Business
a)   Consideration of City of Southport UDO Amendments; Article 18: Section 18-
4, B (1), Section 18-4, B (C) (2)
Alderman Fisher moved, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to adopt a resolution
approving text amendments to the Unified Development Ordinance. The vote of
approval was unanimous.
RESOLUTION APPROVING TEXT AMENDMENT TO UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
THAT WHEREAS, the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance and other
land use ordinances that control land development within both the City’s
incorporated areas and within its extraterritorial area; and
WHEREAS, in order to promote the public health, safety and general welfare and
to promote the best interest of the city and community, it is necessary for the
City Board of Aldermen from time to time to consider appropriate revisions,
modifications and additions to the city’s land use ordinances; and
WHEREAS, proposed amendments to Article 18, Section 18-4(B)(1) & (C)( 2), of
the Southport Unified Development Ordinance have been prepared and submitted to
the Planning Board; and
WHEREAS, the Planning Board has considered this matter and has recommended that
these proposed amendments to the Unified Development Ordinance be approved; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to NC General Statutes and city ordinances, a public hearing,
properly noticed, was held on October 8, 2009, before the Board of Aldermen
regarding this issue; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen hereby finds that these proposed amendments to
the Unified Development Ordinance are consistent with the Southport CAMA Land
Use Plan; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that these amendments are
reasonable and in the public interest in that (i) industry standard plant size
is not addressed in the Unified Development Ordinance and should be, (ii) this
amendment is necessary to promote orderly growth and development in the
landscaping standards, and (iii) regulation of these uses is necessary to
promote the public safety and general welfare of the community by ensuring that
all commercial installations are governed by the same set of rules;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that the
attached amendments and additions to the Southport Unified Development
Ordinance are hereby approved and adopted.
This 8th day of October 2009.
City of Southport
By:
s/ Sandra P. Spencer
Mayor
ATTEST: 
s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
Clerk
b)   Consideration of Resolution requesting U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to
study and determine the feasibility of developing an Emergency Shoreline
Erosion Protection Project
City Manager Thornton recommended the Board request the Army Corps of Engineers
to study and determine the feasibility of developing an Emergency Shoreline
Erosion Protection Project under Section 14   of the Emergency Streambank and
Shoreline Erosion Protection for Public Facilities. Adopting a resolution would
be the first step towards the Corps developing and establishing an Emergency
Streambank and Shoreline Erosion Protection project for the West Bay Street
pumping station.
He also discussed the potential involvement of the City in a Section 206
Aquatic Ecosystem Restoration Project  requesting the Corps to investigate the
feasibility of a project along the waterfront in the area of Kingsley Park and
the Small Boat Basin on West Bay Street. The City's responsibility would
include funding a portion of the plans, specifications and construction costs
for projects under Section 14 and 206, if approved.
Alderman Fisher moved, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to adopt a resolution  for
Section 14 Emergency Streambank and Shoreline Erosion Protection for Public
Facilities and to authorize the City Manager to proceed with the Corps to
investigate the scope of the 206 project.    The vote of approval was
unanimous.
Resolution
Be it resolved, that the Southport Board of Aldermen request the U. S. Army
Corps of Engineers to conduct investigations and studies to determine the
feasibility of developing an Emergency Streambank or Shoreline Erosion
Protection Project at Southport under the authority provided by Section 14 of
the 1946 Flood Control Act, as amended.
It is understood that, if it is found feasible and advisable to develop an
Emergency Streambank or Shoreline Erosion Project at Southport, the Board of
Aldermen would be required before construction commences to enter into a
contractual agreement that it will provide such local cooperation as may be
prescribed by the Secretary of the Army.
The City Clerk of the Board of Aldermen shall be, and is hereby, directed to
transmit three copies of this resolution to the District Engineer at the
attached address.
/s/ Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
City Clerk
c)   Proposed Agreement for Placement of Wind Turbine on City Property
The Board reviewed an agreement presented by the City Manager with LLC dba
Carolina Wind Turbine to allow for the placement of a single vertical access
wind turbine at the City's West West Street Waste Water Treatment Plant
facility site.
Alderman Boguskie motioned to approve the Agreement, seconded by Alderman
Fisher; the vote of approval was unanimous. (Agreement Incorporated as
Attachment #1)
d)   Resolution Requesting Southport's Hazard Mitigation Plan to be merged with
the County of Brunswick's Plan
Ms. Amy Nelson, City Planner, and Mr. Chris Crew, State Hazard Mitigation
Officer of the North Carolina Emergency Management Office, told the Board that
Hazard Mitigation Plans must be updated every five years; FEMA and Homeland
Security propose more regional plans. The City Planner stated that she is
working to merge the City's Plan with Brunswick County, which will be
beneficial to everyone. Mr. Crew stated it is the federal government and
state's desire to consolidate Hazard Mitigation Plans. If Plans are not in
place, towns will not be eligible for public or individual assistance funds in
the event of a state disaster declaration. If a federal disaster declaration is
made and the Plan is not in place, the town would not be eligible for hazard
mitigation funds. He explained that the City will not lose funds and will have
its own annex in the joint Plan, which will describe hazard threats to the City
and include mitigation measures appropriate for Southport. As a party to the
Plan, the City will be eligible to apply for its own funds. In conclusion, he
stated in order for the City to join Brunswick County's Plan, the State Hazard
Mitigation Office must have a document from Brunswick County agreeing to
Southport becoming a part of their plan. If the Board does not act at this
meeting, the City will be on its own for the next five years.
Alderman Fisher moved , seconded by Alderman Boguskie to adopt a resolution
requesting action by the Brunswick County Board of Commissioners to merge the
City of Southport's Hazard Mitigation Plan with the County. Vote of approval
was unanimous. (Motion passed)
A RESOLUTION REQUESTING ACTION BY THE BRUNSWICK COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
TO MERGE THE HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN FOR THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT, NORTH CAROLINA,
WITH THE BRUNSWICK COUNTY HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN
THAT WHEREAS, on October 30, 2000, the President of the United States signed
into law the Disaster Mitigation Act of 2000 to amend the Robert T. Stafford
Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act of 1988 to reinforce the
importance of pre-disaster mitigation planning to help reduce disaster losses;
and
WHEREAS, North Carolina Senate Bill 300 requires all local governments to have
an approved Hazard Mitigation Plan in order to receive state public assistance
funds (effective for state-declared disasters after November 1, 2004); and
WHEREAS, the City of Southport Hazard Mitigation Plan (Plan) was approved on
November 5, 2004 by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and the
North Carolina Division of Emergency Management (NCEM);
WHEREAS, the City of Southport has been working with Brunswick County on the
Hazard Mitigation Plan update and the planning process involved since the
spring of 2009; and
WHEREAS, the City of Southport now desires to merge said Plan with the County
of Brunswick in accordance with the guidance provided to the City of Southport
by FEMA, NCEM, and the County of Brunswick;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport, North Carolina in session assembled this 8th day of October 2009:
SECTION 1. That the attached “Hazard Mitigation Plan for the City of Southport”
is hereby forwarded to the Brunswick County Board of Commissioners for adoption
as a merge to the Hazard Mitigation Plan for the County of Brunswick, said plan
attached hereto as (Exhibit A).
SECTION 2. That upon adoption, said plan shall continue to serve as a guide for
the various departments of the City of Southport Government in pre-disaster
planning and post-disaster recovery.
SECTION 3. That said plan will be reviewed annually or immediately after a
natural disaster.
SECTION 4. That all reports and changes shall be submitted to the North
Carolina Division of Emergency Management and the Federal Emergency Management
Agency every five years.
Adopted this 8th day of October 2009.
/s/ Sandra Spencer, Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina Alexander, City Clerk
e)   Budget Amendments Nos. 2 and 3 FY 09-10
Alderman Fisher moved, seconded by Alderman Brown to approve budget amendments
numbers 1 and 2 presented by the Finance Director. Vote unanimous.
Budget Amendment # 2
Fiscal Year 2009-2010
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session October 8, 2009, that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for revenues received from finance on the three (3) Police
Vehicles.
General Fund
                                 Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section I
A.   Revenues Anticipated
      Proceeds from Finance$64,224          $4,413,824
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
      Police Department
         Capital Outlay/$64,224s         $4,413,824
 
ADOPTED this the 8th day of October, 2009
/s/ Mayor Sandra P Spencer 
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk
Budget Amendment # 3
Fiscal Year 2009-2010
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session October 8, 2009, that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted to adjust line items within the department in Insurance &
Bonding for the increase coverage on the new Sub-Station. There is no change in
Fund Balance.
 
Electric Fund
                               Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section IV
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
      Insurance & Bonding$1,900
      Customer Developmen($1,900)
 
ADOPTED this the 8th day of October, 2009
/s/ Mayor Sandra P Spencer 
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk
f)   Tax Releases
Alderman Fisher moved, seconded by Alderman Brown to approve the following tax
releases, motion carried.
Patricia Carney    2007 tax   $182.55   $121,700   Adjusted by the NC Property
Tax Commission
Patricia Carney   2008 tax   $156.33   86,850      Adjusted by NC Property Tax
Commission
Debra K Carter   2009      $ 1.17   651      Business is not located in
Southport
X.
Other Business
·   UDO workshop scheduled October 13, 4:00 p.m.
XI.
City Manager Comments
Weatherization program is being directed by the Four County Community Agency,
which includes Brunswick County.
·   Work is continuing with Brunswick Community College to move the Southport
Campus project forward.
·   Yacht Basin Dredging Project scheduled to begin the end of November, which
does not include the boat dock; however, the City has requested the dock be
included for dredging. Funds were requested to have a bathymetric survey
conducted. City Manager Thornton stated the consent agreement should be
completed and submitted to the Corps of Engineers. He requested the Board
authorize funds to conduct the bathymetric survey with a cost estimate of $4500
and $3,000 to complete the consent agreement.
Alderman Brown motioned, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to authorize the City
Manager to proceed with the bathymetric survey and consent agreement to
facilitate the dredging project. Discussion: Alderman Fisher suggested that the
scope of work be included in the next cycle of the Corps for dredging. The vote
of approval was unanimous. (Motion passed)
XII.
Board Comments
Planning Board Appointment
Alderman Boguskie moved to accept the application of Mrs. Susan Toth as the ETJ
appointment to the Planning Board and recommended her name be submitted to the
County. Motion seconded by Alderman Potter. The votes were 3 ayes, Aldermen
Boguskie, Potter, and Brown. 1 no, Alderman Fisher. (Motion passed)
Fort Johnston – Alderman Fisher questioned whether the request for proposals
(RFP's) included the recommendation of the 2006 Fort Johnston Committee i.e.
media room, expansion of dining room and handicap ramp on the side rather than
in front of the building.
Alderman Boguskie stated the RFP's included proposals for upgrading to ADA
standards.
Alderman Potter motioned, seconded by Alderman Fisher to authorize the City
Manager to proceed with the four options from the Ft. Johnston Committee and
once the proposals are received, present same to the Board. Vote unanimous.
Mayor Spencer announced that the Clerk was appointed to a Committee, Chaired by
Professor Fleming Bell of the School of Government to help develop a model
ethics plan for City Councils and Boards of County Commissioners.
XIII.
Adjournment
No further business, meeting adjourned upon motion of Alderman Potter, seconded
by Alderman Brown, vote carried.
________________________________
Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
_______________________________
Regina W. Alexander, MMC
City Clerk
OCTOBER 13, 2009
SPECIAL MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
OCTOBER 13, 2009  4:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, NC
 
PRESENT:         Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
            Aldermen Donnie Potter, James Brown, Ed Boguskie, Paul Fisher
            and Nelson Adams
ABSENT:         Alderman Jwantana Frink
STAFF:         M. Alan Thornton, City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander, MMC, Clerk
            Amy Nelson, Planner
            Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
            Dale Holland, Consulting Planner
I.
Call to Order – 4:00 p.m.
Mayor Spencer called the special meeting to order at 4:00 p.m. and announced
the purpose of the meeting is to discuss recommended changes to the Unified
Development Ordinance.
II.
UDO Amendments - Mr. Dale Holland, Consulting Planner
Mr. Dale Holland stated that the recommended changes to the Unified Development
Ordinance includes; 1) definitions under Article II, which is a minor
modification for home occupations. 2) A revised table of permitted uses to
incorporate changes to conditional use permits i.e. clarifications and
conditions. 3) Article 10, denotes the table of permitted uses. 4) Article 11
denotes the table of yard, area and height requirements. The only change in
Article 10 and 11 is reconstructing the table of permitted uses i.e. the order
and numbering. 5) Section 12-18 includes supplemental regulations incorporated
in the table of permitted uses. He stated that the most significant change to
supplemental regulations and the table of permitted uses is the recommendation
by the Planning Board that accessory apartments, including attached and garage
apartments be deleted as separate categories and replaced with accessory
dwelling unit residential, and accessory dwelling unit commercial. He explained
that the Planning Board went through the process to take the responsibility of
conditional use permits from the Board of Aldermen and place it with the Board
of Adjustments. However, there were some concerns by the Board that some of the
requirements imposed for conditional use permits should be strengthened and
others expanded by specifying where they may or might not occur. The next step
in the process is a Public Hearing.
The Board discussed with Mr. Holland various aspects of the recommended
changes.
There being no further discussion, Alderman Fisher moved, seconded by Alderman
Brown to schedule a Public Hearing on November 12, 2009 for public comments on
the recommended changes to the Unified Development Ordinance. The vote of
approval was unanimous.
Alderman Potter extended appreciation to the Planning Board for their diligence
and work as volunteer members.
III.
Adjournment
Alderman Brown moved to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Alderman Boguskie.
Vote carried.
_____________________________
Mayor
_________________________
Clerk
NOVEMBER 12, 2009
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
NOVEMBER 12, 2009 7:30 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
            Aldermen Donnie Potter, Ed Boguskie, Paul Fisher and Jim Brown
ABSENT:         Aldermen Nelson Adams and Jwantana Frink
STAFF:         Alan Thornton, City Manager
Mayor Spencer called the meeting to order at 5:00 p.m. for the purpose of
reviewing the performance of the City Manager pursuant to G.S. 143-318.12.
Alderman Boguskie moved to enter closed session, seconded by Alderman Brown,
vote unanimous. Motion passed 4-0. (Aldermen Boguskie, Brown, Fisher and
Potter)
The purpose of the closed session was to evaluate the performance of the City
Manager. The Board reached a consensus and discussed their findings with the
City Manager.
Alderman Boguskie made a motion to return to open session, seconded by Alderman
Fisher.
In regular session, Mayor Spencer stated that the purpose of the meeting was to
discuss personnel matters and that no action was taken in closed session.
Motion to adjourn by Alderman Boguskie, seconded by Alderman Brown, vote
carried.
_____________________________
Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
(Minutes taken by Alderman Potter)
___________________________________
Donnie Potter, Alderman
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
NOVEMBER 12, 2009 7:30 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
            Aldermen Nelson Adams, Donnie Potter, Richard "Ed" Boguskie,
            Jwantana Frink and Paul Fisher
ABSENT:         James Brown, Alderman
STAFF PRESENT:       M. Alan Thornton, City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander, MMC, City Clerk
            Michael Isenberg, City Attorney
            Patty Miller, Director of Finance
            Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
            Heather Hemphill, Director of Parks and Recreation
            Randy Jones, Director of Tourism
            Amy Nelson, Director of Planning
            Ralph Cardwell, Director of Public Services
            Jerry Dove, Chief of Police
I.
Call to Order
Mayor Spencer called the meeting to order at 7:30 p.m.
II.
Invocation
Alderman Fisher pronounced the invocation.
III.
Approval of Minutes
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Fisher to approve the October 8
regular meeting minutes and October 13 special meeting minutes. The vote was
unanimous. Motion passed 5-0 (Aldermen Potter, Adams, Fisher, Boguskie and
Frink)
IV.
Approval of Agenda
Mayor Spencer amended the agenda to include the lease agreement between the
City of Southport, the N.C. Department of Cultural Resources, the N. C.
Maritime Museum and the Friends of the N.C. Maritime Museum.
Alderman Adams asked that an applicant be considered as a nominee from the ETJ
to the Planning Board.
Alderman Fisher moved to amend the agenda to include the above stated items,
seconded by Alderman Adams. Vote unanimous. Motion passed 5-0.
V.
Public Comments
There were no comments from the public.
VI.
Committee Reports
Alderman Fisher discussed the 10-year electrical improvement program including
under grounding. He stated that monies were expended for upgrades in Smithville
Woods and Indigo Plantation including a new sub-station and explaining that the
City did not borrow money for these projects. The 10-year plan calls for the
City to continue working towards underground electricity. He stated in order to
accomplish the long-range plan, the City must adopt a policy requiring
mandatory underground connection in the area where the City will install the
distribution system, and motioned to amend the code and schedule of fees to
require mandatory underground connection for individual households and
businesses. Alderman Adams seconded the motion. Vote unanimous. (Aldermen
Fisher, Adams, Potter, Frink and Boguskie) Motion passed 5-0.
VII.
Departmental Reports
Mayor announced that departmental reports are included in the agenda packet for
review.
VIII.
Public Hearing
a)   Unified Development Ordinance Text Amendments
Alderman Boguskie moved to enter Public Hearing, seconded by Alderman Frink,
the vote was unanimous. (Aldermen Boguskie, Frink, Potter, Adams and Fisher)
Motion passed 5-0.
City Manager Thornton noted that the text amendments were previously discussed
at the October 13, 2009 special meeting and the Public Hearing is the first
step before adopting the amendments.
There being no comments from the public, Aldermen Fisher moved, seconded by
Alderman Potter to close the hearing and re-enter regular session. Vote
unanimous. (Aldermen Fisher, Potter, Boguskie, Adams and Frink) Motion passed
5-0.
IX.
New Business
a)    UDO Text Amendments
Alderman Fisher motioned to adopt the UDO text amendments, seconded by Alderman
Potter. The vote was unanimous. (Aldermen Fisher, Potter, Adams, Frink and
Boguskie) Motion passed 5-0.
RESOLUTION APPROVING TEXT AMENDMENTS TO UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
THAT WHEREAS, the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance and other
land use ordinances that control land development within both the City’s
incorporated areas and within its extraterritorial area; and
WHEREAS, in order to promote the public health, safety and general welfare and
to promote the best interest of the city and community, it is necessary for the
City Board of Aldermen from time to time to consider appropriate revisions,
modifications and additions to the city’s land use ordinances; and
WHEREAS, the City Planning Director has prepared and submitted to the Planning
Board proposed amendments to Article 2, Section 2-2, Article 10, Article 11,
Section 11-1, and Article 12 of the Southport Unified Development Ordinance;
and
WHEREAS, the Planning Board has considered this matter and has recommended that
these proposed amendments to the Unified Development Ordinance be approved; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the NC General Statutes and city ordinances, a public
hearing, properly noticed, was held on November 12, 2009, before the Board of
Aldermen regarding this issue; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen hereby finds that these proposed amendments to
the Unified Development Ordinance are consistent with the Southport CAMA Land
Use Plan; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that these amendments are
reasonable and in the public interest in that (i) in order to bring the Unified
Development Ordinance up-to-date after careful review, adjustments to
conditional uses were necessary, including the addition of community colleges,
(ii) these amendments are necessary to promote orderly growth and development
in the City of Southport and its extraterritorial jurisdiction, and (iii) these
changes and additions are necessary to promote the public safety and general
welfare of the community by modernizing the City’s ordinances;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that the
attached amendments and additions to the Southport Unified Development
Ordinance are hereby approved and adopted.
This 12th day of November 2009.
/s/ Sandra P. Spencer
Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk
b)    Resolution in support of Veterans Medical Clinic in Brunswick County
Alderman Fisher motioned, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to adopt a resolution
from the Southport Board of Aldermen in support of a Veterans Medical Clinic to
be located within Brunswick County. The vote of approval was unanimous.
(Aldermen Fisher, Potter, Adams, Frink and Boguskie) Motion passed 5-0.
Resolution in Support of a Veteran's Medical Clinic In Brunswick County
WHEREAS, veterans deserve and merit the best medical care available, and
WHEREAS, veterans have made many contributions and sacrifices in the line of
duty for the United States of America and its citizens, and
WHEREAS, some veterans have problems traveling long distances and it is only
fitting that veterans deserves a medical facility within close proximity
without traveling hundreds of miles, and
WHEREAS, there is a critical need for a Veteran's Clinic within Brunswick and
Columbus counties; and
WHEREAS, according to statistics from the Veteran's Administration, Brunswick
County has a veteran's population of 12,656, and Columbus County 4,394.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Southport Board of Aldermen go on
record in support of the Veteran's Administration converting the old Brunswick
Community Hospital into a much-needed Veteran's Medical Clinic to serve the
veterans population of Brunswick and Columbus Counties.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that a copy of this resolution be forwarded to the
appropriate persons.
ADOPTED, this the 12th day of November 2009.
/s/Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
Attest:
/s/Regina W. Alexander, MMC
City Clerk
c)   Resolution in Recognition of Margaret Taylor Harper
Alderman Boguskie motioned to adopt a resolution in recognition of Mrs.
Margaret Taylor Harper, seconded by Alderman Adams. The vote of approval was
unanimous. (Aldermen Fisher, Potter, Adams, Frink and Boguskie) Motion passed
5-0.
Resolution of Recognition
Margaret Taylor Harper
Whereas, Margaret Taylor Harper, a life long resident of Southport is known
throughout Brunswick County and the State of North Carolina, and
Whereas, Margaret Taylor Harper has served the Southport Community for many
years in various capacities, and
Whereas, she has received many awards and accolades for her community and civic
work, and
Whereas, she has been recognized for her many accomplishments, exceptional
service and philanthropy, and
Whereas, her years of service has been exemplary through her dedication and
commitment, and
Whereas, she earned the respect and admiration of those with whom she came in
contact with, and
Whereas, Margaret Taylor Harper dedicated her life to community service,
family, and serving with distinction at whatever task that she undertook.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that Mayor Sandra P. Spencer and the Southport
Board of Aldermen extend profound and abiding appreciation for Margaret T.
Harper's distinguished and outstanding contributions as a community and civic
leader, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that we urge all citizens to join with the Southport
Board of Aldermen in honoring a faithful and dedicated citizen on this the 12th
day of November 2009.
/s/ Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk
d)   Resolution to Endorse the City's Application for NCDOT Bicycle and
Pedestrian Planning Grant Initiative
City Manager Thornton explained that the City is applying for an 80/20 program
in 2010, which will result in the development of a comprehensive municipal
bicycle and pedestrian plan. Mrs. Amy Nelson, City Planner stated the City does
not have a plan for sidewalks or bike paths and the City is in the process of
applying for a grant for sidewalks. Adopting the resolution is a component of
the plan and once in place, the City can apply for other grant funds i.e.
transportation enhancement. Alderman Adams noted that the City has had requests
for sidewalks. City Manager Thornton explained that this Plan would allow the
City to perform a comprehensive review of existing sidewalks and those that the
City wishes to put into place; however, it does not preclude the City from
installing sidewalks if other monies are available i.e. power bill funds.
Alderman Fisher moved, seconded by Alderman Potter to adopt the resolution
endorsing the application for the NC DOT bicycle and pedestrian planning grant
initiative. The vote of approval was unanimous. (Aldermen Fisher, Potter,
Adams, Frink and Boguskie) Motion passed 5-0.
RESOLUTION TO ENDORSE THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT’S APPLICATION FOR THE NORTH
CAROLINA DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION’S BICYCLE AND PEDESTRIAN PLANNING GRANT
INITIATIVE
WHEREAS on December 4, 2009, the NCDOT Division of Bicycle and Pedestrian
Transportation will conclude the 2010 Call for Proposals to encourage the
development of comprehensive municipal bicycle plans and pedestrian plans; and
WHEREAS the Bicycle and Pedestrian Planning Grant Initiative is a state program
set up for municipalities all across the state of North Carolina; and
WHEREAS the City of Southport has an opportunity to apply for this 80%-20%
matching grant program in 2010; and
WHEREAS there is a strong desire in the City of Southport to enhance the
transportation planning by providing more choices in order to make the
community more pedestrian-friendly, bicycle-friendly, and a better place to
live; and
BE IT THEREFORE RESOLVED that the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport,
North Carolina in session assembled this 12th day of November 2009 endorse the
NCDOT Division of Bicycle and Pedestrian Transportation’s Bicycle and
Pedestrian Planning Grant Initiative application for the City of Southport,
North Carolina.
Adopted this 12th day of November 2009.
/s/ Sandra Spencer, Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina Alexander, City Clerk
e)   Resolution in Recognition of Veteran's Day
Mayor Spencer recognized all veterans and expressed the Board's admiration in
honor of their military service.
Alderman Potter moved, seconded by Alderman Frink to adopt a resolution in
honor of Veterans Day. Motion passed unanimously. (Aldermen Frink, Potter,
Adams, Boguskie, and Frink) Motion Passed 5-0.
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, November 11, 2009, has been designated as Veteran’s Day to honor and
celebrate our veterans; and
WHEREAS, veterans deserve and merit our continued remembrance and appreciation
for the many sacrifices that they have made for freedom and the American way of
life; and
WHEREAS, our community has a continuing sense of gratitude to those veterans
who have given so much in the defense of freedom which we continue to enjoy;
and.
WHEREAS,  the Southport Board of Aldermen on this the 12th day of November
2009, urge all citizens to join us in the reaffirmation of our gratitude to the
men and women who have and to those who continue to serve faithfully in defense
of the U. S. States of America.
ADOPTED this the 12th day of November 2009.
/s/ Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
City Clerk
f)   N. C. Armed Forces Community Covenant
Alderman Fisher moved to adopt the NC Armed Forces Community Covenant, seconded
by Alderman Boguskie. Vote unanimous. (Alderman Fisher, Boguskie, Frink,
Potter, Adams) Motion passed 5-0 . (Alderman Fisher suggested the Commander at
MOTSU sign the document in support of the covenant)
North Carolina Armed Forces
Community Covenant
Together, we are committed to building strong communities.
We, the Community, recognize...
The commitment service members and their families are making everyday.
The strength of service members comes from the strengths of their families
The strength of families is supported by the strength of the community.
The strength of the community comes from the support of employers, educators,
civic and business leaders and citizens.
We, the community, are committed to building partnerships that support the
strength, resilience and readiness of service members and their families.
We, the undersigned, support the Armed Forces Community Covenant.
S/Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
S/James Brown
S/Nelson Adams
S/Donnie Potter
S/Jwantana Frink
S/Richard "Ed" Boguskie
S/Paul Fisher
g)   Resolution Adopting the Brunswick County Multi-Jurisdictional Hazard
Mitigation Plan
City Manager Thornton and Ms. Nelson stated the Board in October adopted a
resolution merging the City's hazard mitigation plan with Brunswick County with
its own section within the Plan. Ms. Nelson explained that FEMA requested
adoption of the resolution before submittal of the Plan.
Alderman Fisher moved, seconded by Alderman Potter to approve the Resolution
Adopting the Brunswick County Multi-Jurisdictional Hazard Mitigation Plan. The
vote of approval was unanimous. (Aldermen Fisher, Potter, Adams, Frink and
Boguskie) Motion passed 5-0.
A RESOLUTION ADOPTING THE BRUNSWICK COUNTY MULTI-JURISDICTIONAL HAZARD
MITIGATION PLAN FOR THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT NORTH CAROLINA
THAT WHEREAS, on October 30, 2000, the President of the United States signed
into law the Disaster Mitigation Act of 2000 to amend the Robert T. Stafford
Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act of 1988 to reinforce the
importance of pre-disaster mitigation planning to help reduce disaster losses;
and
WHEREAS, North Carolina Senate Bill 300 requires all local governments to have
an approved Hazard Mitigation Plan in order to receive state public assistance
funds (effective for state-declared disasters after November 1, 2004);
WHEREAS, the City of Southport Hazard Mitigation Plan (Plan) was approved on
November 5, 2004 by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and the
North Carolina Division of Emergency Management (NCEM);
WHEREAS, the City of Southport has been working with Brunswick County on the
Hazard Mitigation Plan update and the planning process involved since the
spring of 2009; and
WHEREAS, the City of Southport has merged said Plan with the County of
Brunswick in accordance with the guidance provided to the City of Southport by
FEMA, NCEM, and the County of Brunswick;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Southport Board of Aldermen in
session assembled this 12th day of November 2009 that the Brunswick County
Multi-Jurisdictional Hazard Mitigation Plan is hereby adopted as the official
hazard mitigation plan of the City of Southport, North Carolina.
Adopted this 12th day of November 2009.
/s/ Sandra Spencer, Mayor
Attest:
/s/Regina Alexander, City Clerk
h)   Agreement for the Supplemental Retirement Income Plan of N. C. Employer
Third Party Administrator
Mr. Thornton explained that the 401K plan is administered by Prudential for the
State of N. C. and they are requesting that the Board approve the agreement
verifying that the city is a participant in the Plan and employees'
contributions or payments will be made through payroll deduction.
Alderman Fisher moved, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to approve
the Supplemental Retirement Income Plan of N. C. Employer Third Party
Administrator Agreement.  The vote of approval was unanimous .  (Aldermen
Fisher, Potter, Adams, Frink and Boguskie) Motion passed 5-0.
i)   FY 09-10 Budget Amendment #4
Alderman Fisher moved to approve budget amendment #4, seconded by Alderman
Potter. Vote unanimous. (Aldermen Fisher, Potter, Adams, Frink and Boguskie)
Motion passed 5-0.
Budget Amendment # 4
Fiscal Year 2009-2010
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
regular session, November 12, 2009, that the following Budget Amendment be
adopted for grant proceeds received from NC Department of Crime Control’s
Narcotics Interdiction Grant to reimburse expenditures and to receive proceeds
from private contributions given to Police Department programs National Night
Out and Shop with a Cop.
General Fund
                               Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section I
A.   Revenues
      Private Contributio1,805.00
      Grant Proceeds     603.86
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
   Police Department
      Salaries           603.86
      Community Resource 1,805.00
 
ADOPTED this the 12th day of November 2009
S/ Mayor Sandra P Spencer 
Attest:
s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk to the Board of Aldermen
j)   Tax Release
Alderman Fisher moved, seconded by Alderman Frink to approve the tax release
for First Apostolic Church in the amount of $448.56 due to a clerical error.
The vote was unanimous. (Aldermen Fisher, Potter, Adams, Frink and Boguskie)
Motion passed 5-0.
k)   Ordinance Establishing a Capital Project Ordinance Fund: Southport
Wastewater System Enhancement – Phase II
City Manager Thornton stated adopting the above referenced ordinance would
rescind the existing ordinance, which reflects the project as it existed prior
to the City establishing the agreement with the County of Brunswick to treat
its wastewater.  The ordinance shows where the monies come from including the
ARRA funding and how it is to be expended.
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Fisher to approve the Ordinance
Establishing a Capital Project Ordinance Fund for the Southport Wastewater
System Enhancement – Phase II. The vote was unanimous. (Aldermen Fisher,
Potter, Adams, Frink and Boguskie) Motion passed 5-0.
ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING A CAPITAL PROJECT FUND:
SOUTHPORT WASTEWATER SYSTEM ENHANCEMENT- PHASE II
WHEREAS, the City of Southport is committed to providing superior wastewater
collection and treatment to its citizens: and
WHEREAS, the City is further committed to providing such service in the most
efficient, economical and environmentally appropriate manner practicable: and
WHEREAS, the elected approach to achieving these goals is through a partnership
with Brunswick County that will ultimately result in Brunswick County assuming
all wastewater treatment responsibilities for the City: and
WHEREAS, it is appropriate that the pre-existing Capital Project Ordinance be
rescinded and a new Capital Project Ordinance be established for this venture
that will result in all of the City’s wastewater flow being redirected to
Brunswick County for treatment: and
WHEREAS, a Capital Project Fund is hereby determined to be the most appropriate
manner in which to account for revenues and expenditures associated with the
project.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Southport Board of Aldermen:
1.   The pre-existing Capital Project Ordinance with SBSD is rescinded.
2.   The Capital Project Fund is amended and established with Brunswick County
for Phase II of this project.
3.   The amended total budget for the project, subject to amendment by action
of the Board of Aldermen as necessary to implement the project, shall be as
follows.
Revenues
   CG&L- ARRA Loan            $ 1,404,695.00
   CWMTF Grant            $ 3,000,000.00
Total Revenue               $ 4,404,695.00
Expenditures
   Professional Services            $ 959,945.00
   Legal/Administrative            $ 56,985.00
   Construction               $ 3,203,995.00
   Easement/Land Acquisition         $ 43,070.00
   Contingency               $ 140,700.00
Total Expenditures               $ 4,404,695.00
4.   The City Manager and Finance Officer are hereby authorized to make any
Fund or accounting adjustments necessary to establish, implement and maintain
this Capital Project Fund.
5.   The City Manager and Finance Officer are hereby authorized and empowered
to execute on behalf of the City of Southport all contracts, agreements and
other documents necessary to administer this ordinance and all prior actions of
said officers consistent herewith are hereby ratified.
Duly Adopted, this 12th day of November 2009.
/s/ Sandra P Spencer, Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, City Clerk
l)   Lease – Maritime Museum
Attorney Isenberg stated the agreement separates the responsibility of the
State and Friends of the Museum. It is a two-year lease beginning November 1,
2009 through October 31, 2011. City's only responsibility is maintenance of the
grounds.
Alderman Fisher moved, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to adopt the resolution
approving the revised lease of the city property known as Fort Johnston
Barracks to the N.C. Department of Cultural Resources for a term of two years
which authorizes, and directs the City Manager to execute said lease, and to
rescind the existing lease approved in 2006 for the Moore Street unit. The vote
was unanimous. (Aldermen Fisher, Potter, Adams, Frink and Boguskie) Motion
passed 5-0.
Resolution
THAT WHEREAS, pursuant to G.S. 160A-272 and the requirements thereof, the City
of Southport passed a resolution on June 11, 2009 approving a lease with the N.
C. Department of Cultural Resources for the property generally known as the
Fort Johnston Barracks; and
WHEREAS, the N.C. Department of Cultural Resources has requested certain
revisions be made to said lease in order to properly set forth the
responsibilities of the N. C. Department of Cultural Resources and The Friends
of the North Carolina Maritime Museum; and
WHEREAS,  the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport has considered said
request and has agreed to said revisions as requested by the N. C. Department
of Cultural Resources.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen that the Board hereby
approves the revised lease of the City property known as the Fort Johnston
Barracks to the N. C. Department of Cultural Resources for a term of two years,
authorizes, and directs the City Manager to execute said lease.
Adopted November 12, 2009.
City of Southport
By:
Sandra P. Spencer
Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
City Clerk
X.
Other Business
Alderman Adams motioned, seconded by Alderman Fisher to nominate Donnie A.
Joyner to be considered by the Board of County Commissioners as an ETJ
alternate to the City Planning Board. Discussion:  Alderman Potter asked if two
names would be submitted to the Commissioners for future consideration as ETJ
appointments. The votes were 4 ayes, Aldermen Adams, Fisher, Frink and Potter.
1 no, Alderman Boguskie. Motion passed 4 to 1.
Attorney Isenberg prepared the following resolution that will be submitted to
the County Commissioners.
RESOLUTION OF SOUTHPORT BOARD OF ALDERMEN REQUESTING BRUNSWICK COUNTY BOARD OF
COMMISSIONERS TO APPOINT AN EXTRATERRITORIAL MEMBER TO CITY OF SOUTHPORT
PLANNING BOARD PURSUANT TO G. S. 160A-362
THAT WHEREAS, one of the extraterritorial members of the City of Southport
Planning Board has resigned; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen desires that the Brunswick County Board of
Commissioners appoint a successor to fill said term as expeditiously as
possible in order to assure the efficient functioning of said planning board;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT HEREBY RESOLVED that the City of Southport Board of
Aldermen hereby request that the Brunswick County Board of Commissioners
appoint either Susan Toth or Donnie A. Joyner to the City of Southport Planning
Board to complete the term of Stephanie Van Noordt as expeditiously as
possible.
This the 12th day of November, 2009.
City of Southport
BY:
s/ Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
ATTEST:
s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk
Cats Committee: Mayor Spencer stated that she was officially dissolving the
CATS Committee that she appointed and she commended the members for a good job.
XI.
City Manager Comments
Yacht Basin Dredging: City Manager Thornton stated the cost for expanding the
Yacht Basin Dredging is $36,000, which is a fair price based upon the material
that will be removed. The project will be an enhancement to the City boat dock,
which is the first step to improve the facility. Alderman Boguskie moved,
seconded by Alderman Adams to grant the City Manager the authority to move
forward with the dredging program. The vote was unanimous. (Aldermen Boguskie,
Adams, Fisher, Potter and Frink.) Motion passed 5-0.
Christmas Tree Lighting: Mr. Thornton announced that the City would host an
official community Christmas tree lighting on December 12 at 6:00 p.m., which
will be held in conjunction with the flotilla and tour of homes.
XII.
Board Comments
NCEMPA:   Alderman Fisher stated the North Carolina Eastern Municipal Power
Agency will vote on its budget in December for the Eastern Agency and Agency
One in the western part of the state. Agency One in conjunction with Duke Power
is projecting a nine percent increase for 2010. (9%) The thirty-two cities in
the East are not projecting a rate increase.
Fort Johnston: Alderman Fisher moved, seconded by Alderman Adams to place the
Fort Johnston issue on the December 10 agenda under "old business." Mr.
Thornton stated the request for proposals should be in by November 20. Alderman
Boguskie requested the Committee review the RFP's before presentation to the
Board of Aldermen.
Vote of approval was unanimous. (Aldermen Fisher, Potter, Adams, Frink and
Boguskie) Motion passed 5-0.
XIII.
Adjournment – 8:40 p.m.
Alderman Boguskie moved to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Alderman Frink, The
vote was unanimous. (Aldermen Fisher, Potter, Adams, Frink and Boguskie) Motion
passed 5-0.
________________________________
Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
______________________________
Regina W. Alexander, MMC
City Clerk
DECEMBER 10, 2009
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
DECEMBER 10, 2009 7:30 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
            Aldermen Nelson E. Adams, Donnie Potter, James C. Brown,
            Paul D. Fisher, Jwantana G. Frink and Richard "Ed" Boguskie
ABSENT:         None
STAFF:         M. Alan Thornton, City Manager
            Michael Isenberg, City Attorney
            Regina W. Alexander, MMC, City Clerk
OTHERS:         Robert D. Howard, Mayor Elect
            Kenneth Karn, Alderman Elect
            Mary Ellen Poole, Alderman Elect
            Patty Miller, Director of Finance
            Amy Nelson, Director of Planning
            Ralph Cardwell, Director of Public Services
            Heather Hemphill, Director of Parks and Recreation
            Randy Jones, Director of Tourism
            Jerry Dove, Chief of Police
I.
Call to Order
Mayor Spencer called the meeting to order at 7:30 p.m.
II.
Invocation
Alderman Brown delivered the invocation.
III.
Approval of Minutes
Alderman Fisher motioned to approve the minutes of November 12, 2009, seconded
by Alderman Brown, the vote was unanimous. Motion passed 6-0
IV.
Approval of Agenda
Alderman Fisher moved, seconded by Alderman Brown to add item X-b-1 appointment
of the City Attorney to the agenda, vote unanimous. Motion passed 6-0.
Alderman Boguskie motioned, seconded by Alderman Potter to add XI-d pre-agenda
meetings to the agenda, vote unanimous. Motion passed 6-0.
Alderman Brown motioned to approve the agenda as amended, seconded by Alderman
Potter, vote unanimous. Motion passed 6-0.
V.
Public Comments
Mr. Bernest Hewett spoke in support of Alderman Nelson Adams as Mayor Pro
Tempore'.
Commissioner Charles Warren stated his support of Alderman Adams as Mayor Pro
Tempore'.
VI.
Committee Reports
Reports contained in agenda packet.
VII.
Departmental Reports
Reports included in agenda packet.
VIII.
Old Business
a)    Audit Report FY 08-09
Mr. Minton Padgett, Certified Auditor with Brock, Berry, Padgett and Chandler,
PLLC presented the audit report for year ending June 30, 2009 and reviewed the
financial analysis with the Board. (Copy of the audit report is available in
the finance department and clerk's office, financial analysis incorporated in
the minutes)
b)    Garrison House at Fort Johnson
Alderman Fisher motioned, seconded by Alderman Brown to adopt the
recommendation from the City Manager dated September 4, 2009 as the official
policy for use of the Garrison House.
(Attorney Isenberg ruled that a secondary motion to postpone consideration to a
certain date could be made before the vote on the main motion)
Alderman Boguskie motioned, seconded by Alderman Potter to postpone discussion
of the Garrison House until the next regular meeting on January 14, 2010. The
votes were 2 ayes, Aldermen Boguskie and Potter. 4 noes, Aldermen Adams,
Fisher, Brown and Frink. Motion failed 4-0
Mayor called for discussion on motion by Alderman Fisher. Alderman Brown stated
the Board should make a decision on utilization of the Garrison House since it
has been pending and the Mayor Elect asked that it be resolved. Alderman
Boguskie stated that the Fort Johnston Committee recommended that this matter
be postponed. Mayor Spencer called for the vote on the motion by Alderman
Fisher motioned, seconded by Alderman Brown to adopt the recommendation of the
City Manager dated September 4, 2009 as the official policy for use of the
Garrison House. The votes were 4 ayes, Aldermen Fisher, Brown, Frink and Adams.
2 noes, Aldermen Potter and Boguskie. Motion passed 4-2.
c)   Tax Release
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Adams to defer approval of the
tax release until January because it was omitted from the agenda packet. The
vote was unanimous.
d)    Resolution in Support of Retaining Existing Funding Method for
Distribution of Sales Tax Revenues in Brunswick County
Mayor stated that this is an issue with the beach communities, as they want to
redistribute sales tax revenues. City Manager Thornton stated that out of 18
municipalities within Brunswick County, the current tax distribution method is
on a per capita basis and the county must reaffirm this method each year. The
majority of municipalities wish the county to continue the method on a per
capita basis. If the distribution were changed based on the ad valorem method,
Southport would lose one-half of its sales tax distribution. City Manager
Thornton recommended the Board adopt the resolution to oppose the change in the
distribution method.
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Frink to adopt the following
resolution. Vote unanimous. Motion passed 6-0
RESOLUTION IN SUPPORT OF RETAINING THE EXISTING FUNDING METHOD FOR THE
DISTRIBUTION OF SALES TAX REVENUES IN BRUNSWICK COUNTY
WHEREAS, the City of Southport is a municipality in Brunswick County, North
Carolina, and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport has a strong and
mutually beneficial working relationship with its fellow municipalities of
Brunswick County, and
WHEREAS, the City's portion of sales tax revenue distribution is vital to
maintaining a strong and vibrant community and meetings its obligations to the
citizens, and
WHEREAS, the citizens of Southport have elected its officials to serve and
protect the best interests of the City and to take action when activities which
potentially impair the future prospects for growth occur, and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen unanimously agree that a change in the
distribution method of sales tax revenues is not in the best interest of the
City and would result in a significant tax increase to our property owners, and
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board of Aldermen request the Brunswick
County Board of Commissioners to retain the current distribution method on a
per capita basis, and direct the City Clerk to send a copy of this resolution
to each Commissioner of Brunswick County and each municipality.
ADOPTED this the 10th day of December 2009 in regular meeting of the Southport
Board of Aldermen.
/s/Sandra P. Spencer, Mayor
Attest:
/s/Regina W. Alexander, MMC
City Clerk
e)   Christmas Bonuses
Alderman Fisher motioned, seconded by Alderman Brown to give each permanent
City employee $100 Christmas Bonus. The vote was unanimous. Motion passed 6-0.
f)    Recognition of outgoing Board members
Mayor Spencer presented retiring Board members James C. Brown and Paul D.
Fisher with a plaque of appreciation.
Mayor-elect Robert Howard presented retiring Mayor Sandra P. Spencer with a
plaque of appreciation and placed her picture on the wall amongst others who
have served the City of Southport as Mayor.
Mayor Spencer, Aldermen Fisher and Brown thanked the citizens for allowing them
to serve the City as elected officials and extended appreciation to City
employees.
IX.
Swearing In Ceremony of Newly Elected Mayor and Aldermen
City Clerk Alexander administered the oath of office to Aldermen Elect Kenneth
Karn and Mary Ellen Watts Poole.
Judge Sherry Dew Tyler, District Court Judge from Columbus County administered
the oath of office to Aldermen Elect Nelson E. Adams and Mayor Elect Robert D.
Howard. (Oaths of Office incorporated as an attachment)
The gavel was passed to Mayor Robert D. Howard by retiring Mayor, Sandra P.
Spencer with congratulations.
X.
Organization of New Board
a)   Remarks by Mayor and Board
Mayor Howard presented Representative Dewey Hill who read a congratulatory
letter from Governor Beverly Perdue. Mayor Howard introduced other special
guests i.e. Representative Hill's wife, Commissioner Charles Warren, Judge
Tyler, his wife Rebecca and other family members. The Mayor thanked citizens
for their support and pledged to work for the City and its citizens and bring
cohesiveness to the Board.
Aldermen Karn and Poole expressed their appreciation to family, friends and
citizens for their support.
Mayor Howard called a recess at 8:45 pm for a reception to honor retiring board
members.
b)   Election of Mayor Pro Tempore'
Mayor Howard called the meeting back to order at 9:01 p.m. The first order of
business was to elect the Mayor Pro Tempore. Mayor Howard proposed that the
Board continue in tradition that the individual receiving the most electorate
votes or the longest serving Alderman be elected Mayor Pro Tem. He stated that
Alderman Adams met the criteria and recommended that he be elected Mayor Pro
Tem since he has served on the Board 30+ years, received 60% of the electorate
vote and served before as Mayor Pro Tempore.
Alderman Frink motioned to elect Alderman Adams Mayor Pro Tempore, seconded by
Alderman Adams. The vote was 2 ayes, Aldermen Frink and Adams. 4 noes, Aldermen
Potter, Poole, Karn and Boguskie. Motion failed 4-2
Alderman Potter motioned, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to elect Mary Ellen
Poole as Mayor Pro Tempore'. The vote was 4 ayes, Aldermen Potter, Boguskie,
Karn and Poole. 2 noes, Aldermen Frink and Adams. Motion passed 4-2.
The oath was administered to the Mayor Pro Tempore by the City Clerk and
incorporated as an attachment to the minutes.
b-1)    Appointment of City Attorney
Alderman Poole motioned to approve the contract to retain the legal services of
Jess, Isenberg & Thompson, Attorneys at Law, seconded by Alderman Boguskie.
Vote unanimous. Motion passed 6-0 (Contract incorporated in minutes as an
attachment)
c)    Committee/Board Liaison Appointments
Mayor Howard stated that he will be assigning other committee and presented the
following committee appointments.
Fire Station Committee   Title/Department   Date Appointed   Expiration
Sandy Spencer   Former Mayor   12/10/2009   12/31/2010
Nelson Adams   Alderman   12/10/2009   12/31/2010
Paul Fisher   Citizen   12/10/2009   12/31/2010
Albert Trunnel   Citizen   12/10/2009   12/31/2010
Robert Howard   Mayor   12/10/2009   12/31/2010
Electric Committee   Title/Department   Date Appointed   Expiration
Donnie Potter, Chair   Alderman   12/10/2009   12/31/2010
Ken Karn   Alderman   12/10/2009   12/31/2010
Mary E. Poole   Alderman   12/10/2009   12/30/2010
Patty Miller   Finance   12/10/2009   12/31/2010
Ralph Cardwell   Public Works   12/10/2009   12/31/2010
Recreation Committee   Title/Department   Date Appointed   Expiration
Nelson Adams Chair   Alderman   12/10/2009   12/31/2010
Donnie Potter   Alderman   12/10/2009   12/31/2010
Heather Hemphill   Parks & Recreation   12/10/2009   12/31/2010
Planning Board   Title/Department   Date Appointed   Expiration
Ken Karn   Alderman   12/10/2009   12/31/2010
Mary Ellen Poole   Alderman   12/10/209   12/31/2010
Fort Johnston Committee   Title/Department   Date Appointed   Expiration
Jwantana Frink Chair   Alderman   12/10/2009   12/31/2010
Ken Karn   Alderman   12/10/2009   12/31/2010
Lee Aldridge   Citizen   12/10/2009   12/31/2010
Ralph Parker   Citizen   12/10/2009   12/31/2010
Heather Hemphill   Parks & Recreation   12/10/2009   12/31/2010
Water/Sewer Committee   Title/Department   Date Appointed   Expiration
Ed Boguskie   Alderman   12/10/2009   12/31/2010
Donnie Potter   Alderman   12/10/2009   12/31/2010
Sandy Spencer   Citizen   12/10/2009   12/31/2010
Ralph Cardwell   Public Works   12/10/2009   12/31/2010
Transportation/Traffic Committee   Title/Department   Date
Appointed   Expiration
Ed Boguskie   Alderman   12/10/2009   12/31/2010
Jwantana Frink   Alderman   12/10/2009   12/31/2010
J Walton Willis   Citizen   12/10/2009   12/31/2010
J.V. Dove   Police   12/10/2009   12/31/2010
Amy Nelson   Planning   12/10/2009   12/31/2010
XI.
New Business
a)    Current vacancies on the Southport Planning Board
Mayor Howard announced that two names were recommended to the County
Commissioners to fill an unexpired ETJ appointment on the Planning Board.
Alderman Poole stated that her position is vacant on the Planning Board and
recommended the Board appoint a Committee to conduct interviews with the
applicant(s) and advertise vacancies.
Mayor Howard suggested that the Board have at least a two-week notice from the
Committee before the name(s) is presented.
Alderman Karn agreed with appointing a committee to interview Planning Board
applicants.
b)    International Port Project and Southport's Status
Mayor Howard referenced the resolution that was adopted July 2006 with
conditions supporting the proposed international port. He recommended that the
resolution be rescinded and the Board with hold all resolutions until studies
are completed. He invited organized groups to appear on the Board's agenda if
they wish to address this matter.
Alderman Adams suggested that this item be discussed at the retreat in order to
acquire a better understanding why the Mayor proposes to rescind the
resolution. He stressed the Board working as a unit when making a decision on
the Port.
Alderman Karn explained that the Board is not speaking for or against the Port
and concurred that it should be discussed in-depth and to get the State Ports
Authority to engage the City in their discussions.
Alderman Potter motioned, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to rescind the 2006
resolution requesting the North Carolina Department of Transportation to
conduct the engineering and environmental studies required for development of
the transportation infrastructure required for the development of the North
Carolina International Port in Brunswick County, and to discuss the proposed
Port at the Board's Retreat in January. Discussion: Alderman Adams reiterated
that the Board should discuss the matter as a Board since there are new Board
members and his belief that the Board should be united on this issue and not
convey a negative message to the public. Alderman Karn recommended public input
be received; stating that he is in favor of rescinding the resolution, but do
not believe one month will make a difference. Alderman Poole stated rescinding
the resolution would signify the City's neutral position. Mayor Howard stated
that he recommended rescission of the resolution because the official position
of this administration should be neutral until all studies are completed in
order to make informed decisions. He will propose to Governor Perdue, Speaker
of the House and Mayor Pro Tem of the Senate to appoint someone from Southport
to serve on the State Ports Authority in order to be a part of the process.
Mayor Howard called for the vote on the motion. The vote was 3 ayes, Aldermen
Potter, Poole and Boguskie. 3 noes, Aldermen Adams, Frink, Karn, Mayor Howard.
Motion failed 3-4.
Mayor Howard requested the Port matter be placed on the January 14 regular
meeting agenda and January 16 retreat agenda.
c)    Municipal Facilities Assessment
Mayor Howard recommended that the City Manager request RFP's from architects
and space planners to perform an assessment and inventory all city facilities
by assessing the condition of the facilities, and to conduct a space planning
analysis for the best utilization of City property, excluding Fort Johnston.
Alderman Karn motioned to authorize the City Manager to request proposals for a
municipal facilities assessment. Motion seconded by Alderman Frink. Discussion:
Alderman Poole agreed that the Board's meeting room is not accessible for all
persons and stated that technology is needed so the public can have access to
board discussion. Motion passed 6-0
d)    Pre-agenda Meeting Discussion
Alderman Boguskie motioned, seconded by Alderman Karn beginning January 2010,
that the Southport Board of Aldermen will hold a pre-agenda meeting 10 days
prior to the regular Board meeting that will be determined by a majority vote
of the items that will be on the agenda for the regular meeting. After this
meeting, no new items will be brought to the table unless it requires a vote
prior to the next regular meeting of the Board, and when this happens, the City
Manager will immediately notify all Board members and the Mayor of the agenda
addition. Discussion: Alderman Boguskie explained the reason for this action is
due to materials being placed before Aldermen at regular meetings without prior
knowledge. Alderman Adams asked that this be discussed at the retreat,
believing that there is another way to handle this without a second meeting.
Alderman Karn stated the advantage of a pre-agenda meeting is to make the
regular meeting more efficient and it should not be more time consuming. Mayor
Howard stated that it may be justifiable to defer the motion for 30 days until
January 14 meeting and if someone request it on the retreat agenda, it could be
considered. Mayor Howard stated the motion would prohibit an Alderman's ability
to place an item on the agenda unless it met with approval of a majority of the
members, and he believes that is inappropriate, because Aldermen should have
the right to have items considered for the agenda. Aldermen Potter asked if the
motion could be deferred and get the City Manager's input.
Alderman Boguskie withdrew the motion, seconded by Alderman Karn. Vote carried.
Passed 6-0
ElectriCities Board: Alderman Boguskie asked about the appointment to the
ElectriCities Board. Mayor Howard stated that this item would be deferred to
the retreat agenda in January. At present, the City does not have an alternate,
but is represented.
Planning Board ETJ Member: Attorney Isenberg asked about the ETJ appointment to
be made by the County and if the Board is standing behind its resolution, with
two names. Alderman Adams stated the resolution was approved by the Board and
submitted to the County, and it is his belief that they need to fulfill their
responsibility. Alderman Karn asked the Attorney for clarification on the
General Statute, which states the County, has forty-five days to make a
decision and if delayed longer, it will revert to the City. The City has
received no official word from the County; however, staff will make contact
with the County to ascertain their position on the appointment.
XII.
Other Business
None
XIII.
City Manager Comments
City Manager reported:
∙   Neil Sage recognized as the new Rescue Squad Chief
∙   Invited Community to Christmas tree lighting at 6:00 p.m.
∙   Yacht Basin dredging project will not be completed until early March
∙   CEO of ElectriCities will attend the next Board meeting
∙   Will send the Board a questionnaire for retreat agenda
XIV.
Board Comments
Alderman Karn stated the Board needs a vision for Southport and voting to move
the Visitor's Center to the Garrison House was short sighted. He explained that
there was no public or staff input, and the Fort Johnston Committee
recommendation was ignored. He stated that no plan exists; it was a
justification for acquiring the property, which can be changed with the Park
Service approval. He believes something can be worked out with the Southport
Historical Society to enhance the historical aspect of the property. He asked
that the Board revisit this issue and recommended the City Manager not move on
the Visitor's Center until the Board can discuss the issues raised i.e. the
proposal from the Southport Historical Society. Alderman Karn asked that this
matter be placed on the January 14 agenda.
Mayor Howard stated several public meetings were held and the public had the
opportunity to speak. The City Manager stated that he could offer the Southport
Historical Society space in the building. The City has many matters to contend
with other than to keep bringing this issue up and dividing the community.
Alderman Karn stated no public hearing was held only public comments on the
agenda, and he does not believe that it was adequately discussed.
Alderman Adams stated everything that has been done, some wants to reverse it,
but there are many issues that need attention. Fort Johnston has been placed in
the City Manager's hand and the City needs to move forward.
Alderman Poole stated that she agrees with Alderman Karn.
Alderman Potter, a member of the Fort Johnston Committee stated if Fort Johnson
becomes a Visitor's Center, the quality of the building would not be addressed.
Alderman Boguskie stated he looked forward to working with the Board.
XV.
Adjournment - 10:15 p.m.
No further business, Alderman Boguskie motioned for adjournment, seconded by
Alderman Poole. Vote carried. Passed 6-0
_______________________________
Robert D. Howard, Mayor
______________________________
Regina W. Alexander, MMC
City Clerk
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-54.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-56.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-58.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-60.jpg]
 
2010
JANUARY 14, 2010
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
JANUARY 14, 2010  7:30 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Robert D. Howard, Mayor
            Aldermen Ed Boguskie, Mary Ellen Poole, Nelson Adams, Jwantana
Frink
            and Ken Karn
ABSENT:         Donnie Potter
STAFF:         M. Alan Thornton, City Manager
            Michael Isenberg, City Attorney
            Regina W. Alexander, MMC, City Clerk
OTHERS:         Patty Miller, Director of Finance
            Amy Nelson, Director of Planning
            Ralph Cardwell, Director of Public Services
            Heather Hemphill, Director of Parks and Recreation
            Randy Jones, Director of Tourism
            Jerry Dove, Chief of Police
I.
Call to Order – 7:30 p.m.
Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 7:30 p.m.
II.
Invocation
Mayor Howard pronounced the invocation.
III.
Approval of Minutes
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Frink to approve the December 10,
2009 minutes. The vote of approval was unanimous. Motion passed 5-0.
IV.
Approval of Agenda
Mayor Howard announced that because of a new law enacted, a Code of Ethics is
required to be adopted by January 1, 2011. Upon receipt of the model policy,
which is being written by the School of Government staff, the Board of Aldermen
will review and adopt one of its own. In the interim, Mayors were requested to
inquire at each meeting if any member of the Board knows of any conflict of
interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect to matters on
the agenda, and if so; to state it. This statement will become a regular part
of the agenda until the Board adopts an ethics policy. No conflicts of interest
were stated by Board members.
Mayor Howard requested to amend the agenda to discuss items XI. a, b, c
immediately after the Public Hearing(s).
Alderman Karn motioned to approve the agenda as amended, seconded by Alderman
Poole. Vote unanimous. Motion passed 5-0
Alderman Adams questioned why X. a) Resolution of Support for the proposed
International Port Project, and b) Fort Johnston was placed on the agenda when
it was consensus of the Board to discuss these matters at the retreat. Alderman
Karn stated he requested the items be placed on the agenda because a majority
of the public attends the regular meetings. Alderman Frink stated the Aldermen
need to discuss the Port collectively as a Board. Alderman Adams motioned to
defer action on items X-a & b until January 16 Board Retreat. The vote was 2
ayes, Aldermen Adams and Frink. 3 noes, Aldermen Karn, Boguskie and Poole.
Motion failed 2 -3
V.
Public Comments
The following persons addressed the Board either for or against the proposed
international port.
FOR
Mr. Leo Sheppard, 4301 McClellan Drive, Wilmington, NC and a Member of ILA
Local #1426 ask the Board to continue its resolution of support for the Port,
which will bring an economic boost to the local economy.
Patrick Smith, 10192 Stony Brook Court, Leland, Chairman of the Executive Board
of Local 1838 in Southport, thanked the Board for its initial endorsement. The
Port will not change Southport, stating that people voiced the same arguments
against MOTSU and Progress Energy.
Glen E. Hart, owns property in Southport, but live in Bolivia stated that
working at the Port supports his family. The Port was initially supposed to be
in Southport. Due to the commitment of the longshoremen, they are known
worldwide for their quality work.
Julian Bell, 1745 Old Ocean Highway, Bolivia, in support of the Port.
Raymond Smith, 507 Caswell Avenue, in support of the Port, workers well trained
and qualified.
AGAINST
Rhodes Messick, Cottage Creek Road, Southport and Founder of No Port Southport
encouraged the Board to rescind the resolution of support by taking a neutral
position.
Susan Maynard, 3703 Tiger Lily Ct., presented a synopsis of a study released by
Lisa Crowbar, Professor, Department of Economics, California State University.
Jennifer Fuller, 811 North Caswell Avenue and Co-Director Coastal Water Watch
asked the Board to rescind its resolution of support for the Port.
Arlene Hufner, 1121 South Shore Drive, Boiling Spring Lakes requested the Board
rescind support of the Port.
John Lowery, 6122 River Sound Circle, Southport, spoke about health related
issues.
Tom Seaman, 822 North Howe Street, Port has no valid purpose in being built and
support the Board rescinding support of the resolution.
Nancy Harkey, 3628 Glen Eagle Drive, spoke against the Port because of
environmental issues.
Doug Stone, 6074 Sullivan's Ridge Road, spoke about pollution and crime.
Citizen (did not give name) encouraged citizens to talk with Suzanne Dorsey,
Executive Director of the Bald Head Island Conservancy on the unique
characteristics of Southeastern North Carolina. He requested the Board to vote
against the Port.
Woody Wilson, 502 West Brunswick Street, encouraged the Board to rescind the
resolution of support and encouraged a town hall meeting.
Bob Frangust, Southport, asked the Board to rescind the resolution.
Harry Burrell, Cattail Court, Southport spoke against the Port.
Emily Humphries, owner of Port City Java Coffee Shop, spoke against the
Planning Board's recommendation to remove off premise signs including "A" frame
signs placed on sidewalks. This type of enforcement is not encouraging to
business growth. A frame signs are the most inexpensive form of advertisement.
Mayor Howard thanked the citizens for their comments.
VI.
Committee Reports
Wastewater Committee: Alderman Boguskie reported that the sewer reversal
project is underway, easements cleared and in the process of building the Sandy
Lane Pump Station. City staff is now inspecting restaurant grease traps.
Planning: Mayor Howard announced that Donnie Joyner had been appointed to the
Planning Board from the ETJ.
VI.
Departmental Reports
Reports included in agenda packet.
VIII.
ElectriCities of N. C. T. Graham Edwards, CEO
Mr. Graham Edwards, Chief Executive Officer, Ken Raber, Sr. Vice President and
Dan Lamburg, Legislative Relations Specialist was present from ElectriCities to
discuss the partnership with the City of Southport which is comprised of 32
cities i.e. Southport. He cited ElectriCities indebtedness and the mechanisms
in place to pay the debt down. He stated his availability to provide additional
information to the Board.
IX.
Public Hearings
Alderman Karn motioned to enter Public Hearing, seconded by Alderman Boguskie,
the vote was unanimous. Motion passed 5-0
a)    City of Southport Zoning Amendment RZ 09-1110-01 (Bob Aughenbaugh)
Amy Nelson, Planning Director/Zoning Officer stated the zoning classification
request from R-20 to R-10 is a 10.17 acre tract at the corner of Stuart and
Highland Park Avenue. The future land use for this area is shown to be R-10.
Mrs. Susan Toth, 205 Holly Drive stated her opposition to the rezoning due to
the impact of traffic.
Mrs. Karen Knighton, 406 Stuart Avenue also expressed opposition due to the
impact of traffic and congestion.
Mr. Tom Kerner, 205 Stuart Avenue favored changing the rezoning to R-10 and
believes that single family residences would benefit the area.
Mr. Joey Brouchard, representing Southport Development, LLC stated it is his
belief that constructing houses in the area would be a benefit to the City and
the tract of land is rectangle and ideal to run a street from Highland to
Atlantic Avenue and this is the only tract of land within the City that is
zoned R-20. (Bob Aughenbach and Dr. Rudolph Mint, land owners)
Alderman Karn read an e-mail from Eric Beacham of 414 Yaupon Dr., opposed to
the zoning change. He shares 700 ft with the property proposing to be rezoned
and believes that a zoning change is not beneficial to the neighborhood and
would cause storm water issues.
b)    City of Southport Zoning Amendment RZ 09-1026-01 (withdrawn)
Ms. Nelson stated the above request was withdrawn.
c)    City of Southport Zoning Amendment Text change ZA 12-09-09-01
Mrs. Nelson presented a text change for Article 3. Administrative Mechanisms
Part 1. Planning and Zoning Board, Section 3-1 Membership and Vacancies:
Extraterritorial representatives shall have equal rights, privileges, and
duties with the other members of the board to which they are appointed,
regardless of whether the matters at issue arise within the City or within the
extraterritorial area.
Attorney Isenberg stated that this text change will clear the ambiguous
language in the City Code, however; ETJ members have voted on all matters
before the Planning Board. State law is specific about ETJ members and
clarifying the language will make the ordinance more specific.
No further comments from the public, Alderman Adams moved to re-enter regular
session, seconded by Alderman Karn. (9:19 p.m.) Motion passed 5-0.
Regular Session Reconvened
Attorney Isenberg told the Board that they should consider if the property is
rezoned, whether it is suitable to change from R-20 to R-10 zoning.
Alderman Adams noted that the Planning Board did not provide a recommendation
on the rezoning, however; staff did and he suggested the rezoning request be
sent back to the Planning Board for a recommendation. He motioned accordingly,
seconded by Alderman Boguskie. Discussion: Alderman Karn stated that he had
sufficient information to make a decision and believes that it is beneficial to
have an R-20 zoning district. Alderman Poole stated she attended the Planning
Board meeting when this was discussed and they declined to make a
recommendation. The vote on the motion was 3 ayes, Aldermen Adams, Frink and
Boguskie, 2 noes, Aldermen Poole and Karn. Motion passed 3-2.
Alderman Adams motioned, seconded by Alderman Karn to approve the text change
to Article 3. Administrative Mechanisms Part 1. Planning and Zoning Board,
Section 3-1 Membership and Vacancies: Extraterritorial representatives shall
have equal rights, privileges, and duties with the other members of the board
to which they are appointed, regardless of whether the matters at issue arise
within the City or within the extraterritorial area. Discussion: Alderman
Boguskie stated the text change is not required by state statute and ETJ
members should only vote on ETJ matters. Alderman Karn noted that the Planning
Board is an advisory board, not legislative and he does not have a problem with
the language change. In answer to Alderman Poole’s question, Amy Nelson noted
that there are no decisions by the Planning Board that the Alderman does not
review. Alderman Karn noted that recommendations regarding conditional uses are
reviewed by the Zoning Board of Adjustments. Mayor Howard called for the vote
on the motion, which was 3 ayes, Aldermen Adams, Karn and Poole. 2 noes,
Aldermen Boguskie and Frink. Motion passed 3-2.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-62.jpg]
 
RESOLUTION APPROVING TEXT AMENDMENT TO UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
THAT WHEREAS, the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance and other
land use ordinances that control land development within both the City’s
incorporated areas and within its extraterritorial area; and
WHEREAS, in order to promote the public health, safety and general welfare and
to promote the best interest of the city and community, it is necessary for the
City Board of Aldermen from time to time to consider appropriate revisions,
modifications and additions to the city’s land use ordinances; and
WHEREAS, the City Planning Director has prepared and submitted to the Planning
Board a proposed amendment to Article 3, Section 3-1, of the Southport Unified
Development Ordinance; and
WHEREAS, the Planning Board has considered this matter and has recommended that
this proposed amendment to the Unified Development Ordinance be approved; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the NC General Statutes and city ordinances, a public
hearing, properly noticed, was held on January 14, 2010, before the Board of
Aldermen regarding this issue; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen hereby finds that this proposed amendment to the
Unified Development Ordinance is consistent with the Southport CAMA Land Use
Plan; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that this amendment is reasonable
and in the public interest in that (i) in order to bring the Unified
Development Ordinance up-to-date after careful review, occasional adjustments
are necessary, including those associated with the City’s Extraterritorial
Jurisdiction, (ii) this amendment is necessary to clarify when ETJ members can
vote on City of Southport issues in the City of Southport and its
extraterritorial jurisdiction, and (iii) it concurs with the rights, privileges
and duties allowed by NC General Statute § 160A-362.;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that the
attached amendment and addition to the Southport Unified Development Ordinance
is hereby approved and adopted.
This 14th day of January, 2010.
By:    ________________________
Mayor
ATTEST:    ______________________
      Clerk
Attorney Isenberg stated adoption of an ordinance requires two-thirds vote on
the first reading, since only five board members were present, the ordinance
will require a second reading. Mayor Howard requested this item be placed on
the February agenda.
X.
Old Business
a)    Discussion of Existing Resolution of Support for Proposed International
Cargo Port Project
Alderman Karn stated that it is his belief that Southport has been ignored by
the State Ports Authority and the City should be engaged in the process. He
recommended repealing the resolution that was adopted on July 13, 2006
“requesting the N. C. DOT to conduct the engineering and environmental studies
required for development of the transportation infrastructure required for the
development of the N.C. International Port in Brunswick County” and to notify
the Department of Transportation, State Ports Authority, the Army Corp of
Engineers, and the Governor of this action, motion seconded by Alderman
Boguskie. Discussion:  Alderman Adams stated that the State Ports had a public
meeting at South Brunswick High School and a special invitation was extended to
the citizens of Southport. Alderman Poole stated rescinding the resolution will
place the City in a neutral position. The votes were 3 ayes, Aldermen Karn,
Boguskie and Poole. 2 noes, Aldermen Adams and Frink . Motion passed 3-2
b)    Discussion of Fort Johnston / Garrison House
Alderman Karn proposed that the Fort Johnston Committee be tasked with finding
organization (s) that can occupy the Garrison House, because the two goals
should be to establish it as a historical site and to pay for maintenance and
utilities. The Fort Johnston Committee should solicit public input and discuss
with the Historical Society expenses, and to consider other entities which
could help defray the cost of maintenance and utilities.
Alderman Boguskie, former Chair of the Fort Johnston Committee stated each time
a recommendation was submitted to the Board, that it was voted down. There are
grant monies available for historical sites.
Alderman Poole concurred with statements by Aldermen Karn and Boguskie. She
stated that citizens have also voiced concerns about the tennis courts.
Alderman Adams stated tennis courts will be installed at Lowe-White Park and
the area is needed for a parking lot as originally proposed.
Alderman Karn then motioned to rescind the December 10 motion and to task the
Fort Johnston Committee with recommending a plan to the Board that would
establish Fort Johnston and the Garrison House as a historical site and to
generate income to pay maintenance and utilities. Motion seconded by Alderman
Boguskie. Discussion: Alderman Adams questioned whether the Fort Johnston
Committee suggested this action or if was generated from one Board member.
Alderman Karn stated he showed the proposal to Alderman Frink as Chair of the
Fort Johnston Committee and she voiced no objections, but the overall
recommendation will come from the Committee. The votes were 3 ayes, Aldermen
Karn, Boguskie and Poole. 2 noes, Aldermen Adams and Frink.
Motion passed 3-2
XI.
New Business
d)    Discussion of Operating Procedures of the Board of Aldermen
Alderman Karn stated the Board had previously discussed pre-agenda meetings and
he thought this warranted further discussion. The Clerk did provide the Board
with copies of a resolution adopted on January 13, 2000 stating “that anyone
wishing to submit an item or items for the agenda must do so no later than 14
days prior to the date of the Board meeting.”  He did not realize that this was
in place. Mayor Howard explained if anyone has an agenda item after the 14
days, the agenda has to be amended.
e)    Appointment of City’s Representative to NCEMPA
Alderman Poole motioned to accept the Mayor’s recommendation by appointing M.
Alan Thornton, City Manager as the City’s representative to the NCEMPA, Ralph
Cardwell, Public Services Director and Alderman Boguskie as alternates,
seconded by Alderman Karn. Discussion: Alderman Adams recommended retaining Mr.
Fisher on the Board as a private citizen because of his knowledge of the
municipal power agency. Alderman Boguskie stated people representing various
cities are employees or elected officials. The vote on the motion was 4 ayes,
Aldermen Poole, Karn, Frink and Boguskie. 1 no, Alderman Adams. Motion passed
4-1.
f)    Appointment of Alderman to DSI Board
Alderman Poole motioned to appoint Alderman Karn to the Downtown Southport Inc.
Board, seconded by Alderman Boguskie. The vote was 5 ayes. Motion passed 5-0
g)    Discussion of Provision of Public Notice Requirement for City of
Southport
Boards and Committees
This item was withdrawn.
h)    Request to relocate an existing residence
Mr. Thornton explained that the City Code of Ordinances, Chapter 16, Article 1,
Section 16-4 requires that the Board approve house moving by written consent,
and a deposit or sufficient bond be posted to cover damages to streets or
sidewalks. A request was made by Milligan House Movers of Tabor City, NC to
relocate a single family dwelling located at 302 Brown Street. Staff recommends
approval. The City has in prior years charged a $50 permit fee and requested a
copy of their indemnity policy be filed with the Clerk.
Alderman Boguskie moved to approve the house moving request and to request the
company to provide a copy of their indemnity policy sufficient to protect the
City from damages as may be deemed by the City Manager and Attorney. Motion
seconded by Alderman Frink. Vote unanimous. Motion passed 5-0.
Alderman Poole motioned, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to direct the City
Manager to make recommended language change to the house moving ordinance. Vote
unanimous.
Motion passed 5-0
i)   Tax Release
Alderman Boguskie motioned, seconded by Alderman Poole to approve the
Hutchinson White 2009 tax release in the amount of $108.56 (property annexed 9/
10/09 and prorated for 2009) Vote unanimous. Passed 5-0
XII.
Other Business
None
XIII.
City Manager Comments
Board Retreat, Saturday, January 16, 2010, 8:00 a.m. at Dosher Hospital Board
Room (Hood Building).
XIV.
Board Comments
Alderman Karn announced the MLK Celebration on Sunday January 17 and Monday,
January 18, 2010.
XV.
Executive Session –NCGS 143-318.11 (a) (5)
Alderman Poole motioned to table the closed session until Saturday, January 16,
2010, seconded by Alderman Karn, vote unanimous. Passed 5-0
XVI.
Adjournment – 10:25 p.m.
Alderman Boguskie motioned to adjourn, seconded by Alderman Karn, vote
unanimous. Passed 5-0
_______________________________
Robert D. Howard, Mayor
___________________________________
Regina W. Alexander, MMC, City Clerk
JANUARY 16, 2010
RETREAT MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN                          RETREAT MINUTES
JANUARY 16, 2010                           8:00 A.M.
DOSHER HOSPITAL BOARD ROOM (Hood Building) SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Robert D. Howard, Mayor
            Aldermen Nelson E. Adams, Ed Boguskie, Ken Karn, Jwantana Frink
            and Mary Ellen Poole
STAFF:         M. Alan Thornton, City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander, City Clerk
            Patty Miller, Finance Director
            Ralph Cardwell, Public Services Director
            Randy Jones, Director of Tourism
            Heather Hemphill, Director of Parks and Recreation
            Amy Nelson, Director of Planning
            Jerry Dove, Chief of Police
            Neil Sage, Chief of Rescue
I.
Call to Order - 8:00 A.M.
Mayor Howard called the meeting to order and pronounced the invocation.
Welcome and Overview of Objectives
City Manager Thornton, Facilitator, stated the purpose of the retreat is for
the Board in an informal setting with staff to establish goals and objectives
for the year.
Departmental Reports
Fire Department - Chief Greg Cumbee was unable to attend the retreat, City
Manager Thornton presented the Fire Department's written report to the Board.
Rescue Department - Neil Sage, Rescue Chief
∙   Proposed to revise the standard operating procedures for the Rescue Squad
i.e. active membership roll
∙   Proposed to pay for schooling for members
∙   Proposed service contracts to deal with hydraulic systems i.e. air handlers
∙   Planning pig picking for Rescue personnel i.e. fire and police departments
∙   Need bunk rooms
∙   Planning a food drive
∙   Online shifts
∙   Implementation of drug screening through Sheriff Department
∙   Discussed with the Board complaints received about vehicles and the manner
in which they are being driven including requirements to operate rescue
vehicles.
∙   Running above 97-98% of calls
∙   Received $1,000 from Wal-Mart Foundation, purchased television for training
room
∙   8 members seeking higher level of certification through training
∙   Request new ambulance in budget FY 2010-2011
Police Department -Jerry Dove, Chief
∙   2 certified training officers in department
∙   3 new police vehicles purchased, 5 year longevity about standard for
vehicles.
∙   Safe Neighborhood Program, gang identification and recognition program
∙   First Aid and AED Instructor in department
∙   Police Youth Outreach Program (High Impact) graduated 8 children from
Southport Elementary
∙   Digital cameras issued to each officer purchased with contribution from
Wal-Mart
∙   2010 goals are to continue with community policing and citizen service
program through the We Care Program  
∙   Youth Outreach Program (High Impact), Grant provided through the Governors
Crime Commission to fund program 2009-2010
∙   Grant provided through Criminal Justice Improvement Plan to fund officer's
overtime to perform extra patrols, surveillance in areas reported criminal
activity with special emphasis on narcotics interdiction and reduction.
∙   Training, the goal this year is to send the officers to the Highway Patrol
Training Center to participate in their driving course.
∙   Propose to purchase 3 new vehicles FY 2010-2011
∙   Personnel- lost two full time and one reserve officer, will propose to
raise the starting salary in FY 2010-2011. Retention of personnel is a problem
because of low pay
∙   Equipment - purchased new side arms
∙   Need for office space discussed
∙   Mayor noted that City Manager is working on a space study. Alderman Adams
stated the City needs to build a new City Hall, now is the time to begin the
process.
∙   Public Safety- Alderman Adams asked that the Chief work with the Manager
and DOT on setback visibility at the intersection of state roads. Summer
uniforms was discussed and the need to look professional.
∙   Propose to reinstitute the corporal rank.
∙   Chief Dove explained the take home policy of vehicles, majority of officers
live within radius of 7-8 miles, and 3 live in Southport.
∙   Alderman Poole requested copies of mutual aid agreements. The Clerk noted
that they are on file in her office.
Department of Tourism - Randy Jones
∙   2009 tourist visits off by 6%
∙   Community Building revenues up, cost to use the facilities has not
increased but sustained itself
∙   Board discussed the occupancy tax and possibly the need to increase it
comparable to other municipalities in the area.
∙   Revenues from Community Building and accommodations tax approximately
$140,000
∙   Visitor Center has 36 volunteers
∙   Tourism Department partnered with DSI to promote tourism; the need for
additional advertising was discussed.
∙   Alderman Boguskie asked about Price's Creek Lighthouse and the need for
Southport to have its own. Mr. Jones stated this was in the process but after
911, security issues were a problem for ADM. Mr. Jones stated that this matter
may need to be revisited.
∙   Aldermen expressed concern about trucks being driven on the Garrison lawn
during the market season. This concern will be passed on to Peg McDonald,
Executive Director.
∙   Mr. Jones explained that the Aldermen and City employees can rent the
Community Building once a year for $50 per/hr. Jones explained that this was a
policy put in place by the former Community Building Committee.
∙   The availability of the Community Building was discussed to move City
Council meetings due to accessibility.
∙   In concluding his report, Mr. Jones submitted his letter of resignation
effective April 7, 2010.
Parks & Recreation - Heather Hemphill
∙   Heather reported that all programs numbers are up
∙   Parks and Recreation is working with a Youth Advisory Council in
cooperation with South Brunswick Middle and High Schools
∙   Discussed capital needs i.e. the need to do something with Fort Johnston
tennis courts if they are not going to be removed. She explained that the
playground equipment needs to be updated, however; she recommends against
keeping the playground.
∙   Caviness Park equipment needs updating
∙   City Gym has heating and air issues, cracks in back wall which needs to be
repaired.
∙   Senior Citizens Building needs repair work.
∙   Jaycee building has been remodeled inside, but needs some outside work.
∙   Lowe-White Park scheduled to be completed in April
∙   9th street property formerly Stevens Park has seven (7) acres which needs
to be developed
Board discussed removal of trees and ways to have them removed i.e. contacting
International Paper Co per recommendation of Alderman Adams. Mayor suggested
contacting a university to perform a study on best use of the seven (7) acres
for land use and planning. Ms. Hemphill told the Board that a study was
performed by the developer four years ago.
∙   Ms. Hemphill told the Board of 3000 surveys sent out, she received 158
responses and construction of ball fields was number one.
∙   Ms. Hemphill noted the City can apply for a Partff Grant to assist with
developing the 9th street park area
Planning - Amy Nelson
∙   Discussed new state law extending development approvals
∙   Safe Route to Schools Grant
∙   Stated the importance of the 2010 Census.
∙   Discussed the sign ordinance and lack of enforcement, stating that staff
needs direction from the Board. Aldermen discussed with staff enforcement of
signs on state rights of way and how much leeway the City has to enforce such
encroachments. Mayor Howard asked for a recommendation from the Planning Board
realizing that the City has an existing ordinance on the books which is not
being enforced.
∙   Ms. Nelson told the Board that the City acquired a Plotter for making maps
and once a GIS system is purchased, staff will keep annexations and rezonings
current.
Public Services - Ralph Cardwell
∙   Electric - City contracts with Brunswick Electric Membership Corporation
for electrical service
∙   Automatic Meter Reading instituted for residential customers.
∙   Load Management accounts audited, program qualifies as a green credit.
∙   Department performs energy audits in cooperation with ElectriCities
representative.
∙   Mayor recommended rate reviews and a streamlined rate structure in order to
be able to compare rates with Progress and BEMC. Mr. Cardwell explained that in
some instances, the City's rates are cheaper than Progress and Brunswick
Electric,
∙   i.e. R-12 with full load management. R-6 and R-9 almost equal, but R-1 is
higher. City's load management qualifies as green credit. Mayor stated that the
Electric Committee can review and make recommendation to the Board.
∙   Wastewater sewer reversal project on task, property cleared for lift site
at Sandy Lane. City's meter box is located near Dutchman Acres and up to this
point are the City's customers. He stated that the UDO needs to be reviewed
because in order to be a customer, one must be located within the City limits.
The City needs to consider how it will handle out of town customers. City can
offer them sewer, but the Board must vote on each issue.
∙   Department has initiated full enforcement of the Fog Program i.e. which is
in the UDO. Restaurants are supposed to have a grease interceptor and control
discharge into the City's system, which has never been enforced. Brunswick
County monitors this program and it has to be in place in order for the County
to accept the City's sewer, if not the City will be charged for the treatment
of the grease.
∙   Bay Street Lift Station needs upgrading. Alderman Adams asked about the
lift station at the end of Burrington which needs vegetation planted.
∙   Bay street generator needs to be replaced and this will be placed in the
Capital Improvement Plan.
∙   Water System- an automated pressure reducing valve for the Leonard Street
vault has been placed in the Capital Improvement Plan.
∙   City need to update some of the old galvanized lines that are still in
place.
∙   At present the City is losing 20% of its water. Staff will begin auditing
water taps, and the graveyard should be metered for accountability.
∙   Currently have one grade B operator in charge of the City's Water
Distribution System and the state has informed him that the City will
eventually need a backup operator. Training will be required for operators and
he proposes to train from within. Mayor stated this will be an opportunity for
mutual aid from other municipalities. Also need to train for a backflow
operator because of the possibility of losing an employee to the County.
Employees at Wastewater Plant also operate the sewer collection system which
requires at least two employees.
∙   Buildings and Grounds - Supervisor retired on disability, have one full
time and a temporary employee in this department.
∙   Obtained a mosquito sprayer from City of Greenville, will need more
chemicals, this year and the City will seek additional help from Brunswick
County.
∙   City needs a building maintenance program, attended a seminar for grant
monies but in order to apply, the City must have a facilities management
program.
∙   Mr. Cardwell stated the need for another mosquito control operator and
proposes that an employee in the wastewater department be trained. Mr. Cardwell
discussed the need for staff to inspect city buildings i.e. leased facilities
which could come under a building maintenance program.
∙   Buildings and Grounds budget pays for all City utilities, if a facilities
management program was implemented, this would be monitored.
∙   Board discussed parking study, city streets, sidewalk repairs and powell
bill funds
∙   Debris clean up discussed and the need to work on this program. Placed a
chipper in the Capital Improvement Plan. Alderman Adams suggested once the City
owns the 400 acres, possibility use some of this property. Dump trucks cannot
legally transport debris because of 2 ft sides, currently using Kenny McClain's
site.
V.   Southport Visioning for 2010
∙   Financial Status - FY 2010-2011 Budget & Capital Improvement Plan
Revenue and expenditure sheet provided. 91% o of ad valorem taxes collected as
of January 5 2010.
∙   Recommended fund balance is 24% of operating budget, LGC requires 8%.
∙   Fund Balance in general fund is $3,020,139 of which $1,960,244 available
for spending. Percent of general fund collected 60.83%, expenditures to date
45.47%
∙   Electric Fund balance $2,918,137, available for spending $1,286,737,
percent collected 52.34% and expenditures to date 49.06%
∙   Water & Sewer Fund balance $1,717,073, available for spending which is
restricted for Capital use only is $1,238,813, percent revenues collected
56.30, expenditures to date 50.70
∙   Presented debt service schedule with pay off date or renewable.
∙   Finance department bills for utilities and tax collection, monitor
automatic meter reading, load management, request for proposals for banking
services, cell phone under one provider and saved money. Mayor recommended
looking into time warner cable, initiated identity theft policy.
∙   Stated the need for additional office space, technology updates
∙   Restructured the office as a result of an employee retiring, will be
sending employees for training.
∙   Instituted debt set off program
∙   New tax legislation provides that contractors do not have to pay property
taxes until property is sold, interest will accrue on taxes.
∙   City Manager provided copies of Capital Improvement Plan and gauged the
Board's input before budget preparation began.
∙   Discussed ABC revenues which equates to at least .03 on the tax rate. City
has the second most profitable ABC Store in N.C. and possibly one of the better
operated stores in N.C. The Governor has established a review committee to
study local ABC Store practices. It may be a possibility that changes may be
forthcoming that could possibly affect revenues. Staff will be looking at ways
to offset revenues i.e. increase in occupancy tax.
∙   Mayor recommended looking at service duplication i.e. Brunswick County
providing some services, and the City should receive some services for its tax
dollars. Mr. Thornton stated the County does offset per household garbage
∙   collection and there is discussion about curbside recycling, which may
change the fee structure. Parks and Recreation may be another area that can be
discussed.
∙   Capital Improvement Plan reviewed and the Manager asked the Board to
consider what programs need to be incorporated.
∙   Manager sent request for qualifications to compare experience and
qualifications of contractors when considering the space needs analysis.
∙   Waste Industry's Contract expire December 31, 2010, current contract price
approximately $90,000 i.e. yard debris and recycling.
Alderman Poole referenced compensation and benefits for the Board totaling
$32,500 in the budget, which includes a monthly salary of $250 per Alderman,
$350 Mayor, and $25 for special meetings, if members elect to get paid. The
City is also expending $60,000 for insurance which includes health, life,
dental and vision. Alderman Poole recommended the Board seek ways to cut cost,
the same as expected of other departments. She asked the Board to consider
reducing their salary and health benefits.
Alderman Adams stated Board members are available 24 hours a day and deserve
benefits they are allowed because of always being on the job. However, if any
member does not want to accept the benefits, it is their right to decline.
Alderman Karn stated he would not want to do away with benefits that are
beneficial to others and this should be considered on an individual basis.
Ms. Miller explained that according to the City's insurance carrier, elected
officials are considered employees. The Board discussed options, and more or
less agreed that it depends on individual situations whether each member
accepts or declines City benefits. Alderman Boguskie asked Ms. Miller to check
the guidelines with Medicare vs. CIGNA.
∙   Alderman Poole noted that Planning Board members receive $25 per meeting,
but other Boards/Committees do not and she has been asked this question.
Personnel System Improvement Objectives:
City Manager Thornton stated that a portion of the insurance is for retirees
pursuant to a personnel policy amendment adopted in 2003. He stated that
benefits will be evaluated and possibly modified based upon years of service.
In the past, employees were required to have a number of years with the City
before they received health insurance until the age of 65. Ms. Miller explained
that the existing policy states if you have years of creditable service with
the N.C. Retirement System and become employed by the City of Southport, they
can retire and receive health insurance from the City with as little as one
year of service. This has caused the City's liability to increase approximately
$4,000,000 which includes existing employees.
Mrs. Miller stated the Board will need to adopt a resolution if it chooses to
pay as you go with the OPED benefits. She stated that a resolution would be
prepared to present to the Board.
City Manager Thornton stated the need for the City's Personnel Policy to be
updated and Chris May of the Cape Fear Council of Governments submitted an
estimate of $3,000 to update the policy and job descriptions. In answer to
question by Alderman Karn, Mr. Thornton noted that there is no provision in the
budget for merit pay, however cost of living increases has been given annually.
He discussed retention of employees and incentives. Mayor Howard stated that
the Board is not in a position to consider merit pay because the city is just
implementing performance evaluations, and this will take a few years to
benchmark.
Alderman Boguskie motioned, seconded by Alderman Karn, to employ Cape Fear
Council of Governments to review and update the City's personnel policy i.e.
job descriptions. The vote was unanimous. Motion passed 5-0
Services and Spaces Consolidation Discussion:
Spatial analysis process is moving forward, several RFQ's have been received
and the Manager will update the Board on the process. Mayor Howard asked about
the annexed building behind the old jail, which could be a component of the
study. It was noted by Mr. Maisel that the Southport Historical Society uses
one room for storage. Alderman Karn noted that the Friends of the Library also
use the facility.
Public Open Spaces Development Plans and Direction
City Manager Thornton discussed better utilization of areas in the City and
proposed that the City develop initiatives and a streetscape to enhance the
downtown, waterfront, i.e. the yacht basin area to include sidewalks,
decorative lighting, parking and green spaces. Mayor Howard suggested that this
be a task for the Transportation and Traffic Committee with staff to develop
and bring an implementation plan to the Board.
Alderman Boguskie suggested that parking areas be delineated along the Bay
Street area near the Yacht Basin.
Southport Future Annexation Objectives
Mayor Howard discussed the need to consider Southport's economic survival. He
suggested the Board consider a request for proposals for a consultant. Alderman
Boguskie stated that the previous proposed annexation was connecting the dots,
and the City needs the commercial corridor in which the Board agreed.
Mayor Howard directed the City Manger to develop an annexation schedule and the
initial resolutions to be considered by the Board. City Manager was directed to
develop a request for proposals to consultant services.
Other Items
Relocation of Council Chambers:  Mayor Howard stated the need for accessibility
for any citizen wishing to attend council meetings but also concerned about
some of the ramifications of relocating council meetings. Alderman Adams
expressed concern about the inconvenience for citizens, but also expressed
concern for staff. He related that some of the meetings have been held in the
Community Building as well as other areas of the City.
Mayor Howard asked Alderman Karn to work with the City Manager to determine the
availability of the Community Building for the February meeting.
Alderman Poole motioned, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to authorize the City
Manager and Alderman Karn to determine if the February meeting can be held in
the Community Building, and if this is determined; the meeting will be moved to
the Community Building. Motion passed 5-0  (Alderman Karn will look into the
sound system and what is needed for the facility)
City Manager Thornton asked if the Board wished to pursue increasing the
occupancy tax from 3% to 5%. If so, this will require a provision to the
language in the local bill and the legislative body will need to present the
change to the General Assembly. It was Board consensus to direct the Manager to
proceed with modifying the language for the local bill and present back to the
Board.
Alderman Poole suggested having special town meetings once a quarter or twice a
year to give citizens the opportunity to ask questions. She suggested that the
first be held at the new fire station in cooperation with the open house. Mayor
Howard recommended Alderman Poole meet with Chief Cumbee to discuss this
matter.
Mayor Howard suggested the Board:
∙   Consider alternative uses for the property near sunny point that was
proposed for a spray field site.
∙   Review the policy for funding insurance for staff and retirees
∙   City's website needs to be enhanced
∙   Program for trimming trees
∙   Recommended each Board member gets a copy of Rules of Procedures for City
Councils
Board needs to adopt procedures
∙   All members need the ethics training
Alderman Frink asked that Board members respect each other and work together.
4:28 p.m. Executive Session: Alderman Poole motioned to enter closed session to
discuss the acquisition of real property that is located in the Old Yacht Basin
owned by the Chirico's, seconded by Alderman Adams. Motion passed 5-0
Alderman Poole asked the Board to consider purchasing property or a portion
thereof that is owned by the Chirico's on West Bay Street. Board members
reviewed a map with the property delineated. Alderman Poole provided a list of
considerations for funding sources and suggestions of how the property can be
used. Alderman Adams suggested a Committee be appointed with Mayor Howard being
the Chief Negotiator. The Consensus of the Board was to proceed. No further
discussion.
4:56 p.m.  Alderman Karn motioned to re-enter regular session, seconded by
Alderman Frink. The vote was unanimous.
In regular session, Alderman Poole motioned, seconded by Alderman Adams to
appoint a committee to include Mayor Howard, Aldermen Poole, Frink, City
Manager, and; to begin negotiations to obtain an option to purchase property
and the amount not to exceed $1,750,000.
5:01 p.m. Mayor Howard adjourned the meeting upon motion of Alderman Karn,
seconded by Alderman Frink. The vote was unanimous.
__________________________________
Mayor
_______________________________
City Clerk
FEBRUARY 11, 2010
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
FEBRUARY 11, 2010 7:30 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, NC
 
PRESENT:         Robert D. Howard, Mayor
            Aldermen Nelson Adams, Ed Boguskie, Donnie Potter, Kenneth Karn,
            Mary Ellen Poole and Jwantana Frink
ABSENT:         None
STAFF:         M. Alan Thornton, City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander, MMC, Clerk
            Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
OTHERS:         Patty Miller, Director of Finance
            Amy Nelson, Director of Planning
            Ralph Cardwell, Director of Public Services
            Heather Hemphill, Directors of Parks and Recreation
            Randy Jones, Director of Tourism
            Jerry Dove, Chief of Police
I.
Call to Order - 7:30 p.m.
Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 7:30 p.m.
Mayor Howard spoke about the celebration of life held in honor of Firefighter
Teddy Holloman and the outpouring of sympathy and solidarity shown by the
community including firefighters, rescue and police personnel. A moment of
silence was observed by the Board in his honor.
II.
Invocation
Mayor Howard pronounced the invocation.
III.
Approval of Minutes
Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Frink to approve the January 14
regular meeting minutes. Vote unanimous. Motion passed 6-0
Mayor Howard asked if any member of the Board of Aldermen knew of any conflict
of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect to matters
on the agenda and to please state it. There were none.
IV.
Approval of Agenda
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to approve the agenda with
the following amendments IX. f) Cape Fear Arch (Karn), g) Resolution supporting
the establishment of a VA Hospital in Brunswick County (Boguskie), h) Planning
Board (Poole), i) Southport Woman's Club Request (Howard), j) Arbor Day
Proclamation (Howard), k) Fire Department Change Orders (Thornton), l) meeting
location and conference speaker system (Karn), m) Sign Ordinance (Poole), n)
tax release and authorization to advertise tax liens (Thornton). Vote of
approval was unanimous. Motion passed 6-0
V.
Public Comments
Mrs. Shirley Wilson of 502 West Brunswick Street and Visitor Center Volunteer
publicly thanked Randy Jones for his contributions to the City as Director of
Tourism.
Mrs. Karen Knighton, 406 Stuart Street and Visitor Center Volunteer thanked
Randy Jones for creating a positive environment in promoting the City of
Southport. She also stated her endorsement of the Cape Fear Arch Organization.
Alderman Poole read a statement from Susan Toth opposing rezoning of the
Aughenbaugh property at N. Atlantic and Stuart Avenue. (Letter placed on file
in the office of the Clerk)
Mr. Tom Carter, resident of Stuart Avenue spoke in support of rezoning the
property from R-20 to R-10. It is his belief that more single or dual family
dwellings will enhance the community.
VI.
Committee Reports
Transportation and Traffic Committee: Alderman Boguskie stated the Committee
met and discussed a streetscape for the lower part of Bay Street. Ralph
Cardwell, Public Services Director is seeking bids/estimates on resurfacing
Moore Street for parking spaces and the Committee is also looking at Park
Avenue Extension including installing sidewalks.
Electric Committee: Alderman Poole stated the Committee met, reviewed and
discussed the 2009 annual energy report, expenditure statement of the City's
electric fund, compared the residential load management switch program to other
cities in North Carolina, reviewed and discussed the contract for operation and
maintenance of the electric distribution system with BEMC i.e. the City's
electric rates, powell bill statement from the NCEMPA, and an update on the
automated meter reading program.
Downtown Southport Inc (DSI): Alderman Karn stated a new membership policy will
be drafted with goals to open membership to more people in the community, which
will result in a change to the bylaws and Board of Directors. He and Peggy
McDonald, Executive Director attended the North Carolina Main Street
Conference. DSI is trying to engage the merchants and he will work diligently
to seek ways to help local merchants.
Web Page Committee: Mayor Howard appointed Alderman Karn to work with the City
Manager to evaluate the City's web page for upgrading.
Planning Board: Mayor Howard appointed Alderman Poole, Chairperson, Alderman
Karn and Tish Hatem to a Committee to interview applicants for the Planning
Board. He asked that a recommendation be made at the March meeting.
Zoning Board of Adjustment: Mayor Howard requested the City Manager advertise
the vacancy on the Zoning Board of Adjustment and the above referenced
Committee interview the applicants.
Planning Board: Mayor Howard requested Alderman Poole to lead an effort with
Tish Hatem, Buddy Barnes, Alan Thornton and Amy Nelson to look at the Planning
Board operating procedures and relations between the Planning Board, Board of
Aldermen and City staff.
Fort Johnston Committee: Mayor Howard stated he will make additional
appointments to this Committee.
VII.
Departmental Reports
Reports included in agenda packet.
VIII.
Old Business
a)    Zoning Amendment RZ 09-1110-01
Mrs. Nelson, Planning Director presented staff's evaluation on the rezoning
request and explained that staff recommends approval of the request to rezone
10.17 acres at 412 Stuart Avenue from R-20 (residential) to R-10 because:
∙   Staff believes that the proposed request is consistent with the intent and
purpose of the CAMA Land Use Plan
∙   Impact on City services will be negligible
∙   Traffic impact on Stuart Avenue will be minimal, traffic on Howe Street
will be impacted slightly
∙   The requested rezoning to R-10 is compatible with the City of Southport's
regulatory documents and would not have an unreasonable impact on the
surrounding community and will enhance the public health, safety, and general
welfare for the reasons stated in the evaluation.
∙   The Planning Board recommended approval of the rezoning.
Alderman Karn referenced Article 4, Section 4-1, (B) Application asking if the
proposed amendment was in the interest of the public and not the property owner
pursuant to this section of the UDO.
Attorney Isenberg stated the application does not have to specifically state
those words but the application must show evidence where staff and the Board
can find that it is beneficial to the public.
(B) Application. A complete application for any amendment shall contain a
description of the proposed zoning regulation or zoning map amendment. The
application shall state in detail whether the proposed amendment is consistent
with the City Comprehensive Plan, CAMA Core Land Use Plan, and any other
officially adopted plan that is applicable. The application shall also give
detailed evidence that the proposed amendment is in the interest and will
benefit the general public and not solely be of benefit to the applicant; that
the uses within the proposed zoning district are similar or comparable to the
uses in the district as currently zoned, or that none of the uses permitted in
the proposed zoning district may potentially adversely affect property values
or the health, safety, morals, or general welfare of the residents of the
surrounding area. Such application shall be filed with the Administrator to be
processed in accord with Section 12-5. (Revised 4/13/06)
Mr. Joey Brouchard representing Southport Development, LLC (Dr. Mintz and Mr.
Aughenbach) stated rezoning the property would benefit the public in several
ways and cited drainage and flood control since this area is subject to
flooding.
Alderman Adams stated the Planning Board and staff did what was asked of them
and he was satisfied with their recommendation.
Alderman Boguskie referenced a traffic impact study performed by Greene
Transportation in 2007 which cited the traffic pattern where Stuart intersects
with Howe Street, River Road, Hwy 211 and Robert Ruark. He stated that Stuart
being in close proximity to this area has a lot of traffic particularly with
the opening of a new restaurant. Ms. Nelson stated a traffic impact study was
not performed, but will be considered during the site plan review.
Alderman Adams motioned to accept the Planning Board and staff's recommendation
to rezone 10.17 acres at 412 Stuart Avenue from R-20 (residential) to R-10and
to adopt the Resolution. Motion seconded by Alderman Frink. Discussion:
Alderman Adams stated if this request is denied, it will place the Board in a
position to tell Brunswick Community College that they cannot expand because of
traffic. Alderman Poole stated she considered the nine (9) adjoining lots which
are zoned R-20, which is one of the few areas in the City that has larger lots.
Alderman Potter stated if the UDO is incorrect, it needs to be fixed and stated
support of staff's recommendation. Mayor Howard called for the vote: 3 ayes,
Aldermen Adams, Frink and Potter, 3 noes, Aldermen Poole, Karn and Boguskie.
Mayor Howard voted in the affirmative to break the tie. Motion passed 4 -3
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-62.jpg]
 
RESOLUTION APPROVING A REZONING REQUEST FROM R-20 (RESIDENTIAL AGRICULTURAL
DISTRICT) TO R-10 (RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT) FOR 10.17 ACRES LOCATED AT 412 STUART
AVENUE
THAT WHEREAS, the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance, other land
use ordinances, and a zoning map that control land development within both the
City's incorporated areas and within its extraterritorial area; and
WHEREAS, in order to promote the public health, safety and general welfare and
to promote the best interest of the city and community, it is necessary for the
City Board of Aldermen from time to time to consider appropriate revisions,
modifications and additions to the city's zoning map; and
WHEREAS, Mr. Robert Aughenbaugh has filed an application for a zoning map
amendment requesting that 10.17 acres located at 412 Stuart Avenue be rezoned
from R-20 to R-10; and
WHEREAS, the City Planning Director has prepared and submitted to the Planning
Board a favorable staff recommendation; and
WHEREAS, the Planning Board has considered this matter and has recommended that
this proposed rezoning be approved; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the NC General Statutes and city ordinances, a public
hearing, properly noticed, was held on January 14, 2010, before the Board of
Aldermen regarding this issue; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen hereby finds that this proposed rezoning is
consistent with the Southport CAMA Land Use Plan; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that this amendment is reasonable
and in the public interest in that (i) the overall size of the tract of land
proposed for rezoning is reasonable when compared to the size of the zoning
district in which the subject property is located, (ii) the proposed rezoning
is consistent with the CAMA Land Use Plan, (iii) the impact to the adjacent
property owners and the surrounding community is reasonable, and the benefits
of the rezoning outweigh any potential inconvenience or harm to the community,
and (iv) the allowed uses within the proposed zoning district are similar or
comparable to uses permitted as currently zoned;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that the
rezoning request for 412 Stuart Avenue and alteration to the Southport Zoning
Map is hereby approved and adopted.
This, 11th day of February, 2010.
/s/ Robert D. Howard
Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk
b)    Resolution Approving Text Amendment to City of Southport UDO, 2nd Reading
City Manager Thornton stated the amendment received a 3-2 vote at the January
meeting; and as a result, the amendment is being presented for a second reading
. He stated the amendment is to clarify the intent of the Ordinance; which will
not change the operation of the Planning Board.
AMENDMENT TO CITY OF SOUTHPORT UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
TEXT AMENDMENT # 12-09-09-01
An Ordinance Amending the City of Southport Unified Development Ordinance, With
Respect to Planning, Zoning and Development
AMEND:
1)    Article 3, ADMINISTRATIVE MECHANISMS
Part I. PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD
Section 3-1 "Membership and Vacancies" is hereby amended by adding the
following terminology:
Extraterritorial representatives shall have equal rights, privileges, and
duties with the other members of the board to which they are appointed,
regardless of whether the matters at issue arise within the city or within the
extraterritorial area.
2)    This ordinance is effective upon the date of adoption.
Alderman Karn motioned, seconded by Alderman Adams to approve the amendment and
resolution per recommendation of staff and Planning Board. Motion passed 5-
1 with Alderman Boguskie voting no because this is not required by North
Carolina General Statutes.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-62.jpg]
 
RESOLUTION APPROVING TEXT AMENDMENT TO UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
THAT WHEREAS, the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance and other
land use ordinances that control land development within both the City's
incorporated areas and within its extraterritorial area; and
WHEREAS, in order to promote the public health, safety and general welfare and
to promote the best interest of the city and community, it is necessary for the
City Board of Aldermen from time to time to consider appropriate revisions,
modifications and additions to the city's land use ordinances; and
WHEREAS, the City Planning Director has prepared and submitted to the Planning
Board a proposed amendment to Article 3, Section 3-1, of the Southport Unified
Development Ordinance; and
WHEREAS, the Planning Board has considered this matter and has recommended that
this proposed amendment to the Unified Development Ordinance be approved, and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the NC General Statutes and city ordinances, a public
hearing, properly noticed, was held on January 14, 2010, before the Board of
Aldermen regarding this issue; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen hereby finds that this proposed amendment to the
Unified Development Ordinance is consistent with the Southport CAMA Core Land
Use Plan; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that this amendment is reasonable
and in the public interest in that (i) in order to bring the Unified
Development Ordinance up-to-date after careful review, occasional adjustments
are necessary, including those associated with the City's Extraterritorial
Jurisdiction, (ii) this amendment is necessary to clarify when ETJ members can
vote on City of Southport issues in the City of Southport and its
extraterritorial jurisdiction, and (iii) it concurs with the rights, privileges
and duties allowed by NC General Statute § 160A 362.;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that the
attached amendment and addition to the Southport Unified Development Ordinance
is hereby approved and adopted.
This 11th day of February, 2010.
By:
/s/ Robert Howard, Mayor
Attest:
/s/Regina W. Alexander, Clerk
IX.
New Business
a)    Milligan House Movers
City Manager Thornton presented a request from Milligan House Movers to remove
a Blake Homebuilders structure from property adjacent to Highway 211 where a
new gas station will be constructed. Staff recommended approval. Alderman
Boguskie motioned for approval, seconded by Alderman Poole. Vote unanimous.
Motion passed 6-0
b)   Hurricane Disaster Debris Removal Interlocal Agreement
City Manager Thornton presented an interlocal agreement between the City and
County which provides for a joint effort for debris removal if a natural
disaster occurs. Alderman Karn motioned for approval, seconded by Alderman
Boguskie. Vote unanimous. Motion passed 6-0 (Agreement Incorporated as
Attachment #1)
c)   Discussion of Sign Ordinance
Alderman Poole motioned, seconded by Alderman Frink to hold a special meeting
to discuss the sign ordinance and allow public comments. Vote unanimous. Motion
passed 6-0 (Meeting scheduled March 2, 2010, 6:00 p.m.)
d)   Progress Energy Service Assistance Agreement
Mayor Howard discussed the Letter of Agreement with Progress Energy for fire
service which has been in place since July 1, 1987. Mayor Howard informed the
Board that Progress Energy pays the City $12,000 per year for fire service and
there has been no inflationary increase since entering the agreement in 1987.
He communicated that it is now costing the City more to operate the fire
department. He presented calculations based on the consumer price index (CPI)
which has increased and believes the City should be receiving more funds than
currently allocated. He asked that the Board allow him and the City Manager to
discuss these concerns with Progress Energy, and that the City Attorney be
authorized to review the agreement. City Manager Thornton stated the Rescue
Squad has a similar letter of agreement  and he asked that it also be
considered. Alderman Boguskie motioned, seconded by Alderman Frink to authorize
the Mayor and Manager to proceed as recommended. Vote Unanimous. Motion passed
6-0
e)   Demolition Ordinance
City Manager Thornton told the Board of a structure located at 419 North Lord
Street which is beyond repair and the City plans to demolish it. The homeowner
is aware that the structure is in violation of the City's minimum housing code
and the City's intent to tear it down.
Alderman Boguskie motioned to accept staff's recommendation and adopt an
ordinance allowing for the demolition of the structure located at 419 North
Lord Street owned by Ms. Dorothy Hewett. Motion seconded by Alderman Karn, vote
unanimous. Motion passed 6-0
AN ORDINANCE FINDING THAT A DWELLING LOCATED IN THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT VIOLATES
THE MINIMUM HOUSING CODE AND DIRECTING THAT SAID DWELLING BE DEMOLISHED
WHEREAS, the Southport Board of Aldermen finds that the building on property
described herein is classified as unfit for human habitation in accordance with
the minimum housing standards included in the City of Southport Minimum Housing
Code Ordinance; and
WHEREAS, all hearings and orders, notifications, and other actions prescribed
in said Minimum Housing Code Ordinance and in N.C.G.S 160A-443 have been
accomplished prior to adoption of this ordinance; and
WHEREAS, the owners of the dwelling located on the property described herein
have been given reasonable opportunity to bring the dwelling into conformity
with the Minimum Housing Code; and
WHEREAS, the dwelling located on property described herein cannot be repaired
at a reasonable cost relative to its value, and should therefore be demolished.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN OF THE CITY OF
SOUTHPORT, NORTH CAROLINA:
Section 1: That the Code Enforcement Officer of the City of Southport is hereby
authorized and directed to demolish the dwelling located in the City of
Southport at the following location:
Property Owner Name   Location of Property       Parcel Number
Mrs. Dorothy Hewett      419 North Lord Street      237LB028
Section 2: That this ordinance shall be recorded in the Office of the Register
of Deeds of Brunswick County. This ordinance shall become effective on February
11, 2010.
/s/Robert D. Howard, Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, City Clerk
f)   Cape Fear Arch
Ms. Jennifer Fuller, 811 North Caswell Avenue, member of Cape Fear Arch and
President of Coastal Water Watch stated her support of the City joining Cape
Fear Arch Conservation Collaboration. She explained that The Cape Fear Arch
provides a network of county, state, federal agencies, private businesses and
non-profit organizations where ideas and information is gained from
partnerships as the City progresses with planning and growth.
Alderman Karn explained that the organization is about sustainable resource
management use . He stated that the City will not be liable for anything the
group or members does. The document is a Memorandum of Understanding and does
not obligate the City to funding and it can be withdrawn anytime. The advantage
is developing good relationships with other levels of government and other
organizations. He attends the meetings and volunteered to report activities or
findings that will affect the City to the Board. Alderman Karn motioned,
seconded by Alderman Poole that the City become a member of Cape Fear Arch and
to sign the Memorandum of Understanding . Vote unanimous. Motion passed 6-0.
(Cape Fear Arch Conservation Collaboration Memorandum of Understanding
Incorporated as Attachment #2)
g)    Resolution in Support of Veterans Medical Center-Brunswick County
Alderman Boguskie motioned, seconded by Alderman Poole to adopt a resolution of
support to establish a Veterans' Medical Center in Brunswick County. Vote
unanimous. Motion passed 6-0
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-62.jpg]
 
RESOLUTION IN SUPPORT OF CONVERTING THE BRUNSWICK COMMUNITY HOSPITAL TO A
VETERAN'S AFFAIRS CLINIC AS A LONG TERM COST EFFECTIVE OPTION TO MEET THE
MEDICAL NEEDS OF AREA VETERANS
WHEREAS, Brunswick County is one of the fastest growing counties in America and
the veteran population has increased significantly over the last decade
reaching an estimated 12,656 today; and
WHEREAS, there is a significant need for an additional Veterans Affairs Clinic
or Medical Center in southeastern North Carolina to serve the medical needs of
over 77,000 veterans; and
WHEREAS, the Brunswick Community Hospital, currently operated by Novant will be
vacated in 2011 when the new Novant Hospital is opened for operation; and
WHEREAS, the Brunswick Community Hospital is a full-service facility that
includes approximately 111,096 square feet and 60 beds and is centrally located
in Brunswick County on US Highway 17 near the intersection of NC Highway 211
and is accessible to all areas of southeastern North Carolina and northeastern
South Carolina and is currently served by all of the necessary utilities and
infrastructure, and
WHEREAS, the County Commissioners are willing to negotiate a competitive lease
or sale arrangement for the property to be used for a Veterans Affairs medical
facility and the renovation costs associated with the facility would pale in
comparison to the proposed costs of leasing the site and constructing a new
facility in New Hanover County; and
WHEREAS, the 100,000 square foot facility proposed for the Wilmington super
clinic has an exorbitant project construction budget of $95 million and an
unfavorable recurring annual site lease of over $200,000 per year; and
WHEREAS, federal dollars should be spent as strategically as possible to
provide the best possible facilities and care to area veterans at the lowest
possible cost; and
WHEREAS, the preliminary project information provided does not appear to meet
the test of cost effective capital facilities planning and frugal utilization
of federal dollars and it appears that there is at least one viable lower cost
option in Brunswick County that has not been equitably evaluated.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the City of Southport Board of Aldermen do
hereby respectfully request that the United States Senate, House of
Representatives and the Veterans Affairs Officials evaluate the feasibility and
potential for converting the Brunswick Community Hospital in Supply, North
Carolina for use as a Veterans Affairs Outpatient Clinic as a more cost
effective capital and operating cost option to provide high quality medical
services to area veterans who deserve a convenient facility.
Adopted on this the 11th day of February, 2010.
/s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
/s/Regina W. Alexander, MMC, Clerk
h)   Planning Board
Alderman Poole recommended the Board schedule a special meeting to discuss the
sign ordinance and give the public the opportunity to have input.
i)    Southport Garden Club
Mayor Howard presented a request from the Southport Garden Club asking that a
display cabinet be placed in City Hall to exhibit their artifacts. Alderman
Karn motioned for approval seconded by Alderman Boguskie. Vote Unanimous.
Motion passed 6-0
j)   Arbor Day Resolution
Alderman Potter motioned, seconded by Alderman Frink to adopt an Arbor Day
Resolution. Vote unanimous. Motion passed 6-0
ARBOR DAY PROCLAMATION
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-46.jpg]
WHEREAS, in 1972, J. Sterling Morton proposed to the Nebraska Board of
Agriculture that a special day be set aside for the planting of trees, and
WHEREAS, this holiday called Arbor Day , was first observed with the planting
of more than a million trees in Nebraska, and
WHEREAS, Arbor Day is now observed throughout the nation and the world, and
WHEREAS, trees can reduce the erosion of our precious topsoil by wind and
water, cut heating and cooling costs, moderate the temperature, clean the air,
produce life-giving oxygen, and provide habitat for wildlife, and
WHEREAS, trees are a renewable resource giving us paper, wood for our homes,
fuel for our fires, and beautify our community, and
WHEREAS, trees in our city increase property values, enhance the economic
vitality of business areas, and beautify our community, and
WHEREAS, trees wherever they are planted are a source of joy and spiritual
renewal.
NOW, THEREFORE , I , Robert D. Howard, Mayor of the City of Southport, N.C. do
hereby proclaim March 19, 2010 as ARBOR DAY in the City and urge all citizens
to celebrate and support efforts to protect our trees and woodlands, and
FURTHER, I urge all citizens to plant trees to gladden the heart and promote
the well being of this and future generations.
DATED, this 11th day of March, 2010.
/s/ Robert D. Howard
 
k)   Fire Department Change Orders
City Manager Thornton stated change order #1 from Garner and Brown Architects
is the first for a project of this scope in which the budget includes a
contingency line item. The change order totals $9,565. He and the Mayor
explained why the changes were necessary. Alderman Potter motioned, seconded by
Alderman Frink to authorize the City Manager to execute the change order
including the transformer pad net contribution from Brunswick Electric and the
overhead wiring net contribution by Time Warner Cable. Vote of approval was
unanimous. Motion passed 6-0
l)   Meeting Location and Conference Speaker System
Mayor Howard asked that Alderman Karn report his findings to the Board whether
it would be feasible to relocate City Council meetings to the Community
Building in order to accommodate all citizens i.e. the disabled/handicap.
Alderman Karn reported that he looked into various configurations including
upgrading the system currently in the Community Building by adding microphones
but he does not recommend this. He looked at a portable system with flexibility
to add microphones, etc which could be used at other City functions. Estimated
cost $4,500. He recommended the portable system for Board consideration.
m)   Tax Release/Tax Lien Advertisement
Alderman Boguskie motioned, seconded by Alderman Karn to approve the tax
release upon recommendation of the tax collector for J.S. South, LLC in the
amount of $2,688.41 because it was billed as commercial rather than wasteland,
and to approve advertisement of delinquent taxes pursuant to G.S. 105-369A. The
vote of approval was unanimous. Motion passed 6-0
X.
Other Business
Handbook on Policy & Procedures for City Councils/Boards/Committees: Alderman
Poole referenced the Handbook that was written by the City Clerk on rules and
procedures for Boards, Committees and Commissions and asked if she could serve
as Board Liaison to work with the Clerk on this booklet and possibly present it
at the March meeting. The consensus of the Board was favorable.
XI.
City Manager Comments
Manager had no additional comments.
XII.
Board Comments
∙   Alderman Karn requested staff that is responsible for enforcement of the
City's Sign Ordinance be present for the Special Meeting.
∙   Alderman Poole commented on the tax collection rate which is higher than
Brunswick County's including high ABC profits.
∙   Alderman Boguskie commented on the number of applicants for the Planning
Board.
∙   Mayor Howard recognized Patrolman Melissa Hinnant for receiving her
intermediate level law enforcement certification.
∙   Board consensus to hold special meeting on the Sign Ordinance, Tuesday,
March 2, 2010 at 6:00 p.m.
∙   Change of Meeting Time:  Mayor Howard suggested the Board consider amending
the Ordinance to change the regular meeting time from 7:30 to 6:00 p.m.
Alderman Potter motioned, seconded by Alderman Frink to amend the City's
Ordinance to change the regular meeting time from 7:30 to 6:00 p.m. and to
authorize the City Attorney to draft the appropriate amendment. The vote of
approval was unanimous. Motion passed 6-0
XIII.
Adjournment
No further business, Alderman Frink moved to adjourn the meeting, seconded by
Alderman Boguskie, vote carried. Motion passed 6-0
_________________________________
Robert D. Howard, Mayor
________________________________
Regina W. Alexander, MMC
City Clerk
MARCH 2, 2010
SPECIAL MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
MARCH 2, 2010     7:30 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, NC
 
PRESENT:         Robert D. Howard, Mayor
            Aldermen Nelson Adams, Ed Boguskie, Donnie Potter, Kenneth Karn,
            Mary Ellen Poole and Jwantana Frink
ABSENT:         None
STAFF:         M. Alan Thornton, City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander, MMC, Clerk
OTHERS:          Amy Nelson, Director of Planning
            Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
            Jerry Dove, Chief of Police
A.
Call to Order - 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Howard called the special meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
1)    Welcome - Mayor Pro Tempore Poole
Mayor Pro Tempore Poole gave words of welcome.
2)    Invocation
Chief Jerry Dove pronounced the invocation.
3)    Local Elected Officials' Ethics Statement
Mayor Howard cited the following for the benefit of Board members.
"If any members know of any conflict of interest or the appearance of a
conflict of interest with respect to matters on the agenda, please so state at
this time."
4)   Adoption of Agenda
Alderman Boguskie motioned, seconded by Alderman Frink to approve the agenda,
vote carried. Motion passed 6-0
B.
Board of Aldermen Comments
Mayor Howard stated that the appearance of signs in the City is an unresolved
issue. The Aldermen, Planning Board and staff have reviewed the language in the
Sign Ordinance i.e. community surveys and public meetings in order to gauge
public input. He explained that it is necessary that the City regulates the
type, size, and location of signs to encourage their effective use as a means
of communication, to provide quality and equity among sign owners and for those
businesses that wish to use signs. He stated that the City wants to insure that
there is reasonable sign control, aesthetic enhancements and that the City's
Ordinance promotes signage that is orderly, appropriately sized, illuminated
and located. Good sign management improves the ability of the public to locate
businesses by reducing sign clutter, enhancing the aesthetics, and creating a
place where people want to spend time and money. He explained that the Board
must decide to direct staff to enforce the current ordinance or recommend
viable alternatives for consideration by staff, Planning Board and the Board of
Aldermen.
Alderman Poole stated that she was a member of the Planning Board when the sign
survey was conducted. Public comments were received and a work session held
with citizens and business owners regarding signage. She asked after citizen
input that the Board consider a solution for the aesthetics of the City, safety
issues regarding illegal signage, and the needs of the business community to
advertise their location and merchandise.
Alderman Boguskie stated the signs are a problem which affects the citizens,
visitors and businesses. The Board must support the Unified Development
Ordinance and be in compliance with ADA and NCDOT requirements. The City needs
to develop a workable plan and stay within those guidelines, and support the
businesses.
Alderman Karn told the Board that he contacted the Department of Transportation
and was told that enforcement along the state right of way is complaint driven.
However, if DOT sees a violation, the signs can be removed without notifying
the owner. He also spoke with Angela Massey at the Division 3 right of way
office and she explained how the width of rights of way is calculated. Utility
poles are the guidelines that they use and it is just inside their right of
way; therefore, anything that is in between the building and utility pole line
is considered not in the state right of way. He spoke with Robert Murphy at the
NC. Department of Commerce who works with the N.C. Main Street Program and a
former Planning employee with the City of Wilmington who wrote the regulations
in Wilmington for the use of "A" frame signs which gives specific regulations
and recommend that all signs be permitted. He stated the City is not attacking
merchants, but trying to address the aesthetics of the City while supporting
the businesses.
C.
Comments by City Manager
City Manager Thornton reiterated the importance of the business community to
the City and working with the merchants. He stated that there are liability
issues concerning signs on public rights of way which are illegal and the City
cannot ignore these because of safety factors.
D.
Power Point Presentation on Signs - Amy Nelson, Director of Planning
Ms. Amy Nelson, City Planner presented a power point presentation showing the
various signs in the City and the obstruction of public rights of way which is
illegal in accordance with City Code Section 16-8. She also noted that under
Section 17-2, General Provisions, and (B) Permit Requirements where sign
permits are required and failure to apply for one is in violation of City Code.
Ms. Nelson showed signs of various cities and noted that staff is currently
working on an update to the sign ordinance with input from the public while
attempting to retain the visual beauty of Southport. She also noted that the
City is seeking to purchase and install way finding signs.
E.
Public Comments
The following persons addressed the Board on the sign issue:
Mr. Frank Vacirca, 3898 Timber Stream Drive (Harbor Oak), asked that the best
interest of the community be served including support of businesses.
Rita Sanders, Live Oak Nutrition, spoke in support of having a sign on Howe
Street for visibility because their business is not on the main street and the
sign directs citizens to their place of business.
Emily Humphreys, Port City Java, Howe Street stated the trees cover most of her
signage and the sign in front of her store directs customers to her business.
She asked that the ordinance revision allow "A" frame signs.
Carol Baker, Waterfront Gifts, 117 S. Howe Street stated the ordinance on the
books has not been enforced. The signs and clutter on state and city rights of
way prohibits the flow of pedestrian traffic and poses a danger. The City
should enforce the current ordinance and make amendments if necessary.
Judi Zorich, Cape Fear Jewelers, 102 E. Moore Street, stated she has witnessed
worse problems than signs. The drive ups to the ATM machine across the street
from their place of business blocks access for citizens in wheel chairs which
should be addressed.
Kathy Rebeck, 1306 N. Atlantic (Acupuncturist) stated that there are no street
signs at 13th Street and she is unable to give people directions to her office.
Since Southport is a town with small businesses, signs are an inexpensive way
to let people know that they are in business. She agreed that the signs should
look nice and be in a safe location. She asked the Board to consider the small
businesses and allow them to attract customers by use of these signs
D. Crews owner of a former business stated that some of the businesses depend
on signs to advertise and asked that enforcement of the sign ordinance be
placed on hold for at least 30 -60 days to gauge where merchants are
economically because many small businesses are closing their doors.
Katie Stewart, 821 Memory Lane, owner and operator of Old South Tour Company
stated businesses depend on tourism and she uses an "A" frame sign. She only
places her sign out when she is working and removes it once her day is
completed. She asked the Board to keep businesses in mind when making its
decision.
Pamela Sexton, 122 Howe Street, owner of Cattail Cottage, stated that it is her
belief that sandwich board/ A frame signs add charm to the City and she has
never received a complaint from her customers. She has an "A" frame sign in
front of her business because the large trees block visibility. She stated
trees, trashcans, utility poles; etc should be taken care of before signs are
addressed. She asked that business owners be included in the dialogue with the
City before erecting way finding signs.
Penny Watkins, 715 N. Howe Street, owner of Boo & Roo's Gift Store (Town Gate)
stated that she purchased a custom made "A" frame sign to draw customers to her
store. The sign is effective because it brings in customers and is taken down
at night. The sign is placed in a grassy area and does not pose a hazard or
obstruct public safety. The guidelines should be written to pertain to each
block or section of the City on an individual basis, because no two areas in
the City are the same. Disposing of the signs will be devastating to the
businesses, and urged the Board not to take this action.
Michelle Archangelo, of Elkton Md. and a visitor to the area stated she would
not know that many of the businesses exist without the signs.
Rebecca Funderburk, 416 N. Howe, owner of Rebecca Fabrications and a Massage
Practice at 1306 N. Atlantic spoke in support of the signs because of their
uniqueness and the character they bring to the City. She stated with the
economic climate, that this is the wrong time to tax businesses about signs.
Nancy Clookie, 3488 Members Club, states Southport is a wonderful place to live
and urged the Board to carefully weigh their decisions because whatever actions
taken will affect the businesses when they are trying to survive.
Brian Kimball, Loco Jo's Bar & Grill on Howe Street.  Stated signs are vital to
his business survival. The sign ordinance has been on the books for years and
it is his belief that this is the wrong time to enforce it because businesses
need all the help that they can get to survive.
Richard Bandera, 309 Clarendon Avenue, business owner, and a member of the
Planning Board. Mr. Bandera, representing the Planning Board explained that the
Planning Board has been working to understand sign limitations under the UDO,
how to address violations that exist with signs in the rights of way i.e.
differences on the state right of way, safety and visual issues for the
business district. The Planning Board is seeking ways to separate this from
City managed streets to determine if anything can be done for the businesses.
He stated it is difficult for the Board to advise the Aldermen when they do not
know how the right of way on a state road is defined i.e. beginning and end.
They want to treat the businesses fair and having this information would help.
The Planning Board recommends that the UDO be revisited on City managed streets
to allow signage types supported by the merchant survey. The survey showed that
68% of the participating merchants believed that the "A" frame signs are good
for the business district. Ms. Nelson, City Planner is researching various
municipalities that allow "A" frame signs on public sidewalks under a special
permitting process.
The Planning Board hopes that this could apply to Southport which would be a
win situation by managing safety accessibility, visual concerns and promote
area businesses. The Planning Board recommends consideration of way finding
signs which are allowed to be constructed in the state right of way. The
Planning Board further supports way finding signs because they will address
some concerns and direct visitors to some of the underserved business
districts, historic sites and recreational opportunities in the City. However,
the signs do not allow business advertisement but point visitors and citizens
in the right direction. Mr. Bandera noted that Downtown Southport, Inc. has
been active in pursuing matching grants through the Main Street Program and he
asked if they are available that they be made public.
Mayor Howard thanked the public for their input and stated the City is working
in the best interest of Southport and the businesses. He encouraged all to work
together and provide input.
Alderman Boguskie noted that the UDO can be changed, however if signs were not
permitted, they are illegal and ADA rules must be adhered to by the City.
Alderman Adams stated his support of the merchants and recommended a Task Force
be established with merchants, Planning Board member(s) and staff to make
revisions to the sign ordinance.
Alderman Karn presented a section of the Carolina Beach Ordinance addressing
signs i.e. indemnification, size, etc. He stated the City needs to be protected
and agreed to the establishment of a Task Force.
Alderman Frink stated the City needs neat, safe and attractive signs. She also
agreed to the establishment of a Task Force.
Alderman Potter stated the City does not want to penalize businesses but needs
to secure liability for the City. The Board understands and supports the
businesses.
Alderman Poole agreed with establishing a Task Force.
Alderman Adams motioned to establish a Task Force comprised of staff, Planning
Board member(s) and merchant representative(s) and to table action on the
removal of signs until April, seconded by Alderman Poole. Discussion: Alderman
Potter expressed concern about liability to the City and asked the City Manager
to consult with the Attorney on this issue. Mayor Howard stated this effort can
work only if everyone involved works together and participate in the process.
Mayor Howard stated that he will meet with the City Manager, staff and Planning
Board to develop a Task Force and he requested three (3) names be provided to
him by the merchants to representative them on the Task Force. Notification
will also be given of the meetings. Alderman Adams stated that the liability
issue had been discussed and the City is reaching out to the merchants; if some
of them are not willing to cooperate, the City will need to give a directive
that all liability signs be removed. Mayor reiterated that all signs be taken
in at night. No further discussion, the vote was unanimous. Passed 6-0
F.
Adjournment - 7:38 p.m.
No further business, motion by Alderman Boguskie, seconded by Alderman Frink to
Adjourn. Vote unanimous. Passed 6-0
____________________________
Robert Howard, Mayor
____________________________
Regina W. Alexander, Clerk
MARCH 11, 2010
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
MARCH 11, 2010    7:30 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, NC
 
PRESENT:         Robert D. Howard, Mayor
            Aldermen Nelson Adams, Mary Ellen Poole, Ken Karn,
            Donnie Potter, Ed Boguskie and Jwantana Frink
ABSENT:         None
STAFF:         M. Alan Thornton, City Manager
            Michael Isenberg, City Attorney
            Regina W. Alexander, MMC, City Clerk
OTHERS:         Patty Miller, Finance Officer
            Amy Nelson, Planning Director
            Ralph Cardwell, Director of Public Services
            Heather Hemphill, Director of Parks & Recreation
            Randy Jones, Director of Tourism
            Jerry Dove, Chief of Police
I.
Call to Order - 7:30 p.m.
Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 7:33 p.m.
II.
Invocation
Mayor Pro Tem Poole extended words of welcome and introduced Dr. Gary
Albertson, Associate Pastor of Trinity United Methodist Church who delivered
the invocation.
III.
Approval of Minutes
Ethics Statement: Mayor Howard stated "If any members know of any conflict of
interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect to matters on
the agenda, please state it at this time."
January 16, 2010 Retreat Minutes:  Alderman Poole motioned for approval,
seconded by Alderman Potter. Vote unanimous. Passed 6-0
February 11, 2010 Regular Meeting Minutes:  Alderman Karn motioned for
approval, seconded by Alderman Boguskie. Vote unanimous. Passed 6-0
IV.
Approval of Agenda
Alderman Boguskie motioned, seconded by Alderman Karn to approve the agenda
with the following amendments. Vote unanimous. Passed 6-0
k)   Resolution to endorse the City of Southport's Application for the 2010
Urban and Community Forestry Grant Program
l)    Forestry Committee Appointments - Mayor
m)   Update on Progress Energy Southport Fire Department Agreement
n)   Planning Board
o)   Board of Adjustment Appointments
p)   City of Southport Handbook for Boards, Committees and Commissions
q)   Performance Evaluations for City Manager and Clerk
r)   Financial Request from the Forestry Committee
V.
Public Comments
There were no public comments.
VI.
Committee Reports
Fort Johnston - Alderman Frink announced that the Committee will meet March 23,
2010, 6:30 p.m. at the Garrison House. The Clerk was asked to post notice of
the meeting. Alderman Karn asked for new ideas for utilization of the Garrison
House. Committee members:  Aldermen Frink and Karn, Ralph Parker, Lee Aldridge,
Heather Hemphill, staff liaison.
Signage Task Force - Mayor Howard stated that a recommendation on signs will be
made in April. Committee members: Carol Baker, Waterfront Gifts, Rita Sanders,
Live Oak Nutrition, Penny Watkins, Boo & Roos, Planning Board representatives
are Richard Bandera and Todd Coring, Amy Nelson, staff liaison. Aldermen Poole
and Karn, Co-Chairs. Alderman Karn announced that the Committee will meet
Monday March 22, and Thursday March 25, 6:00 p.m. at City Hall.
Alderman Karn motioned, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to authorize the City
Manager to direct the appropriate staff to remove signs from public rights of
way that endangers the public's safety and to remove any signs that are left
out over night. Discussion: Alderman Frink asked if the merchants would be
contacted prior to removing their signs. Mayor Howard stated that the City
Manager would take care of this matter. Motion passed unanimously. Passed 6-0
Planning Board Staff Relations: Alderman Poole announced that a Committee
meeting has been scheduled March 24, 2010 from 2:00 - 4:00 at City Hall.
North Carolina State Ports Authority:  Alderman Boguskie reported that Mayor
Howard, City Manager Thornton, Alderman Adams and he met with Mr. Tom Eager,
CEO of the N. C. State Port in Wilmington. They toured the Port and were shown
a slide presentation. Mr. Eager briefed them on the 905B Corp of Engineers
Study. They also discussed having a representative from this area on the State
Port's Authority Board. Alderman Adams stated as information is disseminated to
Mr. Eagar about the proposed Port, it was requested that the City be informed.
VII.
Departmental Reports
Police Department - City Manager Thornton informed the Board that according to
the crime rate statistics, there has been a 33% decrease in Southport's crime
rate. Chief Dove and his department were commended.
Fire Department - Mr. Thornton reported that the Fire Department ISO rating
review was held March 10 and Chief Cumbee reported that the inspection went
well.
Rescue Squad- Thanks were extended to Chief Neil Sage and Rescue Squad members
for the covered dish meal provided to Board members and staff.
VIII.
New Business
a)    Resolution Requesting the Reinstatement of TIP Project
Alderman Poole motioned to adopt the resolution requesting the reinstatement of
the TIP Project #R3324 for the Long Beach Road Connector Project , seconded by
Alderman Frink. The vote carried. Motion passed 6-0.
b)    Ordinance Establishing the time and place of the regular meeting of the
Board of Aldermen, Section 2-48 Regular Meeting
Alderman Potter motioned, seconded by Alderman Poole to adopt the amendment to
Section 2-48 of the Code establishing the time and place of the regular meeting
of the Board of Aldermen. (April meeting will begin at 6:00 p.m.)
AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING THE TIME AND PLACE OF THE REGULAR MEETING OF THE
BOARD OF ALDERMEN
BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport that section
2-48 of the Code of Ordinances is hereby amended to read as follows:
Sec. 2-48. Regular Meetings.
There shall be a regular meeting of the board of aldermen at the meeting room
of city hall, or at such other place as may be designated, on the second
Thursday of each month at 6:00 p. m. unless otherwise specified, in which case
notice shall be given in accordance with applicable law.
Adopted this 11th day of March, 2010.
City of Southport
/s/ Robert D. Howard
Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
City Clerk
c)    Mutual Aid Agreement - Sunny Point Fire & Emergency Services
Alderman Karn motioned, seconded by Alderman Potter to approve the updated
Mutual Aid Agreement between the City of Southport and Sunny Point Fire &
Emergency Services with corrections noted by the Manager and City Attorney. The
vote was unanimous. Passed 6-0 (Copy of Agreement Incorporated - Attachment #1)
d)    Clean Water Management Trust Fund Grant Agreement - Amendment #2
Alderman Boguskie motioned, seconded by Alderman Karn to authorize the City to
sign Amendment # 2 to the Clean Water Management Trust Fund grant agreement in
which the City will repay grant 2005B-513 interest free in three equal annual
installments with the first payment due on July 1, 2010, the second July 1,
2011 and the third payment on July 1, 2012. The vote of approval was unanimous.
Motion passed 6-0
Mayor Howard stated that he and the City Manager will look for ways to dispose
of the property. Alderman Adams stated that the City should not act hastily to
dispose of the property because it adjoins 600 acres that belong to the State
and he pointed out the potential for future development.
e)   Amendment Chapter 16, Section 16-4, House Moving
Alderman Potter motioned, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to adopt the amendment
to Chapter 16, Section 16-4 of the House Moving Code. The vote of approval was
unanimous. Motion passed 6-0
AMENDMENT TO CITY OF SOUTHPORT CODE OF ORDINANCES
TEXT AMENDMENT # 10-0208-01
An Ordinance Amending the City of Southport Code of Ordinances
BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport that Chapter
16, STREETS AND SIDEWALKS, Article I. IN GENERAL, Section 16-4 "House moving"
is hereby amended by replacing the original section with the following:
(a)   APPROVAL AND BOND REQUIRED.
No person shall move any house, building or other structure along, upon or
across the public streets or sidewalks without a written permit issued by the
Building Inspector, and a deposit to cover damage done to any street or
sidewalk or to any property of any person or the City. This deposit shall be in
the sum of $5,000 and shall be delivered to the City at least one City business
day prior to moving any structure within the City limits or its
extraterritorial jurisdiction. Such deposit may be cash, certified or cashier's
check, or a bond issued by a surety licensed to do business in North Carolina.
This deposit may be used by the City to pay for any damage done to any street
or sidewalk or to any property of any person or the City resulting from the
moving of any house, building or other structure. After completion of the move,
the Building Inspector and Public Services Director shall make an inspection to
determine if any damage occurred as a result of said move, and any portion of
said deposit not required in order to pay for damages shall be returned to the
applicant.
(b)   LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
No person may move a house, building or other structure along, upon or across
the streets, sidewalks or other public ways of the City without first being
licensed as a house mover by the North Carolina Department of Transportation or
its successor agency as provided in G.S. Ch. 20, Art. 16 as it presently exists
or shall be hereafter amended. Provided, however, that such license shall not
be required for individuals moving their own buildings from or to property
owned individually by those persons. This section shall not relieve an
individual of the requirement of posting a deposit, or obtaining a permit as
hereinafter provided, nor shall it relieve an individual of the requirement
that the applicant prove their financial responsibility as hereinafter
provided.
(c)   PERMIT REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES.
No person may move a house, building or other structure along, upon or across
the streets, sidewalks or other public ways of the City without first obtaining
a permit from the City Building Inspector. Any person wishing to obtain a
permit shall apply to the Building Inspector on a form approved by the City for
a permit at least two weeks prior to the date that the person wishes to move
the structure. The Building Inspector may reduce the two week period for good
cause shown. The application shall be completed in its entirety and shall be
accompanied by an application fee to be set by the Board of Aldermen and also
by the following: (i) a travel plan. The travel plan shall show the proposed
route, the time estimated for each segment of the move and a plan to handle
traffic so that no one delay to other roadway users shall exceed 20 minutes. In
addition, the travel plan will show all intersections, traffic lights and other
locations where a bottleneck of traffic could potentially be created; (ii)
proof that the applicant has made satisfactory arrangements with any person or
other entity whose power, telephone, cable television or other lines will be
affected by the move; (iii) a list and description of all utilities, trees and
other equipment, poles, structures and appurtenances which will need to be
altered or moved along the route of the travel plan; (iv) a list of all
services required from the City with regard to police personnel, personnel of
the Public Services Department, and other personnel of the City, including but
not limited to the number of personnel needed, manpower hours estimated to be
used, and such other information as may be required by the City in order to
estimate the cost of the move to the City.
(d)   PROOF OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
In addition to the other requirements set forth in subsection (c) above, the
applicant must file documentation of their financial responsibility. All
applicants shall possess motor vehicle insurance for bodily injury to or death
of one or more persons in any accident, and for injury to or destruction of
property of others in any one accident with a minimum coverage of $350,000
combined single limit of liability. Additionally, the applicant shall have in
effect comprehensive general liability insurance with a minimum coverage of
$350,000 combined single limit of liability, including coverage of operations
on state streets and highways that are not covered by motor vehicle insurance,
and Workers' Compensation insurance complying with the requirements of G.S.
Chapter 97. Proof of all insurance coverage effective through the date of the
proposed move issued by the insurance carrier(s), equivalent to that required
for licensed house movers by G.S. § 20-359.1 as it presently exists or may be
hereafter re-codified, shall be considered satisfactory proof of financial
responsibility and the fact that an applicant is licensed as a house mover by
the department of transportation shall be sufficient to prove his compliance
with this section. In the case of an individual moving their own structure to
or from their own property and not required to be licensed as a house mover,
the applicant must provide documentation satisfactory to the Building Inspector
that the applicant has appropriate and adequate insurance coverage and a copy
of this documentation shall be kept on file in the Building Inspector's office
until the move is completed. The adequacy of the insurance coverage shall be
determined in the reasonable discretion of the issuing officer or City Manager
based upon all circumstances disclosed in the application and supporting
documentation.
(e)   ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
The applicant shall review their travel plan with the Building Inspector and
the Chief of the Police Department or his designee and if the route cannot
accommodate the move due to roadway weight limits, or will cause undue
interruption of traffic flow or will otherwise create an unduly hazardous
condition, the permit shall not be issued. Approved travel plans are required
before obtaining a permit. Permits will not be issued for holidays, weekends or
evening hours unless there are extenuating circumstances approved by the
Building Inspector, Police Chief and Public Services Director. The Building
Inspector shall review the application with the Director of the Public Services
Department to determine that the applicant has made satisfactory arrangements
for the disconnection of all public utilities under the control of the City and
that the disconnections can be accomplished in an appropriate manner. Nothing
contained herein shall be interpreted to require the Building Inspector to
issue a permit if, in his judgment, the proposed move cannot be made safely, or
if, in his judgment, the applicant has not made appropriate arrangements with
power, telephone, cable television or other utility suppliers, or if, in his
judgment, the applicant has not made appropriate arrangements with the City for
the disconnection of public utilities under the control of the City.
(f)   CONDITIONS FOR VOIDING PERMIT.
The permit may be revoked by the Building Inspector or any police officer of
the City if any conditions of the permit are violated. Upon any violation, the
permit must be surrendered upon demand of the Building Inspector or a police
officer and a new permit obtained before proceeding. Misrepresentation of
information on application to obtain a permit, fraudulently obtaining a permit,
alteration of a permit or unauthorized use of a permit will render the permit
void.
(g)   APPEAL.
An applicant shall have the right to appeal the denial of his application to
the City Manager within ten days of the mailing of notification of the denial
of the permit to the address given in the application. Any such denial shall be
without prejudice to the applicant's rights to submit another application with
alternate plans until an acceptable route is determined, if such an acceptable
route exists. In addition, the applicant may appeal the revocation of the
permit to the City Manager within ten days of notification of revocation.
(h)   LIABILITY OF MOVER.
The permittee shall be responsible for injury to persons or damage to property
of any kind resulting from his acts or omissions and by accepting the permit
agrees to indemnify and hold the City harmless for any claims arising out of
his conduct, actions or omissions.
(i)   REMOVAL AND REPLACEMENT OF OBSTRUCTIONS.
All obstructions or impediments, including traffic signals, signs, poles and
utility lines, will be removed immediately prior to and replaced immediately
after the move at the expense of the mover, subject to the approval and
satisfaction of the City, provided that arrangements for and approval from the
owner of such signals, signs and lines is obtained by the applicant.
This ordinance shall be effective upon the date of adoption, this 11th day of
March, 2010.
City of Southport
By:
/s/ Robert D. Howard
Mayor
ATTEST:
Regina W. Alexander, MMC
City Clerk
f)   Municipal Facilities Use Policy
City Manager Thornton informed the Board that request(s) have been made for use
of the Alderman Chambers. The City does not have a policy for use of the
Chambers as it does for rental of other City facilities. Persons are requesting
to use the chambers after hours and on weekends when there is no staff
available and there are liability concerns.
Alderman Adams suggested staff prepare a policy that includes fees and a
liability clause and bring back to the Board. Alderman Karn expressed concern
about staff not being on site; in answer to a question, Chief Dove stated the
police department is open until 12:00 midnight.
Mayor Howard asked the City Manager to bring a recommendation to the Board.
g)    Fleet Fueling System
City Manager Thornton explained that the City has an underground fuel storage
tank and the state will monitor these more closely and eventually require a
licensed operator. As a result of changes, staff is recommending a fleet
fueling card system.
Mr. Cardwell, Public Services Director stated during the inspection in
December, the State Inspector requested the fuel tanks be dugged downward to
the hose connection to verify that the City has a European style suction
system. The cost to remove the concrete and tank is $4200. If the City does not
pass inspection, an employee will have to attend and pass a class in Raleigh to
become a designated operator of the City tanks. He will then have to train a
Class C Operator who will need to be present anytime a vehicle is filled. The
fuel pumps will have to be shut off when the garage closes unless a scada
control system is installed which will notify an employee at home when a
vehicle is being filled.
Alderman Potter motioned to authorize the City Manager to proceed with the
fleet fueling card system, seconded by Alderman Poole. Vote unanimous. Passed
6-0
h)    N.C. Downtown Development Association Façade Grant Pilot Program
City Manager Thornton, Amy Nelson, Planner and Peggy McDonald, Director of DSI
presented a resolution asking the Board to endorse an application for the 2010
NC Downtown Development Association Façade Grant Pilot Program. The City will
work with downtown businesses to establish approved facades for the front of
their businesses. The AMUZU theatre was selected because of its historical
significance and it is still in use today. Adoption of the resolution allows
staff to submit the grant application. Alderman Boguskie motioned, seconded by
Alderman Potter to approve the resolution. Vote unanimous. Passed 6-0
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-62.jpg]
 
RESOLUTION TO ENDORSE THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT'S APPLICATION FOR THE 2010 NORTH
CAROLINA DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION FAÇADE GRANT - PILOT PROGRAM
THAT WHEREAS on March 30, 2010, the NCDDA will conclude the 2010 Call for
Proposals to promote the improvement of downtown storefronts across the state;
and
WHEREAS the City of Southport has not had a façade grant program within the
last 10 years; and
WHEREAS the City of Southport has an opportunity to apply for this 70%-30%
matching grant program in 2010; and
WHEREAS the NCDDA will provide the necessary guidance to establish the program
and will provide conceptual design assistance for up to three buildings;
NOW, BE IT THEREFORE RESOLVED that the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport, North Carolina in session assembled this 11th day of March 2010
endorse the 2010 North Carolina Downtown Development Association's Façade Grant
Pilot Program application for the City of Southport, North Carolina.
Adopted this 11th day of March 2010.
/s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, Clerk
i)   2009-2010 Budget Amendments
Alderman Potter motioned, seconded by Alderman Poole to approve budget
amendments. Vote unanimous. Passed 6-0
Budget Amendment
Fiscal Year 2009-2010
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session March 11, 2010, that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted to adjust departmental line items within departments that
were over or under budget and from funding of revenue increase in Rescue
Collections & Recreation Revenue.
General Fund
                                        Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section I
A.   Revenues Anticipated
      Rescue Collections          10,000           166,980
      Recreation Revenue
         (Senior Citizen Trip) 8,000            777,580
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
      Rescue
         Collection Fees       4,000
         Dept. Supplies        2,500
         R/M Equipment         3,500
      Parks & Recreation
         Senior Citizens Expens8,000
   See Attached for other Department
Adjustments
 
ADOPTED this the 11th day of March, 2010
/s/Mayor Robert Howard
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, Clerk 
Budget Amendment
Fiscal Year 2009-2010
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session March 11, 2010, that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for funding of professional fees expense from water/sewer
sales revenues.
 
Water Sewer Fund
                               Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section V
A.   Revenues Anticipated
      Water/Sewer Sales  40,000           2,032,750
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
      Professional Fees  40,000           2,032,750
 
ADOPTED this the 11th day of March, 2010
/s/ Mayor Robert D. Howard 
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, Clerk
Budget Amendment
Fiscal Year 2009-2010
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session March 11, 2010, that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for funding for electrical construction cost for the
Southport Fire Station as approved in regular scheduled meeting in February 11,
2010. There is no change in the total capital budget
 
Capital Project Fund:Southport Fire Station
                                            Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
A.   Appropriated Expenditures
      Construction                    20,386
      Contingency                     (-)20,386
 
ADOPTED this the 11th day of March, 2010
/s/Mayor Robert D. Howard 
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, Clerk
j)   Tax Release
Alderman Potter motioned, seconded by Alderman Karn to approve tax releases for
Judy McClain, tax parcel number 237LB02303 for tax years 2008, 2009 in the
amount of $237.60. Vote unanimous. Passed 6-0
k)    Resolution to Endorse Application for 2010 Urban and Community Forestry
Grant
City Manager Thornton and Amy Nelson, City Planner presented a resolution for
consideration by the Board to allow staff to submit a 50/50 matching grant
through the N. C. Division of Forest Resources and the USDA Forest Service
Southern Region which will assist the City in the comprehensive management of
its trees. Alderman Karn motioned to adopt the resolution authorizing staff to
submit the grant application, seconded by Alderman Poole. Vote unanimous.
Passed 6-0
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-62.jpg]
 
RESOLUTION TO ENDORSE THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT'S APPLICATION FOR THE 2010 URBAN
AND COMMUNITY FORESTRY GRANT PROGRAM
THAT WHEREAS on March 31, 2010, the NC Division of Forest Resources and the
USDA Forest Service, Southern Region will conclude the 2010 Request for
Proposals to assist in the comprehensive management of trees, forests and
related natural resources in populated areas for the physiological,
sociological, economic, and aesthetic benefits trees provide to society; and
WHEREAS the City of Southport has Tree City USA status; and
WHEREAS the City of Southport has an opportunity to apply for this 50%-50%
matching grant program in 2010; and
WHEREAS the grant available through the NC Division of Forest Resources and the
USDA Forest Service, Southern Region will provide the basis for preserving and
protecting the trees of Southport that help give the City its special
character;
NOW, BE IT THEREFORE RESOLVED that the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport, North Carolina in session assembled this 11th day of March 2010
endorse the 2010 Urban and Community Forestry Grant Program application for the
City of Southport, North Carolina.
Adopted this 11th day of March 2010.
/s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, Clerk 
l)   Forestry Committee Appointments
Mayor Howard stated that all terms had expired and asked Aldermen Boguskie and
Potter to serve on a Committee to present recommendations for appointments to
the Forestry Committee.
m)   City of Southport and Progress Energy Agreement for Fire & Emergency
Services
Mayor reported that the agreement had been finalized with recommended changes.
(Agreement Incorporated as Attachment - # 2)
n)   Planning Board Committee
Alderman Poole, Chair of the Planning Committee consisting of Tish Hatem,
Planning Board Chair and Alderman Karn recommended the following persons be
appointed to the Planning Board.
∙   3 year term expiring March 2013 - Mr. Fred Guerrina
∙   Remainder of 3 year term expiring March 2011 - Mr. Dale McPherson
Alderman Poole motioned to accept the recommendation, seconded by Alderman
Karn. Vote unanimous. Passed 6-0
o)   Board of Adjustment
Alderman Poole, Chair, members Tish Hatem, Planning Board Chair and Alderman
Karn recommended the following citizen be appointed to the Board of Adjustment:
∙   Mr. Harley Lemons (City Alternate) to complete the remainder of a one year
term expiring June 2011.
Alderman Poole motioned, seconded by Alderman Karn to accept the
recommendation. Vote unanimous. Passed 6-0
p)   Handbook for Boards, Committees and Commissions
Alderman Poole motioned to approve the handbook prepared by the Clerk on
procedures for Boards, Committees and Commissions, seconded by Alderman Karn.
Vote unanimous. Passed 6-0 (Copy of Handbook will be incorporated as Attachment
#3)
q)    Evaluation - Manager/Clerk
Mayor Howard requested the Board authorize him and Mayor Pro Tem Poole to
access the City Manager and Clerk's personnel files to prepare for an executive
session to be held during April Board meeting. Alderman Potter motioned to
approve the request, seconded by Alderman Adams. Vote unanimous. Passed 6-0
r)   Forestry Committee - Financial Request
Alderman Karn stated the Forestry Committee communicated that the oak tree near
the post office and the one at Bay and Atlantic are vulnerable to infestation.
The Forestry Committee has used Connolly Tree Preservation and requested to do
so again, but they do not have the funds. The cost of the treatment is $4,200.
Alderman Karn asked that a second opinion be solicited from Brunswick Community
College or the N. C. State Agriculture Extension program in Bolivia as soon as
possible, and if their assessment agrees with Connolly Tree Preservation, he
would ask the Board to reconvene and authorize the expenditure. Alderman Karn
motioned to authorize the City Manager to coordinate an effort to acquire a
second opinion and to solicit competitive pricing, seconded by Alderman
Boguskie. Vote unanimous. Passed 6-0    
IX.
Other Business
None
X.
City Manager Comments
∙   Capital projects i.e. Lowe-White Park, Fire Station and Sewer Reversal are
on schedule and budget.
∙   NCLM hosting a regional legislative update in Whiteville on April 15
∙   Spring Festival March 19 & 20
∙   Arbor Day Celebration at Southport Elementary School March 19, 2:00 p.m.
XI.
Board Comments
Mayor Howard and Amy Nelson encouraged citizens to fill out their census forms
which will help determine the amount of federal dollars allocated to the City
for various projects.
Planning Board:  Alderman Karn read from Article II, Section 13-26 City Code
referencing Planning Board members; "faithful attendance at the meetings of the
Board is considered a pre-requisite for the maintenance of membership on the
Board. A vacancy shall exist on the Board if a member is absent from twenty-
five (25) percent or more of the Board's meetings within a twelve (12) month
period of time and said vacancy may be declared and filled by the Board of
Aldermen." He stated that a member of the Planning Board had exceeded this and
he spoke with the board member who was not receptive to conversation. The board
member told him that his absences were due to family matters; however, the
Planning Board Chair, current and past told him that they were not notified
that he would be unable to attend the meetings. Alderman Karn motioned to
remove Jim Powell from the Planning Board due to excessive absences. Mayor
Howard ruled the motion out of order and recommended it to the Planning
Committee for consideration.
Fire Department: Alderman Karn stated that he has received comments from
citizens about the fire station and its size. He has concerns about the
utilities and asked the City Manager to evaluate whether the building can
accommodate another department, ex: rescue or police since the entire building
will not be occupied by the fire department.
Alderman Poole told the Board about a 3/50 project that is geared to help local
businesses and put money in the economy by selecting three businesses and
spending $50 within a month at each location.
Alderman Boguskie made referenced to a state statute where fire fees are used
for fire and rescue services according to Randy Thompson, retired Director of
Emergency Services.
Mayor Howard stated the fire department is designed for a single use purpose
and is being funded by a district fire fee and utilities will be paid from the
district fire fee in answer to a question from Alderman Frink.
XII.
Adjournment - 9:12 p.m.
No further business, Alderman Frink motioned to adjourn the meeting, seconded
by Alderman Boguskie, vote unanimous. Passed 6-0
__________________________________
Mayor
_________________________________
Clerk
APRIL 8, 2010
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
APRIL 8, 2010     6:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, N C
 
PRESENT:         Robert Howard, Mayor (Present at 6:25 p.m.)
            Mary Ellen Poole, Mayor Pro Tem
            Aldermen Ed Boguskie, Donnie Potter, Kenneth Karn, Jwantana Frink
            and Nelson Adams
ABSENT:         None
STAFF:         M. Alan Thornton, City Manager
            Michael Isenberg, City Attorney
            Regina W. Alexander, MMC, City Clerk
            Patty Miller, Director of Finance
            Amy Nelson, Director of Planning
            Ralph Cardwell, Director of Public Services
            Heather Hemphill, Director of Parks and Recreation
            Randy Jones, Director of Tourism
            Charles Drew, Code Enforcement Officer
            Jerry V. Dove, Chief of Police
I.
Call to Order - 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Pro Tempore' Poole called the meeting to order at 6:03 p.m. and called on
Alderman Adams to give words of welcome.
II.
Invocation
Chief Jerry Dove delivered the invocation.
III.
Approval of Minutes
a)    March 2, 2010 Special Meeting:  Alderman Boguskie motioned to approve the
special meeting minutes, seconded by Alderman Karn, vote unanimous. Passed 6-0
b)   March 11, 2010 Regular Meeting: Alderman Karn motioned to approve the
minutes, seconded by Alderman Boguskie, vote unanimous. Passed 6-0
IV.
Approval of Agenda
a)    Local Elected Officials Ethics Statement
Mayor Pro Tem Poole asked "if any members know of any conflict of interest or
the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect to matters on the agenda,
please state it at this time."
Alderman Adams motioned to approve the agenda to include amendments IX. f)
Spring clean-up, g) Tourism Department, h) Rotary Club, seconded by Alderman
Karn, the vote was unanimous. Passed 6-0
V.
Public Comments
There were no public comments.
VI.
Committee Reports
Transportation/Traffic Committee:  Alderman Boguskie stated that the Committee
met on March 17 and discussed the need to resurface several streets beginning
with Park Avenue from Holly to Yaupon. The estimated cost of resurfacing and
striping is $64,000 and $74,000 is budgeted. This will provide extra parking at
the end of Moore Street between Caswell and Bay, and allow parking down Caswell
towards Bay.
Alderman Potter moved to approve the recommendation from the Transportation/
Traffic Committee and authorized the City Manager to prepare a request for
proposals , seconded by Alderman Karn. Vote unanimous. Passed 6-0
Water/Sewer Committee:  Alderman Boguskie reported that the Water/Sewer
Committee met April 7. Johnny Faulk and David Fox made a presentation on
Southport's Grease Control Ordinance. The ordinance requires cooking
establishments to have an oil and sand interceptor in place. With 42 cooking
establishments, only five are non-compliant and staff will work to bring them
into compliance. This is a county requirement and must be enforced. Mr.
Cardwell gave an update on the sewer reversal project which is on schedule.
Impact fees were discussed and it was decided that the Utilities Director and
the City Manager would review the fees and submit figures to the Board in order
to have a track record with the county. The City does not sell sewer outside of
the City limits, but as a result of meter location and the new line, the City
can accept additional clients. Costs will need to be addressed along with Board
approval for this change.
Sign Task Force: Alderman Karn reported that the Sign Task Force met twice and
discussed changes that will be recommended to the Board. DOT provided
information and drawings of the state right of way and it appears that the
wider area is where most of the issues occur with the signs. Changes will be
presented to the Planning Board.
Planning Board Staff Relations:  Alderman Poole reported the Committee met
March 24 and discussed procedures of the City and the Unified Development
Ordinance. City procedures Article II was completed and a second meeting will
be held to continue with the process of cross walking and the UDO items
governing procedures of the Planning Board.
VII.
Departmental Reports
Reports placed in the Board's agenda packet.
VIII.
Public Hearing
Alderman Boguskie motioned, seconded by Alderman Adams to enter Public Hearing
to receive comments to amend the City of Southport's Unified Development
Ordinance, Article 10: Table of Permitted Uses. Vote unanimous. Passed 6-0
Amy Nelson, City Planner stated the Planning Board recommended amending the
Table of Permitted Uses to add: restaurant, carry-out by modifying restaurant,
standard and fast food because there is a difference.
(Mayor Howard present at 6:25 p.m.)
There being no comments from the public, Mayor Howard closed the Public Hearing
upon motion of Alderman Adams, seconded by Alderman Karn, vote unanimous.
Passed 6-0
(Regular session reconvened)
IX.
New Business
a)    Ordinance Amendment to UDO, Article 10, Table of Permitted Uses
Alderman Potter motioned, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to adopt a resolution
approving the text amendment to the Unified Development Ordinance finding that
it is consistent with the Southport CAMA Core Land Use Plan and further finds
that the amendment is reasonable and in the public interest in that (i) this
type of use or business is not sufficiently addressed in the Unified
Development Ordinance and should be, (ii) this amendment is necessary to
promote orderly growth and development in the Central Business and Business
Districts, and (iii) regulation of this use is necessary to promote the public
safety and general welfare of the community by allowing walk up style
restaurants in the more pedestrian-oriented areas of the City. Vote unanimous.
Passed 6-0
RESOLUTION APPROVING TEXT AMENDMENT TO UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
THAT WHEREAS, the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance and other
land use ordinances that control land development within both the City's
incorporated areas and within its extraterritorial area; and
WHEREAS, in order to promote the public health, safety and general welfare and
to promote the best interest of the city and community, it is necessary for the
Southport Board of Aldermen from time to time to consider appropriate
revisions, modifications and additions to the city's land use ordinances; and
WHEREAS, the Planning Director has prepared and submitted to the Planning Board
a proposed amendment to Article 10 of the Southport Unified Development
Ordinance; and
WHEREAS, the Planning Board has considered this matter and has recommended that
this proposed amendment to the Unified Development Ordinance be approved; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to N. C. General Statutes and city ordinances, a public
hearing, properly noticed, was held on April 8, 2010, before the Board of
Aldermen regarding this issue; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen hereby finds that this proposed amendment to the
Unified Development Ordinance is consistent with the Southport CAMA Land Use
Plan; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that this amendment is reasonable
and in the public interest in that (i) this type of use or business is not
sufficiently addressed in the Unified Development Ordinance and should be, (ii)
this amendment is necessary to promote orderly growth and development in the
Central Business and Business Districts, and (iii) regulation of this uses is
necessary to promote the public safety and general welfare of the community by
allowing walk up style restaurants in the more pedestrian-oriented areas of the
City;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that the
attached amendment and addition to the Southport Unified Development Ordinance
is hereby approved and adopted.
This 8th day of April, 2010.
City of Southport
By:
s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
ATTEST:
Regina W. Alexander, Clerk
TEXT AMENDMENT # 10-0318-02
An Ordinance Amending the City of Southport Unified Development Ordinance
AMEND:
1) ARTICLE 10: TABLE OF PERMITTED USES:
The Table of Permitted Uses is hereby amended by adding "Restaurant, Carry-
Out"and by placing a "P" entry in the CBD (Central Business District) and in
the BD (Business District) columns.
Additionally, the existing entry of "Restaurant, Standard Fast-Food Carry-Out"
will be modified to read "Restaurant, Standard and Fast Food".
This ordinance is effective upon the date of adoption.
Adopted April 8, 2010.
s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:
s/ Regina W. Alexander, Clerk
b)    Ordinance - Minimum Housing Code
City Manager Thornton presented an Ordinance finding that a dwelling in
Southport violates the minimum housing code and requested approval for
demolition of a dwelling located at 213 East Brown Street. Mr. Drew, Code
Enforcement Officer acknowledged that all heirs had been contacted.
AN ORDINANCE FINDING THAT A DWELLING LOCATED IN THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT VIOLATES
THE MINIMUM HOUSING CODE AND DIRECTING THAT SAID DWELLING BE DEMOLISHED
WHEREAS, the Southport Board of Aldermen finds that the building on property
described herein is classified as unfit for human habitation in accordance with
the minimum housing standards included in the City of Southport Minimum Housing
Code Ordinance; and
WHEREAS, all hearings and orders, notifications, and other actions prescribed
in said Minimum Housing Code Ordinance and in N.C.G.S 160A-443 have been
accomplished prior to adoption of this ordinance; and
WHEREAS, the owners of the dwelling located on the property described herein
have been given reasonable opportunity to bring the dwelling into conformity
with the Minimum Housing Code; and
WHEREAS, the dwelling located on property described herein cannot be repaired
at a reasonable cost relative to its value, and should therefore be demolished.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF ALDERMAN OF THE CITY OF
SOUTHPORT, NORTH CAROLINA:
Section 1: That the Code Enforcement Officer of the City of Southport is hereby
authorized and directed to demolish the dwelling located in the City of
Southport at the following location:
Property Owner Name   Location of Property      Parcel Number
Mrs. Rosa Walker, HEIRS   213 East Brown Street   237EF007
Section 2: That this ordinance shall be recorded in the Office of the Register
of Deeds of Brunswick County. This ordinance shall become effective on April
08, 2010.
s/ Robert D. Howard
Attest:
s/ Regina W. Alexander
c)   Resolution - 2010 Fire wise and Urban Interface Forestry Grant Program
Ms. Nelson, City Planner presented a resolution for approval as part of the
grant process to apply for an Urban Interface Forestry Grant program to
develop, educate, enhance, implement, and support the Fire wise and healthy
forest management concepts in wild land urban interface communities throughout
North Carolina by encouraging citizen and community involvement. She stated
that this is a tree management plan which is required for tree communities in
protecting trees.
Alderman Potter motioned, seconded by Alderman Poole to approve the following
resolution, vote unanimous. Passed 6-0
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-62.jpg]
 
RESOLUTION TO ENDORSE THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT'S APPLICATION FOR THE 2010 FIREWISE
AND URBAN INTERFACE FORESTRY GRANT PROGRAM
THAT WHEREAS the NC Division of Forest Resources and the USDA Forest Service,
Southern Region is in the process of receiving grant requests for the first
Fire wise and Urban Interface Forestry Grant Program to develop, educate,
enhance, implement, and support the Fire wise and healthy forest management
concepts in wild land urban interface communities throughout North Carolina by
encouraging citizen and community involvement; and
WHEREAS the development of a management plan can:
∙   Create a safer and more pleasant urban environment,
∙   Prepare for response to damages before and after a storm,
∙   Maintain and increase the City's urban forest cover,
∙   Allow for the beginning of a program to manage the City's trees and
minimize related hazards to life and property, and
∙   Establish measurable and long-term goals and objectives.
WHEREAS the City of Southport has an opportunity to apply for this 80%-20%
matching grant program in 2010; and
WHEREAS the grant available through the NC Division of Forest Resources and the
USDA Forest Service, Southern Region will provide the basis for preserving and
protecting the trees of Southport that help give the City its special
character;
NOW, BE IT THEREFORE RESOLVED that the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport, North Carolina in session assembled this 8th day of April 2010
endorse the Fire wise and Urban Interface Forestry Grant Program application
for the City of Southport, North Carolina.
Adopted this 8th day of April 2010.
s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:
s/ Regina Alexander, City Clerk
d)   Petition Requesting Chickens Be Allowed Within the City
Mayor Howard presented petitions with approximately 300 signatures requesting
that chickens be allowed within the City of Southport and requested the
petitions be forwarded to the Planning Board and staff for a recommendation.
Alderman Potter motioned, seconded by Alderman Karn to receive the petitions
and forward same to staff and Planning Board for a recommendation. Discussion:
Alderman Adams stated this had been tried before and various types of animals
were kept in the City. The vote of approval was unanimous. Passed 6-0
e)   Discussion of Absenteeism Policy for Planning and Board of Adjustment
Alderman Karn read Article 3, Administrative Mechanisms, Part 1, Planning and
Zoning Board, Section 3-1 Membership and Vacancies which states "faithful
attendance at the meetings of the Board is considered a pre-requisite for
maintenance of membership on the Board. A vacancy shall exist on the Board if a
member is absent from twenty-five (25%) or more of the Board's meetings within
a twelve month period, and said vacancy may be declared and filled by the Board
of Aldermen." He explained that the Unified Development Ordinance makes no
provision for excused absences. It was the consensus of the Planning Committee
that it would not add a provision for excused absences. He stated that as a
member of the Committee, he attempted to communicate his concerns to the
Planning Board member but he was not receptive. Planning Board Chairmen,
present and past told him that they did not receive notification of this
member's absences. Alderman Karn stated that Aldermen are tasked with enforcing
the city ordinances and this is not a personal attack. Alderman Karn motioned,
seconded by Alderman Boguskie to remove James Powell from the Planning Board
due to excessive absences and to direct the Clerk to advertise the vacancy.
Discussion: Alderman Poole stated the UDO and City Code needs to correlate. She
explained during her tenure as Chair of the Planning Board, she was not
notified of absences; which could have been the result of the agenda packet
that is provided to each member stating if they are unable to attend meetings
to contact the Board Clerk. As a result of these instructions, the Chairman was
not notified. She stated that this will be addressed in the new procedures.
Alderman Potter stated if the Ordinance/UDO is going to be amended to include
new provisions, he suggested postponing action. Mayor Howard stated the
attendance rule has never been enforced and there are alternate members on the
Planning Board to take the place of members that are absent. He likened this to
the Sign Ordinance which has not been enforced; however the City has allowed
signs to stay in place until the ordinance is modified. He stated that the
Southport Community is built on volunteers and encouraged the Board not to
proceed with this removal.  Alderman Boguskie stated that he is in favor of
enforcing ordinances in the City Code; if not, they should be removed from the
book. Alderman Adams questioned the timing. Mayor called for the vote: 2 ayes
Aldermen Karn and Boguskie. 4 noes , Aldermen Adams, Poole, Frink and Potter.
Motion failed 4-2
f)   Spring Clean Up
Mayor Howard and the Board discussed the spring clean up and a location. City
Manager Thornton stated that Lowe-White and Steven's Park are not available and
welcomed input from the Board. Alderman Adams motioned, seconded by Alderman
Karn to pursue a site to hold the annual spring clean up. Vote unanimous.
Passed 6-0
Mayor Howard stated that he would appoint a Committee to locate a site for the
spring clean up.
g)    Tourism Department
Mayor Howard stated since the City is without a Tourism Director, that the
mission and structure of the Department needs to be re-evaluated and a profile
for a director. He recommended placing a moratorium on hiring a new director
and to appoint a Committee to work with the Manager. City Manager Thornton
stated that he welcomes the Board looking at the structure and mission of the
department; however he would not hire someone in the position without the Board
looking at directives and goals for the department. He cautioned the Board and
stated establishing a moratorium can limit the Manager regarding personnel. He
informed the Board that he appointed an interim director and the position has
been advertised in the North Carolina League of Municipalities newsletter.
Alderman Adams suggested discussing the position during the 2010-11 budget
deliberations.
Alderman Adams motioned, seconded by Alderman Karn to establish a Committee to
re-evaluate the mission of the Tourism Department, profile a Director, and to
look at the process of how involved the City wishes to get in promoting
tourism, and to place a moratorium on hiring a new Director. Discussion:
Alderman Poole asked that the motion be amended to add a time frame of ninety
(90) days. The votes were: 4 ayes, Aldermen Poole, Adams, Karn and Frink. 2
noes, Aldermen Boguskie and Potter. Motion passed 4-2
h)   Rotary Club
Mayor Howard stated that the Rotary Club owns the binoculars at the Waterfront
Park and per Agreement with the City; forty-percent of the proceeds is donated
to the City. A check in the amount of $1,448.00 was delivered to the City
Manager and the Rotarians propose that the funds be used for Parks and
Recreation.
X.
Other Business
Forestry Committee Appointments: Alderman Boguskie motioned, seconded by
Alderman Frink to appoint the following persons to the Forestry Committee (see
table below) and to name Betty Timberlake "member emeritus"  as a result of her
work and commitment to the oak trees and Forestry Committee. The vote of
approval was unanimous. Passed 6-0
Clay Fairley      115 Captain Adkins Drive      Appointed Expiration      R
                  Southport, NC 28461           4/8/2010  1/2012
                  cjfairley@ec.rr.com
                  910-457-4917/454-4037 (w)
Bryan Wester      1009 Osprey Circle            4/8/2010  1/2012          R
                  Southport, NC 28461
                  bwester@ec.rr.com
                  457-4669
Trudy Young       414 West West Street          4/8/2010  1/2012          R
                  Southport, NC 28461
                  thufham@bellsouth.net
                  457-6343
Beverly Wyckoff   4424 Willow Moss Way          4/8/2010  1/2012          R
                  Southport, NC 28461
                  bwyckoff@ec.rr.com
                  457-5599
Bryan Whitworth   210 River Drive               4/8/2010  1/2013          N
                  Southport, NC 28461
                  greenmanhort@gmail.com
                  443-7825
Amy Maisel        114 West West Street          4/8/2010  1/2013          N
                  Southport, NC 28461
                  memamaisel@aol.com
                  457-6222
William Leuschner 3523 Beaver Creek Drive       4/8/2010  1/2013          R
                  St. James, NC 28461
                  wleuschner@atmc.net
                  253-9010
Michael Fuller    811 N. Caswell Avenue         4/8/2010  1/2013          N
                  Southport, NC 28461
                  michael.b.fuller.@us.army.mil
                  363-4461/457-8429 (w)
Betty Timberlake  PO Box 395, Lake Waccamaw
                  NC 28450 646-3331             4/8/2010  Member Emeritus
Amy Nelson        Staff Liaison 457-7961
                  amy_nelson@southportnc.org    4/9/2010
 
Mayor Howard informed the Board that he received a letter from W. D. Properties
and Construction regarding impact fees and he will refer this matter to the
Utilities Committee.
Mayor Howard recognized Amy Nelson, staff planner as the recipient of the Cape
Fear Council of Governments 2010 Planner of the Year.
XI.
City Manager Comments
Mr. Thornton informed the Board that the urban centers (five metropolitan
areas) of North Carolina are seeking a change in the funding equity method in
North Carolina. These monies are used to fund roads in the state. The urban
centers propose to change the formula in order to get more funding as they have
been the recipient of transportation improvements i.e. loops, four lane roads,
etc. for the past 20 years. If the formula is changed by the N. C. General
Assembly, it will delay projects especially in rural areas. City Manager
Thornton asked the Board to adopt a resolution to send to congressional
representatives opposing the formula change. It was Board consensus that the
Manager draft a resolution for Board review and it will be acted upon at the
May meeting.
City Manager Thornton thanked Mayor Howard for speaking before a legislative
committee in Raleigh on behalf of the City to maintain local control of its ABC
system. He explained that making local Boards regional would take away
revenues.
City Manager Thornton informed the Board that they should receive a draft
budget in May.
XII.
Board Comments
Mayor Howard stated that he spoke before a joint legislative study committee
asking them to carefully consider and deliberate reasonable reforms while
perpetuating the integrity of local controlled ABC systems. He explained that
the City of Southport's Act was approved in the legislative session on May 24,
1957 with voter approval and Southport received the first revenues in 1959. He
provided some facts to the Committee about Southport's ABC Board and store,
which has excellent management and sound business principles with cost controls
in place. The ABC Store returns 12.23% of revenues to the City from sales. He
stated that local municipalities and Brunswick County are unified on
maintaining local control of its ABC stores.
Mayor Howard announced the death of David Nash, former N.C. Cooperative
Extension employer. He spoke about his work with the City and the Forestry
Committee. He mentioned that the oak tree located in front of City Hall was
donated by David Nash in memory of his father.
Alderman Frink reported that the Fort Johnston Committee met and they are
waiting to receive additional information from the Southport Historical Society
before a decision is made about the building.
City Manager Thornton reported that the City received a second opinion on March
21 from an arborist with the NC Extension Department on the oak trees. He
reported that the trees are going through a natural aging process and
recommended performing crown cleaning which is pruning dead limbs. If the Board
wishes to begin this process, it should be determined which trees need pruning.
Alderman Karn stated he was concerned about the tree at the post office. Mayor
Howard recommended that Alderman Boguskie, Board liaison to the Forestry
Committee and the City Manager meet with the Committee and brief them on the
report. The Clerk was requested to place this matter on the May agenda.
Alderman Karn suggested seeking an experienced grant writer to assist the City
in writing grants.
Mayor Howard referenced a letter from Southport Primary School commending the
Police Department on the success of the High Impact Program.
Performance Evaluation: Mayor Howard stated the City does not have evaluation
procedures in place for the City Manager and Clerk. He and Mayor Pro Tem Poole
reviewed several evaluation forms from other areas including the League and
developed a process for evaluating the City Manager. They selected questions
that best identify Southport for the evaluation. The process allows the
employee to perform a self evaluation and written narrative which will be
returned to the Mayor and Mayor Pro Tem. Upon receipt of the City Manager's
self evaluation and narrative, copies will be given to Board members and each
Alderman will complete their individual performance evaluation. The results of
the evaluation will be compiled and the Board will meet in closed session for
discussion. Alderman Poole reviewed the seven step process with the Board.
Alderman Potter questioned the seventh step including only the Mayor and Mayor
Pro Tem and expressed that the entire Board should be included.
XIII.
Adjournment - 8:10 p.m.
No further business, Alderman Boguskie motioned for adjournment, seconded by
Alderman Frink, vote unanimous. Passed 6-0
__________________________________
/s/Robert D. Howard, Mayor
________________________________
/s/Regina W. Alexander, MMC
City Clerk
MAY 13, 2010
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
MAY 13, 2010      6:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, N C
 
PRESENT:         Robert Howard, Mayor
            Mary Ellen Poole, Mayor Pro Tem
            Aldermen Kenneth Karn, Jwantana Frink and Nelson Adams
ABSENT:         Aldermen Ed Boguskie and Donnie Potter
STAFF:         M. Alan Thornton, City Manager
            Michael Isenberg, City Attorney
            Regina W. Alexander, MMC, City Clerk
            Patty Miller, Director of Finance
            Amy Nelson, Director of Planning
            Ralph Cardwell, Director of Public Services
            Heather Hemphill, Director of Parks and Recreation
            Charles Drew, Code Enforcement Officer
            Jerry V. Dove, Chief of Police
I.
Call to Order - 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m. and extended words of
welcome.
II.
Invocation
Mayor Howard delivered the invocation.
III.
Approval of Minutes
Alderman Frink motioned, seconded by Alderman Poole to approve April 8 regular
meeting minutes. Vote unanimous. Passed 4-0
IV.
Approval of Agenda
Mayor Howard requested approval of the revised agenda which included committee
reports (Beautification), Tourism Department, request from W.D. Properties &
Construction and petitions to allow chickens within the city limits, City
Manager and Clerk's performance evaluation with executive session.
Alderman Karn asked that Item XII. Executive session for City Manager and
Clerk's Performance Evaluations be removed from the agenda because two Board
members were absent. He questioned hastening the evaluations since one was held
in December by retiring Board members which did not raise any performance
deficiencies. He stated that the current Board has spent four months with the
City Manager and no specific goals have been given and he does not believe
staff can properly be evaluated when the Board's expectations are not known. He
asked that this be postponed until approval of the budget. He explained that
the evaluation does not qualify for an executive session because personal
information will not be discussed and this should be conducted in a public
meeting. However, the final evaluation results should be in closed session.
Alderman Karn then motioned to remove Item XII from the agenda, the motion died
for lack of a second
Alderman Adams motioned to approve the agenda, seconded by Alderman Frink. The
votes were 3 ayes, Adams, Frink and Poole. 1 no, Alderman Karn.
V.
Public Comments
Pat Kirkman of 119 Park Avenue representing the Southport Historical Society
reminded the Board that the Southport Historical Society is still interested in
acquiring the Garrison House to establish a museum.
Mayor Howard sent well wishes to Larry Maisel, President of the Southport
Historical Society who is hospitalized as a result of a car accident.
VI.
Committee Reports
Mayor Howard stated "if any member of the Board of Aldermen knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda please so state at this time."
a)   Beautification Committee -
Mayor Howard stated his desire to reactivate the committee in accordance with
the current bylaws which requires a membership of eight to be appointed by the
Board of Aldermen. Alderman Poole stated the need to reactivate the Committee
would help with the City's parks and streetscape. Mayor Howard suggested that
each Board member including the Mayor present a name for appointment and the
eighth person to be appointed at large by the Mayor and Mayor Pro-Tem.
Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Frink to reactivate the Southport
Beautification Committee in accordance with existing bylaws. Vote unanimous.
Passed 4-0
Alderman Adams motioned, seconded by Alderman Poole that the Mayor and each
Board member appoint a member to the Beautification Committee, with the eighth
person being appointed by the Mayor and Mayor Pro Tem. Vote unanimous. Passed
4-0
b)   Tourism Department Study Committee - Alderman Boguskie
Alderman Boguskie recommended (via e-mail to the Mayor) Shirley Wilson, Bert
Felton and John Pfohl for appointment. Alderman Poole recommended David McVeigh
. Board consensus was to name these four (4) individuals to the Tourism
Department Study Committee.
Mayor Howard reiterated that the charge to the Committee is to re-evaluate the
mission of the Tourism Department, profile a Director, and to look at the
process of how involved the City wishes to get in promoting tourism and to
place a moratorium on hiring a new Director until such time as a report is made
and accepted by the Board in a time frame of ninety (90) days.
c)    Fort Johnston Committee - Aldermen Frink and Karn
Alderman Frink reported that the Committee is waiting to receive the facilities
needs study and the Southport Historical Society is preparing a business plan
for submittal.
d)    Sign Ordinance Task Force - Alderman Karn
Alderman Karn reported that recommended text changes were presented to the City
Planner for review and presentation to the Planning Board. The changes will
allow A-frame signs with specific guidelines. Once changes are made, he will
provide a document to each business explaining the ordinance. Alderman Poole
suggested an actual sign be shown to the Board for a better perspective.
e)    Planning Board Staff Relations - Alderman Poole
Alderman Poole reported that the Committee has completed proposed changes to
the City Code and Unified Development Ordinance. The City Planner will present
proposed changes to the Planning Board and submit a recommendation to the Board
of Aldermen.
f)    Zoning Board of Adjustment Vacancies
It was Board consensus to direct staff to advertise four vacancies on the
Zoning Board and present applications at the next Board meeting (June).
g)   Website Study Committee - Alderman Karn
Alderman Karn reported that Amy Nelson, City Planner developed a prototype page
which will be available soon for Board review.
h)   Old Yacht Basin Property
Alderman Poole and Mayor Howard updated the Board on the status of the
acquisition interest in the Old Yacht Basin property. She and Mayor Howard met
with Jim Wicker on May 4, who was the representative for First Bank. Mr. Wicker
advised that First Bank was handling the property but was not the original
financing institution. He would convey the City's interest in acquiring the
property to the officers of First Bank. Alderman Poole stated that no proposal
or offer was made by the City, nor was any amount of monies discussed.
VII.
Departmental Reports
Reports included in the agenda packet.
Police Department: Mayor Howard announced that the Rotary Club recognized
Cheryl Hayes, as Support Person of the Year and Mike Simmons, Officer of the
Year from the Southport Police Department.
Municipal Clerks Week: Mayor Howard and the Board recognized Board Clerk Regina
Alexander in honor of Municipal Clerk's Week.
VIII.
Public Hearing
a)   Ordinance to amend the City of Southport Unified Development Ordinance
with respect to conditional uses
Alderman Adams motioned to enter Public Hearing, seconded by Alderman Karn.
Vote unanimous. Passed 4-0
Amy Nelson, City Planner stated that someone was interested in having property
annexed into the City for the purpose of an RV Park; however, the City Code
does not address RV Parks, and she wrote design standards with respect to
conditional uses.
Attorney Isenberg noted that conditional uses are granted by the Board of
Adjustments and observed that the ordinance referenced the Planning Board and
asked that this be corrected.
There being no public comments, Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Poole
to close the Public Hearing. Vote unanimous. Passed 4-0
Alderman Adams asked that the City be cautious when permitting RV Parks because
they can have a negative impact on the City and require more attention than
other developments. Attorney Isenberg noted that they would have to meet strict
standards and it will not be a permitted use, but a conditional use.
Alderman Karn moved to adopt the resolution approving the text amendment to the
Unified Development Ordinance finding that these amendments are reasonable and
in the public interest in that (i) this type of use or business is not
addressed in the Unified Development Ordinance and should be, (ii) these
amendments are necessary to promote orderly growth and development in the
Highway Commercial District, and (iii) regulation of this use is necessary to
promote the public safety and general welfare of the community by allowing RV
Parks in the City. Motion seconded by Alderman Poole. The votes were: 3 ayes,
Aldermen Poole, Karn and Frink. 1 abstention, Alderman Adams, which counts as a
yes vote. Motion passed 4-0
RESOLUTION APPROVING TEXT AMENDMENT TO UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
THAT WHEREAS, the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance and other
land use ordinances that control land development within both the City's
incorporated areas and within its extraterritorial area; and
WHEREAS, in order to promote the public health, safety and general welfare and
to promote the best interest of the city and community, it is necessary for the
Southport Board of Aldermen from time to time to consider appropriate
revisions, modifications and additions to the city's land use ordinances; and
WHEREAS, the Planning Director has prepared and submitted to the Planning Board
proposed amendments to Articles 10, 12 and 16 of the Southport Unified
Development Ordinance; and
WHEREAS, the Planning Board has considered these matters and has recommended
that these proposed amendments to the Unified Development Ordinance be
approved; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to N. C. General Statutes and city ordinances, a public
hearing, properly noticed, was held on May 13, 2010, before the Board of
Aldermen regarding these issues; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen hereby finds that these proposed amendments to
the Unified Development Ordinance are consistent with the Southport CAMA Land
Use Plan; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that these amendments are
reasonable and in the public interest in that (i) this type of use or business
is not addressed in the Unified Development Ordinance and should be, (ii) these
amendments are necessary to promote orderly growth and development in the
Highway Commercial District, and (iii) regulation of this use is necessary to
promote the public safety and general welfare of the community by allowing RV
Parks in the City;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that the
attached amendment and addition to the Southport Unified Development Ordinance
is hereby approved and adopted.
This 13th day of May, 2010.
City of Southport
By:
/s/ Robert D. Howard
Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk
AMENDMENT TO CITY OF SOUTHPORT UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
TEXT AMENDMENT # 10-0318-01
An Ordinance Amending the City of Southport Unified Development Ordinance, With
Respect to Conditional Uses
AMEND:
1) ARTICLE 10: TABLE OF PERMITTED USES:
The Table of Permitted Uses is hereby amended by adding "Recreational Vehicle
Parks, Private", and by placing a "C" entry in the HC (Highway Commercial)
column.
2) ARTICLE 12: ZONING & CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT APPROVAL
Section 12-19: Supplemental Regulations
"Regulations for Conditional Uses", is hereby amended by adding a new section,
to be inserted in alphabetical sequence, to read as follows:
Use: Recreational Vehicle Parks, Private, Conditional Use District: HC
Use - Recreational Vehicle Parks, Private. The following specific provisions
shall be met as minimum standards prior to the approval of any private business
engaging in recreational vehicle parks, hereinafter referred to as RV Park, as
a conditional use in the Highway Commercial (HC) zoning district. For the
purpose of this chapter, Recreational Vehicle Park, RV Park and Travel Trailer
Park have the same meaning.
(A)    Design Standards
(1)   An RV Park shall require minimum gross land area of three acres.
(2)   A minimum of 8% of the total land area shall be devoted to accessible
common open spaces intended for recreational use. These open spaces are
separate from the individual RV sites, hereinafter referred to as campsites,
and shall be grouped and of character suitable for active and passive
recreation and shall be reasonably located for safe and convenient access to
residents. Sufficiency of size of each open space shall be determined by the
Zoning Board of Adjustment.
(3)   A buffer strip of at least ten feet in width shall be maintained along
all public road frontages and along the perimeter of the RV Park (see Section
18-1). These buffers shall be free of all encroachment by campsites, buildings
or structures, parking areas or impervious coverage.
(4)   An RV Park shall contain at least 15 individual campsites.
(5)   All campsites shall be located on land with elevations that are not
susceptible to flooding. Campsites shall be graded to prevent any water from
ponding or accumulating within the park. Each campsite shall be properly graded
to obtain a reasonably flat area and to provide adequate drainage away from the
space. This requirement is not intended to circumvent FEMA regulations or the
City of Southport Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance (Section 21).
(6)   Each campsite shall be located at least 30 feet from the edge of any
publicly-maintained street or road.
(7)   RV Park shall be designed to prevent overcrowding, fire hazards, and to
provide sufficient light and air. In no case shall an individual campsite be
less than 1,250 square feet in area or have a minimum average width of less
than 25 feet. In no case shall an RV be parked closer than 15 feet to another
RV.
(8)   No campsite shall have direct vehicular access to a public road.
(9)   Each campsite shall be identified by a permanent number which may not be
changed. The appropriate number of each campsite must be permanent and visibly
displayed on each space. Each number shall be placed on a concrete, wood,
metal, or any permanent post and conspicuously located on the campsite.
(10)   Each RV Park and any future additions thereto must meet the minimum
standards and requirements set forth in the International Building Codes with
North Carolina Amendments for sanitation and plumbing installations,
accommodations, use and any associated parking. These structures may also
contain a retail sales counter and/or coin operated machine for the RV Park
residents' use, provided there is no exterior advertising. Vending machines
also may be permitted in a sheltered area provided there is no exterior
advertising on the structure. All service structures shall be maintained in a
clean and sanitary condition and kept in good repair at all times. Structures
shall be safely and adequately illuminated. Facilities shall be easily
accessible and conveniently located to all users of the RV Park. All structures
shall be constructed in accordance with the International Building Code with
North Carolina Amendments, and shall meet Building Code and/or UDO setback
requirements.
(11)   In addition to the prohibition on advertising on vending structures, the
sign regulations for the base zoning district in which the RV Park is located
shall apply.
(B)   Parking and Streets
(1)   Parking shall be provided in compliance with Article 16, Off-Street
Parking and Off-Street Loading Requirements. Parking within the RV Park shall
take place off an internal street within designated parking areas only.
(2)   No campsite within an RV Park may directly access a public street. Access
to all campsites and accessory structures within the RV Park shall be made
using internal streets.
(3)   Internal Street Standards
(a)    One or two-way streets shall be used throughout the RV Park. Such
streets shall be well-maintained and clearly identified. All streets within the
RV Park shall be privately owned and maintained. Each campsite shall abut an
internal street within the RV Park.
(b)    Streets shall have a minimum width of 20 feet for two-way streets and 14
feet for one-way streets.
(c)    Any dead-end shall be provided with a permanent turnaround with a
minimum radius of 40 feet.
(d)    All internal streets within the RV Park shall be surfaced with a minimum
of six inches of compacted stone and shall be capable of supporting the imposed
load of fire apparatus in accordance with the Fire Apparatus Access Roads
Standard in the North Carolina Fire Code (NC Fire Code Section 503, fire
apparatus weighing at least 75,000 pounds) and be equipped with adequate and
suitable drainage facilities.
(e)    Maintenance of all internal streets and drainage facilities shall be the
responsibility of the owner of the RV Park. Such streets shall be maintained in
a manner to be free from pot holes, breaks in the pavement, rough surfaces,
ponding of water and associated problems which would impede or cause hazards to
motor vehicles. Speed reduction bumps on paved internal streets are
permissible, but they shall be painted and appropriate signs indicating the
bump must be placed along the street.
(f)    All internal streets shall be subject to annual inspections by the City
of Southport Code Enforcement Officer or Building Inspector per Section 106 of
the North Carolina Fire Code.
(4)   External Access
(a)    An RV Park shall not be located on through lots. RV Park roads shall be
designed to slow traffic.
(b)    An RV Park with only one point of external access shall provide at least
one permanent turnaround within the campsite. All external access must be
approved by the Southport Public Services Director or the North Carolina
Department of Transportation if the connecting street is a state-maintained
road.
(c)    Any proposed electronic vehicular access gates or barricades must be
siren-activated for Emergency Vehicle access.
(C)   Utilities
(1)    Water
(a)    An accessible, adequate, safe and potable supply of water shall be
required. Where public, municipal, or community water systems exist within
1,000 feet of the park, the developer shall connect to such system.
(b)    When a public water supply is not available, a community water supply
may be developed and its supply used exclusively in accordance with local and
state regulations and standards of the Division of Environmental Management, NC
Department of Environment, Health, and Natural Resources codified in 15A NCAC
2C. Each water supply well shall be located so as to maintain a minimum
pollution-free radius as specified in N.C.G.S. 15A-18C-0203. Siting of well
locations should be discussed with the Brunswick County health authority.
(c)    Internal water distribution systems shall be installed in accordance
with minimum City Standards.
(2)   Sewer
(a)    Approval by the Brunswick County Health Department shall be required for
any installation, alteration or use of a sewage disposal system. All sewage
wastes from each park, including wastes from toilets, showers, bathtubs,
lavatories, wash basins, sinks, and water using appliances not herein
mentioned, shall be disposed of by an approved sewage disposal system.
(b)    Adequate and safe sewage disposal facilities shall be provided in all RV
Parks. Where public, municipal, or community sewer systems exist within 1,000
feet of the RV Park, the developer shall connect to such system.
(c)    When a public, municipal, or community system does not exist within
1,000 feet, a centralized sewage disposal and treatment system complying with
the requirements of the North Carolina Department of Environment, Health and
Natural Resources shall be provided. Individual septic tank systems may be
allowed in accordance with the requirements of Title 15A - Department of
Environment, Health and Natural Resources - Chapter 18 - Environmental Health
Subchapter 18A - Sanitation Section .1900 - Sewage Treatment And Disposal
Systems.
(d)    Each RV Park shall provide at least one sewage dumping station for each
100 campsites which are not equipped with individual sewer and water
connections. Sewage dumping stations shall be approved by the Brunswick County
Health Department or the North Carolina Division of Water Quality.
(D)   RV Park Operation
(1)    General
(a)    The person to whom an operating permit for an RV Park is issued shall
operate the RV Park in compliance with this Ordinance and shall be responsible
for maintaining the RV Park, its facilities and equipment in good repair and in
a clean and sanitary condition.
(b)    The RV Park owner shall notify its visitors of all applicable provisions
of this Ordinance and inform them of their responsibilities under this
Ordinance.
(c)    The RV Park owner shall be responsible for refuse collection. Storage,
collection, and disposal of refuse shall be so managed as not to create health
hazards, rodent harborage, insect-breeding areas, accident, fire hazards, or
air pollution. Any refuse storage devices shall be enclosed on three sides by
opaque fencing material. The method of garbage disposal shall be noted on the
plan and approved by the City of Southport Zoning Board of Adjustment.
(d)    Swimming pools or bathing areas shall be installed, altered, improved,
and used in compliance with applicable County and State Health Services
regulations. Any bathing area shall require the approval of the Brunswick
County Health Department.
(e)    Except as specifically permitted by this paragraph, it shall be unlawful
to locate a mobile home in an RV Park. Two mobile homes shall be permitted to
be located within a RV Park to be used as residences of persons responsible for
the operation and/or maintenance of the RV Park.
(f)    No more than one RV camper may be parked on any one campsite. RV campers
shall not be permitted on parcels, lots, or spaces other than those approved
through these regulations.
(g)    The transfer of title of campsites, either by sale or by any other
manner shall be prohibited within an RV Park as long as the RV Park is in
operation.
(h)    All RV campers must be placed individually on approved campsites where
all design standards and utilities have been completed.
(i)    Junked or wrecked vehicles shall be prohibited in an RV Park.
(2)   Inspection
The Brunswick County Health Department, the City of Southport Building
Inspector, the City of Southport Code Enforcement Officer and the Public
Services Department are hereby authorized and directed to make such inspections
as are necessary to determine satisfactory compliance with this Ordinance. It
shall be the duty of the owners of RV Parks to give these agencies free access
to such premises at reasonable times for inspections.
3)    ARTICLE 16 OFF STREET PARKING AND OFF-STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS
Section 16-3: Minimum Parking Requirements
"Minimum Parking Requirements", is hereby amended by adding a new section, to
be inserted in alphabetical sequence, to read as follows:
Recreational Vehicle (RV) Parks, Private   Two (2) parking spaces at each
campsite + 1 per 500 SF of enclosed area for offices, maintenance facilities,
etc. within the park.
This ordinance is effective upon the date of adoption, May 13, 2010.
/s/ Robert D. Howard
Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
City Clerk
b)    Resolution opposing revising the N. C. Transportation Equity formula
City Manager Thornton presented a resolution for Board consideration. He
explained that the Metropolitan Mayors Coalition is seeking to change the North
Carolina Equity Formula which has worked well in the past; and if changed, the
smaller counties/municipalities would receive less funding. Mayor Howard stated
his support of the resolution.
Alderman Karn motioned to adopt the resolution in opposition to revising the
North Carolina Transportation Equity Formula, seconded by Alderman Frink. Vote
unanimous. Passed 4-0
Resolution in Opposition to Revising of the North Carolina Transportation
Equity Formula
WHEREAS, the North Carolina General Assembly implemented the Transportation
Equity formula twenty years ago as a result of the 1989 Highway Trust Fund law;
and
WHEREAS, the Transportation Equity Formula provides a fair means of
distributing the various types of transportation funds; and
WHEREAS, the North Carolina Metropolitan Mayors Coalition has requested that
MPO's, RPO's, municipalities and counties endorse resolutions supporting the
evaluation and revision of the Transportation Equity Formula; and
WHEREAS, it is expected that the Cape Fear Area Rural Planning Organization's
member local governments would be adversely impacted by any changes to the
Transportation Equity Formula.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Southport Board of Aldermen opposes the
efforts of the North Carolina Metropolitan Mayors Coalition in seeking to re-
evaluate and modify the Transportation Equity formula.
ADOPTED, this the 13th day of May, 2010 by the Southport Board of Aldermen.
s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:
s/Regina W. Alexander, Clerk
c)   Presentation of Proposed City of Southport Operating Budget FY 2010-2011
City Manager Thornton presented the proposed FY 2010-2011 operating budget with
no proposed tax increase and no increase for utilities. He noted that the
general fund, electric and water/sewer funds are healthy but very few capital
projects are recommended for funding. He explained that the budget is
conservative but maintains a high level of public services. The budget will be
on file in the Clerk's office and the Margaret and Jim Harper Library for
public review. He requested the date for the Public Hearing be set.
Mayor Howard encouraged the Board to review the budget carefully and to insure
that the historical heritage of the City is taken care of because deferring
some projects may result in costlier expenditures in the future.
Motion was made by Alderman Karn, seconded by Alderman Poole to hold the Public
Hearing on the budget June 10, 2010 at 6:00 p.m. Vote unanimous.  Passed 4-0
Board consensus to schedule work sessions Saturday May 22 and June 5 at 8:00
a.m. and the Clerk will poll members to confirm the dates.
d)   Tax Releases
Alderman Frink motioned, seconded by Alderman Karn to approve tax releases per
recommendation of the tax collector for Robert Moretz on properties 237EA03301,
237LA03302, 237LA03303, and 237LA03304, tax years 2001/2002 in the amount of
$662.76. Vote unanimous. Passed 4-0
IX.
Other Business
a)    Request from W.D. Properties & Construction
City Manager Thornton stated a letter was provided to W. D. Properties and
Construction about the application process. Alderman Boguskie is the Chair of
the Committee and provided information to the Board.
b)    Chicken Petitions
Mayor Howard stated the petitions were provided to the Planning Board for
review and public comment. He asked that this be deferred until June 10, at
which time a recommendation will be presented from the Planning Board.
Alderman Frink moved to defer action on the chicken petitions until June 10,
seconded by Alderman Karn. Vote unanimous. Passed 4-0
X.
City Manager Comments
∙   Town Hall Day June 16, Quorum Center, Raleigh, NC
∙   Ibis Fest, May 14-15
∙   Lowe-White Park Grand Opening May 25, 5:30 p.m.
∙   Parks & Recreation staff relocated to Atlantic Avenue (Old Senior Center
Building)
∙   Report at June meeting on space analysis and consultant for annexation
XI.
Board Comments
∙   Alderman Karn asked about the State Ports Authority holding a public
meeting in Southport. City Manager Thornton stated that representatives from
the State Ports prefer that the 905-B Study be completed before holding a
public meeting.
∙   Alderman Karn stated during the May meeting utilities for the Fire
Department was discussed and the utility bill has been paid by the City, but it
is currently budgeted within the Fire Department's budget.
∙   Alderman Karn stated that any overlay development proposed by the Planning
Board enhance rather than detract from the ambience of the City's waterfront
park.
∙   Mayor Howard asked that the meeting time be changed on the website and the
sign in front of City Hall
∙   Mayor Howard asked that the Board consider some form of recognition for
retired employees and to also recognize Mr. Jones for his service to the City
as Tourism Director.
∙   Mayor Howard stated that Mayors from 32 municipalities will meet informally
to discuss relationships with ElectriCities and the cost of electricity. He
plans to attend the meeting in Elizabeth City and requested input from members
of the Board.
∙   Brunswick County will host an emergency preparedness meeting on June 1 and
afterwards he would like a follow up with City Manager and public safety staff.
∙   The Mayors of the six local municipalities will meet with Governor Purdue
to request an appointment to the State Ports Authority from the immediate area.
He personally spoke with Senator Basnight and Speaker Jo Hackney to explain the
need to be involved in the process but no commitments have been made. They will
also discuss the intersection at Long Beach Road and NC. Hwy 211 with proposed
options that will provide more flexibility.
∙   Mayor Howard stated in order to adjust the Local Option Sales Tax Bill
(Session Law 2002-129, HB 1668) a Tourism Authority must be established. He and
City Manager Thornton spoke with Representative Iler and Senator Soles about a
text change to the bill, but were told by Representative Iler that it is more
complex than a text amendment. This will be placed on the Board's July agenda.
XII.
Executive Session (Continuation of Manager and Clerk's Performance Evaluations)
Mayor Howard discussed the continuation of the performance evaluations for the
Manager and Clerk. He stated his understanding that two members were absent,
but explained that the evaluations are Board driven and not a rush to judgment.
He explained that the Board directed him and Mayor Pro Tem Poole to begin the
process. He noted that all city employees have been evaluated with the
exception of the Clerk and Manager. He explained that the City Manager's
employment contract calls for his evaluation and performance at least once
annually before adoption of the annual operating budget which is in accordance
with specific criteria developed by the City. When the process began, there
were no criteria in place; therefore he and the Mayor Pro Tem developed
criteria and a form which was given to the Board for review and comment. They
were complying with terms of the contract.
Alderman Poole agreed that all members of the Board should be present for the
evaluations, but stated the need to initiate the process. She motioned to
postpone the executive session and to hold a special meeting to discuss the
process and initiate procedures to evaluate the Manager and Clerk. She asked
that she be allowed to develop an evaluation form for the Clerk. The motion was
seconded by Alderman Frink. Discussion:  Alderman Adams stated he wanted to be
respectful of the absent Board members and agreed that the process needs to
start. Alderman Karn asked about the review that was performed in December and
if it qualified. It was noted by Mayor Howard and Mayor Pro Tem Poole that a
review form was not in the personnel file, only a conclusion. Mayor Howard
suggested the evaluations be considered after the budget work session, if time
permits. The vote of approval was unanimous. Passed 4-0
Mayor Howard and Alderman Poole asked for suggestions or other performance
evaluation forms because they want everyone involved in the process.
XIII.
Adjournment
There was no further business for discussion; Alderman Frink motioned to
adjourn, seconded by Alderman Karn, vote unanimous. Passed 4-0
__________________________________
Mayor
Attest:
________________________________
City Clerk
MAY 22, 2010
SPECIAL MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
MAY 22, 2010      8:00 A.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, N C
 
PRESENT:         Robert Howard, Mayor
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Kenneth Karn, Jwantana Frink, Ed
Boguskie
            and Donnie Potter
ABSENT:         Alderman Nelson Adams
STAFF:         M. Alan Thornton, City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander, MMC, City Clerk
            Neal Sage, Chief of Southport Rescue Squad
            John Young, Volunteer Rescue Squad Treasurer
I.
Call to Order - 8:08 a.m.
Mayor Howard called the meeting to order and delivered the invocation.
II.
Proposed Budget FY 2010-2011
Mayor Howard asked the Board to be cognizant of providing sufficient revenue to
carry on the City's functions and to provide sufficient monies to perpetuate
the infrastructure and beautification of the City while adopting a budget that
the citizens can live with.
Mayor Howard communicated that he attended a meeting in Elizabeth City with
Mayors of ElectriCities members. Discussed were concerns about ElectriCities
ability to borrow money at will. As a result, member cities financial
obligations have been extended and part of this is due to mismanagement and
real estate bonds investments. Mayor Howard stated that member cities need to
work collectively with legislators and municipal power agencies to place
restrictions on borrowing money except that which is authorized by the Boards
of member cities. He noted that a number of cities transfer monies from their
electric enterprise fund into the general fund to offset taxes.
Mayor Howard advised the Board, when he was in Raleigh that he spoke with
legislators about the need to appoint a representative from this area to the
Ports Authority Board.
Mr. Thornton advised that the proposed budget was compiled with no rate
increase in the electric, water and sewer funds, nor proposed tax increase, but
delivering the same level of services. (See budget message)
Budget Message
The Budget for Fiscal Year 2010-2011 reflects a continuation of strong fiscal
conservativism that management believes is necessary to insure the delivery of
essential and desirable public services to the citizens of Southport. The
continued economic instability and market volatility necessitates a very
conservative approach in calculating anticipated revenues and budgeting desired
expenditures. Essentially, the City of Southport FY 2010-2011 Budget is a hold
the line budget in terms of utility fees, taxes and to a great extent,
expenditures.
The FY 2010-2011 Budget reflects the continuation of the current municipal ad
valorem tax rate at that of .18 per $ 100 of valuation. In spite of the overall
State and National trend, the City's Ad Valorem tax base and subsequently its
property tax revenues continues to experience slow growth. Water, Sewer and
Electric utility rates are not proposed to be increased in the FY 2010-2011City
of Southport Annual Budget. Fiscal year 2010-2011 will be a transitional year
for the City of Southport's wastewater operations as the reversal project is
completed, our wastewater treatment plant is shut down and the City begins
sending its wastewater to the County of Brunswick for treatment. Management
stresses that close scrutiny and diligence continue to be paid to the Water and
Sewer Fund in coming years as rate adjustments may likely be necessary to
offset the anticipated impact and treatment fees that the City will experience.
Management also stresses that close scrutiny be paid to the City's Electric
Enterprise Fund. While this Fund has continued to 'hold its own', the level of
capital necessary to perform system enhancements, upgrades, replacements and
the placement of the system underground, is not being realized. The City's
electrical distribution system continues to age and with that age comes the
need to perform greater levels of maintenance and upgrades. The City of
Southport needs to review the methodology involved with creating appropriate
levels of capital reserves in this Fund to meet the needs of a municipally
operated electric distribution system.
Proactive foresight and continued diligence in terms of reducing departmental
expenditures, conservative revenue projections and Board and staff support have
provided the City of Southport with growth in all three of its funds over the
last two fiscal years. Since June of 2008, the Total Available Fund Balance has
grown from $ 2,850,000 to more than $ 4,350,000 with nearly $ 1.1 million of
that growth being realized in the General Fund.
Overall, the proposed FY 2010-2011 City of Southport Annual Budget seeks to
maintain a high level of delivery of desirable public services while
responsibly taking into account the needs for future programs and service
improvements.
In spite of the national and state economy and the budgetary challenges it
presents, it is expressly understood that citizens demand and expect more from
their local government than ever before. With this in mind, every effort is
being made to respond to these needs by the City of Southport. The public
services provided by the City of Southport remain responsive and of the highest
quality in spite of the ever rising expense of providing them.
General Fund
The General Fund is the basic operating fund of the City. It is used to account
for all financial resources except those required to be accounted for within
another specific fund. The primary revenue sources of the General Fund are Ad
Valorem property taxes and State-shared revenues. Primary expenditures within
the General Fund are for Police, Fire, Streets & Sidewalks, Solid Waste
Collection, Recreational Services and Facilities, Public Property Maintenance,
Planning, Zoning and Code Enforcement as well as other General Governmental and
Administrative services. The total proposed General Fund budget for FY 10-11 is
$ 4,091,500 which amounts to a $ 266,800 decrease from last year's budget of $
4,358,300 and a $ 527,205 decrease from FY 2008-2009 year's budget of $
4,618,705.
The proposed budget for FY 2010-2011 maintains the property tax rate of .18
cents per $100 valuation. In the face of increasing fuel, utility, personnel,
economic uncertainty and other related costs, it is a testament to diligent
oversight by the Board, management and staff that the City continues to provide
high quality public services in these challenging financial times.
Water & Sewer Fund
The FY 2010-2011 budget for this Enterprise Fund reflects a period of
transition from the City of Southport operating its own wastewater treatment
facilities to that of partnering with the County of Brunswick for wastewater
treatment and the future decommissioning of the City's wastewater treatment
facility. The construction of the necessary infrastructure to complete the
reversal of wastewater flow from the City of Southport to the treatment
facilities of the County of Brunswick will be completed during FY 2010-2011.
The closure of the City's wastewater treatment facilities will also take place
in FY 2010-2011 upon completion of the flow reversal project. All of this has
been necessitated by the State Division of Water Quality's ruling that the City
of Southport eliminate the discharge of its treated wastewater into the
Atlantic Intercoastal Waterway by November of 2011. The City will continue to
purchase potable water from the County of Brunswick for the course of FY 2010-
2011. Currently, this Fund is in secure financial position. Diligence will be
required over the course of the next few years to continue to maintain this
position. There are no proposed rate increases in FY 2010-2011 as staff will
continue to monitor the overall costs and effects of this transition in the
treatment of municipal wastewater and make recommendations to the Board.
Electric Fund
The Electric Fund continues to be a budgetary challenge in FY 2010-2011. The
significant cost of purchasing electricity for distribution to the customers on
the City's system remains as the primary challenge for the City as we strive to
provide reliable and affordable public power. The purchase of electricity and
the contract for maintenance that the City has with Brunswick Electric Company
represents 87% of the entire Electric Fund expenditures for FY 2001-2011. When
you also factor in the expense of customer underground installation work that
the City pays BEMCO to perform, those three expense line items comprise 91% of
the Electric Fund expenditure budget for FY 2010-2011. Of the total $ 6,781,900
of proposed Electric Fund expenditures for FY 2010-2011, the purchase of power,
BEMCO maintenance contract and customer underground installation make up $
6,120,000. This leaves only $ 661,900 within the Fund for everything else
including proportional salaries and benefits, dues, vehicles, load management
program, capital outlays for improvements, meter reading expenses, etc. There
is an Assistant Public Services Director's position funded in the FY 2010-2011
Budget as the City would find itself in a very precarious position should the
services of the current Director be lost for any reason. Continued close
scrutiny must be paid to this Fund to continue to keep it fiscally responsible.
Further increases in the cost of purchasing electricity remain a possibility
and a concern as any increase in this expenditure significantly impacts this
Fund.
Revenue Outlook
The property tax rate of .18 cents based upon the current tax levy is expected
to generate $1,550,000. Property taxes comprise roughly 36% of the anticipated
General Fund revenue. No increase in the City of Southport property tax rate is
proposed in the FY 2010-2011 City of Southport Proposed Budget. The remainder
of General Fund revenues are comprised primarily from State-collected and
State-shared sources. Sales tax revenues are reflective of the condition of the
overall economy and should continue to be closely monitored. The Budget Officer
has very conservatively estimated anticipated sales tax revenues as the
volatility in the economy continues. Total sales tax receipts for FY 2010-2011
have been estimated at $ 625,000. This represents a decline of $ 25,000 from
current fiscal year budget level of $ 650,000 and a $ 95,000 decline from the
budgeted level in FY 2008-2009. This decline in anticipated sales tax revenues
is based upon the overall state of the economy and a desire by management to
budget conservatively in light of the lingering national recession and
unanticipated financial challenges it may present. Franchise taxes on power,
natural gas, cable television, and telecommunications make up another $ 275,000
in estimated revenue. It is through stable anticipated income from the status
of the local economy, retention of all net ABC operations profits, fees
generated from the use of public assets, a recommended increase in the local
Occupancy Tax along with the Board, management and staffs continued diligence
in conservative fiscal practices that the continued growth in expenses of
public service provision is accommodated in the proposed budget for FY 2010-
2011. There is no transfer from the unappropriated general fund balance
recommended to balance the proposed FY 2010-2011 Proposed Budget.
Departmental Budgets
General Fund
1)   General Administration: Administrative expenses are proposed at $ 706,900.
This figure represents an increase from last year's $ 466,350. The increase is
due to a new line item being added to the budget of this department to reflect
the first year of a 20 year payment plan on the new Fire Station. The first
payment for the financing of this project will be $ 241,000. The FY 2010-2011
City of Southport proposed budget currently reflects no salary increase in pay
for all employees.
2)   Police Department: The Police Department is budgeted at $ 927,050 this is
up slightly from $ 901,900 last year. The increase is largely due to the
expense associated with the provision of health insurance. The need for
continued vehicle replacements in this upcoming fiscal year and into the future
is being continued by again funding the Vehicle Replacement Plan. Under this
Plan, Police vehicles will be acquired via a public financing or lease purchase
program with an outside financial institution. This Plan is resulting in Police
vehicles that are more fuel efficient, last longer and require less maintenance
than the arrangement of purchasing used, former Highway Patrol cruisers.
3)   Planning, Inspections and Code Enforcement: This Department is budgeted at
$ 264,000 for FY 2010-2011. This represents a decrease of $ 71,200 over the
level of funding provided for FY 2010-2011. The decrease is due to the
elimination of $ 75,000 for a renovation to or a replacement of the Inspections
and Code Enforcement office building. In light of the Facilities Assessment/
Spatial Analysis to be performed on all of the City's buildings and the decline
in building and construction activity in the City, the Board and staff may wish
to further evaluate the necessity of this requested expenditure.
4)   Public Services: Total Public Services General Fund operations are
budgeted at
$ 652,550 which is broken down as follows:
a.   Public Services-Streets: $ 188,500
b.   Public Services - Sanitation: $ 98,500 (Includes specific expenses
associated with the collection of residential wastes and garbage)
c.   Public Services-Bldg. & Grounds: $ 197,700
d.   Public Services-Garage: $ 167,850
5)   Parks & Recreation: The Parks and Recreation Dept. reflects a decrease in
the funding level in comparison to FY 10-11. This decrease is due to the
completion of construction of Lowe-White Park and the renovation to the former
Senior Center on Atlantic Ave. in FY 2009-2010.
6)   Tourism: The Southport Tourism Department level of funding reflects a
slight decrease from that of FY 2010-2011 level. The replacement of a
department head and general belt tightening is to be credited for the decrease
within this department.
Water & Sewer Fund
The Water and Sewer fund of the City of Southport for FY 2010-2011 reflects a $
531,450 increase in funding level from that of FY 2010-2011. This is largely
due to the addition of the first repayment to the NC Clean Water Management
Trust Fund for the formerly targeted spray irrigation property. The first
payment will be in The amount of $ 562,000.
Electric Fund
The Electric Fund remains the single most expensive department for the City of
Southport to operate. The fund total for FY 2010-2011 is budgeted at $
6,781,900.
This amount reflects a very slight decrease from last year's funding level. As
a result of the cost of the provision of electric power coupled with an express
desire of the Board to pass on as little of an increase to City of Southport
customers as is possible, the Electric Fund departmental budget contains no
funding for any capital improvements or capital outlays for equipment or
service enhancements.
As stated earlier in this Message, continued diligence must be paid to this
Fund as the City must be mindful of the obligations and expenses associated
with the continued ownership of a public power enterprise.
Executive Summary
Based upon the goals and objectives established by the City of Southport Board
of Aldermen to maintain and enhance the quality of life for all of the citizens
of Southport, a conservative yet forward-looking budget and Capital Improvement
Plan has been drafted that solidifies the City's commitment to the provision of
and the improvement to high quality public services. Such provision and their
improvements, however, require adequate funding on the operational side while
maintaining a close scrutiny on balances and reserves. This budget proposal
strives to achieve that continued high level of public service provision while
maintaining current the level of the property tax and water and sewer and
electric rates and fees. Staff has proposed and recommends that the City of
Southport Board of Aldermen accept and implement the proposed municipal
operations budget for FY 2010-2011. Continued conservative management of the
City's finances is critical to the fiscal health of the City. In weighing the
goals, objectives, needs and expectations of the City of Southport and the
associated need for additional revenue, the current budget proposal, I believe,
strikes a balance that improves service levels while respecting the financial
health of the City government and its growing needs and objectives for years to
come.
Respectfully submitted,
M. Alan Thornton
City Manager
Rescue Squad- Neal Sage, Chief of the Rescue Squad explained the need for a new
ambulance with more demands being placed on the Rescue Squad. Cost of new
ambulance is $129,415. The Board was given a budget achievement and improvement
summary for 2009-2010 showing a reduction in the budget from previous years as
a result of initiatives put in place, eliminating unnecessary expenditures and
raising more monies in transport.
Budget Discussion
∙   Alderman Karn asked about police officer's salary, but noted that no pay
increases were reflected in the budget for any department.
∙   Alderman Karn noted that monies were not provided for the expense of the
Garrison House. He talked about the possibility of mold being in the facility.
City Manager Thornton stated the spatial needs study will identify building
concerns i.e. aging, upgrades and mold.
∙   Electric Fund- Mr. Thornton noted that the City will need to continue
building its reserves since no rate increase is proposed. Alderman Boguskie
referenced undergrounding cost, the need for pole replacements and street
repair. The Board talked maintenance of cemeteries, park restoration and
beautifying the town, realizing no monies were budgeted for capital
expenditures. City Manager Thornton stated if revenues come in and the economy
picks up, there may be additional working capital.
∙   Current occupancy tax is .03%; revenues will increase as a result of the
Wingate Inn. City Manager recommended increasing the occupancy tax by .02%,
however; the Board will need to appoint a Tourism Development Authority which
is a requirement of the local bill. He recommended the Board consider
appointing a Tourism Development Authority at the June meeting.
∙   Alderman Karn asked if Downtown Southport will receive $2,500 donation. Mr.
Thornton suggested that DSI submit a request which will be a Board decision.
∙   City fee structure was discussed and the need to revise the fee schedule.
∙   Mayor asked about purchasing used highway patrol vehicles vs. buying new
police cars.
∙   Board discussed the need for employees to drive City vehicles home.
Alderman Potter motioned effective July 1, 2010 to eliminate the practice of
employees taking city owned vehicles home with the exception of Public Safety/
Police Department and the assigned employee within Public Services that is
scheduled to be on call is to be determined by the City Manager. Motion
seconded by Alderman Poole, vote unanimous. Passed 5-0
∙   Manager noted budget reduction with one less employee for the sewer
treatment plant.
∙   Mayor Howard asked if city salaries were commensurate with other towns and
mentioned that the City Personnel Policy is being updated. City Manager
Thornton stated it does not include a salary study nor position
reclassification.
∙   The Board discussed a cost of living adjustment (COLA) for employees. Mayor
Howard discussed the need to bridge the divide between lower and higher paid
employees. The Board discussed giving employees a cost of living adjustment not
to exceed 2.5%. Consensus of the Board to direct the City Manager to look at
the budget and determine the cost to provide a 2.5% COLA.
∙   City Manager Thornton explained the need for an Assistant Public Works
Director which is included in the proposed budget.
∙   Mayor Howard referenced merging the Rescue Squad with the county and to
have a study performed on consolidation.
∙   The Associated Artists asked that Franklin Square Art Gallery be painted.
It was noted that the City owns the building and is responsible for
maintenance. It was Board consensus that the City Manager solicits quotes for
painting the Art Gallery.
∙   Board consensus to purchase a new computer for the City Clerk's office due
to the older system crashing.
Mayor Howard stated the next order of business was to discuss the performance
evaluation process for the Clerk and Manager. The Board recessed for lunch at
12:30 and the Manager and Clerk were excused.
(Mayor Howard to appoint a Board member to write minutes of closed session)
__________________________________
Mayor
____________________________
Clerk
JUNE 10, 2010
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
JUNE 10, 2010     6:00 P.M.
ALDERMAN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Robert Howard, Mayor
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Kenneth Karn, Ed Boguskie,
            Donnie Potter, Nelson Adams, Alderman Frink (Present at 6:45 p.m.)
ABSENT:         None
STAFF:         M. Alan Thornton, City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander, MMC, City Clerk
            Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
            Patty Miller, Director of Finance
            Amy Nelson, Director of Planning
            Ralph Cardwell, Director of Public Services
            Heather Hemphill, Director of Parks & Recreation
            Charles Drew, Code Enforcement Officer
            Jerry Dove, Chief of Police
            Neal Sage, Chief of Volunteer Rescue Squad
I.
Call to Order
Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:05 p.m. 
II.
Invocation
Alderman Boguskie welcomed the public and pronounced the invocation.
Ethics Statement
Mayor Howard asked “if any member of the Board knows of any conflict of
interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect to matters on
the agenda, to please state it at this time.”
III.
Approval of Minutes
Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to approve the minutes with a
correction under Section VI. Committee Reports: Tourism Committee , change the
name of John Pfohl to Jake Pfohl . Vote unanimous. Passed 5-0
IV.
Approval of Agenda
Alderman Karn requested Item L under section IX- New Business be removed from
the agenda. Alderman Poole asked that the performance evaluation of the City
Manager and a closed session be added under Section X- Other Business. Alderman
Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to approve the agenda with
amendments. Vote unanimous. Passed 5-0
V.
Public Comments
Mr. Woody Wilson, 502 Brunswick Street encouraged the Board to adopt a
resolution of opposition to the port.
Mr. Bert Felton, 230 Caswell Avenue encouraged the Board to move in opposition
to the port.
Mrs. Sandra Spencer of 410 West Brunswick Street thanked the Board for
completing Lowe-White Park and asked the City to work towards building Stevens
Park.
Mrs. Cornelia Rogers of 319 Atlantic Avenue discussed the need for recycling
with the City leading the way by performing a survey showing compliance/ non-
compliance with the new recycling laws.
Mayor Howard passed the gavel to Mayor Pro Tem Poole and addressed the audience
from the podium. He read a letter from Mr. Tom Eagar, CEO of the North Carolina
State Ports Authority, apologizing for inappropriate remarks. A letter was read
from Representative Iler to Mr. Tom Eagar recommending an Advisory Board be
appointed as well as a representative from this area to the State Ports
Authority Board.
Mayor Howard, speaking as a citizen of Southport stated his position on the
Port has been consistent. In order to have an impact on the Port, the City must
be included in the process and once information is known, the community can
take a position. If the City opposes or endorses the Port, the City will be
viewed as having taken a position. In evaluating all the circumstances; it is
his opinion that the Board should not take a position. If the City takes a
negative stance, it can change Southport’s position and the opportunities the
City may have to work in cooperation with Port authorities. He stated that
there are citizens on both sides of the issue and those that have taken a
position desire a town hall meeting with Port officials. The only way the City
can position itself to demand a meeting with Port Authority representatives is
to be a part of the process. He encouraged diplomacy in order to become a part
of the process.
(Mayor Howard was reseated at the dais)
VI.
Committee Reports
a)   Tourism Study Committee – Alderman Boguskie motioned, seconded by Alderman
Poole to extend the ninety (90) day time frame to an extra thirty (30) days.
Vote unanimous. Passed 5-0
b)   Yacht Basin Property Update: Mayor Howard reported additional information
was requested from the Bank representatives and it has been provided.
c)   Rescue Squad: Mayor Howard reported that he and the City Manager have been
working on the rescue squad financial and feasibility study and information
will be provided upon receipt.
d)   Sign Ordinance Task Force: Alderman Karn reported that the ordinance is
ready for adoption.
e)   Zoning Board of Adjustment:  Mayor Howard announced that Chris Maynor and
Jeff Ward applied for reappointment, but there are other vacancies and asked
that the Board be prepared to make appointments at the July meeting.
VII.
Departmental Reports
Reports in agenda packet
VIII.
Public Hearings
Alderman Boguskie motioned, seconded by Alderman Potter to enter Public
Hearing, vote carried. Passed 5-0
a)    Amendment of the City of Southport Unified Development Ordinance Article
2, Section 2.2 Definitions of Basic Terms
Ms. Nelson, City Planner stated the proposed change is to define electronic
gaming operations.
The owner of K & R Internet questioned whether or not the change affected
established businesses. Attorney Isenberg stated if the existing business was
grandfathered prior to adoption of the electronic gaming ordinance, the change
will not affect the business.
b)    Amendment of the City of Southport Unified Development Ordinance Article
2
Section 2-2, Definition of Basic Terms and Article 17. Regulations for Signs:
Section 17-4: On-Premise Signs.
Ms. Nelson stated the amendment includes free standing A- frame signs and A-
frames will be included in the definition for Sign, Freestanding and allowed
within zoning districts O-I, CBD, BD, HC in the regulations. If passed,
everyone that has an A-frame sign must get a permit.
Alderman Boguskie asked several questions for clarification on sign
regulations.
c)    City’s Proposed Operating Budget FY 2010-2011
There were no public comments.
Alderman Karn moved, seconded by alderman Boguskie to close the Public Hearing
and re-enter regular session, motion carried. Passed 5-0
(Alderman Frink present at 6:45 p.m.)
IX.
New Business
a)   Resolution to amend the Unified Development Ordinance Article 2, Section
2-2
Definitions of Basic Terms
Alderman Potter moved to adopt the resolution, seconded by Alderman Poole. The
vote was unanimous. Passed 6-0
RESOLUTION APPROVING TEXT AMENDMENT TO UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
THAT WHEREAS, the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance and other
land use ordinances that control land development within both the City’s
incorporated areas and within its extraterritorial area; and
WHEREAS, in order to promote the public health, safety and general welfare and
to promote the best interest of the city and community, it is necessary for the
Southport Board of Aldermen from time to time to consider appropriate
revisions, modifications and additions to the city’s land use ordinances; and
WHEREAS, the Planning Director has prepared and submitted to the Planning Board
a proposed amendment to Article 2 of the Southport Unified Development
Ordinance; and
WHEREAS, the Planning Board has considered this matter and has recommended that
this proposed amendment to the Unified Development Ordinance be approved; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to NC General Statutes and city ordinances, a public hearing,
properly noticed, was held on June 10, 2010, before the Board of Aldermen
regarding this issue; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen hereby finds that this proposed amendment to the
Unified Development Ordinance is consistent with the Southport CAMA Land Use
Plan; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that this amendment is reasonable
and in the public interest in that (i) an updated, more extensive definition of
this type of establishment is needed for the Unified Development Ordinance,
(ii) this amendment is necessary to promote orderly growth and development in
the Highway Business District, and (iii) this amendment is necessary to promote
the public safety and general welfare of the community by better defining
Electronic Gaming Operations in the City;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that the
attached amendment and addition to the Southport Unified Development Ordinance
is hereby approved and adopted.
This 10th day of June, 2010.
By:
/s/ Robert D. Howard
Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk
b)   Resolution to amend the UDO Article 2, Section 2-2 Definition of Basic
Terms and Article 17, Regulations for Signs, Section 17-4: On Premise Signs
Alderman Karn moved to adopt the resolution, seconded by Alderman Potter. The
vote was unanimous. Passed 6-0
RESOLUTION APPROVING TEXT AMENDMENT TO UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
THAT WHEREAS, the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance and other
land use ordinances that control land development within both the City’s
incorporated areas and within its extraterritorial area; and
WHEREAS, in order to promote the public health, safety and general welfare and
to promote the best interest of the city and community, it is necessary for the
Southport Board of Aldermen from time to time to consider appropriate
revisions, modifications and additions to the city’s land use ordinances; and
WHEREAS, the Planning Director has prepared and submitted to the Planning Board
proposed amendments to Articles 2 and 17 of the Southport Unified Development
Ordinance; and
WHEREAS, the Planning Board has considered these matters and has recommended
that these proposed amendments to the Unified Development Ordinance be
approved; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to N. C. General Statutes and city ordinances, a public
hearing, properly noticed, was held on June 10, 2010, before the Board of
Aldermen regarding these issues; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen hereby finds that these proposed amendments to
the Unified Development Ordinance are consistent with the Southport CAMA Land
Use Plan; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that these amendments are
reasonable and in the public interest in that (i) this signage use is not
properly addressed in the Unified Development Ordinance and should be, (ii)
these amendments are necessary to promote orderly growth and development in the
Central Business and Business Districts, and (iii) regulation of this use is
necessary to promote the public safety and general welfare of the community by
regulating the placement of A-frame signs in the City;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that the
attached amendment and addition to the Southport Unified Development Ordinance
is hereby approved and adopted.
This 10th day of June, 2010.
By:
/s/ Robert D. Howard
Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk
c)   Adoption of Proposed Budget FY 2010-2011
The Board discussed the merits of approving an Assistant Public Services
Director which is proposed in the FY 2010-2011 budget. Mayor Howard suggested
the position be placed on hold until needed.
Mr. Cardwell, Public Services Director justifying the request stated that City
facilities are not being maintained. The City needs a person that can develop a
Facilities Management Program which is required in order to apply for various
grants, maintain City facilities i.e. load management, sewer system, lift
sites, etc.
Other areas discussed:
·   Alderman Karn asked the Board to consider funding for way finding signs.
·   Alderman Adams asked if consideration had been given to making a donation
to the schools from ABC revenues. City Manager stated that the consideration
was to be based on ABC revenue projections but they have been decreased.
·   Mayor Howard asked that capital monies not be spent in VRS until a
feasibility study is performed and to insure availability of funds for a
document control system. Manager stated that appropriate funds are available to
begin a document control system program.
Alderman Boguskie motioned to adopt the budget FY 2010-2011 as recommended by
the City Manager, seconded by Alderman Karn. Discussion: Aldermen Adams, Frink
and Poole stated that they could not vote on the budget as presented and needed
further justification i.e. job description for the position. Alderman Karn
stated if the position is deleted, it can pose a problem because the City needs
a public facilities maintenance plan for its facilities. The votes were: 3
ayes, Aldermen Boguskie, Karn and Potter .  3 no votes, Aldermen Adams, Frink,
Poole. Mayor Howard voted no, breaking the tie. Motion failed 4-3
Alderman Poole motioned to approve the budget excluding the Assistant Public
Service Director, seconded by Alderman Frink. Discussion: Alderman Adams stated
the Board should establish criteria for the position when it decides to hire an
individual. Alderman Boguskie for clarification insured that no new positions
were in the budget and questioned the standby salary in the Fire Department’s
budget. Alderman Poole noted the budget can be amended. Alderman Karn
reiterated the importance of hiring an individual to be trained. The votes were
4 ayes, Aldermen Poole, Frink, Adams, and Potter. 2 noes, Aldermen Karn and
Boguskie. Passed 4-2
BUDGET ORDINANCE
FISCAL YEAR 2010-2011
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, assembled in
Regular Session on June 10, 2010 that the following revenues and expenditures,
together with certain restrictions and authorizations, are hereby adopted.
The following amounts are hereby appropriated for the operations of the City
government and its activities for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2010 and
ending June 30, 2011 as per detailed appropriate fund:
SECTION I
GENERAL FUND
A.    Revenues Anticipated
   Current Ad Valorem Taxes            1,580,000
   Prior Years Ad Valorem Taxes/Penalti28,000
   Motor Vehicle Property Taxes        40,000
   Local revenues                      512,500
   Accommodation Tax                   55,000
   ABC Distribution                    262,000
   State Shared Revenues/Grants/Refunds913,000
   Inter-fund reimbursements           30,500
   Fire District Fees                  602,500
   Appropriated Fund Balance           0
                                                    4,023,500
B    Appropriated Expenditures
   Board                               206,700
   Administration                      713,416
   Building & Grounds                  199,600
   Garage                              169,825
   Police                              943,607
   Fire                                602,500
   Code Enforcement                    268,679
   Rescue                              154,500
   Street                              190,913
   Recreation                          306,560
   Tourism                             168,700
   Solid Waste                         98,500
                                                    4,023,500
SECTION II
POWELL BILL
A.   Revenues Anticipated
   Powell Bill State Street Aid        95,000
   Interest Earned                     500
                                                    95,500
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
      Street Resurfacing            79,000
   O & M                               16,500
                                                    95,500
SECTION III
SOUTHPORT FIREMEN FUND
A.   Revenues Anticipated
   Southport Firemen Fund Receipts     10,050
                                                    10,050
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
   Southport Firemen Fund Expenses     10,050
                                                    10,050
SECTION IV
ELECTRIC FUND
A.   Revenues Anticipated
   Sale of Electricity                 6,290,000
    Service Charges & Other Revenues  491,900
   Appropriated Fund Balance           0
                                                    6,781,900
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
   Operation & Maintenance             6,781,900
                                                    6,781,900
SECTION V
WATER & SEWER FUND
A.   Revenues Anticipated
   Water/Sewer Sales                   2,013,900
   Impact & Tap Fees                   107,500
   Other Revenues                      4,000
   Appropriated Fund Balance           410,500
                                                    2,535,900
B.   Expenditures Authorized
   Operation & Maintenance             2,535,900
                                                    2,535,900
GRAND TOTAL                                         $13,446,850
 
SECTION VI
TAX RATE ESTABLISHED
An Ad Valorem rate of eighteen (.18) cents per $100.00 full valuation is hereby
established as the official tax rate for the City of Southport for the fiscal
year 2010-2011. This is based on an estimated valuation of approximately
$925,751,174 with an estimated collection rate of ninety-five percent (95.00%).
SECTION VII
SPECIAL AUTHORIZATION - BUDGET OFFICER
The Budget Officer shall be authorized to reallocate departmental
appropriations among the various objects of expenditure and interdepartmental
transfers as said officer believes necessary. The Budget Officer shall be
authorized to effect inter-fund transfers, not to exceed $1,500.00. Notation of
such reallocation and transfers shall be made to the Board on the next
succeeding financial report.
SECTION VIII
RESTRICTION - BUDGET OFFICER
The inter-fund transfer of monies exceeding $1,500.00 shall be accomplished by
Board authorization only. The utilization of any contingency appropriation
shall be accomplished only with Board authorization.
SECTION IX
UTILIZATION OF BUDGET & BUDGET ORDINANCE
This Ordinance and the Budget Document shall be the basis of the financial plan
for the City of Southport municipal government during the 2010-2011 Fiscal
Year. The Budget Officer shall administer the budget and shall ensure that
operation officials are provided guidance and sufficient details to implement
their appropriate portion of the Budget. The accounting section shall establish
records which are in agreement with the budget and this ordinance and the
appropriate statues of the State of North Carolina.
Copies of the Budget Ordinance shall be furnished to the Finance Director and
the City Manager of the City of Southport, to be kept on file by them for their
direction in the disbursement of funds.
SECTION X
ADOPTION
Copies of this Budget Ordinance shall be furnished to all appropriate officials
of the municipality and kept on file for the proper recordation of receipts and
disbursement of funds.
All Passed by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport upon proper motion
of Alderman Poole seconded by Alderman Frink. This the 10th of June, 2010. The
vote of the Board was recorded as 4 yes, 2 no, 0 absent.
DULY ADOPTED, on this the 10th day of June, 2010
/s/ Robert D. Howard
Mayor Robert D. Howard
Attest:    
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk to the Board of Aldermen
d)   Request to Amend City Ordinance to Allow Chickens within the City
Mayor   Howard stated the Planning Board and staff recommended no ordinance
change to allow chickens within the City.
e)   Budget Amendments – FY 2009/2010
City Manager Thornton presented the following year end budget amendments to
keep in line with a balanced budget. Alderman Potter motioned for approval
seconded by Alderman Karn, vote carried. Passed 6-0
Budget Amendment # 8
Fiscal Year 2009-2010
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session June 10, 2010, that the following Budget Amendment
be adopted to adjust departmental line items that were over or under budget and
from funding of revenue increase in Rescue Collections & Police Revenue from
Grant Proceeds
General Fund
                                        Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section I
A.   Revenues Anticipated
      Rescue Collections          14,000           180,980
      Police Grant Proceeds)      12,000           980,533
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
   See Attached for other Department
Adjustments
 
ADOPTED this the 10th day of June, 2010
/s/ Robert D. Howard
Mayor
Attest:
Regina W. Alexander
Clerk to the Board of Aldermen
Budget Amendment # 9
Fiscal Year 2009-2010
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session June 10, 2010, that the following Budget Amendment
be adopted for funding of professional fees expense from water/sewer sales
revenues.
 
Water Sewer Fund
                                          Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section V
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
      See Attached Department Adjustments
 
ADOPTED this the 10th day of June, 2010
/s/ Robert D. Howard
Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk to the Board of Aldermen
Budget Amendment # 10
Fiscal Year 2009-2010
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session June 10, 2010, that the following Budget Amendment
be adopted to adjust departmental line items that were over or under budget.
 
Electric Fund
                                          Budget Amendment Budget As Amended
Section IV
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
      See Attached Department Adjustments
 
ADOPTED this the 10th day of June, 2010
/s/ Robert D. Howard 
Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk to the Board of Aldermen
f)    Consideration of Resolution to discuss the establishment of a Tourism
Development Authority
It was the consensus of the Board to hold a workshop on establishing a Tourism
Development Authority i.e. membership and composition. In accordance with
requirements of General Statutes160A-215, and local HB 1668 a Tourism
Development Authority must be appointed to consider increasing the occupancy
tax.
g)   City of Southport Water Shortage Response Plan
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Potter to adopt the resolution
approving the Water Shortage Response Plan which was created by the state for
public water distribution systems. Vote carried. Passed 6-0
Resolution for Approving Water Shortage Response Plan
WHEREAS,  North Carolina General Statute 143-355(l) requires that each unit of
local government that provides public water services or plans to provide such
services shall either individually or together with other such units of local
government, prepare and submit a Water Shortage Response Plan; and
WHEREAS, as required by the statute and in the interests of sound local
planning, a Water Shortage Response Plan for the City of Southport has been
developed and submitted to the Board of Aldermen for approval; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen finds that the Water Shortage Plan is in
accordance with the provisions of North Carolina General Statute 143-355 (l)
and that it will provide appropriate guidance for the future management of
water supplies for Southport as well as useful information to the Department of
Environment and Natural Resources for the development of a state water supply
plan as required by statute;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport that the Water Shortage Response Plan entitled, Water Shortage
Response Plan dated June 10, 2010 is hereby approved and shall be submitted to
the Department of Environment and Natural Resources, Division of Water
Resources; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Board of Aldermen intends that this plan shall
be revised to reflect changes in relevant data and projections at least once
every five years or as otherwise requested by the Department, in accordance
with the statute and sound planning practice.
This the 10th day of June 2010
/s/ Robert D. Howard
Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk
Water Shortage Response Plan
City of Southport, North Carolina
May 24, 2010
The procedures herein are written to reduce potable water demand and supplement
existing drinking water supplies whenever existing water supply sources are
inadequate to meet current demands for potable water.
I.    Authorization
The Southport City Manager shall enact the following water shortage response
provisions whenever the trigger conditions outlined in Section IV are met. In
his absence, the Public Services Director will assume this role.
Mr. M. Alan Thornton
Southport City Manager
Phone: (910) 457-7988
E-mail:alan_thorton@southportnc.org
Mr. Ralph Cardwell
Southport Public Services Director
Phone: (910) 457-7936
E-mail: ralph_cardwell@southportnc.org
II.    Notification
The following notification methods will be used to inform water system
employees and customers of a water shortage declaration: employee e-mail
announcements, notices at municipal buildings, notices in water bills. Required
water shortage response measures will be communicated through PSA announcements
on local radio, cable stations and on the City website (http://
www.cityofsouthport.com). Declaration of emergency water restrictions or water
rationing will be communicated to all customers by telephone through use of
reverse 911.
III.    Levels of Response
Five levels of water shortage response are outlined in the table below. The
five levels of water shortage response are: voluntary reductions, mandatory
reductions I and II, emergency reductions and water rationing. A detailed
description of each response level and corresponding water reduction measures
follow below.
 
Stage Response                Description
                              Water users are encouraged to reduce their water
1     Voluntary Reductions    use and improve water use efficiency; however, no
                              penalties apply for noncompliance. Water supply
                              conditions indicate a potential for shortage.
                              Water users must abide required water use
                              reduction and efficiency measures; penalties
2     Mandatory Reductions I  apply for noncompliance. Water supply conditions
                              are significantly lower than the seasonal norm
                              and water shortage conditions are expected to
                              persist.
3     Mandatory Reductions II Same as in Stage 2
                              Water supply conditions are substantially
4     Emergency Reductions    diminished and pose an imminent threat to human
                              health or environmental integrity.
                              Water supply conditions are substantially
5     Water Rationing         diminished and remaining supplies must be
                              allocated to preserve human health and
                              environmental integrity.
 
In Stage 1, Voluntary Reductions, all water users will be asked to reduce their
normal water use by 5%. Customer education and outreach programs will encourage
water conservation and efficiency measures including: irrigating landscapes a
maximum of one inch per week; preventing water waste, runoff and watering
impervious surfaces; watering plants deeply to encourage root growth; washing
only full loads in clothes and dishwashers; using spring-loaded nozzles on
garden hoses; and identifying and repairing all water leaks.
In Stage 2, Mandatory Reductions I, all customers are expected to reduce their
water use by 10% in comparison to their previous month’s water bill. In
addition to continuing to encourage all voluntary reduction actions, the
following restrictions apply: irrigation is limited to a half inch per week
between 8PM and 8AM; outdoor use of drinking water for washing impervious
surfaces is prohibited; and all testing and training purposes requiring
drinking water (e.g. fire protection) will be limited.
In Stage 3, Mandatory Reductions II, customers must continue actions from all
previous stages and further reduce water use by 20% compared to their previous
month’s water bill. All non-essential uses of drinking water are banned and
garden and landscape irrigation must be reduced to the minimum amount necessary
for survival. Additionally, in Stage 3, a drought surcharge of 1.5 times the
normal water rate applies.
In Stage 4, Emergency Reductions, customers must continue all actions from
previous stages and further reduce their water use by 25% compared to their
previous month’s water bill. A ban on all use of drinking water except to
protect public health and safety is implemented and drought surcharges increase
to 2 times the normal water rate.
The goal of Stage 5, Water Rationing, is to provide drinking water to protect
public health (e.g. residences, residential health care facilities and
correctional facilities). In Stage 5, all customers are only permitted to use
water at the minimum required for public health protection. Firefighting is the
only allowable outdoor water use and pickup locations for distributing potable
water will be announced according to Southport’s Emergency Response Plan.
Drought surcharges increase to 5 times the normal water rate.
IV.    Triggers
Southport is provided water by purchase from the Brunswick County. When
Brunswick County declares a water shortage Southport is required to do so as
well. During this time Southport Public Services Director will stay in close
contact with Brunswick County and follow their triggers.
Return to Normal
When water shortage conditions have abated and the situation is returning to
normal, water conservation measures employed during each phase should be
decreased in reverse order of implementation. Permanent measures directed
toward long-term monitoring and conservation should be implemented or continued
so that the community will be in a better position to prevent shortages and
respond to recurring water shortage conditions.
V.    Enforcement
The provisions of the water shortage response plan will be enforced by City of
Southport Public Services department and police personnel. Violators may be
reported to the City’s dedicated water conservation hotline. Citations are
assessed according to the following schedule depending on the number of prior
violations and current level of water shortage.
 
Water Shortage Level First Violation Second Violation Third Violation
Voluntary Reductions N/A             N/A              N/A
 
Mandatory Reductions (Stages 2 and 3) Warning $250 Discontinuation of Service
 
Emergency Reductions $250 Discontinuation of Service Discontinuation of Service
 
Water Rationing $500 Discontinuation of Service Discontinuation of Service
 
Drought surcharge rates are effective in Stages 3, 4 and 5.
VI.    Public Comment
Customers will have multiple opportunities to comment on the provisions of the
water shortage response plan. First, a draft plan will be will be available at
City Hall for customers to view. A notice will be included in customer water
bill notifying them of such. Also a draft plan will be published on the city
website.  All subsequent revisions to the draft plan will be published at least
30 days prior to an adoption vote by Southport’s City Aldermen.
VII.    Variance Protocols
Applications for water use variance requests are available from the City Public
Services Office. All applications must be submitted to the Public Services
Office for review by the Public Services Director or his or her designee. A
decision to approve or deny individual variance requests will be determined
within two weeks of submittal after careful consideration of the following
criteria: impact on water demand, expected duration, alternative source
options, social and economic importance, purpose (i.e. necessary use of
drinking water) and the prevention of structural damage.
VIII.    Effectiveness
The effectiveness of the Southport water shortage response plan will be
determined by comparing the stated water conservation goals with observed water
use reduction data. Other factors to be considered include frequency of plan
activation, any problem periods without activation, total number of violation
citations, desired reductions attained and evaluation of demand reductions
compared to the previous year’s seasonal data.
IX.    Revision
The water shortage response plan will be reviewed and revised as needed to
adapt to new circumstances affecting water supply and demand, following
implementation of emergency restrictions, and at a minimum of every five years
in conjunction with the updating of our Local Water Supply Plan. Further, a
water shortage response planning work group will review procedures following
each emergency or rationing stage to recommend any necessary improvements to
the plan to Southport’s City Aldermen. The City of Southport Public Services
Director is responsible for initiating all subsequent revisions.
h)    Discussion of Southport Facilities Assessment/Spatial Analysis
City Manager Thornton stated out of nine (9) proposals, three (3) companies
were selected for interviews. He recommended John Sawyer Architects based on
their bid and experience.  Alderman Boguskie motioned to accept the Manager’s
recommendation and authorized execution of the contract, seconded by Alderman
Frink. Vote unanimous. Passed 6-0 (Copy of Contract on file in the Clerk’s
Office)
i)    Discussion of Southport’s Annexation Initiative
City Manager Thornton stated staff recommended the firm of Benchmark, CMR
consulting services to re-examine the annexation areas along North Howe Street/
NC 211. Alderman Karn motioned to accept the Manager’s recommendation, seconded
by Alderman Poole. Vote unanimous. Passed 6-0
j)    Discussion of Southport’s Petition Regarding the Proposed Port
Alderman Karn motioned to adopt a resolution opposing construction and
operation of the proposed International Port based on the communication and
lack of a response from State Port representatives to hold public meetings in
the City. Mayor Howard ruled the motion out of order due to the lack of
notification to Board members and the public that a resolution would be placed
on the floor for a vote, and asked that it be put on the July agenda. Alderman
Karn appealed the Mayor’s decision stating that any member of the Board can
make a motion, and since it is procedural, the Board can decide by vote to
consider the motion.
Alderman Karn then placed a motion on the floor to appeal the Mayor’s ruling,
seconded by Alderman Boguskie. 5 ayes, Aldermen Karn, Boguskie, Poole, Potter
and Frink, 1 no, Alderman Adams. Passed 5-1
Alderman Potter asked to be recused from voting on the Port due to the advice
of legal counsel and his employment. Alderman Boguskie motioned to recuse
Alderman Potter, seconded by Alderman Karn; the vote of approval was unanimous.
Passed 6-0
Alderman Karn restated the motion that the Board of Aldermen approves a
resolution opposing the construction and operation of the N.C. International
Terminal at Southport, seconded by Alderman Boguskie.  Discussion: Alderman
Adams cautioned the Board about changing its position from in favor, to neutral
and now against. He cited potential jobs that the Port could bring, and that
there are many residents in the City who supports the Port. He stated if a
resolution is adopted opposing the Port, he believes that it will be a dire
decision. Alderman Frink stated that it is too early for the City to take a
position. Alderman Poole stated her vote is not against the Port, but there are
other ways to bring in jobs. The votes were: 3 ayes, Aldermen Karn, Boguskie
and Poole. 1 no, Alderman Adams, 1 abstention, Alderman Frink, Alderman Potter
was recused from the vote. Motion passed 4-1. (Alderman Frink abstention
counted as an affirmative vote)
k)    Discussion of Citizen Access to Members of the Board of Aldermen
Alderman Karn referenced a letter from a citizen asking that Aldermen make
themselves available through office hours. He asked that it be placed on the
agenda for discussion. It was a consensus that this should not be a Board
policy but individual decisions.
Alderman Poole recommended the Board hold town hall meetings at different
locations in the City to be accessible to the citizens. Mayor Howard asked
Alderman Poole to work with him on this and they will bring it back to the
Board.
l)    Removed from the agenda
m)    Proposed Contract for Audit Services
Alderman Karn motioned, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to approve the audit
contract with Berry, Padgett and Chandler giving the City Manager the authority
to execute same for July 1, 2010 through June 30, 2010. Discussion: Mayor
Howard pointed out that it is customary and appropriate for the Board to
execute this particular contract. Attorney Isenberg commented that it was
acceptable for the City Manager to sign if granted authority by the Board. The
vote of approval was unanimous. Passed 6-0 (Contract on file in the Clerk and
Finance Office)
n)    Tax Releases
Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Potter to approve tax releases. Vote
unanimous.  Passed 6-0
Mark Palmatier   2009   $616.08   $323,533 (value released)   incorrect boat
value
Edward Schrum   2009   15.89      8,358            boat kept at Oak Island
X.
Other Business
a)    Beautification Committee, Mayor asked each member to appoint a citizen to
serve on the Beautification Committee. Nominees will be provided to the Clerk
and a list presented at the next meeting.
b)     Mayor Howard asked the Board to consider some rules of procedures and
provided each member with a book by A. Fleming Bell, II, of the School of
Government titled “Suggested Rules of Procedure for a City Council, 3rd Edition
and requested it be placed on the July agenda.
c)    City Manager Thornton confirmed that the mosquito spraying for this
summer is in place.
d)   Code of Ethics Model Policy, Clerk will provide a copy to the Board for
review and comments.
e)   Chamber of Commerce, Mayor Howard informed the Board that the Chamber of
Commerce/4th of July Committee requested a financial donation. Alderman
Boguskie noted the City expended $21,558 last year between the Police and
Public Services Department. No action taken on the request.
f)    Hurricane Preparedness, Mayor Howard for information stated that the City
will host an emergency preparedness meeting and the Emergency Operations Center
will be located at the new fire station.
g)    Performance Evaluations, Alderman Poole reported the evaluations have
been compiled.
XI.
City Manager Comments - None
XII.
Board Comments
Alderman Karn suggested that the Board review the City’s retirement benefit
policy. City Manager Thornton stated policies i.e. personnel are currently
under review for modification and will be presented to the Board.
Alderman Potter presented the following letter of resignation:
10 June 2010
Honorable Mayor
Fellow Board Members and Staff
Citizens and Friends
1.   Serving the citizens of Southport has been an honor and pleasure. I have
been overwhelmed by the support of the community and the hospitality of the
City staff. I am very proud of the progress this Board and staff have made and
applaud their continued commitment to Southport
2.   I have volunteered for temporary duty outside of the Wilmington area on a
tour that could last one year or longer. As the business of running this City
continues, the uncertainty associated with this assignment will render me
ineffective in the role of Alderman. Because of this action, it is with a heavy
heart that I submit my resignation from the position of Alderman for the City
of Southport effective 12 June 2010.
3.   I want to thank everyone that made this experience possible and especially
Vickie and Josh for their support past, present and future as I refocus my
service elsewhere. To maintain stability on the Board, I would like to
recommend that Vickie be considered to fill this term. I am confident she will
be a diligent public servant and serve this community well.
Respectfully,
/s/ Donnie
Donnie Potter
Mayor stated his appreciation to Alderman Potter for his service to the City.
Alderman Karn moved to accept the resignation of Alderman Potter, seconded by
Alderman Boguskie. The vote of approval was unanimous . Motion passed 6-0
Mayor Howard stated that it was not known that Alderman Potter would be
resigning at this meeting and asked the Board to consider how they wished to
proceed in appointing a replacement, and to consider Alderman Potter’s
recommendation at that time.
Alderman Boguskie motioned to accept Alderman Potter’s recommendation, seconded
by Alderman Karn. Discussion: Alderman Adams stated that he was not aware of
the resignation and it is not fair to the citizens to appoint an individual
without prior notice and the Board should discuss the matter. He acknowledged
respect for both individuals but could not support Ms. Potter at this time.
Alderman Frink asked Attorney Isenberg if there was a procedural policy on the
books pertaining to matters such as this. Attorney Isenberg stated if a motion
is made; the Board can appoint anyone to fill a vacancy. Mayor Howard stated
his respect for the Potters and voiced concern about the inappropriateness of
rushing into a decision. The votes were 4 ayes, Aldermen Poole, Karn, Boguskie
and Potter, 1 abstention, Alderman Frink. 1 no, Alderman Adams . Motion passed
5-1
Alderman Poole noted that Caviness Park and the cemeteries need some work.
Recess – 9:10 p.m.
Alderman Boguskie motioned, seconded by Alderman Potter to recess the meeting
until Monday, June 14, 2010 at 7:00 p.m. Motion carried unanimously.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------
JUNE 14, 2010
Recessed Session
 
Recessed Session Board of Aldermen
June 14, 2010    7:00 p.m.
 
Present:         Robert Howard, Mayor
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Nelson Adams, Ed Boguskie, Jwantana
Frink,
            Ken Karn and Vickie Potter
Absent:         Alan Thornton, City Manager (Excused by the Board)
            Regina W. Alexander, City (Excused by the Board)
I.
Call to Order
Mayor Howard reconvened the meeting at 7:00 p.m.
II.
Invocation
Mayor Howard delivered the invocation.
III.
Business
Mayor Howard administered the Oath of Office to newly appointed member, Vickie
Potter. (Oath incorporated as official part of the minutes – Attachment 31)
Mayor Howard appointed Mayor Pro Tem Poole Deputy Clerk in the absence of Mrs.
Alexander.
IV.
Executive Session
Alderman Adams made a motion to go into executive session for the purpose of
conducting the City Manager’s performance evaluation. Alderman Karn seconded
the motion and the vote was unanimous.
V.
Regular Session Reconvened
Alderman Boguskie made a motion to re-enter regular session, seconded by
Alderman Karn, the vote was unanimous.
Mayor Howard stated that no decision was made during the executive session and
that all members had input. After discussion, there was a consensus of the
Board to continue with another session on Monday, 28 June 2010 at 5:30 p.m.
The wording of the Resolution in Opposition to the Port was discussed. Alderman
Karn made a motion to accept the wording as is now signed, seconded by Alderman
Boguskie. The votes in favor were, Aldermen Karn, Boguskie, Poole and Potter.
Opposed, Aldermen Adams and Frink.
Resolution in Opposition to the Construction Of the North Carolina
International Terminal next to the City of Southport, NC
WHEREAS, the North Carolina State Port Authority has failed, despite numerous
requests, to meet with the citizens and Aldermen of Southport in a public
setting to provide information and answer questions about the proposed Port,
and
WHEREAS, the economic benefits of the proposed Port to Southport, Brunswick
County and the State of North Carolina have been grossly exaggerated and
discredited by a number of authorities, and
WHEREAS, this development will create serious problems related to public
safety, traffic congestion, reduction in tourism, and adverse environmental
impacts, and
WHEREAS, the cost to taxpayers for this project will exceed two (2) billion
dollars at a time when government resources are scarce and the shipping
industry is at a historical low point, and
WHEREAS, competitive ports in Charleston, SC, Savannah, Ga and Hampton Roads,
Va. have approved expansion projects, existing infrastructure and natural deep
water harbors, and
WHEREAS, the majority of the citizens of Southport are opposed to the proposed
port, and
WHEREAS, government officials want to know if the local municipalities are in
favor of or opposed to the proposed Port
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, THAT THE City of Southport is opposed to the
construction and operation of the proposed container shipping terminal, named
the North Carolina International Terminal next to the City of Southport.
This resolution was adopted by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport
at its regularly scheduled meeting held on June 10, 2010
/s/ Mary Ellen Watts Poole
Mayor Pro Tem
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
City Clerk
Mayor Howard read the following statement into the record:
I want to discuss with you a couple of issues. Actually both are
interconnected. First deals with the execution of the Port resolution and
second with the Thursday night surprises.
I first want to preference my remarks by saying I respect each member of the
board as an individual and most importantly because our citizens chose you to
lead our city, and this fact should not be overlooked or forgotten.
It became apparent as the June 10th meeting progressed that four members were
working from a different agenda than the approved agenda that the other three
were using. The "Shock & Awe" hidden agenda items just seemed to keep coming
and that is regretful for board member relations and for public confidence in
their City Government.
I never dreamed that we, as a board, would experience intended agenda
misrepresentations or a forced action concealed from segments of the public and
a portion of board members elected by the public. This type activity is what
some of you accused your predecessors in office of.
As disappointed as I am, your actions are technically within your purview, but
that's as far I believe them to be. Since this group (of board members)
controls the voting majority on selected substantive issues, it’s puzzling as
to why bmp's (best management practices) were not considered and implemented.
You could have accomplished you objective while maintaining transparency. The
manner in which you unilaterally placed Mrs. Potter on this Board has put a
cloud over her service as an alderman in what appears to be board control
perpetuation. You could have attained the same end result, unless you felt it
would not hold up under public scrutiny. It’s simply inappropriate for Mrs.
Potter to take office under suspicion maneuvering techniques. It’s embarrassing
to me as a member of this Board.
While I don't hold myself out, I made a promise when I asked our citizens to
vote for me as their Mayor. My commitment displayed on the side of our campaign
truck, in our advertising & in every speech was “transparency experience
commitment solutions integrity”. The signing of the Resolution and the way it
came about simply does not meet these standards.
Because of the tactics in which the Resolution came about, the unverified
assertions and character assassinations, I am yielding, in this one incident,
to our Mayor Pro Tem for the execution of this resolution.
V.
Adjournment
Alderman Boguskie motioned to recess the meeting until 28 June 2010 at 5:30
p.m., Alderman Karn seconded the motion and the vote was unanimous.
JUNE 28, 2010
Recessed Session
 
Recessed Session Board of Aldermen
June 28, 2010    5:30 p.m.
 
Present:         Robert Howard, Mayor
            Mary Ellen Poole, Mayor Pro Tem
            Aldermen Nelson Adams, (Present at 5:40 p.m.)
            Ed Boguskie
            Jwantana Frink, (Present at
            Ken Karn and Vickie Potter
Mayor Howard called the meeting back to order at 5:30 p.m.
City Attorney Isenberg addressed the board regarding the question which had
arisen concerning the validity of the appointment of Aldermen Vickie Potter on
June 10. Isenberg stated that he had reviewed state law, the city charter and
section 2-61 of the Code of Ordinances, and that he had also conferred with the
Institute of Government. Based upon his review of the law and consultation with
the Institute, Isenberg stated that in his opinion the appointment of Mrs.
Potter was legal and the City had complied with all legal requirements for the
appointment.
Mayor Howard read the following statement into the record:
“Mr. Potter told me during a breakfast meeting several weeks earlier that he
may resign at some point in time due to job commitments. At that time he
stressed that a decision had not been made and asked me to hold that
information in confidence. I respected his request for confidentiality. He did
mention to me that if he decided to resign he wanted to recommend his wife to
fill his unexpired term and asked for my support. I told Mr. Potter, that while
I have much respect for him and Mrs. Potter that I could not commit to his
request for support prior to going through an open dialog with the Board
members and constituent involvement. I suggested that the filling of Aldermen
positions was a Board decision after receiving public input.
It was and continues to be my feeling that because our citizens just identified
their choices for the Board during an election only several months ago, the
results of that election should be one of the considering factors. During the
November election only 38 votes separated three candidates for two seats.
Clearly in respect for our citizens this fact should have been given
consideration. Additionally their action places Mrs. Potter in the position of
being the only Alderman that has not received public scrutiny or input; truly
an injustice to those we represent.”
(City Manager and Clerk excused by the Board at 5:50 p.m.)
Mayor Howard appointed Mayor Pro Tem Poole to serve as Deputy Clerk.
Executive Session 5:46 p.m.
Alderman Boguskie motioned to enter executive session to continue the
performance evaluations of the City Manager, seconded by Alderman Poole. The
vote was unanimous.
Regular Session Reconvened – 7:20 p.m.
Alderman Frink made the motion to come out of executive session, seconded by
Alderman Karn. Motion carried with unanimous vote. Once back in session Mayor
Howard stated that the composite evaluation was completed and the next step is
to meet with the City Manager.
Business
Mayor Howard stated that he had one more issue. He referenced an e mail that he
had received from Mr. Randy Jones concerning health insurance issues. A copy of
the e mail had been provided to each member at the beginning of the meeting.
Discussion followed with Alderman Karn making a motion to authorize the City
Attorney and City Manager to discuss the issue with Mr. Jones. The motion was
seconded by Alderman Adams. The motion carried unanimously.
Alderman Boguskie made a motion to adjourn the meeting. Alderman Karn seconded
the motion. Motion was unanimous. Meeting adjourned at 7:25 P.M.
__________________________
Mayor
________________________________
City Clerk
(Minutes of Recessed Sessions June 14 & 28th written by Mayor Pro Tem Poole)
JULY 8, 2010
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
JULY 8, 2010      6:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, NC
 
PRESENT:         Robert Howard, Mayor
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Kenneth Karn, Ed Boguskie,
            Vickie Potter, Nelson Adams (Present 6:45 p.m.), Jwantana Frink
ABSENT:         None
STAFF:         M. Alan Thornton, City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander, MMC, City Clerk
            Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
            Amy Nelson, Director of Planning
            Ralph Cardwell, Director of Public Services
            Heather Hemphill, Director of Parks & Recreation
            Jerry Dove, Chief of Police
            Neal Sage, Chief of Volunteer Rescue Squad
I.
Call to Order
Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:02 p.m. and welcomed everyone.
II.
Invocation
Mayor Howard pronounced the invocation.
Ethics Statement: Mayor Howard asked "if any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please state it at this time."
III.
Approval of Minutes - May 22, 2010 Special Meeting
June 10, 2010 Regular and recessed meetings
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to approve the minutes from
May 22 special meeting, June 10 regular and recessed sessions. The vote was
unanimous.
IV.
Approval of Agenda
Alderman Poole moved to approve the agenda with the following amendments,
seconded by Alderman Karn, vote unanimous. (IX-g Ethics Policy for Board of
Aldermen and IX-h Southport Historical Society proposal to install cannons at
Fort Johnston)
V.
Public Comments
Mayor Howard thanked staff i.e. fire and rescue for their work during the 4th
of July. He recognized Michael Daley, employee with the Street, Water and Sewer
Department for becoming a U.S. citizen during the naturalization ceremony on
Sunday, July 4, 2010.
Mr. Larry Maisel representing the Southport Historical Society asked the Board
to submit a proposal by the Historical Society to the N. C. Division of
Archives and History to determine whether four replica 10" Columbiad cannons
fits into the permitted uses for the Fort Johnston property, and if so, that
the Board of Aldermen approve the project and allow the Historical Society to
install the cannons under the supervision of the City, which is independent of
the other proposal to establish a museum within the Garrison House.
Several citizens addressed the Board in reference to a letter merchants and
business owners received about enforcement of Article 17, Section 17-4 of the
City's Unified Development Ordinance establishing regulations for signs and
removal of obstructions.
Mr. Alan Pascucci, owner of Timeless Treasures, stated A frame signs can be a
public safety hazard and cited other obstructions in the city that can create
safety hazards i.e. tree limbs, sidewalks and man hole covers.
Kathy Aiken, owner of Old Elegance Antiques at 120 East Moore Street encouraged
the Board to reconsider removing the obstructions.
Kendall Crews, owner of Cape Fear Copper Shop, stated the A frame signs were
the issue and the letter addressed obstructions.
Nancy Anderson, 174 Countryside Drive, Supply, owner of Duck, Duck Goose Shop
in Southport, stated that she has a bench in front of her business and asked
the Board to allow benches and planters as long as they do not prohibit
handicap accessibility.
Carol Baker, Waterfront Gifts, 117 So. Howe Street voiced concerns about
vendors coming in for the 4th of July and setting up earlier than they were
suppose to which blocked traffic and business access. She asked that this issue
be addressed.
Ernest Long, owner of Bull Frog Corner, 101 E. Moore Street stated that the
benches in front of his store are a public convenience to customers and not a
public nuisance.
Marilyn Rehder, owner of Watertown Hair, 109 N. Howe Street, stated the City
should be welcoming people and the benches are needed.
Mayor Howard assured the merchants that the Board would consider their
concerns.
VI.
Committee Reports
a)   Traffic & Transportation Committee - Alderman Boguskie provided the Board
with a written report from June 29 meeting. Rivermist asked the City to accept
their roads which were constructed to City standards. DOT will replace the
light at Hwy 87 and 211, but at present it is not funded. The City has been
approached by Marina Village Condo Association to take Marina View Drive into
the City but the road was not constructed to City standards and there is not
sufficient width to meet right of way requirements, and the Transportation
Traffic Committee does not recommend this action.
b)   Beautification Committee - The following persons were appointed upon
motion of Alderman Boguskie, seconded by Alderman Frink. No discussion, the
vote of approval was unanimous. Passed 6-0 (Term of office 2 years)
      Marjorie Jones      Roy Pender      Cheryl Daniels
      Diane Sloan      Gloria Jones      Patrice Frink
      Judy Gordon      Pete Frandano
c)   Zoning Board of Adjustment - Alderman Karn motioned, seconded by Alderman
Boguskie to reappoint Jeff Ward for a two-year term as a City representative,
to recommended Chris Maynor for a two-year term from the ETJ to the County
Board of Commissioners, and appoint Harley Lemons to a three-year term as a
City representative. The vote of approval was unanimous. Passed 6-0 (City and
ETJ alternate positions remain open on the Board of Adjustments)
VII.
Departmental Reports
Reports in agenda packet
VIII.
Public Hearing
a)   Amendment to the City of Southport Unified Development Ordinance Article
8. Nonconforming Situation, Section 8-2 Nonconforming Lots
Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to go into Public Hearing, vote
unanimous. Passed 6-0
Amy Nelson, City Planner stated the amendment allows one who has multiple lots
to take footage away from a conforming lot and add to another to make it
conforming.
No public comments. Alderman Boguskie motioned, seconded by Alderman Poole to
close the public hearing and re-enter regular session. Vote unanimous. Passed
6-0
IX.
New Business
a)   Consideration of Resolution to amend the City of Southport Unified
Development Ordinance Article 8, Section 8-2 Non-Conforming Lots
Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to approve the resolution
to amend the City of Southport Unified Development Ordinance Article 8, Section
8-2 Non-conforming Lots. Vote unanimous. Passed 6-0
RESOLUTION APPROVING TEXT AMENDMENT TO UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
THAT WHEREAS, the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance and other
land use ordinances that control land development within both the City's
incorporated areas and within its extraterritorial area; and
WHEREAS, in order to promote the public health, safety and general welfare and
to promote the best interest of the city and community, it is necessary for the
Southport Board of Aldermen from time to time to consider appropriate
revisions, modifications and additions to the city's land use ordinances; and
WHEREAS, the Planning Director has prepared and submitted to the Planning Board
a proposed amendment to Article 8 of the Southport Unified Development
Ordinance; and
WHEREAS, the Planning Board has considered this matter and has recommended that
this proposed amendment to the Unified Development Ordinance be approved; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to N. C. General Statutes and city ordinances, a public
hearing, properly noticed, was held on July 8, 2010, before the Board of
Aldermen regarding this issue; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen hereby finds that this proposed amendment to the
Unified Development Ordinance is consistent with the Southport CAMA Land Use
Plan; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that this amendment is reasonable
and in the public interest in that (i) this aspect of nonconformities is not
properly addressed in the Unified Development Ordinance and should be, (ii)
this amendment is necessary to promote orderly growth and development in the
City of Southport, and (iii) it is necessary to promote the public safety and
general welfare of the community by allowing for the adjustment of certain
property lines in the City.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that the
attached amendment and addition to the Southport Unified Development Ordinance
is hereby approved and adopted.
This 8th day of July, 2010.
City of Southport
By:
/s/ Robert D. Howard
Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, Clerk
AMENDMENT TO CITY OF SOUTHPORT UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
TEXT AMENDMENT # 10-0212-01
An Ordinance Amending the City of Southport Unified Development Ordinance, With
Respect to Nonconforming Lots
AMEND BY ADDITION OF:
ARTICLE 8: NONCONFORMING SITUATIONS
Section 8-2: Nonconforming Lots
(C) Contiguous nonconforming lots owned by the same person, which were legally
subdivided and recorded in Brunswick County prior to August of 1973, may be
combined with a contiguous conforming lot which is oversized and also owned by
the same person, for the purpose of re-positioning lot lines as long as all of
the net resulting nonconforming lots are less nonconforming. The conforming lot
may not be made nonconforming. No additional lots may be created through this
process, as the number of lots resulting from the reconfiguration must be equal
to or less than the number of lots originally involved in the recombination.
The resulting lots must be more conforming to all City standards than they were
prior to undertaking this process. Any structure in existence on any of these
contiguous lots at the time of reconfiguration cannot create new
nonconformities or increase the extent of existing nonconformities with respect
to yard size and setback requirements.
b)    Consideration of Resolution Authorizing Concession Agreement for City
Property (Maritime Museum)
City Manager Thornton presented a resolution authorizing the Concession
Agreement for City Property (Maritime Museum). The lease agreement was formally
approved May 14, 2009 and was sent to the Department of Interior Regional
Office in Atlanta. The Agreement has been revised and is presented for review
approval. Attorney Isenberg noted changes made were basically in the
terminology. Mayor Howard questioned some of the language in the Concession
Agreement and the obligation of the City including potential liability because
some of the language is ambiguous. In reviewing the document, Attorney Isenberg
stated he does not believe that the City has to worry about liability issues.
No further discussion, Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to
approve the resolution authorizing Concession Agreement for City Property. The
vote of approval was unanimous. Passed 6-0.
RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING CONCESSION AGREEMENT FOR CITY PROPERTY
WHEREAS, the City of Southport now owns the Fort Johnston Barracks located at
103-A and 103-B Davis Street and 204-A and 204-B East Moore Street, having
acquired said property pursuant to the terms of that certain quitclaim deed
from the United States of America recorded in Book 2634 at Page 269 of the
Brunswick County Registry; and
WHEREAS, the City, State of North Carolina and The Friends of the North
Carolina Maritime Museum at Southport have agreed to enter into a Concession
Agreement whereby the City will grant unto the State an exclusive concession
agreement for the use of said property; and
WHEREAS, the United States of America, acting by and through the Southeast
Regional Director of the National Park Service, has approved and consented to
the terms and provisions of said agreement; and
WHEREAS, N. C. G. S. 160A-274 authorizes the City to enter into this Agreement
with the State of North Carolina for the use of said property upon such terms
and conditions as it deems wise; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that the
Board hereby approves the attached Concession Agreement and authorizes and
directs the Mayor or City Manager to execute said agreement on behalf of the
City.
Adopted July 8, 2010.
City of Southport
By:
/s/Robert D. Howard 
Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
City Clerk
c)    Consideration of Way finding Signs Encroachment Agreement Contractor
Selection
Ms. Nelson, City Planner presented bid results from two engineering firms to
assist the City with encroachment agreements to place way finding signs in the
City. The company will prepare and submit design plans to NCDOT for approval.
John Davenport Engineers, Inc. was recommended based on their experience with
this type of project and the accessibility in working with staff to submit
information requested in a timely manner.
W. K. Dickson - $5500    Davenport Transportation Consulting- $6700
Alderman Karn questioned why Howe and West Streets were not included in the
locations. Ms. Nelson stated that DOT approved the locations based on their
criteria, but will ask about the area in question.
Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to authorize the City to enter
into contract with Davenport Transportation Consulting for the way finding
signs encroachment agreement(s) in the amount of $6700. The votes were 5 ayes,
Aldermen Karn, Poole, Boguskie, Potter and Frink. 1 no, Alderman Adams, because
W.K. Dickson was the low bidder. Passed 5-1
d)   Consideration of Recommendation from Traffic and Transportation Committee
Regarding Paving and Resurfacing Improvement Projects
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to accept the bid of D & G
Contracting in the amount of $76,826 for road repairs and resurfacing.
Discussion: Mayor Howard asked if a performance bond was required. Mr. Thornton
stated that it was not required; however a bid bond and liability insurance are
in place. Attorney Isenberg noted that the specs did not call for a performance
bond and if required, the cost of the project will increase. It was noted that
the contractor will not be paid until the project is finished and accepted by
the City. No further discussion, the vote was unanimous. Passed 6-0
e)   Suggested Rules of Procedure for a City Council
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to hold a workshop
Saturday, July 31 at 8:00 a.m. on the rules of procedures and ethics policy.
Attorney Isenberg advised that if the Board decides to adopt Rules of
Procedures written by the School of Government, it would need to amend or
repeal Section 2-54 of the City Charter.
f)    Discussion of Home Occupation as defined and Regulated by the City of
Southport Unified Development Ordinance
Alderman Poole stated that there are various levels of home occupations and
would like to ask staff and the Planning Board to come up with a definitive
definition of "home occupation." She motioned seconded by Alderman Karn to
refer this matter to staff and the Planning Board. Discussion: Alderman Karn
noted that some home occupations are invisible, where others may require
parking and signage and require a conditional use permit. Therefore some
clarification is needed to enforce the ordinance. Attorney Isenberg noted that
page 1566 of the City Code of Ordinances definition for "home occupation" is
more detailed than the definition in the Unified Development Ordinance.
Alderman Adams asked that careful consideration be given to putting commercial
businesses in residential areas. The vote on the motion was unanimous. Passed
6-0
g)    Ethics Policy
The ethics policy will be discussed on July 31st.
h)    Southport Historical Society
Alderman Karn motioned to submit Southport Historical Society's proposal to the
N. C. State Division of Archives and History to install four (4) replica
cannons at the Fort Johnston Garrison property, seconded by Alderman Boguskie.
Discussion: Alderman Frink stated that the City had not received the spacial
needs assessment and asked that the Fort Johnston Committee review the
proposal. Mayor Howard stated his concern was the request had not been
submitted to the Fort Johnston Committee. Alderman Karn stated the motion is to
submit the proposal to the state agency to ascertain if this would be an
appropriate use on the property. Alderman Adams stated he does not believe
placing cannons and cluttering the garrison lawn is good for Southport. Vote on
the motion was 4 ayes, Aldermen Karn, Boguskie, Poole and Potter. 2 noes,
Aldermen Adams and Frink. Passed 4-2
Recess 8:20 - 8:25 p.m.
X.
Other Business
Alderman Boguskie motioned to amend Section 9-38, Notice to Abate Nuisance of
the City Code of Ordinances, seconded by Alderman Karn. Vote unanimous. Passed
6-0
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 9-38 OF THE CODE OF ORDINANCES
BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport that Section
9-38 of the Code of Ordinances is hereby amended to read as follows:
Sec. 9-38. Notice to abate nuisance.
Upon a determination that such conditions constituting a public nuisance exist,
the city Manager or his designee shall notify, in writing, the owner, occupant
or person in possession of the premises in question of the conditions
constituting such public nuisance and shall order the prompt abatement thereof
within fifteen (15) days from receipt of such written notice.
This the 8th day of July, 2010.
City of Southport
/s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, Clerk
XI.
City Manager Comments
City Manager Thornton reiterated his thanks to staff and all involved in the
4th of July cleanup.
Mr. Thornton told the Board that the North Carolina Marine Fisheries and DENR
announced the FY 2011 boating infrastructure grant program. He stated the grant
can help with improvements to the City boat dock where the criteria are
transient boat dockage. He asked if the Board wished to apply for the grant
which would require a 25% local match. Alderman Frink motioned, seconded by
Alderman Boguskie to authorize the City Manager to submit a grant application
for a boating infrastructure grant (BIG) through DENR. Vote unanimous. Passed
6-0
XII.
Board Comments
Alderman Potter recommended the Board establish a review committee to look into
the complaint by Ms. Baker of Waterfront Gifts regarding the vendors during the
4th of July. Alderman Karn stated that DSI formed a Merchants Committee which
could be a means to talk about concerns of the merchants and designate someone
to speak with the Chamber of Commerce.
Alderman Karn announced his availability on the second Thursday of each month
between the hours of 3:30 - 5:30 p.m. at City Hall to meet with citizens.
XIII.
Executive Session - 8:35 p.m.
Alderman Poole motioned to enter closed session to discuss the performance
appraisal of the City Manager, seconded by Alderman Frink, vote carried. Passed
6-0
(Clerk Excused)
________________________________________
Robert D. Howard, Mayor
_____________________________
Regina W. Alexander, MMC
Clerk
EXECUTIVE SESSION
 
EXECUTIVE SESSION MINUTES JULY 8, 2010
 
PRESENT:         Robert Howard, Mayor
            Mary Ellen Poole, Mayor Pro Tem
            Aldermen Nelson Adams, Ed Boguskie, Jwantana Frink, Kenneth Karn
and
            Vickie Potter
            City Manager Alan Thornton
            City Attorney Mike Isenberg
I.
EXECUTIVE SESSION - WITHOUT THORNTON AND ISENBERG
Board went over procedures of giving Mr. Thornton his evaluation and advising
him that the process would allow for him to provide feedback at the next
meeting/continuation.
II.
EXECUTIVE SESSION - WITH MR. THORNTON AND MR. ISENBERG
City Attorney Isenberg advised the Board that he discussed Mr. Jones' claim for
continuation of health insurance with Jason Disbrow, Attorney for Mr. Jones. He
informed the board that he did not believe that Mr. Jones was entitled to
continuation of health insurance and that he had advised Attorney Disbrow and
furnished him copies of the relevant city policy. City Attorney Isenberg also
advised the board that in his opinion, Mr. Jones' claim would be a workers'
compensation claim, and he recommended that Mr. Thornton speak with the City's
insurance carrier regarding the possible claim.
III.
EXECUTIVE SESSION WITH MR. THORNTON AND WITHOUT MR. ISENBERG
Mr. Thornton was given a copy of his assessment by Alderman Poole. She advised
Mr. Thornton that the process allowed him to review the assessment and to
provide feedback/input back to the Board by the next meeting/continuation. Mr.
Thornton stated that he enjoyed working for the city and appreciated the
opportunity to be assessed and to provide feedback/input.
IV.
REGULAR MEETING BUSINESS:
Alderman Boguskie motioned that the Board come out of executive session, and
re-enter regular session, seconded by Alderman Frink. Vote unanimous.
The Board agreed to recess the meeting until July 31, 2010 at 8:00 a.m.
Prepared by Mary Ellen Poole, Mayor Pro-Tem, Deputy Clerk
Recessed Session
July 31, 2010
 
Recessed Session Saturday, July 31, 2010
8:00 a.m.
 
PRESENT:         Robert Howard, Mayor
            Mary Ellen Poole, Mayor Pro Tem
            Aldermen Nelson Adams, Ed Boguskie, Jwantana Frink
            Kenneth Karn and Vickie Potter
            Alan Thornton, City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander, MMC-City Clerk
I.
Mayor Howard called the recessed meeting back to order at 8:02 a.m.
II.
The invocation was pronounced by Mayor Howard.
III.
Unfinished Business
a)    Suggested Rules of Procedures for City Council
b)    Code of Ethics
c)   Performance Evaluation of City Manager and Clerk
A)    Suggested Rules of Procedures for City Council
After review and discussion, motion was made by Alderman Frink, seconded by
Alderman Karn to adopt the "Suggested Rules of Procedure for a City Council,
3rd Edition, written by A. Fleming Bell, II of the North Carolina School of
Government as amended by the Board. The vote of approval was unanimous. (Copy
of Procedures will be incorporated as Attachment #1)
Note: Page 12- Rule 5. Public Address to the Council
City Manager Thornton requested a policy be established for persons wishing to
address the Board. Consensus was 10 day requirement and staff asked to draft
wording specifying length of time, etc. and present back to the Board.
The Board discussed posting all Committee meetings notice in accordance with
the open meeting law at least forty-eight (48) hours prior to the meeting.
Notice should be provided to the Clerk and she will insure that the notice is
posted. Mayor Howard asked the Manager to draft a directive to all committees,
staff liaisons and chairpersons apprising them that notice of committee
meetings must be posted and minutes kept of their meetings and a copy provided
to the Clerk to be kept on file.
B)    Code of Ethics
The Model Code of Ethics was reviewed by the Board. Mayor Howard noted that the
policy can be amended whenever a change is needed. He also suggested any Board
or Committee under the Board's authority follow the ethics policy unless a
different one is approved by the Board. City Manager Thornton noted that a code
of ethics was recently adopted for ABC Boards and the requirements possibly
follow the same tenets as the one for local elected boards.
The Board discussed the proposed policy and made few changes. Alderman Boguskie
motioned that Section 6 (see policy) be stricken from the code, seconded by
Alderman Karn. 1 yes vote, Alderman Boguskie, 5 noes, Aldermen Karn, Adams,
Poole, Potter and Frink. Motion failed on 5-1.
Alderman Frink moved to adopt a Code of Ethics for the Southport Board of
Aldermen making it applicable to all Boards under the authority of the
Aldermen. The vote of approval was unanimous. Passed 6-0 (Copy of Code
Incorporated in the record)
City Manager Thornton in answer to questions by members of the Board stated the
Personnel Policy should include a section on ethical behavior for employees.
When the revised policy is presented to the Board, and if it is not
sufficiently addressed, the Board can make changes to the policy before
approval.
(Clerk excused for closed session)
EXECUTIVE SESSION
JULY 31, 2010
 
EXECUTIVE SESSION - 9:56 a.m. JULY 31, 2010
 
IV.
EXECUTIVE SESSION - WITHOUT MR. THORNTON
Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to enter closed session to
discuss the performance evaluation of the City Manager/Clerk
The Board went over procedures of giving Mr. Thornton his evaluation.
V.
EXECUTIVE SESSION - WITH MR. THORNTON
Mr. Thornton went over his feedback with the Board. Each Board member was
allowed an opportunity to go over information they felt was pertinent.
VI.
EXECUTIVE SESSION - WITHOUT MR. THORNTON
Board discussed Mr. Thornton's assessment and developed goals for Mr. Thornton.
The Board agreed that they would meet with Mr. Thornton every ninety (90) days
and establish new goals. This will allow input all year long rather than just
at the end of the year.
Assessment of Ms. Alexander was discussed. Alderman Poole stated that she would
prepare a proposed form to be used for the evaluation and send it to the other
board members next week.
The Board agreed to recess for lunch at 1200 - 1245 hours.
VII.
REGULAR MEETING BUSINESS
Mayor Howard called the recessed meeting back to order. Motion made by Alderman
Poole to re-enter closed session, seconded by Alderman Frink. Motion carried.
Alderman Frink motioned that the Board come out of executive session, seconded
by Alderman Boguskie. Motion carried by unanimous decision.
Mayor Howard stated that the Board had met with the City Manager and that the
meeting was productive and his evaluation was finalized, and documentation will
be prepared to finalize at the August meeting.
Alderman Poole motioned for adjournment, seconded by Alderman Karn. The
decision was unanimous. The meeting was adjourned at 1420 hours.
(Prepared by Mary Ellen Poole, Mayor Pro-Tem, Deputy Clerk)
_________________________________
Mayor
__________________________________
Clerk
JULY 21, 2010
SPECIAL MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
JULY 21, 2010     6:30 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, N. C.
 
PRESENT:         Robert Howard, Mayor
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Kenneth Karn, Ed Boguskie,
            Vickie Potter, Nelson Adams and Jwantana Frink
ABSENT:         None
STAFF:         M. Alan Thornton, City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander, MMC, City Clerk
I.
Meeting called to order – 6:30 p.m.
The meeting was called to order at 6:30 p.m. by Mayor Howard.
II.
Invocation
The invocation was pronounced by Mayor Howard.
III.
Ethics Statement
Mayor Howard asked “if any member of the Board knows of any conflict of
interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect to matters on
the agenda, to please state it at this time .”
IV.
Approval of Agenda
Alderman Frink moved, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to approve the agenda. Vote
unanimous. Passed 6-0
V.
Agenda Matter
a)   Pursuant to N.C.G.S. 143-318.12 a special meeting was called to consider
enforcement of City ordinances regulating obstructions in the public rights of
way and sidewalks.
Public Comments:
Alan Pascucci stated the initial problem was A-frame signs blocking traffic and
inhibiting the flow of pedestrians. He suggested the City either ban all
obstacles in accordance with the ordinance or to allow obstacles with “letters”
if the issue is culpability on the City’s behalf. He questioned whether the
City has on file with the Department of Transportation letters of insurance or
proof of indemnification. He suggested this issue be resolved because it can
tear the City apart.
Ernest Long told the Board that the source of the complaint should have been
considered before acted upon. He stated if obstructions are a danger to
pedestrians, they should be removed. He asked that the City engage public
opinion about the benches as he has done, because they provide a public service
and contributes to the ambience of the City.
Karen Taylor, owner of Taylor’s Restaurant and President of the Chamber of
Commerce, stated the timing is not right to enforce the ordinance. She told the
Board that she moved to Southport because of the City’s ambience and beauty.
She encouraged the Board to read the letter from the Chamber of Commerce and
consider what the businesses are dealing with in hopes that the issue can be
resolved.
Woody Wilson, 502 Brunswick Street encouraged the Board to enforce what is on
the books or tweak it to make it work. He added that the benches are used by
the public and they add to the ambience of the town. However, if the ordinance
is fixed then staff can enforce Board directives.
Mayor Howard commented that he does not support the approach to enforcing the
sidewalk obstruction ordinance. It is his opinion that the downtown area should
be user friendly. Merchants should be able to place benches and flower planters
in front of their businesses subject to application and approval by the Code
Enforcer, however; if anything obstructs safe pedestrian passage on sidewalks,
it should be removed. He believes that the ordinance is sufficient but a matter
of interpretation and enforcement. He asked the Board to declare a moratorium
on the enforcement of the City Code as it relates to benches, planters and
displays in the downtown area until review by staff, Board of Aldermen and
Beautification Committee. Upon completion of evaluation by the Beautification
Committee a report be presented to the Board with recommendations. Further to
request the City Attorney to provide a legal opinion regarding the ability of
the City Code to allow convenience benches, flower planters and flower displays
on the sidewalks in the downtown business area i.e. the liability issue for the
City.
Alderman Boguskie stated he does not take his oath of office lightly, he has a
job to do as an elected official and the ordinance is explicit. He explained
that he is not against benches; however, the ordinance is on the books and it
can be changed with a majority vote of the Board, not a committee.
Alderman Karn presented pictures of various situations in the downtown business
area. He stated that the City Planner and Code Enforcer took measurements of
the sidewalks. He noted that the existing ordinance is definitive and the need
is to define safe passageway i.e. the dimensions and what constitutes an
obstruction and compliance with the American Disabilities Act. He would like to
see the benches and flower planters remain if the City can write an ordinance
that is enforced fairly. He stated that this should be a decision by the Board.
Alderman Poole stated under the City Code of Ordinances; benches and flower
pots, display of goods prohibited (16-7), obstructions of public rights of way
and existing encroachments on rights of way need to also be reviewed.
Alderman Adams stated the ordinance needs to be fixed and he would like to seek
input from the Beautification Committee, merchants and advice from the City
Attorney. He supports a moratorium and input from anyone.
Alderman Potter voiced support for the benches and planters but wish to see
them against the buildings. She agreed that the ordinance needs to be worked as
soon as possible.
Alderman Boguskie motioned that the City of Southport Board of Aldermen declare
a moratorium on enforcing City Code Section 16-7, 8-10 for forty-five (45)
days, seconded by Alderman Karn. Discussion: Alderman Potter questioned what
would happen if someone got hurt. Mayor noted that the City has liability
insurance. Motion carried unanimously. Passed 6-0
Adjournment 7:10 p.m.
Motion by Alderman Boguskie to adjourn, seconded by Alderman Frink. Vote
unanimous.
__________________________________
Mayor
_________________________________
Clerk
AUGUST 12, 2010
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN             REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
AUGUST 12, 2010               6:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS (CITY HALL) SOUTHPORT, N. C.
 
PRESENT:             Mayor Robert D. Howard
               Aldermen Nelson E. Adams, Richard “Ed” Boguskie, Mary Ellen
Poole,
                Ken Karn, Jwantana Frink and Vickie Potter
ABSENT:              None
STAFF PRESENT:      M. Alan Thornton, City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander, MMC- City Clerk
            Michael Isenberg, City Attorney
            Amy Nelson, Director of Planning
            Heather Hemphill, Director of Parks & Recreation
            Patty Miller, Director of Finance
            Ralph Cardwell, Director of Public Services
            Gregory Cumbee, Fire Chief
            Neal Sage, Rescue Chief
            Elyssa Cooper, Interim Director of Tourism
            Charles Drew, Code Enforcer
            Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
            Jerry Dove, Chief of Police
I.
Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
II.
Invocation
Alderman Karn welcomed everyone and pronounced the invocation.
Ethics Statement:   Mayor Howard asked “if any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time .”
III.
Approval of Minutes – July 8 Regular, Recessed Session July 31 and Special
   Meeting July 21, 2010
Alderman Karn asked that the following statement be included in the discussion
of the July 8 meeting minutes under a) Southport Historical Society. “ If
approved, the submission does not commit the City to approve placement of the
cannons but it will considerably speed up the bureaucratic process by getting a
ruling from the state if the Board eventually approves the proposal.”
Alderman Karn moved to approve the July 8 minutes with noted amendment, July 31
recessed session and special meeting minutes of July 21. Motion seconded by
Alderman Poole. The vote was unanimous. Passed 6-0
Mayor Howard announced that the Gullah-Geechee Commission was meeting in
Southport which is comprised of five states. He announced that he would recess
the meeting at 6:45 p.m. to present a key to the City and Alderman Frink would
sing on the program.
IV.
Approval of Agenda
Alderman Karn asked that the sidewalk obstruction ordinance be added to the
agenda to receive a proposal from staff regarding changes to the Code of
Ordinances. (Item VIII-m) (Section 16. 8- 10) Alderman Boguskie motioned to
approve the agenda with noted amendment, seconded by Alderman Karn. Vote
unanimous. Passed 6-0
V.
Public Comments (3 Minutes Each)
Ms. Shirley Wilson of 502 Brunswick Street inquired about the schedule for the
next Fort Johnston Committee meeting.
Mr. James Hobbs of 3505 East Yacht Drive, Oak Island and students from
Southport Elementary presented their garden plans. He stated a grant from
Communities in Schools assisted in facilitating a garden improvement plan at
Southport Elementary School. The students toured various gardens, farms,
visited farmers’ markets and their plans are to start a garden club at
Southport Elementary. Their purpose in attending the City Council meeting was
to inform the City of their plans. Posters were presented by students showing
methods of composting, organic farming and natural foods compared to processed
foods. The presentation was well received by the Board.
VI.
Committee Reports
Tourism Committee: Alderman Boguskie noted that the tourism report is included
in the packet including a job description for a director of economic and
tourism development. The Committee also supports the establishment of a Tourism
Development Authority.
Fort Johnston Committee: Alderman Frink stated that an announcement was made
during the July 8 meeting that the Fort Johnston Committee would not meet until
the space analysis study was completed.
VII.
Departmental Reports
Reports included in agenda packet.
VIII.
New Business
a)   Report from Southport Oak Island Chamber of Commerce 4th of July Festival
Tabled until the September meeting.
b)   Franchise Agreement for Ambulance Service in Brunswick County
City Manager Thornton stated the franchise allows for the operation of
ambulance services within Brunswick County.
Alderman Boguskie motioned for approval, seconded by Alderman Karn. Vote
unanimous. Passed 6-0 (Copy of Agreement incorporated as Attachment #1)
c)   Consideration of Proposed Agreement with Progress Energy Regarding Fire
Fee Services
City Manager Thornton noted that the agreement has been in place since 1987. He
and Mayor Howard met with Kent Crocker, a representative from Progress Energy
and discussed terms of the agreement and they propose to pay $15,500 per year
as compensation for fire services. Mayor asked that this item be tabled until
the September meeting which will allow the City Attorney time to get the
agreement in contract form and will allow input from the Fire Chief.
d)   Progress Report on Maritime Museum
Mr. Wayne Strickland, representing Friends of the Museum provided an overview
of the renovation plans for the Maritime Museum. He stated the Friends hired
Cornerstone Builders to renovate the two units into a single unit.
Mayor Howard recommended the City waive permit fees for the museum. Alderman
Poole motioned that the City waive fees related to the project, seconded by
Alderman Boguskie. The vote was unanimous. Passed 6-0
Alderman Poole motioned that the City formally request the County to waive all
tipping fees for the Maritime Museum, seconded by Alderman Frink. Vote
unanimous. Passed 6-0
RECESS – 6:45 – 7:05 P.M.
Mayor Howard recessed the meeting to attend the Gullah-Geechee Commissioners
reception to present a key to the City.
Mayor Howard called the meeting back to order at 7:05 p.m.
e)   Proposed Revisions to the Unified Development Ordinance City Codes
The Planning Board Operations and Procedures Committee comprised of Aldermen
Poole and Karn, Planning Board members Tish Hatem, Buddy Barnes, Amy Nelson,
Planner and Alan Thornton, City Manager. Alderman Poole explained that some of
the wording in the City Code and UDO conflict. Looking at past practices of the
Planning Board; most applications were sent to Committee for review. The
Committee discussed that this was done during the time there was no Planning
Director and a large volume of applications submitted for review. The Planning
Board suggested that it makes the determination and others of the Committee
believes that this should be determined by the professional planner. The Board
needs to decide whether to use the word may or shall in the recommended
changes. Alderman Poole suggested the Board hold a special meeting to discuss
the recommended changes. Alderman Karn motioned seconded by Alderman Adams to
hold a S pecial Meeting Monday, August 23, 6:30 p.m. to review the proposed
changes to the Unified Development Ordinance. Vote unanimous. Passed 6-0
f)   Tourism Department
Alderman Boguskie, Chairman of the Tourism Committee presented a job
description for a Economic/Tourism Development Director. The Tourism Committee
recommended establishing a Tourism Development Authority (TDA). Board consensus
to place this item on the August 23rd special meeting agenda.
g)   Establishment of a Tourism Development Authority
City Manager Thornton presented a resolution to establish a Tourism Development
Authority and increase the existing occupancy tax from 3 to 5%. He stated to
accomplish this, a public hearing must be held before adoption of a resolution.
Alderman Adams questioned the need to increase the occupancy tax which could
place local B&B’s and hotels at a disadvantage. Alderman Boguskie stated the
general fund currently supports tourism and the tax could offset this cost.
Attorney Isenberg stated if a TDA is established, the Board of Aldermen
determines the number of members, term of office, chairperson and compensation;
but, the TDA will establish its own rules of procedure.
h)    Financing for Police Vehicle Replacement Program
City Manager Thornton presented the financing resolution from BB&T to purchase
two new police vehicles in the amount of $39,210. In answer to a question posed
by Mayor Howard, Mr. Thornton stated that staff evaluated purchasing used
highway patrol vehicles, but the state program is being deferred because the
vehicles are being driven longer due to budget restraints. The program could
save money, but the cars would have more mileage and wear. In discussion,
Alderman Karn and Adams stated that new vehicles are a source of pride for the
PD and the benefit outweighs the finances. Alderman Adams motioned to adopt the
resolution approving the financing terms to purchase two new police department
vehicles, seconded by Alderman Karn. Vote unanimous. Passed 6-0
i)    Request From Parks and Recreation Advisory Committee – Ft. Johnston
Tennis Courts
Alderman Potter reported that the Parks and Recreation Advisory Committee
recommended retaining the tennis courts at Fort Johnston which would cost
between $36,000 – 42,000 to resurface. Alderman Potter motioned, seconded by
Alderman Boguskie to accept the recommendation of the Parks and Recreation
Advisory Committee and the funds in the Capital Improvement Plan earmarked for
a parking lot be identified to resurface the tennis courts. Discussion:
Alderman Adams stated the original plan calls for construction of a parking lot
at Fort Johnston and cited the lack of parking during functions at the
Community Building and asked why the recommendation was not presented to the
Fort Johnston Committee or during budget discussion. Alderman Boguskie stated
that adjustments can be made to the initial plan if a letter of request is
submitted to Mr. Bill Huey. Alderman Potter stated that she does not believe
that parking is a problem with the new parking spaces recently added. City
Manager Thornton noted that the City has an updated parking study and he will
provide copies to the Board. Mayor called for the vote: 4 ayes, Aldermen
Potter, Boguskie, Poole and Karn. 2 nays, Aldermen Adams and Frink. Motion
passed 4-2
j)    Community Building for City Council Meetings
Alderman Poole voiced concern about public access for anyone who desires to
attend City Council meetings because the present location is not handicap
accessible. Alderman Poole motioned that City Council meetings be held at the
Community Building at the earliest possible date, authorized the purchase of
audio equipment not to exceed $6,000 and if a budget amendment is required,
that same be prepared for Board approval. The motion was seconded by Alderman
Karn. Vote unanimous. Passed 6-0 Clerk requested to check the availability of
the Community Building for October.
k)    Southport Rescue Squad – Grant Application
Chief Sage, Rescue Chief asked approval from the Board to submit a grant
application to apply for funding to secure monies to purchase a new ambulance
to replace the 1990 wheeled coach unit. He explained that they are also
experiencing maintenance problems with the 2001 unit.
Chief Sage told the Board that he has consulted with EMS 1 Grant Writing
Service to assist with the application process. The Squad’s match for the grant
would range 5 to 20% and the financial obligation is anticipated at no more
than $30,000. With the sale of the 1990 unit, this cost would be reduced. The
financial commitment is $1,000 once the grant application is submitted for the
USDA. If applying for the AFG grant, there will be no fee because the cost of
the grant can be rolled into the cost of the ambulance.
Alderman Adams questioned the status with Brunswick County pertaining to Rescue
Services. Mayor Howard stated the feasibility study will be available no later
than October. Alderman Karn motioned to authorize the City Manager to sign the
agreement for both grants, seconded by Alderman Boguskie. Discussion: Alderman
Adams stated that it would be prudent to wait until the report is received.
Alderman Karn stated that it is his belief that the City has a better chance of
getting a grant than the County taking over the City’s rescue services, if the
County does take over, the City can deny the grant. Mayor called for the vote:
3 ayes, Aldermen Karn, Boguskie and Potter. 4 nays, Aldermen Adams, Frink,
Poole and Mayor Howard. Motion defeated 4 - 3
l)   Discussion of Procedures for Performance Evaluation of City Clerk
Alderman Poole presented the performance evaluation form for the City Clerk.
Alderman Karn suggested if the evaluator does not wish to comment on a
category, it then compute the average score. Alderman Poole motioned to accept
the form as amended and to begin the process immediately, seconded by Alderman
Karn. Vote unanimous. Passed 6-0
m)   Obstructions: Section 16-8 and Section 16-10
City Manager Thornton discussed the revised Section 16-8 and 16-10 of the
ordinance regarding obstructions and public safety. He stated the ordinance was
modified to allow benches, planters and A-frame signs on the sidewalk. Alderman
Potter questioned if table and chairs would be allowed because the changes are
limited. Alderman Karn stated merchants have requested the letter from the
Chamber of Commerce be placed in the minutes as a part of the official record.
He also suggested a certain amount of space from the buildings where merchants
can place whatever they want in the space. Alderman Karn asked why everything
is proposed to be up against the buildings and nothing placed in the area where
shade trees are located. City Manager Thornton stated the City proposes to
maintain continuity.
Alderman Boguskie commented on the lack of signs on state roads prohibiting
backing into parking spaces and if trucks extend three feet beyond the curve,
benches placed beneath the trees will be destroyed. Alderman Karn responded
that most of the parking spaces are diagonal.
Mayor Howard suggested the moratorium be extended to September 9 which would
give merchants time to review the changes and make comments.
Alderman Boguskie motioned to extend the moratorium to September seconded by
Alderman Potter. Vote unanimous . Passed 6-0
Southport-Oak Island Area Chamber of Commerce
4841 Long Beach Road - Southport, NC 28461
910-457-6964 . 800-457-6964. Fax 910-457-0598
www.southport-oakisland.com
Alan Thornton
Manager
City of Southport
20L E. Moore Street
Southport, NC 28461
Dear Mr. Thornton;
The Southport-Oak lsland Area Chamber of Commerce Board of Directors,
representing over 540 businesses is very concerned about your letter dated June
L6, 20L0 sent to Southport Business Owners. Our specific concern is the
definition of obstructions... "Obstructions include but are not limited to:
benches, tables, chairs, displayed merchandise and other non-permitted signs."
We understand the Southport Board of Alderman's desire to use the City Unified
Development Ordinances to implement a "vision" for Southport. We respectfully
submit the removal of items deemed as "obstructions" is by no means in the best
interest of the businesses, residents and visitors to Southport. lf you
continue down this path of sterilization of the Southport business district you
will be losing what makes Southport unique and welcoming - its individuality.
This individuality sets the Southport business district apart from its
competitors in the region and state
We support the removal of items that are "obstructing the free passage of
persons and vehicles." We do not support the removal of items from the
sidewalks and rights-of-way just because benches, tables, chairs, displayed
merchandise exist in the sidewalks or rights-of-way. We submit for
consideration that the Board of Alderman charges the City Manager with the task
of reviewing its interpretation of an obstruction and when doing so consider
what makes Southport has character.
We hope you will consider a broader and more favorable definition of
"obstructions" that will allow Southport's individuality to shine.
Sincerely
/s/ Karen Sphar
Executive Vice President
cc: The Honorable Mayor Robert Howard
Board of Alderman
IX.
Other Business
X.
City Manager Comments
·   $5,000 grant received to implement a plan to manage the legacy trees (ex:
live oaks)
·   Consent Agenda – Section 2-53 of the City Code needs to be amended before
the Board implements the consent agenda.
XI.
Board Comments
ABC Board – Alderman Poole motioned, seconded by Alderman Karn to reappoint Mr.
Harold Spencer to the ABC Board upon recommendation of the ABC Board members
for a term of three years. Vote unanimous. Passed 6-0
Mosquito Spraying –  Alderman Boguskie briefed the Board on new EPA regulations
for mosquito spraying because of the amount of pesticides that is put into the
waters, and as a result; the county may not have a program.
City Code of Ordinances- Alderman Poole noted that the City Code of Ordinances
needs updating and the Board needs to discuss how to implement this program.
Water Cooler (Waterfront Park) – Alderman Potter advised that the water cooler
is not working at Waterfront Park and it will cost approximately $3,000 to
replace it. Alderman Potter motioned to replace the water cooler immediately
and if funds are not available, authorize a budget amendment. Motion seconded
by Alderman Karn, vote unanimous. Passed 6-0
Alderman Potter noted that the new parking spaces between Caswell and Moore,
that none were designated handicap.
Alderman Potter asked about establishing a Review Committee for the 4th of July
regarding complaints and problems. Alderman Karn noted since there are several
issues that need to be discussed, he suggested scheduling a meeting after the
4th of July Committee’s presentation in September.
Alderman Potter asked that she serve on the Fourth of July Evaluation Committee
along with Carol Baker.
XII.
Executive Session
9:02 p.m. Alderman Boguskie moved to enter closed session to complete the
personnel evaluation with the City Manager, seconded by Alderman Adams, vote
carried. Passed 6-0
(Clerk Excused)
XIII.
Regular Session Reconvened – 9:40 p.m.
At 9:40 p.m. Mayor Howard appointed Alderman Poole as Deputy Clerk.
Alderman Karn motioned that the Board re-enter regular session, seconded by
Alderman Adams. Vote unanimous. Passed 6-0
Mayor Howard stated that the evaluation was completed and that the Board worked
with mutually acceptable goals and would continue that process.
Mayor Howard stated that Mrs. Alexander asked during Board discussion that the
Aldermen specify if they want various discussion points included in the
minutes.
XIV.
Adjournment – 9:44 p.m.
There being no further business, Alderman Boguskie moved to adjourn the meeting
seconded by Alderman Frink. Vote unanimous.
_____________________________________
Mayor
_________________________________
City Clerk
AUGUST 23, 2010
SPECIAL MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN             SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
AUGUST 23, 2010               6:30 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS (CITY HALL) SOUTHPORT, N. C.
 
PRESENT:            Mayor Robert D. Howard
            Aldermen Nelson E. Adams, Richard “Ed” Boguskie, Mary Ellen Poole,
            Ken Karn, Jwantana Frink and Vickie Potter
ABSENT:              None
STAFF PRESENT:      M. Alan Thornton, City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander, MMC-City Clerk
I.
Call to Order – 6:30 p.m.
Mayor Howard called the Special Meeting to order at 6:30 p.m. pursuant to
notice duly posted and advertised, the purpose of the special meeting was to
discuss the establishment of a Tourism Development Authority, increasing the
occupancy tax from 3 – 5%, adopting a resolution calling for a Public Hearing
and proposed Unified Development Ordinance changes.
II.
Invocation
The invocation was pronounced by Reverend Charles Drew, Pastor of New Light
House Pentecostal Church, Bolivia, N.C.
III.
Agenda Approval
Alderman Frink motioned to approve the agenda with the addition of public
comments, seconded by Alderman Karn. Vote unanimous.
IV.
Public Comments
Mrs. Kendall Crews of 211 River Drive told the Board about her quest to obtain
public records and a copy of the August 12 agenda packet which did not include
the revisions recommended by the Planning Committee and Board. A written
statement was given to the Clerk and she requested that it be made a part of
the public record. (Statement placed on file)
Mr. Fred Guerrina of 710 Dale Avenue and a member of the Planning Board
questioned why the Board proposes to give up its executive power for a written
rule to dismiss an individual from a Board which will limit the Boards’
authoritative power. The Planning Board is an autonomous board operating at the
discretion of the elected board in an advisory capacity and should have the
power to act independent and make recommendations in conjunction with City
staff.
Mr. Buddy Barnes, 425 West West Street and a member of the Planning Board,
suggested the Board not make changes to the Code and asked that they review
carefully the changes being proposed. He confirmed that there has been
miscommunication between staff and the Board, but believes the situation has
been resolved. The Planning Board did make some recommended changes and he
presented the minutes with the changes to the Clerk.
Mr. Jim Clary resident of Bay Street stated concerns about disbanding the
Planning Board which is an important City Board. He stated concerns about
increasing the occupancy tax by 2% with the down turn in the economy.
Mr. David McVey of 216 Willis Drive and a member of the Tourism Committee
stated his opposition to raising the occupancy tax. He stated that it appears
that the City is anti-business and believes that it should be mandatory that
Aldermen schedule time to meet with citizens.
Mr. Dale McPherson of 108 South Rhett Street and a member of the Planning Board
referenced Section 3-10 Public Facilities of the Unified Development Ordinance
in which the Planning Board Liaison Committee proposed to take this out of the
Code and it is his belief that this section should not be deleted. He stated if
Board decisions are not considered carefully, staff will be made responsible
for the wishes of the people. He explained that Planning Board members have
expertise in various areas and the Board is beneficial to the City.
Alderman Poole noted that minutes of the Planning Board were received. She
explained that the Planning Board Operations Procedure Committee is presenting
procedural changes for Board of Aldermen review. She stated that there is no
proposal to dissolve the Planning Board. The procedure still requires the
Planning Board to make recommendations. The discussion is whether or not they
will have the option of holding additional meetings i.e. review committees.
Alderman Adams asked if the changes were recommended by the Planning Board or
the Planning Board Operations Procedure Committee. Alderman Poole noted the
changes include options for consideration and the Planning Board Operations
Procedure Committee and the Planning Board did not agree on all options,
therefore; no consensus was met. The document along with the Planning Board
minutes gives options if the Board of Aldermen proposes to make changes.
Alderman Karn explained that there are two places on the document where members
were not in accord and the options are enumerated by the Committee and Planning
Board. He explained that the Committee believes the Planning Board would
operate more effectively if the changes recommended by the Committee were
approved.
Mayor Howard asked about Article 4: Amendments in the Unified Development
Ordinance which explains how the Unified Development Ordinance can be amended
under 4-1 (a) and 4-2  Alderman Poole noted that this is the policy for the UDO
and any changes made will require a vote of the Board.
V.
Tourism Development Authority/Adoption of Resolution
Alderman Boguskie explained that a Tourism Development Authority is established
by the Board of Aldermen who may appoint five (5) members with staggered terms.
Funds are generated from tourism and channeled through the Tourism Development
Authority. The City is currently using general fund monies to support tourism
and the occupancy tax would help offset this cost. He referenced the job
description included in the packet for a Director of Economic and Tourism
Development. Alderman Karn added that the TDA is pro business and every dollar
invested in tourism is a three dollar return which would benefit the City
economically. (Statistics from Congressman McIntyre)
Alderman Adams voiced opposition to creating a governmental entity where the
City does not have control of the monies.
The Board discussed approximate revenues that would be generated with a 2%
increase in the occupancy tax. Mayor Howard questioned the cost to operate a
Tourism Development Authority. Alderman Boguskie in explanation stated there
would be no administrative expenditures involved in the Tourism Development
Authority with the exception of expenditures for tourism unless the Board of
Aldermen decide to pay members a stipend. Alderman Boguskie referenced the
Board to number 5 of the resolution which read  “the authority shall report
quarterly and at the close of the fiscal year to the Southport Board of
Aldermen on its receipts and expenditures for the preceding quarter and for the
year in such detail as required by the Board.”  Mayor Howard stated it is
currently costing $167,000 to operate the Tourism Department i.e. salaries and
promotion. It is estimated the City will take in $75,000 from the occupancy tax
which will go to the Tourism Development Authority, therefore the revenue
portion of the City budget will be reduced by $50,000. He questioned where the
additional funds would come from to fund the budget. City Manager Thornton
stated the budget will be reduced based upon what the Tourism Development
Authority will do under its authority for travel and tourism promotion. Mayor
Howard stated it is his belief that the citizens will spend more funds to
operate the Tourism Development Authority.
Alderman Adams suggested that more definitive information be submitted before
Board action due to the level of discussion and questions raised from the Board
about the budget and cost for the Tourism Development Authority.
Alderman Karn stated the taxpayers currently fund the entire tourism budget of
$167,000 which will be offset this year by a projection of $50,000 in occupancy
taxes. He cited as a reference that Myrtle Beach’s tourism budget is equivalent
to the entire tourism budget for the State of North Carolina. He explained if a
Tourism Development Authority is established in Southport, it will generate
more revenues which would save money and not cost the citizens. Mayor Howard
stated that this matter should be deferred and tax dollars not expended until a
cost benefit analysis is compiled.
In answer to a question by Alderman Frink, City Manager Thornton stated that
travel and tourism is the largest industry in Southport and anything done by
way of marketing and promoting tourism would benefit the City. If the Board
decides to pursue this, a Public Hearing is required to be held. Staff can
provide projected revenue numbers if requested by the Board.
Alderman Frink motioned that the Board not adopt the resolution creating a
Tourism Development Authority, seconded by Alderman Adams. The votes were: 2
ayes, Aldermen Adams and Frink. 4 nays: Aldermen Potter, Poole, Karn and
Boguskie. Motion failed 4-2.
Alderman Boguskie stated that the information was presented for discussion not
Board action because there are several things to be considered.
Alderman Karn motioned to adopt the resolution to levy an additional room
occupancy tax and create a tourism development authority and fill in the blanks
under number one (1) as follows: “There is hereby created the Southport Tourism
Development Authority, which shall be a public authority under the Local
Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act. The Authority shall be comprised of 4
members who shall be appointed by the Southport Board of Aldermen. Initially 2
members shall be appointed for a term of 3 years each and 2 members for a term
of 2 years each. Thereafter, each member shall serve a term of 3 years.”
Alderman Boguskie seconded the motion; the votes were 4 ayes Aldermen Poole,
Karn, Boguskie and Potter. 2 nays, Aldermen Frink and Adams. Motion passed 4-2
VI.
Discussion of a Proposed UDO and Code of Ordinance Revisions
Mayor Howard asked if the Planning Board submitted a recommendation pertaining
to revisions. Alderman Poole acknowledged that the Planning Board written
minutes serves as their recommendations. (Reference June 7, 2010 Planning Board
Minutes)
Alderman Poole stated there are discrepancies in the City’s Code and Unified
Development Ordinance i.e. text changes, who has authority, whether or not all
applications should be sent to review committees and attendance issues. The UDO
addressed missing 25% of meetings and the City Code stated 30%, and whether to
use the verb “shall” or “may.”
Alderman Adams questioned the purpose of review committees and prolonging the
application process. It is his belief that the City Planner should make the
decision. Alderman Poole explained that the Planning Board reviews the
application(s) in its entirety and may elect to send them to a review
committee.
Alderman Karn referenced Article 12. Zoning and Conditional Use Permit Approval
Section 12.5 (b)   stated the change is the Planning Board may with the
approval of the Administrator (Planning Director) appoint a review committee to
report at the next regularly scheduled meeting. Change being the Planning Board
is to get the approval of the Administrator for an item to go to a review
committee. The Aldermen on the Committee voted that the Administrator should
give the approval for a review committee. The Planning Board members believed
that the Planning Board should give the approval to appoint a review committee.
The Planning Board however recommended that a vote be held of the Board to
determine if a review committee should be appointed. The question is who
decides whether a review committee is appropriate.
Mr. Buddy Barnes, member of the Planning Board stated a review committee’s
purpose is to review applications and/or make a recommendation to assist the
applicant in meeting the UDO requirements so the Planning Board can make a
recommendation to the Board of Aldermen. Their goal is not to prolong the
process because they operate on a sixty (60) day schedule. The Planning Board
needs to be independent in selecting whether or not they can go to a review
committee.
Alderman Karn noted that he has attended several meetings and in some instances
committee reviews have worked and other things have not been in the purview of
a Planning Review Committee, citing storm water as an example.
City Manager Thornton stated that the table of permitted uses allows specific
uses in each zone which is handled at staff level. PUD’s and subdivisions
should go before the Planning Board, and if necessary appoint a review
committee.
Alderman Potter questioned if applications meet UDO requirements, why go before
the Planning Board? Mr. Thornton stated that Section 12-5 was placed in the UDO
when the City had no Planning Director.
Alderman Potter stated if an item goes before the Planning Board, then they
should have the right to vote on whether or not it should go to Committee, but
if an item meets the requirements of the UDO, this should be handled by staff.
The Planning Board should review the larger projects and be able to decide if a
committee review is needed.
Mayor Howard asked who makes the determination on what should go before the
Planning Board. Amy Nelson, City Planner stated Article 12: Section 12-
5 Application Review Procedure describes the process.
Ms. Tish Hatem, Chairperson of the Planning Board during pre-agenda meetings
with staff, it is recommended whether or not an item should be sent to
committee.
Mr. Fred Guerrina, member of the Planning Board stated some of the Planning
Board members have expertise in many areas and as a result, can be an asset in
assisting staff.
Alderman Karn and Poole reiterated that items can still go to review committee
if recommended, but believes every project does not need to go before a review
committee.
Mr. Dale McPherson stated that the Planning Board is trying to insure that
everything coming into the City is in compliance with the Unified Development
Ordinance
Alderman Poole stated the Planning Board did not agree with either option and
developed its own recommendation; the Committee’s vote was divided.
Alderman Karn motioned, seconded by Alderman Poole to accept text changes to
Section 12-5 Application Review Procedure and change the wording in 12-5(a) by
deleting approval and inserting recommendation of the Planning Board and/or
approval by; and 12(b) insert with approval of the administrator going to
review committee. The votes were 3 ayes ; Aldermen Karn, Boguskie and Poole. 4
nays : Aldermen Adams, Frink, Potter and Mayor Howard. Motion failed 4-3
Article 3, Section 3.1 Membership and Vacancies 
Alderman Poole explained under Article 3, Section 3-1 Membership and Vacancies,
the UDO states a vacancy shall exist on the Planning Board if a member is
absent from 25% or more of the Board’s regular meetings. The Planning Board
Operations Procedures Committee included special meetings, workshops and
committee meetings. The vacancy “may” be declared and filled by the Board of
Aldermen instead of “shall.” (Planning Board recommended the verb “may” and to
eliminate special meetings and committee meetings from the attendance
requirements. The Committee recommended “shall” and special meetings and
workshops should be included.
Alderman Adams motioned to accept the Planning Board’s recommendation, seconded
by Alderman Frink. Discussion: Alderman Karn read an excerpt from the UDO which
stated “faithful attendance at the meetings of the Board is considered a
prerequisite for the maintenance of membership on that Board. A vacancy shall
exist on the Board if members are absent from 25% of the meetings.” The
Committee members believe workshops and committee meetings should be included.
Discussion: Alderman Adams and Frink opposed dismissing members without
consideration due to sickness/work. Alderman Potter stated all meetings should
be included. Alderman Adams amended the motion to include regular, special,
workshops and committee meetings to be included in the 25%.  The vote was 4
ayes, Aldermen Adams, Frink, Potter, and Mayor Howard. 3 nays, Aldermen Karn,
Poole, Boguskie. Motion passed 4-3
Alderman Poole recommended the same language in Section 3-1 for Section 3-2,
Rules of Conduct which will make it consistent. Alderman Potter motioned,
seconded by Alderman Frink to use the same language in Section 3.1. The vote
was 4 ayes, Aldermen Potter, Frink, Adams, and Mayor Howard. 3 nays, Aldermen
Poole, Karn, Boguskie. Motion passed 4-3
Alderman Poole stated in Section 3-2 (a)  the call for applicants to fill the
vacancy will be made immediately after the offending member is dismissed. The
dismissed member may apply for reinstatement by submitting an application for
the vacant position . Motion by Alderman Poole to include this change, seconded
by Alderman Potter. Vote unanimous
Section 3.3 (a) Meetings: Alderman Poole stated these procedures will
be followed “in the event that a quorum will not exist, the Chairperson in
consultation with the administrator will advise board members and the public
accordingly.” Alderman Karn motioned to accept the change, seconded by Alderman
Poole. Vote unanimous.
Section 3.3 (f) Alderman Poole noted changes which accommodate computer files.
Motion to approve by Alderman Boguskie seconded by Alderman Poole. Vote
unanimous.
Section 3-5 Basic Studies referenced release of information from all City
officials to Planning Board. Change verb from shall to “may.” Alderman Boguskie
noted there are some records that cannot be released. He motioned to approve
the word “may”, seconded by Alderman Karn. Vote unanimous.
Section 3-7 Zoning Ordinance (b) deleted from “time to time” which is an
editorial change. Alderman Karn motioned to accept deletions 3-7 (b) and 3-7
(a) from time to time, seconded by Alderman Boguskie. Vote unanimous.
Section 3-9 Urban Renewal, no change.
Section 3-10 Public Utilities, Committee recommended deleting due to the
ambiguity this is not a state requirement. Alderman Karn stated deleting this
section does not exempt the City from going before the Planning Board on
projects. Alderman Karn motioned to delete Section 3-10, seconded by Alderman
Poole. Vote unanimous.
Section 3-11(c) Miscellaneous Powers and Duties, Committee recommended
deleting employees because Planning Board does not have employees. Alderman
Poole motioned to delete the word “ or employees ,” seconded by Alderman
Boguskie. Vote unanimous.
Section 3-12 Planning Board Procedures for Reporting to the Board of Aldermen.
added “ working days” and “after approval by the Planning Board.”  Motion to
approve changes as written by Alderman Boguskie, seconded by Alderman Poole.
Vote unanimous
Section 3-13 Advisory Council and Special Committees, editorial change to last
sentence to “duties and responsibilities” Motion by Alderman Poole, seconded by
Alderman Frink, vote unanimous. Vote unanimous.
Section 3-13 (b) the terminology was clarified. No motion required.
Alderman Poole will re-write the wording and present it to the Board for Public
Hearing at the September meeting.
TDA Resolution - City Manager Thornton asked the Board to re-consider the
resolution to establish a TDA because a Public Hearing must be held prior to
adopting the resolution. Mayor Howard stated text changes had been made to the
resolution and the changes will be presented September 9 and Public Hearing
held.
ADJOURNMENT – 9:49 P.M.
Alderman Boguskie motioned to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Alderman Frink.
Vote unanimous.
______________________________
Mayor
_____________________________
City Clerk
SEPTEMBER 9, 2010
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN             REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
SEPTEMBER 9, 2010             6:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS (CITY HALL) SOUTHPORT, N. C.
 
PRESENT:             Mayor Robert D. Howard
            Aldermen Nelson E. Adams, Richard “Ed” Boguskie, Mary Ellen Poole,
            Ken Karn, Jwantana Frink and Vickie Potter
ABSENT:              None
STAFF PRESENT:       M. Alan Thornton, City Manager
                Regina W. Alexander, MMC-City Clerk
            Michael Isenberg, City Attorney
            Amy Nelson, Director of Planning
            Jerry Dove, Police Chief
            Heather Hemphill, Director of Parks & Recreation
            Patty Miller, Director of Finance
            Ralph Cardwell, Director of Public Services
            Gregory Cumbee, Fire Chief
            Neal Sage, Rescue Chief
            Charles Drew, Code Enforcement Officer
I.
Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
II.
Invocation
Alderman Potter welcomed everyone and delivered the invocation.
III.
Approval of Minutes – August 12, 2010
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Frink to approve the regular
meeting minutes of August 12, 2010. No discussion, the vote of approval was
unanimous.
ETHICS STATEMENT : Mayor Howard asked “if any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
IV.
Approval of Agenda
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to remove items IX- C Public
Hearing on occupancy tax and formation of Tourism Development Authority and X-
C,
City of Southport Occupancy Tax and formation of Tourism Development Authority
from the agenda. No discussion, the vote of approval was unanimous.
Alderman Karn requested to add discussion of the Brunswick Community College
Pottery Studio as agenda item X-i . Alderman Karn motioned, seconded by
Alderman Poole to approve the agenda as amended. No discussion, the vote was
unanimous.
V.
Public Comments
Gary S. Lawrence III of 111 East Bay Street representing Terry Lee, owner of
property at the corner of Caswell Avenue and Moore Street; stated the property
originally had two curb cuts and since the installation of City parking spaces
the curb cuts were eliminated. He asked the City to restore the curb cuts and
designate no parking in front of the lots.
Ernest Long  4172 Brookfield Way, co-owner of Bull Frog Corner asked the Board
to consider an alternative ordinance to allow obstructions i.e. signs, benches,
planters and merchandise on sidewalks as long as they do not prohibit the free
passage of wheel chairs and pedestrians in accordance with ADA standards.
Margaret Bishop of Margaret Rudd Realty spoke on behalf of Kay Jolliff, Real
Estate Broker stating if signs were placed within 36 inches of their building
this would leave six feet of space; but if they were placed near the curb where
trees are located and nobody walks; this would provide eight feet of
unobstructed space. The Board was asked to consider this alternative.
David McVey of 216 Willis Drive noted his volunteer work with the Visitor’s
Center and involvement with City Committees. He stated his belief that the City
does not spend enough money to support tourism. He noted that the Fort Johnston
Committee has met once and the Tourism Committee met three times, twice while
he was away. He stated his disagreement with the recommendation to establish a
Tourism Development Authority and increase the occupancy tax from 3-5%; and it
is his belief that some of the committees are ineffective in the way that they
operate.
Kendall Crews , 211 River Drive and owner of the Copper Shop questioned why
signs and sidewalks ordinances are being enforced when City staff has not
received complaints and other ordinances are on the books but not being
enforced. She cited several ordinances that are not enforced by the City.
Bobby Hart,  owner of the building at the corner of Howe and West 10th Street
asked that posts be removed that were installed on the side of the street where
the new fire headquarters is located because it is hurting business and
prohibiting trucks from backing up.
Lisa Botnick  of 302 North Howe Street and   owner of Baked with Love
questioned why benches can be allowed on public rights of ways and table and
chairs are prohibited in front of restaurants. She stated her lack of
understanding about the obstruction issue on sidewalks when sidewalks do not go
all the way through town. She also expressed offense to the Board holding a
meeting on Rosh Hashanah, the Jewish New Year.
Ben Styers,  representing the Southport Oak Island Chamber of Commerce read a
letter from the Chamber asking the City to adopt a more business friendly
ordinance which would allow business related items to be placed on sidewalks
during normal business hours which does not impede free passage of disabled
persons and pedestrians
Shirley Wilson of 502 Brunswick Street thanked the Board of Aldermen for their
representation and suggested that the Board enlist the help of an independent
third party from the N.C. School of Government to work with the Board in
mediating common ground because of the adversarial tone and lack of civility
during meetings.
Jim Clary of 301 East Bay Street stated he concurred with Mrs. Wilson’s
suggestion in obtaining a mediator for the Board and also recommended the Board
find a way to make the benches work and delay enforcement of the ordinance.
Penny Watkins , owner of Boo & Roos’ suggested City staff visit each business
to determine where signs should be located since each block of the City varies.
VI.
Committee Reports
Beautification Committee: Mayor Howard reported that the Beautification
Committee met and they are very optimistic about their charge.
Traffic & Transportation Committee: Report provided by Alderman Boguskie,
Chairman in agenda packet.
VII.
Departmental Reports
Departmental reports included in the Board’s agenda packet.
VIII.
Public Presentation
a)   Report from the 2010 Fourth of July Festival Committee- Don Parker
Mr. Don Parker, Chairman of the 2010 N. C. Fourth of July Festival Committee
reported July 2010 marked the 39th year of the festival since incorporation in
1972. He stated that the economic impact was difficult to assess but
conservative estimates showed that out of town visitors spent $5.2 million in
Southport and other areas. He stated that the City of Southport gains sales tax
revenue from vendors who generated over $51,000 for the budget. The Festival
Committee has 50 Committee Chairs, hundreds of volunteers, Board of Directors
i.e. City Managers of Southport and Oak Island. The Committee did not receive
any input or feedback that they were doing anything other than what the City
wanted them to do. He asked if there are other issues to be addressed that they
be presented to the Festival Board through the City’s membership.
Alderman Potter referenced the administrative agreement in 1999 with the
Chamber and questioned approval if Southport did not have any administrative
duties. Mr. Parker stated his understanding is when the Fourth of July Festival
was incorporated everything was inclusive in the Board’s responsibilities.
Mayor Howard explained that the Southport Fourth of July Festival was begun at
the urging of the Board of Aldermen in the 1960’s which was a partnership with
the town and community. In 1971-72 it became more regional and was incorporated
as the N.C. 4th of July Festival under Lt. Governor James B. Hunt. He stated
that the City always gave its blessings and participation because they saw the
value of the festival occurring in Southport. However, he was not aware of the
City having any specific administrative responsibilities, and the City
initially assigned staff to help in various areas of the event in the early
1960’s. Mayor Howard stated the Board minutes from this time may reference the
agreement in question, but he was not aware of any administrative functions.
Alderman Potter stated that there is some contention concerning the 4th of July
Festival because of the way merchants are being treated by vendors who are the
life blood of the City.
Alderman Boguskie suggested a meeting be held with the merchants and the 4th of
July Committee as previously discussed with Mr. Parker to address concerns. Mr.
Parker asked that ground rules be established and fair representation from
merchants in town. Mayor Howard stated that Aldermen Poole and Potter are
formulating a Committee with appointments forthcoming. Alderman Poole shared
with the Board that she had received calls from merchants who had some issues.
She and Alderman Potter discussed setting up a committee and will formulate the
purpose to have available at the next regular City Council meeting. They will
also meet with the merchants to find out what their issues are and schedule a
meeting.
Mayor Howard thanked the 4th of July Committee for their report and commended
the volunteers for their service.
Mayor Howard stated that some of the citizens in the audience were present due
to the Tourism Development Authority and occupancy tax being on the agenda but
removed. He asked if Board members wished to explain to the public why the item
was removed from the agenda.
Alderman Poole stated she voted for the motion initially. However, once the
information was reported in the media more citizens became aware of what was
being considered. She received several calls. It is her belief that more
information should be researched and reviewed before further consideration by
the Board.
IX.
Public Hearing
a)   Southport Minimum Housing Code Ordinance Minimum Text Amendment;
Division 3 – Housing Inspector Generally, Section 3-305, Service of Order;
Contents
Alderman Frink moved to enter Public Hearing, seconded by Alderman Poole, no
discussion, vote carried unanimously.
City Manager Thornton presented text amendment changes revising Section 3-305
Service of Order; Contents which is a change mandated by the State.
There were no public comments.
b)   Zoning Reclassification RZ 10-0819-01
Amy Nelson, City Planner explained the current zoning of Fort Johnston and the
future site of the Maritime Museum is zoned R-10 (residential single family).
Staff and the Planning Board recommends that the property be rezoned to open
space (OS) which is an area of special public interest that should be placed in
a zone protected from any development other than improvements or uses
undertaken by the City. This designation was selected because of government
use.
There were no comments from the public.
Alderman Frink moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to close the Public Hearing. No
discussion, motion carried.
Regular Session
Alderman Potter asked why the Planner did not go with the Cultural Conservation
District Zone. Ms. Nelson stated this zone would require many changes to the
zoning ordinance and other areas would be impacted which was not feasible. She
stated that Lowe -White and Franklin Square Parks will also be rezoned to open
space (OS).
Alderman Adams questioned the definition of the state that an occupant would
have to be one year of age to be considered an occupant of a dwelling. Attorney
Isenberg explained that the reference comes from a state law but the definition
only applies to criteria set forth by the Minimum Housing Code and nothing
else.
X.
New Business
a)   Consideration of Southport Minimum Housing Code Ordinance Text Amendment;
Div. 3-Housing Inspector Generally, Section 3-305, Service of Order; Contents.
Alderman Boguskie moved to approve the Minimum Housing Code Ordinance Text
Amendment; Div. 3-Housing Inspector Generally, Section 3-305, Service of Order;
Contents, as recommended by staff and the Planning Board, seconded by Alderman
Frink. No discussion, the vote of approval was unanimous. Passed 6-0
MINIMUM HOUSING CODE
SECTION 3-305
If, after notice and hearing, the Hearing Officer determines that the dwelling
under consideration is unfit for human habitation, he shall state in writing
his findings of fact in support of that determination and shall issue and cause
to be served upon the owner thereof an order.
1.    If the repair, alteration or improvement of the dwelling can be made at a
reasonable cost in relation to the value of the dwelling (the ordinance of the
city may fix a certain percentage of this value as being reasonable), requiring
the owner, within the time specified, to repair, alter or improve the dwelling
in order to render it fit for human habitation or to vacate and close the
dwelling as a human habitation; or habitation. The order may require that the
property be vacated and closed only if continued occupancy during the time
allowed for repair will present a significant threat of bodily harm, taking
into account the nature of the necessary repairs, alterations, or improvements;
the current state of the property; and any additional risks due to the presence
and capacity of minors under the age of 18 or occupants with physical or mental
disabilities. The order shall state that the failure to make timely repairs as
directed in the order shall make the dwelling subject to the issuance of an
unfit order under subdivision (4) of this section; or
2.    If the repair, alteration or improvement of the dwelling cannot be made
at a reasonable cost in relation to the value of the dwelling (the ordinance of
the city may fix a certain percentage of this value as being reasonable),
requiring the owner, within the time specified in the order, to remove or
demolish such dwelling. However, notwithstanding any other provision of law, if
the dwelling is located in a historic district of the city and the Historic
District Commission determines, after a public hearing as provided by
ordinance, that the dwelling is of particular significance or value toward
maintaining the character of the district, and the dwelling has not been
condemned as unsafe, the order may require that the dwelling be vacated and
closed consistent with G.S. 160A-400.14(a).
Adopted this the 9th day of September 2010.
/s/ Robert D. Howard
Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk
b)    Zoning Reclassification RZ 10-0819-01
Attorney Isenberg stated the Board must find that the re-zoning is consistent
with the Comprehensive Land Use Plan. Alderman Poole motioned, seconded by
Alderman Frink to adopt the resolution to rezone the property and find that it
is consistent with the Land Use Plan. No discussion, vote unanimous. Passed 6-0
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-62.jpg]
 
RESOLUTION APPROVING A REZONING REQUEST FROM R-10(RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT) TO OS
(OPEN SPACE DISTRICT) FOR 3.81 ACRES LOCATED AT 204 E. MOORE STREET, 103 S.
DAVIS STREET, 223 E. BAY STREET, AND PARCEL NUMBER 237LH048
THAT WHEREAS, the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance, other land
use ordinances, and a zoning map that control land development within both the
City’s incorporated areas and within its extraterritorial area; and
WHEREAS, in order to promote the public health, safety and general welfare and
to promote the best interest of the city and community, it is necessary for the
City Board of Aldermen from time to time to consider appropriate revisions,
modifications and additions to the city’s zoning map; and
WHEREAS, the City of Southport has filed an application for a zoning map
amendment requesting that 3.81 acres located at 204 E. Moore Street, 103 S.
Davis Street, 223 E. Bay Street and parcel number 237LH048 be rezoned from R-10
to OS; and
WHEREAS, the City Planning Director has prepared and submitted to the Planning
Board a favorable staff recommendation; and
WHEREAS, the Planning Board has considered this matter and has recommended that
this proposed rezoning be approved; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the NC General Statutes and city ordinances, a public
hearing, properly noticed, was held on September 9, 2010, before the Board of
Aldermen regarding this issue; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen hereby finds that this proposed rezoning is
consistent with the Southport CAMA Land Use Plan; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that this amendment is reasonable
and in the public interest in that (i) the proposed rezoning is consistent with
the intent of the CAMA Land Use Plan, (ii) the impact to the adjacent property
owners and the surrounding community is reasonable, and the benefits of the
rezoning outweigh any potential inconvenience or harm to the community, and
(iii) the allowed uses within the proposed zoning district are comparable to
the site’s current land uses;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that the
rezoning request for 204 E. Moore Street, 103 S. Davis Street, 223 E. Bay
Street and parcel number 237LH048, and alteration to the Southport Zoning Map
is hereby approved and adopted.
This 9th day of September, 2010.
/s/ Robert D. Howard
Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk
c)    Removed from `agenda (Occupancy Tax & TDA)
d)   Progress Report/Update on City of Southport Wastewater Flow Reversal
Project
Mr. Carter Hubard, Engineer (W.K. Dickson) reported that the sewer reversal
project is on schedule and budget. He stated that eighteen thousand linear
(18,000) feet of 16” force main was constructed with approximately 1700 linear
feet remaining for construction. The sewer plant at the end of West West Street
will be decommissioned and the pump station wet well and building has been
constructed on Sandy Lane; the pumps expected date of delivery is the end of
September.
e)   Annexation Feasibility Report Presentation
Mr. Jason Epley, Benchmark CMR Executive Vice President, John McHenry,
Professional Land Surveyor & GIS Coordinator, Von Hanson, Planning and Growth
presented the annexation feasibility report. It was explained that areas were
identified and two (2) options developed based on areas of potential
annexation.
Mayor Howard stated the next step is to hold a work session. Mr. Thornton, City
Manager encouraged the Board to read the report and carefully analyze the
information in order to be prepared to discuss the future growth and
development of Southport.
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to hold a special meeting on
Saturday, October 2, 2010 at 9:00 a.m. to discuss annexation. No discussion,
vote carried.
f)   Proposed Ordinance to amend Chapter 16, Streets and Sidewalks, Code of
Ordinance of the City of Southport
City Manager Thornton communicated that the following ordinance has been
modified to allow businesses to place objects on the sidewalks provided that
said items do not extend more than 36 inches into the sidewalk and do not
violate Section 16-7 of the Code of Ordinance and meet ADA requirements.
In response to a question by Alderman Adams, Ms. Nelson, City Planner responded
that 36” from the building is better than 36” from the sidewalk because of ADA
requirements and it is more acceptable through ADA to place items against the
buildings.
Alderman Potter clarified that the City is talking about objects being near the
building not signs. Alderman Karn stated A-frame signs must be permitted and
they can be placed as shown on the diagram near the space on the curb. When
signs are permitted staff will make a site visit to the property and determine
the safest and best place to place the sign. A sign may be placed next to the
curb or building.
Alderman Poole stated the merchants have been given a good option to place
their wares on the street and it is her understanding that the sign shown in
the picture by Mrs. Bishop can be placed next to the building or curb if it is
permitted i.e. table and chairs which are objects are under the ordinance being
proposed.
Alderman Karn explained if food is served outside that this would require a
privilege license and other necessary permits and the area should be
delineated.
Alderman Potter stated the ordinance prohibits businesses from selling
merchandise outside; and if tables and chairs are placed on the outside to
serve food, it is the same premise.
Attorney Isenberg stated outside tables and chairs should be addressed under
the UDO under a special use permit, but changing the wording in the ordinance
may take care of this.
Alderman Karn stated that other municipalities allow a limited number of
sidewalk sales annually with no charge but the appropriate staff must be
contacted and information provided. This provision could be added to the UDO or
the City Code of Ordinances.
Alderman Poole stated if the amendment is approved that the next issue for the
UDO should be outside dining and method of enforcement.
Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to adopt the Ordinance
Amending Chapter 16, Streets and Sidewalks, of the Code of Ordinances adding
the words (ii) placing A-Frame signs on sidewalk or right of way where
specifically allowed under the Southport UDO effective September 10, 2010. No
discussion, the vote of approval was unanimous. Passed 6-0  
Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Potter to place a moratorium on
outside dining on public rights of way for ninety (90) days; this will continue
to allow outside dining while giving the Board time to address the issue under
the UDO. The votes were 5 ayes, Aldermen Poole, Boguskie, Adams, Potter, Frink.
1 nay, Alderman Karn. Passed 5-1
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 16, STREETS AND SIDEWALKS, OF THE CODE OF
ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT
BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport that Sections
16-8 and 16-10 of the Code of Ordinances are hereby amended to read as follows:
Sec. 16-8. Obstruction of public rights of way.
(a)   Except as specifically set forth in subsection (b) herein, it shall be
unlawful for any person to place or cause to be placed on any public street,
road, alley, sidewalk or other public right of way within the City any wall,
fence, gate, brick, stone, wood, rock, vegetation or other structure, material
or substance above the horizontal plane of the existing ground. In addition, it
shall be unlawful for any person to take any action whatsoever within any
public right of way which creates a hazardous condition or safety hazard or
which otherwise interferes with or obstructs in any manner the passage of
persons or vehicles upon or within said public rights of way or which
obstructs, interferes with or hinders lawful parking within any public right of
way.
(b) Nothing herein shall prevent any business or other legal entity located in
areas zoned CBD and BD from (i) placing objects which are not otherwise
prohibited under the Southport Code of Ordinances on that portion of a sidewalk
which is directly abutting the building occupied by such business or entity,
provided that said items do not extend more than 36 inches into the sidewalk
and do not violate Section 16-7 of the Code of Ordinances prohibiting the
display of goods, or (ii) placing A-Frame signs on a sidewalk or right of way
where specifically allowed under the Southport Unified Development Ordinance .
Notwithstanding this, however, no business or other entity may place or cause
to be placed any object on a sidewalk so as to violate the provisions of the
ADA regarding unobstructed clearance.
Sec. 16-10. Existing encroachments on rights of way.
In the event that the Southport code enforcement officer determines that there
exists any encroachment, obstacle, vegetation, wares, goods or other condition
within a public right of way or sidewalk in violation of Section 16-7 or
Section 16-8 of this Code or which interferes with the free passage of persons
or vehicles within said right of way or sidewalk, or which otherwise creates a
hazard to the public, said code enforcement officer shall attempt to identify
the person(s) responsible for said obstacle or encroachment. Upon
identification, the code enforcement officer shall notify in writing said
responsible person(s) who shall have seventy-two (72) hours from the date of
notification to remove said encroachment or condition. In the event that the
responsible party fails to remove said obstacle or encroachment within the time
allowed, and in addition to other remedies as allowed by law, the city may
promptly remove said obstacle or encroachment and shall charge the cost of said
removal to the party responsible for said obstacle, encroachment or condition.
In the event that the code enforcement officer is not able to identify the
responsible party, or if the condition or encroachment creates an imminent and
immediate danger to the public, the city may summarily remove said encroachment
or other condition within the right of way without notice.
This ordinance shall take effect on the 9th day of September, 2010.
City of Southport
/s/ Robert D. Howard
Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
g)    Consideration of Acceptance of Grant Award from NCDENR
Alderman Potter moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to accept a $5,000 N.C. Urban
and Forestry Grant from DENR to develop a management plan for the City’s legacy
trees. No discussion, vote unanimous. Passed 6-0
h)   Rescue Squad Grant Request for Discussion and Action
Alderman Karn referenced notes from a meeting that he and Alderman Boguskie had
with Brian Watts of the County’s Emergency Management Services. “The purpose of
the meeting was to get answers to questions regarding an alleged study to
explore the possibility of having Brunswick County Emergency Services take over
the Southport Rescue Squad, what the takeover would involve, and an overview of
how the EMS system works in Brunswick County.”
He explained the following points as the bottom-line:
·   The Southport Rescue Squad by all measures is doing a good job for our
community.
·   There is no feasibility study regarding the county taking over the
Southport Rescue Squad.
·   Mr. Watts has never received a call from the Mayor of Southport or any
individual regarding such a proposal. If even the idea of such a proposal were
being considered, he would know about it.
·   He strongly endorses the need for a new ambulance in Southport, going as
far as to say the current one is dangerous at speeds needed for emergency
medical transport.
Alderman Karn stated the issue is whether the County is going to take over the
Rescue Squad, which he does not believe will happen; or to approve the
submittal of the grant application and authorize the funds is why he proposed
to re-visit the issue with new information. He stated there is still time to
submit the grant application.
Alderman Adams questioned why the matter was revisited because it was acted
upon by the Board. He stated it is his belief that decisions such as this
should not be made by staff, but the County Commissioners with a report from
Mayor Howard.
Alderman Frink stated that the Board has not collectively presented a plan to
the County for consideration.
Alderman Poole commended Chief Sage for improving the Rescue Squad operations.
She explained during the Board’s retreat it was agreed upon to look at the
duplication of services, realizing that the Rescue Squad has a vehicle below
standards and a plan needs to be in place to address this need in order not to
place citizens and rescue members in a precarious situation.
Alderman Boguskie recommended sending the Commissioners a request and have
available at the October board meeting.
Alderman Karn stated the longer the City waits, the less chance the Rescue
Squad will have to get a grant for a new ambulance. They were told that the
county is cutting back on capital expenditures i.e. equipment and it was his
belief if this new information was presented to the Board, that it may change
minds about authorizing the grant application. If the grant application is
approved it could ultimately save the City money and lives.
Mayor Howard stated that it takes time to complete studies and cited several
others that are incomplete because of the time it takes to compile data. He
stated during budget talks in June, the Board recognized that citizens were
being double taxed and it was agreed upon to undertake a feasibility study
looking at duplication of services. He wants to insure that the report is
factual before it is submitted to the Board, and the County has an obligation
to respond to the City as it does other municipalities.
Alderman Karn motioned, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to designate $1800 for
the Volunteer Rescue Squad to apply for two grants for a new ambulance. The
vote of approval was 3 ayes, Aldermen Karn, Boguskie and Potter. 3 nays,
Aldermen Adams, Frink, Poole. Mayor Howard voted nay to break the tie. Motion
failed 4-3
Alderman Poole motioned, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to recess the meeting
until October 2, 2010 at 9:00 a.m. due to the lateness of the hour but hold the
executive session for the performance evaluation of the Clerk. Discussion:
Alderman Karn asked that the motion be amended to discuss the Pottery Studio
located in the Parks and Recreation Building on Atlantic Avenue. Vote
unanimous. Passed 6-0
i)   Discussion of Pottery Studio located in the Parks and Recreation Building
(Atlantic Avenue)
Alderman Karn stated that he visited the Parks and Recreation Department and
realized the need for staff to fully utilize their offices but unable to do so
because Brunswick Community College Pottery Studio is located in the building.
He was told that it would take six to nine months to move the studio depending
on state approval of the college plans.
Alderman Karn moved to direct the City Manager to notify Dr. Greiner, President
of Brunswick Community College that they have ninety (90) days to move the
Pottery Studio from the Parks and Recreation building, motion seconded by
Alderman Potter.
Alderman Frink requested to be recused because she is a member of the College
Board of Trustees.
Motion: Alderman Poole motioned to allow Alderman Frink to recuse herself from
the vote, seconded by Alderman Adams, vote unanimous. Passed 6-0
Discussion: City Manager Thornton in answer to a question by Mayor Howard
stated the college staff is aware of the City’s desire to fully utilize the
space. Motion Passed 6-0.
8:59 p.m. Executive Session
Alderman Poole motioned, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to enter executive
session to discuss the performance evaluation of the City Clerk. Motion passed
6-0
(Clerk excused)
___________________________________
Mayor
_______________________________
City Clerk
SEPTEMBER 30, 2010
SPECIAL MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN             SPECIAL MEETING
SEPTEMBER 30, 2010            6:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS (CITY HALL) SOUTHPORT, N. C.
 
PRESENT:             Mayor Robert D. Howard
               Aldermen Nelson E. Adams, Richard “Ed” Boguskie, Mary Ellen
Poole,
                Ken Karn, Vickie Potter
ABSENT:              Alderman Jwantana Frink
STAFF PRESENT:       M. Alan Thornton, City Manager
                Regina W. Alexander, MMC-City Clerk
            Michael Isenberg, City Attorney
            Patty Miller, Finance Officer
I.
Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Howard called the special meeting to order at 6:00 p.m. pursuant to
notice duly advertised and posted.
II.
Invocation
The invocation was delivered by the Mayor.
III.
Rules and Procedures for the Board of Aldermen
Alderman Karn referenced the Rules of Procedures adopted by the Board on July
31, 2010 setting forth rules in the manner meetings should be conducted. He
discussed rule #9 as referenced below:
Rule 9. When the Presiding Officer Is in Active Debate
If the mayor or other presiding officer becomes actively engaged in debate on a
particular proposal, he or she shall designate another council member to
preside over the debate. The mayor or other presiding officer shall resume
presiding as soon as action on the matter is concluded.
Comment: Good leadership depends, to a certain extent, on not taking sides
during a debate. On a small board this may not always be feasible or desirable;
yet an unfair advantage accrues to the side whose advocate controls access to
the floor. This rule is designed to insure even-handed treatment to both sides
during a heated debate. Ordinarily if the mayor is leading the meeting, he or
she should ask the mayor pro tempore to preside in this situation, but if that
person also engaged in the debate, the mayor should feel free to call on some
other council member in order to achieve the purpose of this rule.
Alderman Karn stated that any decision by the Presiding Officer can be appealed
by the Board. He stated an appeal motion and point of order cannot be denied
and cited rule 18.
Rule 18. Procedural Motions
(a)   Certain Motions Allowed. In addition to substantive proposals, only the
following procedural motions, and no others, are in order. Unless otherwise
noted, each motion is debatable, may be amended, and requires a majority of the
votes cast, a quorum being present, for adoption. Procedural motions are in
order while a substantive motion is pending and at other times, except as
otherwise noted.
Comment: Rule 18 reflects substantial departure from the rule in RONR. Each
procedural motion in RONR was reviewed to determine whether it was appropriate
for use by a small board; substantial modifications and deletions were the
result. The following enumeration of procedural motions is exhaustive; if a
procedural option is not on the list, then it is not available.
Procedural motions are frequently used to “act upon” a substantive motion by
amending it, delaying consideration of it, and so forth. They are in order
while substantive motions are pending as well as at other times.
In addition, as in RONR, several procedural motions can be entertained in
succession without necessarily disposing of the previous procedural motion. The
order of priority establishes which procedural motion yields to which—that is,
which procedural motion may be made and considered while another one is
pending.
The procedural motions are summarized in table form in the appendix. Note that
the appended table is intended only to provide a quick reference guide to the
motions; this rule and its comments should be consulted for a discussion of how
each procedural motion is used.
(b)    Order of Priority of Motions. In order of priority (if applicable), the
procedural motions are
Motion 1. To Appeal a Procedural Ruling of the Presiding Officer. A decision of
the presiding officer ruling a motion in or out of order, determining whether a
speaker has gone beyond reasonable standards of courtesy in his or her remarks,
or entertaining and answering a question of parliamentary law or procedure may
be appealed to the council, as specified in Rule 7. This appeal is in order
immediately after such a decision is announced and at no other time. The member
making the motion need not be recognized by the presiding officer and the
motion, if timely made, may not be ruled out of order.
Comment: Rule 7 allows the ruling of the presiding officer on certain
procedural matters to be appealed to the council. This appeal must be made as
soon as the presiding officer’s decision is announced, so this motion is
accorded the highest priority. See Rule 7 and its Comment for further
discussion of this motion.
Alderman Karn read the following comment by Fleming Bell from the School of
Government and noted that the Board’s own rules were violated by the Presiding
Officer in accordance with the rules and procedures adopted by the Board.
Comment: Good leadership depends, to a certain extent, on not taking sides
during a debate. On a small board this may not always be feasible or desirable;
yet an unfair advantage accrues to the side whose advocate controls access to
the floor. This rule is designed to insure even-handed treatment to both sides
during a heated debate. Ordinarily if the mayor is leading the meeting, he or
she should ask the mayor pro tempore to preside in this situation, but if that
person also engaged in the debate, the mayor should feel free to call on some
other council member in order to achieve the purpose of this rule.
Alderman Karn referenced Section 2. Of the Code of Ethics  “treating other
board members and the public with respect, and honoring the opinions of others
even when they disagree,” citing the manner in which his motion was refused. He
stated that it is important that Board members know the rules and follow them
and the presiding officer not minimize the amount of involvement in a debate.
IV.
Elimination of Street Access Existing Curb Cut at 102 South Caswell Avenue
Mayor Howard referenced the minutes from the Traffic and Transportation
Committee in the Board’s packet from the August 30th meeting. He read an
excerpt from a letter written by Terry Lee, owner of property at South Caswell
Avenue to the City asking that his two curb cuts be restored which allowed him
access to his property on Caswell and Moore, which was blocked by the City’s
new parking spaces. Mayor Howard stated he read the City codes, visited the
property and did not deem any conflict with honoring Mr. Lee’s request. He
asked the Board to give favorable consideration to Mr. Lee’s request to re-
establish the curb cuts.
Alderman Boguskie stated that the lots have been vacant for ten years. In his
opinion, one cut is sufficient until Mr. Lee decides to build on the property.
Alderman Karn stated one curb cut gives the owner adequate access to his
property.
Alderman Adams stated due to the size of the lot, the property would be more
desirable with two curb cuts.
Attorney Isenberg advised the Board that property abutting a public road is
entitled to legal access. Submittal of a site plan determines the number of
curb cuts required. Legally Mr. Lee is entitled to one curb cut, however;
submittal of a development plan will determine where the cuts are to be located
and the number that is legally entitled, but there is nothing that prohibits
the Board from giving him two cuts.
Alderman Boguskie motioned that the City provide one driveway cut at the corner
of Caswell and Moore. Motion died for lack of a second vote.
Alderman Karn moved to grant Mr. Lee both curb cuts, seconded by Alderman
Adams. No discussion, the votes were 4 ayes, Aldermen Karn, Adams, Potter and
Poole. 1 nay vote, Alderman Boguskie. Motion passed
V.
Discussion of Community Building for Board of Aldermen Meetings
Alderman Poole informed the Board that the Community Building is available for
Board meetings beginning January 13, 2011. Alderman Poole motioned to begin
January 2011 to hold Board of Aldermen meetings in the Community Building and
to proceed with the purchase of the audio system, seconded by Alderman Karn.
Discussion: Alderman Adams stated he supports the move on a trial basis but
would prefer to review the space analysis study before making the decision.
City Manager Thornton stated the Space Analysis Study will address making the
Aldermen Chambers ADA compliant.
Alderman Boguskie asked if there is a need to recess a regular meeting, will
the session be held at the Community Building or City Hall, which could pose a
problem and confuse the public.
Alderman Karn suggested enforcement of the handicap parking spaces at the
Community Building and stated the Board can always move its meetings.
Attorney Isenberg referenced Section 2:48 Regular Meetings: “There shall be a
regular meeting of the board of Aldermen at the meeting room of City Hall or at
such other place as may be designated on the second Thursday of each month at
6:00 p.m. unless otherwise specified, in which case notice shall be given in
accordance with applicable law.”  
Mayor called for the vote on the motion. 3 aye votes, Aldermen Poole, Potter
and Karn. 2 nay votes, Aldermen Adams and Boguskie. Motion passed
VI.
Annexation Feasibility Report
City Manager Thornton stated that there are two approaches for the annexation
initiative:
·   The comprehensive approach is the option to get across the discharge canal
and take in Smithville Woods Subdivision.
·   The phased approach would end on this side of the canal and not take in
Smithville Woods Subdivision.
City Manager Thornton referenced the annexation report prepared by Benchmark
CMR and stated if it is the Board’s desire to move forward with annexation, the
Board needs to select the option it wishes to consider. Staff looked at
revenues vs. expenditures and wastewater would be the most expense. There are
393 parcels within the comprehensive annexation area and 168 parcels identified
within the phased approach. Statistical data was given to the Board for review.
Alderman Karn asked about the resolution adopted May 14, 2009 amending the
sewer policy for properties annexed into the City by City initiated annexations
and who determines whether or not a septic system is functional. City Manager
Thornton responded that the County Health Department is responsible for
permitting and inspecting septic systems.
Attorney Isenberg stated the Board may change its policy on what the annexed
persons will pay, but if it is more, the policy would have to be in effect 180
days before the resolution of intent is passed.
Mayor Howard noted the City can gain up to $350,000 in revenues annually by
annexing.
In answer to question from Alderman Boguskie, City Manager Thornton responded
that the City has to make sewer available to annexed areas at an approximate
cost of $4.5 million.
Attorney Isenberg stated if the Board decides on annexation, the first step is
to adopt a resolution of intent which must contain 1) complete description of
the property to be annexed, 2) the date of public informational meeting, 3)
date of public hearing and 4) if the city’s current resolution of consideration
does not cover the entire area to be annexed, a statement that the annexation
cannot become effective until at least one year after the annexation ordinance
is adopted.
City Manager Thornton asked members of the Board to discuss and consider the
information presented because the Board must decide what is best for the future
of Southport including planned growth.
VII.
Adjournment
No further business, motion by Alderman Boguskie, seconded by Alderman Adams to
adjourn the meeting.
___________________________________
Mayor
___________________________________
City Clerk
OCTOBER 2, 2010
RECESSED SESSION
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN             RECESSED SESSION
OCTOBER 2, 2010               MEETING MINUTES
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS (CITY HALL) SOUTHPORT, N. C.
 
PRESENT:            Mayor Robert D. Howard
              Richard “Ed” Boguskie, Mary Ellen Poole
ABSENT:             Alderman Jwantana Frink, Nelson Adams, Ken Karn, Vickie
Potter
            Alan Thornton, City Manager
            Regina Alexander, Clerk
I.
Call to Order – 9:00 A.M.
Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 9 a.m. He appointed Alderman Poole
as Deputy Clerk. Mayor Howard stated due to the lack of a quorum, the meeting
could not be held.
II.
Adjournment
Mayor Howard adjourned.
_______________________________
Mayor
______________________________
Deputy Clerk
OCTOBER 14, 2010
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN             REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
OCTOBER 14, 2010              6:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS (CITY HALL) SOUTHPORT, N. C.
 
PRESENT:             Mayor Robert D. Howard
               Aldermen Nelson E. Adams, Richard “Ed” Boguskie, Mary Ellen
Poole,
                Ken Karn, Jwantana Frink and Vickie Potter
ABSENT:              None
STAFF PRESENT:       M. Alan Thornton, City Manager
            Regina W. Alexander, MMC-City Clerk
            Michael Isenberg, City Attorney
            Amy Nelson, Director of Planning
            Jerry Dove, Police Chief
            Heather Hemphill, Director of Parks & Recreation
            Patty Miller, Director of Finance
            Ralph Cardwell, Director of Public Services
            Gregory Cumbee, Fire Chief
            Neal Sage, Rescue Chief
            Charles Drew, Code Enforcement Officer
I.
Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
II.
Invocation
Jerry Dove, Chief of Police delivered the invocation.
III.
Approval of Minutes
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to approve the September 9,
2010 regular meeting minutes. Vote unanimous.
Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to approve September 30
special meeting minutes. Vote unanimous.
Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to approve the August 23,
special meeting minutes. Vote unanimous.
ETHICS STATEMENT : Mayor Howard asked “if any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
IV.
Approval of Agenda
Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to approve the agenda as
amended under IX- New Business. Vote unanimous.
j.   Change of meeting date for November (Boguskie)
k.    Discussion of Home Occupation (Poole)
V.
Public Comments
The following persons addressed the Board about enforcement of the sign
ordinance:
·   Jeff Ward, contractor
·   Phil Hemphill, owner of Olde Southport Village Inc.
·   Fred Guerrina, resident and planning board member spoke about the Planning
Board and its relationship with City officials and staff.
·   Letiticia Inman, produce vendor
·   Debbie Chirdon,
·   Delane Wilkerson, 1226 Howe Street
·   Joanne Duncan, 1226 Howe Street
VI.
Committee Reports
Alderman Karn presented a Power Point presentation showing GovOffice Cost
Proposal for the City’s Website which specializes in government websites. Amy
Nelson, Director of Planning will seek a second proposal, and afterwards a
recommendation will be forthcoming.
RECESS – 6:56 p.m.
Mayor Howard called for a 15 minute recess.
RECONVENED MEETING – 7:14 P.M.
VII.
Departmental Reports
Reports included in agenda packets.
VIII.
Public Hearing
Alderman Frink moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to enter Public Hearing for a
Zoning Amendment Text Change ZA 10-0907-01. Vote unanimous.
Amy Nelson, City Planner and the Planning Board recommended an amendment to the
Unified Development Ordinance which alters the current wording to provide more
houses for a property owner where empty lots exists next to a lot in question.
The change also makes provision for the protection of City easements so that
utility access is not compromised.
Proposed wording:
Note 4. Reduction of Minimum Front Yards In Residential Districts Where Lots
Along Block Face Have Less Than The Required Minimum. Where the front yards of
lots along the block face containing a subject lot are less than the minimum
front yard setback of the district, the average front yard setbacks of the lots
along the block face containing a subject lot shall be the minimum front yard
for such lot, with the exception that no house may be constructed over city
utility easements, including sidewalks.
Mr. Buddy Barnes, Planning Board member acknowledged support of the amendment.
No more comments, Alderman Poole moved to close the Hearing, seconded by
Alderman Potter. Vote unanimous.
IX.
New Business
a)   Consideration of Zoning Amendment Text Change ZA 10-0907-01
Alderman Boguskie moved to adopt the resolution amending the Unified
Development Ordinance, seconded by Alderman Frink. Vote unanimous.
RESOLUTION APPROVING TEXT AMENDMENT TO UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
THAT WHEREAS, the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance and other
land use ordinances that control land development within both the City’s
incorporated areas and within its extraterritorial area; and
WHEREAS, in order to promote the public health, safety and general welfare and
to promote the best interest of the city and community, it is necessary for the
Southport Board of Aldermen from time to time to consider appropriate
revisions, modifications and additions to the city’s land use ordinances; and
WHEREAS, the Planning Director has prepared and submitted to the Planning Board
a proposed amendment to Article 11 of the Southport Unified Development
Ordinance; and
WHEREAS, the Planning Board has considered this matter and has recommended that
this proposed amendment to the Unified Development Ordinance be approved; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to N. C. General Statutes and city ordinances, a public
hearing, properly noticed, was held on October 14, 2010, before the Board of
Aldermen regarding this issue; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen hereby finds that this proposed amendment to the
Unified Development Ordinance is consistent with the Southport CAMA Land Use
Plan; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that this amendment is reasonable
and in the public interest in that (i) this aspect of setbacks is not properly
addressed in the Unified Development Ordinance, (ii) this amendment is
necessary to promote orderly growth and development in the City of Southport,
and (iii) it is necessary
to promote the public safety and general welfare of the community by allowing
for the adjustment of certain front yard setback lines in the City.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that the
attached amendment and addition to the Southport Unified Development Ordinance
is hereby approved and adopted.
This 14th day of October, 2010.
City of Southport
By:
/s/ Robert D. Howard
Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk
AMENDMENT TO CITY OF SOUTHPORT UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT’ ORDINANCE
Text Amendment # 10-0907-01
An Ordinance Amending the City of Southport Unified Development Ordinance With
Respect to the Table of Area, Yard, Density and Height Requirements
AMEND:
ARTICLE 11: TABLE OF AREA, YARD, DENSITY AND HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS
SECTION 11-1: Notes to the Table of Area, Yard, Density and Height Requirements
Note 4. Reduction of Minimum Front Yards In Residential Districts Where Lots
Along Block Face Have Less Than The Required Minimum. Where the front yards of
lots along the block face containing a subject lot are less than the minimum
front yard setback of the district, the average front yard setbacks of the lots
along the block face containing a subject lot shall be the minimum front yard
for such lot, with the exception that no house may be constructed over city
utility easements, including sidewalks.
Adopted, October 14, 2010.
b)   Ordinance Amendment Chapter 2 Administration of the Code of Ordinances
City Manager Thornton explained that this amendment will make the Code of
Ordinance consistent with the Suggested Rules of Procedures adopted by the
Board on July 31, 2010. Alderman Poole motioned, seconded by Alderman Karn to
adopt the amendment. The vote of approval was unanimous.
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 2 ENTITLED “ADMINISTRATION” OF THE CODE OF
ORDINANCES
BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport that Section
2-54 of the Code of Ordinances is hereby amended to read as follows:
Sec. 2-54. Rules of Procedure
Except as otherwise provided by ordinance, the procedure of the Board of
Aldermen shall be governed by “Adopted Rules of Procedures Southport Board of
Aldermen.” In the event that a topic or matter is not covered therein, the
procedure shall be governed by Robert’s Rules of Order.
Adopted this the 14th day of October 2010.
City of Southport
/s/ Robert D. Howard
Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
City Clerk
c)   Acceptance of Infrastructure at Rivermist Planned Unit Development
City Manager Thornton presented the final approval for the infrastructure of
Rivermist Planned Unit Development to accept the streets and wastewater
collection system. Alderman Boguskie motioned, seconded by Alderman Frink to
accept the Rivermist infrastructure as proposed. The vote of approval was
unanimous.
d)   Change Order #1 Southport Wastewater Flow Reversal Project
Mr. Carter Hubard, Engineer (W.K. Dickson) asked the Board to consider approval
of a change order for the wastewater flow reversal project for a wet well
liner, additional silt screen fencing, concrete pad to cover foot print for the
generator. He stated that this is eligible under the Construction Grants and
Loans program. After answering questions posed by members of the Board,
Alderman Karn moved to approve the change order, seconded by Alderman Frink.
The vote was unanimous.
e)   Vision Awareness Month Proclamation – Lions Club
Alderman Poole moved to adopt a resolution proclaiming October as “Vision
Awareness Month.” Motion seconded by Alderman Karn. Vote unanimous. Harley
Lemons, President of the Lions Club thanked the Board for their support.
f)   Discussion of Vacant Department of Tourism Director’s Position
Mr. Thornton asked if the previously discussed job description for an Economic/
Tourism Director was acceptable to the Board and requested approval to re-
advertise based upon the new job description.
Alderman Boguskie stated economic developer was added to the job description
because there are businesses that could locate in some of the vacant shops
around town and this individual could assist in bringing small businesses to
Southport.
During discussion by the Board with City Manager Thornton on the duties, staff,
and expectations of an economic developer/tourism director; Alderman Poole
stated in the past a non-profit organization under the administration of the
City operated the tourism department and asked if there was a provision to
establish a non-profit organization and hire an individual to administer it
with budgeted funds. Attorney Isenberg stated that the City could participate
with an established non-profit. Alderman Poole stated she would like additional
information to determine if there are benefits to working with an established
non-profit organization.
Alderman Poole motioned, seconded by Alderman Frink to defer advertisement and
consider the possibility of non-profit involvement. Vote: unanimous.
g)   Way Finding Signs (Planning)
Ms. Amy Nelson, City Planner gave the Board a schematic showing the location of
the proposed location of the way finding signs. She explained that the
Department of Transportation did not approve the wording  lodging, dining,
shops and directional arrows pointing in more than one direction  and requested
Board input.   
Mayor Howard suggested getting the merchants input. Alderman Karn stated the
need for signs that point in both directions and suggested exploring options
where the City can be more creative if signs are located outside the state’s
jurisdiction, and suggested the possibility of establishing a Committee to
develop a proposal to determine if the City wishes to pursue state way finding
signs.
Alderman Poole stated the need for citizen input and agreed with the
possibility of establishing a committee. Alderman Frink suggested a workshop be
held to discuss the issue. Alderman Potter suggested allowing the citizens to
place their A-frame signs back out, if not on state right of way. Alderman
Boguskie referenced two locations that the City could use to install signs with
its own wording.
Mayor Howard and the Board agreed to refer this issue to the Transportation
Committee to discuss options for the way finding signs.
h)   Fourth of July (Poole)
Alderman Poole reported that she and Alderman Potter recommend to the Board the
purpose of the Fourth of July Committee which is to “identify the concerns of
local businesses and citizens related to the impact of the festival and to come
up with recommendations to the Board.” The following names were presented for
appointment by the Mayor: Aldermen Poole and Potter, Carol Baker, Darla
LeClerc, Emma Myles and Wayne Berry. Mayor Howard confirmed the appointees
subject to their acceptance. Alderman Poole stated that she will make contact
with the committee members.
i)   Discussion of Review of Southport Ordinances (Poole)
Alderman Poole noted that many of the City Ordinances are outdated and
requested staff to review the Code of Ordinances, present a plan for Board’s
review by January 2011, and the Board can make a decision at that time if a
committee needs to be appointed to study the ordinances identified by staff.
j)   November Meeting Change (Boguskie)
Alderman Boguskie noted that the regular scheduled meeting for November is
scheduled on Veteran’s Day. He motioned to hold the meeting on Wednesday,
November 10, 2011 at 6:00 p.m., seconded by Alderman Potter. Vote unanimous.
k)   Home Occupation (Poole)
Alderman Poole referenced the July 8 meeting when she discussed home occupation
(s) and requested staff and the Planning Board to come up with a definitive
definition for home occupations. She asked that until the recommendation from
the Planning Board is placed on the Board’s agenda and discussion by the Board
that the City holds in abeyance any applications for permitting or enforcement
of home occupations filed after July 8, 2010 and to stop all enforcement action
on any home occupations in existence at that date. The motion was seconded by
Alderman Karn. Vote unanimous.
X.
Other Business
Local Firefighter Relief Fund Board: Mayor Howard stated that there are two
appointments to be made to the Local Firefighter’s Relief Fund Board. Two
members are appointed by the Fire Department, two by the Board of Aldermen, and
one by the Insurance Commissioner. He stated that the Fire Department
recommended Mr. Alan Thornton, City Manager and Alderman Nelson Adams to
replace Paul Fisher. Alderman Poole motioned to appoint Alderman Adams and City
Manager Thornton, seconded by Alderman Boguskie. Vote unanimous.
Annexation: Mayor Howard stated that the Board needs to make a decision on
annexation and other issues and suggested a workshop be held.
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Potter to hold a special meeting
at 3:00 p.m. on November 10, 2010 to discuss annexation, way finding signs,
double taxation, and solid waste contract. Vote unanimous.
Alderman Boguskie encouraged citizen input on the solid waste contract.
XI.
City Manager Comments
None
XII.
Board Comments
Alderman Karn referenced the letter from Dr. Kim Jones, owner/CEO of Alganomics
in the Board’s packet asking for use of the Wastewater Treatment Plant upon
closing to be used as a business accelerator or incubator for green, renewable
technology business.
City Manager Thornton asked that staff assemble information regarding the
potential use of the property and to determine if this is a viable option for
the City to explore.
Alderman Poole asked that the request by Dr. Jones be placed on the November
agenda.
Alderman Poole stated the number of calls received from citizens concerning
electric rates and asked that a plan be compiled for the Board’s January
workshop with possible input from citizens. Mayor Howard asked that the
Electric Committee develop a proposed revision of the City’s electric rates in
preparation for the January workshop.
XIII.
Executive Session
Upon motion of Alderman Karn, seconded by Alderman Boguskie the Board went into
closed session to discuss the performance evaluation of the City Clerk.
(Clerk Excused – Minutes of closed session will be taken by Alderman Poole)
___________________________________
Mayor
_______________________________
Clerk
NOVEMBER 10, 2010
SPECIAL MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN             SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
NOVEMBER 10, 2010             3:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS (CITY HALL) SOUTHPORT, N. C.
 
PRESENT:       Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Ed Boguskie, Nelson Adams, Ken Karn (Present 3:12 p.m.)
         Vickie Potter, Mary Ellen Poole, Jwantana Frink (Present 3:16 p.m.)
ABSENT:      None
STAFF PRESENT:   M. Alan Thornton, City Manager
         Regina W. Alexander, MMC- City Clerk
         Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
         Amy Nelson, Planning Director
         Patty Miller, Finance Director
I.   Call to order – 3:06 p.m.
   Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 3:06 p.m.
II.   Invocation
   The invocation was pronounced by Mayor Howard.
III.   Ethics Statement
   Mayor Howard asked “if any member of the Board knows of any conflict of
interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect to matters on
the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
IV.   Adoption of Agenda
   Alderman Boguskie moved to adopt the agenda, seconded by Alderman Poole,
vote carried unanimously.
V.   Agenda Items
   a) Way Finding Signs – Amy Nelson, Planner
   Ms. Nelson gave the Board an update on conversation with local department of
transportation representatives about the use of the words lodging, dining and
shops on way finding signs. She stated that it is still under consideration by
NCDOT, which may result in approval. She explained that this is a new concept
and Southport is among the first to initiate this project. DOT asked for the
Board’s indulgence while this matter is still under consideration.
   It was Board consensus that the City’s Transportation Committee meets to
compile information and discuss installing way finding signs on City property
if a favorable response is not received from DOT.
   b) Solid Waste – (Waste Industries, Inc.) M. Alan Thornton, City Manager
   Mr. Thornton informed the Board that the City’s contract with Waste
Industries will expire December 30, 2010. The City proposes to continue solid
waste service with the company because they have been responsive to the needs
of the City. Representatives did express concerns about the volume of yard
debris within the City. They also discussed recycling and the possibility of
Brunswick County considering county-wide curbside recycling. Mr. Thornton
stated that the City currently has this service, but if the County assumes this
responsibility, the City can opt out of this provision in the contract.  He
communicated that staff discussed ways to help alleviate the volume of yard
debris by purchasing a chipper and providing the mulch to City residents. After
discussion, Alderman Karn moved to authorize the City Manager to proceed with
negotiations for the three year contract extension with Waste Industries,
seconded by Alderman Boguskie. The vote of approval was unanimous. Passed 6-0
   c) Annexation - City Manager
   The Board discussed the proposed annexation and its options. City Manager
Thornton encouraged the Board to consider what is best for the future of
Southport and growth. The options presented were the comprehensive approach to
get across Progress Energy’s discharge canal and take in Smithville Woods
Subdivision, and the phased approach which would end on this side of the canal
excluding Smithville Woods.
   Mayor Howard stated in his opinion the comprehensive plan is the most
feasible. He recommended the annexation process and a cost feasibility study be
a mutual effort with the people in the affected areas, the City keep impact
fees at a minimum, provides a grace period where reduction in fees will be
provided if people connect and abandon their current system.
   City Manager Thornton explained that the City has a standard residential
sewer impact fee schedule based on the number of bedrooms. Alderman Karn asked
about incentives to hookup to the system. Mayor Howard noted that the average
impact fee for a three bedroom house is $7200.
   Alderman Boguskie noted that W.K. Dickson provided an estimated cost
projection of $4.5 million to construct a gravity feed sewer system with
estimated payments of $334,000+ annually for twenty (20) years.
   Alderman Adams expressed concern that the annexation proposal did not
continue to East Leonard Street and divided Jabbertown Road. City Manager
Thornton stated he would discuss this with the consultant. Alderman Poole asked
if a lift station was included in the feasibility study for Jabbertown. City
Manager Thornton noted that two lift stations were included in the Smithville
Woods area and one for Jabber town Road.
   Alderman Karn asked if the policy adopted May 14, 2009 (see below) would
change with an incentive program. City Manager Thornton acknowledged that it is
the policy currently in place and would require discussion by the Board;
however as the policy stands if residential property is sold, the new owner
must connect regardless to the status of their private wastewater disposal
system.
   Attorney Isenberg explained the policy was written so that it would be known
and taken into consideration during the contract sale. In answer to a question
from Alderman Adams, Attorney Isenberg stated the Board could announce that
anyone in the City not connected to wastewater have a certain number of days to
connect at a reduced price.
RESOLUTION OF SOUTHPORT BOARD OF ALDERMEN AMENDING SEWER POLICY FOR PROPERTIES
ANNEXED INTO THE CITY BY CITY-INITIATED ANNEXATIONS
    BE IT RESOLVED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that Section 1 of the
sewer policy for properties annexed into the city by city-initiated annexations
adopted on Year2009Day12Month3lstransMarch 12, 2009, is hereby amended to read
as follows:
1. Any improved property which is annexed into the City of Southport by a city-
initiated annexation proceeding and which is already connected to a private
wastewater disposal system on the effective date of said annexation shall be
allowed to continue to utilize a currently functioning and permitted private
wastewater disposal system until such time as the first of the following events
occur: (i) the private wastewater disposal system fails, or (ii) the use of
property changes to a use which would require significant modification of the
existing private system, or (iii) the ownership of the property changes,
provided, however, that a transfer of ownership by conveyance or operation of
law without consideration to immediate family members shall not be deemed to be
a change of ownership under this provision, or (iv) any environmental issue
arises resulting in a determination of private wastewater disposal system
closure by the State of North Carolina, federal government or Brunswick County.
Upon the occurrence of the first of said events, the City shall notify the
property owner and said property shall be connected to the city sewer within 60
days from notification by City that connection is required. Connection shall be
made in accordance with the City’s policies and ordinances existing at the time
of connection, and the property owner shall pay all charges and fees in effect
at said time except as otherwise provided herein. Notwithstanding the above,
nothing herein shall be construed to require mandatory connection to the city
system for a private wastewater disposal system which is functioning and
permitted on the effective date of a city-initiated annexation for routine
repair and maintenance which does not involve significant modifications or
improvements to the existing system as determined by the appropriate permitting
agency or authority.
   Adopted May 14, 2009.
   Alderman Poole motioned, seconded by Alderman Frink to recuse Alderman Adams
from the vote due to property ownership in the proposed area. The vote of
approval was unanimous.
   Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to authorize the City
Manager to move forward with the comprehensive option for annexation and to
consider including the property between Jabber town and East Leonard in the
plan. The vote of approval was unanimous.
   d) Double Taxation
   Mayor Howard acknowledged Rescue Squad members and the EMS Director of
Brunswick County. He read a written report about double taxation and the need
to look at the duplication of services. Mayor Howard stated that citizens are
paying twice for some of the same services. He stated that his report is not an
attack against the Rescue Squad and the City will be looking at other areas to
cut back due to difficult economic times. He recommended a task force be
created by the City and County to look at double taxation issues.
(Excerpts from prepared statement below)
“Property tax duplication is a complex issue for city residents; which can
occur in several ways to include where city taxpayers who pay city and county
taxes are either denied, or charged extra for, certain county services.
Hopefully we can come together with the county to establish ways for the County
to reimburse cities for services they provide that would otherwise be provided
by the county. To this point the state has not recognized the importance of
double taxation. Do we need to ask our representatives who serve us in the
North Carolina General Assembly to pass a State Tax Duplication Law?
It seems prudent for the County to create a new City/County Double Taxation
Task Force to consider a reimbursement program for Brunswick County to prorate
to cities to partially offset the cost of duplicated services, particularly
regarding police, parks and recreation, rescue, capital for infrastructure such
as water & sewer and for road maintenance. Such an undertaking has been
successful with providing Fire Services throughout Brunswick County with the
development of Fire Districts. The task force could be composed of professional
staff from the county and the affected cities with responsibility to conduct a
feasibility study. Hopefully that study would demonstrate the need for and
provide that cities would be reimbursed based on what the county would have
spent if it performed the service in the municipality, tied to the county’s
actual, net, expenditures derived from property taxes. As an example, if the
county said it would spend $50,000 on a particular service, but Southport spent
$75,000 on that same service, the City would only receive a $50,000
reimbursement.”
“Serious consideration should be given to consolidating selective services with
Brunswick County. There’s an economy of scale to be had rather than services
being replicated by the city and the county especially when our citizens are
paying double for many services.
   Mayor Howard asked the Board to authorize him as Mayor to begin
conversations with Brunswick County officials using the expertise of other
Board Members and staff as needed. Alderman Potter recommended other Board
members be included in the meeting. Alderman Adams suggested the entire Board
attend the initial meeting in support of the Mayor and recommended Mayor Howard
take the lead. Alderman Boguskie volunteered to work with the Mayor. The Board
agreed by consensus that Mayor Howard move forward with his recommendation.
   Mayor Howard suggested that another Committee be established in December to
keep several issues running concurrently. Alderman Poole asked about the survey
referenced in the Mayor’s report and when it will be conducted. Mayor Howard
suggested areas be identified and prioritized in December and afterwards, send
out a survey to the citizens.
   e) Board Information
   Mayor Howard announced the Advocacy Goals Conference of the North Carolina
League of Municipalities to be held January 20, 2011 at 9:30 a.m. at the
Raleigh Convention Center.
   BARK (Brunswick Area Responsible Canine Owners): The Board acknowledged a
letter from Nicholas M. Smith of 11 Casper Road, BSL seeking the development of
dog parks in Brunswick County and they are proposing to develop a second park
in the Southport area.
Adjournment – 4:50 p.m.
   Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Potter to adjourn the meeting.
Vote unanimous.
                     __________________________________
                     Mayor
______________________________
City Clerk
NOVEMBER 10, 2010
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN             REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
NOVEMBER 10, 2010             6:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS (CITY HALL) SOUTHPORT, N. C.
 
PRESENT:       Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Ed Boguskie, Nelson Adams, Ken Karn
         Vickie Potter, Mary Ellen Poole, Jwantana Frink
ABSENT:      None
STAFF PRESENT:   M. Alan Thornton, City Manager
         Regina W. Alexander, MMC- City Clerk
         Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
         Amy Nelson, Planning Director
         Patty Miller, Finance Director
         Ralph Cardwell, Public Services Director
         Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
I.   Call to Order – 6:30 p.m.
   Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
II.   Invocation
   The invocation was pronounced by the Mayor.
   ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Howard stated “if any member of the Board knows of
any conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with
respect to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
III.   Approval of Minutes
   Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Potter to approve the October 14
minutes, the vote was unanimous.
IV.   Approval of Agenda
   Alderman Potter requested to add Section 2-26 of the City Ordinance ,
committees appointed by the Mayor to the agenda.
   Alderman Boguskie motioned, seconded by Alderman Karn “that the signup sheet
for those that want to speak at the public comment part of the agenda be handed
to the City Clerk who will then call the speakers as they have signed up. The
speaker shall have 3 minutes to speak. Time will be called by an appointed
Alderman. Clerk will appoint the Alderman. The public comment shall last no
longer than thirty (30) minutes. Those signed up and were not heard from will
be the opening speakers at the next Public Comment period. Should petitions be
presented, they are to be given to the City Clerk for verification of names and
addresses and will be addressed at a future board meeting if deemed necessary
by majority vote of the board members.”    Discussion: Mayor Howard expressed
regret at the Board’s need to limit the citizens whom they were elected to
serve. No further discussion, the vote of approval was unanimous. Passed 6-0
    City Manager Thornton asked that a tax release and the meter reading
contract be added to the agenda.
   Alderman Karn asked that IX-b, consideration of Zoning Amendment Text Change
ZA-10-1014-01 be removed from the agenda because legal time requirements were
not met which will give the Planning Board opportunity to submit a
recommendation.
   Alderman Boguskie moved to adopt the agenda as amended , seconded by
Alderman Frink, the vote was unanimous.
(Recess 6:13 – 6:16 p.m.)
   Mayor Howard recessed the meeting to allow citizens to signup if they wished
to address the Board during the public comment section of the agenda.
V.   Public Comments
   Jay Royal, owner of Royal Coach & Motor Company referenced non-compliance
letters received from the City about signs not being in compliance with ADA
requirements. (Letter in its entirety on file in the Clerk’s office)
   Dee Crews owner of the “No fog Website” stated that the citizens place their
trust in elected officials and asked that the Board start hearing their
constituents.
   Sandy Spencer, 410 West Brunswick Street and former Mayor spoke in support
of City Manager Alan Thornton.
   Ms. Ann Marie Weigeshoff read a letter on behalf of Paul Swenson, owner of
Provision Company opposing hiring a full time Director to oversee a Tourist
Authority. (Letter on file in the Clerk’s Office)
   Mrs. Kendall Crews, owner of No Fog Website addressed inaccuracies regarding
the website and the requirement by the City that a public record request form
be filled out before releasing information. (Statement on file in the Clerk’s
office)
   Mayor Howard read a letter from Ms. Maria Swenson regarding the enforcement
of the sign ordinance when businesses are struggling. (Letter on file in
Clerk’s office)
VI.   Committee Reports
   Beautification Committee: Mr. Roy Pender, Chairman of the Beautification
Committee reported on the Committee’s plans to place a Christmas tree at
Waterfront Park and their plans to coordinate lighting of the tree with the
Fire Department on December 7. Donations were received to pay for the lights
and tree. He stated that DOT officials met with the Committee to discuss plans
for NC 211 from Midway Road to NC 87. They are interested in the communities
including the Southport Beautification Committee working with them to receive
public comments on signage, sidewalks, bicycle paths and plantings.
   Website Committee: Alderman Karn gave handouts from two additional companies
for consideration to build the City’s website. A recommendation will be
submitted at the December meeting.
   Fourth of July Committee: Alderman Poole stated she met with Wayne Berry,
who has a wealth of information on the 4th of July Festival. Information is
being compiled for the first Committee meeting.
VII.   Departmental Reports
   Reports in agenda packets.
VIII.   Public Hearings
   Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Frink to enter Public Hearing for
the purpose of a ) zoning amendment text change ZA 10-1011-01, b) zoning
amendment text change ZA 10-1014-01.  The vote of approval was unanimous.
   a) Zoning Amendment Text Change ZA 10-1011-01
   Amy Nelson, City Planner explained that this change would alter the current
wording from the previous version of the UDO to allow more flexibility in
locating accessory structures by placing back some of the original wording to
allow accessory buildings within five square feet of property lines. Staff and
Planning Board recommend this action.
Remove the following:
(G) Accessory Structures. The total area of accessory structures shall not
exceed 75% of the rear yard area of the lot and shall meet all rear and side
yard setbacks of the district. No accessory structure shall be constructed
beyond the rear building line of the primary structure. A maximum of two (2)
accessory structures shall be permitted within the rear yard of any R-10, R-20,
MF, PUD, O-I, CBD, BD or HC zoned property.
Detached garages with a second floor accessory residential dwelling may not
exceed a ground level building footprint area of five hundred-thirty (530)
square feet.
Replace with:
(G) Accessory Structures. The total area of accessory structures shall not
exceed 75% of the rear yard area of the lot and shall meet all rear and side
yard setbacks of the district. However, accessory structures 530 sq. ft. or
smaller in any district may have setbacks of five (5) feet to a side or rear
property line. No accessory structure shall be constructed beyond the front
building line of the primary structure. A maximum of two (2) accessory
structures shall be permitted within the rear yard of any R-10, R-20, MF, PUD,
O-I, CBD, BD or HC zoned property.
Detached garages with a second floor accessory residential dwelling may not
exceed a ground level building footprint area of five hundred-thirty (530)
square feet and may be constructed behind the front building line provided they
are located no closer than 5 feet to any adjoining lot line.
   No public comments.
   b) Zoning Amendment Text Change ZA 10-1014-01
   Mayor Howard stated this agenda item was removed but the Public Hearing will
be held.
   Ms. Nelson stated that the text change is a correction to the wording in the
UDO where Holland Planning Consultants in error by their own admission had a
phrase in the definition that should have been removed under Article 13:
Planned Building Group Regulation.
Remove the following:
Planned Building Group. A residential project containing nine (9) or more
attached dwelling units, a residential project with attached dwelling units for
individual ownership; a commercial and/or institutional project located in an
O-I, BD, HC, or PUD zoning district; a commercial and/or office-institutional
project located within an O-I, BD, HC, or PUD zoning district involving the
construction of a building greater than seven thousand (7,000) square feet; a
commercial and/or office-institutional project within an O-I, BD, or PUD zoning
district involving the construction of more than one (1) building; or a
manufactured home park.
Replace with:
Planned Building Group. A residential project containing nine (9) or more
attached dwelling units, a residential project with attached dwelling units for
individual ownership; a commercial and/or office-institutional project located
within an O-I, BD, HC, or PUD zoning district involving the construction of a
building greater than seven thousand (7,000) square feet; a commercial and/or
office-institutional project within an O-I, BD, or PUD zoning district
involving the construction of more than one (1) building; or a manufactured
home park.
   Mr. Buddy Barnes, Planning Board member residing at 425 West West Street,
stated that he and former Mayor Sandy Spencer was on the Planning Board when
the UDO was written and he does not believe the current wording is a mistake.
Holland wrote three other town UDO’s and the wording is the same. Staff
proposes to have a Technical Review Committee (TRC) and there is no law or
statute that makes the TRC accountable to the public.
   Mr. Fred Guerrina, 710 Dale Avenue and member of the Planning Board
encouraged the Board to leave the wording as is to insure an open process.
   Ms. Sandy Spencer, 410 West Brunswick Street, former Mayor and Planning
Board member did not recall the section of the UDO that was in question.
   No further comments from the public, Alderman Karn moved, seconded by
Alderman Poole to close the Public Hearing and re-enter regular session. The
vote of approval was unanimous.
   a) Zoning Amendment Text Change ZA 10-1011-01
   Alderman Karn motioned, seconded by Alderman Adams to adopt the resolution
approving text amendment to the Unified Development Ordinance, Article 11. The
vote was unanimous.
RESOLUTION APPROVING TEXT AMENDMENT TO UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
   THAT WHEREAS, the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance and other
land use ordinances that control land development within both the City’s
incorporated areas and within its extraterritorial area; and
   WHEREAS, in order to promote the public health, safety and general welfare
and to promote the best interest of the city and community, it is necessary for
the Southport Board of Aldermen from time to time to consider appropriate
revisions, modifications and additions to the city’s land use ordinances; and
   WHEREAS, the Planning Director has prepared and submitted to the Planning
Board a proposed amendment to Article 11 of the Southport Unified Development
Ordinance; and
   WHEREAS, the Planning Board has considered this matter and has recommended
that this proposed amendment to the Unified Development Ordinance be approved;
and
   WHEREAS, pursuant to N. C. General Statutes and city ordinances, a public
hearing, properly noticed, was held on November 10, 2010, before the Board of
Aldermen regarding this issue; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen hereby finds that this proposed amendment to
the Unified Development Ordinance is consistent with the Southport CAMA Land
Use Plan; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that this amendment is
reasonable and in the public interest in that (i) this aspect of setbacks is
not properly addressed in the Unified Development Ordinance, (ii) this
amendment is necessary to promote orderly growth and development in the City of
Southport, and (iii) it is necessary to promote the public safety and general
welfare of the community by allowing certain accessory structures to have
decreased setback requirements in the City.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that the
attached amendment and addition to the Southport Unified Development Ordinance
is hereby approved and adopted.
      This 10th day of November, 2010.
                     City of Southport
                   By:   s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:
s/ Regina W. Alexander, Clerk
   b) Zoning Amendment Text Change ZA 10-1014-01/ Article 13: Planned Building
   Group Regulation removed from the agenda.
   c) City’s Wastewater Flow Reversal Project
   Mr. Carter Hubard of W.K. Dickson updated the Board on the sewer reversal
project. He stated that the contractor completed the force main pipe
installation towards the Sacred Heart Catholic Church, the pumps arrived and
installed. Estimated completion date of the project is January 2011. He
reported that several trees will be removed along NC 211 due to the
requirements of DOT that the force main has to be at least five feet from the
road.
   d) Presentation of Spatial Analysis/Facilities Assessment – John Sawyer
Architects
   Mr. John Sawyer, Architect presented a power point presentation on the
spatial analysis and facilities assessment. He stated that a questionnaire was
provided to departments and employees to assist in developing the facilities
assessment. The process used defined the needs with efficiency and cost
effectiveness considered. He stated that the City currently occupies 56,000 sq.
ft. of space and the need is 75,000 square feet. The report contains three
options depending upon the approach that the City would use. He stated the
options can be refined and pieced together, realizing that this is long range
plans. (Report on file in the City Manager’s Office)
   e) Resolution to Endorse City Application for the NCDOT’s Bicycle and
Pedestrian Planning Grant Initiative
   City Manager Thornton asked that the Board approve the resolution to apply
for funding consideration for an 80/20 match for a bicycle and pedestrian
planning grant.
   Alderman Adams asked if the grant was tied into construction of sidewalks.
Ms. Nelson explained that the grant money is to hire a consultant to write a
plan for pedestrian planning in the City where sidewalks would be constructed
in the future, which would assist the City with other grants to install
sidewalks. 
   Alderman Karn moved to adopt the resolution , seconded by Alderman Adams.
The vote was unanimous.
RESOLUTION TO ENDORSE THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT’S APPLICATION FOR THE NORTH
CAROLINA DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION’S BICYCLE AND PEDESTRIAN PLANNING GRANT
INITIATIVE
WHEREAS on December 3, 2010, the NCDOT Division of Bicycle and Pedestrian
Transportation will conclude the 2011 Call for Proposals to encourage the
development of comprehensive municipal bicycle plans and pedestrian plans; and
WHEREAS the Bicycle and Pedestrian Planning Grant Initiative is a state program
set up for municipalities all across the state of North Carolina; and
WHEREAS the City of Southport has an opportunity to apply for this 80%-20%
matching grant program in 2011; and
WHEREAS there is a strong desire in the City of Southport to enhance the
transportation planning by providing more choices in order to make the
community more pedestrian-friendly, bicycle-friendly, and a better place to
live; and
BE IT THEREFORE RESOLVED that the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport,
North Carolina in session assembled this 10th day of November 2010 endorse the
NCDOT Division of Bicycle and Pedestrian Transportation’s Bicycle and
Pedestrian Planning Grant Initiative application for the City of Southport,
North Carolina.
Adopted this 10th day of November 2010.
                        City of Southport
                     s/Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:
s/ Regina W. Alexander, Clerk
   f) Presentation of SMART Proposal – Dr. Kimberly Jones
   Dr. Kimberly Jones, owner of Alganomics, a company which produces biofuel
from algae asked the Board to consider leasing the wastewater treatment plant
to Alganomics once decommissioned. She proposes to create a saltwater fish farm
using the fish waste to grow algae.
The operation would be used for research and development in the biofuel
industry. She stressed the need for a collaborative process with public/
private partnerships with Alganomics applying for grants. Revenue could be
produced for the City with renewable energy and carbon credits. She explained
that the City cannot apply for these credits as a public entity, but a private
entity may and a percentage of the revenues returned to the City. She stated
that there is a lot of potential for bringing in green technology and new
businesses. A nine (9) year lease was proposed.
   Alderman Adams voiced opposition to the City leasing property for an
extended period. Mayor Howard asked about projected revenue sources and finance
projections, jobs, and how the industry will affect the environment. He stated
the Board needs to meet and discuss this request in order to make an informed
decision. Aldermen Poole and Potter stated the request is worth consideration.
   g) Representing the City of Southport without Board Approval -Alderman Karn
   Alderman Karn stated that he reacted to a situation when the Chairman of the
Planning Board sought advice from Professor Ducker of the UNC School of
Government pertaining to Planned Building Groups in the City’s Unified
Development Ordinance. He stated that the report was not presented to the Board
in the manner that he believed it should have been. He cited wording from the
Board’s Ethics Policy believing that it should pertain to any City Committee.
“We have a duty to disclose contacts and information about issues that we
receive outside of public meetings.”  Committees that report to the Board of
Aldermen should pass on information that is helpful to the Board. Citing again
from the Board’s Ethics Policy, “ We should demand full accountability for
those over whom the Board has authority.”  He communicated that the   report
was first discovered on a blog and a copy was given to the Mayor. He stated
that the Aldermen should have received the same report and asked that in the
future, the Board be provided information simultaneously.
   Mayor Howard stated that he was not aware that Chairman Hatem was going to
Chapel Hill. She did provide him with a report and he did not e-mail it to
Board members because it was his belief that as Chairman of the Planning Board,
she was doing “due diligence” and he commended her for taking the initiative as
a responsible Chairperson. Mayor Howard took responsibility for not sending the
e-mail to Board members until Alderman Boguskie requested a copy and it was
placed in each Alderman’s inter-office box.
   Mrs. Tish Hatem, Chairman of the Planning Board in response to Alderman Karn
read from a prepared statement. Due to the length of the statement, it will be
placed on file in the Clerk’s Office as a public document. (Statement on file
in the Clerk’s Office)
   h) Section 26-Code of Ordinance – Alderman Potter
   Alderman Potter motioned to amend Section 2-26 of the City Code of
Ordinances , seconded by Alderman Karn. Discussion: Mayor Howard asked if the
amendment included Committees appointed by the Mayor. Alderman Potter answered
affirmatively. Mayor Howard stated that he has the statutory right to appoint
Committees. Alderman Adams stated that there has never been a problem with the
Mayor appointing Committees. Alderman Potter stated that it is her belief that
Committees should be appointed by the Board. In answer to a question by
Alderman Frink, Attorney Isenberg stated that he was asked by some of the
Aldermen about this amendment. He contacted Professor Fleming Bell of the
School of Government and was told that this change could be made by majority
vote of the Board as long as it was in the City Code of Ordinances and not the
Charter. No further discussion, the votes were 4 ayes, Aldermen Potter, Karn,
Boguskie and Poole. 2 nays, Aldermen Adams and Frink. Motion passed 4-2
   AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 2 ENTITLED “ADMINISTRATION” OF THE CODE OF
ORDINANCES
BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport that Section
2-26 of the Code of Ordinances is hereby amended to read as follows:
Section 2-26. Committees Appointed by Board
   The Board of Aldermen shall appoint such committees and assign to them such
duties as the Board deems necessary for the proper and efficient operation of
the City government.
   Adopted this the 10th day of November, 2010.
                     City of Southport
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, City Clerk
   i) Tax Release
   Alderman Frink moved to approve a tax release in the amount of $6.04 for
Pacific Rim Capital Inc. Motion seconded by Alderman Poole. Vote unanimous
   j) Meter Reading Contract
   City Manager Thornton presented a contract renewal for Meter Reader Terrilyn
Bassett and recommended approval. Alderman Boguskie moved to approve the
contract, seconded by Alderman Potter. Vote unanimous. (Contract Incorporated
as Attachment #1)
X.   Other Business
   Mayor Howard informed the Board that he received a letter from Dr. Greiner,
President of Brunswick Community College requesting an extension of time to
move the Pottery Studio from the Parks and Recreation Building. After
discussion, the Board authorized the City Manager by consensus to offer the use
of the old fire station rent free to the college until their facility is ready
with utilities to be paid by the college.
XI.   City Manager Comments
   None
XII.   Board Comments
   Alderman Karn in reference to public comments stated that the City Manager
is obligated to enforce City Codes and staff cannot selectively enforce the
laws. The changes that were enacted improved the sign situation because A-frame
signs were not previously allowed.
   Alderman Frink referenced the adopted rules of procedures on page 4, number
4.
“Every member must have an equal opportunity to participate in decision making”
and asked Board members to include her in their decision making.
   Alderman Boguskie announced that the Mayors of various towns belonging to
ElectriCities have pledged to reduce electric rates. He also stated that the
Tourism Director is not a new position, is funded in the budget.
   The City Manager Thornton announced that energy audits will be conducted in
December and if citizens are interested; contact Public Services for an
appointment.
XIII.   Executive Session – Personnel (9:55 p.m.)
   Alderman Karn moved to enter closed session to review the personnel contract
of an employee, seconded by Alderman Potter. Vote unanimous.
Regular Session Reconvened – (10:58 p.m.)
   Mayor Howard announced that no action was taken in closed session.
XIV. Adjournment – (10:59 p.m.)
   Alderman Adams motioned for adjournment, seconded by Alderman Karn, the vote
was unanimous.
                     _______________________________
                     Mayor
_________________________________
Clerk
NOVEMBER 23, 2010
SPECIAL MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN             SPECIAL MEETING
NOVEMBER 23, 2010             6:30 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS (CITY HALL) SOUTHPORT, N. C.
 
PRESENT:       Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Ed Boguskie, Ken Karn, Vickie Potter, Mary Ellen Poole,
         Jwantana Frink
ABSENT:      Aldermen Nelson Adams
STAFF PRESENT:   Regina W. Alexander, MMC- City Clerk
         Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
         Amy Nelson, Planning Director
I.   Call to Order – 6:30 p.m.
   Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m. pursuant to public
notice issued and duly posted.
   The purpose of the meeting was for text amendments to the Unified
Development Ordinance with respect to:
   ·   Article 2: Basic Definitions and Interpretations
Section 2-2 Definitions of Basic Terms
   ·   Article 13: Planned Building Group Regulation
   ·   Article 13: Planned Building Group Regulation
Section 13-3(A): Business Planned Building Group Regulations
II.   Invocation
   Mayor Howard pronounced the invocation.
   ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Howard stated “if any member of the Board knows of
any conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with
respect to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
III.   UDO Text Amendments
   Alderman Boguskie noted that discussion was held during the Public Hearing
at the November 10 meeting. The special meeting was called to vote on text
amendments to the UDO. Alderman Boguskie motioned to adopt the resolution
approving text amendments to the Unified Development Ordinance as written with
the exception of paragraph four which the Planning Board submitted their
proposal within the thirty (30) day limit.
   Mayor Howard advised that the notice posted stated the purpose of the
meeting was to discuss text amendments and the public was not notified that
there would be Board action, ruling the motion out of order. Alderman Karn
appealed the ruling that the motion was out of order because the Board can act
if they choose to do so. The vote to overrule the Chair’s decision was 4 ayes,
Aldermen Karn, Boguskie, Potter and Poole. 1 no, Alderman Frink. Passed 4 to 1
   Alderman Boguskie restated the motion to adopt the resolution approving text
amendments to the UDO with the exception of paragraph 4 being rewritten since
the Board has received the Planning Board’s recommendation within the 30 day
notice, seconded by Alderman Karn. Discussion: Alderman Frink stated that the
provision in the UDO has not affected the City in the past six years and
questioned how this change will affect the citizens. Alderman Karn noted that
all documents are public and open to the citizens.
   Attorney Isenberg stated that he did not make a recommendation and gave the
Board four options for consideration.
   No further discussion, the votes were 4 ayes, Alderman Boguskie, Karn, Poole
and Potter. 1 no, Alderman Frink.
(Please note that this is the resolution that was re-written in its proper form
by Attorney Isenberg prior to the vote per motion of Alderman Boguskie)
RESOLUTION APPROVING TEXT AMENDMENTS TO UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
   THAT WHEREAS, the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance and other
land use ordinances that control land development within both the City’s
incorporated areas and within its extraterritorial area; and
   WHEREAS, in order to promote the public health, safety and general welfare
and to promote the best interest of the city and community, it is necessary for
the Southport Board of Aldermen from time to time to consider appropriate
revisions, modifications and additions to the city’s land use ordinances; and
   WHEREAS, the Planning Director has prepared and submitted to the Planning
Board proposed amendments to Articles 2 and 13 of the Southport Unified
Development Ordinance; and
   WHEREAS, the Planning Board has considered these proposed amendments and has
made a recommendation that this proposed amendment to the Unified Development
Ordinance not be approved; and
   WHEREAS, pursuant to N. C. General Statutes and city ordinances, a public
hearing, properly noticed, was held on November 10, 2010, before the Board of
Aldermen regarding these issues; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen, after considering the public comments and
recommendation of the Planning Board, hereby finds that these proposed
amendments to the Unified Development Ordinance are consistent with the
Southport CAMA Land Use Plan; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that these amendments are
reasonable and in the public interest in that (i) these changes are necessary
in order to clarify contradictory phrases in the Unified Development Ordinance,
(ii) these amendments are necessary to promote efficiency in the administration
of the ordinance, and (iii) they are necessary to promote the public safety and
general welfare of the community by the elimination of editing errors in the
City’s Unified Development Ordinance.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that the
attached amendments and additions to the Southport Unified Development
Ordinance are hereby approved and adopted.
      This 23rd day of November, 2010.
                     City of Southport
                     By: /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk
AMENDMENT TO CITY OF SOUTHPORT UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
TEXT AMENDMENT # 10-1014-01
An Ordinance Amending the City of Southport Unified Development Ordinance, With
Respect to Basic Definitions and Interpretations, and Planned Building Group
Regulation
AMEND:
ARTICLE 2: BASIC DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS
Section 2-2: Definitions of Basic Terms
Planned Building Group. A residential project containing nine (9) or more
attached dwelling units, a residential project with attached dwelling units for
individual ownership; a commercial and/or office-institutional project located
within an O-I, BD, HC, or PUD zoning district involving the construction of a
building greater than seven thousand (7,000) square feet; a commercial and/or
office-institutional project within an O-I, BD, or PUD zoning district
involving the construction of more than one (1) building; or a manufactured
home park.
ARTICLE 13: PLANNED BUILDING GROUP REGULATION
Planned Building Group. A residential project containing nine (9) or more
attached dwelling units, a residential project with attached dwelling units for
individual ownership; a commercial and/or office-institutional project located
within an O-I, BD, HC, or PUD zoning district involving the construction of a
building greater than seven thousand (7,000) square feet; a commercial and/or
office-institutional project within an O-I, BD, or PUD zoning district
involving the construction of more than one (1) building; or a manufactured
home park.
ARTICLE 13: PLANNED BUILDING GROUP REGULATION
Section 13-3 (A): Business Planned Building Group Regulations
Construction or Expansion of Planned Building Group. The following planned
building group regulations shall apply to a commercial and/or office-
institutional project located within an O-I, BD, HC, or PUD zoning district
involving the construction of a building greater than seven thousand (7,000)
square feet; a commercial and/or office-institutional project within a O-I, BD,
or PUD zoning district involving the construction of more than one (1)
building. Mixed uses are allowed in approved Business Planned Building Groups.
IV.   Adjournment
   Alderman Boguskie moved to adjourn, seconded by Alderman Karn. Vote carried.
                     ________________________________
                     Mayor
___________________________________
Clerk
DECEMBER 9, 2010
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN             REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
DECEMBER 9, 2010              6:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS (CITY HALL) SOUTHPORT, N. C.
 
PRESENT:       Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Ed Boguskie, Nelson Adams, Ken Karn
         Vickie Potter, Mary Ellen Poole, Jwantana Frink (Present at 6:25 p.m.)
ABSENT:      None
STAFF PRESENT:   M. Alan Thornton, City Manager
         Regina W. Alexander, MMC- City Clerk
         Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
         Amy Nelson, Planning Director
         Ralph Cardwell, Public Services Director
         Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
         Jerry Dove, Chief of Police
         Neal Sage, Chief VRS
         Greg Cumbee, Chief VFD
I.   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
   Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
    Mayor Howard expressed appreciation to the Fire Department and the
Beautification Committee for the lighting of the Christmas tree at Whittler’s
Bench and the Annual Santa Claus arrival sponsored by the Fire Department.
   A moment of silence was held in honor of former Mayor William Crowe, who
also served as Chief of the Fire Department.
II.   Invocation
   Invocation delivered by Mayor Howard.
   ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Howard stated “if any member of the Board knows of
any conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with
respect to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
III.   Approval of Minutes
   November 10, 2010 regular meeting– Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by
Alderman Karn to approve the November 10 regular meeting minutes, vote
unanimous.
   November 10, 2010 Special Meeting – Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by
Alderman Poole to approve the November 10 special meeting minutes, vote
unanimous.
   November 23, Special Meeting – Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman
Karn to approve the November 23 special meeting minutes, vote unanimous.
IV.   Approval of Agenda
   The following items were added to the agenda:
   ·   Financial report from the ABC Store and resolution for consideration
(Mayor)
   ·   Double Taxation Issue (Mayor)
   ·   Resolution to authorize the lease agreement with Brunswick Community
College regarding the old fire station
   Alderman Karn moved to approve the agenda as amended, seconded by Alderman
Adams, the vote was unanimous.
V.   Public Comments
   Ms. Shirley Wilson, 502 West Brunswick Street and a member of the Tourism
Committee encouraged the Board to consider filling the position of Tourism
Director.
   Mr. Woody Wilson, 502 West Brunswick Street encouraged civility among the
Board and citizens.
   Mr. Charlie Miller, on behalf of the Brunswick County Sheriff’s Department
thanked the City for its hospitality during the swearing in ceremonies for the
Sheriff and his staff held Monday December 6.
   Dee Crews, River Drive made comments about the electric fund and monies owed
the City by Dosher Hospital for electricity.
   Gary Kern, 249 Joshua’s Way stated the need for the Board to be responsive
to the needs of its citizens.
   Diane Boguskie, 502 West Brown Street spoke about the need for civility
among Aldermen, citizens, and the need for negativity to cease.
VI.   Committee Reports
   Electric Committee – Ralph Cardwell, Director of Public Services reported
the Committee met on November 18 and agreed to simplify and restructure the
rate schedule. ElectriCities staff will assist in review of the rate structure
and provide a recommendation to the Committee. The Committee also discussed a
systematic pole replacement program.
   Sign Committee – Alderman Karn reported that the Sign Committee will meet to
discuss way finding signs and requirements for the City to install its own
signs. Alderman Poole, a member of the Sign Committee stated that input from
the Beautification Committee will be solicited.
VII. Departmental Reports
   Reports placed in the agenda packets.
   Alderman Poole requested the Community Building Fee Schedule be placed on
the Board’s Retreat agenda for January to consider reduction in the rates for
Southport citizens.
VIII.   Public Hearing – 6:38 p.m.
   Alderman Karn moved to enter Public Hearing seconded by Alderman Poole to
consider UDO text amendment # 10-1118-01. Vote carried unanimously.
   City Manager Thornton stated the City was approached by representatives from
Dosher Hospital proposing to establish a helicopter landing site which will
allow emergency transport services.
   Ms. Amy Nelson, City Planner along with the Planning Board recommended
approval of proposed amendments to the Unified Development Ordinance to allow
the hospital to build an emergency air ambulance helipad.
   Mr. Edgar Haywood, CEO of Dosher Hospital spoke in support of the helipad
and the need for this service.
   No further comment, the Public Hearing was closed upon motion of Alderman
Poole, seconded by Alderman Frink. Vote carried.
IX.    New Business
   a) Consideration of UDO text amendment #10-1118-01
   Alderman Adams asked if the hospital would be able to sub-lease the helipad
to another company. Ms. Nelson stated the wording in the ordinance prohibits
this.
   Alderman Karn motioned to adopt the resolution approving a text change to
the Unified Development Ordinance regarding the helipad, seconded by Alderman
Boguskie. The vote of approval was unanimous.
   RESOLUTION APPROVING TEXT AMENDMENT TO UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
   THAT WHEREAS, the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance and other
land use ordinances that control land development within both the City’s
incorporated areas and within its extraterritorial area; and
   WHEREAS, in order to promote the public health, safety and general welfare
and to promote the best interest of the city and community, it is necessary for
the Southport Board of Aldermen from time to time to consider appropriate
revisions, modifications and additions to the city’s land use ordinances; and
   WHEREAS, the Planning Director has prepared and submitted to the Planning
Board proposed amendments to Articles 2, 10 and 12 of the Southport Unified
Development Ordinance; and
   WHEREAS, the Planning Board has considered this matter and has recommended
that this proposed amendments to the Unified Development Ordinance be approved;
and
   WHEREAS, pursuant to NC General Statutes and city ordinances, a public
hearing, properly noticed, was held on December 9, 2010, before the Board of
Aldermen regarding this issue; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen hereby finds that this proposed amendment to
the Unified Development Ordinance is consistent with the Southport CAMA Land
Use Plan; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that this amendment is
reasonable and in the public interest in that (i) the definition and regulation
of a hospital air ambulance emergency helipad should be added to the Unified
Development Ordinance, (ii) this amendment is necessary to promote orderly
growth and development for the O&I district where hospitals can locate, and
(iii) this amendment is necessary to promote the public safety and general
welfare of the community by allowing emergency helipads to be place in the
City;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that the
attached amendment and addition to the Southport Unified Development Ordinance
is hereby approved and adopted.
      This 9th day of December, 2010.
City of Southport
By: /s/ Robert D. Howard
Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Regina W. Alexander
    Clerk
    AMENDMENT TO CITY OF SOUTHPORT UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
TEXT AMENDMENT # 10-1118-01
An Ordinance Amending the City of Southport Unified Development Ordinance, With
Respect to Conditional Uses
AMEND:
1) ARTICLE 2: BASIC DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS
Section 2-2 “Definitions of Basic Terms” is hereby amended by adding the
following definitions in alphabetical sequence:
Hospital Emergency Air Ambulance Helipad
The word helipad is short for helicopter landing pad, a landing area for
helicopters. While helicopters are able to operate on a variety of relatively
flat surfaces, a fabricated helipad provides a clearly marked hard surface away
from obstacles where a helicopter can land. Helipads are usually constructed
out of concrete and are marked with a circle and/or a letter "H", so as to be
visible from the air. A helipad does not have fuel and service facilities and
does not maintain an air traffic controller. A helipad is for the sole purpose
of facilitating emergency medical transport via air ambulance.
2) ARTICLE 10: TABLE OF PERMITTED USES:
The Table of Permitted Uses is hereby amended by adding “Hospital Emergency Air
Ambulance Helipad”, and by placing a “C” entry in the O&I (Office and
Institutional District) column.
3) ARTICLE 12: ZONING & CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT APPROVAL
Section 12-19: Supplemental Regulations
“Regulations for Conditional Uses”, is hereby amended by adding a new section,
to be inserted in alphabetical sequence, to read as follows:
Use: Hospital Emergency Air Ambulance Helipad, Conditional Use District: O&I
Use – Hospital Emergency Air Ambulance Helipad. 
The following specific provision shall be met as minimum standards prior to the
approval of any business engaging in the establishment and use of a Hospital
Emergency Air Ambulance Helipad as a conditional use in the office and
institutional (O&I) zoning district.
(A) Compliance with federal regulations and standards.
The establishment of any helipad and the operation and flight of helicopters
within and above the corporate limits of the city shall at all times comply and
be in conformity with at least the minimum of all pertinent regulations and
standards promulgated from time to time by the Federal Aviation Administration
and other applicable federal agencies, with particular reference to applicable
federal air regulations, civil air regulations, and advisory circulars or
successor publications.
(B) Minimum altitude for helicopter flight.
Except when necessary for take-off or landing, no person may operate a
helicopter below the following altitudes:
(1) Generally.  An altitude allowing, if a power unit fails, an emergency
landing without undue hazard to persons or property on the surface. In
addition, each person operating a helicopter shall comply with the routes,
altitudes and other directions and regulations specifically prescribed for
helicopters by any rule or ordinance pertaining to the same. At no time shall a
helicopter be below 500 feet without special permission granted by the city
manager pursuant to authority and for cause described in this Article.
(2) Over congested areas.  Over any congested area of the city or over any open
air assembly of persons, an altitude of 1,000 feet above the highest obstacle
within a horizontal radius of 2,000 feet of the helicopter.
(3) Over other than congested areas.  An altitude of 500 feet above the surface
of open fields or areas upon which there are no trees, buildings or other
obstacles; provided, however, the helicopter shall not be operated closer than
500 feet to any person, vehicle, vessel, tree, tower or structure.
(C) Permit to operate helipad--Required; application; issuance; terms and
conditions.
(1) No helipad shall be established or used unless an application for the
establishment of the same shall have first been filed in writing with and
approved by the Board of Adjustment. Such application shall contain a
description of the proposed location, dimensions, obstruction clearance planes,
proximity and height of nearest buildings, trees, towers or other structures,
characteristics of the immediate area of such helipad and such other
information as the Board of Adjustment may require.
(2) If the Board of Adjustment finds and determines that the public safety and
convenience will be preserved and a nuisance or other burdensome condition will
not be created and that the public interest will not be adversely affected by
the establishment and use a helipad at such site and under such conditions and
that such use at such site will be in accord with pertinent zoning regulations,
it may issue a permit for the establishment and use of such helipad and the
operation of helicopters to and from the same. The Board of Adjustment may
impose such terms and conditions in the issuance of such permit as it
determines to be necessary in the promotion of the public safety, convenience,
health and welfare.
(3) No helipad shall be established or used unless such permit therefore has
been granted under the provisions hereof and the required insurance has been
issued and is in effect as required in this article.
(D) Same--Revocation.
In addition to any other remedies, the Board of Adjustment shall have the right
and authority to revoke any permit which may have been issued to establish and
operate a helipad within the city upon a finding, after notice, that any of the
provisions and requirements of this article have been violated or that the
public liability and property damage insurance required to be carried at all
times by the permittee has been canceled or for any reason has ceased to be in
full force and effect or if the operations at the helipad are performed in such
a manner as to become unduly hazardous or to constitute a nuisance or create
conditions which the Board of Adjustment may find to be contrary to the public
safety, health, convenience and welfare. Before any such permit may be revoked,
however, notice of at least ten days shall be given to the permittee and an
opportunity to be heard before the Board of Adjustment upon any charges shall
be given to such permittee.
(E) Insurance requirements.
(1) As a condition precedent to the issuance of a permit to establish and use a
helipad, the applicant for such permit shall first secure public liability and
property damage insurance in an insurance company licensed and authorized to do
business in the state in limits of not less than $250,000.00 for personal
injuries or death occasioned to one person, and, subject to that limitation for
one person, insuring against injuries or death in any one accident in limits of
at least $500,000.00 and for property damages in the sum of $500,000.00 for any
one accident; such applicant shall cause a certificate to be issued by such
insurance company certifying that such policies, as herein required, have been
issued and are in force and effect.
(2) This section shall not apply to the United States of America or any
military branch thereof, nor shall this section apply to the state, the North
Carolina National Guard, or any branch thereof.
(F) Compliance with safety and fire prevention standards.
As a further condition precedent to the issuance of a permit to establish and
use a helipad and to land and take-off helicopters from such helipad, the
applicant for such permit shall first secure written certification from the
City Manager that the helipad being considered complies with all safety and
fire prevention standards necessary for the safety of the operation and
adjacent properties and with the other provisions in this Article.
(G) Area and location of heliports and helipads.
(1) The minimum dimension of the area which describes an approved helipad shall
be equal to not less than 1 1/2 times the diameter of the rotors of the
helicopter.
(2) Approved helipads shall be so located that at least two obstruction
clearance planes are available which are compatible with the flight
characteristics of the helicopter. Obstruction clearance planes shall be
selected with due regard to the safety and convenience of persons and to the
safety of property on the surface.
(H) Prohibited acts generally.
It shall be unlawful to operate a helicopter within or above the corporate
limits of the city or to operate a helipad within such corporate limits:
(1) In a negligent or reckless manner so as to endanger the lives or property
of the operator or others.
(2) When the operator of such helicopter is under the influence of intoxicating
beverages, drugs, barbiturates or other stimuli or depressants.
(3) In violation of any of the provisions set forth in this section.
(4) Unless there is then outstanding and in full force and effect a valid
airworthiness certificate issued for such helicopter by the Federal Aviation
Administration or other federal agency with appropriate authority to issue such
certificate.
(5) Unless the operator flying such helicopter shall then and there have a
valid airman's certificate in full force and effect with the appropriate
aeronautical ratings issued by the Federal Aviation Administration or other
federal agency with appropriate authority to issue such certificate.
(6) To operate a helipad or a helicopter after the permit to do so has been
revoked.
(7) To operate a helicopter to or from any property or place within the city
other than a helipad in such location, with such dimensions and obstructions
clearance planes and such other safety provisions as comply with the federal
air regulations and the terms and conditions set forth in the permit issued by
the governing body of the city as hereinabove provided; provided, however, this
provision may be varied by the city manager in emergencies in which helicopter
operations at places other than at an approved helipad are necessary in
connection with the immediate extending of help because of a disaster or civil
disturbance or in performing an emergency errand of mercy or when the chief of
police or sheriff of the county certifies to the city manager that the use of
such helicopter in a special flight operation is urgent and immediately
necessary in aiding law enforcement or where there exists a special and urgent
necessity for the use of a helicopter at a place other than a helipad in the
preservation of the public peace, health, safety and welfare; but in no case,
emergency or otherwise, shall such helicopter be operated in violation of any
federal air regulations or upon the property of any person except after having
first obtained the permission and consent of such person owning or in control
of such premises that the same may be so used.
(I) Helicopter Operation
(1) No persons shall operate any helicopter within the limits of the City of
Southport unless there is outstanding for such helicopter a valid air-
worthiness certificate issued by the Federal Aviation Administration of the
United States of America.
(2) No person shall operate any helicopter within the limits of the City of
Southport unless there is outstanding for the person flying such helicopter a
valid airman’s certificate with appropriate ratings issued by the Federal
Aviation of the United States of America.
(J) Construction
Any person may construct, build, or designate space for a helipad in any area
of this municipality, where such use is permitted by the zoning ordinance,
subject to the following restrictions:
(1)   That if such helipad is to be elevated in any manner by being constructed
on a platform or on the roof of a building, such platform or building shall be
inspected and approved as structurally safe for use by a certified structural
engineer at the expense of the applicant.
(2)   That if such helipad is to be at ground level it shall either: (a) be
located in an enclosed area which does not permit access by the public at will,
or (b) be completely enclosed by a fence or wall, either temporary or
permanent, designed so as to provide safety for persons, vehicles or other
things in the area.
(3)   That the design, construction and physical characteristics of any such
helipad shall conform to applicable standards, rules and regulations of the
Federal Aviation Administration. That the plans and specifications of any such
helipad shall be submitted to the City Manager of the City of Southport for
examination and determination whether they conform to any applicable provisions
of the existing building code, and the necessary permits, if any are required
pursuant to such code, shall be obtained before any construction is begun.
(4)   Landing Pad. Every helipad located above ground level shall be provided
with a landing pad constructed in accordance with applicable Building Codes
and/or FAA Regulations.
(5)   Dust-Proof Cover. All helipad landing areas shall be composed of asphalt.
(6)   Lighting. Any helipad intended to be used for night landing or take-off
shall be provided with flood lights which are directed toward the ground and
windsock only, and with linear perimeter lighting of fluorescent or cold
cathode type, or by amber lights spaced around the helipad pad, not less than
20 feet apart.
(7)   All elevated helipads shall be restricted to helicopters not exceeding
the gross weight or load rating stated in the application for permit or
permits.
(8)   All helipads shall be marked in accordance with FAA criteria.
(K) Fencing
Every ground level helipad shall be fenced and protected to prevent entrance of
unauthorized personnel with a fence, a minimum of 36 inches in height, entirely
surrounding the minimum helipad area as established by the FAA; except that the
minimum fence height may be increased 12 inches for each 10 feet that the
landing area is extended beyond the minimum area required. Other fencing shall
be in accordance with applicable Building Code requirements, if any. Each side
of this fence shall be marked with an appropriate warning sign, two (2) feet by
two (2) feet in size.
(L) Minimum Area
No permit shall be issued for a helipad which does not meet the minimum area
standards of applicable FAA regulations.
(M) Safety Features Required
No permit for the operation of helipad shall be approved by the Chief of the
Southport Fire Department until the following fire prevention equipment is
provided at the site of the proposed helipad:
A set standpipe not less than two and one-half inches in diameter shall be
provided at each helipad landing site. This standpipe shall be provided with a
hose sufficiently long to reach the landing pad. This hose is to be equipped
with a spray nozzle and a water supply sufficient to efficiently operate same.
(1)   When a set standpipe cannot be provided, a Badger 50 lb. wheeled A,B,C
extinguisher unit: 50lb.A/B/C wheeled (30- A, / 160-B,C ) 1/2' hose 25' long w/
quick release handle and tires of hard rubber. shall be provided.
(2)   A telephone, other than a pay phone, shall be provided at each helipad
for emergency purposes.
(3)   Any elevated, or roof-top landing area shall be provided with two exits
as remote from each other as practical; at least one of the exits shall be a
stairway exit. The other exit may be an emergency exit leading from the area by
means of a ladder or a stairway on any landing area.
(4)   No smoking shall be permitted on any landing area.
(5)   No fueling or major repairing of helicopters shall be permitted at any
helipad.
(6)   Fire protection and other required emergency equipment shall be properly
shelter from weather.
No permit shall be approved by the Board of Adjustment until they are
sufficiently satisfied that no inordinate danger to the public will be created
by operation of helipads or by external load or temporary landing operations.
(N) Inspection
The Fire Chief, Police Chief or the Building Inspector, or any of their
authorized personnel, shall have authority to make periodic inspections of the
helipad to determine that all the requirements of a permit issued are complied
with.
(O) Revocation of License
The City Manager may revoke any permit issued herein if after investigation by
the Fire Chief, the Police Chief, or the Building Inspector, it is determined
that alteration of the physical profile of the area surrounding any helipad
renders its continued operation unsafe, or for the violation of any provisions
of law thereto pertaining, he may take appropriate action to suspend such
operation or impose such conditions upon continued operations as he may deem
fit.
(P) Proof of Aircraft Operation Liability Insurance or Bonding of Aircraft
Operator.
All operators of all aircraft using these facilities shall file proof of
possession of adequate insurance or other surety in the amount of
$1,000,000.00, in case of accidents, fires or personal or property damage
resulting from operation of their facility or aircraft.
(Q) Notice of Construction, Alteration or De-activation Required by Federal
Law.
All applicants shall give proper notice to the United States of America of
construction, alteration or de-activation as required by Federal Law on FAA
Form 7480-1. Proof of this notice shall be submitted with the application.
(R) Approach Zone
A helipad shall provide at least two approach lanes at least 90 degrees apart
for landing or takeoff, sufficiently clear of obstructions to provide a slope
of 1:8, approximately 7 degrees measured from the horizontal. Any curved
approach necessary due to the obstruction of buildings or structures shall
provide a turning radius of 600 feet. The flight approach to a helipad shall be
over open area and along major transportation corridors to the extent possible
   b) Consideration of Extension of Solid Waste Collection Services Agreement
with Waste Industries
   City Manager Thornton presented an amended contract with Waste Industries to
provide solid waste services for the City with twice per month yard debris pick
up.
   Alderman Karn moved to approve the solid waste contract to include twice per
month yard debris pick-up, seconded by Alderman Poole, vote unanimous. (Copy of
Contract Incorporated as Attachment #1)
   c) Consideration for the Selection of a Company to Design a New City Website
   Alderman Karn presented a summary of three (3) proposals for design of the
City’s website. After review with the Board, Alderman Karn moved, seconded by
Alderman Potter to authorize the Website Committee to finalize financing
details with Vision Internet and the contract will be submitted to the Board
before authorization of funds. The vote of approval was unanimous.
   d) Discussion of City of Southport TDA/Tourism and Economic Development
   Alderman Boguskie asked the Board to make a decision on the position of
tourism director because the City has been without one since April. The
position has been budgeted for ten (10) years and is needed to promote tourism
for Southport. As a result of the slow economy local businesses are hurting
financially and he referenced news articles from other areas experiencing
similar issues but they are pooling their resources to promote tourism.
Alderman Boguskie expressed uncertainty as to whether a Tourism Development
Authority was required when the 3% occupancy tax was initially instituted.
However, if an increase in the occupancy tax occurs, a TDA will be required and
the monies must be spent on tourism. The primary concern is to make a decision
on a Tourism Director.
    Alderman Karn emphasized comments by Alderman Boguskie and stated the
purpose of a Tourism Development Authority is to administer the occupancy tax.
The TDA was previously taken off the agenda so that the Board could determine
the effect a TDA would have on local businesses. He stated economic developer
was added to the job description so that the individual could work to retain
local businesses and bring in new ones. The Tourism Development Authority does
not need to be considered until the Board determines if it will increase the
occupancy tax.
   Alderman Karn then moved, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to authorize the
City Manager to hire a Tourism/Economic Development Director based on criteria
established by the Tourism Committee. Discussion:  City Manager Thornton
acknowledged that the position of Tourism Director had been advertised but
recommended re-advertisement because economic developer was added to the job
description. Alderman Adams stated he was not prepared to vote on the motion
because the agenda referenced discussion. Alderman Poole stated that she
requested to review how a non-profit organization handled tourism years ago,
and after research; it was her opinion that this is not the best to way to
handle tourism for the City.
    Alderman Karn withdrew the motion and asked that this issue be placed on
the January agenda, seconded by Alderman Boguskie. The vote of approval was
unanimous.
   e) Consideration of FY 09-10 Budget Amendments
   Alderman Karn moved to approve budget amendment #1, seconded by Alderman
Boguskie, motion carried.
Budget Amendment # 1
Fiscal Year 2010-2011
   BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session December 9, 2010, that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for revenues received from finance on the two (2) Police
Vehicles.
General Fund
                                                                                              
Budget       Budget As
                                                                                           
Amendment        Amended
Section I
A.   Revenues Anticipated
      Proceeds from Finance            $39,210         $4,062,710
B.   Appropriated Expenditures               $4,062.710
      Police Department                $ 982,817
      Capital Outlay/Vehicles            $39,210
ADOPTED this the 9th day of December, 2010
                        /s/ Robert D. Howard
                         Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk to the Board
   Alderman Boguskie motioned to approve budget amendment # 2, seconded by
Alderman Poole. The vote was unanimous.
Budget Amendment # 2
Fiscal Year 2010-2011
   BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session December 9, 2010, that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for moving funds within the Water/Sewer Budget because of
unexpected repairs. There will be no change in the total fund budget.
Water/Sewer Fund
                                                                                              
Budget           Budget As
                                                                                           
Amendment          Amended
Section V
B.   Appropriated Expenditures   
   Water Supply/Dist System          ( 5,000)
   Sewer Supply/Collection System      (10,000)
   Telephone & Postage             ( 700)
   R/M Equipment             ( 2,000)
   Water System R/M Dist. Sys          ( 2,000)
   Sewer System R/M Coll Sys           10,000
   Insurance & Bonding               4,700
   Chemical Analysis-Water          5,000
ADOPTED this the 9th day of December, 2010
                  /s/ Robert D. Howard
                  Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk to the Board of Aldermen
   f) Presentation of FY 09-10 Annual Audit
   Mr. Menton Padgett of Berry, Padgett & Chandler, PLLC, Certified Public
Accountants, presented the City’s Annual Audit report for fiscal year 09-10 of
which a copy is on file in the office of the City Clerk.
   g) ABC Resolution
   Mayor Howard provided a resolution template from Mr. Robert Jones, ABC Board
Chairman asking that it be placed on the Board’s January agenda for
consideration in support of North Carolina’s current public alcoholic beverage
control system.
   City Manager Thornton stated the City’s audit report showed revenues
generated from ABC sales and privatization of the ABC System should be
considered as a topic for the League’s Advocacy Conference scheduled in
January.
   h) Double Taxation
   Mayor Howard asked the Board to appoint someone to take the lead in
negotiations regarding double taxation with the County. The Board by consensus
agreed that Mayor Howard be the lead negotiator.
   i) Resolution Authorizing Lease of Old Fire Station to Brunswick Community
College
   The Board agreed to lease the old fire station to Brunswick Community
College. Alderman Karn moved to approve the resolution authorizing the lease
for a period of six months for $1.00, seconded by Alderman Potter, the vote was
unanimous.
Resolution Authorizing Lease
   WHEREAS, the City of Southport owns the old fire station building on E. Nash
Street that it does not currently have use for; and
   WHEREAS, Brunswick Community College desires to use said property for a
period of approximately 6 months; and
   WHEREAS, the City and Brunswick Community College have agreed upon a lease
under which the City will lease said property to BCC for a term of 6 months;
and
   WHEREAS, G.S. 160A-272 authorizes the City to enter into leases of one year
or less upon resolution of the Board of Aldermen adopted at a regular meeting;
and
   WHEREAS, the Board is convened in a regular meeting;
   NOW, THEREFORE, the Board of Aldermen hereby approves the lease of the City
property described above to Brunswick Community College and directs the Mayor
or City Manager to execute the lease on behalf of the City.
                     City of Southport
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard
                        Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
City Clerk
X.   Other Business
   Board Retreat: It was Board consensus to schedule the City Council’s annual
retreat January 29, 2011 at 8:00 a.m. City Manager Thornton gave each board
member a form for input to assist in developing the retreat agenda.
   Dosher Hospital: Mayor Howard informed the Board that he received a request
from the Chairman of the Hospital Board asking that representatives from the
City meet with the Hospital Executive Committee regarding the issue of the
hospital’s utility bill. Attorney Isenberg stated the Mayor and two Board
members can meet legally with the executive committee to discuss their issues.
   Alderman Karn moved that the Mayor and two Aldermen meet with the executive
committee of the hospital, seconded by Alderman Potter. Vote unanimous.
   Alderman Adams moved that Mayor Howard, Aldermen Karn and Frink comprise the
committee to meet with representatives from the hospital, seconded by Alderman
Pool. Vote unanimous.
   Volunteer Rescue Squad: Attorney Isenberg referenced Section 6-42 of the
City Code regarding Officers of the Rescue Squad. (See excerpt from Code of
Ordinances below)
Sec. 6-42. Officers
The officers of the rescue squad shall consist of chief, assistant chief and
other officers as shall be called for in the bylaws of the organization. The
officers shall be elected by the members of squad according to the bylaws of
said squad, and shall serve a term of one (1) year. The results of the election
of officers shall be reported to the board of aldermen for the city at their
regular December meeting of each year. Officers of the rescue squad are subject
to the control and supervision of the board of aldermen and may be removed from
office at any time by the board of aldermen at its discretion.
(Ord. of 2-10-77; Ord. of 2-8-07)
   Attorney Isenberg stated results of the votes from the Rescue Squad Election
were received and upon review by the City Manager and himself, it was
determined that there were 13 valid votes from members present. The proxy votes
were ruled invalid because they were not in compliance with Rescue Squad
Bylaws, Article VII-Section 2, Procedures. He stated with thirty-four (34)
squad members on the roster, one-third constitutes a quorum. Thirteen (13)
members were present and the valid election results were 7 for Neal Sage and 6
for Tammy Drew.
    Alderman Boguskie moved to accept the recommendation of the City Manager
and Attorney to confirm Neal Sage as Rescue Squad Chief in accordance with the
bylaws of the Rescue Squad. The votes of approval were 5 affirmative, Aldermen
Boguskie, Karn, Poole, Potter and Frink. 1 abstention, Alderman Adams. Motion
passed 6-0.
   Board of Aldermen Meeting Location: Alderman Frink voiced some concerns
about moving City Council meetings to the Community Building and asked that
this decision be re-visited in January.
   Christmas Bonus: Alderman Poole recommended that the Board consider giving
City employees a Christmas bonus. Alderman Frink motioned to approve $125 for
full time employees and $75 for part time. The vote of approval was unanimous.
XI.   Adjournment – 8:50 p.m.
   No further business, the meeting was adjourned upon motion of Alderman
Boguskie, seconded by Alderman Poole. Vote unanimous.
                  /s/ Robert D. Howard
                  Mayor
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
City Clerk
DECEMBER 23, 2010
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN             SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
DECEMBER 23, 2010             3:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS (CITY HALL) SOUTHPORT, N. C.
 
PRESENT:   Robert Howard, Mayor
      Mary Ellen Poole, Mayor Pro Tem
      Aldermen Nelson Adams, Ed Boguskie, Jwantana Frink, Ken Karn, Vickie
Potter
STAFF PRESENT: Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
          Patty Miller, Finance Officer
STAFF ABSENT: Regina W. Alexander, MMC
M. Alan Thornton, City Manager
I.    SPECIAL MEETING BUSINESS
Pursuant to notice advertised and posted, a special meeting of the Southport
Board of Aldermen was held on the above date.
Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 3:05 p.m. He appointed Alderman
Poole as Deputy Clerk. Mayor Howard stated that this was a special meeting for
the specific purpose of 1) change orders for the Fire Department and 2) Dosher
Hospital Electric Bill issue.
Change Order Requests for Emergency Center: Ms. Patty Miller, Finance Officer
summarized that change orders to construction contracts required approval per
North Carolina General Statute. The line item needs to be amended totaling
$231,705.83 for final invoice for John S. Clarke. She also summarized the
Contingency Capital Plan. $218,000 was unspent. Additional money remaining is
the architect fee. Mr. Boguskie verified that the furniture and equipment was
not listed in the change order. A motion was made by Alderman Karn and seconded
by Alderman Boguskie that the change order be approved as presented. The motion
carried unanimously. Alderman Boguskie made a motion, seconded by Alderman
Frink for the authorization of the budget amendment. The motion carried
unanimously.
Executive Session – 3:20 p.m.
Mayor Howard asked for an executive session with the attorney to discuss the
hospital issue. Alderman Potter made the motion to go into executive session,
seconded by Alderman Karn, the vote was unanimous.
Regular Session Reconvened – 4:15 p.m.
Alderman Karn motioned to go back into public session, seconded by Alderman
Boguskie. The vote was unanimous.
Mayor Howard stated that after discussion with the attorney and technical
advice from staff, that the Committee will discuss the issue further with the
Hospital Board.
Alderman Boguskie motioned to adjourn, seconded by Alderman Karn and motion
carried unanimously. Meeting adjourned by Mayor Howard at 4:30 pm.
                  _________________________________
                  Mayor
_________________________________
Deputy Clerk
          Prepared by Mary Ellen Poole, Mayor Pro-Tem/ Deputy Clerk
2011
JANUARY 13, 2011
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN                          REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
JANUARY 13, 2011                           6:00 P.M.
COMMUNITY BUILDING   , 223 EAST BAY STRESOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:       Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Ed Boguskie, Nelson Adams, Ken Karn
         Vickie Potter, Mary Ellen Poole, Jwantana Frink
ABSENT:      None
STAFF PRESENT:   M. Alan Thornton, City Manager
         Regina W. Alexander, MMC- City Clerk
         Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
         Amy Nelson, Planning Director
         Ralph Cardwell, Public Services Director
         Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
         Jerry Dove, Chief of Police
         Neal Sage, Chief VRS
I.   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
   Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
II.   Invocation
   Alderman Poole welcomed citizens and recited a prayer by poet, Maya Angelou.
   ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Howard stated “if any member of the Board knows of
any conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with
respect to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
III.   Approval of Minutes
   Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to approve the December
9, 2010 regular meeting minutes.
IV.   Approval of Agenda
   Alderman Karn motioned to amend the agenda adding the following items,
seconded by Alderman Poole. Vote unanimous.
·   Planning Board Membership and Vacancies
·   Update on City’s Website Contract
·   Rescue Squad Grant Application
·   Resolution Opposing Property Insurance Rate Increase
V.   Public Comments
   Mr. Woody Wilson of 502 West Brunswick Street urged the Board to make a
decision on hiring an Economic/Development Tourism Director.
VI.   Committee Reports
   Water and Sewer Committee: Alderman Boguskie gave the following report:
·   Sewer reversal testing successful
·   Burrington Avenue lift station needs repairs at an approximate cost of
$80,000
·   Some areas of the City’s collection system needs changing
·   City has inflow and infiltration problems. DENR has a grant that will help
Southport if selected and recommended staff go forward with grant submittal
·   Discussed clean up of present plant once the reversal is in place
·   Staff’s working on grease trap issue pertaining to floatable oil, fat or
grease where a grease trap is to be provided at the owner’s expense. With the
sewer reversal, the county can trace problems to its source and impose a fine.
City staff will visit businesses to insure compliance with City Code Section
19-100G
   Alderman Boguskie, as Chairman of the City’s Water & Sewer Committee stated
that it was recently brought to the City’s attention that the Clean Water
Management Trust Fund is withholding the balance of grant funds until the City
pays off land acquired for a spray field near Sunny Point. The City has an
agreement with CWMTF to repay the funds in three installments with no
stipulations. Carter Hubard of W.K. Dickson was present to explain further.
   Mr. Hubard reported that the contractor has completed the work and all
payments processed. He explained that the City is one-third to completing
repayment of the grant and the contractor has been paid six times. CWMTF is
withholding payment until the spray field loan is repaid in full. Mayor asked
that this be discussed later in the meeting.
VII.   Department Reports
   Reports placed in agenda packets.
VIII.   New Business
   a) Consideration of Resolution in support of North Carolina’s Current Public
ABC System
   City Manager Thornton explained if the ABC system is privatized, it would
affect approximately $236,238 in revenues generated annually by the City’s
local ABC System. He encouraged the Board to adopt the following resolution in
support of the current ABC System.
   Alderman Frink moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to adopt the succeeding
resolution. The vote of approval was unanimous. Passed 6-0 (Copy of resolution
will be sent to congressional representatives)
                Resolution In Support of North Carolina’s Current
Public Alcoholic Beverage Control System
WHEREAS, Chapter 18B of the North Carolina General Statues addresses the
regulation of alcoholic beverages in our state, and
WHEREAS, current North Carolina law establishes a uniform system of control
over the sale, purchase, transportation, manufacture, consumption and
possession of alcoholic beverages in North Carolina; and
WHEREAS, local government control is central to the current alcoholic beverage
control system; it is a local decision to establish and operate ABC stores, and
local government, acting through an appointed local ABC Board, balances the
control, profits and availability of spirits in its jurisdiction; and
WHEREAS, when local voters approved liquor sales for off-premises consumption,
the voters did not vote to allow liquor to be sold in private retail
establishments, but only through publicly controlled local ABC stores; and
WHEREAS, current law provides that profits from ABC store sales are returned to
local government, and this revenue stream is a critical source of local
government funding; and
WHEREAS, it is a priority to maintain current sources of revenue, especially in
the current challenging economic times; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the City of Southport does hereby support
the continuance of the Alcoholic Beverage Control System, and opposes any
efforts to privatize the ABC system, diminish local control or to diminish the
local government revenue stream afforded from local ABC store profits.
Adopted, this the 13th day of January 2011.
                  /s/ Robert D. Howard
                  Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
City Clerk
   b) Consideration of Tourism/Economic Development Director Position
   Alderman Karn motioned, seconded by Alderman Poole to authorize the City
Manager to advertise and hire a Tourism Economic Development Director. The vote
of approval was unanimous.
   c) Consideration of DENR Funding Assistance Application
   Mr. Hubard was present to answer questions about the City’s Wastewater
Collection System which has inflow and infiltration problems. Due to age, the
City experiences significant increase in flow after wet weather conditions.
DENR has grant funds available to assist the City by performing an inflow and
infiltration source detection of the City’s system. Alderman Adams noted that
work was performed on some of the lines several years ago; Mr. Hubard agreed
but noted not the entire system.
   Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to authorize staff to
proceed with the funding assistance application grant to DENR to assist with
the inflow and infiltration source detection program. The vote of approval was
unanimous.
   d) Discussion of Need for Central Pumping Station Refurbishment
   City Manager Thornton stated the City’s central pumping station needs to be
upgraded and refurbished as a result of deterioration. Staff recommends
refurbishment that would include replacement of structural elements and
installation of a polymer lining to extend the life of the station. He
explained with the sewer reversal, the pumping station will handle
approximately 120,000 gallons more effluent per day. He stated that staff made
an appeal to the CWMTF and Construction Grants and Loans for a reimbursable
expense, but was declined because it is not new construction. He asked the
Board to approve funding for the project estimated at $85,000.
   Alderman Karn moved to authorize staff to let bids for refurbishment of the
central pumping station, seconded by Alderman Adams. The vote was unanimous.
Passed 6-0
IX.   Other Business
   a) Volunteer Rescue Squad – Chief Sage
   Mayor Howard stated in conversation with Chief Sage he understands that the
City is in negotiations with the County to take over Rescue Squad services.
Chief Sage explained to him that it would take at least eighteen (18) months to
get to the point where the City would actually purchase an ambulance. Chief
Sage explained to him that there were several opportunities to abort the
process if the City decides to turn rescue services over to the County and he
requested that he appear before the Board.
   Chief Sage asked the Board to approve the submittal of a grant application
to apply for funds to purchase a new ambulance. The grant period begins
February 1 and is due the end of May. He explained that the $1,000 used to make
application for the grant would be applied towards the purchase of the
ambulance. If the City decides to turn rescue services over to the County; the
City would be able to abort the process because the award would not be
announced until the end of 2011. He noted some concerns about the current
condition of the squad vehicles and the ability to continue operating. Mayor
Howard asked the Board to support the initiation of the grant process.
   Alderman Boguskie motioned, seconded by Alderman Karen to authorize Chief
Sage to file the grant application for a new rescue squad ambulance, the vote
of approval was unanimous. Passed 6-0
   Chief Sage announced a blood drive on Monday, January 17.
   b) Consideration of Resolution against increase in insurance rates along the
Coast
   Mayor Howard presented a resolution for Board consideration because there is
a proposal to increase insurance rates along the coast. Coastal communities are
organizing an effort to oppose the rate increase and he encouraged adoption of
the resolution. Alderman Poole motioned to adopt the resolution opposing a rate
increase, seconded by Alderman Boguskie. The vote was unanimous. Passed 6-0.
RESOLUTION OPPOSING PROPERTY INSURANCE RATE INCREASE
WHEREAS, recent information indicates that property insurance rates are
expected to increase substantially in coastal North Carolina; and
WHEREAS, information indicates that the increase proposed will be
disproportionately higher for coastal property owners than others affected by
the rate increases; and
WHEREAS, coastal property owners have recently been affected by double-digit
insurance rate increases in the prior year; and
WHEREAS, further disproportionate increases will have an adverse impact on the
coastal economy, coastal property owners and communities;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that the City
of Southport is opposed to the pending anticipated property insurance rate
increases and will take any necessary action in opposition to the increases.
This the 13th day of January, 2011.
                  /s/ Robert D. Howard
                   Mayor
Attest: /s/Regina W. Alexander
City Clerk
   c) UDO Text Change
   Alderman Karn referenced the Special Meeting in August regarding some text
changes to the UDO. He stated a Committee comprised of Planning Board members
and Aldermen reviewed the UDO and several minor changes were made to the
administration.   Section 3-1. Membership and Vacancies were inadvertently left
out which should have been included. He presented for Board review the changes
and stated that it will be forwarded to the Planning Board for recommendation.
Alderman Karn stated that text changes to the City Code in Section 13-26 will
be on the Board’s February agenda and possibly Section 3-1: Membership and
Vacancies if a recommendation is received from the Planning Board.
   City of Southport UDO, ARTICLE 3. - ADMINISTRATIVE MECHANISMS
PART I. - PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD
Section 3-1: Membership and Vacancies (revised 2-11-10)
The planning board shall consist of seven (7) members and two (2) alternate
members. Five (5) members and one (1) alternate member shall be citizens and
residents of the city and shall be appointed by the Board of Aldermen. Two (2)
members and (1) alternate member shall be citizens and residents of the extra-
territorial jurisdiction of the city as described pursuant to G.S. § 160A-360
et seq. and shall be appointed by the county Board of Commissioners. The City
Clerk will advertise for vacancies when they occur. All candidates, including
board members whose terms are expiring and who are seeking reappointment, must
have a current application [no older than ninety (90) days prior the date of
vacancy] on file with the City Clerk’s office and must inform the Clerk they
wish to be considered for the vacant position. All applicants must be
interviewed by a committee, selected by the Board of Aldermen, consisting of
two (2) Board of Aldermen members and the Chairman of the Planning Board. If
the Chairman’s term is expiring and he/she wants to apply for reappointment,
another member of the planning board will be chosen for the committee by the
Board of Aldermen. The committee will make recommendations to the Board of
Aldermen for the vacant position(s). Any citizen who has filed a current
application and completed the interview shall be eligible for nomination.
Citizens who have not met these requirements are not eligible for nomination to
the planning board. The City Clerk will place the applications of all
candidates who meet these requirements in the agenda packets prior to the
meeting in which the selection(s)are made.  Alternate members shall not be
entitled to vote on matters before the planning board except when a regular
planning board member is absent from a duly called meeting. In that situation,
the alternate shall have the same privileges as the regular members and may
count for quorum purposes and vote if a regular member is absent. Vacancies
occurring for reasons other than expiration of terms shall be filled as they
occur for the period of the unexpired term. Faithful attendance at the meetings
of the board is considered a pre-requisite for the maintenance of membership on
the board. A vacancy shall exist on the board if a member is absent from
twenty-five (25) percent or more of the board’s meetings, special, workshops
and committee meetings within a twelve (12) month period of time and said
vacancy may be declared and filled by the Board of Aldermen. Extraterritorial
representatives shall have equal rights, privileges, and duties with the other
members of the board to which they are appointed, regardless of whether the
matters at issue arise within the city or within the extraterritorial area.
   Attorney Isenberg noted when the UDO was adopted, Chapter 13-26 of the City
Code should have been repealed which is why repetitiveness is apparent. Mayor
Howard asked Attorney Isenberg to work with Alderman Karn on the text changes
prior to submittal to the Planning Board. Mayor Howard asked that procedure be
established as to how a member will be selected if the Chairman applies for
reappointment to the Board.
   Alderman Adams suggested anything dealing with the Planning Board be
submitted to them as a courtesy in order to keep a good working relationship.
   d) Website Contract for Consideration
   Alderman Karn presented for Board review the contract agreement with Vision
Internet for development of the City’s website at a cost of $19,975.00. The
City will pay 20% of the cost when the home page design is completed,
information placed on the server and operating efficiently.
   e) Clean Water Management Trust Fund
   City Manager Thornton explained that the work on the sewer reversal plant is
one third away from completion and the City has outstanding invoices totaling
$679,611.69. However, the CWMTF is withholding funds because of condition #1 in
the contract stating that the CWMTF would withhold an equal amount of funding
for the sewer reversal project as collateral for what is owed on the spray
field property near Sunny Point. Staff did not recall the language in the
contract and as a result of the misunderstanding of words; monies are being
withheld to pay the contractor for work performed. There were no problems with
the first six payments. City Manager Thornton asked the Board’s help in
resolving this matter because the contractor needs to be paid for work
performed. Mr. Thornton stated that in conversation with the CWMTF staff has
agreed to meet with City representatives to consider other ideas in handling
this situation, possibly amending the contract.
   Mayor Howard, former Chair of the CWMTF asked the Board for approval to deal
with this situation by talking with CWMTF Board Chair and staff. He will ask
for repeal of the clause in the contract and release of funds. He spoke with
the Chairman of the CWMTF and they are amenable to working with the City. He
asked if the City had the funds to pay the contractor without putting the City
in a financial bind. City Manager Thornton presented the balance in the Water &
Sewer Reserve Fund showing sufficient monies to pay the contractor.
   Alderman Karn moved to pay the contractors from the Water & Sewer Reserve
Fund and to authorize the Mayor and staff to negotiate with the Clean Water
Management Trust Fund regarding the funding being withheld as collateral.
Motion seconded by Alderman Boguskie and the vote of approval was unanimous.
Passed 6-0.
X.   City Manager Comments
·   Reminded citizens of Martin Luther King Jr. Celebration on Monday, January
17
·   Blood Drive sponsored by the Southport Rescue Squad on Monday, January 17
·   City performing energy audits
XI.   Other Business
   Board Retreat - The Board agreed by consensus that the City Manager will
facilitate the Board’s Annual Retreat on Saturday, January 29, 2011. (Hood
Building at 8:00 a.m.)
   Hankinsville Road - Alderman Frink requested Board input on Hankinsville
Road where dirt is piled in the road blocking access for residents.
    Attorney Isenberg stated that the road is not a public right of way,
however; the property owners have prescriptive easement rights and may have
legal cause to open the right of way where the City does not. Alderman Adams
stated that he and Alderman Boguskie discussed some avenues that can possibly
be pursued by the residents also realizing that the City is limited, in what it
can do, however; the residents are taxpaying citizens and expect
representation. Attorney Isenberg stated that there is a dedicated private
easement beginning on 9th northward several hundred feet which ends. Residents
in this area have a valid private easement to access their property, but others
north to 11th Street do not. He explained in order for the residents to get
legal access, they would need to have a survey prepared of the right of way and
the property owners where the right of way goes over will have to voluntarily
deed an easement to the public or the City condemn the property and pay for it.
Alderman Boguskie stated Mr. Lee’s plan is take two lots which runs parallel to
11th Street and turn them to front 11th Street making two (2) lots out of the
four (4) non-conforming lots and these new lots will be less non-conforming. He
stated that the people need to agree to dedicate some land to make the twenty
(20’) ft. right of way, but if the City propose to make it a City street, a
sixty (60’) ft. right of way would be required. The only other choice is a
prescriptive easement. He spoke with some of the residents and they are
amenable to do what is necessary to obtain the right of way.
   Mayor Howard asked that a committee be appointed to assist the residents
with the process. Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Potter that a
Committee of Aldermen Adams, Boguskie and Frink facilitate issues on
Hankinsville Road with the residents. The vote was unanimous.
XII.   Board Comments
·   Alderman Karn reiterated the program for the Martin Luther King Jr. Holiday
Celebration.
·   Alderman Poole requested Alganomics be placed on the retreat agenda for
discussion
·   Alderman Boguskie asked that the Mayor and staff discuss with the CWMTF
   the section in the contract agreement about reduction in the matching funds
for the project as a result of cost under runs which the Board required that
these reductions in contracts be distributed proportionally in accordance with
terms of
   the contract agreement. He asked that this be looked into because if CWMTF
reduce funds, the City may come up short. Mayor Howard stated if the City’s
cost is less, the grant amount will be less.
   Dosher Committee:   Mayor Howard stated the City’s Committee and Dosher
Hospital’s Executive Committee agreed to terms of a settlement for their
electrical usage..
Attorney Isenberg explained that the agreement includes a certification which
will be signed and notarized as an affidavit. Dosher will pay the City of
Southport $125,786.80 within five days of execution and certification. He
explained that the City billed Dosher Hospital in the amount of $1,035,000 for
2004-2010 electrical usage. Due to a special provision in the general statutes,
Dosher Hospital qualifies as a government entity because it is supported by tax
dollars and has an elected Board of Trustees. Therefore the statute of
limitation is two years. The original amount of the bill did not contain a load
shed which affects the rates. Dosher staff certified that it load shedded
during this time period and the amount of $125,786.80 is the correct amount
owed the City for this two year period.
   Alderman Karn stated that the error did not cost the taxpayers because the
difference came out of surplus funds.
   Alderman Adams moved to authorize execution of the Settlement Agreement with
Dosher Hospital in the amount of $125,786.80, seconded by Alderman Poole. The
vote of approval was unanimous. Passed 6-0 (Settlement Agreement Incorporated
as Attachment #1)
   Meeting Location - Alderman Adams suggested that the Board of Aldermen
meetings be moved back to the Aldermen Chambers at City Hall. Mayor Howard
polled the Board and all were in agreement, however; Alderman Poole stated that
the acoustics is better in the Community Building, but would like to discuss
this further during the Board’s Annual Retreat.
   Mayor Howard stated that a request for work at City Hall in accordance with
the space analysis study would be on the Board’s retreat agenda including
annexation and Rescue Squad discussion.
   There was no further business to come before the Board.
XIII.   Adjournment – 8:25 p.m.
   Alderman Boguskie motioned for adjournment, seconded by Alderman Frink; the
vote of approval was unanimous.
               _____________________________________
                     Mayor
____________________________________
City Clerk
JANUARY 29, 2011
RETREAT MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN                          RETREAT MINUTES
JANUARY 29, 2011                           8:00 A.M.
DOSHER HOSPITAL BOARD ROOM (Hood Building) SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:   Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Aldermen Nelson E. Adams, Ed Boguskie, Ken Karn, Jwantana Frink
Mary Ellen Poole and Vickie Potter
STAFF:   M. Alan Thornton, City Manager
Regina W. Alexander, City Clerk
Patty Miller, Finance Director
Ralph Cardwell, Public Services Director
Heather Hemphill, Director of Parks and Recreation
Amy Nelson, Director of Planning
Jerry Dove, Chief of Police
Neil Sage, Rescue Chief
Greg Cumbee, Fire Chief
Call to Order 8:00 A.M.
Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 8:09 a.m. with Mayor Pro Tem Poole
delivering the invocation.
Mayor Howard asked that the following items be added to the agenda:
×   Impact fees
×   Planning Board and staff relations
×   Update on the Clean Water Management Trust Fund (CWMTF) issue on the Citys
grant
×   Rescue Squad/Brunswick County
×   Public private partnership on moving forward with greenways and special
projects
i.e. board walk
II.   Welcome and Overview of Objectives
City Manager Thornton stated that the objective of the retreat is to establish
goals and objectives for the year.
Written reports were provided by department heads and they were in attendance
if the Board had specific questions about their departments.
III.   State of the City
a) Financial Status and Outlook for FY 2011-2012
Patty Miller, Finance Director provided financial data with current year debt
obligations with a five year comparison. Mr. Thornton noted that all funds are
stable; however, he expressed concern about cash availability in the Water and
Sewer Fund due to issues with CWMTF Grant and shutting down the Wastewater
Treatment Plant. Aldermen were encouraged to establish goals, long range
visioning and planning for the City.
Mayor Howard recommended a workshop be held to review the audit and financial
reports. City Manager Thornton told the Board that local governments are unsure
of State shared revenues, therefore the fiscal year budget 2011-2012 will be
conservative in revenue projections.
b) Departmental Reports
Finance Department - Ms. Miller stated that the Citys telephone system is
currently linked with three carriers and staff proposes to consolidate the
telephone system under one company. EarthLink will provide the City with a
$10,000 telephone system for City Hall and a one- time credit of $6,000 if the
City signs the contract before the end of January. The system would integrate
with the Emergency Operations Center. The proposal will save the City $7,345
the first year, which is a four year contract. The City paid $40,000 last year
for telephone service.
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to authorize staff to
purchase a new telephone system. Discussion: Alderman Karn asked if rates would
increase within a year. Ms. Miller stated the project cost is $2,437 per month
with no monthly or quarterly maintenance fees. The vote was unanimous. Passed
6-0
Ms. Miller stated that she is working on plans to eliminate merchant service
fees on credit cards while giving customers the option of online payments for
utilities, taxes, Parks and Recreation and building inspection fees.
Review and Consideration of Brunswick Countys Proposal to Collect City Property
Taxes
Alderman Adams was opposed to the County collecting City taxes, believing that
citizens of Southport are accustomed to the personal service provided by the
Citys Tax Collector. Mayor Howard stated that he asked the Finance Director to
provide information for an analysis because the City is looking at ways to
consolidate services. Ms. Miller stated that the City would maintain control
for those citizens who may wish to schedule payment options or encounter
problems. Alderman Karn agreed that people like the personal service and asked
if the cost savings outweigh the personal service that is provided by the City.
Ms. Miller advised the Board of plans to update utility billing software to a
web version, and requested a training area for onsite training i.e. webinars in
customer service and utility software updates. She suggested installing cable
in the upstairs conference room for training webinars.
City Manager Mr. Thornton reviewed goals that were established at the 2010
Board Retreat which have been accomplished.
×   Spatial Analysis Facilities Assessment completed
×   Southports Growth and Future Development discussed
×   Relocation of City Council Chambers
×   Updating the Citys Personnel Policy accomplished
Communications System County approved a new 800 MHZ Viper Communications System
which will enhance communication capability for emergency services. If the City
does not convert immediately it will still have the means to communicate.
Police Department - Chief Dove stated the estimated cost for equipment to
interface with the Viper System for the Southport Police Department mobile
units is $2,200 with a minimum of 11 units. The portable unit cost is $2,800.
He is seeking a grant to help offset the costs.
Joint Drug Task Force The Police Department is understaffed and will not
participate in the Sheriffs Department Drug Task Force this year.
Fire Department - Chief Cumbee stated that the Brunswick County Fire Chiefs
will apply for a joint grant to aid departments in the purchase of radios to
interface with the new Viper communication system. The minimum cost is
approximately $80,000 for the fire department.
Chief Cumbee told the Board that the current ladder truck is 25 years old and
requested authorization to obtain pricing for a new truck; funds are budgeted.
The old unit will be used as a reserve vehicle.
The consensus of the Board was to authorize Chief Cumbee and City Manager
Thornton to obtain pricing proposals for a new ladder truck.
Rescue Squad - Chief Sage stated the Rescue Squads cost will be less to switch
over to the County system because the County EMS Director is proposing to
assist rescue units through grants and EMS monies. The current system will be
maintained because of mutual aid.
Public Utilities - The Board discussed with Ralph Cardwell, Public Services
Director the need for an assistant or another employee for his department. Mr.
Cardwell told the Board that the position requires an engineering degree and
the individual would be in the field with employees to learn the job. Alderman
Karn stated the City has need of a Maintenance Director to take care of City
buildings.
Parks and Recreation Alderman Karn suggested Ms. Hemphill, Director of Parks
and Recreation, prioritize capital improvements for Parks and Recreation.
IV.   Southport Visioning for 2011
a) Annexation Initiative
City Manager Thornton informed the Board that the proposed annexation plan as
initially discussed cannot be done because some of the land is not contiguous,
and does not meet the annexation requirements. Options A&B must be completed
before option C&D are considered. He informed the Board of proposed legislation
that could possibly place a moratorium on City initiated annexations and he
proposed to proceed with option A&B before this is implemented. If legislation
is enacted, it could have an impact on option C&D. The Board discussed in
detail the annexation process and the best way to proceed including the
provision of services. Within two years of the effective date of annexation the
City is required to provide services to the annexed areas at the Citys expense.
Capital costs will be involved in extending wastewater into the areas of A&B
where none currently exists. Mayor Howard stated once the City begins the
process and determines the costs and numbers, the City could possibly offer an
incentive for early hook-up. City Manager Thornton stated as staff works
through the process, the City can determine what options are available because
impact fees are factored into the overall costs of operation and maintenance,
extension of services, debt service, etc. which is a part of the annexation
report.
Alderman Karn stated the number one priority was annexation during the Advocacy
Goals Conference sponsored by the League of Municipalities.
Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Frink to authorize the City Manager
to work with consultants in moving forward with options A & B of the annexation
process. Discussion: Alderman Boguskie cautioned the Board about the costs
involved for annexation and if the moratorium is enacted by the General
Assembly, the Board should not hold the City Manager responsible for spending
monies. The vote of approval was unanimous. Passed 6-0
b) Facilities Assessment and Spatial Analysis
Mr. Thornton stated the study has been completed and the options include
projected costs. He asked the Board to prioritize goals and objectives.
Mayor Howard stated the greatest need is renovation of City Hall. He also
recommended the old jail annex be used for document storage of City records. He
proposed that the City request the Southport Historical Society to relinquish
the old jail annex to the City. Alderman Karn mentioned that the Friends of the
Library use it for book sales at least once a year.
Alderman Boguskie suggested an elevator be installed in City Hall.
Alderman Potter moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to authorize the City Manager
to contact the Southport Historical Society asking that the jail annex be
relinquished to the City within ninety (90) days to four months, and to move
the City Hall space study project forward to the point of construction
drawings. Discussion: Alderman Boguskie asked about the condition of the
building. Alderman Poole recommended the building be ready and available for
storage before renovations began.
Alderman Potter stated all areas of the spatial study needs to be looked at
citing possible grant monies to build a Parks and Recreation facility on the
eight (7.4) acres of land acquired by the City (Stevens Park). The Board agreed
that the most urgent need is City Hall. The vote of approval was unanimous on
the motion.
Mayor Howard suggested the City Manager be authorized to place RFPs for
architects to provide a cost analysis and space utilization for making City
Hall handicap accessible.
c) Appointments to Boards and Committees
The Board discussed and reviewed various committees and their purpose. Alderman
Potter discussed the possibility of the Waterfront Committee being revitalized
to work on enhancing the waterfront. Alderman Poole stated the Planning Board
at one time had a committee made up of Planning Board members to look at the
waterfront but it never moved forward. The Board realized that the waterfront
is a focal point and needs upgrading. City Manager Thornton recommended goals
be established for waterfront improvements, i.e. extending the river walk
design and the Yacht Basin area where there is a lot of concentration during
tourist season. The Board realized that a lot of the property is private around
the Yacht Basin and the City would need to engage representation from all
aspects of the community, i.e. business owners.
Alderman Potter recommended that the Fort Johnston Committee meet to decide
what the City needs to do with the Garrison House. Alderman Frink, Chairperson,
acknowledged that the Committee was waiting for completion of the spatial
analysis study which recommended the building be used as a Visitors Center.
Alderman Karn reported that the Sign Committee is still in the planning stage
on way finding signs.
Alderman Boguskie asked about the previous discussion on purchasing the Chirico
property at the west end of Bay Street. Mayor Howard reported that the Bank is
amenable to talking with the City but it is still in the discussion stage.
d) Capital Project Planning and Prioritization
The City Manager discussed the need for a strategic plan for capital
improvements and the importance of prioritizing the capital improvement
projects.
×   Alderman Poole recommended that Caviness Park be considered a high priority
in FY 2011-12 budget. ($10,000 budgeted in Capital Improvement Plan, CIP).
×   Board consensus to delete $15,000 for relocation of playground equipment at
Fort Johnston, but remove the equipment because of safety issues. City Manager
Thornton stated if the equipment is removed, it may create some public
consternation and recommended a picnic table be placed in the area. The Board
recommended the liaison present this to the Parks and Recreation Committee for
consideration.
×   Alderman Potter recommended the design and construction of a Municipal
Athletic Park
Complex be moved up since the City has ownership of 7.4 acres of property
(formerly Stevens Park). City Manager Thornton stated the City could apply for
a PARTFF Grant which is a 50/50 grant (PARTFF) with a maximum allocation of
$500,000. However, this type of complex will be a multi-phased project. $5,000
is allocated for conceptual drawing in the CIP. The Boards liaison will convey
the Boards recommendation to the Parks and Recreation Board. The Board
discussed the structural challenges with the City gym and asked the City
Manager to talk with the Parks and Recreation Director about the gym and
possibly have a structural engineer check it out.
×   Computer replacement plans was placed as a high priority.
LUNCH RECESS 1:00 P.M.
Capital Projects
×   Streetscape design plan
×   Implementation of the approved plan to revitalize the Yacht Basin /Bay
Street Waterfront area. The Board discussed improving the City dock, increase
dock fees when repairs and upgrades are made and use fees for maintenance.
Alderman Potter noted some people who rents boat slips are non residents and
people also sub-lease boat slips. The City Manager will look into this and view
similar dock facilities to determine the grade and general idea for
improvements including fees.
×   Mr. Thornton reported that dredging work was performed around the dock in
2010.
×   New vehicle and sprayer equipment for Mosquito Control program discussed
and Alderman Boguskie cited new EPA rules which may prohibit mosquito spraying.
×   Mayor Howard stated the City at some point and time will need to look at
budgeting funds to begin an electric undergrounding program. Alderman Boguskie
stated if undergrounding is implemented; the City will need to require
mandatory hook-up.
×   Replacement of existing electric poles discussed. Brunswick Electric
Membership Corp (BEMC) proposed to inspect and test 2,025 poles within the City
at a cost of $9,600 to include the condition and recommendations for
replacement. Funds budgeted this year to begin the pole replacement plan. Board
agreed to refer this to the Electric Committee.
×   Wastewater Collection System Rehabilitation, slip lining and other work on
wastewater collection system to reduce inflow and infiltration, replace, repair
old lines included in CIP because City needs to perform maintenance and repair
regularly. City Manager stated the City must be proactive in budgeting funds to
replace sections of older lines.
×   Alderman Karn asked if a heating unit and replacement of lights at the
Community Building would be included in the 2011 budget. City Manager stated
that this is dependent upon the availability of funds and departmental budgets.
×   Computers for Police Department have been replaced.
×   Alderman Potter asked about funds to resurface tennis courts at Fort
Johnston since the Board voted to retain the courts. The City Manager Thornton
stated that funds will be placed in the CIP for 2011/2012.
×   Mayor Howard requested the Board authorize the City Manager to proceed with
the next step in the spatial analysis study.
×   Alderman Karn suggested priorities be presented to the public for input.
City Manager Thornton acknowledged that input is encouraged during the Public
Hearing on the budget. Alderman Boguskie stated a Town Hall meeting could be
held once compilation of the budget is completed. Alderman Adams stated it is
the Boards responsibility to prioritize projects for the City and staff
formulates the budget.
e) Alganomics
The Board discussed a request from Dr. Jones about leasing the old sewer plant
once decommissioned. Aldermen expressed concern about the request for a five to
nine year lease, which would encumber City property. The Board acknowledged the
value of the property due to its location and agreed that the City needs to
keep all options opened i.e. discussing its use for the property. Discussion of
future plans to extend the river walk and the sewer plant land would be an
integral part in the development of the waterfront. It was Board consensus not
to encumber the property until the City identifies its use for the land.
Aldermen were in agreement with the concept of the program presented by Dr.
Jones which is currently housed at the Oak Island Wastewater Treatment Plant.
Mayor Howard gave the Board information on the Resource Institute and talked
about a potential public/private partnership which could be a valuable resource
in providing insight on improvements to the waterfront. He stated that Mr. Roy
Pender, Chairman of the Beautification Committee could possibly provide some
information since he was a part of the Mt. Airy project.
City Manager Thornton was asked to contact representatives from Mt. Airy and
the Resource Institute to assemble information and present back to the Board in
February.
Aldermen asked that the Planning Board review and make a recommendation on the
parking overlay for the Yacht Basin.
V.   Other Items
Alderman Poole presented a copy of the current fee schedule for the Community
Building asking that the Board consider a recommendation from the Community
Center Manager to delete the difference in cost for the general public for
weekend and evening events which serve alcoholic beverages and charge one rate.
Alderman Poole also recommended Southport residents pay $50 per/hour for use of
the building once a year the same as City employees and Aldermen, and increase
the rate for non residents. She will provide a chart at the next meeting for
comparable facilities in surrounding communities. Mayor Howard asked Alderman
Poole to discuss this with staff to ascertain the impact to the general budget.
City Manager Thornton asked that the Board consider prioritization of the
scheduling because if the rate is reduced for residents, this may cause the
building to be booked up and minimize revenue. Alderman Poole explained that
this would be once per year. She will work with staff to produce a financial
analysis so that this will not adversely impact the budget. Alderman Boguskie
stated the reason for the rate differential for alcoholic beverages is due to
the clean-up. This matter will be discussed further by the Board.
a) Location of future meetings of the Board of Aldermen
Alderman Poole stated meetings should be held at the Community Building until
the City Hall is made ADA compliant and can accommodate people with
disabilities. Reference was made to the EOC operations room at the fire
department which could accommodate meetings. (Official Occupancy Rate of City
Hall Board Chambers is 146)
Alderman Adams moved to relocate City Council meetings back to the Aldermen
Chambers at City Hall, seconded by Alderman Boguskie. 5 ayes, Aldermen Adams,
Frink, Potter, Karn, Potter. 1 no, Alderman Poole. Passed 5-1
b) Improvement of Caswell Avenue
Alderman Adams asked that Caswell Avenue be opened for through traffic and
cited streets in Ward 2 which dead end (Caswell, Burrington and Clarendon). The
majority of residents that he talked with want the road opened for access.
Alderman Boguskie, Chairman of the Traffic and Transportation Committee, agreed
that the road should be opened. Alderman Karn noted that he was contacted by a
neighbor who is opposed to opening the road and suggested a public meeting be
held, realizing both points of view.
City Manager Thornton noted opening the road is included in the capital
improvement plan but the cost is not firm. Mayor Howard asked for a cost
projection by February to build a minimum road. Alderman Boguskie stated the
Traffic and Transportation Committee will meet and discuss this item.
c) Assistant Public Services Director
City Manager Thornton stated that this is a non-funded vacant position which
staff believes there is a need for someone with building and technical
experience, including building and maintenance plan for City facilities.
Alderman Karn stated the need for a person to institute a system for
maintenance of buildings and equipment. If a plan was in place, there would be
opportunities to apply for grants.
Alderman Potter moved to allocate money in the budget for 2011-2012, seconded
by Alderman Karn. Discussion: Alderman Adams stated opposition to hiring an
Assistant Public Utilities Director. Alderman Poole questioned if the City was
hiring an Assistant or an employee and was opposed to hiring someone that would
automatically advance to Public Utilities Director. She requested to know
future plans if the position is filled. Alderman Potter clarified that her
motion was not to hire an assistant. Alderman Boguskie stated someone is needed
with background in sewer and can learn job duties and responsibilities. City
Manager Thornton stated that he would provide information on job description
and responsibilities.
Mayor Howard stated that citizens are not happy with the appearance of the town
and would prefer someone that could assist with cemeteries, parks and general
cleaning of the City.
Alderman Boguskie suggested if a moratorium is to be placed on hiring, that it
apply to every department.
Motion withdrawn by Alderman Potter.
d) Impact Fees
Mayor Howard stated the Citys impact fees are high and would like to see fees
reduced by 50%. The high impact fees are possibly prohibiting businesses from
locating in Southport. Board members agreed that they want to help businesses
but wish to review the financial implication that this would have on the budget
before any decisions are made. Alderman Boguskie and City Manager Thornton
advised that the City will be paying impact fees to the County for wastewater
per gallon usage, and the City needs to be cognizant of the cost.
e) Planning Board Staff Relations
Mayor Howard asked for Board approval to work with the Planning Board and staff
on their relationship, and asked that a hold be placed on text changes to the
UDO until he conducts a dialogue to ascertain the problems. He will report back
to the Board possibly in March or April. Alderman Boguskie asked that Planning
Board liaisons be included, but Mayor Howard asked that he do this
unilaterally.
Alderman Karn asked that changes recommended by the Planning Board and staff
regarding membership and vacancies, Section 3-1 be considered for approval by
the Board.
Alderman Frink moved, seconded by Alderman Potter to direct the Planning Board
to cease all UDO text changes and committee meetings that relate to text
changes until further action by the Board. 5 ayes, Aldermen Frink, Potter,
Poole, Adams and Karn. 1 abstention, Alderman Boguskie. Vote passed.
f) Clean Water Management Trust Fund (CWMTF)
Mayor Howard explained that the City has two payments left on the grant
agreement with Clean Water Management Trust Fund of approximately $561,000.00
which a payment is due in July, and the last July 2012. The repayment agreement
for the wastewater plant was collaterized by the Citys grant proceeds of
$3,000,000. He stated that when the City started drawing down funds, it placed
the City within the collateral limit, freezing further advances. This was not
realized until the request for payment was denied and it was brought to the
Citys attention. The City also had a reduction in the cost of the project which
was originally $5,132,700. When the City changed from the Sanitary District to
the County it reduced the cost to $4,404,695.00. The CWMTF agreed to fund
$3,000,000 of the $5,132,700 which was 58.45% of the total cost of the project.
The City would fund through loans and other sources 41.55%. The City sent a
letter requesting the CWMTF fund $2,891,733 of the $4,404,695.00 total and the
City fund $1,512,962 which would increase the CWMTF funding from 58.45% to 65%
which would lower Southports funding request from 41.55% to 34.35%. Mayor
Howard stated that the City is actually requesting the CWMTF to increase the
Citys grant match by $317,189,000. He explained that the Board of Trustees for
the CWMTF is the only one that can change the collateral provision.   
Mayor Howard stated that he and the City Manager will appear before the CWMTF
Board and ask them to increase the grant request percentage by $317,189,000.
They will also request the collateral provision of the agreement be released to
free up $742,000.
g) Rescue Squad
Mayor Howard reported that he and Alderman Boguskie will meet with staff from
the County to discuss transition of the Southport Rescue Squad to the County,
providing the same services to Southport as other areas.
h) Audit
Mayor Howard suggested a workshop be held with the Citys Auditor to answer
questions and he briefly discussed separation of duties.
i) Countywide Curbside Recycling
City Manager Thornton stated the County is discussing curbside recycling and if
funded on July 1st, all City residents would receive a 96 gallon blue recycling
container which would reduce City cost by $3.41 per home. However, if the
county does not go through with this, the City will continue its bi-weekly
recycling program.
j) Personnel Policy
It was Board consensus to review the Citys updated Personnel Policy during a
workshop.
VI.   Adjournment 5:01 p.m.
No further business, the Board Retreat was closed upon motion of Alderman
Boguskie, seconded by Alderman Frink. Vote unanimous.
______________________________________
Mayor
_______________________________________
Clerk
FEBRUARY 10, 2011
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN            REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
FEBRUARY 10, 2011            6:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS(CITY HALL) SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
Aldermen Ed Boguskie, Nelson Adams, Ken Karn
Vickie Potter, Mary Ellen Poole, Jwantana Frink
ABSENT:      None
STAFF PRESENT:   M. Alan Thornton, City Manager
Regina W. Alexander, MMC-City Clerk
Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
Patty Miller, Finance Director
Amy Nelson, Planning Director
Ralph Cardwell, Public Services Director
Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
Jerry Dove, Chief of Police
Neal Sage, Chief VRS
I.   Call to Order - 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
II.   Invocation
Alderman Adams welcomed citizens and pronounced the invocation.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Howard stated if any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.
III.   Approval of Minutes
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to approve the December 23,
2010 special meeting minutes. Unanimous vote.
Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Frink to approve the January 13, 2011
regular meeting minutes. Unanimous vote.
IV.   Approval of Agenda
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to remove the Closed Session
from the Agenda and put on the March Agenda. Ayes: Aldermen Boguskie, Karn,
Poole
Nays: Aldermen Adams, Frink, Potter, Mayor Howard. Motion failed 3-4.
Discussion: Alderman Poole asked for clarification as to the purpose of the
Closed Session. Mayor Howard stated the Closed Session was to discuss the City
Manager performance appraisal as agreed by the Board to be performed every 90
days.
Alderman Poole motioned to amend the agenda adding the following items,
seconded by Alderman Frink. Ayes: Aldermen Boguskie, Poole, Potter, Nelson,
Frink. Nay: Karn. Motion passed 5-1.    
$   IX New Business (i) Caswell Avenue extension between 8 th and Owens
Streets;
$   XII. Board Comments
V.   Public Comments
Mr. Walter Madsen, Chairman of The Friends of the North Carolina Maritime
Museum at Southport, addressed the Board. He thanked the Board for the
continued support of the museum and discussed the museums request for a
contribution. He pointed out three items; 1. The Department of Cultural
Resources have asked the museum director to take into account the in kind
contributions (from suppliers, contractors, volunteers hours, etc.) of
$150,000. 2. The 2012 Democratic Convention to be held in Charlotte, NC has
included the three Carolina coastal maritime museums as part of the promotional
program. 3. The Friends raised $57,000, future fund raising will be undertaken
for the completion of the main entrance atrium, and the museum will not be
returning to the City for an additional request for funding. Mr. Madsen
expressed his hopes the museum will be a tourist destination and an economic
boost for Southport. In response to a query by Mayor Howard, Mr. Madsen
requested the funding be considered immediate for opening of the museum during
the upcoming tourist season.
Mr. Cecil Rhodes, 1007 Captain Adkins Drive. He discussed the condition of the
building and additional expenditures that have been incurred during the
renovations. He talked about the history of the coastal museums and the
economic impact they have had on their communities. He spoke in support of the
request by the Maritime Museum.
Ms. Karen Knighton, spoke about handicapped accessibility to Board meetings and
expressed her disappointment the meetings had returned to City Hall.
VI.   Committee Reports
Alderman Karn distributed copies of the North Carolina League of
Municipalities, 2011-2012 Municipal Advocacy Goals. He reported he attended the
recent conference. He discussed the goals, the number one item was to seek
legislation reforming annexation laws. Alderman Karn recommended appointment of
two Aldermen to join with the City Manager in meetings with State
representatives Iler and Rabon to discuss the League goals, specifically the
annexation issue. Representatives are to be invited to a special meeting of the
Board.
Alderman Karn reported receipt of the final contract with Vision Internet for
development of the Citys website; $ 19,975.00. Attorney Mike Isenberg stated
his satisfaction with the legal aspects of the contract but noted there was
only a 12 month warranty period. Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman
Boguskie to authorize the City Manager to sign the agreement on behalf of the
City. Vote carried unanimously.
Traffic and Transportation: Alderman Boguskie gave the following report:
$   Add sidewalks
$   Extend Caswell Avenue through to 8 th Street
$   Resurface Southport streets in need of repair
$   Committee would like to advertise Request For Proposal (RFP); road
surfacing, new sidewalks and roads extensions. Funding available.
Discussion:
Alderman Potter questioned how locations of sidewalks were determined. Alderman
Boguskie reported sidewalks for Clarendon and Caswell Avenues have been
requested for many years. The area of Bay Street is unsafe and a potential
liability for the City.
Alderman Karn reported citizens of N. Caswell Avenue had contacted him
regarding the extension and he suggested holding a Public Hearing. Alderman
Poole concurred. She asked the committee to consider resurfacing Brown Street
between Atlantic Avenue and Howe Street.
Alderman Adams reported he had solicited opinions of his constituents, lifetime
residents of the area, and the majority of the ward residents are in favor of
the Caswell Avenue extension.
Alderman Adams moved, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to allow the Traffic
Committee and City staff to obtain RFPs. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Rescue Squad
Mayor Howard reported he had spoken with County Commissioners Chairman Bill
Sue. A meeting with him, his staff and the City rescue squad committee to be
scheduled.
VII.   Departmental Reports
Reports placed in agenda packets.
In response to Alderman Karns inquiry, Finance Director, Patty Miller explained
the process for collecting delinquent property taxes.
Regular Session
Mayor Howard requested the discussion be limited to the Unified Development
Ordinance (UDO) Article 3 and Article 12 be deferred as agreed in the Board
retreat.
Alderman Karn addressed the proposed changes to Article 12 noting a Board
committee had presented the amendment, the planning board had made their
recommendation, and the Board had voted to accept the recommendation of the
planning board during the August 23, 2010 special meeting. Alderman Karn
suggested including Article 12 in the Public Hearing.
Alderman Adams discussed the time and effort spent developing the Unified
Development Ordinance (UDO) and he expressed dissatisfaction with the many text
amendments.
VIII.   Public Hearing - 7:13 p.m.
a) City of Southport Text Amendment to Unified Development Ordinance Article 3
and 12
Alderman Karn moved to enter Public Hearing to consider UDO text amendments to
Article 3 and 12. Mayor Howard ruled the motion out of order. Alderman Karn
moved to appeal the Mayors ruling. Ayes; Aldermen Karn, Boguskie. Nays:
Aldermen Adams, Poole, Frink, and Potter. Motion failed 4-2
Discussion:
Alderman Potter noted the Board had agreed not to make changes to the UDO.
Alderman Poole pointed out that Planning Board members terms were expiring and
the text amendment to UDO Section 3-1: Membership and Vacancies, needs to be
adopted.
Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Potter to enter Public Hearing to
consider UDO text amendment to Article 3, Section 3-1: Membership and
Vacancies. No discussion, vote carried unanimously.
Mr. Buddy Barnes, resident of Short Street and member of the Planning Board
asked if Planning board recommendations were to be considered.
Mr. Fred Guerrina, resident of Dale Avenue and member of the Planning Board
discussed the Planning Board recommendations.
Alderman Adams moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to close the Public Hearing.
No discussion, motion carried.
IX.   New Business
a) Consideration of Text Amendment to Unified Development Ordinance Article 3-1
Alderman Karn suggested changing the 30 day requirement to 10 days.
Alderman Poole raised concerns to the March expirations of Planning Board
appointments. She suggested extending those appointments until April. Board
consensus was appointments to the Planning Board would be held in April.
Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Frink to approve the resolution to
amend the City of Southport Unified Development Ordinance Article 3, Section 3-
1 Membership and Vacancies as recommended by the planning board. Vote
unanimous. Passed 6-0
RESOLUTION APPROVING TEXT AMENDMENT TO UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
THAT WHEREAS, the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance and other
land use ordinances that control land development within both the Citys
incorporated areas and within its extraterritorial area, and
WHEREAS, in order to promote the public health, safety and general welfare and
to promote the best interest of the city and community, it is necessary for the
Southport Board of Aldermen from time to time to consider appropriate
revisions, modifications and additions to the citys land use ordinances, and
WHEREAS, the Planning Director has prepared and submitted to the Planning Board
a proposed amendment to Section 3 of the Southport Unified Development
Ordinance, and
WHEREAS, the Planning Board has considered this matter and has recommended that
this proposed amendment to the Unified Development Ordinance be approved as
modified by the Planning Board; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to N.C. General Statutes and city ordinances, a public
hearing, properly noticed, was held on February 10, 2011, before the Board of
Aldermen regarding this issue; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen hereby finds that this proposed amendment to the
Unified Development Ordinance as modified by the Planning Board is consistent
with the Southport CAMA Core Land Use Plan; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that this amendment is reasonable
and in the public interest in that (i) in order to bring the Unified
Development Ordinance up-to-date after careful review, occasional adjustments
are necessary, (ii) this amendment is necessary to clarify Planning Board
vacancies and other administrative procedures, and (iii) it is necessary to
promote the public safety and general welfare of the community by clarifying
appointment to the Planning Board;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that the
attachment amendment and addition to the Southport Unified Development
Ordinance is hereby approved and adopted.
This 10th day of February, 2011
City of Southport
/s/ Robert D. Howard
Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
City Clerk
AMENDMENT TO CITY OF SOUTHPORT UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
Section 3-1: Membership and Vacancies
Add the bold text:
The planning board shall consist of seven (7) members and two (2) alternate
members. Five (5) members and one (1) alternate member shall be citizens and
residents of the city and shall be appointed by the Board of Aldermen. Two (2)
members and (1) alternate member shall be citizens and residents of the extra-
territorial jurisdiction of the city as described pursuant to G.S. 160A-360 et
seq. and shall be appointed by the county Board of Commissioners. The City
Clerk will advertise for vacancies when they occur. All candidates, including
board members whose terms are expiring and who are seeking reappointment, must
have an application no less than thirty (30) days prior to the Board of
Aldermen meeting in which the selection(s) are made and [no older than ninety
(90) days prior to the date of vacancy] on file with the City Clerks office and
must inform the Clerk they wish to be considered for the vacant position. All
applicants must be interviewed by a committee, selected by the Board of
Aldermen, consisting of two (2) Board of Aldermen members and the Chairman of
the Planning Board. If the Chairmans term is expiring and he/she wants to apply
for reappointment, the Vice-Chairman of the planning board will be selected for
the committee. The committee will make recommendations to the Board of Aldermen
for the vacant position(s). Any citizen who has filed a current application and
completed the interview shall be eligible for nomination. Citizens who have not
met these requirements are not eligible for nomination to the planning board.
The City Clerk will place the applications of all candidates who meet these
requirements in the agenda packets prior to the meeting in which the selection
(s) are made. Alternate members shall not be entitled to vote on matters before
the planning board except when a regular planning board member is absent from a
duly called meeting. In that situation, the alternate shall have the same
privileges as the regular members and may count for quorum purposes and vote if
a regular member is absent. Vacancies occurring for reasons other than
expiration of terms shall be filled as they occur for the period of the
unexpired term. Faithful attendance at the meetings of the board is considered
a pre-requisite for the maintenance of membership on the board. A vacancy shall
exist on the board if a member is absent from twenty-five (25) percent or more
of the boards meetings within a twelve (12) month period of time and said
vacancy may be declared and filled by the Board of Aldermen. Extraterritorial
representatives shall have equal rights, privileges, and duties with the other
members of the board to which they are appointed, regardless of whether the
matters at issue arise within the city or within the extraterritorial area.
b) Consideration of Request by Friends of the North Carolina Maritime Museum at
Southport
City Manager Thornton discussed the $75,000 funding request made by the Friends
of the NC Maritime Museum at Southport. A copy of the request and capital
budget for renovating Moore Street and Davis Street barracks, provided in the
Agenda packet.
Alderman Karn stated the museum would be a focal point in attracting businesses
to Southport. The museum draws 30,000 to 40,000 visitors annually, promotes
heritage tourism, preserves Southport maritime heritage, plays a key role in
education, conducts events and programs for people of all ages and is
anticipated to provide an economic boost to Southport.
Alderman Potter moved, seconded by Alderman Boguskie for the City to make a
contribution to the Maritime Museum at Southport in the amount of $75,000.
Discussion:
Alderman Frink recognized the immediate need of the museum while suggesting
input from City taxpayers.
Alderman Adams raised concerns to the amount of the contribution, the affects
to the upcoming budget cycle, how the funds would be recouped, if the City
could afford it and reaction from his constituents. Alderman Adams contented
the matter needed further discussion. He expressed support for the museum.
Alderman Potter expressed her support of the museum, its importance to the City
of Southport and the need for it to be open for the upcoming tourist season.
Alderman Poole asked about availability of the requested funds. City Manager
Thornton discussed planned capital improvement projects, potential reduction in
State funding, the Citys fund balance, and available fund balance for spending.
Alderman Potter withdrew the motion, seconded by Alderman Boguskie
Alderman Frink asked for a more in depth financial report from the Friends of
the Maritime Museum at Southport.
Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to defer the request to a
workshop to be held prior to the March regular meeting. Unanimous vote.
c)   Public Private Partnership Initiatives
City Manager Thornton reported he had contacted the Resource Institute (RI),
the City of Mt. Airy and visited their web site and provided the link to the
website to Board members. Extensive information about Mt. Airys project with
the Resource Institute on the Ararat River Greenway Project is posted on the
website. The Resource Institute functions as an administrative, coordinating,
clearing house agency for the city that enlists their services. They would
handle all coordinating activities including grant writing, hiring consultants,
etc. If entered into project, would be multi-year with funding spread out over
time. Funding provided in Mt. Airy project was 20% of total cost, roughly 80%
grant funding. RI would receive 10-15% of the total cost which is reasonable
and available to municipalities and because of their capabilities, would be an
arm of the City.
Mayor Howard reported he, the City Manager and Mt. Airy city staff toured the
Mt. Airy project, spoke with Mt. Airy staff and received positive feedback.
d)   Double Taxation Issues
o comments
e)   Consideration of FY 2010-2011 City of Southport Budget Amendments
Alderman Frink moved to approve budget amendment #4, #5, #6, seconded by
Alderman Potter. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Budget Amendment # 4
Fiscal Year 2010-2011
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session February 10,2011, that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted to adjust line items within departments that were over or
under budget and for additional revenues received.
GENERAL FUND
Budget         Budget As
Amendment      Amended
Section I
A.   Revenues Anticipated
Insurance Reimbursements for Police Car    3,100
Forestry Donation             2,000
Beautification Committee Donation       625
Rescue Insurance Reimbursements      15,000
Zoning & Planning Fees          1,600
Appropriated Fund Balance          1,500
(Revenues received prior year from
Kiwanis Club for Parks & Rec)
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
See Attached                        4,086,535
ADOPTED this the 10th day of February, 2011
/s/Robert D. Howard
Mayor
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
City Clerk
Decrease    Increase
Board      Health Ins.         104110-1100      $10,000.00   
Prof. Fees         104110-1800            $10,000.00
 
Administration   Telephone & Postage      104120-3200            $ 4,000.00
Ins. & Bonding         104120-4500      $ 4,000.00
Codification         104120-6001            $ 1,000.00
Debt Service         104120-7100             5.55
Retirement         104120-1000      $ 1,005.55
 
B&G      Beautification         104190-2402            $ 625.00
Forestry         104190-2407            $ 500.00
Utilities            104190-3300            $ 4,000.00
Fire Fees to Cnty      104190-2907      $ 500.00
Ins. & Bonding         104190-4500      $ 500.00
R/M Building         104190-2401      $ 1,500.00
 
Police Dept.   R/M Building         104310-3501            $ 3,100.00
 
Ins. & Bonding         104310-4500      $ 500.00
C/O Vehicles         104310-5400            $ 500.00
C/O Equipment         104310-5500            $ 1,800.00
Contract Rental      104310-6100      $ 800.00
Lease Payments      104310-7700      $ 1,000.00
 
Code      R/M Equipment      104350-3500            $ 1,600.00
Enforcement
 
Rescue   Fica            104370-0900            $ 1,000.00
Bill Collections         104370-1801            $ 5,000.00
Supplies         104370-2600            $ 5,000.00
Telephones         104370-3200      $ 1,000.00
R/M Equipment      104370-3500            $ 5,000.00
 
Parks &   Equipment Purchase      106120-2601      $ 500.00
Recreation   Travel & Training               $ 800.00
Telephone                        $ 500.00
R/M Equipment                     $ 800.00
R/M Facilities                        $ 1,500.00
 
Tourism   Salaries         106170-0000      $12,000.00
P/T Salaries         106170-0100            $12,000.00
Health Ins.         107170-1100      $ 5,000.00
Utilities            106170-3300            $ 5,000.00
Contract Services      106170-6000            $ 700.00
Travel Training         106170-3100      $ 700.00
 
Totals                           $39,805.55   $63,630.55
Budget Amendment # 5
Fiscal Year 2010-2011
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session February 10, 2011, that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted to adjust department line items that were over or under
budget.
Electric Fund
Budget         Budget As
Amendment      Amended
Section IV
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
Prof. Fees             ( 1,500 )
Garage Expense to GF          1,500
ADOPTED this the 10th day of February, 2011
/s/ Robert D. Howard
Mayor
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
City Clerk
Budget Amendment # 6
Fiscal Year 2010-2011
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session February 10,2011, that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for funding of professional fees expense from water/sewer
sales revenues.
Water Sewer Fund
Budget         Budget As
Amendment      Amended
Section V
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
Supplies - Treatment Plant       3,000
Supplies - Sewer Collection       10,000
R/M - Sewer Collection          10,000
Sewer Chemical Analysis       1,000
Contract Services         (24,000)
ADOPTED this the 10th day of February, 2011
/s/ Robert D. Howard          Mayor
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC ______________________________
City Clerk
f)   Discussion of Walgreens Sign Concerns
Mr. Joseph Mendola representing the owner, Fair Enterprises, and the Walgreen
Corporation stated he had been meeting with City Planner, Amy Nelson since
October, 2010. Negotiations were made on 13 different points, i.e., smaller
signs in compliance with the City Ordinance with the exception of the logo W
above the entrance. Mr. Mendola pointed out the tax dollars lost with a delay
in the project due to the sign. He requested assistance in resolving the issue.
Mayor Howard asked Mrs. Nelson to explain why the sign request was denied. Mrs.
Nelson stated the ordinance allowed two (2) signs per lot and three (3) signs
per corner lot. Her interpretation was the location is not a corner lot. Mrs.
Nelson proposed a UDO text amendment to clarify the issue.
In reply to a question by Alderman Frink, City Attorney Isenberg stated
possible options; property owner had the right to apply for a text amendment
and appeal the Planning Directors determination to the Board of Adjustment.
Request placed on the February 17, 2011 Planning Board Agenda for text
amendment consideration. A special meeting of the Board of Aldermen will be
called if necessary.
g)   Resolution Accepting and Endorsing the 2009-2010 Update of the Solid Waste
Management Plan for Brunswick County
City Manager Thornton reported adoption of the resolution meets statutory
requirements of participation in the Comprehensive Solid Waste Management Plan.
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to adopt the resolution
Resolution Accepting and Endorsing the 2009-2019 Update Of the Solid Waste
Management Plan for Brunswick County
WHEREAS, it is a priority of this community to protect human health and the
environment through safe and effective management of municipal solid waste; and
WHEREAS, the reduction of the amount of toxicity of the local waste stream is a
goal of this community; and
WHEREAS, equitable and efficient delivery of solid waste management services is
an essential characteristic of the local solid waste management system; and
WHEREAS, it is a goal of the community to maintain and improve its physical
appearance and to reduce the adverse effects of illegal disposal and littering;
and
WHEREAS, the City of Southport recognizes its role in the encouragement of
recycled products; and.
WHEREAS, involvement and education of the citizenry is critical to the
establishment of an effective local solid waste program; and
WHEREAS, the State of North Carolina has placed planning responsibility on
local government for the management of solid waste; and
WHEREAS, N.C. General Statutes 130A-309.09A(b) requires each unit of local
government either individually or in cooperation with other units of local
government, to update the Ten Year Comprehensive Solid Waste Management Plan
at least every three years; and
WHEREAS, the Brunswick County Solid Waste Management Department has undertaken
and completed a long range planning effort to evaluate the appropriate
technologies and strategies available to manage solid waste effectively;
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, by the Southport Board of Aldermen that
Brunswick Countys 2009-2019 Update of the Ten Year Comprehensive Solid Waste
Management Plan is accepted and endorsed and placed on file with the City Clerk
on this the 10th day of February 2011.
_______/s/ Robert D. Howard
Mayor
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
City Clerk
h)   Consideration of Resolution and grant application forms for Infiltration
and Inflow Reduction with DENR - Mr. Carter Hubard, W.K. Dickson
City Manager Thornton reported staff is recommending adoption of the resolution
as part of the funding application package for the Citys inflow and
infiltration source detection program.
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to adopt the resolution. The
vote of approval was unanimous; motion carried.
RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING FUNDING APPLICATION
TO THE NC DENR - CONSTRUCTION GRANTS & LOANS SECTION
FOR CITY OF SOUTHPORT
SEWER SYSTEM REHABILITATION AND REPLACEMENT PROJECT
WHEREAS, The Federal Clean Water Act Amendments of 1987 and the North Carolina
Water Infrastructure Act of 2005 (NCGS 159G) have authorized the making of
loans and grants to aid eligible units of government in financing the cost of
construction of wastewater treatment plant improvements; and
WHEREAS, The City of Southport has need for the reduction of inflow and
infiltration in the sewer system and the City intends to complete a
rehabilitation and replacement of aged publicly-owned wastewater collection
infrastructure in order to ensure effective and efficient treatment of
wastewater and protect the quality of the water in the receiving stream; and
WHEREAS, The City of Southport intends to request funding assistance from the
High Unit Coast Grant Program, the State Low-Interest Loan Program or the State
Revolving Loan (SRF) Program for the project.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, BY THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN OF THE CITY OF
SOUTHPORT:
That the City of Southport will arrange financing for all remaining costs of
the project, if approved for funding.
That the City of Southport will adopt and place into effect on or before
completion of the project a schedule of fees and charges and other available
funds which will provide adequate funds for proper operation, maintenance, and
administration of the system and the repayment of all principal and interest on
the debt.
That the governing body of the City of Southport agrees to include in any
funding agreement a provision authorizing the State Treasurer, upon failure of
the City of Southport to make scheduled replayment of the loan, to without from
the City of Southport any State funds that would otherwise be distributed to
the City of Southport in an amount sufficient to pay all sums then due and
payable to the State as a replayment of the loan.
That City of Southport will provide for efficient operation and maintenance of
the project on completion of construction thereof.
That M. Alan Thornton, City Manager, and successors so titled, is hereby
authorized to execute and file an application on behalf of the City of
Southport with the State of North Carolina for a (loan or grant) to aid in the
construction of the project described above.
That M. Alan Thornton, City Manager, and successors so titled, is hereby
authorized and directed to furnish such information as the appropriate State
agency may request in connection with such application or the project: to make
the assurances as contained above; and to execute such other documents as may
be required in connection with the application.
That the City of Southport has substantially complied or will substantially
comply with all Federal, State, and local laws, rules, regulations, and
ordinances applicable to the project and to the grants pertaining thereto.
Adopted this the 10th day of February, 2011 at Southport, North Carolina
/s/ Robert D. Howard
Mayor
Attest:
s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
City Clerk
i)   Caswell Avenue Extension
Discussed during Item VI. Committee Reports
X.   Other Business
None
XI.   City Managers Comments
$   Hoped each Board member was in receipt of Legislative Updates. Many issues
directly affect the municipalities of North Carolina and are moving quickly.
XII.   Board Comments
$   Alderman Boguskie reported he reviewed the contract with the Clean Water
Management Trust Fund(CWMTF) and it states; The grant agreement may be
rescinded, modified or amended only by written agreement executed by all
parties. Alderman Boguskie contended an agreement should be provided from
CWMTF. Mayor Howard pointed out that when the cost of the project was reduced,
from $5,132,700.00 to $4,695,000.00, CWMTF criteria dictated a proportionate
reduction which is standard operating procedure. The Citys request is a
contribution reduction from $4,169,000.00 to $3,465,000.00. Attorney Isenberg
concurred a modification must be in writing and executed by all parties. He
recommended that CWMTF clarify where in the contract it is stated the funds can
be reduced proportionately. Mayor Howard suggested Alderman Boguskie contact
Mr. Rogers, CWMTF, directly. Alderman Karn noted the Board needed to determine
how the situation would be approached. Mayor Howard suggested a Board member
represent the City at a February 20, 2011 CWMTF Board committee meeting
regarding contractual obligations and to receive an explanation of proportional
reduction.
Alderman Karn moved to direct the City Manager and Alderman Boguskie to obtain
information regarding matched funding from the CWMTF Board and reconvene to
make a final decision. Alderman Boguskie seconded the motion. Unanimous vote;
motion carried.
$   Alderman Karn requested clarification and status of the planning board/City
staff relations issue as discussed at the Board Retreat. Mayor Howard reported
he had a time line of the issues involved, had met with Aldermen Poole and
Potter, planning board liaisons, and would be meeting with staff and planning
board members
XIII.   Closed Session
Mayor Howard entertained a motion to go into Closed Session pursuant to G.S.
143-318.11(6) for discussion with regard to the City Manager performance
evaluation.
Alderman Potter moved, seconded by Alderman Frink to go into Closed Session.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Regular Session Reconvened - 10:17 p.m.
Alderman Poole motioned to re-enter regular session, seconded by Alderman
Boguskie. Vote unanimous. Passed 6-0
Mayor Howard reported that during the Closed Session, City Manager Thornton
resigned effective immediately.
Alderman Potter moved, seconded by Alderman Adams to accept the resignation
based on the terms of Mr. Thorntons contract. Ayes: Aldermen Potter, Adams,
Poole, Frink; Nay: Alderman Karn; 1 Abstention: Alderman Boguskie. Passed 5-1
Alderman Adams moved, seconded by Alderman Frink to go into Closed Session
pursuant to G.S. 143-318-11(6) for discussion of personnel matters regarding
the City Managers position. Vote unanimous.  Passed 6-0
Regular Session Reconvened - 10:33 p.m.
Alderman Adams motioned to re-enter regular session, seconded by Alderman
Potter. Vote unanimous. Passed 6-0.
Alderman Adams motioned to appoint City Clerk, Regina Alexander as Interim City
Manager, seconded by Alderman Poole. Vote unanimous. Passed 6-0.
Alderman Adams motioned, seconded by Alderman Potter to recess the meeting to
Tuesday, February 15, 2011 at 6:30 p.m. Vote unanimous. Passed 6-0.
___________________________________
Mayor
____________________________________
City Clerk
FEBRUARY 15, 2011
RECESSED SESSION
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN            RECESSED SESSION
FEBRUARY 15, 2011            MEETING MINUTES
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS(CITY HALL) SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
Aldermen Ed Boguskie, Nelson Adams, Ken Karn
Vickie Potter, Mary Ellen Poole, Jwantana Frink
I.   Call to Order - 6:35
Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:35 p.m.
II.   Invocation
Alderman Nelson welcomed citizens and pronounced the invocation.
III.   Unfinished Business
Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to go into Executive Session
pursuant to G.S. 143-318-11(6) for discussion of personnel matters. Unanimous
vote. Passed 6-0
Regular Session Reconvened 8:04 p.m.
Alderman Poole motioned to re-enter regular session, seconded by Alderman
Boguskie. Unanimous vote. Passed 6-0
1) Settlement of contract for former City Manager
Alderman Frink moved, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to authorize the Interim
City Manager to pay $35,586.39 to Mr. Alan Thornton once the terms, severance
package and the condition of the agreement has been reached. Also to authorize
Mayor Howard to sign the Mutual Release Agreement as prepared by the City
Attorney. Unanimous vote. Passed 6-0
2) Appointment of Interim City Manager
Alderman Poole motioned, seconded by Alderman Karn to establish the salary for
the Interim City Manager at $67,500 effective February 11, 2011. Unanimous
vote. Passed 6-0
IV.   Other Business
1) Appointment of Commissioner to the North Carolina Eastern Municipal Power
Agency
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to appoint Public Service
Director, Mr. Ralph Cardwell as Commissioner to the North Carolina Eastern
Municipal Power Agency. Unanimous Vote. Passed 6-0
2) Consideration of Request by Friends of the North Carolina Maritime Museum at
Southport
Alderman Boguskie stated the buildings are owned by the City of Southport, the
roof needs replaced on the Moore Street building and the heating and air system
is out of operation. Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to fund
the North Carolina Maritime Museum project up to $30,000 for a porch/deck, new
shingles and roof and replace HVAC system on the Moore Street building. Funding
would be taken from the general fund through a budget amendment to the Board
during the March regular meeting.
Unanimous Vote. Passed 6-0
Adjournment - 8:14 p.m.
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Potter to adjourn. Unanimous
vote. Passed 6-0
/s/ Robert Howard
Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Regina W. Alexander
City Clerk
MARCH 10, 2011
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN            REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
MARCH 10, 2011               6:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS(CITY HALL) SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
Aldermen Ed Boguskie, Nelson Adams, Ken Karn
Vickie Potter, Mary Ellen Poole, Jwantana Frink
ABSENT:      None
STAFF PRESENT:   Regina W. Alexander, Interim City Manager/MMC-City Clerk
Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
Michele Windham, Deputy Clerk
Amy Nelson, Planning Director
Ralph Cardwell, Public Services Director
Jerry Dove, Chief of Police
Neal Sage, Chief VRS
I.   Call to Order - 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
II.   Invocation
Alderman Boguskie welcomed citizens and Police Chief Jerry Dove pronounced the
invocation.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Howard stated if any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.
III.   Approval of Minutes
Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to approve the January 29, 2011
Board Retreat meeting minutes, vote unanimous.
Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Frink to approve the February 10,
2011 regular meeting minutes, vote unanimous.
Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Potter to approve the February 15,
2011 recessed meeting minutes, vote unanimous.
IV.   Approval of Agenda
The following items were added to the agenda:
∙   Executive Session
∙   Resolution in Support of Transportation Improvements in Eastern Brunswick
County
∙   Resolution Opposing North Carolina Senate Bill 183 and North Carolina House
Bill 309
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to approve the agenda as
amended. Unanimous vote.
V.   Public Comments
Mr. Woody Wilson, 502 West Brunswick Street, expressed his opinion on action
taken by the Board regarding the former City Manager; filling the positions of
Director of Tourism/ Economic Development Director and City Manager; and adding
items to the agenda.
Ms. Karen Knighton, 406 Stuart Avenue spoke about the handicapped accessibility
of City Hall.
Ms. Martha Johnson, 227 11 th Street, spoke in support of the Friends of the
Library, asking the Board to think of another location where the book sales can
continue to be held.
Ms. Cindy Johnson, 160 NW 16 th Street, Oak Island spoke in support of the
Friends of the Library, emphasizing the importance of the book sales.
Mr. Chuck Pollock, resident of Smithville Woods, spoke in support of the
Friends of the Library, pointing out the Friends had spent money on the
facility and he encouraged the Board to reconsider their decision.
Ms. Marge Golas, 3623 Wingfoot, president of the Friends of the Library,
discussed the importance of having a temporary/permanent place to continue to
hold book sales, the hard economic times, and funding of the childrens program
at Harper Library.
Ms. Virginia Cannon, 12 Augusta Drive, former president of the Friends of the
Library, recalled times past when books were stored in members garages and
transported for a yearly book sale. She expressed her wish for the Friends of
the Library to stay in the annex.
Ms. Kim Jones, 1001 Petes Camp Road, representing Alganomics, entered a 1 year
proposal for the use of the decommissioned waste water treatment plant for a
renewal energy center.
VI.   Committee Reports
Water & Sewer Committee - minutes provided in the Board packet.
Alderman Boguskie reported the committee met Monday, March 7, 2011
∙   Public Service Director Cardwell reported on the sewer reversal project
∙   Lift Site at Rivermist Subdivision completion expected within three weeks
∙   Final invoice to be received from W.K. Dickson
∙   Funding from Clean Water Management Trust Fund (CWMTF)
∙   Burrington Avenue lift site renovation was addressed
∙   Inflow & Inflitration (I & I) is an on going problem
Alderman Boguskie reported meeting with Jason Glazener, Army Corps of
Engineers, Mayor Howard, and the Interim City Manager prior to the meeting
regarding rehabilitation of the sewer pump station located on Bay Street.
Alderman Boguskie reported the Corps had received funding of $50,000 and will
perform an impact study and draw plans behind the Bay Street list site.
Electric Committee - Alderman Poole entered into the record:
   1.   Meeting with Brunswick Electric Membership Corporation (BEMC). On 1
March 2011, the Electric Committee, consisting of Alderman Ken Karn, Interim
City Manager Alexander, Finance Director Ms. Miller, Public Works Director, Mr.
Cardwell and the undersigned met with staff of BEMC for a Planning Meeting
Update.
      a.   The Agenda included Outage Statistics/Outage Notification, Pole
Inspection Report, Contract Basic and Non-Basic Services, 2010 Service Orders,
Southport Substation (Total Peak kVA) and Work Plan Update for 2010. The
meeting with BEMC was conducted very professionally and was most informative.
   2.   After the meeting with BEMC, members of the Southport Electric
Committee held a meeting and discussed the following points/recommendations:
      a.   Service Orders - 5% of the cost of the contract is for the
Installation of Banners. The Committee feels that this is too large of a
percentage. At the next meeting of the Committee, in-depth discussions will be
made and a recommendation to the Board of Aldermen will be made concerning this
percentage.
      b.   Service Orders - 2% of the cost of the contract goes to Radiation
Readings. At the next meeting of the Committee, the possibility of bringing
this work in-house will be discussed.
      c.   Concerning both the 5% for Banners and 2% for Radiation Readings, it
was felt by the Committee that this 7% could be utilized more wisely on other
items covered by the service orders.
      d.   Pole Survey and Pole Replacement. The Citys Electric Fund Budget for
Capital Improvement to System is currently at $122,562.00. The Committee
recommends that Board of Aldermen approve spending of this money for BEMC to
conduct a survey and to begin pole replacement
Respectfully Submitted
/s/ Mary Ellen Poole
Alderman, City of Southport
Presented at 10 March 2011
Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to authorize expenditures up to
$122,562.00 for BEMC to conduct an electric pole survey and to begin pole
replacement.
Unanimous vote.
Discussion
Alderman Poole indicated Finance Director, Ms. Miller verified the availability
of the funds in the 2010-2011 budget.
Mr. Cardwell stated the cost of the survey would be $9,900, BEMC will include a
count of street lights, the survey will pinpoint the worst poles, pole
replacement is budgeted yearly, the cost of each pole depends on what is
attached to the pole, and the survey will take approximately two months.
4th of July Festival Committee - Alderman Poole entered into the record:
As Chairman of the 4th of July Festival Committee, I have met with Mr. Wayne
Berry and Mr. Donald Parker and have discussed at length the inter-workings and
tasks involved with the Festival. It is obvious to me, that there is a
tremendous amount of planning, hard work and constant dedication that is
required to conduct this yearly event.
I would like to recommend the appointment of Alderman Ken Karn to serve as a
Liaison for the 2011 Festival, charged with building communicative relations
between both Boards - the 4th of July Festival Board and the City of Southport
Board of Aldermen. This includes but is not limited to working with 4th of July
Festival Board, attending their meetings, and reporting back to the Board of
Aldermen.
This appointment is not intended to preclude the responsibilities of the City
of Southport Staff, such as the City Manager, Director of Public Works,
Director of Tourism, or Police Chief as these responsibilities relate to their
positions.
Respectfully submitted,
/s/ Mary Ellen Poole
Alderman, City of Southport
Submitted on 10 March 2011
Board consensus, Alderman Karn to serve as liaison for the 2011 4 th of July
Festival.
Ft. Johnson Committee - Alderman Frink reported the committee would be meeting
March 11, 2011, 12:00 p.m. in the Board Chambers.
VII.   Departmental Reports
Reports placed in agenda packets.
VIII.   New Business
   a) WWTP Closeout - Mr. Carter Hubard, W. K. Dickson
      Mr. Carter Hubard, W. K. Dickson reported the Wastewater Treatment Plant
had been decommissioned, NCDENR has inspected the site, the permit rescinded,
the flow is going to the new pump station and on to Brunswick County,
approximately 300,000 gallons daily. The project is within budget and he will
have final closeout information for the Boards April meeting.
   b) Central Pump Station Rehabilitation
      Mr. Carter Hubard reported on the status of the rehabilitation of the
central pump station located at Leonard and Burrington Streets; requests for
proposal (RFP) were solicited; five proposals were received to correct the
corrosion and piping, from $78,200 to $225,000, and Carmichael Construction
Company was low bid. Mr. Hubard recommended award of contract to Carmichael
Construction Company, Option 2 in the amount of $ 89,262.64 with a 10%
contingency up to $100,000 total.  
      Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to authorize the City
to enter into a contract up to $100,000 with Carmichael Construction Company to
rehabilitate the central pump station. Unanimous vote.
   c) Resolution of Intent to Consider Annexation - Mr. Vagn Hansen and Mr.
John McHenry, Benchmark CMR
   d) Consideration of Date for Public Informational Meeting for Annexation
   e) Consideration of Date for Public Hearing on the Question of Annexation
      Mr. Vagn Hansen, Benchmark CMR, Inc., gave an overview of the process to
date and presented the Resolutions of Intent to Consider Annexation of two
separate areas. Mr. John McHenry, Benchmark, displayed maps of the proposed
annexation areas and pointed out the dates for the public informational
meeting, public hearing, and adoption:
∙   Public Informational Meeting; Tuesday, April 26, 2011, 6:00 p.m., Board of
Aldermen Chambers
∙   Public Hearing; Thursday, May 19, 2011, 6:00 p.m., Board of Aldermen
Chambers
∙   Adoption; Thursday, June 9, 2011, 6:00 p.m., Board of Aldermen Chambers
      Mike Isenberg, City Attorney, reported the resolutions of intent were in
accordance with the law. Noting the annexation plans for extending services has
to be approved at least 30 days before the public information meeting, Mr.
Isenberg recommended recessing the meeting to Thursday, March 24, 2011, 6:00
p.m. for consideration of approving the annexation reports.
      Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Frink to adopt Resolution of
Intent to Consider Annexation of Area A and fixing the date of a public
informational meeting and a public hearing on the question of annexation.
Unanimous vote.
      Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Potter to adopt a
Resolution of Intent to Consider Annexation of Area B and fixing the date of a
public informational meeting and a public hearing on the question of
annexation. Unanimous vote.
      Resolutions on file with the City Clerks office and incorporated as
Attachment #1.
   f) Consideration of Budget Amendment # 7 FY 2010-2011
      Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to approve Budget
Amendment #7. Unanimous Vote.
Budget Amendment # 7
Fiscal Year 2010-2011
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session March 10, 2011, that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted to adjust line items within the Fire Department and for
appropriating fund balance for items adopted by Board.
General Fund
Budget Budget As
                                                                                        
Amendment Amended
Section I
A.   Revenues Anticipated
Fund Balance Appropriated            50,000
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
R/M Facilities (NC Maritime Museum) 30,000
Contract Services (Website Contract)    20,000
Fire Department
(See Attached)            4,136,535            
ADOPTED this the 10th day of March, 2011
/s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Regina W. Alexander
City Clerk
   g) Consideration of Tax Release (s)
      Alderman Frink moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to approve tax release
(s). Unanimous vote.
   h) Consideration of Arbor Day Proclamation
      Alderman Adams moved, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to adopt the
proclamation. Unanimous vote.   
ARBOR DAY PROCLAMATION
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1454_1282x1296.jpg]
 
WHEREAS , in 1972, J. Sterling Morton proposed to the Nebraska Board of
Agriculture that a special day be set aside for the planting of trees, and
WHEREAS , this holiday called Arbor Day, was first observed with the planting
of more than a million trees in Nebraska, and
WHEREAS , Arbor Day is now observed throughout the nation and the world, and
WHEREAS , trees can reduce the erosion of our precious topsoil by wind and
water, cut heating and cooling costs, moderate the temperature, clean the air,
produce life-giving oxygen, and provide habitat for wildlife, and
WHEREAS , trees are a renewable resource giving us paper, wood for our homes,
fuel for our fires, and beautify our community, and
WHEREAS, trees in our city increase property values, enhance the economic
vitality of business areas, and beautify our community, and
WHEREAS, trees wherever they are planted are a source of joy and spiritual
renewal.
NOW, THEREFORE, I Robert D. Howard, Mayor of the City of Southport, NC, do
hereby proclaim March 18, 2011 as ARBOR DAY in the City and urge all citizens
to celebrate and support efforts to protect our trees and woodlands, and
FURTHER, I urge all citizens to plant trees to gladden the heart and promote
the well-being of this and future generations.
DATED, this 10th day of March, 2011.
/s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Regina W. Alexander
     City Clerk     
   i) Consideration of Resolution to Endorse the City of Southports Application
for The Urban and Community Forestry Grant Program
      Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to adopt the resolution.
Unanimous vote.
RESOLUTION TO ENDORSE THE CITY OF SOUTHPORTS APPLICATION FOR THE
2012 URBAN AND COMMUNITY FORESTRY GRANT PROGRAM
THAT WHEREAS on March 31, 2011, the NC Division of Forest Resources and the
USDA Forest Service, Southern Region will conclude the Request for Proposals to
assist in the comprehensive management of trees, forests and related natural
resources in populated areas for the physiological, sociological, economic, and
aesthetic benefits trees provide to society; and
WHEREAS the City of Southport has Tree City USA status; and
WHEREAS the City of Southport has an opportunity to apply for this 50%-50%
matching grant program in 2011; and
WHEREAS the grant available through the NC Division of Forest Resources and the
USDA Forest Service, Southern Region will provide the basis for preserving and
protecting the trees of Southport that help give the City its special
character;
NOW, BE IT THEREFORE RESOLVED that the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport, North Carolina in session assembled this 10th day of March 2011
endorse the 2012 Urban and Community Forestry Grant Program application for the
City of Southport, North Carolina.
Adopted this 10th day of March 2011.
/s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
ATTEST:       
/s/ Regina Alexander,
City Clerk
   j) Consideration of Resolution to Adopt the Brunswick County Hazard
Mitigation Plan
      City Planner, Amy Nelson introduced Mr. Marc Page, Brunswick County Land
Planner, and he presented the approved 2011 Brunswick County Multi-
jurisdictional Hazard Mitigation Plan. He outlined the process, components and
explained Federal and State requirements for adoption of a hazard mitigation
plan in order to receive Federal and State assistance.
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to adopt the resolution.
Unanimous vote.
RESOLUTION TO ADOPT THE BRUNSWICK COUNTY
MULTI-JURISDICTIONAL HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN
WHEREAS, the City of Southport is vulnerable to an array of natural hazards
that can cause loss of life and damages to public and private property; and
WHEREAS, the City of Southport desires to seek ways to mitigate situations that
may aggravate such circumstances; and
WHEREAS, the development and implementation of a hazard mitigation plan can
result in actions that reduce the long-term risk to life and property from
natural hazards; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Board of Aldermen to protect its citizens and
property from the effects of natural hazards by preparing and maintaining a
local hazard mitigation plan; and
WHEREAS, it is also the intent of the Board of Aldermen to fulfill its
obligation under North Carolina General Statutes, Chapter 166A: North Carolina
Emergency Management Act and Section 322: Mitigation Planning, of the Robert T.
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act to remain eligible to
receive state and federal assistance in the event of a declared disaster
affecting the County; and
WHEREAS, Brunswick County, in coordination with Belville, Boiling Spring Lakes,
Bolivia, Calabash, Leland, Navassa, Northwest, St. James, Sandy Creek,
Shallotte, Southport, and Varnamtown, has prepared a multi-jurisdictional
hazard mitigation plan with input from the appropriate local and state
officials;
WHEREAS, the North Carolina Division of Emergency Management and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency have reviewed the hazard mitigation plan prepared
for Brunswick County for legislative compliance and has approved the plan
pending the completion of local adoption procedures;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport hereby:
∙   Adopts the Brunswick Multi-jurisdictional Hazard Mitigation Plan; and
∙   Agrees to take such other official action as may be reasonably necessary to
carry out the proposed actions of the Plan.
Adopted on March 10, 2011.
City of Southport               /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Regina Alexander,
City Clerk
   k) Consideration of Home Occupation fee reduction from $500 to $50 Planning
Director, Mrs. Nelson explained a reduction of the fee for Home Occupation
Conditional Use Permits is hoped to encourage more people to come forward and
inform the City of their home based business. Alderman Poole stated she had
asked the Planning Board to review the procedures and in depth discussions were
held. The fee change will be posted on utility bills. Alderman Poole moved,
seconded by Alderman Karn to lower the fee from $500 to $50 for Home Occupation
Conditional Use Permits. Unanimous vote.
   l) Consideration of Support of Transportation Improvements in Eastern
Brunswick County
Alderman Frink moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to adopt the resolution.
Unanimous vote.
RESOLUTION IN SUPPORT OF TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENTS IN
EASTERN BRUNSWICK COUNTY
WHEREAS, Brunswick County continues to have very serious transportation
impediments that hinder safe travel and timely evacuations for residents; and
WHEREAS, over 20,000 residents live in the area comprised of Southport, Oak
Island, Caswell Beach, Bald Head Island, Boiling Spring Lakes and St. James;
and
WHEREAS, the area population increases to over 45,000 during the summer season;
and
WHEREAS, there are four state roads serving the area to include NC 133, NC 87,
NC 211 and Midway Road; and
WHEREAS, the area is home to the Progress Energy Nuclear Power Plant and the
Sunny Point Military Ocean Terminal, and
WHEREAS, all of the access/egress routes are prone to flooding during major
rain events, hurricanes and tropical storms, prohibiting safe and timely
evacuations and isolating a major portion of Brunswick County often for several
days; and
WHEREAS, the North Carolina Transportation Plan should be expanded to address
the immediate needs for road and bridge improvements.
WHEREAS, the majority of the current NCDOT improvements are volume and not
safety related;
NOW, THEREFORE, be it ordained by the Southport Board of Aldermen that we
request the North Carolina General Assembly and the North Carolina Department
of Transportation to initiate action to improve the integrity of these four
highways to better insure safe passage during and after major rain events.
Adopted this the 10th day of March, 2011.
      By: /s/ Robert Howard, Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
         City Clerk
   m) Consideration of Resolution to House Bill 309 & Senate Bill 183
Mrs. Nelson explained the legislative bills would allow for electronic
billboards to be placed on all State highways eliminating all authority by the
City to regulate placement or message content. City Attorney Isenberg
concurred.
Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to adopt the resolution.
Unanimous vote.
RESOLUTION OPPOSING NORTH CAROLINA SENATE BILL 183 AND NORTH CAROLINA HOUSE
BILL 309
THAT WHEREAS on March 2, 2011, and March 9, 2011, the NC Senate and NC House,
respectively, filed NC Senate Bill 183 and NC House Bill 309 concerning outdoor
advertising which would allow digital and tri-vision billboards installation;
and
WHEREAS the City of Southport has a portion of NC 211 and NC 87 in its
jurisdiction; and
WHEREAS the bills introduced would remove control of digital and tri-vision
billboards from the local jurisdiction; and
WHEREAS the City of Southport wishes to maintain that control;
NOW, BE IT THEREFORE RESOLVED that the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport, North Carolina in session assembled this 10th day of March 2011
resolve to oppose NC Senate Bill 183 and NC House Bill 309.
Adopted this 10th day of March 2011.
/s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
City Clerk
IX.   Other Business
X.   City Managers Comments
∙   Alderman Boguskie is working with the Lions Club on two new Southport
signs.
∙   Requests for Proposals (RFP) have gone out for street paving repairs.
∙   Budget preparations are underway.
∙   The City will be spraying for mosquitos.
∙   The Electric Cities car will be in Southport for the 4 th of July festival.
Interim Manager Alexander announced the first annual City Officials And
Residents Enhance Southport C.A.R.E. Day, April 16, 2011. Code Enforcement
Officer, Charles Drew explained the event will be in conjunction with the North
Carolina Department of Transportation annual Litter Sweep and the Citys Spring
Clean Up.
Alderman Adams moved, seconded by Alderman Frink to adopt the proclamation.
Unanimous vote.
C.A.R.E. DAY 2011
C ity Officials A nd R esidents E nhance Southport
PROCLAMATION
WHEREAS, the City of Southport organizes an annual spring cleanup to ensure
beautiful streets in Southport; and
WHEREAS, the C.A.R.E. DAY 2011 cleanup will take place April 16, 2011 and
encourages the local government, civic and professional groups, businesses,
families and individual citizens to participate in the City of Southport
C.A.R.E. DAY cleanup; and
WHEREAS, the City of Southport employees, community leaders, civic and
community organizations, businesses, and environmentally concerned citizens
cleanup during C.A.R.E. DAY and may receive certificates of appreciation for
their participation; and
WHEREAS, the natural beauty of our city and a clean environment are sources of
great pride for all Southport residents, stimulating existing and recruiting
new businesses; attracting tourists, and
WHEREAS, the cleanup will increase awareness of the need for cleaner streets,
emphasize the importance of not littering, and encourage recycling of solid
wastes; and
WHEREAS, the C.A.R.E. DAY 2011 cleanup will be the first of an annual event of
city officials, civic and community groups, businesses and individual citizens
that donate their labor and time to keep our streets clean; and
NOW THEREFORE, The Southport Board of Aldermen does hereby proclaim April 16,
2011 as C.A.R.E. DAY in Southport, North Carolina and encourages citizens to
take an active role in making the community cleaner.
This 10th day of March, 2011.
City of Southport               By: /s/ Robert D. Howard
Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Regina W. Alexander
City Clerk
XI.   Board Comments
∙   Alderman Adams discussed his conversations with residents about their high
electricity bills. He requested all electric meters be re-certified and checked
for proper calibration.
∙   Mayor Howard discussed the Chirico owned Yacht Basin property which has
been under consideration for the past year. He distributed a copy of an e-mail
received March 8 from Ms. Smith, who is in charge of the property, requesting a
meeting on March 17. Mayor Howard talked about the flooding in the area and he
suggested City staff meet with Ms. Smith to explain how the flooding has been
impacted since a ditch has been covered.
∙   Mayor Howard provided a letter explaining to the State Treasurer the
circumstances behind the late submittal of the audit report due in October and
was submitted in January.
∙   Mayor Howard reported receipt of a letter from Downtown Southport Inc. and
a scheduled meeting on March 23, 2011 at 2:00 p.m. in the Dosher Hospital Board
Room (Hood Building).
∙   Mayor Howard reported a tentative date of April 19 to hear a presentation
from Resource Institute.
∙   Mayor Howard discussed the contract with John Sawyer Architects for the
Spatial Needs Study and directive to staff to move forward with a request for
proposal (RFP) for renovation of City Hall to include concept, layout, cost
estimate and construction drawings. Board Consensus, City Manager move forward
with the RFP.
∙   Mayor Howard reported on the property re-evaluations made by Brunswick
County and the impact the reduction will have on estimated tax revenues and
fiscal year 2011-2012 budget.
∙   Mayor Howard reported City Staff will be preparing the 2011 Powell Bill
allocations.
∙   Mayor Howard reported that Mr. Peter Frandano resigned from the
Beautification Committee. Consensus was the vacancy would be filled when
expiration of term.
∙   Mayor Howard reported he and Alderman Boguskie met with Brunswick County
representatives regarding the rescue squad and double taxation. The County
acknowledged their responsibility and Mr. Anthony Marzano, Director of
Emergency Services, will be providing a plan which will be reported to the
Board.
∙   Mayor Howard requested consideration of an extension of 30 - 60 days on the
potential need to report on Planning Board and staff relations. Board consensus
was in favor of the request.
∙   Mayor Howard discussed House Bill 117, Electric Cities Usage of Rates.
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to authorize the Mayor and
City Clerk to execute Amendment #3 to the Clean Water Management Trust Fund
(CWMTF) grant agreement. Unanimous vote. (Amendment on file in the Clerks
Office)
Alderman Frink moved, seconded by Alderman Potter to go into Executive Session
pursuant to G.S. 143-318.11(A)(3) to consult with the city attorney in order to
preserve the attorney-client privilege in reference to the lawsuit between the
City and South Brunswick Sanitary District and the possible settlement
thereof.  Unanimous vote.
Regular Session Reconvened - 8:35 p.m.
     Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Frink to return to regular
session. Unanimous vote.
No action taken in Closed Session. Heard from attorney.
Meeting recessed to March 24, 2011, 6:00 p.m. to consider adoption of the
annexation reports.
______________________________
Mayor
____________________________________
City Clerk
MARCH 24, 2011
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN            RECESSED SESSION
MARCH 24, 2011               MEETING MINUTES
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS(CITY HALL) SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
RECESSED SESSION
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
Aldermen Ed Boguskie, Nelson Adams, Ken Karn
Mary Ellen Poole, Jwantana Frink
ABSENT:      Vickie Potter
STAFF PRESENT:   Regina Alexander, Interim City Manager/City Clerk
Michele Windham, Deputy City Clerk
I.   Call to Order - 6:00
Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
II.   Invocation
Alderman Boguskie welcomed citizens and Alderman Adams pronounced the
invocation.
III.   Unfinished Business
Mr. Vagn Hansen and Mr. John McHenry, Benchmark CMR, Inc. presented the Area A
Annexation Report to the Board.
Report available in the City Clerks Office
After careful examination and discussion of the report of plans for extending
services to the area designated as Area A under the Resolution of Intent
adopted on March 10, 2011, Alderman Boguskie moved for approval of the report,
seconded by Alderman Karn, and the motion passed, 6 votes to 0.
Mr. Hansen and Mr. McHenry presented the Area B Annexation Report.
Report available in the City Clerks Office
After careful examination and discussion of the report of plans for extending
services to the area designated as Area B under the Resolution of Intent
adopted on March 10, 2011, Alderman Boguskie moved for approval of the report,
seconded by Alderman Karn, and the motion passed, 6 votes to 0.
Mayor Howard announced the scheduled meetings for annexation:
∙   Tuesday, April 26, 2011, 6:00 p.m. - Public Information Meeting
∙   Thursday, May 19, 2011, 6:00 p.m. - Public Hearing
∙   Thursday, June 9, 2011, 6:00 p.m. - Consideration of Adoption
IV.   Other Business
Alderman Adams moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to schedule a workshop on
Monday, April 4, 2011 at 6:00 p.m. to consider a request by Brunswick County to
extend County waste water lines to Rivermist Subdivision and their proposal to
combine facilities at Rivermist.
Mayor Howard announced the North Carolina League of Municipalities (NCLM) Town
Hall Day is Wednesday, May 4, 2011 in Raleigh.
Adjournment - 8:14 p.m.
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to adjourn. Unanimous vote.
__________________________________
Mayor
_____________________________________
Clerk
APRIL 4, 2011
WORKSHOP MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN            WORKSHOP
APRIL 4, 2011                MEETING MINUTES
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS(CITY HALL) SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Ed Boguskie, Vickie Potter, Ken Karn
         Mary Ellen Poole, Jwantana Frink
ABSENT:      Nelson Adams
STAFF PRESENT:   Regina Alexander, Interim City Manager/City Clerk
         Michele Windham, Deputy Clerk
         Ralph Cardwell, Public Services Director
         Patty Miller, Finance Director
I.   Call to Order - 6:00
Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
II.   Invocation
Mayor Howard pronounced the invocation.
III.   Proposal from Brunswick County to extend a wastewater line to the
Rivermist Pump Station and use of a City wastewater transmission line to St.
James.
Alderman Boguskie reported on a meeting with Brunswick County Public Utilities
on March 22, 2011 attended by himself, Mr. Cardwell, Interim Manager Alexander,
and Mr. Marty Lawing, Mr. Jerry Pierce, and Mr. John Nichols of Brunswick
County.
(Report on file in Clerks office and attached as Exhibit A.)
Alderman Boguskie explained that Brunswick County Public Utilities is in the
process of providing Boiling Spring Lakes with a wastewater collection system
and would like the City of Southport to allow the County to run a wastewater
transmission line across City of Southport Wastewater Service Area, utilization
of the Rivermist Pump Station and 3 miles of a City wastewater transmission
line. The proposal from the County is to have an agreement with the City
sharing in the cost of operating the Rivermist Pump Station and a cost for
using the wastewater transmission line.
Alderman Boguskie provided Board members with the Memorandum of Understanding
between the City and Brunswick County providing for the County to treat up to
500,000 gallons a day of wastewater at the West Brunswick Regional Water
Reclamation Facility.
(Memorandum of Understanding on file in the Clerks office and attached as
Exhibit B.)
Mr. Cardwell pointed out Oak Island and other communities have partnered with
the County in the West Brunswick Regional Water Reclamation Facility and have
purchased sewer allocation. He indicated the City is not a direct partner and
leases sewer allocations from the County partnership at $2.98/per thousand
gallon. He suggested future purchase of unused allocations from the partner
cities.
There was discussion about current and projected sewer allocation needs.
Consensus was allocation concerns are not a part of the proposal for running
the pipeline. Allocation will be addressed at a future date.
Recommendation was made by Mr. Cardwell and Alderman Boguskie that a meter be
installed at the edge of the City of Southport Wastewater Service Area as shown
on a September 18, 2008 drawing by W. K. Dickson and incorporated as part of
Exhibit B.
Mr. Cardwell recommended the agreement stipulate the County provide for
maintenance and expansion of the Rivermist Pump Station and maintenance of 3
miles of wastewater transmission line.
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to proceed with a mutual
agreement of understanding by both parties for the County to run a wastewater
transmission line across the City of Southport Wastewater Service Area, utilize
the Rivermist Pump Station and 3 miles of wastewater transmission line subject
to all conditions discussed. Motion passed 5-0.
Adjournment - 6:50 p.m.
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to adjourn. Unanimous vote.
__________________________________
Mayor
_____________________________________
Clerk
APRIL 14, 2011
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN            REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
APRIL 14, 2011               6:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS(CITY HALL) SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Ed Boguskie, Nelson Adams, Ken Karn
         Vickie Potter, Mary Ellen Poole, Jwantana Frink
ABSENT:      None
STAFF PRESENT:   Regina W. Alexander, Interim City Manager/MMC-City Clerk
         Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
         Michele Windham, Deputy Clerk
         Amy Nelson, Planning Director
         Patty Miller, Finance Director
         Ralph Cardwell, Public Services Director
         Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
         Jerry Dove, Chief of Police
         Neal Sage, Chief VRS
I.   Call to Order - 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
II.   Invocation
Alderman Karn welcomed citizens and pronounced the invocation.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Howard stated if any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.
III.   Approval of Minutes
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to approve the March 10,
2011 regular meeting minutes, vote unanimous.
Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to approve the March 10, 2011
executive session meeting minutes, vote unanimous.
Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Frink to approve the March 24, 2011
recessed meeting minutes, vote unanimous.
IV.   Approval of Agenda
Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Frink to approve the agenda as
amended.
Unanimous vote.
∙   Add Executive Session for attorney/client conversation concerning merger of
Duke Energy and Progress Energy.
∙   Per Alderman Karn, remove Item VIII (f)
V.   Public Comments
Mayor Howard reminded audience members of the Annexation Public Information
meeting scheduled for April 26, 6:00 p.m. and a Public Hearing on May 19, 6:00
p.m.
Mr. Russ Ferris, 406 W. West Street, distributed a handout to Board members and
he spoke about comments made by Alderman Karn on his personal Facebook page.
Mr. Tom Florkiewicz, 1014 Bonner Bussells Drive, gave a brief history of the
Rescue Squad and spoke in support of keeping the squad a department within the
City.
Dr. Sylvia Beck, 4836 Coastal Road, read from a prepared statement in support
of keeping the Waterfront Market on the Ft. Johnston Garrison lawn and she
criticized aspects of the market. Statement on file in the Clerks office.
Mr. Chris Russell, East Coast Engineering and Surveying in Shallotte introduced
himself and offered the services of his business.
Mrs. Stuart Callari, W. Nash Street, recalled the history of the Garrison lawn.
Mrs. Shirley Wilson, 502 Brunswick Street, read a statement from Peggy
Popelars, president of Downtown Southport, Inc. (DSI) recalling the evolution
of the market. Statement on file in the Clerks office.
Mr. Michael Rice, 2012 Bonner Bussells Drive, spoke against annexation and
urged the Board to wait for legislative reform.
Mr. Doug Stone, 6074 Sullivans Ridge Road expressed concerns about the Rescue
Squad. He proposed a thorough evaluation be made prior to a decision being
reach and he suggested a public hearing be held.
Mr. Adam Bingel, 1016 Bonner Bussells Drive spoke against annexation implying
it was to generate revenue for the City.
Mr. W. Dean Adams, 6013 Robert Ruark Drive, spoke about the stormwater drainage
issues of roads in Smithville Woods.
VI.   Committee Reports
Ft. Johnston Committee - Alderman Frink reported the committee met March 11.
   - Concerns had been raised that events have been damaging the lawn
   - Concerns that existing rules are not being followed
   - Committee agreed cars should not drive on the lawn
   - Committee recommends establishing a use policy for the property in lieu of
referring to the citys 20+ page concession agreement
Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Poole that the Ft. Johnston Committee
and Downtown Southport Inc., prepare a policy for use of the Garrison lawn.
Unanimous vote.
Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to add Alderman Potter to
the Ft. Johnston Committee. Unanimous vote.
Mayor Howard and Mayor Pro-Tem Poole recognized city police officers honored at
the Rotary Law Enforcement Awards Luncheon; Marilyn Stevens as support person,
officer James Brown as reserve officer, and officer Melissa Hinnant as Officer
of the Year. Officer Glwyn Sawyer was presented with a certificate of life
saving award for responding to a call April 1 of a woman suffering a heart
attack, administering CPR and saving her life.
VII.   Departmental Reports
Reports placed in agenda packets
VIII.   New Business
a) Consideration of Downtown Promotion Idea
Karen Spar, Executive Vice President of the Southport-Oak Island Area Chamber
of Commerce, reported a new Chamber subcommittee of the Business Development
Committee had been established. Mr. Ben Styers, Coldwell Banker SeaCoast Realty
agent explained the purpose of the committee is to promote expansion,
maintenance and diversification of the economic base in the area. An event
called Shop to the Beat was proposed for the first and third Thursday, May 19
th through November 17 th , 4:00 - 6:00 pm. with amateur musicians and
entertainers stationed throughout the citys business district near
participating merchants to promote sales. A request was made for a Board
liaison to the subcommittee, permission to display a banner outside the Visitor
Center from May through November, opening of City owned restroom facilities on
the nights of the event and promotion of the event on the City utility bills.
Alderman Poole volunteered to serve as liaison. Alderman Karn moved, seconded
by Alderman Poole to endorse the event. Unanimous vote.
b) Consideration of Funding for City Beautification Maintenance
Mr. Roy Pender read a memorandum from the Southport Beautification Committee
outlining priorities for beautification of Southport City parks, open spaces,
cemeteries and sidewalks. He announced that Southport will be the featured town
in OUR STATE MAGAZINE in October. Recommendations made by the Southport
Beautification Committee: 1. Determine what is required for proper maintenance.
2. Funding for maintenance, staff, seasonal labor, and equipment be increased.
3. Maximize results by city departments reaching out to knowledgeable partners
such as Brunswick Community College, NC Agricultural Extension Services and
Beautification Committee members.
No action taken by the Board.
c) Report of the N.C. Coastal Resources Commission revisions to a draft policy
on Sea Level Rise
Mike Lopazonski of the North Carolina Coastal Resources Commission made a
presentation on sea-level rise. Mr. Lopazonski encouraged the Board to adopt a
sea-level-rise policy for the Citys long-term land use planning. Board members
indicated they would provide written comments regarding the proposal.
d) Consideration of utilizing the closed Wastewater Treatment Plant on West
West Street as a mariculture and renewable technologies business accelerator
and education park
Dr. Kimberly Jones, Alganomics, made a presentation outlining a request to
lease the decommissioned wastewater treatment facility on W. West Street for
two years to develop a mariculture and renewable technologies business and
education park. She indicated there would be no financial obligation by the
City and it would be a potential revenue source for the City through a lease,
energy tax credit and carbon credits. Dr. Jones stated the equipment is easily
mobile, local jobs would be created, it would promote Southports maritime
heritage, provide educational opportunities, stimulate economic development and
become a model for public/private collaborations. Alderman Adams noted the
request had been before the Board previously. He pointed out any lease or sale
of the property would require advertisement and the Public Services Department
was still using the property for storage of equipment.
Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Boguskie for two Board members to
meet with Dr. Jones and the City Public Services Department to determine if it
is feasible to put Alganomics on the property and to develop an agreement for a
term of two years. Mayor Howard pointed out the request should go through the
City Manager. Alderman Boguskie withdrew his second. Motion died for lack of a
second.
e) Consideration of approval for Change Order # 2, WWTP
Carter Hubard presented final closeout information for the Wastewater Pump
Station and Transmission Line contract with State Utility Contractors. Alderman
Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Adams to approve Change Order # 2 in the
amount of $73,862. Unanimous vote.
f) Consideration and action to set up meetings with the property owners in the
proposed annexation areas and the Board in order to hear concerns and discuss
options.
Item removed from the agenda.
g) Consideration to purchase an air compressor for the Street Department using
Powell Bill Monies
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to authorize expenditure
from Powell Bill funds up to $13,500 for the purchase of an air compressor.
Unanimous vote.
h) Consideration of motion to begin advertising for a City Manager immediately
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to advertise for the City
Manager position. The votes were 2 ayes: Aldermen Boguskie and Karn. 4 nays :
Aldermen Adams, Frink, Poole, Potter. Motion failed 4-2
i)     Consideration of a motion to accept the low bid for City sidewalks
Alderman Boguskie reported the bids for sidewalks had been received. Manager
Alexander gave the bid results; Figured Enterprises $15,087, Millennium
Contractors, Inc. $16,525, Barnhill Contracting Co. $42,870. Alderman Boguskie
moved, seconded by Alderman Potter to accept the low bid. Unanimous vote.
j)     Consideration of discussion to give citizens the opportunity to be heard
concerning the Southport Rescue Unit before a Board decision
Mayor Howard and Alderman Boguskie gave an account of meeting with County
officials regarding emergency services. Alderman Boguskie reported the County
Emergency Services responds to 100 percent of calls within the city. Mayor
Howard noted the citizens of Southport are taxed twice for the services
provided and the City will have a difficult time funding the needed capital
expenditures for equipment and facilities for the City Rescue Squad. Responding
to a query by Alderman Karn, Rescue Chief Neil Sage reported the squad pays for
its operational expenses. The County report of call types and response times
provided to Board members.
k)    Consideration of a workshop to determine how the various departments in
City Hall will be relocated when the renovation of City Hall begins.
Consensus of the Board to hold a workshop on Monday, May 2, 2011 at 6:00 p.m.
for citizens to be heard concerning the Southport Rescue Unit and to discuss
the relocation of City Hall departments.
l)     Consideration of a Proclamation for a National Day of Prayer May 5, 2011
and the 2011 Earth Day Proclamation.
Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to adopt the National Day
of Prayer Proclamation. Unanimous vote.
PROCLAMATION
NATIONAL DAY OF PRAYER
WHEREAS, civic prayers and national days of prayer have a long and venerable
history in our constitutional republic, dating back to the First Continental
Congress in 1775; and
WHEREAS, the Declaration of Independence, our first statement as Americans of
national purpose and identity, made the Laws of Nature and Natures God the
foundation of our United States of America and asserted that people have
inalienable rights that are God-given; and
WHEREAS, the Supreme Court has affirmed the right of state legislatures to open
their sessions with prayer and the Supreme Court and the U.S. Congress
themselves begin each day with prayer; and
WHEREAS, in 1988 legislation setting aside the first Thursday of May in each
year as a National Day of Prayer was passed unanimously by both Houses of
Congress and signed by President Ronald Reagan; and
WHEREAS, the National Day of Prayer is an opportunity for Americans of all
faiths to join in united prayer to acknowledge our dependence on God, to give
thanks for blessings received, to request healing for wounds endured, and to
ask God to guide our leaders and bring wholeness to the United States and her
citizens; and
WHEREAS, it is fitting and proper to give thanks to God by observing a day of
prayer in the City of Southport when all may acknowledge our blessings and
express gratitude for them, while recognizing the needs for strengthening
religious and moral values in our State and Nation; and
NOW, THEREFORE, I Robert D. Howard, Mayor of the City of Southport, and Board
of Aldermen do hereby proclaim May 5, 2011 as A DAY OF PRAYER IN SOUTHPORT and
urge all citizens of Southport to observe the day in ways appropriate to its
importance and significance.
This 14th day of April 2011.
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard
Attest: /s/  Regina W. Alexander            Mayor
City Clerk
 
Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Potter to adopt the 2011 Earth Day
Proclamation. Unanimous Vote.
City of Southport
2City of Southport
2011 Earth Day Proclamation
WHEREAS, the first Earth Day was celebrated on April 22, 1970, and was founded
by the late Senator Gaylord Nelson with the goal of inspiring environmental
awareness and encouraging the conservation, protection and appreciation of our
nations natural resources; and
WHEREAS, it is the responsibility of each of us to safeguard the environment,
by recognizing that all human life depends upon the Earth and upon one another
for our mutual existence, well-being and development; and
WHEREAS, the steps we can take to protect and preserve our natural environment
through education, partnerships and positive actions should be encouraged; and
WHEREAS, the citizens of Southport are committed not only to the protection and
preservation of our environment, but also to the restoration of ecosystems and
habitat; and
WHEREAS, in furtherance of this objective the City of Southport supports
organizations that participate in Earth Day 2011; and
WHEREAS, the City commends all who participates in Earth Day, for their
dedication in taking a proactive role in shaping the future of our environment
and in protecting the earths precious natural resource;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that I, Robert D. Howard, Mayor of the City of
Southport, do hereby proclaim April 22, 2011, as
EARTH DAY
and urge all our citizens to be mindful of local, state and national laws which
protect our environment and to join in efforts to preserve the beauty and
wonder of the lands, skies and water of the Earth in all its diversity.
This the 14 th day of April 2011
/s/  Robert D. Howard, Mayor
m) Consideration of rate adjustment for weekly yard debris pick-up (Wednesdays)
Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to accept staff
recommendation to increase the weekly yard debris pick-up fee to $7.50 per
month. Unanimous vote.
n) Consideration of a request to advertise tax liens
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Frink to authorize the tax
collector to advertise delinquent taxes on real property. Unanimous vote.
o) Consideration of a donation of $1500 to the N.C. 4 th of July Festival
Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to donate $2,000 to the N.C. 4
th of July Festival. Unanimous vote. (Monies to be taken from Board donations)
           Discussion:
Alderman Poole reported the 9/11 US Flag will be present during the
Naturalization ceremony.
Alderman Karn requested the Street Committee consider repairing or repaving the
parking lot at Waterfront Park.
IX. Other Business
Closed Session - 9:08 p.m.
Mayor Howard entertained a motion to go into Closed Session pursuant to
G.S.143-318.11(a)(3) to consult with the City attorney regarding legal issues
resulting from the proposed merger of Progress Energy & Duke Power.
Alderman Frink moved, seconded by Alderman Pool to go into Closed Session.
Unanimous vote.
Regular Session Reconvened - 9:41 p.m.
Alderman Boguskie motioned to re-enter regular session, seconded by Alderman
Karn. Unanimous vote.
Alderman Adams moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to join seven other North
Carolina communities in hiring legal counsel and a consultant to review the
merger of Duke Energy and Progress Energy to determine if the cities would
benefit or be harmed by the merger and to authorize expenditure up to $12,500
to participate in this process. Unanimous vote.
X. City Manager Comments
C.A.R.E. Day ( City Officials And Residents Enhance Southport) to be held April
16, 2011, 8:00 a.m. - 12:00 p.m. meeting at Waterfront Park with lunch to
follow at Fire Headquarters.
Town Hall Day Luncheon with Representative Mike McIntyre, Thursday, April 21,
2011 at Oak Island Town Hall.
City Street Department cleaned up East Moore Street roundabout
Wildwood Landscape Company will be cleaning up the traffic triangle at State
Road 87 & 211 during C.A.R.E. Day.
The U.S. Coast Guard Station Oak Island will be cleaning up the Old Smithville
Burying Ground on Earth Day, April 22.
The Street Department is painting parking space lines.
XI. Board Comments
Alderman Karn thanked Southport Realty for providing a place for the Friends of
the Library to hold their book sales.
Alderman Boguskie congratulated Code Enforcement Officer, Charles Drew for his
hard work and success of the Spring Clean Up running April 11 through 16.
Alderman Poole expressed appreciation for appointment as liaison to Shop To The
Beat, and to the City Manager for organizing C.A.R.E. Day 2011. Alderman Poole
conveyed her hope that citizens would establish a Friends of Ft. Johnston
group.
XII. Adjournment
Alderman Frink moved, seconded by Alderman Potter to adjourn the meeting at 9:
54 p.m. Unanimous vote.
      _________________________________
         Mayor
________________________________
Clerk
MAY 2, 2011
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN            WORKSHOP MINUTES
MAY 2, 2011                  6:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS(CITY HALL) SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
WORKSHOP MINUTES
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Ed Boguskie, Nelson Adams, Ken Karn
         Vickie Potter, Mary Ellen Poole
ABSENT:      Jwantana Frink
STAFF PRESENT:   Regina W. Alexander, Interim City Manager/MMC-City Clerk
         Michele Windham, Deputy Clerk
         Patty Miller, Finance Director
         Neal Sage, Chief VRS
I.   Call to Order - 6:00 p.m.
   Mayor Howard called the workshop to order at 6:00 p.m.
II.   Invocation
   Mayor Howard welcomed citizens and pronounced the invocation.
III.   Purpose of Workshop
   Mayor Howard stated the purpose of the workshop was to receive public input
relating to the Rescue Squad, discuss the relocation of City departments during
renovation of City Hall and to receive an update on the 2011-2012 Budget. He
stated each person wishing to make comments would have three (3) minutes to
speak
IV.   Public Comments
   Mrs. Diane Boguskie, 502 West Brown Street, shared a personal experience
with the rescue squad and she spoke in support of keeping the squad.
   Mr. Larry McCracken, 4004 Norsemen Loop Road, Unit 1, Rivermist Subdivision,
spoke in support of the rescue squad and discussed raising funds and applying
for grants.
   Ms. Alvina Landkamer, 231 N. Caswell Avenue, told of the rescue squad saving
her life.
   Ms. Ruth Law, resident of Southport since 1985, shared her numerous
experiences with the rescue squad and offered to help raise money.
   Mr. Chris Grace, Boiling Spring Lakes Fire Chief, spoke in support of the
rescue squad and noted the different response times of county ambulances
depending on where they are located at any given time.
   Ms. Margaret Connaughton, 94 year old resident of Southport, told of her son
Patrick serving on the rescue squad and about her experiences with the squad.
   Ms. Fiona Boatram, West Nash Street, expressed her support of the rescue
squad.
   Ms. Catherine Fravel, 311 Yaupon Drive, just outside the City limits, shared
an experience with the rescue squad and she speculated on the response time
during the busy 4 th of July holiday.
   Mr. Doug Ledgett, 312 Stuart Avenue, told of serving on the Fire Department
for 39 years. He expressed support for the rescue squad and disputed that the
citizens are being double taxed for the service.
   Mr. Tom Florkiewicz, 1014 Bonner Bussells, stated he had multiple medical
problems and he supported the rescue squad.
   Ms. Ellen Dorsett, resident of Airport Road, stated she has been a member of
the rescue squad for 33 years. She talked about the multiple roles the squad
performs in caring for a patient and their family. She discussed the addition
of a golf cart for the quick response team during the 4 th of July Festival.
   Mr. John Dahill, Chief of the St. James Fire Department shared his
experiences answering questions people have asked about the duplication of
rescue services provided by both the County and St. James. He emphasized the
importance of public safety and encouraged the Board to retain the Southport
Rescue Squad.
   Mr. Keith Keller, 410 Yaupon Drive Extension, spoke in support of keeping
the rescue squad, pointing out the squad makes up 3.8% of the Citys budget.
   Dr. Billy Sherrod, 224 River Drive, spoke in support of the rescue squad and
offered to help raise money.
   Neil Sage, 604 N. Fodale Avenue and Rescue Squad Chief, addressed the Board.
He pointed out the rescue squad has received no operational funds from the City
for the 2010-2011 budget year but does need assistance with capital
expenditures. Chief Sage indicated application for a FEMA grant is in process,
specifications have been prepared for replacement of the Chevy Suburban, a
used, demo or rebuilt ambulance is being considered, new monitors will be
required to stay inter-linked with the County, and station improvements are
needed. Chief Sage questioned if the County would bring a unit into Southport
at no cost; if a charge by the County, what would the charge be and what would
be the best system for the citizens of Southport.
   Mr. John Barr, resident of Oak Island, spoke in support of the Southport
Rescue Squad and challenged the Board to manage the City budget to keep the
squad and provide the needed equipment.
   Ms. Ann Price spoke in support of the Rescue Squad.
   Mrs. Karen Sage, wife of Neil Sage and former school principal, spoke about
the invaluable service the Rescue Squad provided to the entire community.
V.   Agenda Items
   a. Rescue Squad
      Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Potter to keep the rescue
squad.
Discussion
   Alderman Karn stated it is his opinion that the rescue squad is an essential
service.
   Alderman Poole stated she had more questions and would like time to review
and consider the comments given and the information provided. Alderman Adams
agreed and pointed out that Alderman Frink was absent.
   Aye: Aldermen Karn, Boguskie and Potter. Nay: Aldermen Nelson and Poole.
Motion passed 3 - 2.
   b. City Hall Relocation
   The Board agreed to proceed with Option 1 & 2 of the Space Needs Assessment
relating to City Hall and that City Hall would be vacated and departments would
utilize other City buildings during the renovation.
   Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to authorize the City
manager to issue RFPs for design, development, schematic, construction drawings
and project completion for City Hall renovations and to have those documents be
ready for possible award of a contract during the 2010-2011 budget year.
Unanimous vote
   c. Budget Update
   Manager Alexander stated the 2011-2012 budget will be presented to the Board
during their May 12 regular meeting. She indicated the budget is revenue
neutral, there will be a change in the health care benefits, water and sewer
rates may increase, options are being considered for the City owned property
located near Military Ocean Terminal Sunny Point, and staff is requesting an
increase in rental fees for City buildings and boat slips. She praised the hard
work of Finance Director, Patty Miller.
   Manager Alexander stated money is in the 2011-2012 budget for the City Hall
renovation architectural design. The Board agreed to solicit RFPs and award a
contract prior to the end of budget year 2010-2011.
VI.   Other Business
   Mayor Howard stated concerns were raised about the cost of providing sewer
to the proposed annexed areas during the April 26 public informational meeting.
Mayor Howard stated the three methods by which sewer lines may be extended:
   1.   By petition of at least fifty (50) percent of all property owners who,
combined, own at least fifty (50) percent of the linear footage of the land.
   2.   Petition by a property owner to the City for the extension of one or
more lines to benefit their individual property.
   3.   By the action of the Board of Aldermen, who may determine that a line
extension is beneficial to the public.
Consensus of the Board was to hold discussions until the May 12 regular
meeting.
..............................
A workshop was scheduled for Wednesday, May 25 at 6:00 p.m. to meet with
Resource Institute on a possible master plan for the waterfront.
..............................
Manager Alexander announced there will be evening filming taking place between
May 23 and June 10.
VII.   Adjournment
   Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to adjourn the meeting at
8:08 p.m. Unanimous vote
_________________________________
Mayor
________________________________
Clerk
MAY 12, 2011
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN            REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
MAY 12, 2011                 6:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS(CITY HALL) SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Ed Boguskie, Nelson Adams, Ken Karn,
         Mary Ellen Poole, Jwantana Frink
ABSENT:      Vickie Potter
STAFF PRESENT:   Regina W. Alexander, Interim City Manager/MMC-City Clerk
         Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
         Michele Windham, Deputy Clerk
         Amy Nelson, Planning Director
         Patty Miller, Finance Director
         Ralph Cardwell, Public Services Director
         Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
         Jerry Dove, Chief of Police
         Neal Sage, Chief VRS
I.   Call to Order - 6:00 p.m.
   Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
II.   Invocation
   Alderman Frink welcomed citizens.
   Police Chief Jerry Dove pronounced the invocation.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Howard stated if any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.
III.   Approval of Minutes
   Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to approve the April 4, 2011
workshop meeting minutes, vote unanimous.
   Alderman Karn pointed out an omission in the April 14, 2011 regular meeting
minutes; IX. Other Business, Regular Session Reconvened, authorize expenditure
up to $12,500 to participate in this process. Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded
by Alderman Poole to approve the minutes as amended, vote unanimous.
   Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to approve the April 14,
2011 executive session meeting minutes, vote unanimous.
IV.   Approval of Agenda
   Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Frink to approve the agenda as
amended.
   Unanimous vote.
      $   Add Executive Session for attorney/client discussion concerning the
Southeast Brunswick Sanitary District civil suit.
V.   Public Comments
   Ms. Pat Sykes,1002 Fairley Drive, spoke against the proposed annexation.
   Mr. Frank Popelars, 1023 Captain Adkins Drive, spoke in opposition to the
proposed annexation.
   Mr. Michael Rice, 2012 Bonner Bussells Drive, thanked City staff for their
helpfulness during the April 26 Public Annexation Informational Meeting. Mr.
Rice discussed the annexation reform bill in the North Carolina legislature and
stated his opposition to the annexation.
   Mr. Jay Royal, owner of Royal Motor Coach on N. Howe Street, talked about
the residents on Jabbertown Road who are on fixed incomes and the effects the
proposed annexation could have on them.
   Mr. Ken Stewart, 603 Fodale Avenue and owner of Stewarts Hardware, spoke
about a recent robbery at his business. He talked about the professionalism and
advanced technological tools available to the County during the robbery
investigation. Mr. Stewart spoke against the proposed annexation.
   Mr. Dennis Pettit, 1016 Captain Adkins Drive, commented on the estimated
cost and potential overrun costs associated with providing sewer service to the
proposed annexation area.
   Mr. Adam Bingel, 1016 Bonner Bussells Drive, spoke about a State Port Pilot
annexation article and survey.
VI.   Committee Reports
   Alderman Karn reported the Electric Committee met April 27 and May 3, 2011
with the following discussed:
      - Utility pole replacement has started; 8 poles replaced to date.
      - Restructuring rates
      - Operation and maintenance contract with Brunswick Electric Membership
Corp.
      - Policy for hanging banners
      - 5 year plan
      - Future development in Indigo Plantation and Smithville Woods
...............................................
Alderman Boguskie reported the Sewer Committee met May 9, 2011. City/County
partnering operations were discussed as were the sewer impact seat/per gal rate
for restaurants.
...............................................
Alderman Boguskie gave the Tourism Committee report;
   $   Karen Spar, Southport-Oak Island Chamber of Commerce made a presentation
to the committee.
   $   Our State magazine will be doing an article on Southport in October.
................................................
Alderman Poole, liaison to Shop to the Beat, submitted the following:
Shop To the Beat is a family event to promote merchant and restaurant business
in the City. Events will be held on the 1st and 3rd Thursday of every month,
beginning on 19 May and running through November and from 4 - 6 p.m. The
committee has worked very hard and has 40 merchants and restaurants registered
to participate. Live music and entertainment is being planned. Would like to
ask talented individuals or groups to contact the Chamber for details if they
would like to participate.
In your package is a proclamation for consideration that I ask that we endorse
at the appropriate time during tonights meeting.
I would like to publically thank Ms. Alexander and her staff for the assistance
that has been provided to me; Ms. Sphar from the Southport-Oak Island Chamber
of Commerce and Ms. Watkins for chairing this committee and Mr. Styers as co-
chair.
..................................................
Aldermen Karn reported preparations for the 4 th of July Festival are going
along well with the 4 th of July Committee. The Committee recommended
additional port-a-johns be placed on the west side of Howe Street during the
parade. Alderman Poole stated she has received feed back from committee members
who expressed appreciation of Alderman Karns work and the Citys participation.
VII.   Departmental Reports
   Reports placed in agenda packets
VIII.   New Business
   a) Discussion and possible action on a resolution to allow the Southport
Rescue Squad to raise funds through private donations for capital improvement
needs.
   Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to allow the Southport
Rescue Squad Auxiliary Charter and non-profit groups to raise fund for capital
expenditures. Unanimous vote.
   b) Consideration of recommendation from the Water & Sewer Committee
   Alderman Boguskie reported on the sewer partnering options submitted by
Brunswick County:
Option #1 - County provide operation and maintenance, city allows conveyance of
county sewer through city system;
$   City expands the transmission system within its service area at no capital
cost to the City.
$   City continues to provide retail sewer service in the service area.
$   City has no operation and maintenance costs for the Rivermist pump station
and downstream 16" force main.
Option #2 - Regional transmission system expansion
$   City expands the transmission system within its service area at no capital
cost to the City.
$   City remains the retail sewer service provider in the service area.
$   City has no operation and maintenance costs for these major pump stations
and force mains. (Rivermist, Sandy Lane, Downstream 16" force main from Sandy
Lane pump station to the tie-in point at St. James)
$   City is not responsible for Sanitary Sewer Overflows at these major pump
stations and transmission mains.
$   Allow for more effective management of the major pump station and force
main transmission system.
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to accept Option #2,
Regional Transmission System Expansion, of the Sewer Partnering Options for the
City of Southport from Brunswick County and to lower the sewer impact rate from
$25/gal per. seat for a restaurant to $5/gal. per seat; rate effective this
date. Unanimous vote.
   c) Consideration of recommendation from the Tourism Committee for
advertisement promotional in Our State Magazine
   Board consensus to explore advertising options in Our State Magazine and to
promote merchant participation.
   d) Consideration of sewer options in proposed annexation area
   Mayor Howard stated the three options for providing sewer service to the
proposed annexation area.
      1.   By petition of at least fifty (50) percent of all property owners
who, combined, own at least fifty (50) percent of the linear footage of the
land.
      2.   Petition by a property owner to the City for the extension of one or
more lines to benefit their individual property.
      3.   By the action of the Board of Aldermen, who may determine that a
line extension is beneficial to the public.
   Mayor Howard indicated it is the Boards intention, further in the annexation
process, to adopt Option 1.
   e) Consideration of Proclamation in Recognition of Charlie Perry
      Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to approve the
Proclamation in Recognition of Charlie Perry. Unanimous vote.
PROCLAMATION
OF
RECOGNITION
WHEREAS, a basic ingredient in the foundation of this community is the
volunteer initiatives by private citizens, and
WHEREAS, Charlie Perry a local Southport citizen and business owner has given
tirelessly of his time and equipment to the North Carolina Fourth of July
Festival Committee, and
WHEREAS, for 22 years, Charlie has worked quietly and often unnoticed by the
public, and
WHEREAS, the efforts of this individual has enhanced the safety of the City
property, residents and visitors to the festival, and
WHEREAS, Charlie has placed the safety and enjoyment of festival attendees
above his personal and business needs, and
WHEREAS, he has given freely of his maritime knowledge and expertise, and
WHEREAS, the dedication demonstrated by the helpfulness of Charlie Perry &
Company, exemplifies his commitment and patriotism in support of the N.C.
Fourth of July Festival.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Mayor and Southport Board of Aldermen
recognizes Charlie Perry for his contributions to the North Carolina Fourth of
July Festival.
ADOPTED, this 12th day of May 2011 by the Southport Board of Aldermen.
                        /s/ Robert D. Howard
                              Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
City Clerk
   f) Consideration of Proclamation in support of Shop to the Beat
Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to approve the Proclamation
in support of Shop to the Beat.  Unanimous vote.
PROCLAMATION
IN
SUPPORT OF SHOP TO THE BEAT
WHEREAS, the Southport-Oak Island Chamber of Commerce in cooperation with the
City of Southport will host Shop to the Beat, and
WHEREAS, Shop to the Beat will be held in Southport from 4pm 6pm the first and
third Thursday of every month beginning May 19 th and ending November 17, 2011,
and
WHEREAS, participating businesses will have specials and/or merchandising games
duringShop to the Beat, and
WHEREAS, entertainment and music will be provided throughout the business
district for your enjoyment, and
WHEREAS, the Southport Board of Aldermen endorses Shop to the Beat and
encourages participation by local merchants and citizens.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that Mayor Robert D. Howard and the Southport
Board of Aldermen proclaim the first and third Thursdays during the months of
May 19 through November 17, 2011 as Shop to the Beat in the City of Southport,
N. C.
THIS, 12th day of May, 2011.
/s/ Robert D. Howard
Attest:                  Mayor
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
Clerk
   g) Consideration of Planning Board Appointments
      Board consensus; re-advertise the Planning Board vacancies.
   h) Consideration of tax releases
      Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Frink to accept the tax
releases as proposed by staff. Unanimous vote.
IX. Other Business
   Alderman Boguskie reported bids had been received for extension of Caswell
Avenue and it was determined that Powell Bill funds can be used for the
project.
   Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to authorize the City
Manager to award the contract to the low bidder, Brunswick Asphalt in the
amount of $20,875.00 for extension of Caswell Avenue. Unanimous vote.
.............................
   Manager Alexander presented the 2011-2012 budget. A budget workshop was
scheduled for May 26, 2011 6:00 p.m.
............................
   Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to sanction the Memorial
Day celebration to be held on Monday, May 30, 2011 2:00 - 4:00 p.m. at the
Community Building.
X. City Managers Comments
   Manager Alexander reported the budget will be on display at City Hall and
the Harper Library.
XI. Board Comments
   Alderman Karn pointed out the Board can not respond directly to Public
Comment and would address specific annexation questions during the Public
Hearing.
Closed Session - 7:14 p.m.
   Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to go into Closed
Session pursuant to G.S. 143-318.11(a)(3) to consult with the City attorney and
give instructions to him concerning the handling of the civil action filed by
Southeast Brunswick Sanitary District against the City of Southport. Unanimous
vote.
Regular Session reconvened - 7:26 p.m.
   Alderman Karn motioned to re-enter regular session, seconded by Alderman
Boguskie. Unanimous vote.
   Mayor Howard stated the Board received advise from the attorney in regards
to the civil suit with Southeast Brunswick Sanitary District. No action was
taken.
XII. Adjournment
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Frink to adjourn the meeting at
7:27 p.m. Unanimous vote.
   _________________________________
         Mayor
 
________________________________
Clerk
MAY 19, 2011
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN            PUBLIC HEARING MEETING MINUTES
MAY 19, 2011                 6:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS(CITY HALL) SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PUBLIC HEARING MEETING MINUTES
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Ed Boguskie, Nelson Adams, Ken Karn,
         Mary Ellen Poole, Jwantana Frink, Vickie Potter
STAFF PRESENT:   Regina W. Alexander, Interim City Manager/MMC-City Clerk
         Michele Windham, Deputy Clerk
I.   Call to Order - 6:00 p.m.
   Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
II.   Invocation
   Mayor Howard pronounced the invocation.
III.   Public Hearing
   Mr. Vagn Hansen and John McHenry, Benchmark CMR, Inc., explained Annexation
Area A and B Reports as required by North Carolina statutes.
   Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Frink to go into Public
Hearing. Unanimous vote.
   Mr. Michael Rice, 2012 Bonner Bussells, provided a booklet to each Board
member and made a PowerPoint presentation in opposition to the proposed
annexation.
   Mr. Ken Stewart, 603 N. Fodale Avenue and owner of Stewarts Hardware at the
intersection of Jabbertown Road and Rt. 87, talked about the information
provided by the consultants and the qualifying factors for a property to be
deemed urbanized.
   Ms. Judy MacMurdo, 1019 Captain Adkins Drive, read resolutions by the
Brunswick County Board of Commissioners In Support of Legislation Against
Involuntary Annexation and the Brunswick County Republican Party urging the
North Carolina General Assembly to adopt annexation reform legislation.
   Mr. Lew Cabral, 937 E. Leonard Street, expressed his opposition to the
proposed annexation.
   Ms. Jan Mousley, 6005 Robert Ruark Drive, spoke about the property damage
that would occur if sewer service was installed to the proposed annexation
area.
   Mr. David Morgan, 1006 Pilot Circle, spoke in opposition to the proposed
annexation.
   Ms. Carol Kirby, Robert Ruark Drive, talked about the water table in her
yard and the economic effects the annexation could have on fixed income people,
lower income families, and unemployed and under employed individuals.
   Mr. Joe Pasulka, 1014 Captain Adkins Drive, expressed his opposition to the
proposed annexation.
   Mr. Jay Royal, business owner at 1320 N. Howe Street, spoke in opposition to
the proposed annexation.
   Mr. Fred Gann, veteran and resident of Woodside Trailer Park, spoke about
the impact an annexation could have on the nearly 50 residents of the trailer
park.
   Mr. Adam Bingel, 1016 Bonner Bussells Drive, spoke in opposition to the
proposed annexation and stated North Carolina was one of only four States that
allow forced annexation.
   Mr. Bill Fairley, 101 Live Oak Turn, expressed his opinion annexation would
not provide any benefits to the proposed area of annexation.
   Mr. Reese Swan, resident of Woodside Trailer Park, spoke in opposition to
the proposed annexation.
   Mr. Roy Tucker, 1017 Captain Adkins Drive, expressed his belief forced
annexation is inconsistent with US principals and the City could have worked
with residents for a voluntary annexation.
   Mr. Sonny Hickman, 1028 Captain Adkins Drive, talked about his experiences
with installation of sewer service to his home on Oak Island. He stated he
would like to be annexed at some point in the future.
   Mr. Keith Keller, 410 Yaupon Drive Extension, read from the Area B
Annexation Report regarding sewer connections to the proposed annexation area.
He urged those residents attending in the audience to be prepared to challenge
the annexation.
   Mr. Dwight Flanagan, 226 Captain Adkins Drive, spoke in opposition to the
proposed annexation.
   Mr. Earl Clewis, 1648 N. Howe Street and owner of Woodside Trailer Park,
stated his opposition to the proposed annexation.
   Mr. John Bruton, 1308 N. Atlantic Avenue, spoke about his experiences living
previously on N. Ninth Street, foreclosure notices in the newspaper, bank owned
houses, struggling businesses and his opposition to the proposed annexation.
   Mr. John Heller, 1008 Newton Drive (Brunswick County), discussed the prior
annexation meetings, newspaper articles, letters to the editor and the many
hours of volunteer service the residents of Smithville Woods have given to
varied causes.
   Mr. Dean Adams, 6013 Robert Ruark Drive, talked about the flooding issues in
the proposed annexation area.
   Ms. Leslie Worley, 408 Yaupon Drive, spoke in opposition to the proposed
annexation.
   Mr. Bob Pennock, 207 Holly Drive, discussed the Oak Island sewer service
installation project, the estimated cost and the actual price. He questioned
who would pay for sewer service to the proposed annexation area.
   Ms. Penny Tysinger, 14 Canterbury Court, expressed her opposition to the
proposed annexation and her belief the residents of Jabbertown Road were not
able to attend the meeting.
   Ms. Norfrette Bellamy, Jabbertown Road, spoke against the proposed
annexation.
   Mr. Cecil Rhodes, 1007 Captain Adkins Drive, stated his impression that
people are against the proposed annexation due to lack of representation and he
urged the Board to take direction from the State Legislature.
   Mayor Howard asked if there was anyone else wishing to speak. There were no
further public comments.
   Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Frink to go out of Public
Hearing. Unanimous vote.
   Mayor Howard assured members of the audience that their concerns had been
heard and the Board is required by law to wait 10 days for further discussions
and deliberations.
   Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Frink to hold a special meeting
June 2, 2011 at 6:00 p.m. for the purpose of consideration and possible action
on annexation ordinances for Annexation Areas A & B and to consider possible
revisions to the Southport Sewer Policy and possible Amendments to the
annexation reports for said areas. Unanimous vote.
Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to adjourn the meeting at 7:41
p.m. Unanimous vote.
_________________________________
Mayor
________________________________
Clerk
MAY 25, 2011
RESOURCE INSTITUTE PRESENTATION
TO CITY OF SOUTHPORT BOARD OF ALDERMEN
MAY 25, 2011
6:00 P.M.
PRESENT:       Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen, Ken Karn, Vickie Potter, Mary Ellen Poole, Jwantana Frink
ABSENT:       Aldermen Adams, Boguskie
STAFF PRESENT:     Regina Alexander, Interim City Manager/City Clerk
         Michele Windham, Deputy Clerk
         Amy Nelson, Planning Director
         Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
Mayor Howard called the Special Meeting to order for the purpose of hearing a
presentation by Resource Institute for a potential master plan development of
the Citys Waterfront.
Mayor Howard pronounced the invocation.
Mayor Howard spoke about Southport being a tourist destination, the natural
beauty of the Cape Fear River and the opportunities to enhance the river front
to bring people and businesses into the community. He talked about the City of
Mt. Airy hosting an event showcasing their Ararat River project. He noted the
City has ownership of strategic property that would be advantageous to
development and that such an undertaking could not be realized without private
involvement.
Mayor Howard introduced Michael Squeak Smith, Chairman of Resource Institute.
Mr. Smith stated Resource Institute is a 501(c)3 nonprofit organization
incorporated in 2001 with a Mission to provide an avenue of support to other
organizations, cities and nonprofit groups to address natural and human
resource opportunities to enhance the quality of life.  Mr. Smith introduced
Mr. Charles Anderson, Project Developer and they talked about Resource
Institutes:
Objective:   Put relationships to work.
Goal:      Facilitate and manage each project in full partnership with sponsor.
Process:   Secure high quality firms, do project within budget, seek grant and
funding resources, provide project support from start to finish and reduce
sponsor staff requirements.
Mr. Smith and Mr. Anderson displayed before and after pictures of several river
projects and talked in depth about the Mt. Airy Ararat River project;
   $   Donation of the land many years prior.
   $   Desired project:
      - Water quality enhancement
      - Promote water based recreation
      - Infrastructure issues addressed
      - Creation of a new environmental park
      - Creation of a greenway park
      - Upgrade to the soccer park
      - Economic development
   $   Project partners
      - 54 easements from landowners
      - Clean Water Management Trust Fund
      - Division of Water Quality
      - CAMA
Mr. Smith and Mr. Anderson discussed the challenges encountered during the
Ararat project and the multitude of benefits realized.
Mr. Smith and Mr. Anderson exhibited pictures of many Southport waterfront
locations; Wastewater treatment plant, Cape Fear Restaurant, Fort Johnston,
Yacht Basin, flooding at Fishy/Fishy Restaurant, erosion issues at the central
pump station, rip rap areas along the river and they discussed the impact each
has on the waterfront. They talked about the waterfront walkway developments in
Beaufort, North Carolina and Georgetown, South Carolina and the steps that
could be taken to achieve a showcase waterfront for Southport. They emphasized
the importance of creating a community vision with input from citizens,
business owners, City staff and a City formed task force.
Mr. Smith and Mr. Anderson answered questions about the project scope
(anticipated from Kingsley Park to the Southport Marina), how Resource
Institute secures funding for projects, their relationship with other
government agencies, Southports financial investment, and the total project
percentage Resource Institute charges a sponsoring organization.
There was discussion among Aldermen and audience members about including
Stevens Park in a plan, issues with stabilizing the river bank along Bay
Street, and the preservation of Southports uniqueness. Mr. Cliff Pender,
encouraged the City to be proactive.
Alderman Poole thanked the public and Resource Institute.
Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to adjourn the meeting.
Unanimous vote.
_________________________________
Mayor
___________________________________
City Clerk
JUNE 2, 2011
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN             SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
JUNE 2, 2011                  6:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS (CITY HALL) SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Ed Boguskie, Nelson Adams, Jwantana Frink
         Vickie Potter, Mary Ellen Poole
ABSENT:      Alderman Karn
STAFF PRESENT:   Regina W. Alexander, Interim City Manager/MMC-City Clerk
         Michele Windham, Deputy Clerk
         Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
I.   Call to Order - 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:08 p.m.
II.   Invocation
Mayor Howard pronounced the invocation.
III.   New Business
Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Frink to adopt an amendment to
Chapter 19, Article IV, Water & Sewer Policy, Code of Ordinances, City of
Southport. Vote unanimous.
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 19, ARTICLE IV, WATER AND SEWER EXTENSION POLICY,
OF THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT
BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport that Section
19-137 of the Code of Ordinances is hereby amended as follows:
(1)   The introductory sentence to Section 19-137 shall read as follows:
Inside the corporate limits, there are two (2) methods by which water and sewer
extensions can be accomplished.
(2)   Subsection 19-137(3) is hereby repealed and deleted.
This the 2 nd day of June, 2011
City of Southport
ATTEST:                  /s/ Robert D. Howard
/s/ Regina W. Alexander            Mayor
Clerk
Mayor Howard asked for comments from Board members.
The Deputy Clerk read into the record a statement submitted by Alderman Karn:
This has been an arduous and emotional process for all of us: current
residents, those in the areas proposed for annexation, and  the Board of
Aldermen. I will not go into great detail as all of the points, both pro and
con, have been covered. But it is important to understand that the board has
heard all concerns raised by residents in the proposed annexation areasas well
as those of our own citizens and considered them in reaching a decision
tonight.
For me, the major benefits of approving these annexations are:
. To establish a stable tax base within the scope of the services provided by a
municipality of our size.
. To maintain and improve services and development that will substantially
benefit all citizens in our areaincluding those in the proposed annexation
zones.
. Fairness to our current taxpaying citizens.
Annexation helps balance the costs of city benefits among those benefitting
from them. The annexation maps show the division between Southport and the
areas in the county proposed for annexation are arbitrary. The city itself
makes the properties located in close proximity more valuable. As such, any
expenditure to make Southport better--or even to maintain it as it is--should
be shared by all citizens in the area. Southport has been here for over 200
years. Maintaining everything that is Southport comes at a price, but those who
are virtually surrounded by our city limits do not currently contribute to this
support.
The nearby unincorporated residents claim to have county equivalents for
emergency services provided by Southport, but the fact is that Southports
squads are invariably the first responders. Response times for police and
emergency medical services would be much longer if the county were the sole
provider. Annexation area residents currently pay nothing to support those
critical services provided by the taxpayers of the City of Southport.
Southport will incur additional expenses if the areas are annexed into the
City, but in the long term the additional income will enable a higher quality
of services to all. If the annexations are abandoned or rejected, Southport
will have difficulty providing even the basic services to our current residents
in future years without raising taxes. Or, we will be forced to substantially
reduce services over the next few years and everybodyincluding those in the
annexation areaswill lose.
Annexation area residents support our community by shopping in Southport.
However, while 70% of local option sales tax revenues are generated in cities,
we receive only about 29% of that revenue. Many other state- and federally-
allocated funds come to us based on population. Those outside the city
limitseven though they benefit from these fundsare not considered when the
allocations are made.
The only caveat regarding the annexations before you this evening is the
provision in our current city ordinances which allows the Board of Aldermen to
extent sewer service based on what it perceives to be the public good. I feel
strongly that sewer extension should not be forced upon the property owners in
the annexation areas. If changes can be made to the city ordinances and the
annexation report to eliminate that option I would recommend you give it strong
consideration.
One issue that has not been raised in public is that the annexations currently
being consideredif approvedwill enable Southport to annex the business corridor
across the Progress Energy Canal. This will substantially increase the Citys
tax base and ease the pressure to either raise taxes or eliminate services. It
will also enable Southport to make improvements such as the waterfront plan,
replacing old city buildings, building more parks and public spaces while
improving and maintaining those we already have, and much more that Southport
has needed for many years.
If we all pitch in we can create a vibrant community, increase economic
development, and have a high quality of life well into millennium 2000.
I urge my fellow board members to demonstrate vision for our beautiful city by
approving both annexation ordinances before you this evening.
While it may not be a popular decision, it is the best one for Southport
Alderman Poole discussed her deliberations of the annexation issue and her
mission as an elected official to ensure the health, safety and financial
responsibility of the City of Southport for its citizens and future
generations.
Alderman Boguskie spoke about his struggles with the involuntary annexation
issue, concerns of the cost burden for sewer services to the annexation areas,
long standing State statutes, current legislative initiatives and the trust the
citizens of Southport have placed on him.
Alderman Frink shared her experiences with annexation since 2007, her vision
for the future and to see Southport grow.
Alderman Adams stated his respect for both sides of the annexation issue and
his intention to vote for what he believes is the best for the City.
Alderman Potter stated her questions about annexation had been answered.
Mayor Howard thanked the citizens of Smithville Woods and Jabbertown Road for
their comments. He thanked the Board members, the current and previous City
Manager and City staff for their hard work during the process. Mayor Howard
shared the Boards journey through the process that started in January 2010, the
State Statutes in place since 1959 that the Board has been operating under, and
assured the citizens that the City is not in financial trouble.
Alderman Frink moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to adopt the Resolution
Amending Annexation Report for Area A. Vote Unanimous
RESOLUTION OF SOUTHPORT BOARD OF ALDERMEN AMENDING ANNEXATION REPORT
WHEREAS, after a full and thorough review and discussion regarding the report
of plans for extending services to the area being considered for annexation,
the Board of Aldermen did on March 24, 2011, approve the Annexation Report for
Area A; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to and in furtherance of said report and in accordance with
state law, the City did hold a public informational meeting on April 26, 2011,
and a public hearing on May 19, 2011, to hear comments and questions regarding
said report and the proposed annexation; and
WHEREAS, after careful consideration of all questions and comments received and
after further discussion and deliberation regarding said report, it now appears
to the Board of Aldermen that said report should be amended to reflect the
repeal of Section 19-137(3) of the City of Southport Code of Ordinances, which
has the effect of removing the Water and Sewer Extension Policy option of City
initiated water and sewer extensions, and amended to include the addition of a
portion of Robert Ruark Road that is not maintained by NCDOT to the list of
roads, or portions thereof, that may be eligible for maintenance by the City of
Southport following the effective date of the annexation;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT HEREBY RESOLVED that the Annexation Report for Area A
adopted on March 24, 2011, be and is hereby amended as follows:
1. In Section 5 of the report, the description of the level of service to the
annexation area for street maintenance services on page 8 is hereby amended to
add the following to the enumerated list of streets that the City anticipates
assuming maintenance of upon the effective date of the annexation:
11. Robert Ruark Drive SE (portion not under NCDOT maintenance)
2. In Section 5 of the report, the description of the level of service to the
annexation area for street maintenance services on page 8 is hereby amended to
accurately reflect that a portion of Robert Ruark Road is not maintained by
NCDOT by amending the second sentence in the paragraph immediately following
the enumerated list of streets that the City anticipates assuming maintenance
of upon the effective date of the annexation to read:
Streets in the area proposed for annexation that the City will not assume
maintenance responsibility for following the effective date of the annexation
are the portion of Robert Ruark Drive (SR-1852) that is maintained by NCDOT,
and Fairley Street SE, which is noted as a private street on the associated
subdivision plat.
3. In Section 5 of the report, the description of the current level of service
in the City for water service on page 10 is hereby amended to reflect the
repeal of Section 19-137(3) of the Citys Water and Sewer Extension Policy by
amending the third paragraph under said description to read:
All water service connections and water line extensions are governed by the
Citys adopted water supply and extension policies. All developed properties
inside of the City that are located adjacent to a water distribution line are
required to connect to the Citys water system within thirty (30) days of the
installation of the water line, in accordance with Section 19-5 of the Citys
Code of Ordinances. The Citys water extension policy provides two methods by
which water lines may be extended within the corporate limits. These two
methods are outlined in Section 19-137 of the City Code of Ordinances, and
explained briefly herein (for a full explanation, please refer to the City Code
of Ordinances). The first method for accomplishing the extension of water lines
is by petition of at least fifty (50) percent of all property owners who,
combined, own at least fifty (50) percent of the linear footage of the lands
abutting the proposed line extension. In the case of a successful petition
through the first method, the City will complete the project, and finance the
cost of such extensions through a one hundred (100) percent assessment of the
benefitted property owners. The second method of extension is through the
petition by a property owner to the City for the extension of one or more lines
to benefit their individual property. In the case of an extension by this
method, the petitioning property owner is responsible for the full cost of the
proposed line extension and associated costs. In the case of both service
connections and line extensions, additional tap fees and impact fees will apply
to each customer in accordance with the Citys adopted fee schedule.
4. In Section 5 of the report, the description of the current level of service
in the City for sewer service on page 11 is hereby amended to reflect the
repeal of Section 19-137(3) of the Citys Water and Sewer Extension Policy by
amending the third paragraph under said description to read:
All sewer service connections and sewer line extensions are governed by the
Citys adopted sewer use and extension policies. All developed properties inside
of the City that are located adjacent to a sewer collection line are required
to connect to the Citys sewer system within thirty (30) days of the
installation of the sewer line, in accordance with Section 19-5 of the Citys
Code of Ordinances. The Citys sewer extension policy provides two methods by
which sewer lines may be extended within the corporate limits. These two
methods are outlined in Section 19-137 of the City Code of Ordinances, and
explained briefly herein (for a full explanation, please refer to the City Code
of Ordinances). The first method for accomplishing the extension of sewer lines
is by petition of at least fifty (50) percent of all property owners who,
combined, own at least fifty (50) percent of the linear footage of the lands
abutting the proposed line extension. In the case of a successful petition
through the first method, the City will complete the project, and finance the
cost of such extensions through a one hundred (100) percent assessment of the
benefitted property owners. The second method of extension is through the
petition by a property owner to the City for the extension of one or more lines
to benefit their individual property. In the case of an extension by this
method, the petitioning property owner is responsible for the full cost of the
proposed line extension and associated costs. In the case of both service
connections and line extensions, additional tap fees and impact fees will apply
to each customer in accordance with the Citys adopted fee schedule.
5. In Section 5 of the report, the description of the proposed level of service
for the annexation area for sewer service on page 12 is hereby amended to
reflect the repeal of Section 19-137(3) of the Citys Water and Sewer Extension
Policy by amending the final sentence in the third paragraph under said
description to read:
Upon the effective date of the annexation, the City may begin considering
petitions for sewer line extensions into the annexation area in accordance with
the Citys water and sewer extension policy.
This the 2 nd day of June, 2011.      City of Southport
/s/ Robert D. Howard
Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
Clerk
Alderman Frink moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to adopt the Resolution
Amending Annexation Report for Area B. Vote Unanimous
RESOLUTION OF SOUTHPORT BOARD OF ALDERMEN AMENDING ANNEXATION REPORT
WHEREAS, after a full and thorough review and discussion regarding the report
of plans for extending services to the area being considered for annexation,
the Board of Aldermen did on March 24, 2011, approve the Annexation Report for
Area B; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to and in furtherance of said report and in accordance with
state law, the City did hold a public informational meeting on April 26, 2011,
and a public hearing on May 19, 2011, to hear comments and questions regarding
said report and the proposed annexation; and
WHEREAS, after careful consideration of all questions and comments received and
after further discussion and deliberation regarding said report, it now appears
to the Board of Aldermen that said report should be amended to reflect the
repeal of Section 19-137(3) of the City of Southport Code of Ordinances, which
has the effect of removing the Water and Sewer Extension Policy option of City
initiated water and sewer extensions;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT HEREBY RESOLVED that the Annexation Report for Area B
adopted on March 24, 2011, be and is hereby amended as follows:
1. In Section 5 of the report, the description of the current level of service
in the City for water service on page 10 is hereby amended to reflect the
repeal of Section 19-137(3) of the Citys Water and Sewer Extension Policy by
amending the third paragraph under said description to read:
All water service connections and water line extensions are governed by the
Citys adopted water supply and extension policies. All developed properties
inside of the City that are located adjacent to a water distribution line are
required to connect to the Citys water system within thirty (30) days of the
installation of the water line, in accordance with Section 19-5 of the Citys
Code of Ordinances. The Citys water extension policy provides two methods by
which water lines may be extended within the corporate limits. These two
methods are outlined in Section 19-137 of the City Code of Ordinances, and
explained briefly herein (for a full explanation, please refer to the City Code
of Ordinances). The first method for accomplishing the extension of water lines
is by petition of at least fifty (50) percent of all property owners who,
combined, own at least fifty (50) percent of the linear footage of the lands
abutting the proposed line extension. In the case of a successful petition
through the first method, the City will complete the project, and finance the
cost of such extensions through a one hundred (100) percent assessment of the
benefitted property owners. The second method of extension is through the
petition by a property owner to the City for the extension of one or more lines
to benefit their individual property. In the case of an extension by this
method, the petitioning property owner is responsible for the full cost of the
proposed line extension and associated costs. In the case of both service
connections and line extensions, additional tap fees and impact fees will apply
to each customer in accordance with the Citys adopted fee schedule.
2. In Section 5 of the report, the description of the proposed level of service
for the annexation area for water service on page 11 is hereby amended to
reflect the repeal of Section 19-137(3) of the Citys Water and Sewer Extension
Policy by amending the final sentence in the fourth paragraph under said
description to read:
Upon the effective date of the annexation, the City may begin considering
petitions for water line extensions into the annexation area in accordance with
the Citys water and sewer extension policy.
3. In Section 5 of the report, the description of the current level of service
in the City for sewer service on page 12 is hereby amended to reflect the
repeal of Section 19-137(3) of the Citys Water and Sewer Extension Policy by
amending the third paragraph under said description to read:
All sewer service connections and sewer line extensions are governed by the
Citys adopted sewer use and extension policies. All developed properties inside
of the City that are located adjacent to a sewer collection line are required
to connect to the Citys sewer system within thirty (30) days of the
installation of the sewer line, in accordance with Section 19-5 of the Citys
Code of Ordinances. The Citys sewer extension policy provides two methods by
which sewer lines may be extended within the corporate limits. These two
methods are outlined in Section 19-137 of the City Code of Ordinances, and
explained briefly herein (for a full explanation, please refer to the City Code
of Ordinances). The first method for accomplishing the extension of sewer lines
is by petition of at least fifty (50) percent of all property owners who,
combined, own at least fifty (50) percent of the linear footage of the lands
abutting the proposed line extension. In the case of a successful petition
through the first method, the City will complete the project, and finance the
cost of such extensions through a one hundred (100) percent assessment of the
benefitted property owners. The second method of extension is through the
petition by a property owner to the City for the extension of one or more lines
to benefit their individual property. In the case of an extension by this
method, the petitioning property owner is responsible for the full cost of the
proposed line extension and associated costs. In the case of both service
connections and line extensions, additional tap fees and impact fees will apply
to each customer in accordance with the Citys adopted fee schedule.
4. In Section 5 of the report, the description of the proposed level of service
for the annexation area for sewer service on page 13 is hereby amended to
reflect the repeal of Section 19-137(3) of the Citys Water and Sewer Extension
Policy by amending the final sentence in the third paragraph under said
description to read:
Upon the effective date of the annexation, the City may begin considering
petitions for sewer line extensions into the annexation area in accordance with
the Citys water and sewer extension policy.
This the 2 nd day of June, 2011.      City of Southport
s/s Robert D. Howard
Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
Clerk
Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Adams to approve an ordinance to
extend the corporate limits of the City of Southport in Annexation Area A.
Yea: Aldermen Poole, Adams, Frink
Nay: Aldermen Boguskie and Potter
Motion Passes 3-2
Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Frink to approve an ordinance to
extend the corporate limits of the City of Southport in Annexation Area B.
Yea: Alderman Poole, Adams, Frink
Nay: Aldermen Boguskie and Potter
Motion Passes 3-2
Mayor Howard announced that a majority of the Board, four (4), is required to
pass an annexation ordinance and in the absence of a majority, the issue will
be held in abeyance until the Boards regularly scheduled meeting on June 9.
IV.   Adjournment
Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Frink to adjourn the meeting at 6:38
p.m. Unanimous vote
                        ______________________________
_____________________________            Mayor
Clerk
JUNE 9, 2011
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN            REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
JUNE 9, 2011                 6:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS(CITY HALL) SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Ed Boguskie, Nelson Adams, Ken Karn,
         Mary Ellen Poole, Jwantana Frink, Vickie Potter
STAFF PRESENT:   Regina W. Alexander, Interim City Manager/MMC-City Clerk
         Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
         Michele Windham, Deputy Clerk
I.   Call to Order - 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
II.   Invocation
Alderman Potter welcomed citizens and pronounced the invocation.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Howard stated if any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.
III.   Approval of Minutes
Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to approve the May 2, 2011
workshop meeting minutes, vote unanimous.
Alderman Adams moved, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to approve the May 12, 2011
regular meeting minutes, vote unanimous.
Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Potter to approve the May 12, 2011
executive session meeting minutes, vote unanimous.
Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Frink to approve the May 19, 2011
Annexation Public Hearing meeting minutes, vote unanimous.
Alderman Frink moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to approve the May 25, 2011
Special meeting minutes, vote unanimous.
IV.   Approval of Agenda
Alderman Adams moved, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to approve the agenda as
amended, vote unanimous.
∙   Defer Item VIII (i) Consideration of an Agreement with Brunswick County to
collect City of Southport Taxes to the June 11 Budget Workshop.
V.   Public Comments
Mr. Adam Bingel, 1016 Bonner Bussells Drive, apologized to Manager Alexander
for disparaging comments he made about her. He spoke against the proposed
annexation.
Dr. Joe Pat Hatem, 7007 Robert Ruark Drive thanked the Board for their past
support of Dosher Memorial Hospital and encouraged them to consider favorably
the item on the agenda for the hospital.
Ms. Cathy Fravel, 311 Yaupon Drive, spoke in support of the Dosher Memorial
Hospital request.
Ms. June Barwig, 129 NE 73 rd Street, Oak Island, proposed a revision to the
Code of Ordinances, Article V. Taxicabs, Section 10-111, Definition of taxicab
and the passenger capacity limit of nine (9) to accommodate a larger passenger
van.
Mr. Jay Royal, 1320 N. Howe Street, spoke against the proposed annexation.
Mr. Michael Rice, 2012 Bonner Bussells Drive, offered an apology to the Mayor
and Alderman Boguskie for his actions at the May 19 Public Hearing. He
expressed his observations the Board had not had sufficient discussions and
deliberations on the annexation issue.
Mr. Ken Stewart, 603 Fodale Avenue and owner of Stewarts Hardware spoke against
the proposed annexation.
VI.   Committee Reports
a)   Transportation & Traffic
Alderman Boguskie reported the Risk Management Team addressed an unsafe traffic
area and occurrence at Dosher Memorial Hospital. The City Manager and City
Attorney issued a letter of recommendation to correct the issue. The Board
endorsed the recommendation.
Alderman Boguskie stated the City Attorney has received a request from attorney
James Prevatte representing Brunswick Community College that the City not open
Caswell Avenue to through traffic. Alderman Boguskie clarified the City has a
right-of-way for that portion of Caswell Avenue.
Alderman Boguskie announced a Public Hearing will be held by the North Carolina
Department of Transportation (NCDOT) on the proposed widening of NC 211 on June
28,
4:00- 6:30 p.m. at the St. James Community Building and the Transportation
Committee recommends requesting the widening of 211 to be on the south side of
the road due to the location of City sewer transmission lines on the north side
of the road. The Board endorsed the recommendation. The City Planner will be
attending the hearing.
Wastewater: At the request of Alderman Boguskie, Public Service Director, Ralph
Cardwell updated the Board on the status of the rehabilitation of the central
pump station; costs were within budget, pump is operational, there is a 10 year
warranty.
Alderman Boguskie reported the Tourism Committee has scheduled a meeting
Wednesday, June 15, 2:00 p.m. with Mr. Glen McVicker of Our State Magazine to
discuss the upcoming Southport article in the magazine and how merchants can
benefit.
Alderman Frink reported Downtown Southport Inc. (DSI) is withdrawing as the
Citys Main Street organization. She announced a Fort Johnston Committee meeting
will be held Wednesday, June 15, 12:00 p.m. in the Garrison.
Alderman Karn gave a report of the 4th of July Committee meeting and festival
preparations; permitting, restrooms to be closed at Garrison, and additional
locations for port-a-johns.
Alderman Karn reported the Electric Committee had no issues to report and would
be meeting soon.
Alderman Poole reported that Shop to the Beat has been well attended and has
received positive feed back from the merchants, the public and entertainers.
VII.   Departmental Reports
Reports placed in agenda packets
VIII.   New Business
a) Consideration of Annexation Ordinance for Areas A and B
Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to approve an ordinance under
authority granted NC General Statutes 160A to extend the corporate limits of
the City of Southport in Annexation Area A to be effective June 30, 2012.
Yea: Aldermen Karn, Poole, Frink, Adams
Nay: Aldermen Boguskie, Potter
Motion Passes: 4 - 2          (Ordinance Incorporated as Attachment #1)
Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Frink to approve an ordinance under
authority granted NC General Statutes 160A to extend the corporate limits of
the City of Southport in Annexation Area B to be effective June 30, 2012.
Yea: Aldermen Karn, Poole, Frink, Adams
Nay: Aldermen Boguskie, Potter
Motion Passes: 4 - 2         (Ordinance Incorporated as Attachment #2)
b) Presentation of a signed resolution from Dosher Memorial Hospital Board of
Trustees to provide financing for the upgrade of inpatient care rooms.
Mr. Edgar Haywood, Administrator, Dosher Memorial Hospital, spoke to the Board.
He expressed appreciation for the support the Board has provided and he
explained the hospitals request to return the hospital tax rate to .04 in order
to renovate patient rooms to current safety, accessibility and confidentiality
standards. Responding to a query from Alderman Frink, Mr. Haywood indicated
Brunswick County is receptive to the rate change if resolutions of support are
provided from the affected communities.
Dr. Robert Zukowski, surgeon and member of the Dosher Memorial Hospital Board
of Trustees, stated support has been received from the communities of Oak
Island, Caswell Beach, Bald Head Island and the Southport-Oak Island Chamber of
Commerce. He asked the Board to support the request.
The Board discussed the possibility of the County increasing the area of
Smithville Township, the impact the proposed rate change would have on people
on fixed incomes, and Dosher Memorial Hospital partnering with another
hospital.
Board Comments:
Alderman Poole recalled the anxiety of the community during the 1970's when a
hospital was built in Supply and it was thought Dosher Hospital would be turned
into a first aid clinic. She talked about the hospital working with people who
have no insurance, Southports aging population and the vision of the hospital
to retain qualified physicians.
Alderman Karn expressed support of the proposal, seeing it as a restoration of
a tax rate voters have approved.
Mayor Howard expressed support of the proposal noting Dosher Hospital adds
immeasurable value to Southport and helps attract residents and businesses.
Alderman Frink stated support for the proposal.
Alderman Adams expressed support of the hospital. He recommended further
consideration of the proposal and deferring action.
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to defer action on the
request until the June 11 Workshop.
Yea:   Aldermen Boguskie, Karn, Poole, Frink & Nelson
Nay:   Alderman Potter
Motion Passed 5 - 1
c) Consideration of an Interlocal Agreement for Emergency Animal Control
Services
Planning Director, Amy Nelson, asked for consideration of an agreement with
Brunswick County for back-up on an as needed basis for the Citys Animal Control
Officer. Alderman Karn noted the agreement calls for the City to adopt the
County Animal Control Ordinances. Attorney Mike Isenberg concurred that this
agreement would require adoption of most of the County Ordinance. Board agreed
to direct Ms. Nelson and City staff to determine which services were needed and
to discuss this with the County and to bring a new contract proposal.
d) Consideration of Application for Taxicab Franchise from A & E Cab Co.
Alderman Adams moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to approve the Application for
Taxicab Franchise for A&E Cab Co. for the period of one year, vote unanimous.
e) Consideration of Tax Releases
Alderman Frink moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to approve the tax releases as
recommended by staff, vote unanimous.
 
BILL #   NAME &        DATE      AMOUNT RELEASED      VALUE    REASON FOR
PARCEL # ACCOUNT #                                    RELEASED RELEASE
         Beers, Terry            76.61                         Wrong boat
#3345    A.            6/01/2011       4.38 Int. 42,560   billed - Did
         # 40140251    2010 Tax  80.99                         bill correct
                                                               boat
         Marshall-Zank 6/01/2011 2.44                          Did not own
#3367    James M       2010 Tax        . 15 Int. 190      this boat
         #10148716               2.59
 
f) Consideration of Budget Amendments 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12
Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Frink to approve Budget Amendments 8,
9, 10 11 & 12, vote unanimous.
Budget Amendment # 8
Fiscal Year 2010-2011
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session June 9, 2011, that the following Budget Amendment
be adopted to adjust line items within departments that were over or under
budget and for additional revenues received.
General Fund
    Budget Budget As
    Amendment Amended
Section I
A.   Revenues Anticipated
Insurance Reimbursements for Rescue    8,300
Parks & Recreation Revenue          5,500
Refuse Collections             12,000
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
See Attached                      4,161,335
ADOPTED this the 9 th day of June, 2011
/s/ Robert D. Howard
Mayor
Attest: /s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
   Clerk
Budget Amendment # 9
Fiscal Year 2010-2011
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session June 9, 2011, that the following Budget Amendment
be adopted to adjust departmental line items that were over or under budget.
Electric Fund
    Budget Budget As
    Amendment Amended
Section IV
A.   Revenues Anticipated
Sale of Electricity         $414,000
B. Appropriated Expenditures   
See Attached                  7,195,900
ADOPTED this the 9 th day of June, 2011
/s/ Robert D. Howard
Mayor
Attest:  /s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
   Clerk
Budget Amendment # 10
Fiscal Year 2010-2011
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session June 9, 2011, that the following Budget Amendment
be adopted to adjust departmental line items that were over or under budget, to
appropriate additional revenue and to appropriate fund balance for capital
improvement to rehabilitate the central pump station as approved by Board on
March 10, 2011 during regular session.
Water Sewer Fund
    Budget Budget As
    Amendment Amended
Section V
A.   Revenue Anticipated
Sewer Impact Fees         40,000
Appropriate Fund Balance      90,000
B. Appropriated Expenditures
See Attached               2,665,900
ADOPTED this the 9 h day of June, 2011
/s/ Robert D. Howard
Mayor
Attest:  /s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
   Clerk
Budget Amendment #11
Fiscal Year 2010-2011
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled special session June 9, 2011, that the following Budget Amendment be
adopted for moving funds within the Fire Station Capital Project Budget. There
will be no change in the overall budget.
Fire Station Capital Project Fund
    Budget Budget As
    Amendment Amended
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
Professional Fees         (29,333.65)
Construction             .29
Equipment & Furnishings       29,333.36
ADOPTED this the 9 th day of June, 2011
/s/ Robert D. Howard
Mayor
Attest: /s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
   Clerk
*****There is currently $193,000 remaining in this fund******
Budget Amendment #12
Fiscal Year 2010-2011
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled special session June 9, 2011, that the following Budget Amendment be
adopted to appropriate fund balance for capital equipment for an air compressor
and for sidewalk repair bid that was approved by the Board on April 14, 2011
during regular session.
Powell Bill
    Budget Budget As
    Amendment Amended
Section II
A.    Revenues Anticipated
Fund Balance Appropriated       28,587
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
Street Repair/Supplies       2,000
Storm Drainage Expense       (5,000)
Sidewalk Repairs          18,087
Capital Purchase          13,500
ADOPTED this the 9 th day of June, 2011
/s/ Robert D. Howard
Mayor
Attest: /s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
   Clerk
g) Consideration of a Resolution Establishing Fund Balance Policies as Required
by Governmental Accounting Standards Board 54
Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to adopt a Resolution
Establishing Fund Balance Policies as required by GASB 54, vote unanimous.
A Resolution Establishing Fund Balance Policies as requried by GASB 54
WHEREAS, the Governmental Accounting Standards Board (GASB) has
adopted Statement 54 (GASB 54"), a new standard for governmental fund balance
reporting and governmental fund type definitions that becomes effective for the
fiscal year ending June 30, 2011; and
WHEREAS, the City desires to be in compliance with BASB Statement 54;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the City of Southprot hereby adopts the
following policy:
FUND BALANCE POLICY
Fund balance measures the net financial resources availble to finance
expenditures of future periods. To maintain the Citys credit rating, meet
seasonal cash shortfalls, economic downturns f a local disaster, the City shall
maintain and present fund balance for the general fund in accordance with the
requirements of GASB 54.
The Board of Aldermen shall take formal action to commit the use of fund
balance for projects or purposes in any current year or future years budget.
Where an expenditure is incurred for which restricted and unrestricted fund
balance is available, the restricted fund balance, to the extent feasible,
should be used first.
When expenditure is incurred for which there is an unrestricted fund balance
available, funds should be spent in the following order: committed, assigned
and unassigned.
a.   Committed fund balances are amounts that can be used only for the specific
purposes determined by a changed or lifted only by the government taking the
same formal action that imposed the constraint originally.
b.   Assigned fund balances are amounts intended to be used by the government
for specific purposes and so expressed by the governing body or by an official
or body to which the governing body delegates the authority.
c.   Unassigned fund balance is the residual classification of the general fund
that includes all amounts not contained in other fund balance classifications.
Unassigned amounts are technically available for any purpose.
The Citys revenue spending policy for programs with multiple revenue services
shall be in the following hierarchy: bond proceeds, federal funds, State funds,
local non-City funds, City funds.
The Finance/Budget Officer has the authority to deviate from this policy if it
is in the best interest of the City.
The above resolution is adopted this 9th day of June, 2011.
The City of Southport
Attest:                     /s/ Robert D. Howard
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC       Mayor
Clerk
h) Consideration of Audit Contract with Berry, Padgett & Chandler, PLLC to
Audit City books for July 1, 2010 - June 30, 2011
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to enter into an Audit
Contract with Berry, Padgett & Chandler, PLLC with an audit report due date of
September 30, 2011.  Unanimous vote.
i) Consideration of an Agreement with Brunswick County to collect City of
Southport taxes
Item deferred to June 11 Budget Workshop.
j) Consideration of a request to co-sponsor a Senior Resource Fair sponsored by
Feet First Initiative on October 15, 2011 at the Brunswick Center
Alderman Adams moved, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to support staff
recommendation to co-sponsor the Senior Resource Fair. Unanimous vote.
IX.   Other Business
   Alderman Karn opened consideration of a request for guidance by the City
Planner relating to sign enforcement. Mrs. Nelson explained off-premises signs
are illegal according to the current ordinance and there are several violations
on Howe Street, a State road within the Citys enforcement jurisdiction. She
stated she had ordered the signs removed but due to the sensitivity of the
signs issue, she felt it beneficial to ask for the Boards opinion. Board
consensus was for City staff to enforce the ordinance in effect.
   Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to adopt the Resolution
Requesting Notice From Representatives Regarding Legislative Action. Unanimous
vote.
RESOLUTION REQUESTING NOTICE FROM REPRESENTATIVES REGARDING LEGISLATIVE ACTION
   THAT WHEREAS, the legislation being introduced during the 2011 Sesion of the
North Carolina General Assembly is extensive; and
   WHEREAS, it is difficult for the staff and elected officials from
municipalities, including the City of Southport, to insure that it is aware of
all of the proposed legislation and bills which may affect cities, their
citizens and residents; and
   WHEREAS, our representatives are beset suited to be cognizant of and
knowledgeable regarding proposed bills and legislation which affect the City of
Southport; and
   WHEREAS, in order to promote the best interests of the City, its citizens
and residents, the Board of Aldermen would like to receive notice of any
proposed legislation which might affect the welfare of the City, its residents
and citizens;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport hereby requests Representative Frank Iler and Senator William P.
Rabon to promptly notify the City of Southport when they become aware of any
bill or legislation which might affect the City of Southport, and
   BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that, in the event that any proposed legislation
directly affects the city, its citizens and residents, that Representative Iler
and Senator Rabon make arrangements for representatives from the City to be
heard at committee hearings and public hearings held by the General Assembly at
the appropriate time.
Adopted this 9 th day of June, 2011
   City of Southport
ATTEST:               /s/ Robert D. Howard
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC                Mayor
Clerk
X.   City Managers Comments
Manager Alexander reported the proposed 2011-2012 budget will be on display at
City Hall and the Harper Library.
XI.   Board Comments
There were no Board comments
XII.   Adjournment
Alderman Adams moved, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to adjourn the meeting at
8:15 p.m. Unanimous vote.
      _________________________________
          Mayor
_________________________________
Clerk
JUNE 11, 2011
BUDGET WORKSHOP MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN             BUDGET WORKSHOP MINUTES
JUNE 11, 2011                 8:00 A.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS (CITY HALL) SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Ed Boguskie, Nelson Adams, Ken Karn
         Vickie Potter, Mary Ellen Poole, Jwantana Frink
STAFF PRESENT:   Regina W. Alexander, Interim City Manager/MMC-City Clerk
         Michele Windham, Deputy Clerk
         Neal Sage, Chief VRS
         Heather Hemphill, Director Parks & Recreation
         Jerry Dove, Police Chief
         Greg Cumbee, Fire Chief
I.   Call to Order - 8:00 a.m.
Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 8:00 a.m.
II.   Invocation
Alderman Potter welcomed citizens and pronounced the invocation.
III.   Public Comment
Mayor Howard recognized Mr. Robert Creech, 426 W. Brunswick Street. Mr. Creech
spoke about budget item 10-3840-0100, Boat Slip Rentals at the Yacht Basin. He
talked about the proposed increase in the rental rates, the repairs that have
been performed by renters and volunteers, the revenue realized by the City with
little investment. Mr. Creech spoke about the many activities that take place
on the City pier, that the slips can only be used during high tide and that
there are only three (3) parking spaces for 30 renters. He pointed out that if
the rental rates are increased, an improvement in the facility would be
expected. He encouraged the Board to leave the rates at the current level.
IV.    Budget Review
Mayor Howard recognized Heather Hemphill, Director of Parks & Recreation. Mrs.
Hemphill explained the transfer of a grounds position to her staff from the
Public Services Department and the associated increase in her budget. In
response to Alderman Boguskie, Mrs. Hemphill discussed preparing design plans
for Stevens Park, applying for grants, potential for the program to grow if
more ball fields are available and a projected cost of 1.5 million to build
three tournament fields. The athletic programs were discussed.
Manager Alexander explained that money was put in the Parks & Recreation budget
for an arborist to look at Southport trees as many have problems.
Alderman Karn suggested planning for vehicle replacement for the Parks &
Recreation Department.
There was discussion of the Ft. Johnston Supplies budget line item in relation
to the Maritime Museum utilizing the restrooms until completion of phase two of
the museum renovations. Board consensus was for the City Manager and Parks &
Recreation Director to meet with museum personnel to discuss the museum making
provisions to help supply the restrooms.
........................................
Mayor Howard recognized Rescue Chief Neal Sage. Chief Sage discussed the $5,295
request for purchase of Viper radio equipment needed to assure communication
between the rescue squad units. He explained that initially the County was
going to provide the radios. Chief Sage updated the Board on a grant
application process, fund-raising, disbanding of the Southport Auxiliary and
formation of the Friends of Southport Rescue, and partnership with the
Southport Rotary Fruit Sale in the Fall. Chief Sage talked about the status of
the Suburban vehicle replacement, anticipated cost $130,000 which could be
budgeted over a 5 year period. Mayor Howard suggested the Rescue Squad consider
forming a 501C(3) Corporation.
The Board discussed the City Spatial Analysis Master Plan in relation to the
Rescue Squad facility. There was discussion about the operations of the squad,
out of area response procedures and the chain of command.
.......................................
Mayor Howard recognized Fire Chief Greg Cumbee. Chief Cumbee explained that
Southport has the worst radio coverage of the entire County and monies are
needed for the Viper Radio System, grants have been applied for and he feels
confident a grant will be awarded. Chief Cumbee talked about the capital outlay
request on the fire vehicles stating all trucks are paid for, remains in
service for 25 years and then have to be replaced. He stated the existing
ladder truck is 25 years old and due for replacement. In response to Alderman
Karn, Chief Cumbee explained the budget line items for replacement of turnout
gear and self contained breathing apparatus (SCBA), training and incentives for
firefighters. There was discussion about the departmental supplies and keeping
the fire station clean.
.......................................
The Board discussed donations and lease rates for City buildings.
Mayor Howard voiced concerns to the proposed General Fund 11.1% overall
increase.
Manager Alexander pointed out the health care costs increase with a reduction
in coverage.
The Board discussed the boat slip rental rates at the Yacht Basin; the current
policy, increasing the fee, rate discount for citizens, no sub-leasing, repairs
needed, and liability issues. Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman
Boguskie to defer any consideration of the city dock, revenues and expenditures
to a later date. Unanimous vote. City staff was directed to make the policy and
leases available to Board members.
It was brought to the Boards attention via a memorandum from the Finance
Director to the City Manager that the audit contract terms with Berry, Padgett
& Chandler, PLLC required revision. The completion date of September 30, agreed
upon by the Board, was an unrealistic date for the auditors. The completion
date of October 31 was agreed upon by the Board with consensus a special
meeting for review of the audit would be held if the audit came in prior to the
October 31 date. It was recommended the auditors be invited to the January,
2012 Board Retreat.
Mayor Howard asked staff to re-examine the general fund 11.1% increase and
report back with any recommendations for reducing the increase. Manager
Alexander requested direction.
V.   Presentation of signed resolution from Dosher Hospital Board of Trustees
to provide financing for the upgrade of inpatient care rooms.
Board members continued discussion of the request as presented during the June
9 regular Board meeting. Board consensus was support of the tax rate request
and to request the Brunswick County Commissioners expand the boundaries of
Smithville Township.
Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Frink to adopt a resolution to
endorse additional funding for capital expenditure to improve the patient rooms
at Dosher Memorial Hospital and a request to County Commissioners to expand the
boundaries of Smithville Township. Unanimous vote.
Resolution of Support for Dosher Hospital Tax Rate Request
Whereas, in a widely publicized election conducted in May, 2000, the Smithville
Township voters approved a tax for the exclusive benefit of Dosher Hospital of
4 cents per $100 valuation through tax year 2031; and
Whereas, in 2007, Dosher Hospital entered into an agreement with Brunswick
County to voluntarily reduce the approved 4 cent tax rate to 2.25 cents to
provide tax relief associated with the extraordinary increase in Smithville
Township property values documented by the 2006 property revaluation; and
Whereas, the 2010 revaluation resulted in dramatic reductions to Smithville
Township property values; and
Whereas, the 2007 agreement calls for budget neutral adjustments to the tax
rate to coincide with each additional revaluation; and
Whereas, the estimated budget neutral adjustment required by the 2010 valuation
is approximately .75 cents; and
Whereas, the 2007 agreement further allows Dosher Hospital to request
additional tax funding for specific capital improvements, provided the funding
does not require a tax rate exceeding the 4 cent per $100 rate authorized by
the Smithville Township voters; and
Whereas, the Brunswick County Board of Commissioners promised in the 2007
agreement to seriously consider such a request; and
Whereas, Dosher Hospitals inpatient rooms were constructed in the late 1970s
and do not meet current handicap accessibility, fire safety, patient privacy,
and security requirements; and
Whereas, amortization of the estimated cost to renovate Dosher Hospitals
inpatient care wing requires an approximate 1 cent increase to the Dosher tax
rate;
Now, Therefore, Be It Resolved that the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport does hereby support Dosher Memorial Hospital in its request to the
Brunswick County Board of Commissioners that the Dosher Hospital tax rate be
set at 4 cents per $100 valuation beginning in the 2011-2012 tax year.
This the 11th day of June, 2011.
City of Southport
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard
Attest:  /s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC       Mayor
   Clerk
RESOLUTION REQUESTING THE BRUNSWICK COUNTY COMMISSIONERS TO EXPAND THE
BOUNDARIES OF SMITHVILLE TOWNSHIP
THAT WHEREAS, Smithville Townships Dosher Memorial Hospital is a true community
hospital serving the citizens and residents of Smithville Township including
the citizens and residents of Caswell Beach, Oak Island, Southport, Bald Head
Island and the Players Club area of St. James ; and
WHEREAS, Dosher Hospital is supported by an additional ad valorem tax on the
citizens and property owners within Smithville Township; and
WHEREAS, the hospital has long been an asset to not only the residents in
Smithville Township, but also those who live in the other areas of the Town of
St. James and in the City of Boiling Spring Lakes, which lie outside the
Townships boundaries; and
WHEREAS, the municipalities in the Township were recently asked for their
support of the Hospitals request to resume a 4-cent per $100 of assessed value
tax rate, the maximum allowed, in order to pursue needed improvements to better
serve the community; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport has endorsed the
Hospitals request, recognizing Doshers importance to the community; and
WHEREAS, Dosher Hospital also serves and provides critical medical care to the
citizens and residents of the remainder of St. James and the City of Boiling
Spring Lakes and surrounding areas; and
WHEREAS, amending the boundaries of Smithville Township to include the
remainder of St. James and the City of Boiling Spring Lakes can only enhance
operations of our community hospital; and
WHEREAS, including those areas within the Township will bring equity among the
base of local users of the Hospital;
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport hereby requests that the Brunswick County Commissioners expand
Smithville Township to include the entire Town of St. James and the City of
Boiling Spring Lakes and intervening areas within its borders.
Adopted this the 11th of June, 2011.
City of Southport
/s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
Clerk
VI.   Consideration of an Agreement with Brunswick County to collect City of
Southport taxes.
Manager Alexander reported the current City Tax Collector will be retiring July
31, the City is required to have a designated tax collector, and the County has
been approached to bill and collect Southport property taxes for $12,000
annually. Manager Alexander explained the Finance Department will be two
positions short with the retirement of the Tax Collector and part-time help is
brought in on the 15 th and 25 th of each month to post payments, the County
would not collect delinquent taxes, set up payment arrangements and it would be
the responsibility of the City to verify the tax billing information. The Citys
tax collection rate is 92%. Manager Alexander recommended continuing in house
collection of property taxes and to fill the Tax Collector position when it
becomes vacant.
Alderman Poole motioned, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to authorize the City
Manager to enter into a contract with Brunswick County to bill and collect
property taxes, to name a City Tax Collector at the time of retirement by Ms.
Russ and to consolidate two positions in the Finance Department into one
customer service administrative position.
Ayes:   Aldermen Poole, Karn, Frink, Potter, Boguskie
Nay:   Alderman Nelson
Motion Passed 5-1
STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA
COUNTY OF BRUNSWICK
AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered into this 11 day of June 2011  by and between
the County of Brunswick, a body corporate and politic with its county seat
located in Bolivia, North Carolina, Party of the First Part, hereinafter
referred to as County and  Southport, NC , a body and corporate and politic
situation in Brunswick County, North Carolina, Party of the Second Part
hereinafter referred to as Town.
WITNESSETH
WHEREAS Brunswick County Citizens will enjoy improved customer service from a
single source for billing, information and paying property taxes; and,
WHEREAS Town has requested that County bill and collect the ad valorem taxes of
Town; and,
WHEREAS, County has agreed to bill and collect the ad valorem taxes of Town as
hereinafter set forth;
NOW, THEREFORE in consideration of the mutual covenants contained herein, the
parties hereto agree as follows:
1.   County shall bill and collect the ad valorem taxes due the Town for the
tax year 2011 in conformity with Chapter 105 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina.
2.   County shall deduct from all sums collected by it, whether in the form of
full or partial payment, three-quarters of one percent (0.75%) thereof as a
collection fee.
3.   County shall remit to Town all remaining sums collected by County on Towns
behalf on a monthly basis. In the event a taxpayer makes a payment direct to
Town, it must be immediately forwarded to County for proper posting of the
taxpayers account.
4.   County shall not undertake foreclosure proceedings independently on Towns
behalf, and all such foreclosure actions shall be undertaken in conformity with
Countys policies regarding the same as adopted from time to time by the
Brunswick County Board of Commissioners.
5.   Town shall provide County with its tax rate, building permits, zoning
changes, and all other information and/or documentation required to fulfill the
provisions of this Agreement, in a timely manner.
6.   Town will be responsible for the collection of all delinquent taxes for
tax years prior to the starting tax year stated in 1 above.
7.   Town will provide staff resource(s), and may maintain a position with the
title of Tax Collector, to assist with delinquent tax collections after January
5 th each year (statutory delinquent date). The amount of time and effort
expended will be directly proportionate to the desired % collection goals set
by the Town. The Town will be responsible for the provision of office space,
telephone, long distance calling access, and access to a computer, for the
resource(s) assisting with delinquent collections.
8.   County shall provide all normal hard costs of collection, including bill
and notice printing, postage, advertising, delinquent remedy enforcement, and
software maintenance. County will also provide reasonable training and
assistance to the Town delinquent resource(s).
9.   Town may undertake annexations according to statutes. The County will
collect first year city taxes on all annexations that are effective on July 1
st . The Town will bill and collect the first years prorated taxes for all
taxpayers in annexation areas when the annexation is not effective on July 1 st
.
10.   This agreement shall be valid for a period of one (1) year from the date
hereof, but shall be automatically renewed thereafter for a period of one year
until this Agreement is rescinded by resolution adopted by either the Brunswick
County Board of Commissioners or the governing board of Town. Any such
termination will be effective as of June 30 th of the fiscal tax year in
effect, but notification of such resolution must be delivered by May 31 st of
the final year.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have caused this instrument to be signed
by their proper governmental officials pursuant to formal action of their
governing boards and properly attested as by law provided.
COUNTY OF BRUNSWICK
/s/ William Sue
Brunswick County Board of Commissioners
ATTEST:
/s/ Debby Gore
Clerk to the Board
TOWN OF SOUTHPORT, NC
                  /s/ Robert D. Howard
ATTEST:               Mayor
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Interim City Manager/Clerk to the Board
Discussion:
In answer to Alderman Potter, Mayor Howard explained the potential for cost
savings.
Board members agreed the City needs to continue providing citizens with the
level of customer service they have become accustomed to.
Manager Alexander responded to Alderman Potter that the contract would be for
one year with yearly renewal options.
VII.   Board Appointments
Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Potter to appoint Ms. Emily
Humphreys to the Board of Adjustment to complete the term previously held by
Mr. Jeff Ward. Unanimous vote.
It was noted there are two vacancies on the Board of Adjustment. The City
Manager was instructed to contact the League of Municipalities for a
determination if staff or board members can also serve on the Board of
Adjustment.
A continuation of budget review was scheduled for Tuesday, June 14, 6:00 p.m.
VIII.   Adjournment
Alderman Poole motioned, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to adjourn the meeting
at 11:45 a.m. Unanimous Vote
______________________________
Mayor
____________________________
Clerk
JUNE 14, 2011
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN             BUDGET WORKSHOP MINUTES
JUNE 14, 2011                 6:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS (CITY HALL) SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
BUDGET WORKSHOP MINUTES
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Ed Boguskie, Nelson Adams, Ken Karn
         Vickie Potter, Mary Ellen Poole, Jwantana Frink
STAFF PRESENT:   Regina W. Alexander, Interim City Manager/MMC-City Clerk
         Michele Windham, Deputy Clerk
         Neal Sage, Chief VRS
I.   Call to Order - 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:18 p.m.
II.   Invocation
Alderman Potter welcomed citizens and pronounced the invocation.
III.   Budget Review
The Board discussed the policies, revenues and expenditures of the boat slip
rentals and per Board consensus, Aldermen Poole and Boguskie were tasked with
submitting a recommendation of individuals to form a committee at the next
regular meeting.
The Board agreed to reduce the Donation line item from $10,500 to $9,500.
Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to adopt the budget as
presented by staff with the exception of eliminating a vacant position in
Administration, reducing the boat slip fees to $60 a month, increasing revenue
on the Community Building to $120,000 and contract with Brunswick County to
perform billing and collection of property taxes.
Yea: Aldermen Karn, Boguskie, Poole, Frink, Adams
Nay: Alderman Potter
Motion passed 5-1
Manager Alexander presented to the Board a request for consideration to
authorize Chief Sage to replace a 1999 rescue vehicle with funding spaced over
a 5 year period beginning with the 2012-2013 FY budget.
Discussion:
In response to Aldermen Karn and Frink, Chief Sage explained it is uncertain
the current vehicle can be repaired or enough money raised to replace it.
Alderman Adams pointed out the 2012 - 2013 budget would be considered by a
potentially different Board and he would not obligate them to the expenditure.
He expressed he would not support a new vehicle.
Chief Sage and Alderman Boguskie discussed the time saved by squad members
being in a rescue unit while out of the station vs. returning to the station.
Alderman Potter moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to authorize the Rescue Squad
to start the bidding process for replacement of the 1999 Chevy Suburban in the
amount of approximately $130,000 to be funded over 5 years beginning in FY
Budget 2012-2013.
Yea:   Aldermen Potter, Karn, Boguskie
Nay:   Aldermen Poole, Adams, Frink
Mayor Howard
Motion Failed 4-3
VII.   Adjournment
Alderman Boguskie motioned, seconded by Alderman Karn to adjourn the meeting at
7:35 p.m. Unanimous vote
__________________________________
Mayor
________________________________
Clerk
JUNE 16, 2011
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN             BUDGET PUBLIC HEARING MINUTES
JUNE 16, 2011                 6:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS (CITY HALL) SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
BUDGET PUBLIC HEARING MINUTES
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Ed Boguskie, Nelson Adams, Ken Karn
         Vickie Potter, Mary Ellen Poole, Jwantana Frink
STAFF PRESENT:   Regina W. Alexander, Interim City Manager/MMC-City Clerk
         Michele Windham, Deputy Clerk
I.   Call to Order - 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:17 p.m.
II.   Invocation
Alderman Potter welcomed citizens and pronounced the invocation.
III.   Public Hearing
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Potter to open the Public
Hearing. Unanimous vote.
Mayor Howard recognized Mr. Rick Johnstone,110 Willis Drive, who spoke about
his 45 years in Southport, the difficult economic times, and living on a fixed
income. He encouraged the Board to keep the less fortunate Southport citizens
in mind when considering the budget.
Alderman Adams moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to close the Public Hearing.
Unanimous Vote.
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to adopt the budget
ordinance as presented for FY 2011-2012. Unanimous vote
VII.   Adjournment
Alderman Poole motioned, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to adjourn the meeting
at 6:25 p.m. Unanimous vote
________________________________
Mayor
_________________________________
Clerk
JULY 14, 2011
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN             REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
JULY 14, 2011                 6:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS (CITY HALL) SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Ed Boguskie, Nelson Adams, Ken Karn,
         Mary Ellen Poole, Jwantana Frink, Vickie Potter
STAFF PRESENT:   Regina W. Alexander, Interim City Manager/MMC-City Clerk
         Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
         Michele Windham, Deputy Clerk
         Amy Nelson, Planning Director
         Ralph Cardwell, Public Service Director
         Patty Miller, Finance Director
I.   Call to Order - 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
II.   Invocation
Alderman Poole welcomed citizens and pronounced the invocation.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Howard stated if any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.
Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to adopt the Resolution in
Appreciation for the Lions International and Wildwood Landscaping. Unanimous
vote.
RESOLUTION
IN APPRECIATION
WHEREAS, the Lions International is one of the worlds largest service clubs;
and
WHEREAS, the Lions are identified with their efforts on behalf of the blind,
community service activities and special projects for the benefit of the entire
community; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen gratefully acknowledge the contributions that
the members have contributed in leadership, personal service and monetary
assistance to the City of Southport; and
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Mayor and Board of Aldermen extends
sincere appreciation to the Lions Club of Southport and Wildwood Landscaping
for the contributions made by improving the City of Southport gateway sign
located near Highway 211 and landscaping the grounds.
ADOPTED, this the 14 th day of July 2011.
/s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to adopt the Resolution of
Appreciation for the 4 th of July Festival. Unanimous vote.
RESOLUTION
OF APPRECIATION
WHEREAS, for over 200 years the City of Southport has celebrated our nations
independence, and
WHEREAS, the North Carolina 4 th of July Festival was incorporated in 1972 and
the patriotic spirit is alive and well, and has established the City of
Southport as one of the most patriotic towns in the State of North Carolina;
and
WHEREAS, the 4 th of July festival draws an estimated 40,000 to 50,000 people
to Southport and its surrounding communities; and
WHEREAS, the festival highlights over 150 arts and craft vendors, food vendors,
a parade, freedom run, veterans recognition, naturalization ceremony, children
games, firefighters competition, flag retirement ceremony, fireworks and more;
and
WHEREAS, the 911 Flag as the parade marshal was a poignant and patriotic moment
for everyone in attendance; and
WHEREAS, the N.C. 4 th of July festival could not be realized without the
Festival Board of Directors, committees and hundreds of volunteers that work
year round to promote and organize this event.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the City of Southport recognizes and thanks
each and every individual who tirelessly gave of their time and energy to put
on one of the best 4 th of July Festival ever.
ADOPTED, this the 14 th day of July 2011.
/s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
III.   Approval of Minutes
Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to approve seven sets of
minutes. Unanimous vote.
∙   May 26, 2011 budget workshop minutes
∙   May 26, 2011 executive session meeting minutes
∙   June 2, 2011 special meeting minutes
∙   June 9, 2011 regular session meeting minutes
∙   June 11, 2011 budget workshop minutes
∙   June 14, 2011 budget workshop minutes
∙   June 16, 2011 budget public hearing minutes
IV.   Approval of Agenda
Alderman Karn requested addition of a Closed Session to confer with the City
Attorney.
Alderman Potter asked for addition of Item VI (h) Planning Report and Item VI
(i) Parks and Recreation Committee Report.
Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to approve the agenda as
amended. Unanimous vote.
V.   Public Comments
Neal Sage, Rescue Squad Chief, thanked the many individuals and agencies that
assisted with the rescue and recovery efforts of a drowning incident on the
waterfront.
Mr. Ken Stewart, 603 Fodale Avenue and owner of Stewarts Hardware spoke against
the annexation.
Baiju Vadgamma, proprietor of the Wingate Inn, 1511 N. Howe Street, spoke about
her desire to have an off-premise sign for better visibility of her business.
Mr. Michael Rice, 2012 Bonner Bussells Drive, stated his opinion the Board is
hiding behind the attorney client privilege to discuss the annexation and the
Board should not hold a closed session.
VI.   Committee Reports
a)   Transportation & Traffic
Alderman Boguskie and Planning Director, Amy Nelson, reported that Brunswick
Community College was provided with information regarding the stormwater
improvements, traffic devices and parking planned for the opening of N. Caswell
Avenue to 8 th Street. Alderman Boguskie met with the college for a review of
the property and maps. Jim Prevatte, attorney for the college is in the process
of searching the property records. Manager Alexander reported she had contacted
Linda Stanley of the College Board of Trustees to determine what exactly is
being searched for. Attorney Isenberg stated his conversations with attorney
Prevatte have been optimistic.
Alderman Boguskie reported a parking area along the right-of-way of Fodale
Avenue behind Dosher Memorial Hospital Emergency Room has been blocked off per
directive of the Citys insurer following an accident. The committee has
recommended no parking signs be installed until the blacktop can be removed and
grass planted. There was discussion of closing the right-of-way. No action was
taken.
b)   Wastewater
Alderman Boguskie reported meeting with Jason Glazener, Corps of Engineers, on
the erosion protection project for the Bay Street pump station. It has been
found that the erosion rate is 4 foot per year and will be undermined in 4-
5 years. The projected cost, 2.5 million, to save the pump station is a 65/35
split; Army Corps of Engineers 65%, City 35% ($500,000). It is anticipated the
study will be completed by November.
Alderman Boguskie explained the Sewer Transmission Facilities Agreement with
Brunswick County:
- The Service areas agreed to in the Memorandum of Understanding between the
City and County dated November 17, 2008 shall remain in force.
- The County will construct a sewer force main through the Citys service area
and connect to the city-owned Rivermist Pump Station and the city-owned 16"
transmission force main along Highway 211.
- The County shall allow the City to make one pump station connection to the
Countys proposed force main within the Citys service area.
- The City agrees to lease to the County, for $1/yr, for the term of the lease,
its rights, title, and interest to the Rivermist Pump Station, Sandy Lane Pump
Station, all transmission Force Main downstream of the Sandy Lane Pump Station.
- The County guarantees sewer capacity up to 500,000 gallons per day.
- The City agrees to grant the County unrestricted access and use of easements,
lands, interests, and rights in lands required for the operation and
maintenance.
- The County shall operate and maintain the transmission facilities.
- Additional sewer connections, additional wastewater flow and modifications
shall be made by the County.
- Agreement may be terminated or modified at any time by written consent of
both parties.
Mr. Ralph Cardwell, Public Service Director, agreed with the recommendation to
accept the agreement. Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to
accept the Sewer Transmission Facilities Agreement with Brunswick County.
Unanimous vote.
c)   Tourism:
Alderman Boguskie reported a writer and photographer of Our State Magazine
spent two days in Southport meeting with residents and merchants in preparation
of the upcoming Southport article in the October issue of the magazine. Mr.
Boguskie thanked the many individuals and businesses who provided services and
accommodations.
d)   Fort Johnston
Alderman Frink reported the Fort Johnston Committee had met and discussed
continued program participation by Downtown Southport, Inc., bookings, event
coordinating, mold issue in the Garrison House and a policy for use of the
Garrison House Lawn that is included as an agenda item. Alderman Frink
recommended a Ft. Johnston workshop be held by the Board.
e)   4th of July
Alderman Karn reported having a Board liaison on the 4 th of July Committee
worked well. He requested any issues or concerns observed during the festival
be forwarded to him. Alderman Poole stated she had received many favorable
comments from the committee regarding Mr. Karns participation and she
recommended keeping Mr. Karn as committee liaison. The Board agreed.
f)   Electric
Alderman Karn reported the agenda included an item from the Electric Committee.
g)   Shop to the Beat
Alderman Poole reported that Shop to the Beat continues to be a success, is
well attended, merchants have reported it has helped their businesses and a
wide variety of entertainers have volunteered.
h)   Planning
Alderman Potter asked for the moratorium on amendments to the Unified
Development Ordinance (UDO) be lifted. She explained a text amendment to allow
boat slips to count towards required off-street parking is proposed. Alderman
Potter moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to lift the moratorium on amendments to
the Unified Development Ordinance. Unanimous vote.
Alderman Potter requested the Planning Board review the Sign Article of the UDO
and adapt it to address issues of concern, i.e. off-premises signs, right-of-
way signs, vehicle signs, enforcement. Alderman Potter moved, seconded by
Alderman Karn for the Planning Board to review the sign ordinance and report
back to the Board of Aldermen within 60 days, with an option to request an
extension if needed. Unanimous vote.
i)   Parks and Recreation
Alderman Potter reported a large anchor had been donated to the City. She
suggested it be placed at the Whittlers Bench on a platform with a plaque. The
materials for placement of the anchor would be donated and there would be no
cost to the City. No opposition to the proposal were voiced.
Alderman Potter explained the Parks and Recreation Department would like to
have an Adopt-A-Hydrant program allowing people, organizations, churches and
businesses to adopt a fire hydrant for $200 a year with proceeds allocated to
park maintenance and improvements. Alderman Potter reported that Fire Chief
Cumbee supports the proposal. Alderman Potter to provide guidelines of the
agreement.
VII.   Departmental Reports
Reports placed in agenda packets
VIII.   New Business
Closed Session - 7:11 p.m.
Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to go into Closed Session
pursuant to G.S. 143-318.11 (a)(3) to consult with the City Attorney regarding
legal issues relative to the new annexation law. Unanimous vote.
Regular Session Reconvened - 7:47 p.m.
Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to re-enter regular session.
Unanimous vote.
a) Annexation Discussion
Attorney Isenberg read into the record:
ORDINANCE REPEALING ANNEXATION ORDINANCE OF June 9, 2011
WHEREAS, on June 9, 2011, the Board of Aldermen adopted an annexation ordinance
under the authority of Chapter 160A Article 4A Part 2 of the North Carolina
General Statutes; and
WHEREAS, said ordinance provided that it would not become effective until June
30, 2012; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen has now concluded that it is in the best
interest of the City of Southport to repeal said ordinance before its effective
date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport that the ordinance entitled AN ORDINANCE TO EXTEND THE CORPORATE
LIMITS OF THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT UNDER THE AUTHORITY GRANTED BY CHAPTER 160A
ARTICLE 4A PART 2 OF THE NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES for the area known as
Annexation Area A dated June 9, 2011 is hereby repealed in its entirety.
Adopted this 14 th day of July, 2011
City of Southport
/s/ Robert D. Howard
Mayor
Attest:  /s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
   Clerk
ORDINANCE REPEALING ANNEXATION ORDINANCE OF June 9, 2011
WHEREAS, on June 9, 2011, the Board of Aldermen adopted an annexation ordinance
under the authority of Chapter 160A, Article 4A, Part 2 of the North Carolina
General Statutes; and
WHEREAS, said ordinance provided that it would not become effective until June
30, 2012; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen has now concluded that it is in the best
interest of the City of Southport to repeal said ordinance before its effective
date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport that the ordinance entitled AN ORDINANCE TO EXTEND THE CORPORATE
LIMITS OF THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT UNDER THE AUTHORITY GRANTED BY CHAPTER 160A,
ARTICLE 4A, PART 2 OF THE NORTH CAROLINE GENERAL STATUTES for the area known as
Annexation Area B dated June 9, 2011 is hereby repealed in its entirety.
Adopted this 14 th day of July, 2011
City of Southport
/s/ Robert D. Howard
Mayor
Attest:  /s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
   Clerk
Discussion:
Alderman Karn expressed his opinion that annexations are in the best interest
of the citizens of Southport and to repeal the ordinances would give the City
more flexibility for future annexations.
Alderman Poole stated her support for annexation.
Alderman Potter moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to rescind the annexation
ordinances for Areas A & B.
Vote:   Ayes:   Aldermen Potter, Karn, Boguskie
Nay:   Aldermen Adams, Poole, Frink, Mayor Howard
Motion Failed 4-3
b) Consideration of Policy for use of Fort Johnston
Alderman Karn presented a policy recommendation from the Fort Johnston
committee for the use of the Garrison House lawn. It was determined any
permitting of an open flame for cooking demonstrations or re-enactments would
require approval of the City of Southport Fire Marshall. The lawn was
delineated as the area within the roped off area. Vehicles with equipment,
i.e., cannon, would require approval by: the City Manager. Alderman Karn moved,
seconded by Alderman Frink to approve the provisions and use requirements for
use of the Garrison House lawn as amended. Unanimous vote.
Use of the Garrison House Lawn
___________________________________________
The following are provisions for use requirements of the Garrison House lawn at
Fort Johnston, including restrictions and requirements as detailed in the
agreement with the US National Parks Service Lands to Parks program signed by
the City of Southport on
September 5, 2006:
General Use of the Garrison House Lawn:
1.   The lawn may be used by any person, public entity, or organization which
allows an individual from the general public to be a member, subject to
approval by the City of Southport Director of Parks and Recreation.
2.   All activities must be open to the general public with no restrictions
based on gender, race, color, creed, or religious beliefs. Activities may be
limited to children of specific ages with adult supervision.
Permission to Use the Garrison House Lawn
1.   All use of the Garrison House lawn must be approved in writing by the City
of Southport Director of Parks and Recreation.
2.   Requests for use of the lawn must include the name of the person,
organization or entity; date(s) and times of the proposed use (including set-up
time); and a complete description of the specific activities that will take
place on the lawn.
3.   A specific contact person must be identified in the request. This person
is responsible for compliance with this agreement by the requesting party.
4.   Electrical and other utility needs must be arranged and approved in
writing by the City of Southport Director of Parks & Recreation and the
Director of Public Works.
5.   The City of Southport Director of Parks & Recreation, City Manager, Code
Enforcement Officer, or Police and Fire & Safety officials may revoke
permission to use the lawn at any time for violation of this agreement or any
local, state and federal laws.
6.   Applicants must apply for permission each time the lawn is used. In the
case of use in a series of events (farmers market, etc) one application for the
entire series within the same calendar year is sufficient.
7.   All requests for use of the Garrison House lawn will be cross-checked
against any bookings for the Community Building as simultaneous events in both
venues may create a conflict. All conflicts will be resolved by the Director of
Parks & Recreation or his/her designee.
Specific Restrictions, Limitations and Fees
1.   Vehicles or heavy equipment are not permitted on the Garrison House lawn.
If there is a compelling need to do so, permission must be approved in writing
by the City Manager.
2.   Users cannot drive a stake or embed anything into the ground on the lawn
that will be deeper than 6 inches.
3.   Use of chemicals or other substances directly on the surface of the lawn
is prohibited. Report any problems that may require chemicals (herbicide,
insecticide, etc.) to the market coordinator, the Director of Parks &
Recreation or the City Manager.
4.   Open flame or other heat sources are not permitted on the lawn.
5.   All users of the lawn must have it inspected within 2 days after use to
determine if damage has been done. Damages, or lack thereof, must be noted on
the agreement form and filed with the Department of Parks & Recreation.
6.   The name of the person, organization or entity on the request for lawn use
is responsible to repair at their cost any damage to the lawn during use.
7.   If the event or activity will result in income generated by the user, a
fee will be charged and paid to the City of Southport Department of Parks &
Recreation. This fee will be determined by the City Manager based on the nature
of the event, the expenses related to the event or activity to the party
requesting use of the lawn, and any city services that may be requested. All
income from use of the lawn must be used for the maintenance and/or improvement
to Fort Johnston and the surrounding areas within its borders.
Adopted this 14th day of July, 2011
City of Southport
/s/ Robert D. Howard
Mayor
ATTEST:  /s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
      Clerk
c) Consideration of Disaster Recovery Emergency Permitting; Code of Ordinances
Chapter 4: Buildings and Building Regulations, Article III Condemnation, Repair
and Demolition of Unsafe Building
Mrs. Nelson presented an amendment to the City of Southport Code of Ordinances
providing emergency permitting to allow for expedited rebuilding of residences
and businesses in the event of a major disaster.
Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to go into Public Hearing.
Unanimous vote.
Mr. Buddy Barnes, 425 W. West Street and member of the Planning Board stated
the Planning Board had reviewed and recommended the amendment for disaster
relief to Southport citizens.
Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to go out of public hearing.
Unanimous vote.
Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Adams to adopt an Amendment to the
City of Southport Code of Ordinances, Chapter 4: Buildings and Building
Regulations, Disaster Recovery Emergency Permitting. Unanimous vote.
AMENDMENT TO CITY OF SOUTHPORT CODE OF ORDINANCES
TEXT AMENDMENT # 11-0615-01
An Ordinance Amending the Southport City Code of Ordinances, With Respect to
Buildings and Building Regulations
AMEND BY ADDING:
DISASTER RECOVERY
EMERGENCY PERMITTING
Purpose
It has been established that there are a significant number of structures
within the City that are nonconforming to the current ordinances. The City has
realized that due to the large number of nonconforming structures, in the event
of a disaster it may be impractical to require all structures which sustain
significant damage to rebuild in compliance with the current ordinances.
Furthermore, the community's economy will depend on the ability of all property
owners to repair, reconstruct, or rebuild and become operational as quickly as
possible following a disaster. These procedures are intended to allow a
property owner to obtain approval to repair, reconstruct, or rebuild any
structure that is damaged or destroyed as a direct result of a disaster to the
state or condition that existed prior to the disaster without the necessity of
a full review as may otherwise be required under the City Code of Ordinances or
the Southport Unified Development Ordinance (UDO). These structures would be
rebuilt on their original footprint, but not increasing the nonconformity.  Any
application to repair, reconstruct or rebuild a structure that does not comply
with the following procedures shall only be reviewed and acted on pursuant to
other applicable sections of the Citys ordinances. Building permits are
required for all repairs and reconstruction.
Definitions
Damage Assessment Survey: a field survey to determine levels of damage for
structures and identify the condition of said structures.
Disaster: any natural or human-caused catastrophe (including any hurricane,
tornado, tsunami, earthquake, or related), or, regardless of cause, any
widespread fire or flood, or large-scale impacts from an explosion. The
disaster will be declared an emergency by the Mayor of the City of Southport.
Emergency: a local emergency, as defined by the City Code, which has been
declared by the Mayor of the City of Southport for a specific disaster and has
not been terminated.
Reconstruction: the rebuilding of permanent replacement housing, construction
of large-scale public or private facilities badly damaged or destroyed in a
major disaster, addition of major community improvements, and full restoration
of a healthy economy.
Planning Review Not Required
A. Any structure that sustains damage as a direct result of a disaster and
receives a lawful occupancy permit after a damage assessment may be repaired to
the state or condition that existed prior to the disaster without the necessity
of obtaining planning approval. The work must be completed within 18 months of
when the Board of Aldermen declares the City is ready to begin receiving
applications for permits after the declared disaster.
B. If a structure receives a lawful occupancy permit after a damage assessment
and the repair is delayed through litigation or other cause beyond the control
of the owner, then the owner shall apply for an extension.
C. The requirements of the UDO and the City Code of Southport shall be met,
except as specifically provided herein.
D. For applicants who do not meet the time period set forth by paragraphs A and
B, any repair that occurs must comply with all requirements of the UDO and the
City Code of Southport.
Manufactured Homes
Manufactured homes that are damaged or destroyed may be repaired, replaced, or
changed to stick built construction using the following:
A. If the structure receives a lawful occupancy permit after damage assessment,
the structure may be repaired compliant with this Section.
B. If the structure is declared restricted use or unsafe to enter or occupy
after damage assessment, the structure may be repaired, replaced, or changed to
stick built construction.
1. The structure may be repaired provided the requirements of the UDO and the
City Code of Southport are met.
2. The structure may be replaced pursuant to the terms and conditions of this
ordinance.
3. The structure may be removed and a stick built home may be constructed under
the current regulations for review and approval. This would be considered a
change to the existing condition so the benefits of this ordinance would not
apply.
Planning Emergency Permitting
In order to be reviewed under the provisions of this ordinance:
A. A structure that sustains damage or is destroyed shall be repaired,
reconstructed, or rebuilt to the state or condition that existed prior to the
disaster.
B. A structure that sustains damage or is destroyed must receive a declared
restricted use or unsafe to enter or occupy and require an emergency
construction building permit after a damage assessment.
Planning Emergency Permitting Application
The planning emergency permitting application must be submitted within six
months of when the Board of Aldermen declares the City is ready to begin
receiving applications for permits. At their discretion, the Board of Aldermen
may extend the application period by resolution.
Planning Emergency Permitting Affidavit
The planning emergency permitting affidavit must be submitted as part of the
planning emergency permitting application. The affidavit, to be signed by the
owner of record and notarized, must certify that all structures are being built
back to the height, density, setbacks and other such requirements that legally
existed prior to the disaster. However, if any local, state, or federal
regulations require any changes to the structure with regard to height or
square footage, the affidavit will allow the owner to build back with changes
to comply with those regulations.
Single Family or Duplex Dwelling
A. Any single family or duplex dwelling unit that sustains damage or is
destroyed must submit a complete planning emergency permitting application in
order to be reviewed under this ordinance. The application shall include such
information and documentation as may be reasonably required by the
Administrator, including all the following items:
1. If the structure sustains damage amounting to less than 50% of the fair
market value:
a. A planning emergency permit and permitting affidavit as described.
b. Elevation drawings previously approved by the City showing the height of all
four elevations of all structures on the site prior to the disaster or pre-
disaster photos showing all four sides of each structure on the property.
c. Pre-disaster photos of the entire property layout including front, rear and
side yards.
2. If the structure sustains damage amounting to 50% or more of the fair market
value:
a. A planning emergency permit and permitting affidavit as described.
b. Two copies of an as-built survey or such other documentation or information
as required by the Administrator.
B. The requirements of the UDO and of the City Code of Southport shall be met,
except as modified herein.
C. For applicants who cannot meet the requirements of paragraph A and for all
applicants who do not meet the time period set forth, any repair,
reconstruction, or rebuilding that occurs must comply with all requirements of
the UDO and the City Code of Southport.
Non-Single Family Structures (Commercial, Industrial, Multi-Family, etc.)
A. Any structure, other than a single family or duplex dwelling unit, that
sustains damage or is destroyed must submit a complete planning emergency
permitting application in order to be reviewed under this ordinance. The
application shall include such information and documentation as may be
reasonably required by the Administrator, including all the following items:
1. A planning emergency permit and permitting affidavit, available in the
Planning Department and Building Inspections Division.
2. Two copies of all approved plans OR two copies of an as-built survey.
3. Any other documentation as required by the Administrator.
B. The requirements of the UDO and the City Code of Southport shall be met,
except as modified herein.
C. For applicants who cannot meet the requirements of paragraph A and for all
applicants who do not meet the time period set forth, any repair,
reconstruction, or rebuilding that occurs must comply with all requirements of
the UDO and the City Code of Southport.
Landscape and Tree Standards
Non single-family properties that sustain damage or are destroyed as a direct
result of a disaster must meet the current requirements of the UDO in Article
18 for landscaping and comply with an approved landscape plan. The time frame
for meeting this requirement shall be extended to three years, with one third
of the required planting to be done in each of the three years. The three-year
time period will begin when the property is issued a Certificate of Occupancy
by the City.
Applications under Review at the Time of a Disaster
A. All action on applications for development, subdivision, or other approvals
or permits that are reviewed and acted on by the Administrator that are
submitted during or are in progress at the time of a State of Emergency due to
a disaster declaration by the Mayor shall be suspended for such time as the
Administrator deems necessary, provided that such suspension shall not exceed
18 months. The time frames established for reviews as set forth elsewhere shall
be suspended during this period. All such applications shall be reviewed and
acted on based on the provisions in effect at the time the application was
deemed complete.
B. All applications for approvals or permits that are reviewed and acted on by
the Board of Adjustment, the Planning Board, or the Board of Aldermen that are
submitted during or are in progress at the time of a State of Emergency due to
a disaster declaration by the Mayor shall be suspended until such time that the
Board can reasonably schedule any required public hearings and meetings to
review and act on such applications, provided that such suspension shall not
exceed 18 months. All such applications shall be reviewed and acted on based on
the provisions in effect at the time the application was deemed complete.
TEMPORARY SINGLE FAMILY USES
Purpose
The purpose of this Section is to allow single family dwelling owners to place
a temporary dwelling on the property where the damaged or destroyed dwelling is
located, while the existing single family dwelling is being repaired or
rebuilt.
Applicability
A. This Section shall apply in all cases where any single family dwelling, as
defined in the Southport UDO, is damaged or destroyed as a direct result of any
event that has been declared a State of Emergency due to a disaster, as defined
in the City Code of Southport. In such cases where these provisions conflict
with other provisions, the provisions here shall take precedence.
B. These provisions shall be in effect for six months from the date the Board
of Aldermen declares the City is ready to begin receiving applications for
permits. At their discretion, the Board of Aldermen may extend this time period
by resolution.
Provisions
A. Single family dwelling owners shall place the temporary dwelling within the
legal limits of the property where the damaged or destroyed dwelling is
located.
B. Each single family property is limited to one temporary dwelling.
C. The dwelling shall be travel ready.
D. Basic sanitation facilities shall be in place prior to placement of the
temporary dwelling.
E. The location of the temporary dwelling shall comply with health and safety
regulations as stated by the Building Inspector and the Fire Marshal and as
approved by the Administrator.
TEMPORARY NON-RESIDENTIAL USES
Purpose
The purpose of this Section is to allow permitted non-residential uses to place
a temporary non-residential unit on the property where the damaged or destroyed
non-residential use is located, while the existing non-residential use is being
repaired or rebuilt.
Applicability
A. This Section shall apply in all cases where any non-residential use, as
defined in the UDO, is damaged or destroyed as a direct result of any event
that has been declared a State of Emergency due to a disaster, as defined in
the City Code of Southport. In such cases where the provisions of this Section
conflict with other UDO or City Code provisions, the provisions of this Section
shall take precedence.
B. These provisions shall be in effect for six months from the date the Board
of Aldermen declares the City is ready to begin receiving applications for
permits. At their discretion, the Board of Aldermen may extend this time period
by resolution.
Provisions
A. Non-residential uses shall place temporary unit(s) within the legal limits
of the property where the damaged or destroyed non-residential use is located.
B. Temporary non-residential units shall be travel ready.
C. Basic sanitation facilities shall be in place prior to placement of the
temporary non-residential units.
D. The location of the temporary non-residential units shall comply with health
and safety regulations as stated by the Building Inspector and the Fire Marshal
and as approved by the Administrator.
d) Consideration of Jonas Creek PUD Preliminary Plat
Mrs. Nelson and Public Service Director, Ralph Cardwell, confirmed that
approval of the preliminary plat for Phase I only of Jonas Creek Planned Unit
Development (PUD) was requested. The Board discussed the proposed 50 ft. right-
of-way in lieu of a 60 ft. right-of-way. It was noted the lesser right-of-way
can be permitted in a PUD and has been in the Harbor Oaks and Landing
subdivisions. It was determined the streets will be built to all North Carolina
Department of Transportation standards. Alderman Poole moved, seconded by
Alderman Potter to approve the Preliminary Plat for Jonas Creek PUD Phase I.
Unanimous vote.
e) Consideration of an Ordinance establishing and implementing a program to
charge mitigation rates for emergency and non-emergency services provided by
the Southport Rescue Squad for residents outside of the Citys service area
Rescue Squad Chief, Neal Sage, explained the request to start billing residents
outside the corporate limits for specific emergency and non-emergency services,
the necessary ordinance to establish the practice and to initiate a service
contract for billing, city residents would not be billed, an estimated $1,000 -
$2,000 in revenues would be collected, the service contract for collections
would be on a yearly contract, and the contract fee would be 18 percent of what
collected. The Board discussed what constituted a negligent act.
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to approve an Ordinance
establishing and implementing a program to charge mitigation rates for
emergency and non-emergency services provided by the Southport Rescue Squad for
residents outside of the Citys corporate limits. Unanimous vote.
ORDINANCE NO: 2011
AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING AND IMPLEMENTING A PROGRAM TO CHARGE MITIGATION RATES
FOR EMERGENCY AND NON-EMERGENCY SERVICES PROVIDED/RENDERED BY THE SOUTHPORT
RESCUE SQUAD
WHEREAS, the emergency and non-emergency services response activity to
incidents continues to increase each year; Environmental Protection
requirements involving equipment and training, and Homeland Security
regulations involving equipment and training, create additional demands on all
operational aspects of the rescue services; and
WHEREAS, the rescue squad has investigated different methods to maintain a high
level of quality of emergency and non-emergency services capability throughout
times of constantly increasing service demands, where maintaining an effective
response by the rescue squad decreases the costs of incidents to insurance
carriers, businesses, and individuals through timely and effective management
of emergency situations, saving lives and environmental damage; and
WHEREAS, raising real property tax to meet the increase in service demands
would not be fair when the responsible party should be held accountable for
their actions; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport desires to implement a
fair and equitable procedure by which to collect said mitigation rates and to
establish a billing system in accordance with applicable laws, regulations and
guidelines;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN OF THE CITY OF
SOUTHPORT:
SECTION 1: The Southport Rescue Squad shall initiate mitigation rates for the
delivery of emergency and non-emergency services by the rescue squad for
personnel, supplies and equipment to the scene of emergency and non-emergency
incidents. The mitigation rates shall be based on actual costs of the services
and that which is usual, customary and reasonable (UCR), which may include any
services, personnel, supplies, and equipment and with baselines established by
addendum to this document.
SECTION 2: A claim shall be submitted to the responsible party and filed
through their insurance carrier. In some circumstances, the responsible party
will be billed directly.
SECTION 3: The Board of Aldermen may make rules or regulations and from time to
time may amend, revoke, or add rules and regulations as it may deem necessary
or expedient in respect to billing for these mitigation rates or the collection
thereof.
SECTION 4: It is hereby declared and determined that all formal actions of this
Board of Aldermen concerning and relating to the adoption of this Ordinance
were adopted in open meetings of this Board of Aldermen, and that all
deliberations of this Board of Aldermen and any of its committees that resulted
in such formal actions were in accordance with all legal requirements, and the
Codified Ordinances of the City of Southport.
SECTION 5: This ordinance shall take effect thirty days (30) from the date of
adoption.
SECTION 6: Mitigation rates will only apply to persons who are not residents of
the City of Southport. Residents within the City of Southport currently
subsidize these emergency service costs through their property taxes. For
purposes of this section a resident is defined as: (a) any person who maintains
his or her full time residence within the City of Southport; or (b) is the
majority owner of a business that operates from real property owned by the
business located within the City of Southport. (For purposes of this section a
business includes any joint stock company, corporation, association, joint
venture, limited liability company, club or partnership).
Passed:  7-14-2011          /s/ Robert D. Howard
                  Mayor
Approved:  7-14-2011          /s/ Regina W. Alexander
                  Interim City Manager
VOTE ON PASSAGE:    6  Yea    0  Nay    0  Abstain
ATTEST:  /s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
      Clerk
f) Consideration of Service Agreement between the City and Fire Recovery USA,
LLC to provide billing services for the Southport Rescue Squad
Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to authorize the Service
Agreement between the City and Fire Recovery USA, LLC to provide billing
services for the Southport Rescue Squad. Unanimous vote.
g) Consideration of Financing Proposal for Police Vehicles
Alderman Adams moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to authorize the purchase of
the two (2) police vehicles in cash and to reject the financing proposals.
Unanimous vote.
h) Consideration of Contract and Maintenance for Electric Distribution System
(BEMC)
Alderman Adams pointed out a large portion of monies paid to BEMC is for
hanging banners. Alderman Karn reported a policy for the hanging of banners is
being prepared by a committee of himself, Alderman Poole, and Alderman Potter.
Manager Alexander suggested including Donna Boyan of Public Services on the
committee. Attorney Isenberg advised an amendment had been made to item 1.2
relating to bidding requirements. Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman
Frink to approve the contract with Brunswick Electric Membership Corp. for
repair and maintenance of the citys electric distribution system as amended by
Attorney Isenberg. Unanimous vote. Contract on file in the Clerks Office.
i) Consideration of Appointment of Tax Collector G.S. 105-349
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to accept the City Manager
recommendation to appoint Gayle Jones as City of Southport Tax Collector.
Unanimous vote.
j) Consideration of Planning Board Appointments
Alderman Poole requested the appointments be postponed until the September
meeting and the selection requirements be suspended. City Attorney, Mike
Isenberg, confirmed the current assignments stay in effect until successors are
sworn in and the selection procedures are set forth in the UDO.
k) Discussion of possible action regarding the Southport Historical Societys
use of the room adjacent to their storage/office room in the Garrison House
Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Frink to amend the lease with the
Southport Historical Society to allow leasing of an additional room in the Fort
Johnston Garrison House with provision the room would be vacated in the event
the City needs the space during renovations to City Hall. Unanimous vote.
IX.   Other Business
Alderman Boguskie proposed moving forward with appropriating money for the
waterfront development as discussed during a workshop with Resource Institute.
He expressed concerns to the information reported by the Army Corps of
Engineers that 4 ft. per year is eroding from the shoreline. Alderman Potter
recommended involving local people before hiring a consultant and she
questioned if the waterfront area from Kingsley to the Yacht Basin is eroding
at the same pace as the area studied by the Corps. The Mayor pointed out many
plans have been developed over the years that were not all encompassing. He
stated a long range plan would be a public plan involving many public meetings,
Planning Board, Beautification Committee, Public Services, etc. He clarified
the Board would be only be committing to development of a project scope. In
response to Alderman Potter, the Mayor explained a $50,000 - $75,000 commitment
towards the $5 or $6 million estimated cost would show the Citys dedication to
the project when applying for grants. Alderman Nelson stated his opinion that
consideration of such an important issue should be addressed as an agenda item
and not as other business. Alderman Poole expressed her understanding no monies
would be committed until the Board sees the project scope. No action was taken
by the Board.
X.   City Managers Comments
There were no manager comments.
XI.   Board Comments
Alderman Frink expressed thanks for the quick clean-up after the 4 th of July
festival.
Alderman Potter stated she was extremely proud of how well all the emergency
personnel worked together in response to a drowning.
Alderman Potter expressed support for the Rescue squad and their request for a
new first response vehicle.
Alderman Boguskie pointed out the City is a full service city with a minimum
amount of staff. He stated he was proud of the City employees and the jobs they
perform.
XII.   Adjournment
Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Nelson to adjourn the meeting at 9:
27 p.m. Unanimous vote.
      _________________________________
          Mayor
_________________________________
Clerk
AUGUST 11, 2011
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN             REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
AUGUST 11, 2011               6:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS (CITY HALL) SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Ed Boguskie, Nelson Adams, Ken Karn,
         Mary Ellen Poole, Jwantana Frink, Vickie Potter
STAFF PRESENT:   Regina W. Alexander, Interim City Manager/MMC-City Clerk
         Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
         Michele Windham, Deputy Clerk
         Amy Nelson, Planning Director
         Patty Miller, Finance Director
         Jerry Dove, Police Chief
         Neal Sage, Rescue Squad Chief
         Greg Cumbee, Fire Chief
         Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
I.   Call to Order - 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
II.   Invocation
Alderman Adams welcomed citizens
Chief Jerry Dove pronounced the invocation.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Howard stated if any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.
III.   Approval of Minutes
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to approve two sets of
minutes. Unanimous vote.
1.   July 14, 2011 Regular Meeting Minutes
2.   July 14, 2011 Closed Session Minutes
IV.   Approval of Agenda
Alderman Poole requested Item IX New Business (h) be amended to add
appointments to the Board of Adjustment.
Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to approve the agenda as
amended. Unanimous vote.
V.   Public Comments
Mr. Ernest Long, 4172 Brookfield Way, co-owner of Bull Frog Corner, spoke about
a citation he received for placing benches under the trees at the curb, the
recent high temperatures, sidewalks widths up to 16 feet and American with
Disabilities Act (ADA) requirements.
Ms. Marianne Long, 4172 Brookfield Way, co-owner of Bull Frog Corner, expressed
her pride in her business, spoke about providing benches for visitors to
Southport, and she presented a petition with over 3,300 signatures in favor of
keeping the benches under the trees.
Mr. Jay Royal, 1320 N. Howe Street, talked about the struggling business
economy.
Mr. Bobby Hart, 925 N. Howe Street, spoke in support of Mr. Long.
Ms. Yvonne Moody, 609 Marsh Grass Court spoke on the wide range of recycling
currently being picked up by Waste Industries. She suggested the City provide
larger bins for residential recycling efforts.
Ms. Jenny Dunn, 197 St. Brendan Court, shared her experiences using the benches
in front of Bull Frog Corner.
Ms. Karen Knighton, 406 Stuart Avenue, talked about the need for better
handicapped accessibility throughout the city.
Mr. Adam Bingel, 1016 Bonner Bussells Drive, spoke about the expense of the
annexation and the need of a support vehicle for the rescue squad.
Ms. Kendall Crews, 211 River Drive, expressed her embarrassment about the
negative publicity on the benches issue in the news media.
Statements submitted by Mrs. Dianne Boguskie, 502 West Brown Street, Ms.
Barbara Stockbridge-Davidson, 518 Brunswick Street and Mrs. Shirley Wilson, 502
Brunswick Street were read by the Deputy Clerk. (Statements on file in the
Clerks Office)
VI.   Committee Reports
a)   Transportation & Traffic
Alderman Boguskie reported that the North Carolina Department of Transportation
(NCDOT) was currently patching potholes on W. 9th Street near the Southport
Elementary School and a survey of needed sidewalk handicapped ramps will be
performed by the Committee.
b)   Wastewater
Alderman Boguskie reported that the County had returned the approved Sewer
Transmission Facilities Agreement. (Agreement incorporated in the minutes as
Attachment I).
c)   Tourism
Alderman Boguskie reported a new Tourism Director had been hired by the City.
d)   Fort Johnston
Alderman Frink reported the agenda included an item from the Ft. Johnston
Committee.
e)   Alderman Poole reported:
Shop To the Beat continues to grow with positive feedback from merchants and
the public, as well as participating entertainers. The events will continue the
1st and 3rd Thursday of every month through November. Times are from 4 - 6 pm.
In the past, Shop to the Beat received significant media coverage in The State
Port Pilot; this month coverage was in the Wilmington Star News as well as the
South Brunswick Magazine.
The Committee encourages all citizens to participate, spread the word about
these events, and enjoy.
f)   Electric
Alderman Karn reported he attended the ElectriCities meeting.
∙   Financial condition is good,
∙   Rates will remain stable through 2013,
∙   Highest priority goal is to reduce rates at some time in the future.
g)   Planning
Alderman Potter reported the Planning Board is reviewing the sign ordinance as
directed by the Board of Aldermen.
h)   Parks and Recreation
Alderman Potter provided members with a copy of the application and regulations
for the Citys Adopt-A-Fire-Hydrant Program. She reported the Parks and
Recreation Department had raised $300 selling city flags during the weekly
Farmers Market and will be adding Southport car tags and other merchandise.
Alderman Potter read a letter from the Parks & Recreation Advisory Committee.
The Southport Parks and Recreation Committee does not endorse the plan to turn
the tennis courts at Fort Johnston into a parking lot. As a recreation
committee we would rather update an amenity than lose it altogether. Thank you
for your time and consideration in this matter.
Alderman Potter moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to authorize the Parks and
Recreation Department to move forward with the Adopt-A-Hydrant program
according to the regulations. Unanimous vote.
i)   Community Building
Alderman Potter moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to adopt the proposed
Southport Community Building Fee Schedule effective September 1, 2011.
Unanimous vote.
SOUTHPORT COMMUNITY BUILDING
2011-2012 FEE SCHEDULE
I.   Registered 501C Non-Profit/Civic Groups
Sunday - Thursday
Entire Building:   $ 100.00 for a required minimum for hour block
         $ 20.00 each additional hour
         $ 50.00 use of PA system (non profit groups only)
Friday and Saturday   General Southport Taxpaying Residents rates apply
II.   General/Public Business Reservation Rates
Southport Resident Rates - Must Pay Southport City Taxes*
The Fee Schedule is based on a per hour fee for events with a required minimum
of 4 hours
Weekend and Evening Events
∙   Entire Building:      $125.00 per hour
Weekday Events (Monday - Thursday 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.)
∙   Entire Building:      $100.00 per hour
∙   Great Room Only:      $ 75.00 per hour
∙   Conference Room Only:   $ 50.00 per hour
* Southport Residents Taxes in Part Assist with the Upkeep Of the Facility
III.   General Public/Business Reservation Rates
Non-Southport Resident Rates
The Fee Schedule is based on a per hour fee for events with a required minimum
of 4 hours
Weekend and Evening Events
∙   Entire Building:      $ 400.00 per hour
Weekday Events (Monday - Thursday 8:30 a.m. - 4:30 p.m.)
∙   Entire Building:      $ 250.00 per hour
∙   Great Room Only:      $ 225.00 per hour
∙   Conference Room Only:   $ 200.00 per hour
IV.   SPECIAL RATE FOR SOUTHPORT TAXPAYING RESIDENTS
$50 per hour for one time per year usage. (Anything over one time per year
general Southport taxpaying resident rates will apply)
.....................................................
VII.   Departmental Reports
Reports placed in agenda packets
Mayor Howard, and Police Chief Dove recognized Officer Kyle Pszczultkoski with
a certificate of recognition and achievement, and a life saving merit award for
responding to a call and being instrumental in saving a life.
Mayor Howard, City Manager Alexander and Rescue Chief Sage acknowledged squad
members Justin Bridge and Tyler Johnson for outstanding response to an
emergency call on July 20, 2011.
VIII.   Public Hearing - Boat Slip Parking
Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to open the public hearing
for the purpose of discussing boat slip parking. Unanimous vote.
No comments were made.
Alderman Frink moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to close the Public Hearing.
Unanimous vote.
IX.   New Business
a) Consideration of Resolution Honoring Mary Russ, Retired Tax Collector
The Mayor, Board members, and the City Manager joined in presenting a
Resolution Of Appreciation to Mary L. Russ for her 52 years of exemplary
service to the citizens of Southport in her roles as City Tax Collector,
Waccamaw Bank employee, 4th of July Festival Committee member, and devoted
church member. Ms. Russ expressed her appreciation.
Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Frink to adopt the Resolution of
Appreciation Honoring Mary Russ. Unanimous vote
RESOLUTION OF APPRECIATION
WHEREAS, Mary L. Russ has served the City of Southport for 24 years, and
WHEREAS, Mary L. Russ was appointed Tax Collector for the City of Southport
March 2000; and
WHEREAS, her duties and responsibilities as Tax Collector has had a profound
effect on efficiency and commitment in the performance of her job; and
WHEREAS, her working relationships with co-workers and citizens has been
characterized by dedication in getting the job done; and
WHEREAS, the City recognizes the excellent record and tax collection rate that
Mary has compiled during her tenure; and
WHEREAS, Mary L. Russ retired on July 31, 2011 and was honored, and celebrated
by co-workers and friends.
NO, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that Mayor Robert D. Howard and the Board of
Aldermen expresses sincere appreciation and thanks to Mary Russ for her
contributions to the City of Southport and convey best wishes on her
retirement.
ADOPTED this the 11th day of August 2011.
s/s Robert D. Howard
Mayor
Attest: s/s Regina W. Alexander, MMC
      Clerk
b) Consideration of Resolution Opposing New N.C. House District 18
Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to adopt the Resolution
Opposing New North Carolina House District 18. Unanimous vote.
RESOLUTION OPPOSING NEW NORTH CAROLINA HOUSE DISTRICT 18
THAT WHEREAS, the new proposed House District 18 includes portions of
Wilmington, Leland and Southport; and
WHEREAS, Wilmington is an urban center, Leland a rapidly developing rural
comunity and Southport a coastal community with each area having different
needs and interests in regard to economics, development and traffic; and
WHEREAS, proposed House District 18 includes approximately 60% of Southport
with the remaining portion of Southport in a different district; and
WHEREAS, it would be inefficient and confusing for Southport officials to have
to work with more than one representative in reference to issues affecting
Southport; and
WHEREAS, having all of Southport in one district and all of Leland in one
district would promote the best interests of both communities;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport hereby requests the North Carolina General Assembly to include all of
Southport in one House District and one Senate District.
Adopted this 11th day of August, 2011      City of Southport
/s/ Robert D. Howard
Mayor
ATTEST:  /s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
      Clerk
c) Consideration of Moratorium on Sign Enforcement Pending Planning Board Sign
Ordinance Revision
Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to place a moratorium on
enforcement of off-premises and vehicle signs pending the Planning Board
recommendation for revisions to the sign ordinance. Unanimous vote.
d) Consideration of UDO Amendment for Boat Slip Parking
Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to approve the resolution to
adopt a text amendment to the Unified Development Ordinance Article 16, Section
16-2 (F) as recommended by the Planning Board and presented by the Planning
Director. Unanimous vote.
RESOLUTION APPROVING TEXT AMENDMENT TO UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
THAT WHEREAS, the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance and other
land use ordinances that control land development within both the Citys
incorporated areas and within its extraterritorial area; and
WHEREAS, in order to promote the public health, safety and general welfare and
to promote the best interest of the city and community, it is necessary for the
Southport Board of Aldermen from time to time to consider appropriate
revisions, modifications and additions to the citys land use ordinances; and
WHEREAS, the Planning Director has prepared and submitted to the Planning Board
a proposed amendment to Article 16 of the Southport Unified Development
Ordinance; and
WHEREAS, the Planning Board has considered this matter and has recommended that
this proposed amendment to the Unified Development Ordinance be approved; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to N. C. General Statutes and city ordinances, a public
hearing, properly noticed, was held on August 11, 2011, where public comment
was heard and considered before the Board of Aldermen regarding this issue; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen hereby finds that this proposed amendment to the
Unified Development Ordinance is consistent with the Southport CAMA Land Use
Plan; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that this amendment is reasonable
and in the public interest in that (i) this aspect of parking is not properly
addressed in the Unified Development Ordinance, (ii) this amendment is
necessary to promote orderly growth and development in the City of Southport,
and (iii) it is necessary to promote the public safety and general welfare of
the community by allowing for the use of boat slips as parking spaces in the
City where applicable.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that the
attached amendment and addition to the Southport Unified Development Ordinance
is hereby approved and adopted.
This 11th day of August, 2011.
City of Southport
By: s/s Robert D. Howard
   Mayor
ATTEST: s/s Regina W. Alexander, MMC
      Clerk
Article 16: Off-Street Parking and Off-Street Loading Requirements
Section 16-2: General
Addition to this section:
(F) Utilization of boat slips as required parking. A boat slip is defined
herein as a space
designed for the mooring of a single watercraft and usually projecting from a
dock.
Eating and drinking establishments and water-oriented retail businesses may
utilize
boat slips to meet off-street parking requirements subject in accordance with
the
following standards:
1) All slips must be under the ownership or long-term control of the subject
business.
2) Boat slips must be available on a first come, first served basis, with no
fee
assessed for use.
3) Boat slips must be reasonably designed to accommodate customer boats.
4) The dock facility must be properly accessible in accordance with the
regulations
governing the maneuvering of watercraft on the adjacent waterway.
5) Boat slips must only be used for transient mooring of customers frequenting
said establishment and no extended storage of vessels shall be allowed.
6) Boat slips are allowed to meet off-street parking requirements strictly on a
one parking space per 20' linear dockage.
This ordinance shall be effective upon the date of adoption.
e) Consideration of Text Amendment, City of Southport Code of Ordinances for
Taxicab
Alderman Frink moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to amend the City of Southport
Code of Ordinances as recommended by staff. Unanimous vote.
AMENDMENT TO CITY OF SOUTHPORT CODE OF ORDINANCES
BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen that Section 10-111 of the Code of
Ordinances is amended to read as follows:
ARTICLE V. TAXICABS*
Sec. 10-111. Definition.
The word "taxicab," when used in this article, shall be defined as any motor
vehicle seating nine (9)  fifteen (15) or fewer passengers, operated upon any
street or highway on call or on demand, accepting or soliciting passengers
indiscriminately for hire between such points along streets or highways as may
be directed by the passenger so being transported, and shall not include motor
vehicles or motor vehicle carriers as defined in G.S. 20-376.
f) Approval of Tax Releases & Annual Tax Settlement
Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to approve the Tax Releases
& Annual Tax Settlement. Unanimous vote. (Annual Tax Settlement on file in the
Clerks Office).
 
BILL #   NAME & ACCOUNT # DATE AMOUNT RELEASED VALUE RELEASED REASON FOR
PARCEL #                                                      RELEASE
 
      Harvon Corp.            $ 299.25                Boat billed and paid in
#1321 #3048103     08/01/2011    21.67 Int. 166,250 Horry County
                              $ 320.92
 
                                  $ 120.60
#3445 Kesler, David F. 08/01/2011     4.73 Int.  67,000Duplicate Listing
                                  $ 125.33
 
TOTAL   $ 446.25
 
g) Consideration of Resolution for Local Water Supply Plan.
Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Potter to approve the Resolution to
Adopt the Local Water Supply Plan. Unanimous vote.
RESOLUTION BY CITY OF SOUTHPORT BOARD OF ALDERMEN TO APPROVE AND ADOPT THE
LOCAL WATER SUPPLY PLAN
WHEREAS, North Carolina General Statute 143-355 (I) requires that each unit of
local government that provides public water services or plans to provide such
services shall, either individually or together with other such units of local
government, prepare and submit a Local Water Supply Plan; and
WHEREAS, as required by the statute and in the interests of sound local
planning, a Local water Supply Plan for the City of Southport, has been
developed and submitted to the Board of Aldermen for approval; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen finds that the Local Water Supply Plan is in
accordance with the provisions of North Carolina General Statute 143-355 (I)
and that it will provide appropriate guidance for the future management of
water supplies for the City of Southport, as well as useful information to the
Department of Environment and Natural Resources for the development of a state
water supply plan as required by statute;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport that the Local Water Supply Plan entitled, PWSID#04-10-010 dated
2010, is hereby approved and shall be submitted to the Department of
Environment and Natural Resources.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Board of Aldermen intends that this plan shall
be revised to reflect changes in relevant data and projections at least once
every five years or as otherwise required by the Department, in accordance with
the statute and sound planning practice.
This the 11th day of August 2011.
/s/ Robert D. Howard
Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
      Clerk
h) Consideration of Planning Board Appointments & Board of Adjustment
Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Potter to reappoint Ms. Tish Hatem
and Mr. Donnie Joyner to three year terms on the Planning Board as full ETJ
members, term expiring March, 2014, contingent on approval by the Brunswick
County Commissioners. Unanimous vote.
Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to appoint Mr. Dale McPherson
and Ms. Martha Johnson to serve on the Planning Board as full city members for
a term of three years, term expiring March, 2014 and to appoint Ms. Marie
Dailey as a city alternate member for a term of three years, term expiring
March, 2014. Unanimous vote.
Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Potter to appoint Ms. Jennifer
Fontaine to serve on the Zoning Board of Adjustment as a city alternate member
for a term of one year, term expiring June, 2012. Unanimous vote.
Vacant extra-territorial jurisdiction (ETJ) positions with the Planning Board
and Board of Adjustment to be advertised.
i) Consideration of Action on Ft. Johnston Committee Recommendation
Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Potter to table action and hold a
special meeting on Monday, August 22, 2011 at 6:00 p.m. Unanimous vote.
j) Consideration of Financing for New Ladder Truck to Replace a 25 year Old
Vehicle for Fire Department
Alderman Adams moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to authorize the solicitation
of bids for purchase of a new ladder truck to be acquired through fire fee
funds only for the Fire Department. Unanimous vote.
k) Discussion with possible action regarding the benches within the city/state
right-of-way
The Board discussed safety concerns and maintenance of benches placed by
private businesses on the City sidewalks.
Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to refer the matter regarding
the benches on sidewalks to the Parks and Recreation Committee for drafting of
specifications and criteria. Unanimous vote.
X.   Other Business
Alderman Boguskie provided each member with a draft copy of the Southport
Waterfront Revitalization Master Plan. He reported the Corps of Engineers will
be submitting a plan in November on how to protect the Bay Street pump station
from further erosion. He encouraged everyone to review the Revitalization
Master Plan, discuss with friends and neighbors and consider listening to other
similar companies/consultants on revitalizing the waterfront. The Mayor spoke
in support of the plan noting the potential for receiving grant monies.
XI.   City Manager Comments
Manager Alexander announced the hiring of Ms. Cindy Brochure as the Tourism and
Economic Development Director. Ms. Brochure thanked the Mayor, Board and
citizens of Southport for the opportunity to work with them.
Manager Alexander provided the Southport Rescue Squad Annual Report and
encouraged the Board to review it.
Manager Alexander reported the Emergency Operation Center Plan is being updated
and all city employees will be issued new City identification badges to be worn
at all time while on duty.
XII.   Board Comments
Alderman Boguskie reminded everyone that the October issue of Our State
Magazine will be featuring Southport, entitled Historical Fishing Village at
the Mouth of the Cape Fear River.
XIII.    Adjournment
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to adjourn the meeting at
9:00 p.m. Unanimous vote.
_________________________________
Mayor
_________________________________
Clerk
AUGUST 22, 2011
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
AUGUST 22, 2011    6:00 P.M.
COMMUNITY BUILDING SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Ed Boguskie, Nelson Adams, Ken Karn
         Vickie Potter, Mary Ellen Poole, Jwantana Frink
STAFF PRESENT:   Regina W. Alexander, Interim City Manager/MMC-City Clerk
         Michele Windham, Deputy Clerk
I.   Call to Order - 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Howard called the special meeting to hear public comment on Fort Johnston
to order at 6:00 p.m.
II.   Invocation
Alderman Nelson welcomed citizens and pronounced the invocation.
III.   Public Comment
Ms. Shirley Wilson, 502 Brunswick Street, and a volunteer at the Visitor
Center, spoke about involving the volunteers in discussions, the accommodations
that would need to be made in Fort Johnston to make space for pictorial
displays, and security concerns.
Ms. Pat Kirkman, 119 Park Avenue, Acting President of Southport Historical
Society, spoke in opposition of using Fort Johnston as the Visitor Center.
Mr. Larry Maisel, 114 W. West Street, talked about the Historical Societys
experiences using the Fort Johnston Garrison building.
Mr. Paul Fisher, 110 River Drive, stated he was on the advisory committee that
developed a comprehensive concept plan that included Fort Johnston being used
as a visitor center, the tennis court developed as a parking lot contingent on
completion of Lowe-White Park, expansion of the Community Building, relocation
of the playground, and a riverwalk. Mr. Fisher cited a recent State Port Pilot
newspaper poll result of 52% in favor of the Visitor Center moving into the
Fort Johnston Garrison.
Mr. Phil Fravel, 311 Yaupon Drive, representing Mr. Sandy Toth discussed the
items; books, t-shirts, tickets for community events, etc. sold in the Visitor
Center and he questioned how the regulations governing Fort Johnston would
affect those sales.
Ms. Barbara Stockbridge-Davidson, 518 Brunswick Street, and volunteer at the
Visitor Center, suggested Fort Johnston be used as a historical museum
Ms. Cornelia Rogers, 319 Atlantic Avenue, encouraged the Visitor Center
volunteers and the Board to have an open dialogue and work together.
Ms. Karen Mosteller, 310 N. Atlantic Avenue, spoke in opposition to moving the
Visitor Center.
Ms. Becky Felton , 230 Caswell Avenue, suggested the Fort Johnston Committee
provide the public with a detailed business plan for use of the Garrison
building and questioned where the money would come from for renovations.
Mr. Rick Johnstone, 110 Willis Drive, recalled his wifes family history
enjoying the tennis court, he questioned the need for additional parking spaces
and spoke in support of leaving the Visitor Center in its present location.
Ms. Martha Johnson, 227 E. 11 th Street, recommended Fort Johnston be used as a
historical site.
Ms. Cindy Brochure, the Citys new Tourism & Economic Development Director
introduced herself and welcomed working with the Historical Society and Visitor
Center volunteers.
Ms. Becky, Captain Adkins Drive, spoke about the availability of restroom
facilities at the current Visitor Center on the west side of town and she spoke
in support of leaving the Visitor Center in its present location.
Dr. Sylvia Beck, Brunswick County resident, spoke in favor of moving the
Visitor Center to the Fort Johnston Garrison.
Ms. Joan Willey, 111 Ft. Johnston Place and Ms. Dora Loflin, 410 Bay Street,
spoke in opposition to removing the tennis courts and playground.
IV.   Questions
Mayor Howard opened the floor for questions.
Ms. Rogers asked if the contract between the City and Department of Defense was
flexible and if the City was obligated to put the Visitor Center in the
Garrison. Alderman Boguskie advised the contract is flexible as long as the
building is used for public use.
Ms. Rogers asked if a mold study had been performed in the building. The Mayor
responded the Citys insurance company commissioned an air quality study, no
major problems were found, it is not unhealthy, and it was determined having
the building closed up perpetuated the growth of mold.
It was asked if the cost had been determined for renovations to the Garrison
for use as a visitor center. Alderman Frink stated a 2009 estimate was $25,000
- $30,000 but the cost would depend on the actual renovations undertaken.
It was asked if there were plans for the current building housing the Visitor
Center. Mayor Howard indicated no plans had been made for the building.
V.   Board Comments
Alderman Boguskie pointed out the 200 year old Garrison had been altered
several times, only the interior can be changed, and the outer walls are
considered historical.
Alderman Frink and Alderman Karn discussed the Fort Johnston Committee
considerations and deliberations made to reach a recommendation for use of the
Garrison.
Alderman Frink pointed out the new Maritime Museum, located adjacent to the
Garrison, has become the most centralized place in Southport.
Alderman Boguskie pointed out the City has owned the property for five years,
he suggested establishing an advisory committee, the U.S. Parks Service wants
the property used for the general public and he did not want the Garrison to be
solely a visitor center.
Alderman Poole discussed the importance Fort Johnston has played to the
military in the area and suggested creating a Friends of Fort Johnston group.
She agreed with Alderman Boguskie and recommended further discussions with the
public and visitor center volunteers.
Alderman Potter expressed her opinion the Committee and former Board had spent
a great deal of time and effort addressing the issue and she was in favor of
using the Garrison as a visitor center.
Alderman Karn expressed his hope the preservation of the historical aspects of
the Garrison and the Visitor Center can work hand in hand, the volunteers will
be an integral part of the process, an interactive video room will be
established and security issues addressed.
Mayor Howard expressed his concerns the public did not want to move the Visitor
Center, remove the tennis courts and playground, a historical use for the
Garrison had not been reached and the public had not been assured a viable plan
for the use of the Garrison had been met.
Alderman Adams commended the committee for addressing a controversial issue.
Alderman Adams motioned, seconded by Alderman Potter to accept the
recommendation of the Fort Johnston Committee to move the Visitor Center into
the Garrison, develop a parking lot where the tennis court is located and move
the playground.
Ayes:   Aldermen Adams, Potter, Frink & Karn
Nay:   Aldermen Boguskie & Poole
Motion Passed 4-2
Adjournment
Alderman Boguskie motioned, seconded by Alderman Adams to adjourn the meeting
at 8:14 p.m. Unanimous Vote
_____________________________
Mayor
______________________________   
Clerk
SEPTEMBER 8, 2011
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN             REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
SEPTEMBER 8, 2011             6:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS (CITY HALL) SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Ed Boguskie, Nelson Adams, Ken Karn,
         Mary Ellen Poole, Jwantana Frink, Vickie Potter
STAFF PRESENT:   Regina W. Alexander, Interim City Manager/MMC-City Clerk
         Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
         Michele Windham, Deputy Clerk
         Amy Nelson, Planning Director
         Patty Miller, Finance Director
         Jerry Dove, Police Chief
         Neal Sage, Rescue Squad Chief
         Greg Cumbee, Fire Chief
         Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
         Cindy Brochure, Tourism & Economic Development Director
I.   Call to Order - 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
A moment of silence was held in observance of 9/11.
II.   Invocation
Alderman Boguskie welcomed citizens and pronounced the invocation.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Howard stated if any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.
III.   Approval of Minutes
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Frink to approve two sets of
minutes. Unanimous vote.
1.   August 11, 2011 Regular Meeting Minutes
2.   August 22, 2011 Special Meeting Minutes
IV.   Approval of Agenda
Alderman Poole requested New Business Item VIII (k) be removed Mayor Howard
requested addition of discussion about City Hall renovation to Item IX Other
Business.
Alderman Adams moved, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to approve the agenda as
amended. Unanimous vote.
V.   Public Comments
There was no public comment.
VI.   Committee Reports
a)   Traffic & Transportation
Alderman Boguskie reported the Traffic & Transportation Committee met September
7, 2011. They discussed:
∙   Moving forward with paving the Caswell Avenue extension to 8 th Street,
utilizing Powell Bill funds.
∙   Completion of sidewalk installation on Rhett & Bay Streets
∙   Handicap ramps and crosswalks on Howe Street. Request made to North
Carolina Department of Transportation (NCDOT) for new crosswalks on Howe Street
at Nash and W. West Streets. NCDOT to conduct a pedestrian and traffic count at
the locations.
∙   Request from a resident of Yaupon Drive Extension to gravel the road in
front of her house.
b)   Tourism
Alderman Boguskie reported the Tourism Committee had not met.
c)   Water & Sewer
Alderman Boguskie reported:
The two men on call Friday, August 26 th were David Fox and Sam Fridley. They
remained in Southport until midnight. Both men returned to their duties at 6:00
AM on Saturday, August 27 th . This was during Southports encounter with
tropical storm Irene. These two employees answered many calls during this time:
4 high alarms at the central pump station, 6 other high alarms at the various
pump stations, 15 checks on the generators that take over at our pump stations
when power is out, they answered calls from the SPVFD asking for assistance
with our backhoe Saturday, August 27 th , and 2 high water alarms at the W.
West Street and Central pump stations. Our Water/Sewer department did their job
and then helped with the clean-up.
d)   Fort Johnston
Alderman Frink reported the Fort Johnston Committee would be meeting in the
near future.
e)   Beautification
Alderman Potter noted the Beautification Committee has an item on the agenda.
 f)   Alderman Poole reported:
Shop To the Beat continues to move forward with excitement.
On August 15, a Shop to the Beat Stakeholders Meeting was held with large
attendance by our participating merchants. Ms. Janis Mueller, Small Business
Counselor with UNC-Wilmington was the guest speaker and discussed her informal
survey findings. Merchants were encouraged to use the Small Business Technology
Development Center for free business assistance. The agreed outcome was that
the:
a.   A 2012 Shop to the Beat will be held.
b.   Dates will be May 18 - September 21
c.   Days will be the third Friday of every month
d.   Hours will be from 5 pm - 8 pm
It is noted that Mayor Howard was thanked for attending the meeting and the
support from the City of Southport was acknowledged.
VII.   Departmental Reports (Included in agenda packet)
Ms. Nelson presented two (2) options from NCDOT for reconfiguration of the
intersection at St. Rt. 87/211, a double lane roundabout versus a signalized
intersection. She pointed out that the Southport Beautification Committee had
endorsed a roundabout in order to create a dramatic entrance into Southport and
that NCDOT wants an opinion from the Board on which option they would prefer.
Ms. Nelson cited an FAA report that multi-lane roundabouts have multiple
threats, i.e., higher speeds, sound masking, sight limitations, etc. Board
consensus to defer an opinion until further information from NCDOT can be
obtained. Ms. Nelson to contact NCDOT and arrange a demonstration of a traffic
simulator.
VIII.   New Business
a)   U.S. Army Corp of Engineers, Jason Glazener
Consideration of options to protect the pump station located at the end of Bay
& Lord Streets
Mr. Jason Glazener, U.S. Army Corp of Engineers provided a handout of two (2)
options to protect the Bay Street pump station from further shoreline erosion.
Option 1:   Sloping Rock Revetment
∙   Would replace the existing concrete rubble
∙   Would be roughly in the same footprint
∙   Meets objective of protection
∙   Does not protect beach in front of revetment
∙   Federally preferred plan
∙   Cost: $ 480,000; 65% Fed/ 35% City
Option 2:   Offshore Stone Sill
∙   Would be 20 yards offshore, mostly submerged
∙   Would be several hundred feet in length
∙   Would closely resemble the offshore sills near Kingsley Park
∙   Provides aquatic habitat
∙   Better preservation of beach behind sill
∙   Preferred by environmental agencies
∙   Cost: $ 710,000; 65% Fed/ 35% City
Mr. Glazener informed the Board that due to budget cuts, Federal funding for
Section 14 projects nationwide will be pulled at the end of September. The cut
will place the Southport project on hold until more funding becomes available.
Mr. Glazener discussed the work completed to date on the project and the
remaining work to complete the study.
Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Potter to accept Option 1, Sloping
Rock Revetment as the preferred option. Unanimous vote.
b)   Mr. John Jones, Chairman of Building & Ground Committee, Brunswick
Community College - Update on the Lord Street Property
Mr. John Jones, Brunswick Community College Trustee, expressed the views of the
Brunswick Community College Board of Trustees regarding the opening of Caswell
Avenue between Owens and 8 th Streets. He advised that the College Board voted
not to bid the project until the status of the street was known. Mr. Jones
contended the College Board would not have chosen the Lord Street site had they
known Caswell Avenue was to be opened through their property affecting future
plans for expansion, safety of students and adequate room for retention ponds.
He requested the Board consider providing parking spaces, safety bumps in the
road and address storm drainage issues. It was noted by the City Attorney that
the City has a right-of-way through the property.
c)   Consideration of Brunswick Community College/Caswell Avenue Proposal
Board consensus to address the Brunswick Community College Proposal during a
workshop.
d)   Presentation on Offshore Wind Energy Briefing for Coastal Communities
Ms. Sarah King and Carina Barnett-Loro, gave a presentation on offshore wind
energy on behalf of the NC Sierra Club emphasizing North Carolinas remarkable
position for development of wind energy, federal and statewide interest,
potential to create a large number of jobs with associated manufacturing, and
the creation of a North Carolina Governors task force of local, state, federal
and tribal members to determine the most advantageous places to build.
Answering questions from the Board, Ms. Barnett-Loro indicated turbines would
be located 15 to 25 miles offshore, support from citizens and local
municipalities is critical, the turbines would automatically shut down during a
hurricane, and power generated would be sold.
e)   Presentation on pedestrian enhancements (called a bulb out or curb
extension, and pedestrian refuge)
Ms. Nelson made a presentation depicting bulb out curb extensions and
pedestrian refuge areas to improve handicap accessibility, pedestrian safety,
visibility of pedestrians, slower vehicle speeds, shorter crossing distance,
and areas for landscaping. Ms. Nelson and Alderman Boguskie spoke about
discussions held with the North Carolina Department of Transportation (NCDOT)
regarding installation of a pedestrian refuge on E. Moore Street between City
Hall and the Southport Maritime Museum. Board consensus the enhancements should
be pursued.
f)   Consideration of Appointments to the Beautification Committee
Ms. Cheryl Daniels addressed the Board with a recommendation from the
Beautification Committee for appointment of two applicants to the Committee and
a request for removal of the rolling trash cans at Waterfront Park.
Alderman Potter moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to appoint Mary Friend and
Jan Trivett to the Southport Beautification Committee to fill vacancies with 7/
2012 term expiration. Unanimous vote.
City staff to address Waterfront Park request.
g)   Consideration of Budget Amendments
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to accept Budget Amendments
#1 & 2. Unanimous vote.
Budget Amendment #1
Fiscal Year 2011-2012
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session September 8, 2011, that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for:
1)   Funding the purchase of two (2) police vehicles instead of a three year
installment purchase as approved by the Board on July 14, 2011
2)   Transferring funding from one Department line item to another, as
requested by Interim Manager, Regina Alexander.
General Fund
      Budget   Budget As
      Amendment   Amended
Section I
A.   Revenues Anticipated
Fund Balance Appropriated   $ 27,375
         $ 4,904,595
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
Police Department
Capital Outlay-Vehicles   $ 27,375
Parks & Rec.
Department Supplies    (2000)
Buildings & Grounds
Department Supplies    2000
         $ 4,904,595
ADOPTED this the 8 th day of August, 2011
/s/ Robert D. Howard
Mayor
Attest: Regina W. Alexander, MMC
      Clerk
Budget Amendment #2
Fiscal Year 2010-2011
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session August 8, 2011, that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for:
1)   Funding Professional Fees for joining seven other North Carolina
communities in hiring legal counsel and a consultant to review the merger of
Duke Energy and Progress Energy to determine if the cities would benefit or be
harmed by the merger and to authorized expenditure up to $12,500 to participate
in this process as approved by the Board on April 14, 2011.
Electric Fund
      Budget   Budget As
      Amendment   Amended
Section IV
A.   Revenues Anticipated
Fund Balance Appropriated   $ 12,500   $ 7,302,500
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
Professional Fees   $ 12,500   $ 7,302,500
ADOPTED this the 8 th day of August, 2011
/s/ Robert D. Howard
Mayor
Attest:   Regina W. Alexander, MMC
   Clerk
h)   Consideration of City Personnel Policy Update
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to ask the City Manager to
finalize the Personnel Policy with recommendations from Board members and staff
and present the final policy to the Board during a workshop. Unanimous vote.
i)   Consideration of Proclamation in Recognition of the 10th Anniversary of 9/
11 As a National Day of Service and Remembrance
Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Frink to approve the proclamation as
presented. Unanimous vote.
Proclamation Recognizing
The 10th Anniversary of 9/11 As A National Day of Service and Remembrance
On September 11, 2001, the security of our nation was shattered by cowardly
terrorist attacks that killed nearly 3,000 innocent people at the World Trade
Center towers in New York City, the United States Pentagon, and in the pristine
fields of Shanksville, Pennsylvania. The terrorists goal was to strike a
powerful blow to the hearts of all Americans and tear at the fabric of our
nation. As a result of this tragedy, came a remarkable spirit of unity,
compassion and determination that will never be forgotten, just as we will
never forget those who were lost and injured and the people who rose in service
during the rescue and recovery effort and in defense of our nation at home and
abroad.
In observance of the 10 th anniversary of September 11, 2001 which killed
citizens from 92 countries, we hereby adopt the following Proclamation in
tribute to those lost and injured and the many who gave of themselves in
service to their communities and to American in the aftermath of the attacks:
WHEREAS, people of all ages and walks of life across America and around the
world, collectively witnessed an event of immense tragedy on September 11,
2001; and
WHEREAS, the events of that day instantly transformed everyones lives, some
through personal loss, and many others through an unfamiliar sense of
individual and national vulnerability; and
WHEREAS, Americans arose from the shock, unifying the country in national
spirit, pride, selflessness, generosity, courage and service; and
WHEREAS, many brace people tirelessly and courageously participated in an
extraordinarily difficult and dangerous rescue and recovery effort, and
WHEREAS, September 11 th should never be just another day in the hearts and
minds of all American; and
WHEREAS, September 11, 2011 will be the 10 th anniversary of the 9/11 attacks
on America;
WHEREAS, many citizens may wish to memorialize September 11 by engaging in, or
making a plan to engage in personal and individual acts of community service,
or giving activities, as part of a solemn day of remembrance and tribute; and
WHEREAS, on March 19, 2009, the United States Congress passed legislation
authorizing the establishment of September 11 as a federally recognized
National Day of Service and Remembrance, which was signed into law by President
Barrack Obama on April 21, 2009; and
WHEREAS, President Obama on September 11, 2009, issued the Patriot Day
Proclamation officially designating September 11 as a National Day of Service
and Remembrance, and calling upon all interested Americans to participate in
this observance through moments of silence, flying the flag of the United
States at half-staff, as well as community service and charitable activities as
a tribute to these victims.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the City of Southport asks all citizens to
observe September 11, 2011 and mark the 10 th Anniversary of 9/11, as a
Voluntary Day of Service and Remembrance by all citizens and organizations.
ADOPTED, this the 8 th day of September, 2011
/s/ Robert D. Howard
Mayor
ATTEST:  /s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
      Clerk
j)   Consideration of Proclamation for 2011 Lyme Disease Awareness Month
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to adopt the Proclamation
for 2011 Lyme Disease Awareness Month. Unanimous vote.
Proclamation for 2011 Lyme Disease Awareness Month
WHEREAS, infected ticks carrying the bacteria, borrelia burgdorferi which
causes Lyme disease, continue to spread throughout North Carolina; and
WHEREAS, the total numbers of both suspected and confirmed Lyme disease cases
reported to our state health department, co0ntinues to rise each year with over
nearly 900 case events reported in 2010. Additionally, the Center for Disease
Control estimates that Lyme disease may be under-reported by a factor 10 to 1
over actual cases, and
WHEREAS, the North Carolina Division of Public Health now encourages physicians
and health care professionals to consider the diagnosis of Lyme disease in
patients who present the symptoms of infections, even if the patient has no
travel history outside of North Carolina; and
WHEREAS, Lyme disease is difficult to diagnose because it imitates other
conditions and no reliable laboratory test can prove who is either infected or
bacterial-free, which often leads to under-diagnosis or misdiagnosis; and
WHEREAS, early indicators of infection include flu-like symptoms, characterized
by chills, headache, fatigue, muscle and joint aches and swollen lymph nodes;
and
WHEREAS, weeks or months later, patients with untreated or under-treated Lyme
disease can suffer from permanent and sometimes life-threatening damage to the
brain, joints, heart, eyes, liver, spleen blood vessels and kidneys. For this
reason it is imperative that all who may be exposed by Lyme disease receive
immediate treatment; and
WHEREAS, the best solution to reduce the risk of contracting Lyme disease is
awareness and education about the seriousness of the illness and the need for
residents, especially children, to practice personal preventive techniques when
engaging in outdoor activities - such as frequent tick checks, use of tick
repellant and proper removal; and
WHEREAS, the warm summer months are considered the most active time for ticks
and when the majority of residents are exposed to ticks during outdoor
activities.
Adopted this the 8th day of September, 2011.
/s/ Robert D. Howard
Mayor
ATTEST:   /s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
      Clerk
k)   Consideration to accept a 1989 34 ft. Lee S. Wilbur & Co Cruiser with
flying bridge
Item removed from the agenda.
l)   Consideration of a request from the Southport ABC Board to authorize the
use of the Citys Travel Reimbursement Policy which is required by the State.
Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Potter to authorize the use of the
Citys Travel Reimbursement Policy by the Southport ABC Board. Unanimous vote.
IX.   Other Business
The Board discussed the City Hall renovation project. The Mayor and City
Manager recommended moving forward on the project with the assistance of city
employee Connie Keller, an architect by profession with the qualifications and
capabilities to prepare the scope of work. Alderman Poole moved, seconded by
Alderman Karn to move forward with the City Hall renovation project scope as
discussed. Unanimous vote.
Alderman Potter recommended advertising for a new City Manager. Forming a
committee, developing a position profile and involving the public in the
process was discussed.
A workshop was scheduled for Monday, September 26, 9:00 a.m. for the purpose of
consideration of the City Manager Position and the Personnel Policy.
X.   City Manager Comments
Manager Alexander announced that Parks and Recreation Department employees are
mowing the right-of-ways.
XI.   Board Comments
Alderman Adams commended City staff on the clean up after Hurricane Irene. He
asked about the odor at the Burrington Avenue Lift Station. Options to control
the odor to be considered at the next regularly scheduled meeting.
XII.   Adjournment
Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Frink to adjourn the meeting at 8:42
p.m. Unanimous vote.
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard
                     Mayor
____________________________
      Clerk
SEPTEMBER 26, 2011
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN             WORKSHOP MEETING MINUTES
SEPTEMBER 26, 2011            9:00 A.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS (CITY HALL) SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
WORKSHOP MEETING MINUTES
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Ed Boguskie, Nelson Adams, Mary Ellen Poole,
         Vickie Potter, Ken Karn
ABSENT:      Jwantana Frink
STAFF PRESENT:   Regina W. Alexander, Interim City Manager/MMC-City Clerk
         Michele Windham, Deputy Clerk
         Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
I.   Call to Order - 9:23 a.m.
Mayor Howard called the workshop to order at 9:23 a.m.
II.   Invocation
Alderman Boguskie welcomed citizens and pronounced the invocation.
III.   Closed Session: 9:25 a.m. 
Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Potter to go into closed session to
confer with the City Attorney regarding the satellite campus for Brunswick
Community College and the opening of Caswell Avenue between Owens and 8 th
Streets. Unanimous vote.
Regular Session Reconvened - 10:20 a.m.
Alderman Adams moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to return to regular session.
Unanimous vote. Mayor Howard advised that no action was taken during the closed
session by the Board.
IV.   City Manager Position
For Board consideration, Alderman Poole presented the following documentation:
∙   City Manager Selection Timeline
Listing of start/completion date of specific tasks in the process of selecting
a City Manager.
∙   City Manager Position Profile
Outline of Southport, its economy, government and the desired traits and
characteristics of a successful candidate.
∙   City Manager Position Description
Details of the position, educational qualifications, essential duties and
responsibilities.
Alderman Poole suggested creating a City Manager Selection Committee (CMSC)
representing different segments of the community; business, medical,
educational, clergy, civic group, etc. The Board reviewed the documents in
depth, made revisions and agreed to consider appointment of a City Manager
Selection Committee at their next regularly scheduled meeting.
Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Potter to initiate the process as
outlined on the City Manager Selection TimeLine as presented by Alderman Poole.
Unanimous Vote.
V.   Personnel Policy Review
The Board reviewed proposed revisions and made additional modifications to the
Personnel Policy with the assistance of Chris May, Cape Fear Council of
Government. A final draft of the policy to be provided for further
consideration at the next regularly scheduled meeting.
VI.   Adjournment
Alderman Boguskie motioned, seconded by Alderman Potter to adjourn the meeting
at 12:33 p.m. Unanimous Vote
_____________________________
Mayor
______________________________   
Clerk
OCTOBER 13, 2011
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN            REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
OCTOBER 13, 2011             6:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS(CITY HALL) SOUTHPORT, N. C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Ed Boguskie, Ken Karn, Vickie Potter,
         Mary Ellen Poole, Jwantana Frink
ABSENT:      Nelson Adams (arrived 7:31 pm)
STAFF PRESENT:   Regina W. Alexander, Interim City Manager/MMC-City Clerk
         Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
         Michele Windham, Deputy Clerk
         Amy Nelson, Planning Director
         Patty Miller, Finance Director
         Jerry Dove, Police Chief
         Neal Sage, Rescue Squad Chief
         Greg Cumbee, Fire Chief
         Cindy Brochure, Tourism & Economic Development Director
I.   Call to Order - 6:15 p.m.
Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:15 p.m.
II.   Invocation
Alderman Karn welcomed citizens and pronounced the invocation.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Howard stated if any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.
III.   Approval of Minutes
Alderman Boguskie motioned, seconded by Alderman Karn to approve two sets of
minutes. Motion passed 5-0.
1.   September 8, 2011 Regular Meeting Minutes
2.   September 26, 2011 Workshop Meeting Minutes
IV.   Approval of Agenda
Mayor Howard requested addition of a closed session to confer with the City
Attorney regarding the Southeast Brunswick Sanitary District lawsuit.
Mayor Howard requested addition of a Resolution in Support of Vision Awareness
Month.
Mayor Howard requested consideration of a meter reading and service
disconnection agreement between Brunswick County and the City during Committee
Reports.
Alderman Boguskie motioned, seconded by Alderman Poole to approve the agenda as
amended. Motion passed 5-0.
V.   Public Comments
Rescue Chief, Neal Sage, announced a fund raising partnership with the Rotary
Club of Southport. The sell of fruit continues through November 6, 2011.
Chief Sage stated installation of the new sign at the Rescue and EMS
Headquarters was complete.
Ms. Shirley Wilson, 502 Brunswick Street, thanked the Police Department for
officer Thomas Moores handling of an incident at the Visitors Center.
Code Enforcement Officer, Charles Drew, announced National Fire Prevention
Week, October 9 through 15 and reminded citizens to check their homes for fire
and safety hazards and to change the batteries in their smoke detectors.
Alderman Poole commended Fire Department personnel for the many Fire Prevention
Week presentations made at local schools, nursing homes and at Military Ocean
Terminal Sunny Point.
Ms. Bonnie Thomas, 5122 Prices Creek Drive, member of the Southport Womans Club
talked about the clubs history with the community building and the annual
Southport schools arts festival. She pointed out that the City has co-sponsored
the event in the past and she asked for the rental fee for use of the community
building to be waived.
Ms. Emily Humphreys, 204 E. 8th Street, spoke in support of the proposed
Unified Development Ordinance Sign Article text amendment.
Alderman Karn motioned to adopt a resolution proclaiming October as Vision
Awareness Month. Motion seconded by Alderman Boguskie. Motion passed 5-0.  The
resolution was presented by Mayor Howard, Aldermen Boguskie and Karn to Lions
Club president Dawson Price.
Vision Awareness Month Proclamation
Southport Lions Club
WHEREAS, the Southport Lions Club is working to increase vision awareness,
especially among the youth through vision screening at local schools; and
WHEREAS, the Southport Lions Club collected over 1,500 pairs of glasses in the
past twelve months and provides assistance to those needing but unable to
afford eye tests and the purchase of glasses; and
WHEREAS, the Southport Lions Club will conduct vision screening once a month,
September through December at the Brunswick County Resource Center and
conducted screenings at the Brunswick County Health Festival on September 17th
and 18th ; and
WHEREAS, the Southport Lions Club works in conjunction to support vision
screening with the New Hope Clinic that provides free health care to uninsured
citizens; and
WHEREAS, the Southport Lions Club, continues to keep with the challenge Helen
Keller issued to the association in 1929, to become knights of the blind in the
crusade against darkness; and
WHEREAS, the Southport Lions Club, established in 1945, is composed of men and
women volunteers who dedicate their time to the betterment of our community and
aiding those in need; and
NOW THEREFORE, I, Robert Howard, Mayor of the City of Southport, NC in
recognition of this important service, sponsored by the Southport Lions Club,
do hereby proclaim October as Vision Awareness Month.
ADOPTED, this 13th day of October 2011 by the Southport Board of Aldermen.
/s/ Robert D. Howard
Mayor
Attest: /s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
      Clerk
VI.   Committee Reports
a)   Fort Johnston
Tourism and Economic Development Director Cindy Brochure reported the Fort
Johnston committee had met with parties involved in relocating the visitor
center. All parties were in agreement on the plan being developed. Final plans
for the relocation will be presented to the Board at their November meeting.
b)   Electric
Alderman Karn reported the Electric Committee met October 6 and discussed:
∙   Combination of Electric Committee and Water/Sewer Committee into Utility
Committee
∙   ElectriCities projects a rate increase of 2.6% in 2014
∙   Due to healthy fund balance, may be possible to accelerate the pole
replacement process.
∙   Rate normalization a goal; one rate and credit issued for load management
devises.
∙   Recommend simplifying bills by incorporating fuel adjustment charge into
electric rate.
Alderman Karn motioned, seconded by Alderman Poole to direct staff to
incorporate the current fuel adjustment charge, $0.186/per kilowatt hour, into
the base rate calculation for all electric customers, effective October 1,
2011. Motion passed 5-0.
c)   Shop to the Beat
Alderman Poole reported Shop to the Beat had ended for the year but would
continue in 2012 on the third Fridays of each month with businesses open until
8:00 p.m. A listing of talent participating in the event will be compiled.
Mayor Howard and Alderman Poole thanked the participating merchants and
entertainers.
d)   Beautification
Ms. Marjorie Jones, member of the Beautification Committee, presented a
recommendation to relocate large events held at Franklin Square Park to another
location and to develop a plan to protect and enhance the park. Board consensus
the park needed attention. The Board directed the Beautification Committee to
coordinate with the City Parks and Recreation Department, each event organizer
and other involved groups to prepare a recommendation to the Board of Aldermen
for a relocation site.
At the request of Alderman Potter, Ms. Cheryl Daniels, member of the
Beautification Committee, made a presentation for a proposed Southport Maritime
Memorial to be located at the foot of Howe Street consisting of an large inlaid
compass rose, 35 - 40' nautical flagpole, ships anchor, brick bench, bronze
plaques and memorial brick pavers. A substantial donation has been made,
memorial bricks will be sold, and Downtown Southport, Inc (DSI) has agreed to
facilitate the project. On behalf of the Beautification Committee, Ms. Daniels
requested permission to do the memorial and to have drawings of the memorial,
along with a comment sheet, made available in City Hall for public input. Board
consensus to refer the request to a public hearing by the Planning Board. (Plan
on file in the Clerks office)
e)   Water/Sewer Committee
Alderman Boguskie reported the committee met September 29 and discussed:
∙   Odor and Corrosion Control of the Central Pump Station, Burrington Avenue
Alderman Boguskie pointed out that the City and the County do not have a means
to disconnect service in the event of a failure of a customer to pay for water
and/or sewer services in the Rivermist Subdivision. Alderman Boguskie moved,
seconded by Alderman Karn to accept the Meter Reading and Service Disconnection
Agreement for Rivermist Subdivision with Brunswick County. Unanimous vote.
(Agreement on file in Clerks office)
VII.   Departmental Reports (Included in agenda packet)
Alderman Poole motioned, seconded by Alderman Potter to accept the departmental
reports as presented. Motion passed 5-0.
VIII.   New Business
a)   Report on Central Pump Station Odor and Corrosion Control
Public Services Director, Mr. Ralph Cardwell and Carter Hubard, W.K. Dickson
Community Infrastructure Consultants, spoke to the Board about the Burrington
Avenue Central pump station corrosion and odor associated with sulfides or
hydrogen sulfide. Mr. Hubard reviewed a recommendation made August 20, 2010 for
odor and corrosion control options. He discussed those recommended items that
have been completed; wet well lining, rehabilitation of stations and an odor
masking system.
Mr. Jim Powell, 6010 Spikerush Trail, presented an alternative odor control
option estimated to cost $2,050 per month that has been utilized by Greensboro,
North Carolina and Myrtle Beach, South Carolina and suggested to him by a
former public works director for Greensboro.
Alderman Adams Arrived - 7:31 p.m.
b)   Consideration of Adopting the City of Southports Personnel Policy Update
Mr. Chris May of the Council of Government presented the updated Personnel
Policy incorporating all State and Federal law changes. The Board discussed the
grievance procedure and reviewed the organizational chart. Alderman Poole
motioned, seconded by Alderman Karn to adopt the Personnel Policy as presented.
Motion passed 6-0.
c)   Consideration of Approval for Budget amendments # 3, 4, 5, 6
Alderman Boguskie motioned seconded by Alderman Frink to accept budget
amendments #3 through #6. Motion passed 6-0.
Budget Amendment # 3
Fiscal Year 2011-2012
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session October 13, 2011, that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for:
1)   Moving funding within departmental line items. (See below for details)
There will be no change in total fund budget with this amendment.
General Fund
                  Budget      Budget As
                  Amendment   Amended
Section I
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
(See Below)
ADOPTED this the 13th day of October, 2011
/s/ Robert D. Howard
Mayor
Attest: /s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
      Clerk
DEPARTMENT      DESCRIPTION         INCREASE      DECREASE
ADMINISTRATION      INSURANCE & BONDING       2000
BUILDINGS         PROPERTY FIRE FEES       580
INSURANCE & BONDING             1000
REPAIR & MAINT. FACILITIES             580
CITY GARAGE         SALARY             3500
INSURANCE & BONDING             600
STREET         SALARY                   3500
POLICE DEPT.      INSURANCE & BONDING             400
CAPITAL VEHICLES         15799
LEASE PAYMENTS               15799
ASSETS PURCHASE <$5000              1400
CAPITAL EQUIPMENT          1400
TOURISM         INSURANCE & BONDING CB          250
INSURANCE & BONDING VC               400
CONTRACT SERVICES       150
TOTAL      23679      23679
Budget Amendment # 4
Fiscal Year 2010-2011
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session October 13, 2011, that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for:
1)   Transferring funds within departmental lines items. There will be no
change in total fund budget with this amendment.
Electric Fund
Budget      Budget As
Amendment   Amended
Section IV
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
Rebates paid direct         $ 1000
Insurance & Bonding         ($1000)
ADOPTED this the 13th day of October, 2011
/s/ Robert D. Howard
Mayor
Attest: /s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
      Clerk
Budget Amendment # 5
Fiscal Year 2010-2011
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session October 13, 2011, that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for:
1)   Transferring funds within departmental lines items. There will be no
change in total fund budget with this amendment.
Water Sewer Fund
Budget      Budget As
Amendment   Amended
Section V
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
Insurance & Bonding         $ 1000
Contract Services         ($1000)
ADOPTED this the 13th day of October, 2011
/s/ Robert D. Howard
Mayor
Attest: /s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
      Clerk
Budget Amendment # 6
Fiscal Year 2010-2011
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of City of Southport in Board
assembled in regular session October 13, 2011, that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for:
1)   Appropriating fund balance for purchasing portable air compressor for
doing street repairs as adopted by Board on April 14, 2011.
Powell Bill
Budget      Budget As
Amendment   Amended
Section II
A.   Revenues Anticipated
Appropriated Fund Balance      $ 13,500
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
Capital Equipment         $ 13,500   $ 139,000
ADOPTED this the 13th day of October, 2011
/s/ Robert D. Howard
Mayor
Attest: /s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
      Clerk
In appreciation of her service to the City of Southport, Finance Director Ms.
Patty Miller was recognized and presented with a gift. Ms. Miller leaves her
post effective November 1, 2011.
Public Hearings
Alderman Poole motioned to enter Public Hearing, seconded by Alderman Potter,
the vote was unanimous. Motion passed 6-0
d)   Unified Development Ordinance Text Amendment, Article 2, Basic Definitions
and Interpretations
Ms. Amy Nelson, Planning Director, explained that the requested text amendment
to Article 2 will change the definition of what constitutes a minor subdivision
and will allow for staff approval of subdivisions that are five acres or less
in size. The text amendment has been recommended by the Planning Board. There
were no comments from the public.
e)   Public Hearing; Unified Development Ordinance Text Amendment, Article 17,
Regulations for Signs
Alderman Potter reported the Board had tasked the Planning Board with review
and revision of the Unified Development Ordinance Regulations for Signs.
Ms. Tish Hatem, Planning Board Chairman, reported the Planning Board, City
staff, merchants, and citizens held many work sessions to develop clear
guidelines for signs. She displayed a proposed Citizens Guide to Signs
brochure. Ms. Hatem stated the consensus among all involved found the revised
ordinance meets the citys needs. Ms. Hatem pointed out that many supportive
phone calls were received and several of the merchants and citizens were
present in the audience. She thanked Alderman Poole and Potter for their
guidance through the process and urged the Board to adopt the proposed
ordinance.
Ms. Martha Johnson, newest member of the Planning Board, shared her experience
researching various sign ordinances in order to contribute to the revision
process.
Mr. Jay Royal, local merchant, commended everyone involved and expressed
support of the proposed text amendment.
Mr. Buddy Barnes, Planning Board member, emphasized that everyone involved in
the sign regulations review process did their due diligence and over 300 hours
were spent in review committees.
No further comments from the public, Alderman Adams moved to re-enter regular
session, seconded by Alderman Potter. ( 8:19 p.m.) Motion passed 6-0.
Regular Session Reconvened
f)   Consideration of Resolution for text Amendment, Article 2, Basic
Definitions and Interpretations, Subdivision Definitions (332)
Alderman Potter motioned, seconded by Alderman Poole to adopt the Resolution
for Text Amendment, Article 2, Basic Definitions and Interpretations,
Subdivision Definitions (332). Motion passed 6-0.
RESOLUTION APPROVING TEXT AMENDMENT TO UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
THAT WHEREAS, the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance and other
land use ordinances that control land development within both the Citys
incorporated areas and within its extraterritorial area; and
WHEREAS, in order to promote the public health, safety and general welfare and
to promote the best interest of the city and community, it is necessary for the
Southport Board of Aldermen from time to time to consider appropriate
revisions, modifications and additions to the citys land use ordinances; and
WHEREAS, the Planning Director has prepared and submitted to the Planning Board
a proposed amendment to Article 2 of the Southport Unified Development
Ordinance at the request of the Planning Board; and
WHEREAS, the Planning Board has considered this matter and has recommended that
the proposed amendment to the Unified Development Ordinance be approved; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to NC General Statutes and city ordinances, a public hearing,
properly noticed, was held on October 13, 2011, where public comment was heard
and considered before the Board of Aldermen regarding this issue; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen hereby finds that this proposed amendment to the
Unified Development Ordinance is consistent with the Southport CAMA Core Land
Use Plan; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that this amendment is reasonable
and in the public interest in that (i) the aspect of minor subdivision is
sufficiently controlled by the size of the tract to be subdivided, (ii) this
amendment is necessary to promote orderly growth and development in the City of
Southport, and (iii) it is necessary to promote the public safety and general
welfare of the community by allowing staff to review minor subdivisions as
determined by the size of the tract, rather than the number of lots.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that the
attached amendment and addition to the Southport Unified Development Ordinance
is hereby approved and adopted.
This 13th day of October, 2011.      City of Southport
/s/ Robert D. Howard
Mayor
Attest: /s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
      Clerk
Article 2:   Basic Definitions and Interpretations
   Section 2-2: Definitions of Basic Terms
Amend:
(332) Subdivision, Minor. A minor subdivision is a tract to be
subdivided which is five (5) acres or less in size, and five or fewer
 lots result after subdivision.
(a)   all of which front s  on an existing approved street;
g)   Consideration of Resolution for Text Amendment, Unified Development
Ordinance Article 17, Regulations for Signs
Alderman Karn discussed concerns and expressed misgivings about off-premises
signs and the total number of signs allowed per business. Mayor Howard
suggested the Planning Board committee look at the total number of signs
permitted.
Alderman Potter motioned, seconded by Alderman Frink to accept the Resolution
for Text Amendment, Article 17, Regulations for Signs.
Ayes:       Aldermen Poole, Potter, Frink, Adams, Boguskie
Abstention:   Alderman Karn
Motion passed 6-0
Full text of amendment on file in the Clerks office.
RESOLUTION APPROVING TEXT AMENDMENT TO UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
THAT WHEREAS, the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance and other
land use ordinances that control land development within both the Citys
incorporated areas and within its extraterritorial area; and
WHEREAS, in order to promote the public health, safety and general welfare and
to promote the best interest of the city and community, it is necessary for the
Southport Board of Aldermen from time to time to consider appropriate
revisions, modifications and additions to the citys land use ordinances; and
WHEREAS, the Planning Board has considered these matters and has recommended
that these proposed amendments to Article 17 of the Unified Development
Ordinance be approved; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to NC General Statutes and city ordinances, a public hearing,
properly noticed, was held on October 13, 2011, before the Board of Aldermen
regarding these issues; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen hereby finds that these proposed amendments to
the Unified Development Ordinance are consistent with the Southport CAMA Core
Land Use Plan; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that these amendments are
reasonable and in the public interest in that (i) considering the current
economic situation, revisions to the City sign ordinance were necessary, (ii)
these amendments promote orderly growth and development in the City, and (iii)
regulation of signs is to promote the public safety and general welfare of the
community;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Southport Board of Aldermen that the
attached amendment and addition to the Southport Unified Development Ordinance
is hereby approved and adopted.
This 13th day of October, 2011.      City of Southport
/s/ Robert D. Howard
Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Regina W. Alexander
      Clerk
h)   Consideration of Resolution to Endorse the City of Southports Application
for the N.C. Department of Transportations Bicycle and Pedestrian Planning
Grant Initiative
Alderman Boguskie motioned, seconded by Alderman Adams to accept the Resolution
to Endorse the City of Southports Application for the N.C. Department of
Transportations Bicycle and Pedestrian Planning Grant Initiative. Motion passed
6-0.
RESOLUTION TO ENDORSE THE CITY OF SOUTHPORTS APPLICATION FOR THE NORTH CAROLINA
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATIONS BICYCLE AND PEDESTRIAN PLANNING GRANT INITIATIVE
WHEREAS on December 2, 2011, the NCDOT Division of Bicycle and Pedestrian
Transportation will conclude the 2012 Call for Proposals to encourage the
development of comprehensive municipal bicycle plans and pedestrian plans; and
WHEREAS the Bicycle and Pedestrian Planning Grant Initiative is a state program
set up for municipalities all across the state of North Carolina; and
WHEREAS the City of Southport has an opportunity to apply for this 80%-20%
matching grant program in 2012; and
WHEREAS there is a strong desire in the City of Southport to enhance the
transportation planning by providing more choices in order to make the
community more pedestrian-friendly, bicycle-friendly, and a better place to
live; and
BE IT THEREFORE RESOLVED that the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport,
North Carolina in session assembled this 13th day of October 2011 endorse the
NCDOT Division of Bicycle and Pedestrian Transportations Bicycle and Pedestrian
Planning Grant Initiative application for the City of Southport, North
Carolina.
Adopted this 13th day of October 2011.      City of Southport
/s/ Robert D. Howard
Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
      Clerk
i)   Consideration of Resolution to include Sidewalks and Bicycle Paths for the
City of Southport and its jurisdiction in the widening of NC 211
Alderman Karn motioned, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to approve the resolution
to include sidewalks and bicycle paths for the City of Southport and its
jurisdiction in the widening of NC 211. Motion passed 6-0.
RESOLUTION TO REQUEST THE INCLUSION OF SIDEWALKS AND BICYCLE PATHS FOR THE CITY
OF SOUTHPORT AND ITS JURISDICTION IN THE WIDENING OF NC 211
WHEREAS, the State of North Carolina is in the planning phase of the NC 211
corridor widening project and is seeking out input from locally effected
jurisdictions; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Board of Aldermen to protect its citizens and
provide for their health, safety and welfare, including in issues of
transportation; and
WHEREAS, there is a strong desire in the City of Southport to enhance the
transportation system by providing more choices in order to make the community
more pedestrian and bicycle friendly and a better place to live;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport hereby requests that the NCDOT include sidewalks and bike lanes in
its planning for the widening of NC 211 through the jurisdiction of the City of
Southport.
Adopted this 13th day of October , 2011.      City of Southport
/s/ Robert D. Howard
Mayor
ATTEST:  /s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
           Clerk
j)   Consideration of letter of Support for the Lower Cape Fear Consortium
Sustainable Communities Regional Planning Grant
Alderman Karn motioned, seconded by Alderman Frink to approve the letter of
support for the Lower Cape Fear Consortium Sustainable Communities Regional
Planning Grant.
Motion passed 6-0.
October 13, 2011
Mr. Jacob Vares
Sustainable Communities Grant Coordinator
Cape Fear Council of Governments
1480 Harbour Drive
Wilmington, North Carolina 28401
RE: Letter of Support for the Lower Cape Fear Consortium Sustainable
Communities Regional Planning Grant
The City of Southport has reviewed the goals of the above consortiums grant
proposal and hereby offers its support and encouragement for this regional
initiative. The six HUD sustainable principles for livability will provide an
excellent framework for building our sustainable region, enhancing economic
opportunity, and meeting the needs of all citizens future forward.
Sincerely,
/s/ Robert D. Howard
Mayor, City of Southport
Closed Session: 8:49
Alderman Poole motioned, seconded by Alderman Potter to go into Closed Session
for the purpose of conferring with the city attorney regarding the Southeast
Brunswick Sanitary District lawsuit.  Motion passed 6-0.
Regular Session Reconvened: 9:10 p.m.
Alderman Adams motioned, seconded by Alderman Karn to return to regular
session. Motion passed 6-0.
Mayor Howard reported the Board discussed with and gave direction to the
attorney for final settlement with Southeast Brunswick Sanitary District.
k)   Appointment of City Manager Selection Committee
Alderman Poole distributed copies of the job description, educational
qualifications, and essential duties and responsibilities for the City Manager
position as revised per workshop discussions. A public forum was scheduled for
Tuesday, October 18 at 6:00 p.m. to solicit input from citizens. Copies of the
requirements available in the City Clerks office.
Alderman Poole motioned, seconded by Alderman Potter to adopt the hiring
procedure, appoint the committee consisting of Aldermen Poole and Adams, Ralph
Parker, Tommy Harrellson and City Human Resources Technician, Teresa Parker.
Motion passed 6-0.
l)   Consideration of Bid Award for Ladder Truck for Southport Fire Department
Alderman Adams motioned, seconded by Alderman Frink to purchase a Spartan 4-
Door Tilt Cab, Formed Aluminum Body, Tandem Axle, 101' Rear Mount Steel Aerial
Platform fire truck through the Houston-Galveston Area Council (H-GAC) pursuant
to G.S. 143-129 (e)(3), the competitive bidding program, by paying $400,000
down and financing the balance through financing to be approved by the Board
upon receipt of financing proposals. Motion passed 6-0.       
IX.   Other Business
There was no other business.
X.   City Manager Comments
City Manager Alexander presented a Resolution of Designation of Applicant Agent
for the Division of Emergency Management, FEMA. Alderman Potter motioned,
seconded by Alderman Frink to adopt the resolution. Motion passed 6-0.
XI.   Board Comments
Alderman Karn asked about the status of sidewalk benches being provided by the
City. The issue to be considered at the next regularly scheduled meeting.
XII.   Adjournment
Alderman Boguskie motioned, seconded by Alderman Poole to adjourn the meeting
at 9:31 p.m. Motion passed 6-0.
________________________________
Mayor
____________________________
Clerk
NOVEMBER 10, 2011
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN            REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
NOVEMBER 10, 2011            6:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS(CITY HALL) SOUTHPORT, N. C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Ed Boguskie, Nelson Adams, Ken Karn,
         Mary Ellen Poole, Jwantana Frink
STAFF PRESENT:   Regina W. Alexander, Interim City Manager/MMC-City Clerk
         Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
         Michele Windham, Deputy Clerk
         Amy Nelson, Planning Director
         Neal Sage, Rescue Squad Chief
         Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
         Cindy Brochure, Tourism & Economic Development Director
I.   Call to Order - 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
II.   Invocation
Alderman Frink welcomed citizens. Pastor Charles Drew pronounced the
invocation.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Howard stated if any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.
III.   Approval of Minutes
Alderman Karn pointed out corrections to the October 13, 2011 minutes
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to approve the October 13,
2011 regular meeting minutes as amended and to approve the September 26 Closed
Session Minutes and October 13 Executive Session Minutes. Motion passed 5-0.
IV.   Approval of Agenda
Mayor Howard requested addition of New Business Item 11, Consideration of
Roundabout vs Signalized Intersection at NC 211 and NC 87
Alderman Frink requested the Fort Johnston committee report be included in New
Business Item 4.
Alderman Karn requested consideration of New Business Item V be postponed to
the 2012 annual Board Retreat.
Alderman Adams moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to approve the agenda as
amended. Motion passed 5-0.
V.   Public Comments
Ms. Kendall Crews, 215 Rive Drive, requested her comments be entered into the
public record:
I became concerned after reading the recently revealed August 20, 2010 report
from WK Dickson regarding levels of hydrogen sulfide at the Burrington Avenue
Central Pump Station and the potential of associated health risks with levels
that high. Research from many sources such as the CDC, EPA and the North
Carolina Division of Air Quality reveal that chronic exposure to relatively low
levels of hydrogen sulfide gas could pose health risks. My concern was for
residents living in that area who have frequently complained of a strong sewer
odor over the course of many months. I decided I would conduct a survey of the
residents in that area of the pump station regarding possible health complaints
and shared my intention to do so with a local physician who also holds a
Masters Degree in public health policy. He advised me to conduct the survey
over a large area for a more representative sample. I then visited the
residents in 15 homes within a three (3) block area of the pump station. Eight
(8) of the ten (10) residents within one block of the site reported symptoms
consistent with the exposure to hydrogen sulfide gas. There were various
complaints such as burning eyes, eyes infections requiring medical treatment,
throat irritation, persistent cough, skin lesions and breathing problems
requiring two (2) trips to the ER, sinus problems, lethargy and sleep
difficulty. In all cases the time frame reported for either initial onset or
worsening of these symptoms was starting or since this summer. When I reported
back to my physician advisor, he expressed deep concern at the concentration of
symptoms reported. I hope it is clear why my concern goes beyond that of a
nuance odor. As a citizen and a licensed registered nurse, I am compelled to
advocate for the welfare of my neighbors.
Dr. Joe Pat Hatem, Dosher Memorial Hospital physician, discussed the public
health risks associated with the central pump station. He supported Ms. Crews
comments and conducting of the survey. He thanked the Mayor for his efforts to
find a solution to the problem.
Ms. Irena Sedivy, 119 N. Davis Street, talked about her fears her home could be
damaged by an apparent dead Live Oak tree in the Citys right-of-way. City staff
and Forestry Committee to re-examine the condition of the tree.
VI.   Committee Reports
a)   Fort Johnston - moved to agenda Item IX 4) a)
b)   City Manager Committee
Alderman Poole reported the status of the search for a new City Manager:
∙   Position was advertised in numerous media outlets
∙   Cut off date for submittals; November 14
Alderman Poole suggested all members, including Aldermen-elect, review the
applications, rank in order of preference, and a special meeting be scheduled
for the Board to collectively review the applications.
c)   Website Committee
Alderman Karn reported on the status of the new City web site:
∙   Contacting each department to verify content wanted,
∙   Advising each department how to add content,
∙   Designated department personnel will be able to add quickly and easily to
the web page.
The greatest improvement with the new website is the ability of staff members
to easily add and modify content to their respective department pages, and add
events and meetings to the calendar, so that all information is timely and up-
to-date. This will ensure that the website helps each department meet their
goals, establish better communication with citizens & visitors, save staff time
in dealing with most of the information requests they receive, and keep our
citizens well informed about all city activity.
VII.   Departmental Reports (Included in agenda packet)
VIII.   Old Business
1)    Presentation of recommendation(s) for Central Pump Station
Carter Hubard, W.K. Dickson, and Public Service Director, Ralph Cardwell
reported:
A significant amount of FOG (fats, oil, grease) was observed throughout the
system. FOG in collection systems is typically from cooking oil and grease from
disposal of kitchen waste and food scraps in sink drains. The source of FOG is
liquefied animal fats and vegetable oils that are poured down the sink drains.
The liquefied fats and oils solidify in the system causing accumulation in
pipes, manholes, and pump station wet wells. The accumulation of the FOG
results in sewer line backups, manhole overflows, and limits venting. The
reduction in flow increased the retention time and presents conditions suitable
for condition H 2 S formation. FOG in wet wells creates an anaerobic condition
at the liquid surface and at the walls.
The heavy build up in the gravity sewers flowing to Bay Street and in the Bay
Street Pump Station indicates that commercial properties are a major
contributor of FOG. The FOG build-up in Park, Leonard, Cottage Point, and 9 th
Street pump stations which serve mainly residential areas indicates that
residences are also contributors.
Corrosion in the system is more severe where force main discharges into
manholes. The odor and H 2 S readings were higher at the Central pump station
in the afternoon. We reviewed pump station history log to check on any patterns
that may indicate why the odor increases in the afternoon but the results were
inconclusive.
A review of the pumping rates indicates force main retention times for The
Landing, Turtlewood, Deep Point, and Indigo pump stations more than 1 day in
the system. Reportedly there are 30 grinder stations in the system. Small
grinder type pump stations typically pump only once a day so they are prone to
create septic wastewater conditions.
A review of the pumping rates from Indigo pump station and 9 th Street pump
station indicate low velocity in the 10-inch force main (less than 2 ft/s). Low
velocity in the force main can lead to sediment build up that can result in
blockages and biological activity.
Recommendations
Immediate Recommendation Actions
1.   Monitor H 2 S with recording meter.
2.   Evaluate the H 2 S readings to inform the staff and neighborhood of the
environmental hazards.
3.   Increase enforcement of FOG ordinance by routine inspection of restaurants
and schools.
4.   Clean the gravity sewer by jetting and removing solids from manholes.
5.   Clean wet wells of trash and FOG.
6.   Clean wet well walls with pressure washer.
7.   Remove sealant from vent holes in manhole cover at Bay Street and Caswell
Avenue.
8.   Solicit bids from chemical suppliers for system additives to reduce odor
and corrosion in the Central Pump Station.
9.   Evaluate H 2 S readings to size an air scrubber.
Program Recommendations 
1.   Increase FOG education by a presentation to board and education program in
schools.
2.   Procure air scrubber for Central Pump station to reduce odor.
3.   Develop chemical additive performance contract.
4.   Develop maintenance program of the sewer system with video tracking of
areas cleaned.
5.   Update Sewer Use Ordinance.
6.   Increase the velocity in the 9 th Street force main to promote scour and
reduce retention time.
Staff will be installing H 2 S meters at the central pump station in the wet
well and at the vent to the outside. This will enable real time data collection
to ensure that levels do not exceed acceptable limits for public health and
odor concerns. It will also detect wet well levels of H 2 S consistent with
corrosion of the wet well walls and pump station machinery.
Complete report included as Attachment 1.
2)   Consideration of Brunswick Community College Response Letter
Attorney Isenberg reported Brunswick Community College (BCC) submitted
correspondence in response to the Citys September 29, 2011 letter of position
on eight (8) items relating to the BCC Lord Street Campus. BCC agreed to six
(6) of the eight (8) items. Mr. Isenberg noted that BCC requested permission to
make improvements within the right-of-way of Eighth street to accommodate
parking and an agreement with the City on the stormwater improvements.
Consensus of Board that parking will be phased in, one street side at a time,
and will not require a stormwater permit; the improvements to Eighth Street
will be considered by the Board when the school is operating and the need
arises.
IX.   New Business
1)   Consideration of a request from Frank & Nancy Marchetti for an easement to
utilize 25 feet in width from Bay Street to the River to access their home
Mr. Frank Marchetti and architect Richard Bandera explained the request for an
easement to access a ground floor garage of a new home to be built at Bay
Street, replacing a home destroyed by fire. Maps depicting the request were
provided by Mr. Marchetti. Planning Director, Ms. Nelson pointed out parking is
acceptable on the public right-of-way in historic districts where lot sizes are
small. She raised concerns about public access to the historic markers and
small pocket park abutting Mr. Marchettis property. Attorney Isenberg verified
the City owns a 33 foot tract of land and under the General Statutes an
easement can be granted but the City is not obligated to do so. Parks and
Recreation Director, Ms. Hemphill, stated the pocket park is not utilized for
events. Alderman Adams expressed his reservations and the potential to set
precedent. Mayor Howard advised Mr. Marchetti to submit a non-exclusive
easement request specifying the least amount of property needed to Attorney
Isenberg.
2)   Southport Historical Society
a)   Consideration of a proposal from the Southport Historical Society to
assure the maintenance of the historical cemeteries in the City of Southport
Musette Steck, 4435 Willow Moss Way, spoke about the Citys historical
cemeteries. On behalf of the Southport Historical Society, she asked for
permission to take over maintenance of all city cemeteries. Mayor Howard
requested the Historical Society submit a proposal for consideration at a
future date.
b)   Consideration of a request from the Historical Society to erect a
historical information sign near the Whittlers Bench which will tell the story
of the Whittlers Bench
Mr. Larry Maisel recounted the history of the Whittlers Bench from its origins
in the 1890's by local barber, Mr. Paxton Thorp, to provide a place of shade
for people gathering there. Mr. Maisel requested permission to develop and
purchase an informational sign explaining the Whittlers Bench history.
Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Adams to give the Historical Society
permission to erect a historical sign at the Whittlers Bench.
Motion passed 5-0.
3)   Consideration of renewal of the Meter reading Contract between the City of
Southport and Terrilyn Bassett
Alderman Adams moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to renew the contract with
Terrilyn Bassett to read electric and water meters for a period of one year for
a total cost of $48,913.58. Motion passed 5-0
4)   On the Road to Sustainable Tourism Presentation
a)   Fort Johnston Southport Museum and Visitors Center
Tourism and Economic Development Director, Ms. Cindy Brochure, made a
PowerPoint presentation of the proposed Ft. Johnston Southport Museum &
Visitors Center.
Board members expressed appreciation for the hard work of all involved.
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to approve the plan concept
and to direct staff to present a program and develop a budget. Motion passed 5
- 0.
A copy of the floor plan to be displayed in the first floor hallway of City
Hall for public review and comment.
b)   Consideration of Appointments to Tourism Development Authority
Item removed from agenda. To be addressed during the 2012 annual Board Retreat.
c)   Consideration of a Resolution Recognizing the Importance of the Lower Cape
Fear River, The Modern City of Southport and Fort Johnston in the War of 1812
Manager Alexander read into the record the Resolution Recognizing the
Importance of the Lower Cape Fear River, The Modern City of Southport and Fort
Johnston in the War of 1812.
Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to adopt the resolution as
presented. Motion passed 5-0 .
A RESOLUTION RECOGNIZING THE IMPORTANCE OF THE LOWER CAPE FEAR RIVER, THE
MODERN CITY OF SOUTHPORT AND FORT JOHNSTON IN THE WAR OF 1812.
WHEREAS, The North Carolina Department of Cultural Resources has established a
team of staff and citizen members to plan for the commemoration of the 200 th
anniversary of the War of 1812; and
WHEREAS, The North Carolina War of 1812 Bicentennial Committees mission is to
develop events, activities, and materials to educate the public about Americas
Second War for Independence and the role of North Carolina and North
Carolinians in that war;
and
WHEREAS, The lower Cape Fear River was of vital importance to the defense of
North Carolina in the War of 1812 and Fort Johnston, in modern Southport, North
Carolina, was one of two United States fortifications that guarded Eastern
North Carolina against British attack during the War of 1812; and
WHEREAS, Fort Johnston was the site of a large buildup of both United States
Army regular troops and North Carolina militia called up to defend the lower
Cape Fear River against British attack during the War of 1812; and
WHEREAS, The North Carolina War of 1812 Bicentennial Committee has sponsored a
committee to host a symposium and living history program on October 20, 2012
entitled The Lower Cape Fear in the War of 1812; made up of members from North
Carolina Division of State Historic Sites, the North Carolina Maritime Museum
at Southport, the Daughters of the War of 1812, Downtown Southport, Inc. and
Southport Tourism and Economic Development;
BE IT RESOLVED, The North Carolina War of 1812 Bicentennial Committee, the City
of Southport and the Lower Cape Fear War of 1812 Symposium Committee will
commemorate the importance of the lower Cape Fear River and Fort Johnston
during the War of 1812 with a week long commemoration from October 15-20, 2012;
ending with a symposium and living history program on the grounds of Fort
Johnston on October 20, 2012.
ADOPTED, this the 10 th day of November, 2011
/s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC, Clerk
5)   Discussion about the proper response to potential health emergencies: The
role of staff and elected officials
Alderman Karn discussed his concerns regarding the Central Pump Station and
possible related health issues. He suggested development by staff of a response
plan for a public health risk. Board consensus to address the issue at the 2012
annual Board Retreat.
6)   Consideration of a presentation from Alderman Poole on benches
Alderman Poole discussed citizens wishing to put benches on sidewalks in honor
of loved ones and the benefits of benches for businesses and visitors. She
stated she had gathered information from the Parks and Recreation Director and
the Planning Director and consideration of the City buying and maintaining
benches be placed on the January Board Retreat.   
7)   Consideration of one (1) Appointment/Reappointment to the ABC Board
Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to reappoint William A. Davis
to a three (3) year term on the City of Southport Alcoholic Beverage Control
Board.
Motion passed 5-0.
8)   Consideration of Resolution in Honor of Veterans Day, November 11, 2011
Mayor Howard read into the record the Resolution in Honor of Veterans Day,
November 11, 2011.
Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Frink to adopt the Resolution in
Honor of Veterans Day, 2011. Motion passed 5-0.
RESOLUTION
In Honor of Veterans Day 2011
WHEREAS , November 11, 2011 has been designated as Veterans Day to honor and
celebrate our veterans; and
WHEREAS, veterans deserve and merit our continued remembrance and appreciation
for the many sacrificed that they have made for freedom and the American way of
life; and
WHEREAS, our community extends gratitude to those veterans who have given so
much in the defense of freedom which we continue to enjoy; and
WHEREAS, the Mayor and Southport Board of Aldermen on this the 10th day of
November 2011, urge all citizens to join us in the reaffirmation of our
gratitude to the men and women who have served our country in the U.S. Armed
forces and to those who continues to serve faithfully in defense of the U.S.
States of America.
ADOPTED this the 10th day of November 2011.
/s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:  /s/ Regina W. Alexander, Clerk
Alderman Poole recognized those in attendance who had served the United States.
All joined in a round of applause.
9)   Consideration of Amending Contract Agreement with the Southport Art Museum
for the Robert Ruark Collection
Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to execute the amended
agreement with the Southport Art Museum as written. Motion passed 5-0
10)   Consideration of Resolution to Endorse the City of Southports First Urban
Forest Management Plan
Planning Director, Ms. Amy Nelson explained the benefits to be realized through
the Citys first Urban Forest Management Plan. (Plan on file in the Planning
Department)
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to accept the resolution.
Motion passed 5-0.
RESOLUTION TO ENDORSE THE CITY OF SOUTHPORTS FIRST URBAN FOREST MANAGEMENT PLAN
THAT WHEREAS in 2010 the City of Southport received a grant from the North
Carolina Division of Forest Resources and the USDA Forest Service, Southern
Region, for the Firewise and Urban Interface Forestry Grant Program to develop,
educate, enhance, implement, and support the Firewise and healthy forest
management concepts in wildland urban interface communities throughout North
Carolina; and
WHEREAS the development of a management plan was pursued in order to create a
safer and more pleasant urban environment, prepare for response to damages
before and after a storm, maintain and increase the Citys urban forest cover,
allow for the beginning of a program to manage the Citys trees and minimize
related hazards to life and property, establish measurable and long-term goals
and objectives; and
WHEREAS the resulting Urban Forest Management Plan will now be the basis for
preserving and protecting the trees of Southport that help give the City its
special character;
NOW, BE IT THEREFORE RESOLVED that the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport, North Carolina in session assembled this 10 th day of November 2011
endorse the City of Southports Urban Forest Management Plan.
Adopted this 10 th day of November 2011.
/s/ Robert D. Howard
Mayor
Attest: /s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
      Clerk
11)   Consideration of Roundabout vs Signalized Intersection at NC 211 and NC
87
Alderman Adams moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to adopt a resolution in
support of a signalized intersection. Motion passed 5-0.
RESOLUTION TO REQUEST SIGNAL OPTION OVER A ROUNDABOUT AT THE INTERSECTION OF NC
211 AND NC 87
WHEREAS, the State of North Carolina is in the planning phase of the NC 211
corridor widening project and is seeking out input from locally affected
jurisdictions; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Board of Aldermen to protect its citizens and
provide for their health, safety and welfare, including in issues of
transportation; and
WHEREAS, there is a strong desire in the City of Southport to remain with a
signalized intersection at NC 211 and NC 87, rather than redesigning the area
with a roundabout that could create confusion and perceived traffic
difficulties;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport hereby requests that the NCDOT install the signalized intersection
option during the widening of NC 211 at the NC 87 intersection.
Adopted on November 10, 2011.      City of Southport
/s/ Robert D. Howard
Mayor
ATTEST:  /s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
              Clerk
X.   Other Business
The Board discussed scheduling a special meeting for review of City Manager
Position applications. It was determined a meeting would be set after all
members had an opportunity to individually review the applications and resumes
submitted.
XI.   City Manager Comments
Manager Alexander announced the hiring of a new Finance Director, Mr. John
Philyaw, formerly with the City of Gastonia and the Village of Marvin.
XII.   Board Comments
Alderman Karn cautioned the public not to pour fats, oils and grease down the
drain.
XIII.   Adjournment
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to adjourn the meeting at
9:03 p.m. Unanimous vote.
________________________________
       Mayor
____________________________
       Clerk
DECEMBER 8, 2011
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN            REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
DECEMBER 8, 2011             6:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS(CITY HALL) SOUTHPORT, N. C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Ed Boguskie, Nelson Adams, Ken Karn, Mary Ellen Poole,
Jwantana Frink
ALDERMEN ELECT:   Buddy Barnes, Todd Coring, Jim Powell
STAFF PRESENT:   Regina W. Alexander, Interim City Manager/MMC-City Clerk
Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
Michele Windham, Deputy City Clerk
Amy Nelson, Planning Director
Neal Sage, Rescue Squad Chief
Cindy Brochure, Tourism & Economic Development Director
Jim Philyaw, Finance Director
Jerry Dove, Chief of Police
Greg Cumbee, Fire Chief
I.   Call to Order - 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
II.   Invocation
Southport Baptist Church Reverend Dr. Bland pronounced the invocation.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Howard stated if any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.
III.   Approval of Minutes
Alderman Karn requested additions to item VI (c) and item VIII (1) of the
November 10, 2011 minutes.
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to approve the November 10,
2011 regular meeting minutes as amended. Motion passed 5-0.
IV.   Approval of Agenda
Mayor Howard requested addition of Auditors Report, item XII New Business (f).
Alderman Poole requested item XII New Business (e) Consideration of bonuses for
City employees be moved to item VIII Old Business (d).
Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Boguskie to approve the agenda as
modified. Motion passed 5-0.
V.   Public Comments
Ms. Shirley Wilson, 502 Brunswick Street, requested the Board reconsider the
Community Building rental fees for non-profit groups. Ms. Wilson praised the
Public Service Director and thanked Aldermen Frink and Boguskie for their
service on the Board.
Ms. Rhonda Davis, 612 Burrington Avenue, spoke on behalf of her neighbors about
the Hydrogen Sulfide (H 2 S) issue at the Burrington Avenue Pump Station and
their disapproval of the action taken to resolve the situation.
Mr. Clay Fairley, 1005 Captain Adkins Drive, advised the Board that the
Forestry Committee set aside money for the purchase of a tree at the Whittlers
Bench. He discussed the results of a State Port Pilot survey regarding
placement of a tree at the Whittlers Bench; 240 responses, 84 for an Oak, 73
for a Cedar, 30 for a Poplar and 50 did not want a tree.
VI.   Committee Reports
a)   City Manager Search Committee
Alderman Poole reported 51 applications had been received from high quality
candidates, all Board members had reviewed the applications and newly elected
Board members will have an opportunity to review the applications. She
suggested scheduling a special meeting prior to December 16 to discuss the
submittals.
b)   Water/Sewer Committee
Alderman Boguskie entered into the record:
This will be the last report from the Water/Sewer Committee as it will be
rolled into the Utilities Committee. Members to be announced. Water from the
County was acquired and the Southport wells, which were problems, were shut
down. The Leonard Street well is classed as an irrigation well but could be
activated in the case of a disaster. Ralph Cardwell, Utilities Director, saved
the city several thousand dollars in the handling of the Leonard Street well.
The sewer reversal to Brunswick County went well. We now send our waste water
to the Brunswick County Plant in Supply where the waste water is treated and
the effluent is used on their spray field. During the shutting down of the West
West Treatment Plant there was a small spill. The spill was recorded, according
to the state regulation, but not reported because of the small amount of
spillage, again following the State regulations. After the reversal, the
Central Pump Station on Burrington Avenue is now handling almost twice the
waste water it handled when the West West plant was in operation. This has
caused some concern because with the increase of waste water came an increase
of odor from the pump site. The odor is a rotten egg smell known as Hydrogen
Sulfide (H 2 S). The human nose is so sensitive to this odor that it can detect
it in 0.0001 parts per million, much like sharks and blood in the water.
Because of this problem, a Waste/Water Committee meeting was held with W.K.
Dickson in trying to reach a solution to the odor problem. Suggestions were
adding chemicals to the treatment sites that did not produce enough flushes per
day to keep the lines moving, this would eventually come to the Central Pump
site cutting down on the odor. Another suggestion was to place a scrubber at
the Central site, where at that time we were treating the odor with a masking
agent, similar to your bathroom spray can. When this was brought to the Board
of Aldermen a citizen brought to the board information on a company in
Greensboro, NC that could help at a much lesser cost. Another special meeting
was held so we could hear from this company.   No one from the company was in
attendance, as they were working a trade show. A retiree from the Greensboro
sewer system was in attendance to tell us how the additive worked for
Greensboro. It did work in reducing the rotten egg smell in some pump sites but
not in all. After this meeting it was decided that staff and W.K. Dickson Co.
come up with a plan of action and they did. We were notified by email that we
needed the intervention of the County Health Department. Mr. David Stanley and
some of his staff did visit the pump site and found nothing that bothered them
as to safety issues. Mr. Stanley shared his information with the state agencies
and they also found nothing out of compliance.
While this was happening two Southport citizens in the medical field conducted
a survey among some of the residents in the area asking about health issues
that might be attributed to H 2 S. They felt the problem was of a severe nature
while Mr. Stanley talking with some of the same group received a satisfactory
report and so stated in an email to the Mayor. The survey was flawed. When
taking this type of survey you draw a radius from the point of the problem, in
this case the Central Pump Station, for at least three blocks. This gives the
same coverage east to west and north to south and all points in between. Staff
takes H 2 S readings in manholes or cleanouts in this area. You finish with a
smoke test of the lines, both city and in house lines. When smoke appears in
ones house you have a plumbing problem, dry traps, no traps or exhaust pipe not
going through the roof.
Some asked that we get other agencies involved. OSHA was one mentioned. OSHAs
interest is the well being of the city staff and has guidelines for them to
follow when entering an area that might have a gas collection of more than 5
parts per million. This comes under the OSHA Confined Space Regulation, which
the Southport staff follow to the letter. We also have found that there are few
regulations concerning H 2 S in the atmosphere around a plant or pump site.
The chemical additive will help as will a scrubber, but nothing will completely
clear out the odor. We can flush the lines with potable water but this is
causing treatment of potable water as an expense to our tax paying citizens and
is not the most acceptable practice by the State. I believe if we let staff,
our engineering firm W.K. Dickson and input from the County and State agencies
do their job, this problem can be alleviated as much as possible. H 2 S is
inherent in the sewer collection system.
Respectfully submitted
Ed Boguskie (Chair)
December, 8, 2011   
Alderman Boguskie stated a sewer line smoke test had been performed. He thanked
committee members and current and past city staff; David Fox, Johnny Falk, Paul
Woodall, Ralph Cardwell, Donna Boyan, Patty Miller, Regina Alexander, Alan
Thornton, Donnie Potter, Vickie Potter, Larry Coble, and George Baker.
Alderman Boguskie reported the Southeast Brunswick Sanitary District submitted
a June 5, 2011 request to rescind the July 31, 1998 Agreement for the City to
treat wastewater from the Sacred Heart Catholic Church and Sacred Heart Villas.
Alderman Adams moved, seconded by Alderman Frink to table action and refer the
matter to the Utilities Committee.
  Motion carried 5-0 . (Agreement included as attachment to the minutes)   
c)   Website Update
Alderman Karn submitted the Website Report dated December 1, 2011:
I am continuing to load content and have started going to each department to
make sure their page has the information they need. I will also be training
someone in each department so they can add content and update their department
info themselves. This will save us money in that we wont have to pay an IT
person to perform that function.
This system is far more powerful than our existing site. As a result, the
technical specs required by the program exceed the capabilities of the
inexpensive web hosts. When we began I contacted Network Solutions, our current
web host. They told me that they could handle our website, but it might cost us
more money per month.
When I went back to them this week with the exact specifications, the tech said
that they could not accommodate us. I have been exploring other options to see
if we can get the best price. I contacted several web hosting companies and
compared the services and price offered by Vision Internet, our site designers,
which is $200/month. Most actually charge more than that to meet the exact
specs. We can compromise on the specs (slower speed, less security, do back-ups
ourselves, and more) but the best price I could get for that is $130/month.
Current budget items that correspond to this expense are in the General Fund:
1800   Computer software upgrade   $ 9,000
2601   Equipment purchases      $12,000
3500   Repair/Maintain Equipment   $15,000
As of the date on this report I do not have the activity for the 2011-12
expenditures for these items, but I will have them by the meeting date,
December 8, 2011.
The amount needed for the remainder of this fiscal year is $780 - $1,200.
This expenditure will save us money in the long term due to reduced IT
consultant expense and it will improve communication with our citizens
immensely. Amy Nelson and I will be making a presentation to the Board in
January when we expect the site to launch. But we need to solve the web host
situation before the site can go live.
Alderman Karn reported he had met with the Finance Director and there is a
budget line item, Contracted Services, that can be used towards the monthly
fee. Board consensus further discussion and possible action will be taken at a
future meeting.
d)   Fort Johnston Committee
Alderman Frink thanked all Fort Johnston Committee members and volunteers for
their efforts developing a plan for the Fort Johnston Southport Museum &
Visitors Center. She pointed out an agenda item for budget consideration for
relocation of the Visitors Center and she encouraged action on the item.
VII.   Departmental Reports (Included in agenda packet)
VIII.   Old Business
a)   Update on space planning and relocation of city offices
Mayor Howard gave an update on the space analysis for relocation of city
offices
$   Relocation of Police Department to another building; old Fire Department an
option
$   Relocation of records from City Hall
$   Jail Annex returned to City; possible location for records storage
$   Preliminary plans completed; to be forwarded to Board members
$   Request for proposals (RFP) to follow
b)   Consideration of approval of line item budget for the relocation of the
Visitors Center project subject to confirmation of bids
Board consensus to establish a line item budget for the Visitors Center
relocation, not to exceed $48,200, subject to confirmation of bids.
c)   Consideration of approval to complete the sidewalk project on Bay Street
at an estimated cost of $2,200 from Powell Bill Funds 
Alderman Boguskie moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to complete the sidewalk
project on Bay Street at an estimated cost of $2,200 from Powell Bill Funds.
Motion passed 5-0.
d)   Consideration of bonuses for City employees
Alderman Frink moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to give full-time employees a
$175 bonus and part-time employees a $125 bonus. Motion passed 5-0.
IX.   Recognition of Departing Southport Board of Aldermen Members Aldermen
Boguskie and Frink
Mayor Howard and Alderman Poole presented plaques of recognition to departing
Board members Jwantana Frink and Ed Boguskie.
Mayor Howard and Alderman Poole presented plaques of recognition to former
Aldermen Donnie Potter and Vickie Potter.
X. Swearing In Ceremony of Mayor Elect Robert Howard, Aldermen Elect James
Powell, Buddy Barnes and Todd Coring.
Mayor Elect Robert Howard was sworn in by City Clerk Regina Alexander.
Alderman Elect Todd Coring was sworn in by City Clerk Regina Alexander.
Alderman Elect Buddy Barnes was sworn in by Brunswick County Superior Court
Judge Ola Lewis.
Alderman Elect Jim Powell was sworn in by Brunswick County Superior Court Judge
Ola Lewis.
Oaths incorporated as attachment to the minutes.
XI.   Organizational Meeting of the Board
a)   Election of Mayor Pro-Tem
Alderman Powell nominated Alderman Poole for Mayor Pro-Tem. With no other
nominations, Alderman Barnes moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to close
nominations and appoint Alderman Poole as Mayor Pro Tem. Motion carried 6-0.
Mayor Pro Tem Poole was sworn in by Mayor Howard.
Alderman Barnes moved, seconded by Alderman Powell to appoint Regina Alexander
as Clerk to the Board and Michele Windham as Deputy Clerk to the Board. Motion
carried 6-0.
Alderman Adams moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to retain Mike Isenberg as the
City Attorney. Motion carried 6-0.
XII.   New Business
a)   Consideration of and possible action to Amend Chapter 2, Section 2-26 of
the City Code Entitled Administration of Ordinances
Alderman Barnes moved, seconded by Alderman Adams to amend Chapter 2, Section
2-26 of the Code of Ordinances.
Ayes:   Aldermen Coring, Powell, Barnes, Poole & Adams
Nay:   Alderman Karn
Motion carried 5-1
BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport that Section
2-26 of the Code of Ordinances are hereby amended to read as follows:
Sec. 2-26 Committees appointed by Mayor
The Mayor shall appoint such committees and assign to them such duties as he
deems necessary for the proper and efficient operation of the city government.
Adopted this 8 th day of December, 2011.
City of Southport
/s/ Robert D. Howard
Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
Clerk
b)   Consideration of additional non-profit fee for use of Community Building
Cindy Brochure, Tourism and Economic Development Director, requested approval
to charge non-profit groups a one time fee of $50 for rental of the community
building beginning January, 2012. Mayor Howard pointed out the Board had
established a Rate Advisory Committee to review all city fees and will take the
request under consideration.
c)   Consideration of Establishing a date for the 2012 Board Retreat after hire
of a New City Manager
Board consensus to table setting a date for the 2012 Board Retreat until the
January regular meeting.
d)   Committee and Board Liaison Appointments
Mayor Howard provided Board members with a proposed Committee Appointment and
Liaison to Committees listings and asked members to review the listings, advise
him those committees they would like to serve on and provide suggestions for
appointments. He distributed criteria for the Rate Advisory Committee,
requested feed back and stated his desire to see a report from the Rate
Advisory Committee within six months.
Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Barnes to appoint Mr. Paul Fisher
as the Citys representative to ElectriCities.
Ayes: Aldermen Powell, Barnes, Coring, Adams, Poole
Nay: Alderman Karn
Motion carried 5-1.
Alderman Adams moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to appoint Alderman Karn as
the alternate representative to ElectriCities. Motion carried 6-0.
e)   Item moved to Old Business
f)   Auditor Report
Mr. Menton Padgett, CPA with Brock Berry Padgett & Chandler PLLC delivered the
annual City of Southport Audited Financial Statements. He gave an overview of
the statements, supplemental financial data, individual fund statements and
schedules. Mayor Howard recommended further review during the annual retreat.
Alderman Karn pointed out a new web site would give the public accessibility to
budget information.  (Report included as attachment to the minutes)
XIII.   Other Business
a)    Potential Executive Session to discuss hiring a City Manager
Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Powell to go into Closed Session
pursuant to G.S.143-318.11(a)(6) to discuss hiring a City Manager. Motion
carried 6-0.
No minutes provided.
Regular Session Reconvened - 8:41 p.m.
Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Barnes to return to regular session.
Motion carried 6-0.
Mayor Howard reconvened the regular session and reported the Board discussed
the City Manager position and specific parameters for moving forward.
XIV.   City Manager Comments
City Manager Alexander reported that City employees are collecting non-
perishable food items for the food pantry.
XV.   Board Comments
Alderman Poole expressed her appreciation to all involved in the December 6
festivities; Whittlers Bench Christmas Tree lighting, fire truck rides for area
children, and Santas workshop. She praised the City Hall holiday decorations.
Alderman Poole encouraged Board members and the public to bring non-perishable
food items to the January Board of Aldermen meeting to donate to the local food
bank.
Alderman Barnes spoke about the Shop With A Cop program and encouraged everyone
to participate.
Mayor Howard stated his appreciation to new Board members for their willingness
to serve the community. He thanked Alderman Poole for her assistance and all
Board members for working together for the good of the community.
XVI.   Adjournment
Alderman Barnes moved, seconded by Alderman Powell to recess the meeting at 8:
52 p.m. until December 14, 2011, 5:30 p.m. Motion carried 6-0.
________________________________
                         Mayor
____________________________
               Clerk
DECEMBER 14, 2011
RECESSED MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN            RECESSED MEETING MINUTES
DECEMBER 14, 2011            6:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS(CITY HALL) SOUTHPORT, N. C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
Aldermen Jim Powell, Ken Karn, Todd Coring, Mary Ellen Poole
Buddy Barnes
STAFF PRESENT:   Regina W. Alexander, Interim City Manager/MMC-City Clerk
Michele Windham, Deputy City Clerk
I.   Call to Order - 5:30 p.m.
Mayor Howard called the continuation of the December 8, 2011 regular meeting to
order at 5:30 p.m.
II.   Invocation
Mayor Howard pronounced the invocation.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Howard stated if any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.
III.   Executive Session
Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Barnes to go into Executive Session
pursuant to G.S.143-318.11(a)(6) to discuss City Manager applicants. Motion
carried 6-0.   No minutes provided; Clerk and City Manager excused.
Alderman Adams arrives: 5:46 p.m.
Regular Session Reconvened: 7:15 p.m.
Motion was made by Alderman Powell, seconded by Alderman Barnes to come out of
executive session. Motion carried 6-0.
Mayor Howard stated that the purpose of the executive session was to select a
number of candidates that will go to the next step. He stated that each Board
member independently ranked the candidates and came up with twelve names that
would be given further consideration; that Alderman Poole will contact the
candidates and they will be requested to return a video addressing questions
that the Board created; that he anticipated by the first week in January that
the videos will be back and the Board will then further narrow the field of
candidates for consideration; that there were great resumes; and that every
Board member had equal input.
Mayor Howard passed out preliminary liaison and committee appointments, and
discussed Alderman of the Month. He explained that Alderman of the Month would
be responsible for the Welcome and Invocation at the meeting. He led
discussions of the Rate Advisory and Utility Committee. Discussion involved
voluntary annexation plans as well as the benefit of citizens on the
committees. He additionally asked for any recommendations for additions to the
committees be e-mailed to him. Alderman Powell asked permission to contact WK
Dickson and Department of Transportation (DOT) in order to obtain information
for Utility and Traffic Committee. Mayor Howard gave approval.
Alderman Barnes commented on the 4th of July Committee Liaison and acknowledged
the reappointment of Alderman Karn. He stated that he had heard from a
significant number of members of the Committee stating that Alderman Karn had
provided significant and appreciative input to the Committee.
Mayor Howard commented that during the Retreat, a discussion was needed about
limiting coordinations, especially with the attorney.
IV.   Board Comments
Alderman Barnes reemphasized the importance of the support by the Board of the
Citys New Years Eve Party. He stated that profits would pay for city brochures.
He asked the press (State Port Pilot, Mr. Spiers who was in attendance) to
assist in publicizing the event.
V.   Adjournment
Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Barnes to adjourn the meeting. The
meeting was adjourned at 7:40 p.m. Motion carried 6-0.
________________________________
                         Mayor
____________________________
               Clerk                           
Prepared by Mary Ellen Poole, Mayor Pro-Tem, Deputy Clerk
2012
JANUARY 4, 2012
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN            SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
JANUARY 4, 2012              6:30 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS(CITY HALL) SOUTHPORT, N. C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Jim Powell, Ken Karn, Todd Coring, Mary Ellen Poole
         Buddy Barnes, Nelson Adams
STAFF PRESENT:   Regina W. Alexander, Interim City Manager/MMC-City Clerk
         Michele Windham, Deputy City Clerk
I.   Call to Order - 6:30 p.m.
Mayor Howard called the special meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
II.   Invocation
Alderman Poole expressed a welcome and pronounced the invocation.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Howard stated if any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.
III.   Executive Session
Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Adams to go into Executive Session
pursuant to G.S.143-318.11(a)(6) to discuss City Manager applicants. Motion
carried 5-0  Mayor Howard pointed out that Alderman Karn was not present for
the vote. Alderman Karn was setting up audio/visual equipment in the adjoining
room for Board use.
IV.   Regular Session Reconvened: 7:39 p.m.
Motion was made by Alderman Barnes, seconded by Alderman Powell to come out of
executive session. Motion carried 6-0.
Mayor Howard stated that the purpose of the executive session was to watch
videos submitted from applicants for the City Manager position.
V.   Adjournment
Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to recess the meeting at 7:41
p.m. until January 9, 2012, 6:30 p.m. Motion carried 6-0.
________________________________
            Mayor
____________________________
Clerk
JANUARY 12, 2012
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN            REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
JANUARY 12, 2012             6:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS(CITY HALL) SOUTHPORT, N. C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Todd Coring, Ken Karn, Mary Ellen Poole, Buddy Barnes,
         Nelson Adams, Jim Powell
STAFF PRESENT:   Regina W. Alexander, Interim City Manager/MMC-City Clerk
         Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
         Michele Windham, Deputy City Clerk
         Amy Nelson, Planning Director
         Neal Sage, Rescue Squad Chief
         Cindy Brochure, Tourism & Economic Development Director
         Jim Philyaw, Finance Director
         Jerry Dove, Chief of Police
         Greg Cumbee, Fire Chief
         Heather Hemphill, Director of Parks & Recreation
I.   Call to Order - 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
II.   Invocation
Alderman Poole spoke a welcome and pronounced the invocation.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Howard stated if any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.
III.   Approval of Minutes
Alderman Poole motioned, seconded by Alderman Karn to approve the December 8,
2011 regular meeting minutes, December 14, 2011 recessed meeting minutes and
January 4, 2012 special meeting minutes. Motion passed 4-0.
IV.   Public Comment
Mr. Larry Maisel, 114 W. West Street and member of the Southport Historical
Society, displayed to the Board and audience the new historical reference sign
for the Whittlers Bench.
Mr. Ed Boguskie, 502 W. Brown Street, requested the following be entered into
the record:
   Since the last Board of Aldermen meeting in December, I have heard too often
the words, mandated by the Board. A mandate from the Board requires that it be
done in an open session and would be in the minutes of that meeting. Mandates
or board action, which ever you choose, cannot be done via phone calls among
the board members and then call that board action. The board has to, by statute
and city charter, make all action items in open meetings with notice of the
meeting. Notice is a standing, published meeting schedule or a 48 hour notice
posted in city hall. If the board chooses to hire a consultant, be it an
engineering firm or other type of consulting firm, action has to be taken in
open public session and under only a few exceptions the board can hire a city
employee.
   Board members cannot put in place work orders. These are done by city
managers, city supervisors or director of city departments. I once received an
email that said, let staff do its work, not a bad thing for board members to
remember.
   W.K. Dickson is on the agenda tonight for two (2) task orders. (Task Order 4
& Task Order 5). Southport has to use an engineering firm as we have no
engineer on staff. The former Utilities Director was not an engineer, the
interim director is a planner and the utilities committee has no engineer as a
member. I am concerned about the cost that will be incurred for these two (2)
orders. The cost for engineering work is public record and can be seen.
Engineering cost are among the highest dollar items spent on the running of a
city. All engineering work should be scrutinized as to need versus dollars
spent. We are in one of the worst economic downturns of our life time. One day
good news the next three (3) days bad news and this has an impact on Southport
and Brunswick County. Keep this in mind when spending taxpayers dollars.
   Lastly Southport is a City Manager Board type of government. The City
Manager handles the day to day running of the city, while the board works on
the needs and wants of our citizens. In this form of government the board will
pass on to the city manager things it would, collectively, want to see happen.
Be statute and charter the Mayor is given mainly ceremonial powers. This type
of government serves its citizens well. You as board members need to understand
your duties, as elected officials, and carry them out without hesitation,
reservation or coercion. When in doubt contact the city attorney or the North
Carolina School of Government at Chapel Hill, neither will lead you in the
wrong direction.
Respectfully submitted Thursday, January 12, 2012
Ed Boguskie
Ms. Bonnie Thomas, 5122 Prices Creek Drive, thanked the Board and public for
supporting the Southport Womens Club and she encouraged attendance at the South
Brunswick Middle and High Schools Students Arts Program to be held at the
Southport Community Building January 30, 2012, 4:00 - 7:00 p.m.
Ms. Jenny Dunn, 197 St. Brendan Court, expressed her appreciation to Aldermen
and City staff for their support and helpfulness in creating a small garden
area with donated chairs on the waterfront at Atlantic Avenue and Bay Street.
Alderman Adams Arrives - 6:30 p.m.
V.   Approval of Agenda
Alderman Barnes asked for consideration and possible action on a resolution
pertaining to the proposed State Ferry System rate increase be added to Agenda
Item X. Other Business.
Mayor Howard requested addition of an employee request for vacation hours carry
over be added to Agenda Item X. Other Business.
Alderman Powell Arrives: 6:34 p.m.
Alderman Poole motioned, seconded by Alderman Coring to approve the agenda as
modified. Motion carried 6-0.
VI.   Committee Reports
a)   Website Committee
Alderman Karn reported he had been working on the website, researched website
hosts and the new City website should be ready by the end of the month.
a)   Utility Committee
Alderman Powell reported the Utility Committee met January 11, 2012 and
discussed:
$   Progress on the Burrington Avenue Central Pump Station.
- Results of the Hydrogen Sulfide readings from December 15 through December
27, 2011; 200 p/pm down to 12 p/pm.
$   Retaining W.K. Dickson for a feasibility study on maintaining the sewer
reatment for Sacred Heart Catholic Church.
$   The Citys electric system.
$   Announcement of a meeting January 20, 2012, 11:00 am with Cecil Rhodes of
ElectriCities to update Alderman Powell, Barnes and Mr. Paul Fisher.
$   A recommendation to direct the Planning Board to review The Unified
Development Ordinance Stormwater Ordinance.
$   Agreement with Piedmont Gas.
b)   Rate Committee
Alderman Barnes reported the Rate Committee met January 9, 2012. The Committee
established a priority process for the various City rates to be reviewed. The
Community Building rates are to be reviewed first and a report will be made at
the next regular meeting.
c)   City Manager Search Committee
Alderman Poole reported on the status of the City Manager search. She stated
the Board had addressed the issue in a regular meeting, recessed meeting,
special meeting, had reviewed resumes, asked a certain number of applicants to
provide video responses to precise questions from the Board, reviewed the
videos submitted, and have picked a specific number of applicants to interview.
Interviews to begin January 13, 2012.
VII.   Departmental Reports (Included in agenda packet)
Alderman Karn motioned, seconded by Alderman Barnes to ratify the authorization
for issuance of Purchase Order 024365, December 22, 2011 to Masimo for time
sensitive purchase of equipment for the Rescue Squad with the understanding
$1,250 would be reimbursed to the City by the Rescue Squad. Motion carried 6-0.
Rescue Squad Chief Neal Sage explained the details of a matching grant award of
$12,280 from the North Carolina Department of Insurance, Office of the Fire
Marshall to purchase equipment. The Citys matching portion of the grant will be
paid through the Southport Rescue Auxiliary Fund.
Chief Sage reported the Southport Rescue Squad grant application to FEMA is
still in the running for an award.
Chief Sage announced the Southport Rescue Squad will host a county-wide NFPA
Workshop February 18, 2012, 8:30 a.m.
The mayor discussed the need to retrofit the rescue squads vehicles, upgrade of
the squad quarters, with possible expansion into the old fire station and
establishing a method of capital reserves for future upgrades.
VIII.   Public Hearing
a)   City of Southport Unified Development Ordinance Text Amendment for Article
2 Basic Definitions & Interpretations and Article 13 Planned Building Group
Regulations
Alderman Coring motioned, seconded by Alderman Powell to go into Public
Hearing. Motion carried 6-0.
City Planner, Amy Nelson, explained the Planning Board and staff recommended
text amendment.
Mr. Ed Boguskie, 502 W. Brown Street, contended the proposed text amendment had
been addressed in 2010 and he suggested the Planning Board and Board of
Aldermen spend time on more important issues such as stormwater.
Mr. Fred Guerrina, 710 Dale Avenue and Planning Board member, shared the views
of the the Planning Board that a building(s) under 7,000 sq. ft. should be
reviewed by the Planning Board to ensure the public is aware of all local
developments.
Alderman Coring motioned, seconded by Alderman Powell to close the Public
Hearing.  Motion carried 6-0.
IX.   New Business
a)   Consideration of Unified Development Ordinance text Amendment to Article 2
Basic Definitions & Interpretations and Article 13 Planned Building Group
Regulation
Alderman Barnes motioned, seconded by Alderman Powell to adopt the Unified
Development Ordinance text Amendment to Article 2 Basic Definitions &
Interpretations and Article 13 Planned Building Group Regulation as presented.
Ayes:   Aldermen Barnes, Powell, Coring, Poole, Adams
Nay:   Alderman Karn
Motion carried 5-1.    
RESOLUTION APPROVING TEXT AMENDMENTS TO UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
THAT WHEREAS the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance and other
land use ordinances that control land development within both the Citys
incorporated areas and within its extraterritorial area; and
WHEREAS, in order to promote the public health, safety and general welfare and
to promote the best interest of the city and community, it is necessary for the
Southport Board of Aldermen from time to time to consider appropriate
revisions, modifications and additions to the citys land use ordinances; and
WHEREAS, the Planning Board has considered proposed amendments to Articles 2
and 13 of the Southport Unified Development Ordinance and has made a
recommendation that these proposed amendments to the Unified Development
Ordinance be approved; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the NC General Statutes and city ordinances, a public
hearing, properly noticed, was held on January 12, 2012, before the Board of
Aldermen regarding these issues; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen, after considering the public comments and
recommendation of the Planning Board, hereby finds that these proposed
amendments to the Unified Development Ordinance are consistent with the
Southport CAMA Land Use Plan; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that these amendments are
reasonable and in the public interest in that (i) these changes are necessary
in order to clarify a definition in the Unified Development Ordinance, (ii)
these amendments should promote efficiency in plan review, and (iii) they
should promote the public safety and general welfare of the community by
better-defining a type of development with the potential for a major impact on
the community.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that the
attached amendments and additions to the Southport Unified Development
Ordinance are hereby approved and adopted, this 12th day of January, 2012.
City of Southport
By: /s/ Robert D. Howard
Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
Clerk
Planning Director Amy Nelson and Carter Hubard with W.K. Dickson announced the
grant award of $90,000 from the national program Safe Routes to School
administered by the North Carolina Department of Transportation (NCDOT). Ms.
Nelson stated the grant will be used for installation of five (5) foot wide ADA
compliant sidewalks from St. George Street to 9 th Street. She requested
authorization to continue through the next phase. Carter Hubard indicated W.K.
Dickson will be assisting in the process; preparing maps, engineering plans,
assist with construction administration.
Alderman Adams motioned, seconded by Alderman Karn to authorize the Planning
staff to proceed through the design phase for installation of sidewalks from
St. George Street to 9 th Streets without financial obligation for the City.
Motion carried 6-0.  
   1. Consideration of Task Order #4 for Engineering Services; Sewer Service
Limited Feasibility Study for Sacred Heart Church and Villas
Alderman Poole motioned, seconded by Alderman Barnes to defer consideration of
Task
Order #4 to the annual Board Retreat.  Motion carried 6-0.
   2. Consideration of Task Order #5 for Engineering Services; Miscellaneous
Engineering Services requested by Utility Committee
Alderman Powell requested removal of the item.
c)   Consideration of Resolution Adopting a Policy for Mutual Assistance with
other Law Enforcement Agencies
Police Chief, Jerry Dove, stated the North Carolina Attorney Generals office
requires an updated policy for mutual assistance. Attorney Isenberg stated the
agreements are standard wording of General Statutes and allows the Board to
authorize the Chief of Police to enter into mutual assistance agreements.
Alderman Powell motioned, seconded by Alderman Coring to adopt the Resolution
Adopting a Policy for Mutual Assistance With Other Law Enforcement Agencies.
Motion carried 6-0.  
RESOLUTION ADOPTING A POLICY FOR MUTUAL ASSISTANCE WITH OTHER LAW ENFORCEMENT
AGENCIES
WHEREAS, pursuant to North Carolina General Statutes 160A-288, the governing
body of a town may adopt appropriate guidelines for the purpose of mutual
assistance with other municipal and county law enforcement agencies; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to said laws, the law enforcement assistance to be rendered
authorizes lending officers to work temporarily with officers of the requesting
agencies, including in an undercover capacity, and lending equipment and
supplies; and
WHEREAS, it is deemed to be in the best interest of the citizens of the City of
Southport to adopt a reasonable policy and set of guidelines whereby reciprocal
law enforcement assistance can be both rendered to and obtained from other
governmental jurisdictions; and
WHEREAS, such reciprocal assistance is necessary for effective law enforcement
for the protection of the citizens of the City of Southport.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT THAT:
1.   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to enter into mutual assistance
arrangements with other municipal and county law enforcement agencies, provided
that the head of the requesting law enforcement agency makes such a request in
writing.
2.   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to permit officers of the
Southport Police Department to work temporarily with officers of the requesting
agency, including in an undercover capacity, and the Chief of Police may lend
such equipment and supplies to requesting agencies as he deems advisable.
3.   All such request and authorizations shall be in accordance with North
Carolina Statutes 160A-288, as applicable.
4.   While working with a requesting agency, an officer shall have the same
jurisdiction, powers, rights, privileges and immunities (Including those
related to defense of civil actions and payment of judgments) as the officers
of the requesting agency in addition to those the officer normally possesses.
5.   While on duty with the requesting agency, an officer shall be subject to
the lawful operational commands of the officers superior officers in the
requesting agency, but the officer shall for personnel and administrative
purposes, remain under the control of the officers own agency, including for
purposes of pay. An officer shall furthermore be entitled to workers
compensation and the same benefits to the extent as though he were functioning
within the normal scope of the officers duties.
6.   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to enter into mutual assistance
agreements with other low enforcement agencies in accordance with such
reasonable arrangements, terms and conditions as may be agreed upon by the
respective heads of the law enforcement agencies.
Adopted this the 12th day of January , 2012
/s/ Robert D. Howard
Mayor
Attest: /s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
Clerk
d)   Consideration of Entering into a Web Hosting Contract with Vision Internet
for the Citys new website
Alderman Karn answered Board questions and explained the Website Committee
recommendation to enter into a contract with Vision Internet for web hosting
services for the Citys new web page.
Alderman Adams motioned, seconded by Alderman Barnes to adopt the contract with
Vision Internet for web hosting with the changes made by the city attorney with
the initial term being through June 30, 2011, with options to renew annually.
Motion carried 6-0.
e)   Consideration of FY 2011-2012 City of Southport Budget Amendments #7, #8,
#9, #10 #11, & #12
Alderman Karn motioned, seconded by Alderman Poole to adopt Budget Amendment #7
as revised. Motion carried 6-0.
Budget Amendment #7
Fiscal Year 2011-2012
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, NC assembled
in regular session January 12, 2012, that the following Budget Amendment be
adopted for:
1.)   Appropriating Electric and Water and Sewer Fund Balance to use as salary
and benefits for hiring a Part-Time Public Services Director during the hiring
process for a permanent Public Services Director. This amendment is based on an
hourly rate of $34 and is to cover any current cost overruns and payout
expenses for the existing Public Services Director and any additional expenses
for a new director.
ELECTRIC AND WATER AND SEWER FUND
                     Budget      Budget As
                     Amendment   Amended
                     Increase (Decrease)
Section #IV and V
A.   Revenues Anticipated
Electric Fund Appropriated Fund Balance      $ 5,000   $ 17,500
Water and Sewer Appropriated Fund Balance   $ 10,000   $ 10,000
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
Electric Salaries               $ 4,617   $227,699
   Electric F.I.C.A.               $ 383   $ 17,448
Water and Sewer Salaries            $ 9,235   $334,746
Water and Sewer F.I.C.A.            $ 765   $ 25,667
ADOPTED this the 12 th day of January, 2012
/s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest: /s/Regina W. Alexander, MMC
Clerk
Alderman Karn motioned, seconded by Alderman Barnes to adopt Budget Amendment
#8.  Motion carried 6-0.
Budget Amendment #8
Fiscal Year 2011-2012
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, NC assembled
in regular session January 12, 2012, that the following Budget Amendment be
adopted for:
1.)   Appropriating Fire Department General Fund Reserved Fund Balance for
purchasing an Aerial Platform Vehicle that was not in the original budget. This
has been approved by the Board of Aldermen.
FIRE DEPARTMENT
                  Budget      Budget As
                  Amendment   Amended
                  Increase (Decrease)
Section # I
A.   Revenues Anticipated
General Fund Appropriated Fund Balance   $ 380,202   $1,194,077
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
Capital Outlay - Vehicles         $ 380,202   $ 485,202
ADOPTED this the 12 th day of January, 2012
/s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
Clerk
Alderman Powell motioned, seconded by Alderman Poole to adopt Budget Amendment
#9. Motion carried 6-0.
Budget Amendment #9
Fiscal Year 2011-2012
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, NC assembled
in regular session January 12, 2012, that the following Budget Amendment be
adopted for:
1.)   Appropriating Electric and Water and Sewer Fund Balance for payment of
extra meter reading services rendered in FY 2010-2011 but not billed until 12/
15/2011 in FY 2011-2012
ELECTRIC, WATER AND SEWER DEPARTMENT
                     Budget      Budget As
                     Amendment   Amended
                     Increase (Decrease)
Section # IV AND V
A.   Revenues Anticipated
Electric Fund Appropriated Fund Balance      $ 743      $ 23,243
Water and Sewer Appropriated Fund Balance   $ 742      $ 20,742
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
Meter Reading Contract - Electric         $ 743      $ 27,193
Meter Reading Contract - Water and Sewer   $ 742      $ 26,992
ADOPTED this the 12 th day of January, 2012
/s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
Clerk
Alderman Barnes motioned, seconded by Alderman Powell to adopt Budget Amendment
#10. Motion carried 6-0.
Budget Amendment #10
Fiscal Year 2011-2012
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, NC assembled
in regular session January 12, 2012, that the following Budget Amendment be
adopted for:
1.)   Appropriating Water and Sewer Fund Balance and Transfer of Funds for
monthly screen testing for airborne concentrations of hydrogen sulfide
associated with pump station for the remainder of FY 2011-2012 ($2,100 per
month for seven months) and other professional services associated with this
testing.
WATER AND SEWER DEPARTMENT
                     Budget      Budget As
                     Amendment   Amended
                     Increase (Decrease)
Section # V
A.   Revenues Anticipated
Water and Sewer Appropriated Fund Balance   $ 24,700   $ 45,442
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
Professional Services            $ 34,700   $ 59,700
Telephone and Postage            ($ 5,000)   $ 19,300
Tires and Fuel               ($ 5,000)   $ 18,500
ADOPTED this the 12 th day of January, 2012
/s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
Clerk
Alderman Powell motioned, seconded by Alderman Coring to adopt Budget Amendment
#11. Motion carried 6-0.
Budget Amendment #11
Fiscal Year 2011-2012
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, NC assembled
in regular session January 12, 2012, that the following Budget Amendment be
adopted for:
1.)   Appropriating General Fund Balance excess revenue funds from the Rescue
Squad FY 2010-2011 operations that were not reserved by the audit firm. Figures
are from audited FY 2010-2011 financial statements.
RESCUE SQUAD
                     Budget      Budget As
                     Amendment   Amended
                     Increase (Decrease)
Section # 1
A.   Revenues Anticipated
General Fund Appropriated Fund Balance      $ 6,707   $1,200,784
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
Other Equipment               $ 2,707   $ 7,707
Asset Purchase < $5000            $ 4,000   $ 4,000
ADOPTED this the 12 th day of January, 2012
/s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
Clerk
Alderman Barnes motioned, seconded by Alderman Coring to adopt Budget
Amendment #12. Motion carried 6-0.
Budget Amendment #12
Fiscal Year 2011-2012
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, NC assembled
in regular session January 12, 2012, that the following Budget Amendment be
adopted for:
1.)   Recognizing State Grant Funds and Rescue Squad Matching Funds to purchase
a RAD-57 Handheld Monitor. Unanimous approval was given by Board by telephone
consensus on 12/21/2011.
RESCUE SQUAD
                     Budget      Budget As
                     Amendment   Amended
                     Increase (Decrease)
Section # 1
A.   Revenues Anticipated
Rescue/EMS Grant            $ 12,280   $ 12,280
Rescue Squad Misc. Receipts         $ 12,280   $ 12,280
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
Capital Outlay-Other Equipment      $ 24,560   $ 24,560
ADOPTED this the 12 th day of January, 2012
/s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
Clerk
f)   Consideration of Entering into Contract with Hooks Burglar and Fire Alarm
Co., Inc. for Burglar and Fire Alarm monitoring at the Southport Fire
Department, 1101 N. Howe Street
After receiving advice from the City attorney, Board consensus to direct staff,
in consultation with the City attorney, to reconsider the security alarm
services at the fire station and re-submit the contract to the Board.
Recess - 7:24 p.m.
Reconvene - 7:35 p.m.
g)   Consideration of Proposals for the Old Smithville Burying Grounds
Ms. Muzette Steck, Southport Historical Society, presented the following
proposals for The Old Smithville Burying Grounds:
1.   The Southport Historical Society (SHS) asks for permission to remove all
Christmas wreathes and flowers from grave sites within two weeks before Easter.
Remove all Easter flowers between Thanksgiving and Christmas.
2.   SHS asks permission to remove glass containers as well as all portable
containers which hold water and breed mosquitoes.
3.   SHS asks permission to attach letters and numerals on wooden plaques along
the inside of the fence which will enable visitors to find any grave. The style
of the sign will be similar to the routed sign and colors of the sign at the
corner of Moore and Rhett Streets.
4.   SHS asks the City to continue to mow the areas outside the fence and only
the larger grass areas inside the fence. Over the years, many foot stones have
been chipped or broken because the riding lawnmower is too wide to safely mow
most of the interior areas. However, the week trimming of individual plots, as
was done by the City in November, improves the overall appearance.
5.   SHS will continue to apprise the City Manager, the Aldermen and Mr.
Strickland of perceived needs and possible solutions. It would be helpful to
have one Alderman to whom SHS could present problems such as trees which are
uprooting massive family headstones and other trees which are in danger of
falling on tombstones.
Board consensus to hold implementation of policy pending a Public Hearing
during the February regular meeting.
h)   Consideration of the Cedar/Whittlers Bench Proposed Historical Renovation
No one was in attendance to speak to the proposed renovation.
i)   Planning Board Appointments
      - Vacant ETJ Seat
      - Vacant seat created by Alderman Buddy Barnes
Planning Board appointments were tabled pending applicant interviews.
j)   Consideration of Resolution in support of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
Holiday, January 15 & 16 th
Alderman Barnes motioned, seconded by Alderman Powell to adopt the Resolution
in Support of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Holiday, January 15 th and 16 th
.  Motion carried 6-0.
RESOLUTION
HONORING DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING JR. CELEBRATION
WHEREAS, the Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Celebration Committee was formed and
entrusted with the responsibility to plan a community wide celebration to
appropriately honor this great leader; and
WHEREAS, Dr. Martin Luther King Celebration Committee has selected the date of
Sunday January 15 and Monday January 16, 2012 to hold this celebration with
events scheduled to include youth programs, a march and roundtable breakfast,
and
WHEREAS, the Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Celebration has established a mission
statement in which its most important goal is to bring people of the community
together for the purpose of promotion good will and harmony for the betterment
of the entire community; and
WHEREAS, it is extremely important that the great works and deeds of Dr. Martin
Luther King, Jr. Be duly remembered, honored and recognized in this most
filling and proper way.
NOW, THERFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Mayor and Board of Aldermen of Southport
recognizes January 15-16, 2012 as the official dates of celebration by the Dr.
Martin Luther King Jr. Celebration Committee and encourages all citizens to
participate in the activities schedules.
Adopted the 12th day of January 2012.
/s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
City Clerk
k)   Closed Session for Consultation with City Attorney regarding establishment
of a Tourism Development Authority (TDA)
Closed Session - 9:00 p.m.
Alderman Karn motioned, seconded by Alderman Coring to go into Closed Session
pursuant to G.S. 143-318.11(a)(3) to consult with the City Attorney regarding
establishment of a Tourism Development Authority (TDA). Motion carried 6-0.
Regular Session Reconvened - 9:19 p.m.
Alderman Coring motioned, seconded by Alderman Powell to come out of Closed
Session. Motion carried 6-0.
Mayor Howard stated the Board met in consultation with the attorney to discuss
a Tourism Development Authority. No action was taken in closed session. Further
consideration of a Tourism Development Authority will be held during the annual
Board retreat.
X.   Other Business
Alderman Barnes spoke about calls he had received from citizens regarding the
North Carolina Department of Transportation (NCDOT) proposed increase in ferry
rates and the potential detriment to local businesses and tourism. The Board
deferred consideration of a Resolution until after a NCDOT public informational
meeting, January 31, 2012.
Alderman Karn motioned, seconded by Alderman Powell to permit Interim City
Manager Alexander to carry over 60 hours of unused annual leave and comp time.
XI.   City Manager Comments
Manager Alexander had no comments.
XII.   Board Comments
Alderman Coring commended the Planning Director and Rescue Squad for obtaining
grants.
Alderman Powell motioned, seconded by Alderman Karn to limit regular Board
meetings to two (2) hours, and if need be, recess the meeting to the following
Tuesday at 6:00 p.m.
  Motion carried 6-0.
Alderman Poole expressed her appreciation for the donations to the local food
bank.
Mayor Howard suggested discussion of a consent agenda be held during the Board
annual Retreat.
XIII.   Adjournment
Alderman Barnes motioned, seconded by Alderman Powell to recess the meeting at
9:31 p.m. until January 13, 2012, 9:00 a.m. Motion carried 6-0.
________________________________
                         Mayor
____________________________
               Clerk
JANUARY 13, 2012
RECESSED MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN            RECESSED MEETING MINUTES
JANUARY 13, 2012             9:00 A.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS(CITY HALL) SOUTHPORT, N. C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Jim Powell, Ken Karn, Todd Coring, Nelson Adams
         Mary Ellen Poole, Buddy Barnes
STAFF PRESENT:   Michele Windham, Deputy City Clerk
I.   Call to Order - 9:00 a.m.
Mayor Howard called the continuation of the January 12, 2012 regular meeting to
order at 9:10 a.m.
The Board discussed the interview process to be followed. Board consensus,
Alderman Poole to conduct the proceedings. Alderman Poole discussed questions
not to be asked.
II.   Recess - 9:25 a.m.
III.   Reconvene Regular Session - 9:45 a.m.
Mayor Howard reconvened the meeting.
IV.   Executive Session
Alderman Barnes motioned, seconded by Alderman Powell to go into Executive
Session pursuant to G.S.143-318.11(a)(6) to interview City Manager applicants.
Motion carried 6-0  
V.   Reconvene Regular Session - 11:15 a.m.
Alderman Barnes motioned, seconded by Alderman Karn to come out of Executive
Session. Motion carried 6-0.
VI.   Recess
Mayor Howard recessed the meeting until 12:45 p.m.
VII.   Reconvene Regular Session - 12:53 p.m.
Mayor Howard reconvened the meeting.
VIII.   Executive Session
Alderman Barnes motioned, seconded by Alderman Powell to go into Executive
Session pursuant to G.S.143-318.11(a)(6) to interview City Manager applicants.
Motion carried 6-0.
IX.   Reconvene Regular Session - 2:55 p.m.
Alderman Powell motioned, seconded by Alderman Barnes to come out of Executive
Session. Motion carried 6-0.
X.   Recess
XI.   Reconvene Regular Session - 3:15 p.m.
Mayor Howard reconvened the meeting.
XII.   Executive Session
Alderman Poole motioned, seconded by Alderman Powell to go into Executive
Session pursuant to G.S.143-318.11(a)(6) to discuss the City Manager
applicants. Motion carried 6-0
XIII.   Reconvene Regular Session - 4:00 p.m.
Alderman Karn motioned, seconded by Alderman Barnes to come out of Executive
Session. Motion carried 6-0.
Mayor Howard reported the interviews went well and a second round of interviews
will be scheduled towards the end of the month.
XIV.   Adjournment
Alderman Coring motioned, seconded by Alderman Barnes to adjourn the meeting.
 Motion carried 6-0.
________________________________
                         Mayor
____________________________
               Clerk   
FEBRUARY 9, 2012
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN            REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
FEBRUARY 9, 2012             6:30 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS(CITY HALL) SOUTHPORT, N. C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Todd Coring, Ken Karn, Mary Ellen Poole, Buddy Barnes,
         Nelson Adams, Jim Powell
STAFF PRESENT:   Regina W. Alexander, Interim City Manager/MMC-City Clerk
         Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
         Michele Windham, Deputy City Clerk
         Amy Nelson, Planning Director
         Neal Sage, Rescue Squad Chief
         Cindy Brochure, Tourism & Economic Development Director
         Jim Philyaw, Finance Director
         Jerry Dove, Chief of Police
I.   Call to Order - 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
II.   Invocation
Alderman Adams spoke a welcome
Reverend Charles Drew, Lighthouse Pentecostal Church, pronounced the
invocation.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Howard stated if any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.
III.   Approval of Tentative Consent Agenda
Alderman Poole motioned, seconded by Alderman Barnes to approve the Tentative
Consent Agenda. Motion passed 6-0.
1.   Minutes:   January 12, 2012 Regular Meeting
         January 13, 2012 Recessed Meeting
         January 28, 2012 Recessed Meeting
2.   RESOLUTION TO ENDORSE EARTH HOUR in Southport March 31, 2012, 8:30 - 9:30
p.m.
RESOLUTION TO ENDORSE EARTH HOUR
Southport, North Carolina depends on the planet for resources and, likewise,
the health of the planet depends on good stewardship. Good stewardship of our
land, water, air, beaches, flora and fauna contributes to a healthy environment
in which to live, work and play. It also creates a desirable destination for
visitors and tourists. This contributes also to financial health.
WHEREAS, to focus the Citys attention on positive actions for the environment,
residents, governments, businesses, and organizations are hereby asked to join
together to celebrate Earth Hour 2012, and;
WHEREAS, Earth Hour 2012 participants commit to switching off all non-essential
lights from 8:30 p.m. to 9:30 p.m. to raise awareness of earths challenges,
and;
WHEREAS, participants come together to create activities in support of the
environment during Earth Hour, and;
WHEREAS, participants commit to going beyond Earth Hour to reduce their
environmental impact and find solutions to our environmental challenges by
adopting environmentally sustainable lifestyle habits and business practices on
an ongoing basis, and;
WHEREAS, official support of the Board of Aldermen qualifies Southport as an
official Earth Hour city, and;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport that Saturday, the 31st of March, 2012, from 8:30 PM to 9:30 PM, is
hereby proclaimed as: EARTH HOUR IN SOUTHPORT, NORTH CAROLINA;
This the 9th day of February, 2012
/s/ Robert D. Howard
Mayor
Attest: Regina W. Alexander, MMC
     Clerk to the Board   
3.   Annual Certification of Firefighters
The Southport Fire Department Roster included as an attachment.
4.   RFPs for Renovation of the Visitors Center and Southport Museum at Fort
Johnston Garrison House
Building Repairs
$   Wayne Smith & Son, Inc.      Interior      $ 10,800.00
                  Exterior   $ 9,500.00
$   Stiller Construction         Interior    $ 26,320.00
                  Exterior    $ 13,800.00
$   Tatum Construction, Inc.      Interior Only   $ 12,000.00
Award To:   Wayne Smith & Son, Inc.
Electrical Repairs
$   Foust Electric                  $ 455.00
$   Robert Prince Electrical Services, Inc.         $ 665.00
Award To:   Foust Electric
HVAC
$   Mansfield Bros. Htg. & A/C, Inc.         $ 8,450.00
$   Tanners Heating & A/C            $ 6,480.00
Award To:   Tanners Heating & A/C
Note:   Electrical for HVAC not included in quote. Estimated cost $1,000.00
Security System
$   A Wolf Company, Inc.          Est.    $10,000 - $ 15,000.00
No award made
Items moved from Visitor Center to Garrison
$   Wayne Smith & Son, Inc.    $ 85/Hr.
Estimate 8 hours or less
Award To:   Wayne Smith & Son, Inc.
5.   Agreement between Downtown Southport, Inc. (DSI) and City of Southport for
use of the Garrison Lawn for their Annual Farmers Market
AGREEMENT
CITY OF SOUTHPORT AND DOWNTOWN SOUTHPORT, INC.
This Agreement made and entered into this 9th day of February, 2012 by and
between the City of Southport and Downtown Southport Inc. (DSI)
1.   The City of Southport agrees that DSI may use the Fort Johnston Garrison
lawn for its Farmers Market on Wednesdays beginning May 2012 until it concludes
October 2012.
2.   It is mutually agreed upon that DSI will pay the amount of $25 per week
for use of the Garrison Lawn.
3.   It is also agreed upon that this Agreement is in effect until the end
October 2012 and will be re-negotiated for 2013.
4.   It is further agreed that DSI will contribute funds to the City of
Southport to assist with beautification projects for use of the Garrison lawn.
5.   It is hereby mutually agreed that DSI shall be responsible for any damage
to the Fort Johnston Garrison Lawn resulting from its use thereof.
6.   DSI does hereby agree to indemnity and save harmless the City of Southport
and its officers, officials, employees and agents from and against any and all
suits, claims, loss, cost, injuries, damages, charges, liability or expense
whatsoever, including court costs and attorney fees, which they may sustain or
be put to by reason of this agreement and DSIs use of the Garrison Lawn for the
Farmers Market or other purpose.
Now, therefore in consideration of the mutual terms set forth, it is hereby
agreed to these terms and conditions by Downtown Southport Inc. and the City of
Southport, N.C.
CITY OF SOUTHPORT
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
Interim City Manager
DOWNTOWN SOUTHPORT INC.
/s/ Peggy Popelars
DSI President
6.   Budget Amendment #4 Recognizing funds to be received from the North
Carolina League of Municipalities (NCLM) to purchase body armor for one new
police officer
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, NC assembled
in regular session February 9, 2012, that the following Budget Amendment be
adopted for:
1.)   RECOGNIZING FUNDS TO BE RECEIVED FROM THE NORTH CAROLINA LEAGUE OF
MUNICIPALITIES (NCLM) to purchase body armor for one new officer. (Other two
body armors to be funded from Police Department Budget).
POLICE DEPARTMENT
               Budget         Budget As
               Amendment      Amended
               Increase (Decrease)
Section #1
A.   Revenue Anticipated
NCLM-RMS Safety Grant      $ 625         $ 625
B.   Appropriated Expenditures
Equipment Purchases         $ 625         $ 3,125
ADOPTED this the 9 th day of February, 2012
/s/ Robert D. Howard
Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
Clerk
IV.   Approval of Agenda
Mayor Howard requested addition of a presentation by the Brunswick Arts
Council, A Charles Dickens Christmas as X. New Business Item 1.
Alderman Barnes motioned, seconded by Alderman Poole to approve the agenda as
amended. Motion carried 6-0.
V.   Public Comments
Ms. Mary Friend, 306 Herring Drive, spoke about debris from Northwood Cemetery
blowing unto her property, neglected plots and creation of a volunteer group to
do cleanups at the cemetery.
VI.   Committee Reports
a)   Website Committee
b)   Utility Committee
Alderman Powell reported the Utility Committee met January 11, 2012:
$   Discussed the Central Pump Station meter readings of Hydrogen Sulfide;
readings are down from 200 parts per million December 8, 2011 through February
2, 2012 to 6 parts per million currently.
$   Held discussion regarding the Sacred Heart Catholic Church.
$   Committee supported issuance of a letter from the Public Service Director
to restaurants about grease traps.
$   Mr. Cecil Rhodes, ElectriCities met with committee members and provided an
update. Mr. Rhodes reported no changes would be made to rates until 2015.
$   Committee reviewed the Highland Park Subdivision proposed sewer; individual
home grinder pump system. Committee recommended system be redesigned to a
gravity feed system as the grinder pump system has not been used in Southport
for over 30 years and the risk of an overflow in a storm situation is
unacceptable.
$   Committee discussed heavy truck traffic on Jabbertown Road and recommended
opening a new dialogue with involved parties to determine if a separate access
road could be put in place.
$   Committee recommends purchase of portable scrubbers; $7,500 each, can be
tested for 120 and if not satisfied can be returned.
Alderman Powell motioned on behalf of the Utility Committee to authorize
expenditure of up to $15,000 from the Public Services capital expenditure fund
for the purpose of purchasing two scrubbers. Motion carried 6-0.
c)   Rate Committee
Alderman Barnes gave the committee report. The committee met to discuss rates
charged for rental of the Community Building. The committee recommended:
1.   No change in current published rates for rentals.
2.   Addition to the rates:
   A.   Each rental must be accompanied by a $200 cleaning deposit
   B.   A charge of $150 flat fee per event to use the kitchen. Fee will cover
kitchen water and electricity, maintenance, upkeep and replacement of kitchen
appliances. Committee also recommended installing locks on the kitchen doors
3.   Request City Manager acquire pricing for new kitchen appliances:
commercial grade, 2 door, stainless steel refrigerator; icemaker; commercial
grade microwave oven.
4.   Appointment of a committee to study the feasibility of making the
Community Building a stand-alone segment of City government.
Alderman Barnes motioned on behalf of the Rate Committee to adopt the committee
recommendation for Item 4 above; appointment of a committee to study the
feasibility of making the Community Building a stand-alone segment of City
government.
Ayes:   Aldermen Barnes, Powell, Coring, Poole
Nay:   Aldermen Karn, Adams
Motion carried 4-2   
Board consensus to authorize the City Manager to acquire pricing for new
appliances for the Community Building.
d)   City Manager Search Committee
Alderman Poole reported that a decision on the City Manager will be made within
a matter of days.
VII.   Departmental Reports (Included in agenda packet).
Police Chief, Jerry Dove, invited Board members and citizens to attend a
February 13, 10:00 a.m. presentation on surveillance equipment; i.e. cameras.
VIII.   Public Hearing
a)   Consideration of City Policy for Removal of Dead Flowers in City
Cemeteries
Alderman Barnes motioned, seconded by Alderman Karn to go into Public Hearing.
Motion carried 6-0.
Ms. Roberta Dosher, 310 West Moore Street, spoke in support of the Historical
Society request.
Ms. Muzette Steck, 4435 Willow Moss Way, discussed the types of seasonal items
(wreaths, etc.) that need to be removed from the City cemeteries. She indicated
many people have contacted her and offered assistance in keeping the cemeteries
clean and she spoke about the misconception by many that the City has a
cemetery caretaker.
Ms. Mary Friend, 306 Herring Drive, spoke about the dangers of the wiring in
artificial flowers and she offered to help.
    Mayor Howard pointed out the Code of Ordinances, Chapter 5 Cemeteries
provides for removal of debris.
Alderman Adams motioned, seconded by Alderman Coring to close the Public
Hearing.  Motion carried 6-0.
IX.   Old Business
1)   Consideration of approval to remove dead flowers in cemeteries.
Alderman Barnes motioned, seconded by Aldermen Coring to authorize the
Historical Society to remove abandoned/dead flowers and decorations. Motion
carried 6-0.
X.   New Business
1)   Charles Dickens Christmas
Jeannette Serens, Brunswick Arts Council, made a PowerPoint presentation of a
proposed Charles Dickens Christmas  two day event to be held throughout
downtown Southport November 30 and December 1, 2012.
Alderman Karn motioned, seconded by Alderman Powell to table consideration of
the Charles Dickens Christmas until the annual Board Retreat and directed staff
to provide cost estimates for each department involved in the event. Motion
carried 6-0.
BREAK - 7:43
RECONVENE REGULAR SESSION - 7:49
2)   Consideration of the Whittlers Bench Renovation
Mr. Bobby Thorsen, member of the Sons and Daughters of the Cape Fear (over
1,100 members) proposed planting a 20 ft. Cedar tree at the Whittlers Bench and
making repairs to the bench at no cost to the City. The work would be overseen
by Mr. Tim Stiller a licensed master building contractor.   Board Consensus to
hold a public hearing during the March regular Board meeting to receive input
from the citizens of the community.
3)   Consideration of approval for Highland Park Subdivision, Preliminary Plat,
Phase I
Referred back to staff based on recommendation of the Utility Committee.
4)   Consideration of Amendment to City Ordinance Section 11-13 (A) to reflect
recent legislative changes regarding concealed handguns in parks   
Attorney Isenberg explained the North Carolina State Legislature changes to the
General Statutes gun laws.
Alderman Karn motioned, seconded by Alderman Poole to amend the Code of
Ordinances, Section 11-13 Concealed handguns (a) & (b). Motion carried 6-0.
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 11-13. CONCEALED HANDGUNS OF THE CODE OF
ORDINANCES
BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport that Section
11-13(a) & (b) of the Code of Ordinances is hereby amended to read as follows:
Sec. 11-13. Concealed handguns.
(a)   Pursuant to G.S. 14-269, G.S. 14-415.11 and G.S. 14-415.23, it shall be
unlawful for any person willfully and intentionally to carry a concealed
handgun for which a permit has been issued pursuant to G.S. 14-415.11 into and
onto all municipal buildings and their appurtenant premises and the following
recreational facilities: Fort Johnston Playground, Lowe-White Park and Caviness
Park.
(b)   An appropriate posting of this prohibition shall be posted on all
buildings and recreational facilities designated above.
This is the 9 th day of February, 2012.
      City of Southport
/s/ Robert D. Howard
Mayor
ATTEST: Regina W. Alexander, MMC
Clerk   
5)   Discussion of the policies, statutes, and procedures for action taken by
the Board of Aldermen and the obstruction of board action   
Discussion deferred to a recessed session.
6)   Discussion with possible referral to Committee (special to be formed or
the Rate Committee) regarding the adjustment or elimination of fees for use of
City buildings
Item addressed during Committee Reports; Rate Committee, Item 1.
XI.   Other Business
1)   Discussion and possible Board action on Southport Rescue Squad Referendum
Alderman Poole motioned, seconded by Alderman Barnes to adopt a Resolution
Pursuant to G.S. 160A-209(e) Calling for Referendum for Approval of Property
Tax Levy to Support Southport Rescue Squad and to establish a committee to
provide public information in reference to the referendum.
Ayes:   Alderman Poole, Barnes, Coring, Powell, Karn
Nay:   Alderman Adams
RESOLUTION PURSUANT TO G. S. 160A-209(e) CALLING FOR REFERENDUM FOR APPROVAL OF
PROPERTY TAX LEVY TO SUPPORT SOUTHPORT RESCUE SQUAD
THAT WHEREAS, G. S. 160A-209(e) authorizes cities to call for a referendum
regarding the approval of a property tax levy for those purposes set forth in
G. S. 160A-209(c); and
WHEREAS, ambulance services, rescue squads and other emergency medical services
is such a purpose set forth in G. S. 160A-209(c); and
WHEREAS, the Southport Board of Aldermen wishes to allow the citizens of
Southport to vote on the approval of a property tax levy for the purpose of
supporting the Southport Rescue Squad;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Southport Board of Aldermen as follows:
1. That the Board of Aldermen hereby calls for a referendum on the following
issue:
Shall the City of Southport be authorized to levy annually a property tax at a
rate not in excess of that which will produce $ 124,000.00 for the purpose of
providing ambulance services, rescue squads and other emergency medical
services?
2. That, pursuant to G. S. 163-302, absentee voting in this referendum shall be
permitted.
3. That the City hereby requests the Brunswick County Board of Elections to
conduct said referendum in accordance with G.S. 160A-209 (e) on August 7, 2012,
or as soon thereafter as possible.
4. That the Mayor of the City of Southport shall confer with the Board of
Elections to schedule and coordinate said referendum pursuant to North Carolina
law.
This the 9 th day of February, 2012.
City of Southport
/s/ Robert D. Howard
Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
Clerk
Recess
The meeting was recessed at 8:35 p.m. until February 14, 2012, 5:00 p.m
/s/ Robert D. Howard
Mayor
Attest: /s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
               Clerk
FEBRUARY 14, 2012
RECESSED MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN            RECESSED MEETING MINUTES
FEBRUARY 14, 2012            5:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS(CITY HALL) SOUTHPORT, N. C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Jim Powell, Ken Karn, Todd Coring, Nelson Adams
         Mary Ellen Poole, Buddy Barnes
STAFF PRESENT:   Regina Alexander, Interim City Manager
         Michele Windham, Deputy City Clerk
         Jerry Dove, Police Chief
I.   Call to Order - 5:00 p.m.
Mayor Howard called the continuation of the February 9, 2012 regular meeting to
order at 5:00 p.m.
II.   Invocation
Alderman Adams spoke a welcome
Police Chief Jerry Dove pronounced the invocation.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Howard stated if any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.
III.   Approval of Agenda
Mayor Howard requested addition to the agenda; consideration of a contract with
Patrick A. Thomas. Alderman Poole motioned, seconded by Alderman Powell to
amend the agenda.  Motion carried 6-0.
IV.   New Business
Alderman Poole motioned, seconded by Alderman Barnes to enter into a contract
with Patrick A. Thomas for City Manager as presented.  
(Contract incorporated as attachment to the minutes)
A roll call vote was taken by the Deputy City Clerk. Motion carried 6-0.
Mayor Howard and the Board moved to the open floor as the Mayor read an
official press release and a bio of Mr. Thomas. Mayor Howard presented Mr.
Thomas will a City lapel pin.
Mr. Thomas expressed his appreciation for being chosen for the position, his
delight to be coming to Southport, and his commitment to future successes.
Mayor Howard praised Regina Alexander for her service as Interim City Manager.
V.   Old Business
At the recommendation of the Rate Committee, Alderman Barnes requested the City
Manager to compile a list of non-profit organizations that use City facilities
for non fund raising events for consideration of waiving the rental fees by the
Board at the February 25 Retreat.
Alderman Powell motioned, seconded by Alderman Poole to rescind the January 9
vote to contract with Vision Internet and postpone discussion and possible
action to the February 25 Retreat.
Ayes:   Alderman Powell, Poole, Adams, Barnes, Coring
Nay:   Alderman Karn
Motion carried 5-1.
Alderman Coring requested attendance of Eileen Hennessey, City IT consultant,
at the retreat.
Discussion of policies, statutes, and procedures for action taken by the Board
of Aldermen and the obstruction of Board action
The Board discussed policies, statutes, and procedures put into place by the
Board. Discussion emphasis was on conflict resolution, open government and
transparency. No action was taken.
Discussion of agenda for the Boards Annual Retreat (to be held at Emergency
Operations Center, February 25, 2012)
Manager Alexander advised the Board arrangements had been made for the public
to have access to the Retreat at the Emergency Operations Center at Fire
Headquarters, departments will provide their accomplishments and projections
for the coming year, Mr. Paul Fisher will present an update on Electricities
and the auditors will be attending. Several items requested for the agenda
were: Riverfront Study, Attorney Agreement, Website Contract, City Clean-up,
and Southport facilities spatial analysis. Board consensus a facilitator would
not be required.
VI.   City Manager Comments
Manager Alexander expressed appreciation for the support she received from the
Board, department heads and staff during her time as Interim City Manager. She
supported the choice the Board made in hiring Pat Thomas as the new City
Manager.
VII.   Board Comments
Alderman Coring recognized the Womens Club work with the area schools annual
Art Show and he praised the artwork being temporarily displayed in City Hall.
Alderman Coring expressed admiration to the Southport Rescue Squad for
receiving high marks on the upkeep of their equipment from the State Office of
Emergency Services.
VIII.   Adjournment
Alderman Coring motioned, seconded by Alderman Poole to adjourn the meeting at
5:57 p.m.  Motion carried 6-0.
/s/ Robert D. Howard
   Mayor
Attest: /s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
   Clerk
FEBRUARY 25, 2012
RETREAT MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN                      RETREAT MEETING MINUTES
FEBRUARY 25, 2012                      8:00 A.M.
1011 N. HOWE STREET(FIRE HEADQUARTERS) SOUTHPORT, N. C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Jim Powell, Ken Karn, Todd Coring,
         Mary Ellen Poole, Buddy Barnes
ABSENT:      Nelson Adams
STAFF PRESENT:   Regina Alexander, Interim City Manager
         Pat Thomas, Incoming City Manager
         Michele Windham, Deputy City Clerk
         Jerry Dove, Police Chief
         Amy Nelson, Planning Director
         Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
         Jim Philyaw, Finance Director
         Bob Grant, Public Service Director
         Greg Cumbee, Fire Chief
         Neal Sage, Rescue Squad Chief
         Cindy Brochure, Tourism & Economic Dev. Director
            
I.   Call to Order - 8:00 a.m.
   Mayor Howard called the Retreat to order at 8:00 a.m.
II.   Invocation
   Mayor Howard gave the invocation.
   ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Howard stated “if any member of the Board knows of
any conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with
respect to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
III.   Welcome and Overview of Objectives
   Mayor Howard stated the Retreat would also serve as a work session to
address pending items. He stated departmental presentations were divided into
groups to eliminate the need for staff to stay the entire day.
   Mayor Howard indicated he and Attorney Isenberg had spoken with Senator
Rabon regarding an emergency traffic signal at the fire station, Tourism
Development Authority legislation, and a City volunteer serving as a Board
member.
   Mayor Howard reported the North Carolina Department of Transportation
(NCDOT) had approved an emergency signal in front of the fire department
headquarters to be used by
fire vehicles and Dosher Memorial Hospital emergency vehicles.
 
   Mayor Howard pointed out that State statutes would not permit a city
employee to serve on the Board of Aldermen; however, a city volunteer can serve
on the Board. He indicated the practice is occurring across the State.
   Mayor Howard requested an addition to the agenda for consideration of
authorization for the actual cost of two (2) scrubbers for the Public Services
Department in the amount of $15,900 and an Executive Session to discuss budget
matters, and the City Manager position.
    Mayor Howard stated an update on the request from Mr. Frank Marchetti for
an easement at Bay Street and Atlantic Avenue will be given during the Planning
& Zoning departmental report.
   Manager Alexander pointed out that ten (10) of the fifteen 2011 Board
Retreat initiatives had been addressed and the others were on-going.
   A)   Menton Padgett, City Auditor
   Attendance of auditors cancelled.
   B)   Paul Fisher, ElectriCities Update
   Mr. Paul Fisher, City appointed ElectriCities representative, explained the
North Carolina Eastern Municipal Power Agency (NCEMPA); 32 cities, including
Southport, own a portion of five (5) electric generating plants - three (3)
nuclear, two (2) coal fired; the current debt is 2.9 billion, 1.5 billion paid
since 1993; Southport’s share of debt is 15 million which will be paid in 2026;
the average monthly residential electric bill is $110.30. Mr. Fisher encouraged
Southport to endorse the three (3) “E’s”: environment, economy and energy
revolution. He proposed goals for consideration; i.e., establish program to
conserve energy, keep system in top shape, put system underground, switch to
alternative sources of energy.
   In response to concerns raised by Mayor Howard, Mr. Fisher indicated the
Agency has voted not to enter into any further debt and any increase in the
debt of the Agency would have to be voted on by all 32 cities. The Agency is
required to maintain a capital fund, not less than 5 million, for a
catastrophic event. The fund is currently 55 million.
   The potential impact of the merger of Progress Energy and Duke Power was
discussed by the Board.
   Manager Alexander explained an invitation was extended to Brunswick Electric
Membership Corporation (BEMC) to attend the retreat but BEMC representatives
had a scheduling conflict. A meeting with BEMC will be scheduled after arrival
of the new City Manager.
   Mayor Howard recommended the Rate Committee review the City’s electric rate
structure and reduce the number of rates. He emphasized the City setting an
example by being conservative and the importance of updating the 10 year plan.
The Board discussed development of an underground master plan, natural gas
availability and the load management program.
IV.   City Departments’ Visioning, Goals and Mission
a)   Finance Department
   Finance Director, Jim Philyaw, gave an overview of fiscal year 2012-2013
goals and objectives, purchase order and credit card policies and procedures,
and enterprise funds (detailed information provided in Board agenda packet).
Mr. Philyaw presented a financial summary for the periods ending February 17,
2012. He stated the unaudited General Fund balance is $1,604,189, Electric Fund
$2,434,086, Water/Sewer Fund $2,204,760.
   Mr. Philyaw indicated the property tax collection rate is projected to be
behind last years’ collection rate, 95.48%, due to the County performing
collections. He noted that cities historically do a better job collecting taxes
than counties. Manager Alexander pointed out having the County collect the
taxes was an initiative of the Board during the 2011 Retreat and a
recommendation of staff to try for one year to determine if it was best for the
City. Manager Alexander stated staff will analyze the County versus City
collection and report back to the Board during budget deliberations.
   Mr. Philyaw discussed the City’s purchasing power, projection of revenues
not anticipating a budget shortfall, and all departments being within budget.
He is working on a cost allocation for all departments in order to determine
what it costs to run each department. He commented on several goals and
objectives:
   •   Cross train department employees,
   •   Credit card use for small purchases, emergency basis when a vendor will
not accept invoicing,
   •   Finance department have complete control over purchase orders,
   •   Purchase of a new laser printer,
   •   Determine feasibility of connecting all departments to financial
software to view and monitor their budget,
   •   Modify the utility billing collection system to allow reading of all
meters monthly for all active and inactive customers to assure electricity,
water and sewer are not being acquired illegally,
   •   Develop procedures to require all contracts be issued on a fiscal year.
   The Board discussed and reached a consensus to direct staff to pursue a
zero-based budget during the 2012/2013 budget process.
   Alderman Powell motioned, seconded by Alderman Karn to authorize the
expenditure of $16,000 including shipping and handling for purchase of the
previously approved two (2) scrubbers for the Public Services Department.
Motion carried 5-0.
b)   Planning
   Planning Director Amy Nelson gave an overview of goals for 2012/2013:
   •   Update of ordinances; tree protection/preservation, telecommunications,
fire code, etc..
   •   Revision of fire inspection fees and implementation of a fee for zoning
letters,
   •   Removal of two (2) dilapidated houses on Caswell Avenue,
   •   Pedestrian refuge/island at Moore and Davis Streets; estimated $4,000 -
$30,000,
   •   Part-time position to cover animal control,
   •   Expansion of current National Register of Historic District; Southport
has more than 50% of the County’s resources, homeowners get tax credits and
property values increase,
   Ms. Nelson discussed telecommunications revenue opportunities, addition of
curb extensions and bulb outs to new sidewalks planned with the $90,000 grant
awarded through Safe Routes to School. Mayor Howard recommended a meeting of
the Utility Committee and staff to prepare a specific recommendation to the
Board
   Mayor Howard suggested scheduling a special meeting to hear a presentation
from the State, County, and Planning staff regarding the Southport Historic
District expansion.
   Ms. Nelson and Parks and Recreation Director Heather Hemphill provided a
handout on Pocket Parks:   
      “Public spaces that utilize vacant building sites, small or irregularly
shaped parcel providing space for passive activities.”
   Ms. Nelson discussed and displayed an image of an area at the end of
Atlantic Avenue at Bay Street, currently a Coastal Area Management Act (CAMA)
public right of way and small pocket park. Ms. Nelson stated Mr. Frank
Marchetti, 302 E. Bay Street has requested use of a portion of the property as
a driveway. Ms. Nelson stated Mr. Marchetti has space for parking on Bay
Street. Ms. Nelson and Ms. Hemphill talked about the public perception and
safety concerns if permitting Mr. Marchetti’s request. Ms. Nelson and Ms.
Hemphill recommended no access be granted.
   Alderman Powell motioned, seconded by Alderman Barnes to deny access per
staff recommendation. Motion carried 5-0.
   Ms. Nelson discussed an opportunity to apply for a Public Beach and Coastal
Water Access Grant for potential land acquisition at the Yacht Basin.
   Ms. Hemphill and Ms. Nelson displayed a drawing of a Waterfront Park
proposal to raise the bulkhead, as recommended by CAMA, due to over wash by
increased ferry traffic. Ms. Hemphill explained the proposal included a wooden
boardwalk, bollards and chains similar to those at the Wilmington waterfront,
shade covers over the swings and improvements to the appearance of the park.
She estimated the cost would be $100,000 - $150,000, 70% of which would be for
bulkhead repairs.
   Responding to an inquiry from Alderman Poole, Ms. Nelson explained pursuing
Wayfinding Signs through North Carolina Department of Transportation (NCDOT)
had been put on hold pending revisions to the Sign Ordinance. Board consensus,
that staff to continue talks with NCDOT regarding Wayfinding Signs.   
c)   Parks & Recreation
   Parks and Recreation Director, Heather Hemphill, outlined the 2011/2012
Parks & Recreation Programs and Facilities:
   •   Special events: Concerts On Lawn, Capt. Charlie’s Fishing Tournament,
      Crab Derby, Movies on Lawn, Halloween Carnival, Santa’s Elves Workshop
   •   Recreation Programs: After-school Program, Summer Camp, Aerobics, Zumba
   •   Athletics: Youth Basketball, Youth & Adult Tennis Lessons, Basketball,
Gym Walking
   •   Seniors: Crafts, Cards, Luncheons, Bowling, Day/Overnight/Show Trips
   Facilities:   Franklin Square Park, City Pier, Waterfront Park, City Gym,
Keziah Park, Caviness Park, Kingsley Park, Riverwalk, Jaycee Building, Senior
Building, Lowe/White Park, Garrison Lawn, Ft. Johnston Playground & Tennis
Courts
   Ms. Hemphill emphasized the goal of the Parks & Recreation department is to
provide quality, affordable programs to the citizens of Southport. She
discussed future capital improvement needs and working with the Beautification
Committee on enhancements to the city parks.
   Ms. Hemphill gave an update on Stevens Park:
      •   Environmental assessment performed, initial report that there was
navigable water on the property, further study determined not to be the case.
      •   Recommendation from civil engineering firm HadenStanziale to purchase
property bisecting two (2) city owned parcels.
   Ms. Hemphill was directed by the Mayor to provide a survey to the Board of
the property recommended for purchase.
   Ms. Hemphill discussed the age and mowing radius of the department’s mowing
equipment; Kabota 20 years old, two others seven (7) years old with 71 inch
span and the need to purchase a 48" mower to properly mow the cemeteries.
   Alderman Powell talked about a past program of trading in mowers on a
regular basis.
   Mayor Howard pointed out the Board had mandated cleaning the City and
maintaining it either by contracting out mowing or providing sufficient
equipment and city personnel. He suggested staff bring a recommendation to the
Board during the budget process.
   In response to a question from Alderman Karn, Ms. Hemphill recommended
moving the Moore Street playground to perpendicular with the Southport Maritime
Museum building, estimated cost $15,000 to reconfigure and replace outdated
equipment.
   Ms. Hemphill discussed vandalism occurring at the Garrison House restrooms
and she estimated a state-of-the-art vandal resistant facility would cost
approximately $200,000. The Board discussed incorporating a vandal resistant
restroom with the parking area planned to replace the tennis courts on East
Moore Street or at the current visitor center building.
   Mayor Howard questioned if the removal of the tennis courts was settled with
the public. Alderman Poole expressed her concern that the issue was not and
that public restrooms would be better placed at the visitor center. Mayor
Howard suggested the State Port Pilot conduct a poll regarding removal of the
tennis courts.
d)   Police
   Police Chief Jerry Dove discussed:
   •   Desire to replace four (4) patrol cars and install cameras in each
vehicle at an estimated cost of $5,000 per camera,
   •   Pursuing a Homeland Security grant to purchase five (5) cameras,
estimated cost $14,700 which will be placed in strategic locations throughout
the City and monitored by the department,
   •   Southport will receive portable and vehicle radios from Brunswick County
as part of the transition to the Viper Radio System,
   •   The need to upgrade the computer system for the department; new file
server and software data base backup.
   Chief Dove spoke about the department’s outreach programs.
e)   Tourism
   Ms. Cindy Brochure, Director of Tourism & Economic Development, highlighted
the department’s 2011/2012 accomplishments and 2012/2013 goals as detailed in
information provided in the Board Retreat agenda. She discussed the new Fort
Johnston Museum project emphasizing it will be a keystone attraction for the
City and a potential revenue stream, the Community Building maintenance needs,
departmental staffing, and the continuation of the City’s involvement in the
State’s Main Street Program. Ms. Brochure pointed out that Downtown Southport
Inc. (DSI) had pulled out of the program because it could not afford the
required paid director position. Ms. Brochure discussed the advantages of
participation in the program and she noted the City would need a designated
staff member to coordinate the program.
   Alderman Poole motioned, seconded by Alderman Powell to refer back to staff
The Resolution in Support of the City of Southport’s Designation as a North
Carolina Main Street Designation. Motion passed 5-0.
f)   Public Services
   Interim Public Services Director, Bob Grant, reported:
   •   Electric system pole replacement project is on-going,
   •   Electric Meter Update Program has moved into Phase II with a line loss
decrease of 4% realized from the program,
   •   Load Management Audit Program is continuing,
   •   Emphasis will continue on the city’s FOG program,
   •   Monitoring of the wastewater loan repayment and costs of wastewater
treatment and water purchase as related to the water/sewer rate structure,
   •   Strategy will be developed for debris removal at the decommissioned
waste water treatment plant,
   •   Continue to identify and address wastewater system I & I issues,
   •   Continue to monitor funding opportunities to stabilize the Bay Street
Pump Station shoreline,
   •   Identify land for future Public Services Department complex,
   •   New departmental radios will need to be purchased due to January 1, 2013
bandwidth change, estimate $15,000,
   •   Consideration of purchase of a routing machine for installation of sewer
laterals close to buildings, funding available in current budget.
   Mr. Grant discussed the 122 years of service from 12 employees in the
department and he encouraged the City to renew focus on employee certification.
   Mr. Grant emphasized the impact rising fuel costs have on the Public
Services Department.
    Alderman Karn recommended reserving funds for the Bay Street Pump Station
Rock Revetment in preparation for the time when the Army Corps of Engineers
receive funding for the project. Mayor Howard directed staff to determine a
funding source.
g)   Rescue Squad
   Rescue Squad Chief Neal Sage reported:
   •   Rising fuel costs are a concern,
   •   Problems with the new County issued Viper Radios; problems expected to
be resolved when a tower is put up in Bolivia,
   •   Fund raising program with a corporate sponsor to purchase a mass
casualty trailer for 25 people. A demo trailer will be at squad headquarters
the second week of March.
   •   New CPR protocols initiated by Brunswick County involving continuous
chest compressions without giving breathing. Brunswick County is one of few
counties in the State using the new protocols. Southport Squad personnel have
gone through the required training for the new protocols.
   Mayor Howard announced the Referendum for the Rescue Squad had been
confirmed and approved by the Board of Elections for August 14.
h)   Fire Department
   Fire Chief Greg Cumbee provided an informational packet to the Board. He
updated the Board:
   •   Status of the new fire truck,
   •   Viper radio system required to keep the fire vehicles certified,
   •   Applied for a $50,000 matching grant with State Fire Association,
   •   Future need for a substation in the Rivermist Subdivision area,
   •   Anticipated budget submittal for a mini pumper four-wheel drive to
access hard to reach areas,
   •   Area served; 6 miles out from station with 9,600 people within the Fire
District,
   •   ISO rating, 4; detailed information provided in packet
   •   Recruitment; have 30 members, average membership 17.5 years
   Chief Cumbee presented the Board with an artist painting of the new fire
station. The rendering will be displayed at City Hall.
Lunch - 12:35 p.m.
Reconvene Regular Session - 1:17 p.m.
V.   Board of Aldermen Discussion
   Item discussions not held in order of appearance on agenda.
f)   Brunswick Arts Council Charles Dickens Christmas
   Tourism Director Cindy Brochure reported an informal poll of merchants were
in support of the proposed event. She presented an estimated cost to the city,
$4,400 for Police and Public Services personnel and her understanding the cost
would be paid by the Arts Council.
   Alderman Karn motioned, seconded by Alderman Coring to direct the City
Manager and staff to move forward with the program. Motion carried 5-0.
m)   Utility Committee (Catholic Church)
   Alderman Powell discussed providing sewer service to the Sacred Heart
Catholic Church, 5339 Dosher Cut-Off Road, and the need to hold discussions
with the Southeast Brunswick Sanitary District (SBSD) regarding the service
issues.
   Alderman Powell motioned, seconded by Alderman Poole to authorize an
engineering feasibility study for providing sewer service to the Sacred Heart
Catholic Church; not to exceed $3,500 per recommendation of the Utility
Committee. Motion carried 5-0.  
      Traffic & Transportation Committee
   Mayor Howard requested a consensus of the Board to allow Alderman Powell to
continue pursuing an easement from Progress Energy for a road that would take
truck traffic off Jabbertown Road, enhance emergency vehicle access and aide
evacuations. Consensus of Aldermen Coring, Karn, Barnes and Poole.
   Alderman Poole, who serves on the Traffic & Transportation Committee,
commented that the committee discussed the subject at length. She expressed her
opinion that Alderman Adams was very concerned about the issue.
   Alderman Powell motioned, seconded by Alderman Poole to add Norris, Kuske
and Tunstall to the City’s list of approved vendors for engineering services.
Motion carried 5-0.
k)   Website
   Mr. Brian Hennessey, a 25 year Information Technology Consultant and husband
of Eileen Hennessey, the city’s information technology consultant, reviewed the
Vision Internet design and maintenance agreement and hosting proposal for the
City’s new web page. He noted key points regarding proprietary software,
warranty, inconsistencies between the maintenance agreement and hosting
proposal, compatibility with I-Pads, backup responsibility, content rights, and
in his opinion a high monthly fee with an automatic 5% annual increase. Mr.
Hennessey recommended the City try the hosting service for a short term, i.e.
six months, which would give the City an opportunity to evaluate Vision
Internet and to opt out if unsatisfied.
RECESS - 3:15 p.m.
CALL TO ORDER - 3:30 p.m.
   Alderman Karn displayed the new City of Southport web page and indicated the
page was ready to go live. He demonstrated the links to city departments,
forms, applications, documents and he discussed the potential to include
software modules to allow for payment of water bills, etc.
   Alderman Barnes motioned, seconded by Alderman Karn to authorize a contract
with Vision Internet for web hosting services for a period of up to six (6)
months and to expend the applicable funds. Motion carried 5-0.
a)   City of Southport Facilities Assessment and Spatial Analysis
   Mayor Howard updated the Board on the facilities spatial analysis. He
presented a 2,400 sq. ft. conceptual plan, prepared by City employee and
licensed North Carolina Architect Connie Keller, that recommends housing the
Police Department in the old fire department on Nash Street, expansion of the
Rescue Squad Headquarters, and addition to the Code Enforcement building. The
plans calls for a connected facility and facade.
   Mayor Howard presented conceptual plans for the redesign of both floors of
City Hall to take better advantage of space, re-align Board chambers to
facilitate flow to office space and make City Hall ADA compliant.
   Mayor Howard discussed the planned phasing and relocation of employees to
other city buildings, i.e. old visitor center and jail annex, during
construction. He estimated $1.2 - 1.5 million to bring the buildings up to
standards. He noted the proposed plans did not take into consideration the
needs of the Public Services Department.
   Alderman Poole suggested addition of public restrooms behind the Code
Enforcement building and next to the Police Department to deter vandalism.
   Ms. Keller pointed out the space analysis was determined through in depth
interviews with City staff and their individual needs.
   Alderman Powell motioned, seconded by Alderman Barnes to proceed with the
proposed projects as presented, including development of construction drawings.
Motion carried 5-0.
b)   City Dock Repair and Maintenance
   Alderman Barnes discussed repairs needed to the City dock; unstable walking
surface, slips in disrepair, deteriorating pilings and water levels during low
tide. He pointed out that two accidents had occurred on the dock in the past
year. He stated he had researched grant opportunities contingent on providing
transient boat slips and he suggested adding transient boat slips and applying
for a Boating Infrastructure Grant.
   Alderman Barnes motioned, seconded by Alderman Karn to direct staff to
research grant opportunities and the feasibility of adding transient boat slips
with an emphasis on safety.
Motion carried 5-0.
c)   Opt Out Option for the City’s Health Insurance Program
   Alderman Powell suggested consideration of an opt out option for the City’s
health insurance program and used his situation as an example. Mr. Thomas
discussed several scenarios when an opt out option may be advantageous to the
City; employees on Social Security, spouse has insurance, insured under a
military insurance program, and he pointed out some jurisdictions offer the
option at a fractional level.
   Board consensus to direct staff to prepare a policy recommendation on the
feasibility of insurance opt out program and present during budget
consideration.
l)   Attorney Agreement
   Mayor Howard proposed establishing a procedure and designating a point
person for authorizing consultation with the city attorney. Mayor Howard noted
the attorney charges the City every time a Board member calls him. Mayor Howard
pointed out there are many options, i.e. City Clerk, City Manager and North
Carolina League of Municipalities for getting legal advice. Finance Director,
Jim Philyaw, stated the City had spent $67,000 for all attorneys fees during
the current fiscal year and $32,000 the prior year. Board consensus that staff
get itemized billing from the City Attorney. City Manager Alexander explained
that most of this cost was attributed to a contract Attorney representing the
City in a lawsuit.
d)   Resolution to Create a Tourism Development Authority   (TDA)
   Consideration of the resolution was withdrawn. Mayor Howard and Alderman
Karn pointed out that Senator Rabon was drafting legislation to bring the
city’s TDA in line with other cities and designation of occupancy tax funds for
a specific purpose.
h)   Equipment cost for Community Building and Rate Committee Proposal on fee
(s)
   Alderman Barnes presented a recommendation from the Rate Committee for
purchase of a commercial grade refrigerator, microwave oven and ice maker for
the Community Building. Prices were obtained from multiple vendors with
purchase recommended from Jacobi-Lewis Co., Wilmington, NC.
   Alderman Barnes motioned, seconded by Alderman Poole to appropriate up to
$7,500 to purchase a commercial grade refrigerator, microwave oven and ice
machine for the Community Building. Motion carried 5-0.
   Alderman Barnes presented a Rate Committee recommendation to adopt a per
event kitchen rental fee for the Community Building to provide for maintenance
and renewal of equipment. The committee also recommends installation of locks
on the kitchen doors.
   Alderman Barnes motioned, seconded by Alderman Powell to adopt a per event
$150 kitchen fee to the rental rate of the Community Building effective upon
arrival of new kitchen equipment.
Aye:   Aldermen Barnes, Poole, Powell and Coring
Nay:   Alderman Ken
Motion carried 4-1.
j)   Riverfront Study
   Mayor Howard discussed undertaking a study and implementing a master plan
for the riverfront from Kingsley Park to the Yacht Basin. He indicated there is
the potential to get Federal or State matching funds.
   Alderman Powell motioned, seconded by Alderman Barnes to allocate up to
$50,000 matching funds in the 2012-2013 budget for the purpose of conducting a
Riverfront Master Plan. Motion carried 5-0.
n)   Health Emergencies Plan
   Alderman Karn expressed his understanding that there is a procedure that has
not been put into place to deal with community wide health emergencies. He
recommended the in-coming City Manager and staff address the issue.
o)   City Clean-up
   Alderman Poole requested the City clean-up discussion be removed from the
agenda and placed on the agenda of a visionary Board meeting scheduled for
Saturday, March 10, 2012 at 8:00 a.m. in the Emergency Operations Center of the
Fire Department Headquarters.
Closed Session - 5:31 p.m.
   Alderman Powell motioned, seconded by Alderman Poole to go into a closed
session pursuant to G.S. 143-318.11 (6) Personnel Matters. Motion carried 5-0.
    
Reconvene Regular Session - 6:23 p.m.
   Alderman Barnes motioned, seconded by Alderman Powell to come out of closed
session. Motion carried 5-0.
   Mayor Howard stated the Board discussed several items with no decisions
being made.
   Alderman Powell motioned, seconded by Alderman Barnes to pay Pat Thomas for
his time at the retreat and any time he spends working on the City budget or on
the City’s behalf. Motion carried 5-0.
   Mayor Howard stated Board consensus was to freeze new City positions unless
otherwise paid for as departments prepare the 2012-2013 budget with the
exception of part-time positions for the City clean up effort.
VIII.   Adjournment
   Alderman Coring motioned, seconded by Alderman Powell to adjourn the meeting
at 6:28 p.m.  Motion carried 5-0.
                  _____________________________________
                      Robert D. Howard, Mayor         _
___________________________      
Regina W. Alexander, MMC
City Clerk
MARCH 8, 2012
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN            REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
MARCH 8, 2012                6:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS(CITY HALL) SOUTHPORT, N. C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Todd Coring, Ken Karn, Mary Ellen Poole, Buddy Barnes,
         Nelson Adams, Jim Powell
STAFF PRESENT:   Regina W. Alexander, Interim City Manager/MMC-City Clerk
         Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
         Michele Windham, Deputy City Clerk
         Amy Nelson, Planning Director
         Neal Sage, Rescue Squad Chief
         Jim Philyaw, Finance Director
         Jerry Dove, Chief of Police
         Greg Cumbee, Fire Chief
         Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
         
I.   Call to Order - 6:00 p.m.
   Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
II.   Invocation
   Alderman Barnes spoke a welcome.
A brief moment of silence was observed for the death of the mother of Wayne
Strickland, Southport Building Inspector.
   Police Chief Jerry Dove pronounced the invocation.
   ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Howard stated “if any member of the Board knows of
any conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with
respect to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
III.   Tentative Consent Agenda
   Alderman Powell motioned, seconded by Alderman Poole to approve the
Tentative Consent Agenda. Motion passed 6-0.
1.   Minutes:
      February 2 recessed session
      February 3 recessed session
      February 6 recessed session
      February 7 recessed session
      February 9 regular meeting
      February 14 recessed session
2.   ARBOR DAY PROCLAMATION
      ARBOR DAY PROCLAMATION
[Image]
 
WHEREAS, in 1972, J. Sterling Morton proposed to the Nebraska Board of
Agriculture that a special day be set aside for the planting of trees, and
WHEREAS, this holiday called Arbor Day, was first observed with the planting of
more than a million trees in Nebraska, and
WHEREAS, Arbor Day is now observed throughout the nation and the world, and
WHEREAS , trees can reduce the erosion of our precious topsoil by wind and
water, cut heating and cooling costs, moderate the temperature, clean the air,
produce life-giving oxygen, and provide habitat for wildlife, and
WHEREAS , trees are a renewable resource giving us paper, wood for our homes,
fuel for our fires, and beautify our community, and
WHEREAS, trees in our city increase property values, enhance the economic
vitality of business areas, and beautify our community, and
WHEREAS , trees wherever they are planted are a source of joy and spiritual
renewal.
NOW, THEREFORE, I Robert D. Howard, Mayor of the City of Southport, NC, do
hereby proclaim March 16, 2012 as ARBOR DAY in the City and urge all citizens
to celebrate and support efforts to protect our trees and woodlands, and
FURTHER, I urge all citizens to plant trees to gladden the heart and promote
the well-being of this and future generations.
DATED, this 8th day of March, 2012.   
                  /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
3.   Tax Release
 
BILL #   NAME & ACCOUNT        DATE    AMOUNT   VALUE    REASON FOR
PARCEL #                               RELEASED RELEASED RELEASE
3404     Walter David Knott II 2-16-12 46.32             Bankruptcy Approved
         814003324
 
TOTAL   46.32
 
4.   Demolition Resolution
AN ORDINANCE FINDING THAT A DWELLING LOCATED IN THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT VIOLATES
THE MINIMUM HOUSING CODE AND DIRECTING THAT SAID DWELLING BE DEMOLISHED
WHEREAS, the Southport Board of Aldermen finds that the building on property
described herein is classified as unfit for human habitation in accordance with
the minimum housing standards included in the City of Southport Minimum Housing
Code Ordinance; and
WHEREAS, all hearings and orders, notifications, and other actions prescribed
in said Minimum Housing Code Ordinance and in N.C.G.S 160A-443 have been
accomplished prior to adoption of this ordinance; and
WHEREAS, the owners of the dwelling located on the property described herein
have been given reasonable opportunity to bring the dwelling into conformity
with the Minimum Housing Code; and
WHEREAS, the dwelling located on property described herein can not be repaired
at a reasonable cost relative to its value, and should therefore be demolished.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN OF THE CITY OF
SOUTHPORT, NORTH CAROLINA:
Section 1: That the Code Enforcement Officer of the City of Southport is hereby
authorized and directed to demolish the dwelling located in the City of
Southport at the following location:
   Property Owner Name   Location of Property      Parcel Number
   James F. Clemmons Jr.   607 North Caswell Avenue   237EC017
Section 2: That this ordinance shall be recorded in the Office of the Register
of Deeds of Brunswick County. This ordinance shall become effective on March 8,
2012.
                           
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
5.   City of Southport Volunteer Appreciation Week Resolution
RESOLUTION
CITY OF SOUTHPORT
VOLUNTEER APPRECIATION WEEK
WHEREAS, to encourage an environment in which volunteers can flourish, the City
of Southport Board of Aldermen have adopted the goal of continuing a program
that promotes community organizations and encourages volunteerism; and
WHEREAS, City of Southport is often called the community of volunteers; and
WHEREAS, our City could not function without volunteers who serve the Southport
Visitor’s Center, Dosher Hospital, NC Maritime Museum, Ft. Johnston/Southport
Museum, and many other Southport boards, commissions, task forces and
committees; and
WHEREAS, everyday, volunteers help shape the policies that keep our City
heading in the right direction and their impact can be felt throughout the
community; and
WHEREAS, there are thousands of volunteers in our community who give their time
and effort to help others through their church, community organizations,
service clubs, schools, hospitals, charitable organizations and other worthy
endeavors; and
WHEREAS, volunteers are motivated by the simple satisfaction of helping their
fellow citizens and making their community a better place to live.
NOW THEREFORE, I, Robert Howard, Mayor of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, in the county of Brunswick, do hereby resolve and proclaim March 18 -
March 24 as “Volunteer Appreciation Week” in the City of Southport to honor the
hard work and selfless dedication of the thousands of volunteers who serve the
city and the community.
ADOPTED by the City of Southport Board of Aldermen this 8th day of March, 2012.
                        s/ Robert D. Howard
                        Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
         Clerk
IV.   Approval of Agenda
   Mayor Howard requested addition of a Closed Session to discuss property
acquisition consideration, personnel matters and a contract with Brunswick
Community College.
Alderman Poole motioned, seconded by Alderman Karn to approve the agenda as
amended. Motion carried 6-0.
V.   Public Comments
   Mr. Woody Wilson, 502 W. Brunswick Street, read a statement into the minutes
regarding the Board of Aldermen February 25 Retreat:
   On Saturday February 25 I attended the entire Board of Aldermen Retreat
except for the closed session.
   What I have to say tonight may be considered sour grapes by some, but it
must be said none the less. To say I was appalled at what I witnessed is an
understatement. The fact that this Retreat Session did not resemble any Retreat
I have ever witnessed or attended is a moot point.
   Based upon the fact that the Mayor set the precedent for allowing
individuals addressing the Board to address individual Aldermen, I claim that
right for just this session of public comments tonight.
   The fact that the Mayor allowed one of our Aldermen to be addressed directly
as an individual in such a hostile and confrontational manner is completely
unacceptable as a form of governance. The Mayor allowed this inquisition to
continue beyond reason and did nothing to control the situation. There is not
one of you sitting here tonight who would want to be treated as Alderman Karn
was during the discussion of our city’s new website contract. Yet, all of you
sat there and failed to act in a prudent manner in accordance with your adopted
Suggested Rules of Procedure and Code of Ethics. With the exception of Alderman
Adams who was not in attendance, every one of you allowed this action to take
place, therefore putting your stamp of tacit approval on the process. I submit
that you all need to look yourself in the mirror and ask yourself if you are
satisfied that you upheld your oath of office and executed your
responsibilities in a manner as you would expect to be treated. I contend that
you cannot be satisfied with your lack of action.
   As a citizen, I do not expect any of our Board Members to be treated in this
manner by any citizen addressing the Board. If it occurs, I expect the Mayor to
stop it and maintain order as explicitly explained in our state statutes, city
policies and Robert’s Rules of Order-Revised. You as our elected
representatives deserve to be treated with respect and consideration regardless
if we agree with your actions and decisions or not. You also owe each other
that same respect as our elected Board.
   I suggest that no Aldermen be assigned a major project such as our website
project in the future. If staff does not have the expertise to accomplish the
tasks, either seek volunteer support from our vast group of community
volunteers or hire a consultant.
Thank you for your attention and consideration.
Respectfully,
Woody Wilson
   Mr. Ed Boguskie, 502 W. Brown Street, read a statement into the record:
   Tonight I would like to address two (2) areas concerning the performance of
your duty as an alderman or mayor. The NC general assembly passed a law in 2009
requiring all NC cities, counties, local boards and etc. to adopt a resolution
or policy containing a code of ethics to guide their actions as a governing
board. This resolution had to be adopted by January 1, 2011.
   Southport did adopt a code of ethics per state statute. The guide
specifically pointed out five (5) areas that the code must address. The statute
left local boards a good deal of leeway in deciding on their code but made it
plain the five (5) areas had to be addressed. 1. The need to obey all
applicable laws regarding official actions taken as a board member. 2. The need
to uphold the integrity and independence of the board member’s office. 3. The
need to avoid impropriety in the exercise of the board member’s official
duties. 4. The need to faithfully perform the duties of the office. 5. The need
to conduct the affairs of the governing board in an open and public manner.
Under #1 If a board member is ever in doubt about what course of conduct is
legal in a particular situation the official should seek the advise of the
local government attorney. If the action is ethical seek the council of other
board members or a trusted advisor.
   The Southport Board of Aldermen also adopted the Suggested Rules of
Procedure for a City Council. These rules are based on Robert’s Rules of Order
Newly Revised. 1. The council must act as a body. 2. The council should proceed
in the most efficient manner possible. 3. The council must act by at least a
majority. 4. Every member must have an equal opportunity to participate in
decision making. 5. The council’s rules of procedure must be followed
consistently. 6. The council’s actions should be the result of a decision on
the merits and not a manipulation of the procedural rules.
   At the retreat on Saturday, February 25, 2012 do you feel the board followed
the Ethics Code or the Suggested Rules of Procedure? If you, as a board member,
do not have a copy of these two (2) publications ask Regina and she will
procure them for you. When you receive a copy of (A Model Code of Ethics for NC
Local Elected Officials) look under the acknowledgments, check the committee
members and you will see the name of Regina Alexander, city clerk, city of
Southport. This was not a paying job and it required many hours from start to
finish.
VI.   Committee Reports
   a)   Utility Committee
   Alderman Powell reported the Utility Committee met March 6. The committee
received information from the Planning Director, Amy Nelson, regarding the
$90,000 grant received from the North Carolina Department of Transportation
through the National Safe Routes to School Program for installation of new
sidewalks from W. St. George Street to W. 9th Street; sidewalks to be five (5)
feet wide with curb cuts for handicapped accessibility and improvements to bike
lanes on W. 9th Street will be made.
   Alderman Powell motioned, seconded by Alderman Poole to replace sidewalks
from W. St. George Street to W. 9th Street with the $90,000 grant funds. Motion
carried 6-0.
   b)   Transportation Committee
   Alderman Powell reported the Transportation Committee met February 17 and
discussed:
      ·    Request by the Trinity United Methodist Church for more handicapped
parking spaces and additional lighting at the corner of Atlantic Avenue and
Nash Street.
      ·    Request for installation of speed bumps on Yacht Basin Drive by Mrs.
Bridget Chirico, owner of Fishy Fishy Café.
   Committee recommendations:
   •   Addition of one (1) street light at the corner of Atlantic Avenue and
Nash Street.
   •   Church use portable handicapped parking signs during Sunday services.
   •   Do not install speed pumps on Yacht Basin Drive; install stop sign and
pedestrian crossing on W. Moore Street.
   Alderman Powell motioned, seconded by Alderman Poole to install a street
light at the corner of Atlantic Avenue and Nash Street at the request of the
Methodist Church and to trim the trees around the other light(s).
Motion carried 6-0.
   c)   Ft. Johnston Committee
   Alderman Karn reported the Fort Johnston Committee met March 7.
   The committee discussed:
   •   The plan to convert the tennis courts next to the Community Building
into a parking lot.
   •   Painting of the dark paneled room in the Garrison house to create a
better environment for the exhibits planned for that room.
   •   Non-profit groups selling their retail items at the Visitor’s Center
   •   Development of a system of administration whereby the needs of the Ft.
Johnston Visitor’s Center and Museum are met, the system and money disbursement
complies with all aspects of the contract with the National Parks Service Lands
to Parks Program, and non-profit agencies are treated fairly
   •   Possibility of getting a historical marker from the State of NC;
believed a regiment of black Union soldiers were housed at Ft. Johnston at the
end of the Civil War. Research continuing.
   Committee recommendations:
   •   Support of the plan to make the tennis courts a parking lot.
   •   Unanimously recommend: Painting of the dark paneled room in the Garrison
House a light color.
   Board consensus to table the recommendation for painting the dark paneled
room until the April regular meeting.
   d)   Beautification Committee
   Mr. Roy Pender, Chairman of the Beautification Committee reported the
committee met March 7 and he presented the following:
   After discussions with Heather Hemphill, Southport Parks and Recreation
Director, and the Forestry Committee, The Southport Beautification Committee is
presenting the following suggestions to the Board of Aldermen for their
consideration, for the improvement of Keziah Park, when funding is available.
   These possible improvements could include, but not be limited to:
   •   Historic Live Oak -
      - Remove existing small posts and ropes.
      - Perhaps replace with sturdier, more attractive wood posts or ‘pilings’,
which will allow some foot traffic.
      - Install historical plaque (perhaps by Southport Historical Society or
other organization). Possibly place the sign closer to a sidewalk.
      - Fertilize beneath the tree canopy.
      - Mulch inside ring of new posts.
   •   Place the park sign at the street intersection where it can be seen in
all directions. Better yet, possibly make a new smaller to fit into the
neighborhood.
   •   Rework the small corner brick planter, and install more appropriate
shrubs and/or picket fence, with the sign at the corner. If it is determined
that the bricks need removing, they should be returned to the Southport Garden
Club (originally from old Dosher Hospital).
   •   Layout and install a loose shell park walk connecting the two streets.
   •   Clean and then reposition benches and tables to take better advantage of
the site, the new walk and performance shell.
   •   Remove the blue chemical portable toilet.
   •   Repair the broken water fountain, or remove and cap.
   •   Fill depressions with soil, smooth and reseed or mulch as is
appropriate.
   •   Mulch around all existing trees, covering tree roots.
   •   Trim existing trees and shrubs.
   •   Clean and edge town sidewalks.
The cost of these improvements with volunteer help should be approximately
$3,000 to $4,000, not exceeding $5,000. If the cost is greater, than perhaps
the remainder of improvements could be funded the following year. Please
understand that these recommendations are suggestions only and the board’s
ideas and thoughts are welcomed. The final recommendations will be made with
Parks and Recreation Advisory Committee and the Forestry Committee.
Additionally the three committees could hold a joint meeting to invite the
public and seek their input.
We ask for your consideration on this request to show what can be done to
improve one of our most enjoyed parks with minimal funding, and with the town
and volunteers working together.
   Mr. Pender suggested the improvements to Keziah Park could be performed by
volunteers April 20 during a planned city wide clean up.
   Alderman Barnes, in his professional landscaper capacity, estimated the cost
of the improvements would be $3,000. He recommended hardwood walks in lieu of
shell walks. He offered his services to oversee the project at no charge to the
city.
   Alderman Barnes motioned, seconded by Alderman Karn to spend up to $3,000 to
accomplish as many improvements as possible per the suggestions made by the
Beautification Committee. Motion carried 6-0.
VII.   Departmental Reports (Included in agenda packet).
   Rescue Squad Chief, Neal Sage, reported that both ambulances were out of
service; the 2002 ambulance is at Jones Ford, Shallotte, with an engine block/
transmission gasket out, the 1990 ambulance fuel pump went out and was replaced
by the Public Services Department and then after a few runs the transmission
went out and the vehicle has been shipped to Wilmington. Chief Sage indicated
the County did not have an available ambulance but Leland loaned the rescue
squad an ambulance for as long as needed. No rescue calls will be missed.
    Alderman Powell motioned, seconded by Alderman Coring to authorize repairs
to the ambulances with the cost for said repairs to be reported back to the
Board at the April regular Board meeting. Motion carried 6-0.
VIII.   Public Hearing
   Aldermen Powell motioned, seconded by Aldermen Barnes to go into Public
Hearing. Motion carried 6-0.   
1)   Renovation to the Whittlers Bench and placement of a 20 ft. Cedar Tree
   Ms. Kendall Crews, 211 River Drive read a statement into the record:
   According to an interview several years ago with then Southport long time
resident Leilia Pigott, a cedar tree was planted in 1954 by the Southport
Garden Club within the perimeter of the Whittlers Bench. It was the replacement
for two Poplars that had been destroyed by Hurricane Hazel that same year. It
stood for over four decades serving as welcome shade for those wishing to sit a
spell. For almost 42 years it stood not as an obstruction to the view but as a
focal point to draw ones eyes to the artistic beauty of the magnificent Cape
Fear at its back. Then on July 12, 1996, the cedar tree like its predecessors
was ravaged by an act of God named Bertha. Many mourners gathered around its
remains after the storm grieving over the loss of a significant piece of
Southport’s history and character. Had the cedar tree gone unscathed by this
violent storm, it would in all likelihood still be standing. I can’t imagine if
that were the case that there would be a need for a public hearing tonight to
consider removing it because it blocks the view. Why such heartfelt passion
over a tree? Because to quote a comment on Facebook, “The tree is like New York
Times Square or the Statue of Liberty.” We are not New York but what an umbel
yet mighty symbol of Southport that little ole tree has been. Circling it has
been a rite of passage to many upon their return to Southport whether they were
gone for a day or many years. So important was that scruffy tree to the very
essence of Southport that pieces of it along with its story are displayed in
the Maritime Museum. An excerpt from the Sunday Star News July 14, 1996
edition, report on the damage from the storm reads, “In Southport residents and
visitors, some a bit teary-eyed, picked up pieces of the cedar tree at
Whittlers Bench to keep as souvenirs. Some posed for pictures in front of the
landmark tree split in two during the storm.”   I was one of those teary-eyed
people the story referred to. To this day a few splinters from that tree remain
one of my most treasured possessions.  Tonight I have shared a little piece of
it with each of you. A request has been made by a passionate group of
volunteers, many of whom grew up hanging out around that tree hearing stories
of old, stories of their ancestry. Their request is to replace the cedar tree
and fix the aging bench at no cost to the city. Finally, after almost 16
years, since its destruction, you are simply being asked to bestow your
blessings on the restoration of an iconic symbol that has defined decades of
Southport’s history.
   Mr. Bob Thorsen, Southport resident, read a letter from Mary Strickland:
   We went down the Howe Street hill to the waterfront to eat lunch today. We
do this often, a lovely hour in the middle of a long summer workday. At times a
Spring tonic, a Fall respite, or a Winter haven. But today something was
different. Suddenly the heat was stifling, the air humid and the waterfront
vista could not invite us to stay awhile. What was wrong? We wondered aloud and
suddenly knew. The cool, tranquil and protection of the beautiful Whittlers
Bench tree at the foot of Howe Street was missing. But we knew that. We knew
that when Hurricane Bertha torn it away and we grieved that same day with
others of our community loss. Today we must be caught in a warp of time. Time
to relive a moment, the unannounced eight year anniversary of that very sad
day. Today the Whittlers Bench is not inviting. It’s hot, sultry, no shade to
cool are native sons and guests, how can this be? What would have been so very
ugly and so very distasteful about that old familiar tree that would keep us
from rushing in to put up another in its place? And why didn’t we instantly act
to share with others the joy of what we once had. This town was built on the
dreams of people seeking spiritual peace, refreshment of body and soul. Our
memorial founder Joshua Potts once toasted, “May the tree of liberty take root
in the center of the earth and its branches spread from pole to pole.” The
living branches of our Whittlers Bench tree afforded protection for many
throughout the years. Joshua Potts would have been pleased. We could use
another tree of liberty right now to unify, to help heal. We could find a tree
that would be a symbol of our faiths and the strengths of this homeland. We
could plant a tree for all to see at the foot of a long gentle hill to the
river. Our founders would understand and we would once again be refreshed in
many ways.
   Thank you,
   Wayne and Mary Strickland
   Southport, North Carolina
   River Road     
   Mr. Thorsen shared his fond memories of time spent at the Whittlers Bench
and spoke of a renewed effort by the sons and daughters of the Cape Fear River
to not let the Whittlers Bench be neglected again.
   Mr. Tim Stiller, Boiling Spring Lakes resident, pointed out donations had
been and will be made to the City towards the Whittlers Bench. Manager
Alexander confirmed receipt of a donation towards the Whittlers Bench.
2)   Text Amendment, Unified Development Ordinance, Article 16: Off Street
Parking and Off-Street Loading Requirements, Section 16-3: Minimum Parking
Requirements
   The Planning Director, Mrs. Nelson, explained the proposed text amendment to
address unique parking situations for small commercial parcels in the business
district (BD). The amendment would allow the Planning Board to approve an
exception to the Unified Development Ordinance (UDO) parking requirements. The
amendment is recommended by the Planning Board and city staff.
   Mr. Fred Guerrina, 710 Dale Avenue, member of the Planning Board but
speaking as a private citizen, spoke in support of the proposed text amendment.
3)   Text Amendment, Unified Development Ordinance Article 2: Basic Definitions
and Interpretations, Section 202: Definitions of Basic Terms; Article 10: Table
of permitted uses; Article 12: Zoning & Conditional Use Permit approval,
Section 12-10: Supplemental Regulations
Mrs. Nelson explained the proposed text amendment to permit ice vending units
as an accessory/conditional use in the business and highway commercial zoning
districts. The amendment is recommended by the Planning Board and city staff.
   Alderman Poole motioned, seconded by Alderman Powell to close the Public
Hearing.  Motion carried 6-0.   
IX.   Old Business
1)   Consideration for approval of the Whittlers Bench renovation and planting
of a 20 ft. Cedar Tree.
   Manager Alexander reported she had received 14 e-mails and a Face Book
petition in favor of the proposal. She stated she had not received comments in
opposition to the proposal. Alderman Adams advocated for a lesser height cedar
tree.
   Alderman Karn motioned, seconded by Alderman Barnes to approve the
renovation of the Whittlers Bench and planting of a 12 - 15 ft. cedar tree.
Motion carried 6-0.
X.   New Business
1)   Consideration of Text Amendment, Unified Development Ordinance, Article
16: Off Street Parking and Off-Street Loading Requirements, Section 16-3:
Minimum Parking Requirements
   Responding to a question by Alderman Powell, Attorney Isenberg advised that
General Statutes allow the City to regulate on-site parking requirements only,
not State right of way parking. Alderman Karn suggested including North Howe
Street in the Parking Overlay District.
   Alderman Poole motioned, seconded by Alderman Barnes to adopt the text
amendment and resolution as presented. Motion carried 6-0.
Section 16-3: Minimum Parking Requirements
   Special situations wherein the property owner cannot comply with the above
requirements due to pre-existing, undersized lots in the Business District (BD)
shall be handled by the Planning Board. The Planning Board may alter the number
and location of parking spaces to be required, but shall in all cases give due
consideration to the needs therefor.
RESOLUTION APPROVING TEXT AMENDMENT TO UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
THAT WHEREAS, the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance and other
land use ordinances that control land development within both the City’s
incorporated areas and within its extraterritorial area; and
WHEREAS, in order to promote the public health, safety and general welfare and
to promote the best interest of the city and community, it is necessary for the
Southport Board of Aldermen from time to time to consider appropriate
revisions, modifications and additions to the City’s land use ordinances; and
WHEREAS, the Planning Board has considered this matter and has recommended that
this proposed amendment to Article 16 of the United Development Ordinance be
approved; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to NC General Statutes and city ordinances, a public hearing,
properly noticed, was held on March 8, 2012, before the Board of Aldermen
regarding this issue; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen hereby finds that this proposed amendment to the
Unified Development Ordinance is consistent with the Southport CAMA Land Use
Plan; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that this amendment is reasonable
and in the public interest in that (i) many older lots in the Business District
are not able to meet modern-day parking requirements, (ii) this amendment
promotes orderly growth and development in the City, and (iii) allowance of
parking flexibility promotes the public safety and general welfare of the
community.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that the
attached amendment and addition to the Southport Unified Development Ordinance
is hereby approved and adopted.
This 8th day of March, 2012            City of Southport
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard
                        Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
      Clerk
2)   Consideration of Text Amendment, Unified Development Ordinance Article 2:
Basic Definitions and Interpretations, Section 2-2: Definitions of Basic Terms;
Article 10: Table of Permitted uses; Article 12: Zoning & Conditional Use
Permit Approval, Section 12-19: Supplemental Regulations   
   Alderman Karn asked about the recommended size limitations of the ice
vending machines and the use as a supplement to another business. Mrs. Nelson
explained the machines are available in various sizes and the Planning Board
wanted to restrict the size and use in order to make less of an impact.
Alderman Adams discussed the advantage of having the machines during emergency
situations. Alderman Powell was opposed to the size restrictions. Alderman
Barnes pointed out that prior to the proposed amendment, there were no
guidelines in the Unified Development Ordinance to allow the use. Alderman
Poole stated a vendor for the machines presented information to the Planning
Board related to property aesthetics and enhancements.
   Alderman Barnes motioned, seconded by Alderman Poole to return the text
amendment to the Planning Board for further consideration. Motion carried 6-0.
 
3)   Consideration of Jonas Creek Subdivision Preliminary Plat, revised
   Mrs. Nelson explained the preliminary plat had previously been approved by
the Board but a revision had been made to an awkward intersection resulting in
a safer design of the street for emergency vehicles. The Planning Board and
city staff recommend approval of the revised preliminary plat. Alderman Powell
motioned, seconded by Alderman Barnes to approve the February 7, 2012 revised
Jonas Creek Subdivision Preliminary Plat. Motion carried 6-0.
4)   Update on CAMA CORE Land Use Plan
   Mrs. Nelson reported it is time to update the CAMA Core Land Use Plan. She
indicated there is no funding to hire a consultant and she will undertake the
update herself.
5)   Consideration of Amendment to Section 1-13.1 Dangerous Weapons
   Alderman Powell motioned, seconded by Alderman Barnes to adopt the Amendment
to Section 1-13.1 Dangerous Weapons of the Code of Ordinances. Motion carried
6-0.
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 11 OF THE CODE OF ORDINANCES TO PROHIBIT
DANGEROUS WEAPONS ON CITY PROPERTY
BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport that Chapter
11 of the Code of Ordinances is hereby amended by adding the following section:
Section 11-13.1 Dangerous Weapons
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry, possess or have within
his immediate access any dangerous weapon while in or upon city property.
   (b)   For purposes of this section, the following words have the meaning
indicated:
City property means any building, park, recreational facility, cemetery,
garage, parking lot or other public property owned by or controlled by the
City.
Dangerous weapon includes, but is not limited to, any firearm, rifle, pump gun,
air rifle, air pistol, bowie knife, dirk, dagger, slingshot, loaded cane,
metallic knuckles, razor, stun gun, switch blade knife, black jack, nightstick,
explosives or any other devise or object designed to or intended to be used to
inflict injury upon persons or property.
   (c)   This section shall not apply to:
      (i)   Sworn law enforcement officers
      (ii)   Members of the armed forces or national guard while on duty
      (iii)   Any person possessing a firearm in a cemetery for the purpose of
conducting a military funeral pursuant to a permit obtained from the city.
      (iv)   Any person possessing a firearm in a city park for ceremonial
purposes
         pursuant to a permit obtained from the city.
This the 8th day of March, 2012         The City of Southport
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard
                        Mayor
ATTEST: Regina W. Alexander, MMC
      Clerk
6)   Consideration of discussion and possible Board action on the
Beautification Committee recommendation to upgrade Franklin Square Park
   See Committee Reports; d) Beautification Committee
XI.   Other Business
   Mrs. Nelson announced a Great Places in North Carolina initiative sponsored
by the North Carolina Chapter of the American Planning Association; Great Main
Streets. She explained that a People’s Choice contest is being held and she
encouraged citizens to nominate Southport as a Great Main Street. She
distributed a handout of contest guidelines to audience members.
   Alderman Karn motioned, seconded by Alderman Coring to continue with a
Consent Agenda and include Committee Reports on the Consent Agenda if no Board
action is needed.
Motion carried 6-0.
   Police Chief Jerry Dove reported to the Board that insurance would be paying
$9,000 for a police cruiser totaled in a recent accident. He asked the Board to
accept the insurance money and authorize expenditure for a new replacement
vehicle, estimated cost $21,900.
   Alderman Poole motioned, seconded by Alderman Barnes to authorize purchase
and approve a budget amendment up to $13,500 for replacement of a vehicle for
the Police Department.  Motion carried 6-0.
XII.   City Manager Comments
   Manager Alexander had no comments
XIII.   Board Comments
   Board members had no comments
Closed Session - 7:40 p.m.
   Alderman Poole motioned, seconded by Alderman Powell to go into Closed
Session
   1.   Pursuant to G.S. 143-318.11(a)(5), to instruct the board’s staff or
negotiating agents concerning the position to be taken by or on behalf of the
board in negotiating the price and other material terms of a proposed agreement
for the acquisition of that certain real property known as tax parcel 237LH046
which is owned by Marchetti for the purpose of using said property for parking.
   2.   Pursuant to G.S. 143-318.11(a)(6), to discuss a personnel matter
involving the performance of a city employee.
   Motion carried 6-0.
Reconvene Regular Session - 8:42 p.m.
   Alderman Coring motioned, seconded by Alderman Poole to come out of Closed
Session. Motion carried 6-0.
   Mayor Howard stated the Board discussed Yacht Basin property acquisition
negotiations, expanding parking at the Community Building, minor amendments to
the Memorandum of Understanding Between City of Southport and Brunswick
Community College as provided by the city attorney and personnel issues. No
action was taken.   
   Alderman Barnes motioned, seconded by Alderman Adams to authorize the Mayor
to sign the Memorandum of Understanding Between City of Southport and Brunswick
Community College. Motion carried 6-0.
XIV:   Adjournment
Alderman Barnes motioned, seconded by Alderman Poole to adjourn the March
regular meeting at 8:46 p.m.
                     ______________________________
                        Mayor
_______________________________         
              Clerk   
APRIL 12, 2012
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN            REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
APRIL 12, 2012               6:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS(CITY HALL) SOUTHPORT, N. C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Todd Coring, Ken Karn, Mary Ellen Poole, Buddy Barnes,
         Nelson Adams, Jim Powell
STAFF PRESENT:   Pat Thomas, City Manager
         Regina W. Alexander, City Clerk
         Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
         Michele Windham, Deputy City Clerk
         Amy Nelson, Planning Director
         Jim Philyaw, Finance Director
         Jerry Dove, Chief of Police
         Bob Grant, Interim Public Services Director
I.   Call to Order - 6:00 p.m.
   Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
   Alderman Coring gave an update on seriously ill volunteer firefighter Tom
Florkiewicz and asked for prayers.
II.   Invocation
   Alderman Karn spoke a welcome and the invocation.
   ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Howard stated “if any member of the Board knows of
any conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with
respect to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
   Mayor Howard introduced and welcomed special guests Bass Hampton, Brook
Barnhill and Scott Lumpkin with Safe Haven Productions. Mr. Hampton, production
supervisor stated scouting of filming locations is underway in Southport for
the movie Safe Haven based on a Nicholas Sparks novel set in Southport. He
anticipated shooting would begin in May and continue for eight (8) weeks.
III.   Tentative Consent Agenda
   Alderman Powell motioned, seconded by Alderman Poole to approve the
Tentative Consent Agenda. Motion passed 6-0.
   1.   Minutes:   March 8, Regular Meeting
            March 8, Executive Session
            March 10, Board Retreat
            March 26, Special Meeting
   2.   Budget Amendments:
Budget Amendment #13
Fiscal Year 2011-2012
   BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, NC
assembled in regular session February 9, 2012, that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for:
   1.)   Transferring Funds within departmental line items to remove underbrush
and debris from ditch and ditch bank at Fodale, Cape Harbor, and Memory Lane
Streets. There will be no change in total fund budget with this amendment.  
STREET DEPARTMENT
                                                                   Budget
Budget As
                                                                Amendment    
Amended
                      Increase (Decrease)
Section # I
B. Appropriated Expenditures   
         Contractor/R.O.W Mowing      $935       $ 935
         Utilities-Street Lights         ($467)       $27,533
         Repair/Maintenance Equipment ($468)       $ 2032                  
ADOPTED this the 9th day of February, 2012
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
      Clerk
Budget Amendment #15
Fiscal Year 2011-2012
   BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, NC
assembled in regular session April 12, 2012, that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for:
1.) Transferring Funds within departmental line items to purchase equipment for
new fire truck. There will be no change in total funds budgeted with this
amendment.
               FIRE DEPARTMENT
                                                                   Budget
Budget As
                                                                Amendment    
Amended
                      Increase (Decrease)
Section # I
B. Appropriated Expenditures   
             Turnout Gear & SCBA (10-4340-2602)   ($17,000)    $ -0-
      Telephone (10-4340-3200)         ($11,125)    $ 13,87
      Capital Outlay-Vehicles (10-4340-5400) $28,125   
$513,327                  
ADOPTED this the 12th day of April, 2012
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
      Clerk
Budget Amendment #16
Fiscal Year 2011-2012
   BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, NC
assembled in regular session April 12, 2012, that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for:
1.) Transferring Funds within departmental line items to cover overspent line
items. There will be no change in total funds budgeted with this amendment.
RESCUE DEPARTMENT
                                                                   Budget
Budget As
                                                                Amendment    
Amended
                      Increase (Decrease)
Section # I
B. Appropriated Expenditures   
             Fees Paid to Volunteers (10-4370-1900)    $6,500    $84,500
      Medical Supplies (10-4370-2601)       $1,000    $ 9,000
      Uniform Supplies (10-4370-2602)    ($1,000)    $ 3,000
      Other Equipment (10-4370-2603)      ($2,500)    $ 5,207
      Travel & Training (10-4370-3100)      ($1,000)    $ 500
      Telephone (10-4370-3200)          $ 500    $ 1,000
      Utilities (10-4370-3300)         ( 3,500)    $ 6,500
ADOPTED this the 12th day of April, 2012
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
      Clerk    
Budget Amendment #17
Fiscal Year 2011-2012
   BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, NC
assembled in regular session April 12, 2012, that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for:
1.) Transferring Funds within departmental line items to cover cost of new
tires for activity bus. There will be no change in total funds budgeted with
this amendment.
PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT
               
                                                                   Budget
Budget As
                                                                Amendment    
Amended
                      Increase (Decrease)
Section # I
   B. Appropriated Expenditures
      Tire and Fuel (10-6120-2500)       $2,500   $ 9,000
      Capital Outlay-Other (10-6120-5500)   ($2,000)   $ 66,250
      Travel & Training (10-6120-3100)      ($ 500)   $ 1,500
                  ADOPTED this the 12th day of April, 2012
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
      Clerk
Budget Amendment #18
Fiscal Year 2011-2012
   BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, NC
assembled in regular session April 12, 2012, that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for:
   1.) Transferring Funds within departmental line items to cover overspent
Professional Fees and several other overspent accounts in Electric and Water/
Sewer Fund. There will be no change in total funds budgeted with this
amendment.
ELECTRIC AND WATER/SEWER FUND
                                                                      Budget
Budget As
                                                                                   
Amendment     Amended
                           Increase (Decrease)
Section # IV & V
   B. Appropriated Expenditures
      Professional Fees (30-7210-1800)          $ 10,000   $ 47,500
      Customer & Developer Underground (30-7210-5901) $(10,000)   $165,000
      Professional Fees (31-7130-1800)         $ 20,000   $ 79,700
      Capital Improvements (31-7130-5800)      $(10,000)   $ 64,600
      Capital Outlay/Equipment (31-7130-5000)      $(10,000)   $ 43,450
      Water Supplies/Wells (31-7130-2601)      $ 300   $ 300
      Sewer System R&M/Pump (31-7130-3505)      $ 100   $ 100
                  ADOPTED this the 12th day of April, 2012
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
      Clerk
Budget Amendment #19
Fiscal Year 2011-2012
   BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, NC
assembled in regular session April 12, 2012, that the following Budget
Amendment be adopted for:
   1.) Appropriating General Fund Balance for renovation of Fort Johnston and
relocation of Visitors Center. This has been approved by the Board of Aldermen.
TOURISM DEPARTMENT
                                                                   Budget
Budget As
                                                                Amendment    
Amended
                      Increase (Decrease)
Section # I
   A. Revenues Anticipated
      General Fund Appropriated Fund Balance    $ 48,200   $ 1,248,984
               (10-3991-0000)
   B. Appropriated Expenditures
      Capital Improvements (10-6170-5800)   $ 48,200   $ 48,200
               ADOPTED this the 12th day of April, 2012
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
      Clerk
   3.   Resolutions/Proclamations:   National Day of Prayer - May 3, 2012
                  Earth Day - April 22, 2012
                  Spring Clean Up - April 17-21, 2012
PROCLAMATION
NATIONAL DAY OF PRAYER
WHEREAS, civic prayers and national days of prayer have a long and venerable
history in our constitutional republic, dating back to the First Continental
Congress in 1775; and
WHEREAS, the Declaration of Independence, our first statement as Americans of
national purpose and identity, made “the Laws of Nature and Nature’s God” the
foundation of our United States of America and asserted that people have
inalienable rights that are God-given; and
WHEREAS, the Supreme Court has affirmed the right of state legislatures to open
their sessions with prayer and the Supreme Court and the U.S. Congress
themselves begin each day with prayer; and
WHEREAS, in 1988 legislation setting aside the first Thursday of May in each
year as a National Day of Prayer was passed unanimously by both Houses of
Congress and signed by President Ronald Reagan; and
WHEREAS, the National Day of Prayer is an opportunity for Americans of all
faiths to join in united prayer to acknowledge our dependence on God, to give
thanks for blessings received, to request healing for wounds endured, and to
ask God to guide our leaders and bring wholeness to the United States and her
citizens; and
WHEREAS, it is fitting and proper to give thanks to God by observing a day of
prayer in the City of Southport when all may acknowledge our blessings and
express gratitude for them, while recognizing the needs for strengthening
religious and moral values in our State and Nation; and
NOW, THEREFORE, I Robert D. Howard, Mayor of the City of Southport, and Board
of Aldermen do hereby proclaim May 3, 2012 as “A DAY OF PRAYER IN SOUTHPORT”
and urge all citizens of Southport to observe the day in ways appropriate to
its importance and significance.
This 12th day of April 2012.
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard
                        Mayor
Attest: /s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
      Clerk
City of Southport
2012 Earth Day Proclamation
   WHEREAS, the first Earth Day was celebrated on April 22, 1970, and was
founded by the late Senator Gaylord Nelson with the goal of inspiring
environmental awareness and encouraging the conservation, protection and
appreciation of our nation’s natural resources; and
   WHEREAS, it is the responsibility of each of us to safeguard the
environment, by recognizing that all human life depends upon the Earth and upon
one another for our mutual existence, well-being and development; and
   WHEREAS, the steps we can take to protect and preserve our natural
environment through education, partnerships and positive actions should be
encouraged; and
   WHEREAS, the citizens of Southport are committed not only to the protection
and preservation of our environment, but also to the restoration of ecosystems
and habitat; and
   WHEREAS, in furtherance of this objective the City of Southport supports
organizations that participate in Earth Day 2012; and
   WHEREAS, the City commends all who participates in Earth Day, for their
dedication in taking a proactive role in shaping the future of our environment
and in protecting the Earth’s precious natural resource;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that I, Robert D. Howard, Mayor of the City
of Southport, do hereby proclaim April 22, 2012, as
EARTH DAY
and urge all our citizens to be mindful of local, state and national laws which
protect our environment and to join in efforts to preserve the beauty and
wonder of the lands, skies and water of the Earth in all its diversity.
   This the 12th day of April 2012.
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
   Clerk
PROCLAMATION
SOUTHPORT SPRING CLEAN UP 2012
Whereas, the City of Southport annually organizes a spring clean up to insure
clean and beautiful streets in the City; and
Whereas, the Spring Cleanup will take place April 17-21, 2012, and encourage
local citizens, businesses, civic groups, churches, schools, families,
individuals and professional groups to participate in this effort by organizing
cleanups in their neighborhoods; and
Whereas, Southport Code Enforcement Department is collecting debris and refuse
at the intersection of 8th Street and Caswell Avenue; and
Whereas, the great natural beauty of Southport and a clean environment is a
source of pride for all citizens and attracting tourists; and
Whereas, the cleanup will increase awareness of the need for cleaner roadsides,
streets and neighborhoods, and emphasize the importance of not littering, and
encourage recycling of solid waste, and
Whereas, the 2012 spring cleanup is an annual event coordinated by the Code
Enforcement Officer, and is utilized by our residents and citizens as a service
to keep Southport clean and beautiful, and
Whereas, the “Southport Spring Cleanup” will be a part of bringing awareness to
the citizens of this Great City regarding the importance of a clean environment
to the quality of life in Southport, North Carolina.
NOW, THEREFORE, I ROBERT D. HOWARD, MAYOR OF THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT, NORTH
CAROLINA, do hereby proclaim April 17-21, 2012 as “SPRING CLEANUP” time
in Southport and encourage citizens to take an active role in making our city
cleaner.
This 12th day of April 2012      
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
      Clerk
IV.   Approval of Agenda
   Mayor Howard requested addition of:
   X.   New Business (5)  Consideration of staff recommended financial
arrangements for the purchase of a new ladder truck for the Fire Department
   X.   New Business (6) Consideration of Brunswick Community College (BCC)
Resolution
   VI.   Committee Reports (f) Update from the Planning Board Chairman on
proposed text amendment to permit ice-vending machines
   Alderman Powell requested deletion of item XI Other Business, 3 & 4.
Alderman Karn voiced opposition to removal of the items.
Alderman Powell motioned, seconded by Alderman Barnes to approve the agenda as
amended. Ayes:   Aldermen Powell, Poole, Barnes, Coring, Adams
Nay:   Alderman Karn
Motion carried 5-0.
V.   Public Comments
   Mr. Norman Holden, 212 Frink Drive, spoke in favor of keeping the tennis
courts and suggested realigning the courts to face East/West.
   Ms. Mary Tomlinson, 129 Yaupon Drive Extension, spoke in favor of keeping
the tennis courts.
   Mr. Rick Johnstone, 110 Willis Drive, spoke in favor of keeping the tennis
courts.
   Mr. Rhodes Messick, 6231 Cottage Creek Road, asked for an update on
improvements to the sewer system pointing out he had seen city crews running a
hose in the Cottage Creek pump station.
   Mr. Michael Rice, 2012 Bonner Bussells Drive, talked about the 2011
annexation process. He noted the annexation could become effective June 30,
2012 due to a March 27, 2012 court ruling. He pointed out the City would then
be obligated to provide services to the annexation areas. He encouraged the
Board to rescind the annexation.
   Mr. Fred Guerrina, 710 Dale Avenue, thanked Regina Alexander for serving as
Interim City Manager for the past 14 months.
   Deputy Clerk Windham read a statement into the record from Mr. Ed Boguskie,
502 W. Brown Street:
   “I have, for sometime, had reservations about the number of closed sessions
or executive sessions that the Southport Board of Aldermen have entered into.
Each of you are aware of the permitted purposes for a closed session and any
thing beyond these permitted purposes is not legal. I am having trouble with
closed sessions being added to the agenda at the board meeting with little or
no explanation as to why. At the March meeting Alderman Karn had to ask why the
closed session was being added. This is not acceptable. If there is a real
reason (falling under the 9 guidelines) a reason should be given and unless, of
a vital nature, should not be added at a board meeting.
   When you, the aldermen, feel a closed session is not valid or the
conversation during a closed session goes beyond what the session was called
for, you may leave the session and go back to your board seat at any time. This
will say a lot to those in the audience. Think this over, it is important or
the State would not have addressed it as it has done. North Carolina is very
strong on open meetings and the open meeting laws.”
   Alderman Coring reported he had received 69 comments in favor of keeping the
tennis courts.
VI.   Committee Reports
a)   Emergency Services Committee
   Alderman Poole stated the committee report:
   Members: Aldermen Coring and Poole, Chiefs Cumbee, Dove and Sage, and City
Manager
   1.   The Emergency Services Committee was appointed by Mayor Howard with the
purpose of making a recommendation to the Board of “What Official Position
Should the City take in regard to the Vote of the Citizens concerning Emergency
Services.”
   2.   The following is an interim report with the final report being provided
at the May meeting.
   3.   Considerations of the committee included the desires and wishes of the
citizens, costs involved and the citizen population of 2800 versus the services
population of 9,200. In consideration of the 2800 vs 9200, it is noted that
there was and is no effort to compare Fire to Rescue or vice versa, but only to
acknowledge this for financial and economic purposes.
   4.   For an interim report, the Committee recommends that
      a.   The primary focus should be ambulance services. The city requires a
new ambulance and a dependable back up. At this time it is estimated that the
cost would be approximately $200,000.00. It is noted that Chief Sage is very
proactive in reviewing available equipment with different options for
purchasing to get the best equipment for the least amount of money. It is noted
that in order to focus on the mission of this committee, the costs involved in
renovation to the building were not discussed. However, it is noted that once a
decision is made, the approximately $200,000 estimated cost for renovations
would need to be placed in the Rescue Squad Budget.
      b.   Departments Should Train Together: With continuing of Rescue
operations with Fire Department Back up.
      c.   Review Emergency Plans and update as necessary.
      d.   Update Master Plan
      e.   Complete Matrix covering responsibilities - Fire, Police, Rescue
   5.   For the May meeting, request that information be provided to the Board
by the City Manager and the Finance Officer concerning information on the
Rescue Squad to include but not limited to all revenues and expenditures.
   6.   We request that no discussion or decisions be made until the next
meeting when the Board has had appropriate time to review the interim report
and obtain all of the information available from Staff.
b)   Shop to the Beat
   Alderman Poole reported that Shop to the Beat has been renamed to “Southport
Beat” and would be held the third Friday of each month, 5:00 to 8:00 p.m.
beginning June 15.
c)   Website Committee
   Alderman Karn reported the committee met April 4 and changes were made to
the site based on recommendations made at that meeting. Alderman Karn presented
an overview of the City’s new website, pointing out a welcome message by the
Mayor, additions to the Southport photo gallery, Calendar of Events including
any events taking place in Southport, alphabetical business directory,
availability of Board of Aldermen documents, and an information only Facebook
page.
   Aldermen Coring and Barnes questioned the status of additional Southport
websites, i.e., Southport Community Center and Visit Historic Southport.
Alderman Coring emphasized that everything for Southport should be on one
website.
   Alderman Powell motioned, seconded by Alderman Barnes to appoint the City
Manager, or his designee, as the webmaster of the new City of Southport web
page. Motion carried 6-0.
   Alderman Karn motioned, seconded by Alderman Coring to authorize the Website
Committee and the City Manager to take the City’s web page live. Motion carried
6-0.
d)   Utility Committee
   Mr. Bob Grant, Interim Public Services Director, reported the Utility
Committee attended a presentation by Cecil Rhodes, former engineer of Progress
Energy, regarding solar power in homes. Mr. Grant stated the committee
recommends continues review of solar power.
   Mr. Grant, responding to a public comment by Mr. Messick, stated a dilution
program is being conducted at the Cottage Creek pump station to improve flow
and prevent sewage from turning septic.
e)   Traffic & Transportation Committee
   Alderman Powell reported the Committee discussed which projects and paving
of streets will be pursued using Powell Bill funding. A final recommendation
will be made to the Board at the next meeting.
f)   Planning
   Planning Board chairman Tish Hatem updated the Board on a proposed Unified
Development Ordinance (UDO) text amendment to allow ice-vending machines. She
stated a Planning Board subcommittee met March 28, and will be reporting to a
full Planning Board during the April 19 meeting with a recommendation:
   •      Remove restrictions to distance from residential zoning areas
   •      Remove size restrictions
   •      Add language for removal of machine within 30 days if main business
ceases to operate
   •      Retain as a conditional use in Business District (BD) and Highway
Commercial (HC) zoning districts
   •      Retain as an accessory use
   Ms. Hatem indicated the review committee felt permitting the units as a
stand alone business would not fit with the small shop theme of the city.
   Alderman Poole and Adams urged the Planning Board to reconsider permitting
the use as a stand alone business.
VII.   Departmental Reports (Included in agenda packet).
   Mayor Howard asked the City Manager to determine how many websites the City
has, pointing out a referral to a site other than cityofsouthport.com in the
Tourism and Economic Development report in the agenda packet.
   Alderman Coring expressed concerns to creation of a downtown promotional
team as outlined in the Tourism and Economic Development report. He pointed out
there are already several different committees focused on downtown, i.e.
Downtown Southport, Inc., Merchants Roundtable, volunteers and another group
would hinder those efforts.
VIII.   Public Hearing
   Aldermen Coring motioned, seconded by Aldermen Poole to go into Public
Hearing. Motion carried 6-0.
   1)   Text Amendment: Unified Development Ordinance, Article 10 Table of
Permitted Uses, Section 10-1, Note 4: Accessory Uses
   Mrs. Amy Nelson, Planning Director, explained the proposed text amendment,
Article 10, Section 10-1, Note 4: Accessory Uses, Swimming Pools is to re-word
confusing language to the required pool setback and to bring the fence height
for a swimming pool in line with the North Carolina Building Code.
   Mr. Billy Sherrod, 224 River Drive, talked about the NC Building Code
required pool safety features and the four (4) ft. fence height.
   2)   Text Amendment: Unified Development Ordinance, Article 16 Off Street
      Parking and Off Street Loading Requirements, Section 16-3 Minimum
      Parking Requirements, Storage, Self Service
Ms. Nelson explained the text amendment recommended by staff and the Planning
Board provides for self-storage parking requirements that are in keeping with
other communities in the area, are less restrictive than the current language,
and reduces impervious surface.
   Alderman Adams motioned, seconded by Alderman Barnes to close the Public
Hearing.  Motion carried 6-0.
IX.   Old Business
   1)   Consideration of Preliminary Plat, Highland Park Subdivision
   Mr. Bob Grant, Public Services Director, requested the Board defer
consideration of the Highland Park Subdivision due to a last minute request for
a change by the developer.  Alderman Powell, Utility Committee Chairman,
concurred. Mayor Howard removed the item from the agenda and directed staff and
the Utility Committee to present a recommendation at the next Board meeting.
   2)   Consideration of painting dark wood at Fort Johnston Garrison House a
light color
   Alderman Karn reported the request was withdrawn by the Tourism and Economic
   Development Director.
Recess - 7:41 p.m.
Reconvene - 7:47 p.m.
   3)   Consideration of Brunswick Community College Contract Agreement
   City Attorney Mike Isenberg presented the signed agreement with Brunswick
Community College (BCC) for a planned satellite campus on North Lord Street. He
pointed out the City will provide normal street lighting and the agreement
would be invalid if the college did not begin construction by May 31.
   Alderman Barnes motioned, seconded by Alderman Poole to approve the
Memorandum of Understanding Between City of Southport and Brunswick Community
College as presented by the City Attorney.  Motion carried 6-0.   (Copy of
agreement on file in the Clerk’s office)
   4)   Space Study Update
   Mayor Howard presented the conceptual drawings of the proposed renovations
to the Code Enforcement building, old fire department and rescue squad
headquarters. He explained the details of the cohesive facade design pointing
out the protruding and recessed brick, the various brick colors, and a proposed
recessed area for inclusion of artistic renderings of Historic Southport. He
noted that City staff had been involved in the floor plan and were satisfied
with the design.
   Alderman Barnes pointed out the addition of a public restroom at the rear of
the Code Enforcement Building and at the back door of the proposed Police
Station.
   Alderman Poole motioned, seconded by Alderman Powell to approve the
conceptual design and authorize staff to proceed with construction drawings.
Motion carried 6-0.  
   Mayor Howard reported the visitor center will be moving to the Fort Johnston
Garrison House during the month of May allowing for the code enforcement staff
to use the former visitor center during renovations to the Nash Street building
and for the Finance Department to use the space during a planned renovation to
City Hall.
   5)   Appropriation of funds to pay Connolly Tree Service for assessment of
Oak trees located behind the old Fire Department before work begins on the
renovation of city offices
   Alderman Poole motioned, seconded by Alderman Barnes to appropriate up to
$3,075 for pruning of trees located behind the Old Fire Department and
fertilization of one 46" diameter Live Oak located in front of Live Oak
Nutrition and directing staff to seek assistance from Brunswick County to
reduce the cost. Motion carried 6-0.     
X.   New Business
   1)   Consideration of Text Amendment: Unified Development Ordinance, Article
10 Table of Permitted Uses, Section 10-1, Note 4: Accessory Uses
   Alderman Poole motioned, seconded by Alderman Powell to adopt the text
amendment and resolution as recommended by the Planning Board and City staff.
Motion carried 6-0.
TEXT AMENDMENT # 12-0308-01
An Ordinance Amending the City of Southport Unified Development Ordinance, With
Respect to Off-Street Parking and Off-Street Loading Requirements
Statement of Present Regulation
ARTICLE 10.   Table of Permitted Uses (revised 12-13-07)
Section 10-1, Note 4: Accessory Uses
Swimming pools as an accessory use in R-10, R-20, MF, MH, O-I or PUD districts
shall be enclosed by protective fencing not less than five (5) feet in height
and should be setback five (5) feet from the existing property line.
Statement of Proposed Amendment:
Swimming pools as an accessory use in R-10, R-20, MF, MH, O-I or PUD districts
shall be setback five (5) feet from the existing property line and enclosed by
protective fencing meeting the requirements of the NC Residential Building
Code.
RESOLUTION APPROVING TEXT AMENDMENT TO UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
THAT WHEREAS, the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance and other
land use ordinances that control land development within both the City’s
incorporated areas and within its extraterritorial area; and
WHEREAS, in order to promote the public health, safety and general welfare and
to promote the best interest of the city and community, it is necessary for the
Southport Board of Aldermen from time to time to consider appropriate
revisions, modifications and additions to the City’s land use ordinances; and
WHEREAS, the Planning Board has considered this matter and has recommended that
this proposed amendment to Article 10 of the Unified Development Ordinance
(UDO) be approved; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to NC General Statutes and city ordinances, a public hearing,
properly noticed, was held on April 12, 2012, before the Board of Aldermen
regarding this issue; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen hereby finds that this proposed amendment to the
Unified Development Ordinance is consistent with the Southport CAMA Land Use
Plan; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that this amendment is reasonable
and in the public interest in that (i) in this instance Southport’s UDO should
be in alignment with the State of North Carolina Building Code, (ii) this
amendment promotes orderly growth and development in the City, and (iii)
allowance of a lower pool fence height does not hinder the public safety and
general welfare of the community.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that the
amendment and addition to the Southport Unified Development Ordinance is hereby
approved and adopted.
This 12th day of April, 2012            City of Southport
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard
                        Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
      Clerk
   2)   Consideration of Text Amendment: Unified Development Ordinance, Article
16 Off Street Parking and Off Street Loading Requirements, Section 16-3 Minimum
Parking Requirements, Storage, Self-Service
   Alderman Powell motioned, seconded by Alderman Barnes to adopt the text
amendment and resolution as recommended by the Planning Board and City staff.
Motion carried 6-0.  
TEXT AMENDMENT # 12-0229-01
An Ordinance Amending the City of Southport Unified Development Ordinance, With
Respect to Off-Street Parking and Off-Street Loading Requirements
ARTICLE 16.   OFF-STREET PARKING AND OFF-STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS (revised
12-13-07)
Statement of Present Regulation:
Section 16-3: Minimum Parking Requirements
The following off-street parking space shall be required and maintained:
 
Storage, Self-Service One (1) space for each 225 square feet of gross floor
                      area, plus one (1) space for each employee.
Statement of Amendment Proposed by Staff: 
Section 16-3: Minimum Parking Requirements
The following off-street parking space shall be required and maintained:
 
Storage,     Minimum five (5) spaces or one (1) space for each 100 storage
Self-Service units, whichever is greater, plus one (1) space for each employee
             and two (2) spaces for manager’s quarters, if present.
RESOLUTION APPROVING TEXT AMENDMENT TO UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
THAT WHEREAS, the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance and other
land use ordinances that control land development within both the City’s
incorporated areas and within its extraterritorial area; and
WHEREAS, in order to promote the public health, safety and general welfare and
to promote the best interest of the city and community, it is necessary for the
Southport Board of Aldermen from time to time to consider appropriate
revisions, modifications and additions to the City’s land use ordinances; and
WHEREAS, the Planning Board has considered this matter and has recommended that
this proposed amendment to Article 16 of the Unified Development Ordinance
(UDO) be approved; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to NC General Statutes and city ordinances, a public hearing,
properly noticed, was held on April 12, 2012, before the Board of Aldermen
regarding this issue; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen hereby finds that this proposed amendment to the
Unified Development Ordinance is consistent with the Southport CAMA Land Use
Plan; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that this amendment is reasonable
and in the public interest in that (i) some current parking requirements in the
UDO use an unnecessary amount of impervious surface, (ii) this amendment
promotes orderly growth and development in the City, and (iii) allowance of
parking flexibility in this instance promotes the public safety and general
welfare of the community through protection of natural resources.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that the
amendment and addition to the Southport Unified Development Ordinance is hereby
approved and adopted.
This 12th day of April, 2012            City of Southport
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard
                        Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
      Clerk
   3)   Consideration of Approval of National Pollution Discharge Elimination
System Pesticide Discharge Management Plan & Resolution   
   Alderman Barnes motioned, seconded by Alderman Poole to approve the staff
recommended Pesticide Discharge Management Plan and adopt Resolution
Designating Official to Sign Papers and to Otherwise Represent the Board in
Connections with Mosquito Control Activities National Pollution Discharge
Elimination System. Motion carried 6-0.
(Copy of Resolution on file in the Clerk’s office)
   4)   Consideration of Modification to City of Southport Sewer Transmission
Facilities Agreement
   Mr. Grant discussed the proposed modification to the City’s agreement with
Brunswick County that would require the County to guarantee the City of
Southport 330,000 gallons per day of sewer capacity in the Rivermist Pump
Station.
   Aldermen Powell motioned, seconded by Alderman Karn to modify the City of
Southport Sewer Transmission Facilities Agreement with Brunswick County per
staff recommendation. Motion carried 6-0.    (Copy of Agreement on file in the
Clerk’s office)
   5)   Consideration of staff recommended financial arrangements for the
purchase of a new ladder truck for the Fire Department.
   Mayor Howard reported that two bids had been received for financing of a new
ladder truck for the Fire Department. He noted that $400,000 was paid down on
the purchase. He recommended accepting the financing proposal from Branch
Banking & Trust (BB&T) for the purchase balance as a lease purchase with a term
of five (5) years at 1.77 percent interest. He pointed out that the $84,297.68
paid annually would be realized from fire fees collected from 9,200 citizens
served by the Fire Department. The truck is scheduled to be delivered April 17.
   Alderman Powell motioned, seconded by Alderman Poole to adopt the Resolution
Approving Financing Terms and authorize financing through Branch Banking &
Trust (BB&T) for purchase of a new ladder truck for the Fire Department.
  Motion carried 6-0.
RESOLUTION APPROVING FINANCING TERMS
   WHEREAS : The City of Southport, North Carolina (the “City”) has previously
determined to undertake a project for one Spartan Aerial Platform Fire Truck
(the “Project”), and the Finance Officer has now presented a proposal for the
financing of such Project.
   BE IT THEREFORE RESOLVED, as follows:
   1.   The City hereby determines to finance the Project through Branch
Banking and Trust Company (“BB&T”), in accordance with the proposal dated April
4, 2012. The amount financed shall not exceed $400,000.00, the annual interest
rate (in the absence of default or change in tax status) shall not exceed  1.77
%, and the financing term shall not exceed  five (5)  years from closing.
   2.   All financing contracts and all related documents for the closing of
the financing (the “Financing Documents”) shall be consistent with the
foregoing terms. All officers and employees of the City are hereby authorized
and directed to execute and deliver any Financing Documents, and to take all
such further action as they may consider necessary or desirable, to carry out
the financing of the Project as contemplated by the proposal and this
resolution. The Financing Documents shall include a Financing Agreement and
Deed of Trust and a Project Fund Agreement as BB&T may request.
   3.   The Finance Officer is hereby authorized and directed to hold executed
copies of the Financing Documents until the conditions for the delivery of the
Financing Documents have been completed to such officer’s satisfaction. The
Finance Officer is authorized to approve changes to any Financing Documents
previously signed by City officers or employees, provided that such changes
shall not substantially alter the intent of such documents or certificates from
the intent expressed in the forms executed by such officers. The Financing
Documents shall be in such final forms as the Finance Officer shall approve,
with the Finance Officer’s release of any Financing Document for delivery
constituting conclusive evidence of such officer’s final approve of the
Document’s final form.
   4.   The City shall not take or omit to take any action the taking or
omission of which shall cause its interest payments on this financing to be
includable in the gross income for federal income tax purposes of the
registered owners of the interest payment obligations. The City hereby
designates its obligations to make principal and interest payments under the
Financing Documents as “qualified tax-exempt obligations” for the purpose of
Internal Revenue Code Section 265(b)(3).
   5.   The City intends that the adoption of this resolution will be a
declaration of the City’s official intent to reimburse expenditures for the
project that is to be financed from the proceeds of the BB&T financing
described above. The City intends that funds that have been advanced, or that
may be advanced, from the City’s general fund, or any other City fund related
to the project, for project costs may be reimbursed from the financing
proceeds.
   6.   All prior actions of City officers in furtherance of the purposes of
this resolution are hereby ratified, approved and confirmed. All other
resolutions (or parts thereof) in conflict with this resolution are hereby
repealed, to the extent of the conflict. This resolution shall take effect
immediately.
   Approved this 12th day of April, 2012.      City of Southport
                        /s/ Robert D. Howard
                            Mayor                  
   By: Regina W. Alexander, MMC
       Clerk
   6)   Consideration of Brunswick Community College Resolution 
   Mayor Howard stated concerns had been raised by the many citizens that
utilize the Brunswick Community College Pottery Studio that the program will be
forgotten. He noted that in light of the fact the renovations to the Lord
Street campus are scheduled to proceed, he recommended the Board call on the
college to use a portion of the building to accommodate the pottery program.
   Alderman Barnes motioned, seconded by Alderman Poole to adopt the
resolution.
Motion carried 6-0.         
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the City of Southport has for many years supported Brunswick Community
College and its programs; and
WHEREAS, the City of Southport has allowed the use of city facilities for
various functions and activities, including the Senior Citizens’ Building
located at 209 N. Atlantic Avenue; and
WHEREAS, Brunswick Community College Pottery Studio was located in this City
facility as City records indicate from January 30, 1988 until August 6, 2009;
and
WHEREAS, Brunswick County relocated the Senior Citizens program and the City of
Southport Parks and Recreation offices were moved to this location; and
WHEREAS, since the Pottery Studio did not have a facility, the City allowed
Brunswick Community College to use the Old Fire Station from December 7, 2010
through June 7, 2011 pursuant to an agreement between the City and Brunswick
Community College; and
WHEREAS, Brunswick Community College campus was not completed and the City
extended the offer to the college to let them continue to use the old fire
station with the agreement that the City would provide a 30 day notice if the
building was needed; and
WHEREAS, the pottery class will be relocated to the Brunswick College Campus on
Lord Street upon completion of renovation; and
WHEREAS, the City of Southport is in the process of preparing for renovation of
City facilities and has need to relocate the Police Department in the old fire
station;
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Southport Board of Aldermen requests
Brunswick Community College to open a portion of the Lord Street Campus for use
by the Pottery Studio;    
This 12th day of April 2012            /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
      Clerk
XI.   Other Business
1)   Tennis Courts - Use and Maintenance of
   Alderman Poole stated she had received a myriad of telephone calls and e-
mails from citizens pleading to keep the tennis courts on Moore Street. She
pointed out the Board had heard public comments and Alderman Coring had also
received numerous comments.
   Alderman Poole motioned, seconded by Alderman Coring to abandon the parking
lot study, to continue using the tennis courts, allocate $35,000 - $40,000 for
resurfacing the tennis courts and directed staff to consider realignment of the
direction the courts face.
   Discussion
   Alderman Adams expressed support for resurfacing the tennis courts but
preferred having a specific cost report prior to approving the expenditure.
   Alderman Powell agreed with the motion but also the need for a professional
service to quote the cost of resurfacing and realignment.
   Alderman Barnes thanked the public for their input, expressed his support of
the motion and recommended adding two (2) parking spaces for use by the tennis
courts patrons.
   Alderman Karn noted a previous board had approved removal of the tennis
courts and installation of a parking lot. He pointed out a tennis court would
have a larger impervious surface than a parking lot. He stated he had received
many comments in support of keeping the tennis courts. He shared his opinion
the courts would be used and are an annuity for the City requiring periodical
resurfacing.
Roll Call Vote:   Alderman Adams:   Nay, “Not Without a Study”
            Alderman Barnes:   Yea
            Alderman Coring:   Yea
            Alderman Karn:   Yea
            Alderman Poole:   Yea
            Alderman Powell:   Yea   
2)   Consideration by the Board to hold a Public Hearing regarding tennis
courts
      Consideration not applicable; refer to Item 1).
3)   Discussion of rules and procedures for closed sessions and committee
reports with possible action to add items to current rules and procedures
      Item removed from the Agenda.
4)   Consideration of closed session to discuss possible property swap with
property at E. Moore and Ft. Johnston way and the riverf ront pocket park on
Bay and Atlantic Streets
      Item removed from the Agenda
XII.   City Manager Comments
   City Manager Thomas expressed his appreciation for the assistance he has
received from Ms. Alexander and City staff while settling into the office.
XIII.   Board Comments
   Alderman Barnes stated a reminder about the Spring Clean Up and the Dosher
Memorial Hospital Gala.
Mayor Howard announced a meet and greet would be held April 19, 5:00 - 7:00
p.m. at the Community Building to introduce the new City Manager to the public.
XIV.   Executive Session - 8:34
   Alderman Poole motioned, seconded by Alderman Adams to go into Executive
Session pursuant to G.S. 143-318.11 (6).   Motion carried 6-0.
Regular Session Reconvened - 8:49 p.m.
   Alderman Coring motioned, seconded by Alderman Poole to come out of
Executive Session. Motion carried 6-0.
   Mayor Howard stated the purpose of the Closed Session was to discuss staff
transition. He expressed appreciation on behalf of the entire Board to Regina
Alexander for serving as Interim City Manager for the past 14 months and
Michele Windham for assisting as City Clerk.
   Alderman Barnes motioned, seconded by Alderman Poole to award Regina
Alexander a $4,000 bonus. Motion carried 6-0.
   Alderman Karn motioned, seconded by Alderman Adams to award Michele Windham
a $2,000 bonus. Motion carried 6-0.   
XIV:   Adjournment
Alderman Barnes motioned, seconded by Alderman Adams to adjourn the April
regular meeting at 8:57 p.m.
                     ______________________________
                           Mayor
_______________________________
              Clerk
APRIL 30, 2012
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
APRIL 30, 2012    2:00 P.M.
CITY HALL         SOUTHPORT, N. C.
 
PRESENT:   Robert D. Howard, Mayor
      Aldermen Todd Coring, Nelson Adams, Jim Powell, Buddy Barnes and Ken Karn
ABSENT:   Alderman Mary Ellen Poole
STAFF
PRESENT:     Pat Thomas, City Manager
    Regina W. Alexander, City Clerk
      Amy Nelson, City Planner
OTHERS:   Senator Bill Rabon
      Representative Frank Iler
      John Elliott, Representing Progress Energy
      Don Eggert, AICP, Cape Fear Rural Planning Organization
      Karen Fussell, NCDOT Division 3 Engineer
      Jackson Provost, NCDOT Division 3 Construction Engineer
      Gary Lovering, NCDOT Roadway Project Engineer – Eastern Region
      Kevin Moore, NCDOT Roadway Project Design Engineer – Eastern Region
      Jay McInnis, NCDOT – PDEA Project Planning Group Supervisor
      Kim Gillespie, NCDOT – PDEA Project Planning Engineer
   The meeting was called to order at 2:10 p.m. by Mayor Howard. He introduced
Karen Fussell, North Carolina Department of Transportation Division 3 Engineer
and she introduced other staff members. Other attendees were acknowledged by
Mayor Howard.
   The invocation was delivered by Alderman Karn.
   Mayor Howard stated the purpose of the meeting is to open a dialogue with
DOT representatives, Senator Rabon and Representative Iler for consideration in
developing an alternate access road in and around Southport. Mayor Howard
stated the seriousness of the gridlock became evident during DOT highway
construction in March which caused major traffic delays and congestion, which
could have ultimately resulted in an emergency. He explained that a second
access road is critical to Southport and its citizens which could also serve as
an evacuation route while relieving truck traffic off of Jabbertown Road. The
proposed road would connect Leonard Street to Rob Gandy Boulevard over to
Highway 87 & 133, while diverting truck traffic off of Jabbertown Road.
   He explained that City representatives talked with Howard Lee and Cameron
Smith, both property owners near the proposed route. Mr. Lee is willing to sell
property for a right of way at fair market value, while Mr. Smith will grant a
60 ft easement. The City is prepared to assist the State to make this happen.
   Senator Bill Rabon stated that another road is needed but questioned the 60
ft easement. He suggested extending the road to East Moore to get traffic over
to Dosher Cutoff which is designated as an evacuation route. He explained that
the State would need to know costs and future plans. He stated that it would be
prudent to request DOT to perform a feasibility study. He asked about wetlands
in the proposed area as did Representative Iler while expressing environmental
concerns and the impact of the proposed road. Alderman Powell noted that the
area in question is dry land and does not cross wetlands.
    Ms. Fussell also referenced environmental concerns and suggested a
feasibility study be performed. She explained that projects are determined by a
cost ratio analysis and this project may need to be considered for the
Transportation Improvement Plan program (TIP).
   Mr. Don Eggert, of the Cape Fear Rural Planning Organization (COG) told the
Board that a letter was written in October 2005 to former Mayor Norman Holden
in support of an Eastside Connector Road and they supported the City’s request
for DOT to perform a feasibility study on the need for a new connector road,
but he was not aware of the results.
   Mayor Howard reiterated the City’s position, while asking for assurance that
DOT, Senator Rabon and Representative Iler understand the City’s position and
will commit to assisting in the development of this road, realizing that the
City will continue to pursue this project. Senator Rabon mentioned that the
State will be pursuing public-private partnerships for future projects.
   Ms. Fussell suggested the Board adopt a resolution asking DOT for a
Feasibility Study which will begin the initial process to look at preliminary
costs.
   City Manager Thomas stated that he would work with the State and DOT on this
project. Mayor Howard noted that the Resolution would be submitted after the
May 10 meeting.
   Mr. George McCracken of 556 Jabbertown Road asked if the speed limit could
be reduced on Jabbertown Road due to the high volume of traffic i.e. speeding
trucks. Ms. Fussell stated that this was an enforcement issue and speed limits
are established according to percentiles. Alderman Adams voiced concerns about
truck traffic speeding, pot holes in the road and shoulders broken due to the
high volume of traffic and suggested DOT look at this situation.
   Chief Dove stated that this area was not in the corporate city limits and
could not be enforced by the Police Department.
   Ms. Carolyn Hankins, property owner on Jabbertown stated due to the weight
of the trucks and high volume of traffic, it is her belief that homes have been
damaged.
    Ms. Fussell suggested a resolution be submitted to DOT requesting a speed
limit reduction. Mayor Howard noted that this area is not in the City limits
and reiterated that the residents are neighbors and need help.
   Mr. Patrick Connaughton asked about the palm trees in the triangle at the
intersection of Highway 87 and 211 and suggested removal or the trees be
trimmed back for more visibility.
   No further comment, the meeting was adjourned upon motion of Alderman Adams,
seconded by Alderman Barnes. Vote unanimous.
                  ____________________________________
                  Mayor
_______________________________
Clerk
MAY 10, 2012
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN             REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
MAY 10, 2012                  6:00P.M.
CITY HALL (ALDERMEN CHAMBERS) SOUTHPORT, N. C.
 
PRESENT:    Mayor Robert D. Howard
Aldermen Todd Coring, Ken Karn, Mary Ellen Poole, Buddy Barnes, Nelson Adams,
Jim Powell
STAFF PRESENT: Pat Thomas, City Manager
Regina W. Alexander, MMC-City Clerk
Mike Isenberg, City Attorney Amy Nelson, Planning Director Jim Philyaw, Finance
Director Jerry Dove, Chief of Police
Bob Grant, Interim Public Services Director
Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
Cindy Brochure, Tourism & Economic Development Director
I.    Call to Order - 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:00p.m.
II.    Invocation
Alderman Coring welcomed all and gave the invocation.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Howard stated " ifany member ofthe Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time. "
III.    Presentation- Great Places People's Choice Runner-up Award
Ms. Emily Beddingfield, Sr. Planner with the City of Wilson, N.C. and
representing the North Carolina Chapter of the American Planners Association
presented the City with a runner's up award recognizing the City for its
initiative in the Great Places Challenge. Mayor Howard accepted the award on
behalf of the City and recognized Amy Nelson, Director of Planning for
submitting the application.
42"d Annual Municipal Clerks Week: The Board recognized the City and Deputy
Clerks in honor of Municipal Clerks Week with red roses and proclaimed May 7-
11, 2012 as Municipal Clerks Week in Southport.
IV.    Consent Agenda
Alderman Kam moved that Item 3. Capital Project Ordinance in the amount of
$50,000 for the riverfront planning and design be placed on the regular agenda
under old business for discussion.
Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Barnes to approve items one and two
on the consent agenda. The vote of approval was unanimous.
   1.   Approval of Minutes:
   February 25, 2012 Retreat Minutes
   Apri112, 2012 Regular Meeting Minutes
   April 30, 2012 Special Meeting Minutes
   2. Budget Amendments Nos.
      21 Police Department
      22 Parks & Recreation
      23 Parks & Recreation
      24 Police Department
      25 Electric Department
      26 Fire Department
      27 Fire Department
      28 Parks & Recreation Department
      29 Tourism Department (Equipment)
(Budget Amendments Incorporated as Attachment #1)
V. Approval of Agenda
Alderman Poole asked that the Brunswick Community College Lease Agreement be
added under "Other Business". Alderman Coring moved to approve the agenda as
amended, seconded by Alderman Poole. Vote unanimous.
VI. Public Comments
Mr. Rhodes Messick of Cottage Creek Road encouraged the Rescue Squad to keep
ambulances in town due to traffic congestion and not carry out an ambulance
arrangement with Brunswick County to service other areas because of the roads
and traffic congestion.
    Mayor Howard publicly apologized to Mr. Marchetti due to e-mails and
negative press concerning property that he owns at the foot of Bay and Atlantic
that the Board previously discussed in closed session. Mayor Howard stated that
he had asked the Board if there was any interest in approaching Mr. Marchetti
about the possibility of property exchange to retain the tennis courts and have
parking availability. The Board did not express an interest in this and the
issue was dropped. Mayor Howard emphasized that there was no impropriety and
the Board did not have a secret meeting. Mr. Marchetti stated publicly that no
Board member approached him from the Board or staff about property exchange and
he read about this in the newspaper.
John N. Smith Cemetery Restoration Committee: Mayor Howard read a letter from
the John N. Smith Restoration and Preservation Committee thanking the City for
assistance in cutting the grass at the cemetery and extended an invite to the
Board and staff to the Memorial Day Celebration May 28, 11:00 a.m. Speaker for
the occasion is the Honorable Senator Rabon.
VII.   Committee Reports
Mayor Howard thanked the Beautification Committee, volunteers and City staff
for pruticipating in Clean Up Day.
Mr. Roy Pender, Chairman of the Beautification Committee also thanked the Board
for its financial support in allocating $3,000 for the cleanup and stated
improvements at Keziah Park would not have been realized without the funds. He
stated that there is discussion about establishing a "Friends of the Parks."
Caviness Park has been suggested as the next project. Mr. Pender stated Friends
of the Parks will seek guidance from Parks & Recreation before begi1ming any
work. In conclusion, special thanks were given to Wildwood Landscaping and its
staff for the diligent work and their volunteer efforts.
Southport Beat- Alderman Poole stated this is the revised Shop to the Beat.
They will begin June 15 from 5- 8:00 p.m. with general entertainment and
programs at Franklin Square Park and children entertainment will be held in
Keziah Park.
VIII.   Departmental Reports
Reports included in the agenda packet.
Mayor Howard informed the Board that the Code Enforcement Officer issued a
dangerous dog citation. The City's Animal Control Ordinance provides for an
appeal process under Section 3-9 and the owner has requested such an appeal.
Mayor Howard appointed Aldermen Coring, Chairman of the Appeals Committee,
Aldennen Barnes and Powell as members.
IX.    New Business
1. Capital Project Ordinance
Mayor Howard stated the City has discussed with the Corp of Engineers the
City's eroding shoreline from Kingsley Park to the Old Yacht Basin. To conduct
a restoration and waterfront study, funds were appropriated at the Board's
Retreat on February 25, 2012 up to $50,000 in matching funds to also include
the 1st Bank property at the Old Yacht Basin.
   The money was approved by the Board but not formally appropriated.
Alderman Kam stated the City has appropriated funds for other projects not
budgeted and believes the City can perform a lot of the preliminary work on its
own i.e. conducting a public hearing to receive public input on the waterfront,
get estimates for engineering studies, i.e. waterfront erosion prevention, seek
conservation easements from property owners between Bay Street and the
waterfront, and get better cost estimates for the types of projects the City
would need to appropriate money for. He also referenced the landscape plan that
Parks & Recreation developed stating a planning process has not been identified
for the waterfront. He stated his hesitancy in committing $50,000 to a process
where there is a lot more the city can do before expenditure of these monies.
He suggested reducing the amount of funding and delay authorization of
expenditure. Mayor Howard stated that this is a matching fund grant and the
Board is only voting to move the appropriate funds in a capital fund and no
expenditures has been authorized.
Alderman Adams questioned whether a previous study had been performed on the
waterfront and believes other avenues should be sought before encumbering
$50,000. Aldemmn Powell noted that Alderman Adams was not present when the vote
was taken to appropriate these funds which passed 5-0.
Alderman Barnes stated he realize the study may be completed for less but the
project should not be delayed. Alderman Poole stated she was involved initially
to try and acquire the property on the waterfront. Unless there is a plan, the
waterfront improvements will not be realized. Alderman Coring agreed that it is
important to focus on improving the waterfront but not invest money without a
plan.
Alderman Poole moved to approve the Capital Project Ordinance, seconded by
Alderman Barnes. The vote: 5 ayes, Aldermen Poole, Powell, Barnes, Coring and
Adams. (Aldennan Adams requested the record show that he voted yes because the
motion stated up to $50,000) 1 no vote, Alderman Kam. Motion passed 5-1.
City of Southport
CAPITAL PROJECT ORDINANCE
Fiscal Year 2011-2012
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport,North
Carolina, assembled in regular session May 10, 2012, that, pursuant to Section
13.2 of Chapter 159 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, the following
Capital Project Ordinance is hereby adopted:
Section I. The project authorized is the implementation of the River Front Plan
to be financed by funds transferred from the General Fund Appropriated Fund
Balance.
Section 2. The officers of the City of Southport are hereby directed to proceed
with the Capital Project within the terms of the budget contain herein.
Section 3. The following amounts are appropriated for the project:
Planning and Design    $50,000
Section 4. The following revenues are anticipated to be available to complete
this project: Proceeds from General Fund Appropriated Fund Balance   $50,000
Section 5. The Finance Officer is hereby directed to maintain within the
Capital Project Fund sufficient specific detailed accounting records.
Section 6. The Finance Officer is directed to report,on a quarterly basis, on
the financial status of each project elements in Section 3.
Section 7. The Budget Officer is directed to include a detailed analysis of
past and future costs and revenues on this Capital Project in every budget
submission made to the Board of Aldermen.
Section 8. Copies of this Capital Project Ordinance shall be furnished to the
Clerk to the Board of Aldermen, and to the Budget Officer and the Finance
Officer for direction in carrying out this project
Adopted this 10th day of May, 2012
/s Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:
s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk to the Board of Aldermen
2. Preliminary Subdivision Plat- Highland Park Phase I
Bob Grant, Interim Public Services Director presented the Highland Park
Subdivision Plat for approval. The plat was presented in March but sent to the
Utility Committee and staff to review storm water issues. The engineer for the
development submitted specifications that were reviewed and approved by the
City's consulting engineers, Norris and Tunstall and found to comply with the
City of Southport's UDO requirements and staff recommendation for approval.
Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to approve the preliminary
plat for Highland Park, Phase I. Vote unanimous.
X.    New Business
1. Resolution - Additional Road Access
City Manager Thomas referenced the resolution adopted March 27 asking the North
Carolina Department of Transportation to work with the City in developing an
additional road which would provide an alternate route for emergencies and
evacuations while diverting truck traffic off of Jabbertown Road (S.R. 1526).
At the special meeting on April 30 with Senator Rabon, Representative Iler and
DOT officials, the Board was encouraged to adopt a resolution requesting
feasibility and engineering studies from the NCDOT. A resolution has been
prepared for Board consideration.
Alderman Barnes moved to adopt the resolution requesting an additional access
road into the City, seconded by Alderman Karn. The vote of approval was
unanimous.
City of Southport
A RESOLUTION REQUESTING NCDOT STUDY OF AN ADDITIONAL ACCESS ROAD INTO THE CITY
OF SOUTHPORT
WHEREAS Department of Transportation construction work at the intersection of
NC 211 and NC 87 during the week of March 19-23, 2012, caused major traffic
delays and congestion and brought to the City's attention in a very forceful
manner the potential public safety hazards that could arise from obstruction of
the sole route of access in and out of Southport; and
WHEREAS obstruction ofthe single highway in and out of Southport (NC 211)
prevents emergency vehicles from providing essential life-saving and property
protection functions in a timely manner, causes major traffic delays and
congestion, and creates serious hardships on citizens and businesses in the
community; and
WHEREAS the Jabbertown Road community adjacent to Southport, an area zoned and
developed for residential use, is also experiencing serious safety concerns
related to high levels of truck traffic (up to 250 tractor trailers daily)
traveling to and from industrial locations; and
WHEREAS these significant threats to public safety can be alleviated by the
development of an alternative access route that bypasses the NC 211/NC 87
intersection;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport, North Carolina:
1. The City respectfully requests that the North Carolina Department of
Transportation undertake a feasibility study, as well as engineering studies,
to determine an appropriate means of constructing an alternative route of
access into Southport that would (a) bypass the NC 211/87 intersection and (b)
provide an alternate route for industrial h·uck traffic that is currently
utilizing SR 1526 (Jabbertown Road);
2. The City requests that the feasibility study and related engineering work be
conducted in an expeditious manner and that the study include careful
consideration of a potential roadway corridor for which the City has received
tentative right-of-way commitments;
3. The City requests that, in the future, any Depmtment of Transportation
construction work along the city's sole route of highway access (a) be preceded
by adequate advance notification to the City and to affected area public safety
agencies, (b) be conducted primarily at night to avoid peak traffic hours, and
(c) be conducted in off-season periods to avoid conflicts with high traffic
levels during the tourist season.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that this resolution shall be provided in an expeditious
manner to Senator Bill Rabon, to Representative Frank Iler, to the Department
of Transportation board member for NCDOT Division 3, and to the Division
Engineer for NCDOT Division 3.
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen on May 10, 2012.
/s Robert D. Howard
Robeti D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:
/s Regina Alexander, City Clerk
2. Lighting Adjacent to Dosher Memorial Hospital
City Manager Thomas told the Board that the City was approached by
representatives from Dosher Hospital regarding the four decorative post lights
on Howe Street adjacent to Dosher Hospital. According to research, the lantern
lights were installed by the hospital and electrical power provided by the
City. The overhead power was cut during renovation of the hospital and the line
removed. The hospital has since installed a new yard light over a decorative
light to provide security to a parking and dock area at the southwest comer of
Howe. He presented a sketch showing location of other lights but stated there
is no street light at the intersection of Fodale Avenue and Howe Street. The
hospital requested the City consider re­establishing the agreement under which
the hospital provided the light fixtures and the City supplied the power. The
hospital will pay the cost of installing new underground wiring and lighting
fixtures, if the City supply the power and Brunswick Electric Membership
Corporation estimated the monthly power cost at $3.00 monthly to operate two
lights. Three options were presented for Board consideration:
Options
   o   Advise the hospital that the City has no need for additional lighting in
the area of concern and that any new lighting must be requested by and paid for
by the hospital as yard lights (at a cost of approximately $15 per month each)
   o   Agree to resume the previous arrangement in which the hospital paid for
the installation and the City paid for the power, but place only two taller
decorative fixtures, one in the location of the two closely spaced fixtures and
one near the entrance walkway.
   o   Agree to resume and continue the previous arrangement, installing only
two replacement fixtures, and also place a street light at the intersection of
Howe Street and Fodale Avenue.
Discussion:
Alderman Powell suggested a street light be installed at Howe and Fodale,
possibly located on the same pole when the state installs the traffic signal.
City Manager Thomas stated the design is unknown as to the type of traffic
signal that will be installed, but could be a possibility.
Aldennan Adams stated citizens pay for their own security lights and the same
policy should apply to the hospital.
Alderman Barnes noted that the location is a City sidewalk and complaints have
been registered about the darkness and possible danger. He stated $3 a month is
not unrealistic to pay for the safety of citizens on a public sidewalk.
Alderman Adams moved to adopt Option 1 and to advise the hospital the City does
not have need for additional lighting and any new lighting must be requested
and paid for by the hospital as yard lights at a cost of approximately $15 per
month. Motion seconded by Alderman Karn. Discussion: Alderman Coring asked what
precipitated this discussion and noted the lights between Moore and the
waterfront do not work i.e. the bench area at Waterfront Park is dark. Mr.
Thomas explained that the Hospital Facilities Manager approached the City and
reported of a recent accident. No further discussion, the votes were 5 ayes,
Adams, Kam, Coring, Poole and Powell. 1 no, Alderman Barnes. Motion passed 5-1.
3. Emergency Medical Services Committee Recommendation
Alderman Poole presented the following recommendations from the Emergency
Medical Services Committee comprised of Aldermen Coring, City Manager Thomas,
Chiefs Sage, Dove, Cumbee and Alderman Poole as Chairperson. Alderman Poole
moved that the following recommendation be approved, seconded by Alderman
Coring. The vote of approval was unanimous.
1.   Primary Ambulance Replacement. Appropriate sufficient funds in the FY 13-
14
City budget to replace the old ambulance unit with a new unit, financed over a
five year period so that the squad can continue to meet the significant needs
for emergency medical responses in the Southport area. (Specification, bidding,
and delivery of a unit, which would take place in FY 12-13, will probably take
six to 9 months, and the first payment would likely not be due until 12 months
thereafter.)
2.    Cardiac Monitor. (a) Appropriate funds in the FY 12-13 budget to provide
funding for replacing one cardiac monitor. (b) Also pursue a North Carolina
Department of Insurance OFM grant and/or other grants to help provide funding
in lieu of the city funds.
3.    Other Equipment Replacement. (a) As soon as the first cardiac monitor is
replaced, begin annually placing moneys in a capital reserve fund to help fund
replacement of the second monitor, the second ambulance, and the QRV unit. (b)
Encourage the rescue squad auxiliary to contribute funds derived from the
squad's annual fundraising efforts for the same purpose. (c) Continue to apply
for AFG funding to potentially help with vehicle replacement.
4. Extrication Equipment. Create a small task group - composed of rescue and
fire department members selected by the two chiefs - to explore the feasibility
of transferring the extrication equipment to the fire department at some point
in the foreseeable future. The feasibility study should include required
training for utilization of the equipment, available means of transport,
potential compensation of the rescue squad, and the potential impact on
eligibility for rescue-related grants
5.   Sale of Equipment. Ask the Rescue Squad to explore sale of the 1991
International rescue truck-preferably to another Brunswick County emergency
services unit- in order to raise funds to help with the replacement of the
second ambulance (for which re-chassis should be considered) and the Quick
Response Unit.
6.    Referendum. Rescind the resolution requesting that a tax levy referendum
be conducted in August.
7.    Business Plan. Encourage the squad to continue preparing- and updating
annually its business plan, which has helped identify ways and means or
providing service and has helped improve the squad's degree of self-support.
8.    Grants. Encourage the squad to continue its efforts to pursue appropriate
grant opportunities to help fund essential equipment needs.
9.    Recognition. Identify an appropriate and public means of recognizing the
squad 's members and leadership for the significant progress that the volunteer
squad has made in rebuilding and sustaining an emergency medical service that
responds in a rapid and reliable manner to community needs.
Alderman Powell motioned to rescind the resolution requesting that a tax levy
referendum be conducted in August, seconded by Alderman Kam. Vote unanimous.
A RESOLUTION RESCINDING THE CALL FOR A REFERENDUM FOR A PROPERTY TAX LEVY TO
SUPPORT THE SOUTHPORT RESCUE SQUAD
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen previously adopted a resolution calling for a
referendum on the question of authorizing the City to levy a property tax that
would raise up to $124,000 per year to help provide ambulance services, rescue
sq uads and other emergency medical services; and
WHEREAS, the Emergency Services Committee has developed and presented a report
and plan to help continue, in a reasonable and affordable manner, intermediate-
level emergency medical services to the Southport Community, which approach has
been approved by the Board of Aldermen
BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport:
I. That the resolution adopted on February 9, 2012 calling for a referendum on
the question "Shall the City of Southport be authorized to levy annually a
property tax rate not in excess of that which will produce $124,000 for the
purpose of providing ambulance services, rescue sq uads and other emergency
medical services?" is hereby rescinded.
2. That the Brunswick County Board of Elections be advised to set aside the
previous request to conduct such a referendum in August 2012.
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen on May 10, 2012.
s/ Robert D. Howard, mayor
Attest:
s/ Regina W. Alexander, City Clerk
4. Future Street Resurfacing Priorities
Bob Grant, Interim Public Services Director and Alderman Powell, Chairman of
the Traffic and Transportation Committee presented a list of paving priorities
for Board consideration and prioritization.
   o   N. Atlantic- from E. Leonard toW. West (could possibly merit continuing
to E. Nash/E. Moore) Off season preferable (November thru March) due to high
traffic volumes
   o   S. Howe- from Moore to Bay-Off season preferable (November thru March)
due to high traffic volumes
   o   Fodale- Mitchell to Long Leaf
   o   E. Nash- N. Howe toN. Atlantic
   o   N. Lord- W. Nash toW. Brown
   o   Kingsley- S. Rhett to E. Moore
   o   Long Leaf- Fodale to Herring
It was Board consensus that ptioritization be made at staff's discretion. Mr.
Grant said Powell Bill funds will be used for the paving projects. Alderman
Barnes moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to approve the list of paving
priorities presented. The vote was unanimous.
XI.   Other Business
1)    Brunswick Community College Lease Agreement (Old Jail)
Mayor Howard informed the Board that the City had previously entered into a
lease agreement with Brunswick Community College for its pottery classes to be
held at the Old Fire Station. The college was asked to vacate the facility
effective June 15, 2012 in order to accommodate the City's renovation plans.
The City does not need the space at this time because funding and
specifications are not completed. He recommended that the lease be extended on
a month to month basis through the end of October.
Alderman Adams moved, seconded by Alderman Barnes to extend the lease with
Brunswick Community College on a month to month basis through October 31, 2012
for continued use of the old Fire Station. Vote unanimous. (Lease Incorporated
as Attachment #2)
XII.    City Manager Comments
Mr. Thomas encouraged the Board to attend Town Hall Day sponsored by the North
Carolina League of Municipalities' June 5-6, 2012 in Raleigh, N.C. May 16, an
Emergency Preparedness Briefing sponsored by Brunswick County will be held at
Progress Energy. Airport representatives will attend a Board meeting within the
next month to give their annual briefmg.
XIII.    Board Comments
Mayor Howard asked Board members to be cognizant of the City Manager's work
time due to the transition and budget preparation.
Appreciation was expressed by the Board to staff and community volunteers for
their work in cleaning the city. Alderman Coring extended special appreciation
to the community for the National Day of Prayer held for law enforcement and
the Board's adoption of the resolution to secure another road.
XIV.    City Attorney
City Attorney Isenberg explained to the Board that House Bill 848 of the
General Assembly's 1983 session converted all 99 year leases made by the Town
of Smithville into fee simple deeds. The bill recited that an attempt to
convert the leases into fee simple title was first done in 1812-1 813 but that
the commissioners of Smithville continued to issue 99 year leases until 1900
assuming that the 1812-1813 act automatically converted them to fee simple. The
purpose ofthe 1983 bill was to clarify this. He explained in 1983 when the
General Assembly voted the act was approved which the City of Southport
supported.
Mr. Dale McPherson asked if City records were researched showing where the City
supported this action. City Clerk Alexander attested that the records were
researched checked and she did not locate anything on this matter. Attorney
Isenberg noted that there is nothing that can be done at this time because
people rights are vested.
X.    Adjournment
   No further business, meeting adjourned at 8:00 p.m. upon motion of Alderman
Poole, seconded by Alderman Adams, vote carried.
                     ______________________________
                     Mayor
______________________________
City Clerk
MAY 31, 2012
SPECIAL MEETING (BUDGET)
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN             SPECIAL MEETING (BUDGET)
MAY 31, 2012                  6:00 P.M.
CITY HALL (ALDERMEN CHAMBERS) SOUTHPORT, N. C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Todd Coring
          Ken Karn
          Mary Ellen Poole
         Buddy Barnes,
         Nelson Adams
          Jim Powell
STAFF PRESENT:   Pat Thomas, City Manager
         Regina W. Alexander, MMC-City Clerk
         Jim Philyaw, Finance Director
Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
Alderman Coring gave the welcome and pronounced the invocation.
Mayor Howard stated the purpose of the meeting was to receive the City of
Southport’s proposed operating budget for FY 2012-2013.
City Manager Thomas presented the proposed operating budget for FY 2012-2013
which includes no tax or fee increases. The budget message and summary of
revenues and appropriations included. A copy of the budget is placed on file
with the City Clerk and available for public inspection at the James and
Margaret Harper Library.
ANNUAL BUDGET MESSAGE FY 12-13
CITY OF SOUTHPORT
To: The Honorable Mayor and Board of Aldermen
From: Patrick Thomas, City Manager
Overview
Since the budget process did not begin until the arrival of a new city manager
on April 16, its preparation this year has been a very challenging process.
Department have had to rapidly respond to a late-starting timetable, a new city
manager had to rapidly familiarize himself with city operations and projects, a
relatively new finance director has had to accelerate his familiarization with
his department, and we experienced significant difficulty in tracking some
previous accounting practices and actions. This challenge has also been
increased by the need to accomplish several improvements in budget development.
These have included the following:
∙   The need to increase department heads’ familiarity with the details and
building blocks of their financial plans;
∙   The need to re-visit the basic details from which line item and
departmental are constructed and to question traditional assumptions;
∙   The need to achieve significantly greater consistency in the classification
of expenditures;
∙   The need to shape the budget in manner that clearly reflects any goals
clearly expressed by the governing board;
∙   The need to re-shape certain portions of the budget to increase budget
management accountability.
Despite these challenges, the department heads have tried hard to respond to
the demands of a re-vamped budget process, and the finance director has
attempted to respond to a significant volume of requests for detailed budget
information. Their efforts to help produce a sound budget for FY 12-13 are
deeply appreciated.
Preparation of the fiscal 2012-13 budget has also occurred against a back-drop
of other issues that present significant – and sometimes increasing – financial
challenges to municipal governments. These issues include, for example:
∙   A still-recovering economy that has adversely affected revenue growth and
has negatively affected some rates of revenue collections;
∙   New, severe restrictions on municipal annexation, affecting cities and
towns’ abilities to maintain a balanced and fair revenue base;
∙   Actions of the legislature that have significantly slashed programs – such
as the Clean Water Management Trust Fund, the Parks and Recreation Trust Fund,
and the Public Beach and Waterfront Access Program – that have historically
played an important role in community improvements in coastal areas.
Budget Structure
Despite the very limited time available in which to prepare the budget, several
changes in budget structure have been made that are designed to make the budget
(a) more understandable, (b) more goals-focused, and (c) easier to use and
manage. These changes and additions include the following:
1.   Information about the mission of each department, its human resources, and
its goals for the coming year;
2.   More specific information about costs within line items and the basis of
those costs (although this process could not be developed as thoroughly as
desirable due to the time constraints);
3.   Much more consistent assignment of costs to line item categories;
4.   The separation of costs related to Administration and Finance, in order to
allow more specific budget management;
5.   The re-establishment of a budget division for the maintenance of
cemeteries (last included in the budget in FY 08-09), and the re-assignment of
one significant maintenance responsibility – the city dock – to Parks and
Recreation;
6.   The creation of a Non-Departmental budget division to reflect costs that
are not specific to an operational department, principally transfers to other
funds (such as capital project funds and future capital needs);
7.   The very modest beginning of Capital Reserve funds to set aside funds for
identified future capital needs;
8.   The tightening of budget allocations where possible, coupled with the
inclusion of contingency allocations in each budget, so that management can
respond to any genuine needs that may develop.
Revenue Outlook
The outlook for major revenues (the City receives almost 90% of its annual
revenues from just eight sources) is somewhat mixed. Improving retail sales are
expected to produce healthy growth in sales tax revenue, and franchise tax
revenue, which had slumped somewhat, is also expected to stage a modest
recovery. On the other hand, the still-struggling construction industry has
weakened building inspections revenue, and there remains no sign of increases
in some revenue sources, such as county support for the rescue squad. Ad
valorem taxes are expected to produce a modest increase, but we have concerns
about the collection rate, and a successful challenge to the county’s
revaluation of boats has resulted in a substantial reduction in the levy
related to boats. The budget does not propose any change in the existing
$0.2456/$100 rate in the ad valorem tax levy, but, if the scale of desired
community improvement projects increases in the near future, the tax rate will
need to be reconsidered at that time.
In the enterprise funds, the revenue trends are decidedly different. Warmer
temperatures in the last year led to a major decline in electric system
revenue, which, fortunately, was largely offset by reduced purchases of
wholesale power. Temperatures are expected to be more normal in the coming
year, which should lead to some degree of recovery in these revenues.
The Water and Sewer Fund, on the other hand, experienced a six percent-plus
surge in sales revenue in FY 2011-12. Its overall revenue picture was clouded,
however, by receipts of sewer impact fees that were far below expectations –
expectations that may have been based, in part, on the now-cancelled
annexations. A significant amount of fund balance is being used to balance the
Water and Sewer Fund budget in FY 12-13. However, this is tempered by the facts
that (a) the majority of the cause is one-time expenses – the local share of a
Corps of Engineers project to protect a lift station and the last reimbursement
payment for a Clean Water grant – and (b) the City received (this fiscal year)
over $1.3 million in sewer impact fee reimbursements from the South Brunswick
Sanitary District. No change in water and sewer rates is proposed at this time,
but there could always be a need to re-visit this issue if the county increases
wholesale water costs or sewer treatment costs above the levels anticipated in
the budget.
Operational Costs
Department heads have been helpful in efforts to re-shape the budget process,
and this has led to a General Fund budget in which seven of the twelve current
budget divisions have recommended budgets that are lower than FY 11-12 and
three other departments are essentially unchanged. The only two budgets that
are higher contain relatively modest increases. The one new operational budget
division – Cemeteries – is under $18,000.
The budget includes a two percent pay level adjustment for full-time employees
and anticipates that a salary and wage study will be undertaken during the year
to determine whether any additional pay level changes are needed in specific
positions. Funds have been set aside in an Administration contingency
allocation to pay for any needed adjustments, as well as to fund any
appropriate merit increases. The same management contingency will also be the
“safety valve” for any needs that arise that were not anticipated in slimmed-
down recommendations for many line items.
Southport, a community of less than 3,000, starts each fiscal year facing a
substantial cost related to former employees – over $150,000 in annual costs
related to its generous retiree health care insurance program. Over 15 former
employees participate in the program, and the premiums for their coverage
–which are equivalent to about 2.4 cents on the tax rate – are, in many cases,
significantly higher than those for active employees. The City has received one
bit of good news with respect to benefit costs: its group health insurance
costs for active employees will drop about 8% in the coming year (the result of
decisions regarding the League of Municipalities insurance pool). On the other
hand, workers compensation insurance rates are expected to rise by about 26
percent.
The amount of capital equipment being recommended in the budget is fairly
modest this year – two police patrol vehicles, a fire brush truck, a cardiac
monitor to support emergency medical services, and a trailer-mounted generator
for sewer pump station back-up. However, transfers to a new Capital Reserve
fund are recommended for future vehicle and equipment needs in Streets, Rescue,
Electric, and Water and Sewer, as well as for a document retrieval system for
official records. In addition, provisions have been made to replace existing
radio equipment with new narrow-band radios and to improve technology resources
– replacement of outdated computer equipment in several departments and a new
software system for management of building inspection records. One ambulance
will be replaced to support emergency medical services, but payments on the
vehicle are not expected to begin until the following fiscal year.
Services and Projects
The Board’s desire to see grounds and rights-of-way better and more
consistently maintained has been reflected in the specific allocation of
resources – partly in the form of part-time workers and partly in the form of
contract services funding – to maintain rights-of-way, parks, and cemeteries.
This should sustain this spring’s Board initiative to place more emphasis on
these services.
The recommended Parks and Recreation budget contains allocations for upgrades
to facilities at several parks and buildings, as well as the resurfacing of the
Ft. Johnston tennis courts and additional improvements to the city dock (for
which some repairs are already scheduled this spring). A stepped-up program of
street resurfacing and sidewalk construction is planned, using Powell Bill
funds.
One of the most important projects for the coming year, of course, will be the
planned improvements to the City Hall and to work spaces for other city
departments, such as Police, Rescue, and Code Enforcement. The budget contains
a $500,000 transfer to a capital project fund to support this project. Also
included is the estimated $180,000 City share of the Lord Street pump station
revetment, various upgrades to 13 different sewer collection facilities, and
continuation of the electric system pole replacement and meter replacement
programs.
Funding has already been set aside in a project budget for one initiative
planned during the upcoming year – the preparation of a waterfront access and
development plan, including an action plan for implementation.
Fund Balances
A summary of projected fund balances at June 30 for the various major funds is
included as an enclosure with this message. The estimated fund balances are
considered sufficient, after reservations of minimum balances under city
policy, to fund the amounts appropriated to balance the budget.
Summary
This budget represents our management team’s best effort to prepare a financial
plan that is thrifty and efficient, while still providing funding to help
implement Board goals and initiatives. We pledge to work diligently to achieve
your goals, to provide community services as economically as possible, to
accomplish more with less whenever possible, and to continuously seek
additional resources to help accomplish community improvements. I commend this
budget to you as a sound and reasonable financial plan for the operation of
City government in the coming fiscal year.
Yours in public service,
Pat Thomas
City Manager and Budget Officer
SUMMARY OF REVENUES AND APPROPRIATIONS FY 12-13
                             GENERAL FUND
REVENUES                                  APPROPRIATIONS
Ad Valorem Taxes, Penalties, 1,685,200    Governing Board            188,500
Interest
Sales Taxes                  655,800      Administration             216,100
Privilege Licenses           21,000       Finance                    250,500
Room Occupancy Tax           53,000       Buildings & Grounds        138,600
Utility Franchise Taxes      303,400      Garage                     171,400
Inspection Permit Fees       70,000       Police                     963,400
Fire District Fees           625,000      Fire                       784,700
EMS Transport Fees           120,000      Planning /Code Enforcement 329,000
County Support - Rescue      36,000       Rescue                     199,800
Refuse Collection Fees       150,000      Streets                    191,200
Recreation Programs Revenue  28,700       Solid Waste                143,000
Community Building Rentals   105,000      Cemeteries                 17,500
ABC Store Distribution       235,000      Parks & Recreation         500,500
Other Revenues               113,650      Tourism                    214,200
Fund Balance Appropriated    674,650      Non-Departmental           568,000
                             4,876,400                               4,876,400
 
POWELL BILL FUND
NC Powell Bill 96,000          Street Repairs & Storm 20,000
Distribution                   Drainage
Other Revenue       200          Sidewalk Repairs &       20,000
                                 Improvements
Fund Balance        43,800       Street Resurfacing       100,000
Appropriated
                    140,000                               140,000
                                ELECTRIC FUND
Revenues                         Appropriations
Electricity Sales   6,736,400    Salaries and Benefits    334,255
Utility Sales Tax   202,100      Purchase of Power        5,699,300
Underground Service 50,000       Contract Services -      338,000
Installation                     System Mntnc.
Service Charges     104,000      Capital Outlay -         241,000
                                 Facilities
Other Revenues      7,000        Capital Outlay -         100,000
                                 Underground
Fund Balance        0            Other Expenses           386,945
Appropriated
                    7,099,500                             7,099,500
 
WATER & SEWER FUND
Water/Sewer Sales         2,217,900  Salaries and Benefits        493,990
Sewer Impact Fees         40,000     Water Purchases              460,000
Other Revenues            15,000     Sewer Allocation Cost        333,400
Fund Balance Appropriated 848,000    Contract Services            410,100
                          3,120,900  CWMTF Grant Repayment        562,000
                                     USACE - Revetment Cost Share 180,000
                                     Debt Service                 145,480
                                     Other Expenses               535,930
                                                                  3,120,900
 
   Mayor Howard asked Board members to review the budget and further discussion
would be held during the budget work session(s) scheduled June 4, 6:00 p.m.
   The Board agreed to hold a Public Hearing June 14, 6:00 p.m. on the proposed
budget and special meeting for budget adoption June 21, at 5:30 p.m.
   No further discussion, the meeting was adjourned at 7:20 p.m. upon motion of
Alderman Barnes, seconded by Alderman Karn, vote carried.
                     ______________________________
                     Mayor
______________________________
City Clerk
JUNE 4, 2012
SPECIAL MEETING (BUDGET)
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN             SPECIAL MEETING (BUDGET)
JUNE 4, 2012                  6:00 P.M.
CITY HALL (ALDERMEN CHAMBERS) SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Todd Coring, Ken Karn,
         Mary Ellen Poole, Buddy Barnes,
         Nelson Adams, Jim Powell
 
STAFF PRESENT:   Pat Thomas, City Manager
         Regina W. Alexander, MMC-City Clerk
         Jim Philyaw, Finance Director
I.   Call to Order - 6:00 p.m.
   Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m. and gave the
invocation.
II.   Budget Work Session
   City Manager Thomas presented additional information upon request of Board
members for their review in budget deliberation. The following matters were
discussed:
·   History of pay increases for employees from prior year(s).
·   Position allocations including employee benefit package.
·   Spreadsheet showing impact of 2% increase on salaries and benefits, which
equate to approximately $40,000.
·   The financing for the new fire station and payment arrangements from fire
fees and the general fund was referenced by Mayor Howard. City Manager Thomas
will review this further.
·   City Manager Thomas noted that the proposed operating budget is reduced
approximately $180,000 down from last year including some departmental budgets.
·   Mr. Thomas reported that the Corp of Engineers’ calculations for the Bay
Street Revetment Project did not include real estate cost. Mr. Thomas explained
that there may be added cost to the project if property owners are not willing
to grant easements to the City. Matching funds for this project will be
allocated from the Water & Sewer Fund.
·   Mr. Thomas stated that insurance benefits for 17 retired employees total
$152,726.16.
·   Alderman Karn asked about raising rent on City boat slips. Mr. Thomas
stated that the work being performed is structural and safety, however it his
belief that the dock should be upgraded before implementing a rate increase.
Mayor Howard suggested this issue be referred to the Rate Review Committee.
·   Alderman Karn expressed concern about allocating monies from fund balance.
Mr. Thomas explained that revenues are budgeted conservatively and he does not
anticipate spending all monies budgeted. Of the $1.2 million budgeted, $700,000
with sound management practices will possibly be expended. He informed the
Board that $562,000 will be paid back to the general fund from the Water and
Sewer Fund that was borrowed to pay the Clean Water Management Trust Fund
Grant.
·   Alderman Adams suggested that a portion of the unused $70,000 budgeted for
overtime    last year be used to adjust employees pay. Mr. Thomas noted that he
will conduct a    salary and pay study this year with some funds to be
allocated for merit.
·   Other budgeted items referenced were monies for City Hall Renovations,
Capital Projects, Waterfront Study and resurfacing of tennis courts at Ft.
Johnston.
·   Mayor Howard expressed concern about the City growing internally and
providing incentives to attract people to live within the City limits.
Apprehension was expressed over limitations placed on Cities by the General
Assembly and not being able to expand through annexation.
·   City Manager Thomas informed the Board that there are some legal questions
concerning an opt out plan for health insurance for employees 65 years of age
and older; he will continue to look into this.
·   Electric Fund – The Board questioned the policy on hanging banners in the
City, who should be allowed, the cost and who authorizes banners. All agreed
that a Policy should be established by the City because the cost to hang
banners is included in Brunswick Electric’s contract.
·   Master plan for undergrounding discussed. Brunswick Electric will provide a
cost estimate.
·   Mayor Howard stated the City needs to maintain it parks, but noted the
Parks and Recreation budget is over $500,000. He asked about cost sharing some
of the programs with Brunswick County.
·   The Department of Tourism budget was discussed, Community Building and
projected revenues and the cost of part-time employees to maintain the
facility. For information, it was asked if the building could be contracted to
a private company.
·   Alderman Karn asked about public rest rooms and Mr. Thomas noted that these
are being considered in the capital project fund during renovation of city
buildings.
·   Alderman Coring stated the City Dock is among many needs in the City and
encouraged the Board to begin filling in the gaps. He cited sidewalk
connections as a problem particularly for disabled citizens with motorized
wheelchairs. Alderman Coring questioned the need for a new trailer mounted 25
kw generator for water and sewer for lift stations. He stated that the City has
an 80 kw that was initially purchased for emergencies located on a trailer
behind the old fire station.
   Mayor Howard asked the Board to continue review of the budget for further
comments during the next budget work session. Public Hearing on the budget will
be held June 14, 6:00 p.m. and after the meeting, a budget workshop.
   Meeting adjourned upon motion of Alderman Barnes, seconded by Alderman
Adams, vote carried.
                     _________________________________
                        Mayor
_____________________________________
City Clerk
JUNE 14, 2012
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN             REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
JUNE 14, 2012                 6:00 P.M.
CITY HALL (ALDERMEN CHAMBERS) SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Todd Coring, Ken Karn, Mary Ellen Poole, Buddy Barnes,
         Nelson Adams, Jim Powell
STAFF PRESENT:   Pat Thomas, City Manager
         Regina W. Alexander, MMC-City Clerk
         Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
         Jim Philyaw, Finance Director
         Heather Hemphill, Director of Parks & Recreation
         Amy Nelson, Director of Planning
         Cindy Brochure, Director of Tourism & Economic Development
         Jerry Dove, Chief of Police
I.   Call to Order - 6:00 p.m.
   Mayor Howard called the meeting to order.
II.   Invocation / Welcome
   Alderman Powell welcomed everyone to the meeting and Chief Dove pronounced
the invocation.
III.   Special Recognitions – Mayor Howard
   Mayor Howard recognized the following persons and presented certificates of
appreciation and outstanding accomplishments to:
·   Police Officer Melissa Hinnant – Advanced Certificate
·   Police Reserve Officer James Brown – Certificate of Appreciation
·   Richard Bandera – Planning Board – Certificate of Appreciation
·   South Brunswick High School Students Outstanding Achievements
Justin Hill, Meredith Rhodes and Gary Williams
IV.   Consent Agenda
   Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Barnes to approve the consent
agenda, vote was unanimous.
   A. Minutes May 10, Regular Meeting Minutes and May 31, Special Meeting
Minutes
   B. Budget Amendment: Re-designation of Grant Repayment Source
   C. Budget Amendment: Storm Debris Revenues and Expenses
   D. Grant Project Ordinance: Downtown Banners Project
V. Approval of the Agenda
   Alderman Powell moved to approve the agenda, seconded by Alderman Poole.
Vote unanimous.
VI. Public Hearings
   A. Proposed City of Southport Budget - FY 2012-13
   Alderman Barnes moved to enter Public Hearing on the proposed FY 2012-13
budget, seconded by Alderman Poole, vote unanimous.
   Mr. Ed Boguskie of 502 West Brown Street addressed several areas in the
budget for clarification. Mr. Thomas explained that some items in the budget
have been identified in other departments or line items. Mr. Boguskie
questioned the use of fund balance. Mr. Thomas explained that using fund
balance is because of the Board’s commitment to special projects which is a one
time expenditure. Mr. Boguskie thanked staff for a job well done.
   Mr. Woody Wilson of 502 West Brunswick Street commended the City Manager on
the budget format. He asked the City Manager for clarification on other
expenditures   totaling $535,000. City Manager Thomas stated the detail in the
budget will show the summary of expenses. Mr. Wilson asked about the $50,000
revenue shown in the electric fund for underground installation. Mr. Thomas
explained that this is money paid up front by developers for underground
service, which balances out.
   There being no further comments from the public, Alderman Adams moved to
close the Public Hearing, seconded by Alderman Barnes. Vote unanimous.
   B. Unified Development Ordinance Text Amendment – Ice Vending Machines
    Alderman Barnes moved to enter Public Hearing to receive comments on the
Unified Development Ordinance Text Amendment, Ice Vending Machines, seconded by
Alderman Coring. Vote unanimous.
   Tish Hatem, Planning Board Chair and Amy Nelson, City Planner addressed the
Board. Ms. Hatem noted that all recommendations from Aldermen were incorporated
in the change. Alderman Powell asked about the stand alone machines. Ms. Hatem
noted that if ice vending machines are located in the business district, they
must be attached to a business and stand alone machines can be located in the
highway commercial district. Alderman Barnes noted that approval would be a
conditional use. No additional comments, motion by Alderman Barnes to close the
Public Hearing, seconded by Alderman Powell. Vote unanimous.
VII. Public Comments
   No public comments.
VIII. Committee Reports
   1) Transportation Committee – Alderman Powell
   The Transportation Committee recommended that the City ask the North
Carolina Department of Transportation to upgrade three highway intersections
within Southport’s extra-territorial jurisdiction. The purpose being is to
route commercial traffic away from the heavily congested business district.
·   Request to add a right turn lane to Jabbertown Road at NC 87 (near Stewart
Hardware)
·   Remove super-elevation and widen inside radius of turn at the intersection
   of East Moore Street Extended and East Leonard Street Extended
·   Prune tree limbs on inside of right turn from NC 211 onto East Moore Street
Extended (near the roundabout) for better visibility
·   Add signage to identify routes coming out of ADM and directing them towards
Jabbertown Road (S.R. 1526) via Leonard Street.
   Mayor Howard explained that this recommendation is part of the City’s effort
to gain an additional emergency evacuation road out of Southport while
providing an alternate truck route alleviating truck traffic off of residential
streets including the downtown business district. City representatives are in
communication with private partners to assist the City in funding construction
of the road.
   Alderman Powell motioned to adopt a resolution and submit recommendations to
the North Carolina Department of Transportation, seconded by Alderman Poole.
Vote unanimous.
   2) Southport Beat Committee – Alderman Poole
   Alderman Poole reported that the Southport Beat Celebration will kick-off
June 15th. It will be held the second Friday of each month through September.
The businesses will stay open late, live music will be provided in Franklin
Square Park and children games will be held in Keziah Park. Mayor Howard
encouraged support from the citizens.
   3) Fort Johnston Committee – Alderman Karn
   Alderman Karn stated the Ft. Johnston Committee presented a recommendation
for consideration concerning the accounting of monies from the Museum Store,
realizing that the City Manager will make the final decision.
   4) 4th of July Committee – Alderman Karn
   Alderman Karn, reported on concerns by the 4th of July Committee about
disposing sewer from the port a johns during the 4th of July holiday. They
previously dumped in the City sewer system and if not allowed, it will cost
additional monies to transport the sewer to Wilmington. Alderman Powell
explained that the products used in the port a johns kill off the bugs in the
city sewer and is not a good practice because all the good bacteria is
destroyed which can result in odor problems. Alderman Karn asked the City to
give a $1500 donation to the 4th of July Committee, the same as last year which
will help to defray the cost of disposing sewer from the port a johns. He moved
to authorize the $1500 donation to the 4th of July Committee, seconded by
Alderman Barnes. Discussion: Alderman Adams cautioned the Board to be cognizant
of donating money to the July 4th Committee because the City already makes
significant contributions. Alderman Barnes stated July 4th is very important to
the City and the amount requested is minimum. Motion passed 5 ayes, Karn,
Barnes, Coring, Poole and Powell. 1 no, Alderman Adams.
   Alderman Powell noted the production company Safe Haven stated that they
will participate in some of the expenses of the parade and questioned if this
request could be considered. Mayor Howard stated that the production company is
working with the July 4th Committee and this is an expense of the Committee,
not the City.
   5) Waterfront Property – Land Acquisition
   Mayor Howard apprised the Board of a meeting that he, Aldermen Poole, Barnes
and City Manager Thomas attended with the bank representatives that own the
property in the Yacht Basin, which the City is trying to acquire. A formal
presentation was presented i.e. pictures and explanations of why the city want
the property.
IX. Departmental Reports (included in agenda packet)
X. Old Business
XI. New Business
   A. UDO Amendment – Ice Vending Machines
   Alderman Karn moved to adopt the resolution amending the Unified Development
Ordinance to add self service vending machines as a conditional use in the
Highway commercial and Business District, seconded by Alderman Powell. Motion
passed with 4 ayes, Alderman Karn, Coring, Powell and Mayor Howard. 3 noes,
Alderman Adams, Poole and Barnes.
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE, WITH RESPECT TO BASIC DEFINITIONS AND
INTERPRETATIONS, THE TABLE OF PERMITTED USES, AND CONDITIONAL USES, TO PERMIT
SELF SERVICE ICE VENDING MACHINES
WHEREAS the Planning Board of the City of Southport has considered and
communicated in writing its determination that the proposed amendment of the
Unified Development Ordinance to permit self-service ice vending machines is
consistent with the city’s comprehensive plan and any other applicable official
plans and has recommended approval of said amendment; and
WHEREAS the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport finds, pursuant to North
Carolina General Statute 160A-383 that the proposed UDO amendment is consistent
with an adopted comprehensive plan; and
WHEREAS the Board of Aldermen considers the proposed amendment to be reasonable
and in the public interest because it will promote orderly growth and
development and because appropriate regulation of the proposed use will promote
the public welfare; and
WHEREAS a public hearing on the proposed amendment of the Unified Development
Ordinance has been conducted, after proper notice as required by law;
BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the Unified Development Ordinance of the City of Southport is
amended as follows:
Section 1. ARTICLE 2: BASIC DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS
Section 2-2 “Definitions of Basic Terms” is amended by adding the following
definition in alphabetical sequence:
Self-Service Ice Vending Machine: A stand-alone ice production machine that may
operate without full time service personnel. These units are activated by the
insertion of money, credit cards, check cards, token, or similar means; ice is
bagged automatically or dispensed in bulk outside to the consumer. In addition
to site plan review by the Zoning Administrator, several permits and approvals
are required, including but not limited to electrical, plumbing, sewer
connection, and city business license. Health Department certification may be
required.
Section 2. ARTICLE 10: TABLE OF PERMITTED USES:
The Table of Permitted Uses is amended by adding “Self-Service Ice Vending
Machine”, and by placing a “C” entry in the BD (Business District) and HC
(Highway Commercial) columns.
Section 3. ARTICLE 12: ZONING & CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT APPROVAL
Section 12-19: Supplemental Regulations
“Regulations for Conditional Uses”, is amended by adding a new section, to be
inserted in alphabetical sequence, to read as follows:
Use: Self-Service Ice Vending Machine, Conditional Use, District: BD and HC
Self-Service Ice Vending Machine and Other Similar Uses. Where permitted, self-
service ice vending units, or other similar uses, shall comply with the
following minimum standards.
(a)    Self-service ice vending machines or other similar uses shall be an
accessory to an existing business or commercial entity in the Business District
(BD). Machines may be located as an accessory for convenience stores, car
washes, and marinas of twenty (20) boat slips or more.
(b)    Self-service ice vending machines or other similar uses may be located
in the Highway Commercial (HC) District as a stand-alone business.
(c)    Said units shall not be located in a residentially-zoned district.
(d)    No self-service ice vending machine or other similar use shall encroach
into the minimum required setback. Except where directly abutting an existing
business or commercial establishment, additional setbacks may be required if
deemed appropriate.
(e)    Architectural features of any self-service ice vending machine or other
similar
   use shall be complementary to existing development in the immediate area.
Building elevations shall be submitted with each application considered for
approval.
(f) The foundation of each unit shall be screened by skirting, lattice or
landscaping.
(g) Roof-mounted or other equipment on top of the unit shall be screened by a
parapet wall.
(h) Within 30 (thirty) calendar days of the closure or ceasing of operations of
any self-service ice vending unit or other similar use, all equipment and
incidentals shall be removed from the premises.
(i) Landscaping: Where a self-service ice vending machine or other similar use
is proposed as an accessory to an existing business location that has an
approved site plan on record with the Planning Director, skirting, lattice or
landscaping shall be provided around the foundation of the unit. If the
landscaping option is chosen, the planting of vegetation indigenous to the
immediate natural coastal ecosystem is preferred to promote proper plant life
development and maturation. A list of plants provided by the Brunswick County
Agricultural Extension Services as compatible to this planting zone and climate
are kept in the office of the Planning Director. While not all-inclusive, it
should be used as a guideline in selecting predominately coastal North Carolina
native species. Requirements of Article 18, Buffer Strips and Landscaping,
provisions of the City of Southport Unified Development Ordinance shall apply.
(j) Where a self-service ice vending machine or other similar use is proposed
adjacent to residentially zoned property, a buffer shall be installed according
to Article 18-1, Buffer Strips, in the City of Southport Unified Development
Ordinance.
(k) Access: Ingress and egress shall be located where such will not impede
pedestrian or vehicular traffic flow. The existing access or driveway of the
primary business shall be utilized, unless deemed inappropriate.
(l) Vehicle Parking and Stacking Lane. Four (4) standard parking spaces shall
be available on the site. In the design of the area around the self-service ice
vending machine, a provision will be made for the stacking of vehicles on the
property. The stacking area will be designed to avoid a backup of vehicles on
to the public right of way. The design standard for the stacking requirements
will include:
   (i) Required stacking lane shall be a minimum of eight feet wide by one
hundred fifty (150) feet long in total length with a vertical clearance of
fifteen (15) feet in order to accommodate full-size pickup trucks with boats on
trailers.
   (ii) The stacking lane shall be located on private property and as much as
possible to the rear or side of the lot. In no case shall a stacking lane be
arranged or located in any way that impedes off-site traffic movements on
adjacent public roadways.
 
Section 4. When provisions of this ordinance call for addition of new sections
in alphabetical sequence, the new provisions shall be numbered in sequence with
previous numbers and all succeeding provisions of a section shall be re-
numbered accordingly.
Section 5. This ordinance shall be effective upon its adoption.
   Adopted by the City of Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, June
14, 2012.
                  /s/ Robert D. Howard
                  Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Regina Alexander, City Clerk
   B. Proposed Rezoning – Howe Street Area - Amy Nelson, City Planner
   Ms. Nelson, City Planner presented a rezoning proposal from the Planning
Board recommending rezoning along both sides of Howe Street between 12th Street
and 1427/1430 North Howe Street be changed from Highway Commercial (HC) to
Business District (BD). The Planning Board believes this move is keeping with
the CAMA Core Land Use Plan.
   Alderman Karn asked what prompted the rezoning proposal. Ms. Nelson stated
the self serving ice vending machines could have prompted the Planning Board to
look at this issue.   
   Alderman Barnes asked if property owners had been notified of the proposed
rezoning because they could have purchased the properties with one use in mind
and rezoning could change the permitted use. He recommended property owners be
contacted for their input and the Planning Board review this further before
bringing it back to the Board.
   Alderman Adams questioned why all the changes and noted the numerous hours
spent on developing the Unified Development Ordinance.
    City Manager Thomas suggested the Planning Board engage the public to
ascertain their position on rezoning. Mayor Howard suggested once this is done,
a joint workshop be held with the Planning Board and Aldermen. The Planning
Board was given a directive to continue work on this issue by meeting with the
citizens and formulate a recommendation for presentation to the Board of
Aldermen.
   C. Audit Contract –Berry, Padgett & Chandler
   Mr. Jim Philyaw, Finance Director presented the Audit Contract with Berry,
Padgett & Chandler, LLC for FY 2011-12. The contract includes a 2% increase
totaling $40,595. Alderman Adams moved to approve the contract and to authorize
execution by Mayor Howard, seconded by Alderman Powell. Vote unanimous. (Copy
of Contract Incorporated as Attachment #1)
      D. Planning Board Appointments – Alderman Poole
   Alderman Poole, Chairman of the Planning Board Committee with members
Alderman Barnes and Tish Hatem recommended the following persons be appointed
to the Planning Board and motioned for acceptance, second Alderman Barnes. Vote
unanimous.
·   Chadwick Huggins
·   Hilary Meehan
   Alderman Poole announced that an ETJ alternate position is currently
available which has been advertised.
XII. Other Business
   1) Robert Ruark Collection
   Mayor Howard asked the Board to approve an amendment to the original
agreement between Stephen Bliss and the City of Southport with a change stating
“in the event that the City of Southport is later unable or unwilling to
exhibit these artifacts, the City agrees to turnover all memorabilia to the
Robert Ruark Society of Southport, NC within six months.”
   Alderman Adams moved to approve the amended agreement, seconded by Alderman
Poole. Vote unanimous.
XIII. City Manager Comments
   Maritime Memorial - City Manager Thomas told the Board of a meeting he and
Mayor Howard attended with a Committee proposing to locate a maritime memorial
in Southport. He asked that staff be given permission to evaluate locations and
bring a recommendation to the Board. Mayor Howard noted that the initial
request was to locate the memorial at the Whittler’s Bench, which was not
authorized by the Board; however, it is a good concept to honor those who
worked in the maritime industry. Alderman Poole motioned to authorize the City
Manager to look for a location to install the memorial because of its
importance to the heritage of the City. Motion seconded by Alderman Barnes.
Vote unanimous.
   N.C. Maritime Museum Lease - Mr. Thomas informed the Board that the two year
lease with the N.C. Maritime Museum of Southport will expire and the Friends of
the Museum has asked the City to consider renewing the lease for 10 years and
the N.C. Department of Cultural Resources has committed their support.
   Mayor Howard stated he supports renewing the lease as requested.
      Alderman Adams stated opposition to committing City property for ten
years and recommended a five year lease. Mr. Thomas noted that the agreement
has a 60-day clause if the City wanted to terminate the agreement.
    Attorney Isenberg stated the Board can approve a five-year lease with the
option for renewal in five years and noted the lease has an escape clause with
sufficient notice.
   Alderman Adams moved to authorize the City Manager and City Attorney to work
with the State to draft a lease for five years with the option for automatic
renewal, seconded by Alderman Barnes, the vote of approval was unanimous.
   Grant Award: The City received notification of a grant award for a
pedestrian comprehensive plan in the amount of $24,800 with local match of
$6200. The grant will pay for the study of sidewalks and repairs.
   Summer Intern: City Manager Thomas introduced Mr. James Trey Burke, a
graduate student in the Master’s of Public Administration program at
Mississippi State University who has volunteered as a summer intern with the
City.
   Public Services Director: Mr. Robert Tucker was introduced as the new Public
Services Director and comes with extensive experience and background in
government.
XIV. Board Comments
    Proclamation: Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Barnes to adopt a
proclamation in recognition of the annual celebration held at the Alvin C.
Caviness Park June 16, 2012. Vote unanimous.
   Alderman Barnes welcomed Trey Burke, summer intern, and Robert Tucker, new
Public Services Director.
   Alderman Poole reiterated support for Southport Beat and commended Alderman
Karn for his work with the N.C. 4th of July Committee.
   Alderman Adams and Powell welcomed the summer intern and Public Services
Director.
   Alderman Coring welcomed the new employees and congratulated Officer Hinnant
on her advanced certificate. He commended the emergency services responders
over the weekend for their support and commended the response of the Rescue,
Fire and Police Department i.e. other volunteers during the fire this past
weekend.
   Alderman Karn encouraged the citizens’ indulgence during the filming of two
movies in the City. (Safe Haven, Mary & Martha)
RECESS – 7:47 p.m.
   Mayor Howard called the meeting back to order at 8:02 p.m. and proceeded to
open discussion on the proposed FY 2012-13 budget. Supplemental information was
presented by the City Manager. Mayor Howard reading from a prepared statement
asked the Board to join with him in directing the City Manager to reduce his
proposed budget by 15-16%. Mayor Howard stated using 16.6% ($674,650) from the
reserve funds, which is generally set aside for emergencies, major
infrastructure, repairs and replacement, does not present a balanced budget. He
proposed that the commitment be honored for waterfront improvements, City Hall
renovations and ambulance services. In order to accomplish this, the proposed
general operating budget requires some reductions. He noted that the citizens
would not tolerate a tax increase, therefore; cuts must occur in the general
fund operating costs.
   City Manager Thomas stated if the city was not undertaking a major building
renovation program; the budget would be close to zero because the remainder of
the amount that makes up the $674,650 of fund balance is primarily
contingencies and capital reserves. If the Board looks at balancing current
revenues against current operations, the budget is balanced. Major projects the
City may undertake would come from fund balance if other reserves are
maintained.
   Alderman Karn stated that the proposed budget include some contingency,
capital reserve funds, and capital projects. After reviewing the budget, it
will be a challenge to reduce 16%. Fund balance is used for major capital
projects as proposed. However, he does share concerns that the City continues
to spend from fund balance.
   Alderman Powell expressed his concern about the fund balance.
   Alderman Barnes stated the City should operate like a business and some cuts
are needed.
He cited the private sector making cutbacks and referenced the generous
employee benefit package i.e. insurance and the cost of providing this, which
equates to 40% in the budget.
   Mayor Howard expressed appreciation to staff and commended the City Manager
for compilation of the budget. He reiterated the need to streamline operations
and programs.
   Alderman Powell referenced aging buildings and non-compliance with ADA
regulations, the need for an elevator at City Hall, and possibly eliminating
positions to balance the budget.
   Alderman Adams questioned the Parks & Recreation budget totaling $500,000.
   Mayor Howard asked staff to revisit the budget. City Manager Thomas asked if
the Board was directing him to reduce the proposed budget by 15%. Mayor Howard
explained that this was a challenge from the Board and staff needs to know the
Board’s desire to cut the budget.   
   Alderman Adams stated the City Manager knows what the Board’s desire is and
directed the City Manager to make the cuts, Alderman Poole agreed.
   Alderman Coring stated cutting the budget 15% is too much and cautioned the
Board against reducing the budget. Alderman Coring asked Alderman Barnes to
explain how the City’s benefits are too generous. Alderman Barnes stated that
Brunswick County does not provide the level of benefits to its employees and
the City should be more in line with other municipalities and private
businesses.
   Alderman Adams stated that this should have been mentioned before the budget
was compiled, and this is the first time that he has heard about insurance
since the Board’s Retreat. Mayor Howard stated that this is possible because of
the time it takes to review documents after submittal by the City Manager.
   No further business, it was the consensus of the Board that the City Manager
revisits the budget and submit his recommendations at the June 21st meeting.
(5:30 p.m.)
   Meeting was adjourned upon motion of Alderman Barnes, seconded by Alderman
Adams. Vote unanimous.
                     _________________________________
                      Mayor
______________________________
Clerk
JUNE 21, 2012
BUDGET WORKSHOP MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN            BUDGET WORKSHOP MINUTES
JUNE 21, 2012                5:30 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS(CITY HALL) SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Buddy Barnes,
         Nelson Adams, Ken Karn, Todd Coring, Jim Powell
STAFF PRESENT:   Pat Thomas, City Manager
         Michele Windham, Deputy City Clerk
         Jerry Dove, Chief of Police
         Heather Hemphill, Director of Parks & Recreation
         Amy Nelson, Director of Planning
         Cindy Brochure, Director of Tourism & Economic Development
         Robert Tucker, Director of Public Services
I.   Call to Order - 5:30 p.m.
   Mayor Howard called the meeting to order.
II.   Invocation/Welcome
   Alderman Powell welcomed everyone to the meeting and Chief Dove pronounced
the invocation.
III.   Announcements
   Mayor Howard announced that the Brunswick County Board of Education has
expressed an interest in working with the City on development opportunities at
Stephens Park. City Manager Thomas was directed to facilitate the efforts and
report back to the Board.
   Mayor Howard announced that construction on the Brunswick Community College
Lord Street satellite campus is expected to start June 25 with completion
within 180 days according to contractual obligations.
   Mayor Howard reported on a conversation with Senator Rabon regarding
occupancy tax; no resolution at this time.
   Mayor Howard recommended two items be added to the meeting; Ft. Johnston
Museum Store per request of City Manager Thomas and the Rate Review Committee
Report per request of Alderman Barnes who indicated the recommendations of the
committee could affect the budget.
   Discussion:
   Aldermen Karn and Adams stated that consideration of the Rate Review
Committee recommendations should be held during a regular meeting.
   Alderman Barnes moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to add consideration of the
Ft. Johnston Museum Store.
Unanimous vote; motion carried 6-0.
IV.   New Business
Ft. Johnston Museum Store
   City Manager Thomas explained the operation of a Ft. Johnston Museum Store;
various products formerly sold at the Visitors Center from multiple non-
profits, individuals, etc. will be purchased at wholesale prices, put into
inventory and sold at a slight markup. Consistent with a recommendation from
the Ft. Johnston committee, Manager Thomas recommended appropriation of up to
$10,000 to purchase inventory. He estimated a $15,000 revenue.
   Alderman Barnes suggested establishing a separate fund for revenues of the
Museum Store to be used for improvements to the Garrison House. Alderman Karn
pointed out the agreement between the City and the National Parks Service
require any money generated be put back into the property. Manager Thomas
indicated the City exceeds the agreement requirements.
   Alderman Barnes moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to accept staff
recommendation for up to $10,000 to purchase inventory for the Museum Store.
Unanimous vote; motion carried 6-0.
V.   Budget Review
   Mayor Howard gave an opening statement concerning the fiduciary
responsibility of the Board.
   Alderman Karn presented a PowerPoint overview of the budget as originally
presented and as submitted with a 15% reduction.
   Alderman Powell thanked Alderman Karn for the presentation and stated his
opinion cuts need to be made.
   Alderman Adams expressed his support of the original budget presented.
   Alderman Poole stated her appreciation of the City Manager’s efforts to
identify areas that could be cut.
   Alderman Barnes echoed Aldermen Poole’s comments and stated his support for
City employees.
   Board consensus to consider each budget section as presented by the City
Manager.
   GENERAL FUND REVENUES  
   For Consideration: Increase privilege license fees, increase recreation
program fees, increase boat slip rentals, transfer from Water & Sewer to
Garage, and transfer from Powell Bill to Streets.
   Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Barnes to accept the recommended
General Fund Revenues.
Unanimous vote; motion carried 6-0
   GENERAL FUND EXPENDITURES
•   All General Fund Departments; Salaries, Wages, and Benefits; 401k
Retirement Supplement
   For Consideration: Eliminate 2% pay plan adjustment for employees and reduce
401k contribution for non-police employees from 5% to 3%.
   Alderman Coring moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to not make an adjustment
in the All General Fund Departments line items.
Ayes:   Aldermen Coring, Karn, Barnes, Poole, Adams
No:   Alderman Powell
Motion carried 5-1.
•      Governing Board; Salaries
   Alderman Barnes moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to eliminate the Planning
Board members meeting fees.
Ayes:   Aldermen Barnes, Poole, Adams, Mayor Howard
No:   Aldermen Karn, Coring, Powell
Motion carried 4-3.
•      Governing Board; Health Insurance
   Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to change the health
insurance payment to a $400/month supplement.
Ayes:   Aldermen Powell, Poole, Barnes, Adams, Coring
No:   Alderman Karn
Motion carried 5-1.   
•      Governing Board; Professional Fees
   Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Barnes to reduce professional
fees by $13,000 as recommended. Unanimous vote; motion carried 6-0.    
•      Governing Board; Donations
   For Consideration: Eliminate donations to outside organizations.
   Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Barnes to oppose eliminating
donations. Unanimous vote; motion carried 6-0.   
•      Governing Board; Contingency
   For Consideration: Reduce contingency by $10,000.
   Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to reduce the contingency
from $20,000 to $10,000. Unanimous vote; motion carried 6-0.
•      Administration
   For Consideration: Reduce professional services, training & travel,
eliminate Employee Assistance Program, reduce contingency amount.
   Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to reduce the Contingency
line item by $20,000 and leave all other line items as originally presented.
Unanimous vote; motion carried 6-0.
         Finance
For Consideration: Eliminate part-time salaries, FICA associated with part-time
wages, office furniture purchases, reduce training and travel and change all
credit card payments to third party.
   Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Barnes to reduce department
supplies by $16,000, change credit card payments to third party and reject all
other Finance Department line item budget recommendations.
Ayes:   Aldermen Karn, Barnes, Adams, Coring, Powell
No:   Alderman Poole
Motion carried 5-1.   
•      Buildings & Grounds
For Consideration: Eliminate all part-time salaries, FICA associated with part-
time wages, reduce training and travel.
   Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to reject the budget
reductions. Unanimous vote; motion carried 6-0.
•      Garage
For Consideration: Reduce departmental supplies by $800.
   Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to reject the budget
reductions. Unanimous vote; motion carried 6-0.
Recess: 6:48 p.m.
   Mayor Howard called a recess in order for the Planning Board to convene
their regular meeting and change the meeting venue to the Community Building.
Reconvene:   7:16 p.m.
•      Police
For Consideration: Eliminate evening and weekend desk clerks, FICA associated
with part-time wages, reduce Community Resource Program, and eliminate one
patrol vehicle.
   Alderman Coring moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to leave the budget as
originally proposed without any changes.
Aye:   Aldermen Coring, Karn, Adams, Barnes
No:   Aldermen Powell, Poole
Motion carried 4-2.   
•   Planning & Code Enforcement
For Consideration: Eliminate full-time city planner position, include reserve
for unemployment insurance, reduce funding for removal of dilapidated
structures, eliminate inspections software and computers, and provide funding
for contract planner services.
   Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Barnes to accept the proposed
reductions with the exception of reducing funding for removal of dilapidated
structures and elimination of inspections software and computers.
Aye:   Aldermen Powell, Barnes, Poole and Mayor Howard
No:   Aldermen Karn, Coring, Nelson
Motion Carried 4-3.
•      Parks and Recreation
   For Consideration: No open gym, 3 months; discontinue one aerobics class,
eliminate beautification projects, reduce Crab Derby, eliminate new Senior
Fishing Tournament, reduce Jaycee Building painting, reduce Caviness Park
improvements, delete Keziah Park lighting, cut Senior Building flooring, and
delete Ft. Johnston tennis courts resurfacing.
   Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Coring to reject all potential
reductions in the Parks and Recreation budget.
Aye:   Aldermen Karn, Coring, Barnes, Adams (Abstained)
No:   Aldermen Powell, Poole
Motion Carried 4-2.  
•      Tourism and Economic Development
   For Consideration:
   Scenario 1: Existing organizational arrangement, cuts to specific line items
and curtailed tourism program.
   Scenario 2: Separate operations; part-time community building coordinator,
curtailed tourism program (visitors center/museum only), cuts to various line
items.
   Scenario 3: Separate operations; full-time community building coordinator,
part-time visitor center/museum coordinator, curtailed tourism program, cuts to
various line items.
   Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to accept Scenario 2
Budget Revision.
Ayes:   Aldermen Powell, Poole, Barnes and Mayor Howard
No:   Aldermen Adams, Coring, Karn
Motion Carried 4-3.   
•      Non-Departmental
For Consideration: Eliminate allocation for potential storm-related expenses,
eliminate savings for document retrieval system, streets equipment, forego
major down payment on improvements, and provide initial seed/interest funding,
finance most of improvements.
   Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Adams to not make any changes to
the Non-Departmental Budget.
Ayes:   Aldermen Karn, Adams
No:   Aldermen Poole, Barnes, Coring, Powell
Motion Failed 4-2.
   Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to accept the reduction of
$350,000 from the Transfer to Building Improvements Fund line item and leave
the other line items as originally proposed.
Ayes:   Aldermen Powell, Barnes, Poole, Karn, Coring
No:   Alderman Adams
Motion Carried 5-1.
   ELECTRIC FUND
   For Consideration: Reduce pole replacement, reduce meter replacement, reduce
new underground installations and reduce contingency.
   Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to accept the reduction of
$55,000 for Line item 7210-5800, Capital Outlay-Facilities.
Ayes:   Aldermen Powell, Poole
No:   Aldermen Adams, Barnes, Karn Coring
Motion failed 4-2.
   WATER & SEWER FUND
   For Consideration: Increase transfer to General Fund for garage services,
reduction in Brunswick County contracted services for wastewater treatment and
reduce contingency.
   Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Barnes to accept change in
Contracted Services for County wastewater treatment rate cut.
Unanimous vote; motion carried 6-0.
   Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Barnes to reduce contingency
line item by $20,000.
Ayes:   Aldermen Powell, Poole, Barnes, Adams, Coring
No:   Alderman Karn
Motion carried 5-1.
   Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Barnes to increase the transfer
to General Fund for garage services.
Unanimous vote; Motion carried 6-0.
VI.   Adjournment
   On a motion by Alderman Karn, seconded by Alderman Barnes, the meeting was
recessed at 8:37 p.m. until Monday, June 25 at 6:00 p.m. Unanimous vote.
                     __________________________________
                        Mayor
________________________________
   Clerk
JUNE 25, 2012
SPECIAL (BUDGET) MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN             SPECIAL (BUDGET) MEETING
JUNE 25, 2012                 6:00 P.M.
CITY HALL (ALDERMEN CHAMBERS) SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Todd Coring, Ken Karn, Mary Ellen Poole, Buddy Barnes,
         Nelson Adams, Jim Powell
STAFF PRESENT:   Pat Thomas, City Manager
         Regina W. Alexander, MMC-City Clerk
         Jim Philyaw, Finance Director
I.    Call to Order – 5:30 p.m.
   Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m., which was advertised
and posted in accordance with G.S. 143-318.12(b) by the City Clerk.
II.    Invocation & Welcome
   Alderman Powell welcomed everyone and Chief Dove pronounced the invocation.
III.   Budget
   Mayor Howard acknowledged receipt of the budget addendums from the City
Manager.
   Alderman Barnes, Chair of the Rate Committee presented the following
recommended rate changes from the Committee, recommended the Community Building
be separated from the Tourism Department, and asked the Board to direct the
City Manager to implement this change. Alderman Barnes motioned to approve the
City’s rate structure, seconded by Alderman Poole. Discussion: Alderman Coring
asked about the $2 charge for basketball. It was explained that staff has to
open the gym and be present while opened. Alderman Barnes explained that there
are no recommended changes in Community Building rental fees. No further
questions, motion passed unanimously.
 
PROPOSED RATE AND FEE CHANGES
 
 
 Existing Rates  Proposed Rates
 
 Resident Non-Resident Resident Non-Resident
 
PARKS & RECREATION RATES/RECOMMENDATIONS
Youth Summer Camp $180/3 weeks                 $210/3 weeks   $235/3 weeks
             $360/6 weeks                 $400/6 weeks   $450/6 weeks
                  $540/ 9 weeks                $580/9 weeks   $655/9 weeks
After School      $40/week      $40/week       $50/week       $60/week
Program
Youth Basketball  $40.00        $45.00         $55.00         $60.00
Registration
Aerobics Class    $20/month     $20/month      $35/month      $40/month
Basketball - Open $0.00         $0.00          $2/session     $2/session
Gym
Senior Citizen    Admission +$3 Admission + $3 Admission +$5  Admission +$5
Trips
Swimming Lessons  BCC rate + $5 BCC rate + $5  BCC rate + $10 BCC rate + $10
(6) at BCC
Jaycee Building   $100/4 hours  $100/4 hours   $125/4 hours   $150/4 hours
Rental
Senior Building   $100/4 hours  $100/4 hours   $125/4 hours   $150/4 hours
Rental
Gymnasium Rental*                              $150/4 hours   $200/4 hours
Park Rentals      $75.00        $75.00         (see below)    (see below)
 
Kingsley, Keziah, Riverwalk, Caviness Parks  $75 hours $125 hours
 
                                          $20/hour over 4 $30/hour over 4
Franklin Square, Lowe-White $75.00 $75.00 $125 hours      $175 =4 hours
Parks
                                          $30/hour over 4 $45/hour over 4
 
(Waterfront Park and City Pier not rented)
 
*Separate, higher rate for film productions is set by Board policy
FINANCE RECOMMENDATIONS
Business Privilege Licenses
Merchant - Retail, Miscell. (97) $10.00    $10.00 $50.00    $50.00
Contractor (Sub) (92 licenses)   $25.00    $25.00 $50.00    $50.00
Miscellaneous (88 licenses)      $25.00    $25.00 $50.00    $50.00
Boat Slip Fees                   $65/month        $75/month $150/month
COMMUNITY BUILDING
 
General Public/Business - Non-Southport Resident Rates
 
Weekend and Evening Events
Entire Building             $400/hour  $475/hour
 
Adopted by the Board of Aldermen on June 25, 2012
 
Life Insurance: The Board reinstated the City’s life insurance for Board
members at a cost of $319 per year upon request of Alderman Adams. City Manager
Thomas stated the cost could be accommodated within the recommended budget.
 
   Alderman Adams motioned to adopt the FY 2012-2013 budget with recommended
changes excluding life insurance for Aldermen, seconded by Alderman Poole.
Discussion: Alderman Karn stated the recommended cuts works against the City
goals and it will be difficult for employees to perform their jobs, it has not
been explained why one city employee is being cut from the budget; and he
cannot support the budget as recommended. The vote: Motion passed 5 ayes,
Adams, Poole, Coring, Powell and Barnes. 1 no, Karn.
BUDGET ORDINANCE - FISCAL YEAR 2012-2013
CITY OF SOUTHPORT   
BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that, following a duly advertised public hearing, the following
annual budget ordinance is adopted to estimate revenues and make appropriations
for the financial operations of the City of Southport for the fiscal year
beginning July 1, 2012 and ending June 30, 2013.
SECTION I. GENERAL FUND
A. Anticipated Revenues. The following revenues are estimated to be available
in the General Fund for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2012 and ending June
30, 2013:
Ad Valorem Taxes, Current Year            $    1,601,630
Motor Vehicle Taxes               $ 53,570
Interest and Penalties on Ad Valorem Taxes         $    5,000   
Ad Valorem Taxes, Prior Years            $    25,000
Dog Tags/Citations                  $    1,500
Local Option Sales Tax               $    655,800
Privilege Licenses                  $    30,000
Room Occupancy Tax               $    53,000
Beer & Wine Tax                  $    13,500
Utility Franchise Taxes               $    302,400
Inspection Permit Fees               $    70,000
Homeowners Recovery Fees            $    500
Stormwater Permit Fees               $    500
Re-Inspection Fees                  $    450
Planning and Zoning Fees               $ 5,000
Fire District Fees                  $    625,000
Fire Department Donation – Progress Energy      $     12,000
Rescue Squad Support – Brunswick County         $    36,000
Rescue Squad Donation – Progress Energy         $    5,000
Rescue Squad Transport Fees            $    120,000
Police – Miscellaneous Revenue            $    3,000
Cemetery Lot Sales and Fees            $    6,000
Refuse Collection Fees               $ 150,000
Recreation Program Fees and Rentals         $    28,700
Tourism – Special Events               $    5,000
Transfer from Water & Sewer Fund (Garage Reimb.)   $    24,000
Transfer from Electric Fund (Garage Reimbursement)   $    6,500
Transfer from Powell Bill Fund (Streets Maintenance)   $    110,000
Interest/Investments                  $    2,000
Rentals – Community Building            $    105,000
Tourism – Miscellaneous Revenues            $    4,000
Sale of Fixed Assets               $ 2,000
Southport ABC Distribution               $    235,000
ABC Distribution for Law Enforcement         $ 9,200
Miscellaneous Revenues               $    2,300
Miscellaneous Fire Receipts               $    200
Sale of Products – Visitors Center            $    15,000   
Boat Slip Rentals                  $    19,000
Appropriated Fund Balance               $         50,400
 
Total Revenues                  $ 4,404,550
B. Expenditures. The following amounts are hereby appropriated in the General
Fund for the expenses of the town government and its activities for the fiscal
year beginning July 1, 2012 and ending June 30, 2013:
Governing Body                  $    143,250   
Management                  $    196,100
Finance                     $    234,500
Buildings and Grounds               $    138,600
Garage                     $    171,400
Police                     $    963,400
Fire                        $    584,500
Planning & Code Enforcement            $    298,100
Rescue                     $ 199,800
Streets                      $    191,200
Solid Waste                     $    143,000
Cemeteries                     $    17,500   
Parks and Recreation               $    500,500
Community Building               $    93,730
Tourism and Economic Development         $    100,770
Non-Departmental                  $     418,200
 
Total Appropriations               $ 4,404,550
SECTION II. POWELL BILL FUND
A.   Anticipated Revenues. The following revenues are estimated to be available
in the Powell Bill Fund for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2012 and ending
June 30, 2013:
Powell Bill State Street Aid               $    96,000
Interest Earnings                  $ 200
Fund Balance Appropriated               $ 153,800
 
Total Revenues                  $ 250,000
B.   Expenditures. The following amounts are hereby appropriated in the Powell
Bill Fund for expenses for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2012 and ending
June 30, 2013:
Street Repairs/Supplies               $    10,000
Storm Drainage                  $    10,000
Sidewalks                     $    20,000
Street Resurfacing                  $    100,000
Transfer to General Fund (Street Maintenance)      $    110,000
 
Total Expenditures                  $    250,000
SECTION III. SOUTHPORT FIREMEN FUND
A.   Anticipated Revenues. The following revenues are estimated to be available
in the Southport Firemen Fund:
Estimated Fund Balance Brought Forward      $    7,000
Firemen Fund Contributions            $    7,000
Total                     $ 14,000
B.   Expenditures. The following amounts are appropriated for expenses in the
Southport Firemen Fund:
Firemen Fund Expenses               $    14,000                     
SECTION IV. ELECTRIC FUND
A.   Anticipated Revenues. The following revenues are estimated to be available
in the Electric Fund for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2012 and ending June
30, 2013:
Sale of Electricity                  $   6,736,400
Utility Sales Tax                  $    202,100
Underground Service Installations            $    50,000
Service Charges                  $ 104,000
Load Management Switch Sales            $ 2,000
Interest Earnings                  $  5,000
 
Total                     $ $7,099,500
B.   Expenditures. The following amounts are hereby appropriated in the
Electric Fund for expenses for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2012, and
ending June 30, 2013:
Salaries and Benefits               $    334,255
Purchase of Power                  $    5,699,300
Contract Services - System Maintenance         $    338,000
Capital Outlay - Facilities               $ 241,000
Capital Outlay - Underground            $ 100,000
Other Expenses                  $  386,945
 
Total                     $ 7,099,500
SECTION V. WATER AND SEWER FUND
A.   Anticipated Revenues. The following revenues are estimated to be available
in the Water and Sewer Fund for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2012 and
ending June 30, 2013:
Water/Sewer Service Sales               $   2,217,900
Water/Sewer Tap Fees               $    5,000
Sewer Impact Fees                  $    40,000
Water Impact Fees                  $ 9,000   
Interest Earnings                  $ 1,000
Appropriated Fund Balance               $ 795,000
Total                     $ $3,067,900
B.   Expenditures. The following amounts are hereby appropriated in the
Electric Fund for expenses for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2012, and
ending June 30, 2013:
Salaries and Benefits               $    493,990
Water Purchases                  $     460,000
Sewer Allocation Cost               $    333,400
Contract Services                  $ 370,100
CWMTF Grant Repayment               $    562,000
USACE – Revetment Cost Share            $ 180,000
Debt Service                  $ 145,480
Other Expenses                  $  522,930
 
Total                     $ 3,067,900
SECTION VI. GENERAL FUND CAPITAL RESERVE FUND
A.   Anticipated Revenues. The following revenues are estimated to be available
in the General Fund Capital Reserve Fund.
Transfer from General Fund               $    48,000
B.   Expenditures. The following amounts are hereby appropriated in the Capital
Reserve Fund for future capital equipment expenses:
Reserve for Document Retrieval System         $ 8,000
Reserve for Street Vehicles/Equipment         $    20,000
Reserve for Rescue Vehicles/Equipment         $ 20,000
 
Total                     $ 48,000
SECTION VII. ELECTRIC FUND CAPITAL RESERVE FUND
A.   Anticipated Revenues. The following revenues are estimated to be available
in the Electric Fund Capital Reserve Fund.
 
Transfer from Electric Fund               $    20,000
B.   Expenditures. The following amounts are hereby appropriated in the Capital
Reserve Fund for future capital equipment expenses:
 
Reserve for Electric Fund Vehicles/Equipment      $    20,000
SECTION VIII. WATER AND SEWER FUND CAPITAL RESERVE FUND
A.   Anticipated Revenues. The following revenues are estimated to be available
in the Water and Sewer Fund Capital Reserve Fund.
 
Transfer from Water and Sewer Fund         $    20,000
 
B.   Expenditures. The following amounts are hereby appropriated in the Capital
Reserve Fund for future capital equipment expenses:
 
Reserve for Water/Sewer Vehicles/Equipment      $    20,000
 
SECTION IX. BUILDING IMPROVEMENTS CAPITAL PROJECT FUND
 
A.   Anticipated Revenues. The following revenues are estimated to be available
in the Building Improvements Capital Project Fund:
 
Transfer from the General Fund            $    133,200
B.   The following amounts are hereby appropriated in the Building Improvements
Capital Project Fund for expenses:
 
Design and Construction Expenses            $   133,200
SECTION X. TAX RATE
There is hereby levied, for fiscal year 2012-2013, a tax at the rate of $0.2456
on each one hundred dollars ($100) of assessed valuation of property located
within the Town of Southport for the purpose of raising revenue in the General
Fund.
SECTION XI. BUDGET OFFICER AUTHORITY
The City Manager (Budget Officer) is hereby authorized to transfer
appropriations within a fund and between funds under the following terms:
 
A.   He may transfer amounts between objects of expenditures (line items)
within a departmental appropriation.
B.   He may transfer amounts between appropriations within the same fund,
provided that a report of such transfers shall be made no later than the next
regular financial report to the Board of Aldermen.
C.   He may approve un-budgeted inter-fund transfers, up to $5,000, provided
that a report of such transfers shall be made no later than the next regular
financial report to the Board of Aldermen.
D.   He may transfer and/or utilize appropriations contained in contingency
appropriations within a fund (except for contingency amounts within the
governing board appropriation) or in emergency fund appropriations.
E.   He may authorize temporary transfers of cash among funds as necessary to
meet cash flow needs.
F.   He may transfer funds from capital reserve funds, up to $20,000 per
purpose, to meet current needs for the purpose for which such funds are being
held in reserve, provided that a report of such transfers shall be made no
later than the next regular financial report to the Board of Aldermen.
 
All other transfers of funds between appropriations or budget funds shall be
accomplished by Board amendment of this ordinance.
SECTION XII. CONTINUING AUTHORIZATION
Previously-adopted capital project budgets, grant project budgets, and special
reserve funds are hereby re-authorized, and revenues and appropriations made
for all such funds shall remain authorized on an ongoing basis until such
projects are completed and/or all funds are utilized. At the conclusion of such
capital projects or grant projects, any residual, unexpended local funds shall
be transferred to the general government or enterprise fund with which the
project is associated.
SECTION XIII. BUDGET IMPLEMENTATION
This ordinance and the supporting budget document shall be the basis of the
financial plan for the City of Southport municipal government for the 2012-2013
fiscal year. The budget officer shall administer the budget and shall insure
that the finance officer and department heads of the city are provided with
sufficient guidance to properly implement this plan. Copies of the budget
ordinance shall be furnished to the city manager and the finance officer for
their use and direction in the disbursement of funds and to the city clerk for
the official records of the city.
SECTION XIV. ADOPTION
This ordinance has been adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in special
session on June 25, 2012, upon the motion of Alderman Nelson Adams and the
second of Alderman Mary Ellen Poole , with a vote of 5 ayes and 1 no and shall
be effective July 1, 2012.
                  __________________________________
                  Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:
________________________________
Regina Alexander, City Clerk
IV. Risk Management Policy – Cannon Firing
   Mayor Howard informed the Board of a complaint from a Wilmington resident
that the cannon shooting over Memorial Day Weekend damaged his hearing. The
cannon belongs to the Southport Historical Society and the City Manager is
determining if in fact, this would come under the City’s liability insurance
since it was discharged from City property. Mr. Thomas developed proposed
policies for review regarding future cannon firings to protect the City.
   Alderman Karn called for a point of order stating that this matter was not
on the agenda. Mayor Howard noted that the Clerk posted a special meeting
notice, which included this item, and he will allow the matter to be heard for
information.   
   Alderman Coring asked if the Board would receive public comments. Mayor
Howard stated the Board would receive information because this could result in
a lawsuit.
   Alderman Adams cautioned the Board to be careful regarding statements until
consultation with the City Attorney.
   Alderman Barnes asked if the Southport Historical Society was contacted. Mr.
Thomas stated since the alleged incident occurred on City property, the
Historical Society was not contacted by the individual.
   City Manager Thomas told the Board after Memorial Day, the City received a
claim of injury from an individual who said his hearing was damaged because of
proximity to the cannon “Thor” and his injury has been medically verified. Upon
learning of this, he researched risk management policies of other organizations
for use of muzzled loading artillery. There are at least three different civil
war artillery organizations with public information about safety procedures.
The State of North Carolina has a policy for state park sites. The North
Carolina League of Municipalities’, which is the City’s Insurance Carrier, does
not cover this type of situation. Mr. Paul Miller, the NCLM Risk Management
Specialist, discussed various measures to protect the City’s interest and made
recommendations.
·   Permit/permission for firing weapons on city property
·   Weapons discharged at specified locations
·   Visible and marked safety perimeter around the cannon
·   General liability insurance provided by those involved with the cannon,
minimum of $1 million dollars with the City named as an additional insured.
·   Desirable to have hold harmless indemnification agreement
·   Audible and posted warnings of an impending firing around the location
   Mr. Thomas affirmed that he contacted a member form the Historical Society
to inquire about insurance and procedures. He produced a draft policy for Board
consideration, which incorporate some of the recommendations from the Risk
Management Specialist.
   Alderman Adams stated that the City should be notified of any cannon firings
and permits required.
   Mayor Howard asked that this matter be placed on the July agenda and the
City Manager to report on insurance.
V.   Safe Haven Movie Production
   Mayor Howard told the Board about concerns addressed to him from residents
in the Yacht Basin area about plans by the movie Safe Haven to burn the general
store. He stated that they are supportive of the movie, but concerned about the
proximity of a large oak tree and some of the homes. He realize that
representatives from the special effects department met with the Fire Chief and
other City officials to discuss their plans; however, he asked that a
representative from the Film Company attend the July 12 meeting to discuss this
issue.
VI. Adjournment – 7:00 p.m.
   Meeting adjourned upon motion of Alderman Powell, seconded by Alderman
Poole. Vote unanimous.
                     ___________________________________
                     Mayor
_______________________________
City Clerk
JULY 12, 2012
MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN             MEETING MINUTES
JULY 12, 2012                 6:00 P.M.
CITY HALL (ALDERMEN CHAMBERS) SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Todd Coring, Ken Karn, Mary Ellen Poole, Buddy Barnes,
         Nelson Adams and Jim Powell
STAFF PRESENT:   Pat Thomas, City Manager
         Regina W. Alexander, MMC-City Clerk
         Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
         Jim Philyaw, Finance Director
         Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
         Cindy Brochure, Tourism & Economic Director
I.    Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
   Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:04 p.m.
II.   Invocation
   Alderman Poole gave the invocation and welcomed everyone to the meeting.
III.   Special Recognitions and Presentations
   1) Video – Mike Haas Garage Band
   The Board listened to a song and viewed a video written and produced by Mike
Haas and the Garage Band of St. James, NC. Ms. Cindy Brochure, Tourism and
Economic Development Director introduced Mike Haas and acknowledged that the
band helped raise $580 at the Rocking on the River Concert, which benefitted
the Tourism & Economic Development Department.
   Mayor Howard and the Board lauded the song and asked for permission to
continue using it.
   Mayor Howard acknowledged the opening of the renovated Visitor’s Center and
Museum at Fort Johnston and thanked Cindy Brochure, staff and volunteers.
   2) N. C. Fourth of July Committee
   The following Resolution of Appreciation was presented to Bob Krasnow,
President of the N.C. Fourth of July Festival, Karen Sphar, Executive Director
of the Chamber of Commerce and Alderman Ken Karn, City Liaison.
RESOLUTION OF APPRECIATION
WHEREAS, Southport, North Carolina is the official home of the N.C. Fourth of
July Festival; and
WHEREAS, Independence Day is the anniversary of the day on which the
Declaration of Independence was adopted by the Continental Congress on July 4,
1776; and
WHEREAS, the community of Southport has celebrated our nation’s independence
for over 200 years, and
WHEREAS, the community festival was incorporated in 1972 as the N.C. Fourth of
July Festival; and
WHEREAS, the festival has grown from a community affair to be recognized over
the State of North Carolina; and
WHEREAS, it is estimated that the North Carolina Fourth of July Festival brings
in approximately 50,000 visitors annually, and
WHEREAS, staging a festival of this magnitude could not be accomplished without
the Fourth of July Executive Committee, President, Committee Chairpersons and
the hundreds of volunteers, support of businesses, government and the
community.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED,  I, Mayor Robert D. Howard, and the Southport
Board of Aldermen commend the N. C. 4th of July Festival Committee and its many
volunteers for its dedicated work for an outstanding 2012 Fourth of July
Celebration with parade, games, veteran’s recognition, naturalization ceremony,
flag retirement, freedom run/walk, craft shows firemen’s competition and
fireworks.
ADOPTED, this 12th day of July.
(Resolution signed by Mayor Howard, Aldermen Poole, Karn, Adams, Barnes, Powell
and Coring)
   Mayor Howard expressed gratitude to B.J. Gorman and Bald Head Island, Ltd.
for the use of their barge for the firework display.
   3) Brunswick County Airport
   Mr. Owen Garner, Southport’s representative on the Airport Commission and
Howie Franklin, Manager briefed the Board on airport operations and major
projects:
·   Runway resurfaced and new approach lights installed
·   Runway extended from 4300 feet to 5505 feet, which can accommodate larger
jets.
·   Airport renamed from Brunswick County Airport to the Cape Fear Regional Jet
Port
·   West side expansion completed
·   Open bids for parallel taxiway and construction should begin soon.
·   Future plans are terminal building on west side
·   Construction has been paid for with FAA grants (Aviation Trust Fund) and
because of
in- kind donation of land, this eliminated the need for local funding
   Mr. Franklin gave additional details about the progress of the Airport and
the overall economic impact. He noted that the State of North Carolina
Department of Transportation considers the Cape Fear Regional Jet Port one of
the busiest undeveloped airports in North Carolina. The economic impact study
for 2012 showed that 61.7 million dollars comes into Brunswick County, and the
overall impact of air aviation in North Carolina is 26 billion dollars. The
airport has 195 acres and considered green space due to the low environmental
impact. Thirteen businesses are located at the airport with two aircraft
maintenance shops i.e. a hertz rent a car agency. Mr. Franklin concluded that
Aviation in Brunswick County is a high value commercial industry making money
but provide excellent services to the public.
IV.   Consent Agenda
   Alderman Barnes moved, seconded by Alderman Coring to approve the consent
agenda
with correction. The vote was unanimous.
   Correction:  Alderman Karn noted an error in the June 25, special meeting
and asked that “ affect  be changed to effect”.
   1) Approval of Minutes: June 4, Special Meeting, June 14, Regular Meeting
             June 21, Budget Workshop, June 25, Special Meeting
    2) Acceptance of Improvements – Rivermist @ Dutchman Village, Block 5
   3) Resolution – Fourth of July Committee
   4) Committee Reports
V.   Approval of the Agenda
   Alderman Powell moved to approve the agenda, seconded by Alderman Poole. The
vote was unanimous.
VI.   Public Comments (Limit 3 minutes)
   Mr. Ed Boguskie of 502 West Brown Street, speaking on behalf of the
Southport Historical Society Cannon Crew asked that the section in the proposed
Risk Management Policy for Muzzle Loading Artillery be removed that prohibits a
bride and groom from standing next to the cannon for pictures.
   Mr. Boguskie told the Board that he put in a public record request with the
Clerk in May and had not received a response from some of the Board members.
   Mrs. Shirley Wilson of 502 West Brunswick Street addressed the Board
concerning the Tourism Department budget reductions and the need to operate a
viable tourism program to help market Southport.
   Mrs. Elizabeth Lytton of 117 Park Avenue, a visitor center volunteer thanked
the Board for the vision to establish a Visitor’s Center and Museum at the
Garrison House and expounded on the excellent job that Ms. Brochure and her
assistant did in helping to prepare the facility to be opened to the public,
and expressed concerns about the reduction in funding and lack of staff to
operate the facility.
   Mrs. Martha Johnson of 227 E. 11th Street expressed dismay over the Board’s
action to increase rates for the summer youth camp sponsored by the Parks &
Recreation Department. She admonished the Board for its decision to curtail
tourism activities when Southport’s economy is predicated on the tourism
industry; and asked the Board to reconsider their action.
   Safe Haven Movie Production: Mayor Howard acknowledged the production of
Safe Haven being filmed in Southport and reiterated the City’s support,
realizing the inconvenience to citizens, but with good communication obstacles
can be overcomed, while also realizing the economic impact to the local
economy.
    City Manager Thomas acknowledged the work of Brooke Barnhill, Location
Manager with Safe Haven Production and stated weekly updates will be provided
to keep citizens informed of changes that may occur. Chief Dove briefed the
Board on traffic control, which is being executed by Southport’s off duty
police officers. Fire Chief Greg Cumbee briefed the Board on the Fire
Department’s role in assuring that special effects and fire hazards are
performed safely and stated that a fire crew will be on set during this time.
He explained that after meeting with the special effects coordinator, safety
measures are in place, explaining that the building will not actually be set on
fire and the oak tree will be sprayed and protected.
   City Manager Thomas stated within the next weeks, other visible events would
occur with the movie production i.e. filming on the streets, photographing
vehicle movement and rolling roadblocks to control traffic around these events
i.e. aerial filming with helicopter, fireworks, and restaging a parade.
   Brooke Barnhill, Location Manager for Safe Haven, David Fletcher, Special
Effects Coordinator, and Pat Story, Publicist were present to answer questions.
    Mr. Fletcher explained that the process would give an illusion that the
General Store is burning, which he will control with propane. Everything in the
building will be removed and 16” fireboxes will be placed in every window with
propane lines running through them. No fire will exceed past the boxes, but the
illusion that the entire building is ablaze with smoke. The interior will be
wet down and fire retardant used i.e. sprinklers. A water curtain will be
erected to protect the oak tree. He told the Board that he has 26 years of
experience, 83 feature films and his job is to insure the safety of everyone.
   Alderman Barnes asked if the fireworks would take place 9:00 p.m. or 3:00
a.m. because of sightseers and people having to work. Mr. Fletcher acknowledged
that they are scheduled to shoot five days beginning July 23-27. He will ask
that the fireworks be set off early in the evening; however sometimes it is not
possible due to scheduling and the fireworks are an integral part of the scene.
    Mayor Howard asked for public comments.
   Mr. Robert Creech, 426 West Brunswick Street stated his concerns about
traffic and the condition of Brunswick Street. He asked that private property
be respected and more open communication from the production company in order
to avoid reactionary consequences.
    Ms. Barnhill addressed concerns and stated another letter would be
forthcoming to keep neighbors informed; however, some things may come up
unexpectedly, which she may not be aware. She stated in addition to the
fireworks, filming would take place three days inside of the old American Fish
Company and on the dock. Residents will have access to their homes. In August,
they will begin rolling roadblock and driving scenes from Moore Street to
Atlantic, Bay and Howe continuing to the Lowes parking lot and making a loop.
The Fourth of July parade will be recreated on August 8, with plans to close
Moore Street at Howe to North Atlantic. They will ask businesses to participate
by allowing additional Fourth of July bunting and flags to be hung, and then
they will move to the Southport Community Building and stage a dance out back
during the evening.
   Alderman Barnes questioned having someone placed at the beginning of Short
Street and West to prevent an influx of on lookers coming down the one-way
street. Chief Dove stated that he would post someone at this location.
Mayor Howard again thanked representatives from the Safe Haven Production and
encouraged all to insure that the people most impacted are kept informed.
   Mayor Howard stated that the City’s film coordinator is the City Manager and
complaints should be directed to his office.
VII.   Departmental Reports (included in agenda packet)
VIII.   Old Business
   1) Maritime Museum Lease Extension
   City Manager Thomas stated at the Board’s June 14 regular meeting, he
reported that the two-year concession agreement for the use of city property
for the Maritime Museum was expiring. The Friends of the Museum asked that the
agreement be renewed for a ten-year period, and the NC Department of Cultural
Resources expressed support for a ten year extension. The National Park Service
has also indicated that it has no objection to the ten-year extension of the
agreement.
   The Board voted to authorize the City Manager and the City Attorney to work
with the State to prepare a proposed new lease for five years with an option
for automatic renewal for an additional five years.
   Following the Board’s action, the City received a letter from the Friends of
the Museum asking that the Board reconsider its decision and allow a ten-year
lease extension.
   Mr. Thomas advised that State law provides that property owned by a City may
be leased for up to ten years if the governing board determines that the
property will not be needed by the city for the term of the lease (GS 160A-272
(a)). Leases of property must be authorized by a governing board resolution at
a regular board meeting following ten days published public notice. The notice
must describe the property, state the proposed lease payments, and announce the
board’s intent to authorize the lease at its meeting.
   Alderman Adams moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to grant the ten-year lease
extension to the Maritime Museum. The vote of approval was unanimous. (Copy of
Lease Incorporated, Attachment #1)
IX.   New Business
   1) Rescue Squad Ambulance Acquisition
    City Manager Thomas in his overview to the Board stated approval of the
Emergency Services Committee report regarding the Rescue Squad included the
acquisition of a new ambulance in FY 2012, with the acquisition to be financed
that would delay the initial payments until FY 13-14 and financing over a five-
year period.
   The Rescue Squad reviewed different options for purchase of a new ambulance
and believe the most cost-effective and expeditious option for acquiring a new
quality ambulance is to utilize the “piggy-backing exception.”
   State law (GS 143-129(g)) allows a local government to waive the bidding
process if determined, that it is in its best interests to do so and if another
unit of federal, state, or North Carolina local government has conducted a
public, formal bid process substantially similar to the process normally
required for the purchase of apparatus, supplies, materials, or equipment that
costs $90,000 or more. This “piggybacking exception” may be used if the
supplier is willing to furnish the item at the same or more favorable prices,
terms, and conditions as those provided to the other unit or agency.
   In order to utilize this bidding process exception, the purchase must be
approved by the governing body at a regularly scheduled meeting after at least
10 days published notice that a waiver of the bid procedure will be considered.
   The Rescue Squad Auxiliary has indicated its willingness to cover the cost
of transferring the radio equipment to the new unit and of purchasing and
installing a new Marvlis communications system in the ambulance.
   The Rescue Squad inspected the Taylor Made equipment and recommends that the
City purchase a Type III ambulance from Taylor Made – a 170-inch module on a
GMC G4500 diesel chassis – as set forth in the base bid, specifications, terms,
and conditions in the Davidson County bid, as well as the configuration options
specified by the Southport squad (which are detailed in the company’s
proposal).
   Alderman Coring moved, seconded by Alderman Barnes to accept the
recommendation of the Emergency Services Committee and to (a) advertise the
prospective acquisition of a Type III ambulance from Taylor Made Ambulance
based on waiver of the bid process as permitted by North Carolina law, (b)
authorize the finance director to pursue financing options for purchase of the
ambulance, and (c) and authorize the budget officer to prepare the necessary
budget amendment to appropriate funding (from the financing) for the purchase.
Vote: Unanimous.
   (Approval of the purchase and budget amendment will be on the August agenda)
   2) Risk Management Policy – Muzzle Loading Artillery
   Mayor Howard asked Attorney Isenberg for a recommendation to insure that the
citizens and city are protected. Attorney Isenberg stated if a bride and groom
wish to stand near the cannon for photos that they should sign a release.
   City Manager Thomas stated if someone voluntarily places themselves next to
the cannon, the release would be appropriate and can be included as a provision
in the policy.
   Alderman Poole asked that this section “4(b) Warning: The gun crew shall
issue a clearly audible warning to spectators and other persons around the
safety perimeter, indicating that loud noise may accompany the discharge,
immediately prior to the discharge of the gun. Posted warnings of loud noise
associated with the discharge of the gun are also recommended” be removed from
the policy since it is not a requirement.
Alderman Adams stated that it was his belief that the City currently issue
permits for cannon firings. It was noted by the City Manager that the current
permit only control the noise level. Alderman Coring agreed, but adopting the
policy is the right thing to do.
   Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Barnes to adopt the Risk
Management Policy – Muzzle Loading Artillery with the noted change. Vote of
approval unanimous.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND SAFETY POLICY
MUZZLE-LOADING ARTILLERY
CITY OF SOUTHPORT, NORTH CAROLINA
A. Purposes
The purposes of this policy are (a) to protect the safety of persons and
property and (b) to minimize the financial risk to the residents and taxpayers
of the City of Southport from the use of muzzle-loading artillery on municipal
property.
B. Application
This policy applies to the use of muzzle-loading artillery on all properties
owned or under the control of the City of Southport, including municipal
rights-of-way and easements (all, hereinafter, “city property”).
C. Requirements
Any person or organization that wishes to discharge muzzle-loading artillery on
a municipal property, right-of-way, or easement shall comply with the following
requirements.
1. Permission. Permits for use and discharge of the artillery must be granted
in writing by a municipal staff member with responsibility for supervision of
the site. The approving city official shall be responsible for providing these
requirements in writing to the owner of the artillery or his/her/its
representative and shall be responsible for insuring that the insurance and
indemnification requirements of this policy are met. No fees shall be charged
for such permits unless approved by the Board of Aldermen, and permits may be
issued at one time to covered multiple specific dates and locations.
2. Locations. Use and discharge of muzzle-loading artillery may take place only
in locations approved by a municipal staff member with responsibility for the
affected site. Locations selected and approved for this purpose shall be
selected to minimize the risk to spectators and bystanders.
3. Qualifications and Procedures. Persons involved in the discharge of muzzle-
loading artillery on city property must have received appropriate education,
training, and certification from the National Civil War Artillery Association,
the American Artillery Association, The American Civil War Society, the
Continental Line, or a similar nationally-recognized organized association that
issues operating procedures and safety standards for the use of muzzle-loading
artillery. The instructions and operating procedures of the applicable
organizations shall be used at all times in preparation for- and the firing of
muzzle-loading artillery on city property, provided that, if any provisions of
this policy establish more stringent requirements, they shall prevail.
4. Spectator Safety. The crew of the muzzle-loading artillery shall be
responsible for the following safety measures in association with the discharge
of the gun:
a. Safety Zone. A spectator safety zone shall be established that does not
allow spectators within 50 feet of the gun on any side and which extends at
least 100 feet wide for a distance of 100 yards in front of the muzzle. The
safety perimeter shall be clearly and visibly marked by cones, rope, or tape,
or similar delineation, and a safety officer or officers associated with the
gun crew shall police the perimeter to prevent spectator entry within the
safety zone prior to the discharge of the gun. No persons except members of the
gun crew shall be allowed within the safety zone during the discharge of the
gun.
b. Warning. The gun crew shall issue a clearly audible warning to spectators
and other persons around the safety perimeter, indicating that loud noise may
accompany the discharge, immediately prior to the discharge of the gun.
5. Insurance and Indemnification. The owner of the muzzle-loading artillery
shall provide the City with evidence of general liability insurance, covering
damage to persons or property, for the use of the muzzle-loading artillery,
with coverage of at least $1 million per incident and with the City listed as
an additional insured. The owner shall also provide the City with a written
statement, provided or approved by the City, indemnifying and holding harmless
the City from any responsibility or liability for allowing the discharge of the
muzzle loading artillery on city property.
Adopted by the City of Southport Board of Aldermen, July 12, 2012.
   3) Appointments: It was Board consensus to table appointments to the Zoning
Board of Adjustments, Planning Board and Forestry Committee until additional
information is received. (August meeting)
   Alderman Powell suggested staggering terms on the Beautification Committee.
City Manager Thomas noted the Board may wish to consider reducing the number of
appointees on
various committees. Alderman Adams questioned why members of some committees
are non-residents. The Board agreed that this topic may need to be discussed at
a workshop.
    Beautification Committee: Alderman Barnes moved, seconded by Alderman
Coring to reappoint Gloria Jones, Roy Pender, Marjorie Jones, Cheryl Daniels,
Judy Gordon, Mary Friend and Patrice Frink to the Beautification Committee for
a two-year term. Vote unanimous.
    ABC Board: Alderman Coring moved, seconded by Alderman Barnes to reappoint
Mr. Robert Jones for a three year term to the ABC Board. Vote unanimous.
X.   Other Business
XI.   City Manager Comments
   City Manager Thomas presented the following:
·   He will present a policy to the Board for consideration to declare some
city property surplus.
·   Reported that in communication with the Corps of Engineers, the Revetment
Project at Bay and Lord Streets could cost the City additional funds up to
$22,000.
·   He requested a workshop to discuss on-going projects i.e. Regional
Transportation Planning, Recycling Upgrade, Building Program, Waterfront
Improvement Plan, Legislative Policies and Process for Appointments.
XII.   Board Comments
   By consensus the Board agreed to hold a special meeting (workshop) on
Thursday, August 2, 2012, 9:00 a.m. (Location to be announced)
   Alderman Poole reminded everyone of the Southport Beat, July 20 from 5:00 –
8:00 pm
    Mayor Howard asked the City Manager about the schedule for resurfacing the
tennis courts at Fort Johnston. City Manager Thomas stated the work should
begin in August.
   Alderman Barnes asked if the Safe Haven schedule could be placed on the
City’s website. City Manager noted that the schedule changes, but would look
into this.
XIII.   Adjournment
No further business, the meeting adjourned upon motion of Alderman Adams,
seconded by Alderman Poole. Vote unanimous.
                        __________________________
                           Mayor
__________________________
Clerk
AUGUST 2, 2012
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES (WORKSHOP)
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN            SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES (WORKSHOP)
AUGUST 2, 2012               9:00 A.M.
FIRE DEPARTMENT HEADQUARTERS SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Todd Coring, Mary Ellen Poole, Buddy Barnes,
         Nelson Adams, Jim Powell and Ken Karn (Present 9:56 a.m.)
STAFF PRESENT:   Pat Thomas, City Manager
         Regina W. Alexander, MMC-City Clerk
         Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
         Jerry Haire, Consultant Planner
I.   Call to Order – 9:06 a.m.
   Mayor Howard called the meeting to order and pronounced the invocation.
II.   Agenda Items
   1.   North Howe Street Rezoning
   The Board by consensus agreed to hold a public hearing in September to
receive public comments on rezoning North Howe Street from 12th Street and the
area between 1427 and 1430 North Howe from highway commercial to business
district upon recommendation of the Planning Board. He stated that the Planning
Board believes the character of this area is related to that of the business
district. Alderman Barnes, Planning Board liaison stated support of the
rezoning because it will allow more diversity and consistency. Alderman Poole,
Planning Board liaison acknowledged that the Planning Board did a good job and
suggested a Public Hearing be held in September to receive additional public
input. Alderman Adams concurred. Mayor Howard asked the City Manager to
advertise for a Public Hearing at the September meeting.
   2.   Transportation Planning – Regional Affiliation
   City Manager Thomas briefed the Board on the city’s transportation planning
affiliation and whether or not the city wishes to remain with the rural
planning organization that is staffed by a COG member or to affiliate with one
of the Metropolitan Planning Organizations, Grand Strand (Myrtle Beach) or
Wilmington. He explained that after the 2010 census, boundaries of metropolitan
areas changed and the Federal Highway Administration planning areas for urban
transportation planning. Southport is situated between two Transportation
Management Areas (urbanized with population of 215,000+) Grand Strand and
Wilmington, but not in the boundaries of either. He stated if the Board wishes
to affiliate with one of the Metropolitan Planning Organizations, there is no
guarantee that they will accept the City. Rural Planning Organizations were
created by the State to encourage transportation planning for rural areas, but
receive no State or Federal funding. He stated that the Transportation
Management Areas and Metropolitan Planning Organizations receive direct funding
for planning and construction through the Federal Highway Administration. In
discussion with the Board, he stated Southport and other communities in the
“optional” areas would need to advise the nearby Transportation Metropolitan
Organizations (Grand Strand or Wilmington) whether the City is interested in
joining them. If the urban clusters in the “optional areas” do not express an
interest in becoming a part of a Transportation Metropolitan Area, they will
remain members of the Rural Planning Organization. City Manager Thomas stated
in attending a meeting with the southeastern towns and the Grand Strand MPO,
the towns were leaning towards the Wilmington Metropolitan Planning Area if NC
211, 133 and 87 could be included. If not, they will remain with the Rural
Transportation Planning Organization. Mayor Howard stated the communities
should join together, if not, it might not be feasible. Alderman Powell stated
Southport should make its own decision, and in his opinion; Southport should
lean towards Wilmington because the greater the population, the more money to
be received. City Manager Thomas explained that the TMA is based on the
population from the 2010 census and if Southport is added as an optional area,
they will not get additional funding until the next census. Alderman Barnes
asked if the City joins an MPO, is funding guaranteed. Mr. Thomas stated that
he was advised that any member of the MPO would be given equal consideration.
Alderman Coring encouraged the City to be cautious before making a decision.
Alderman Adams stated that Southport should be a leader and make a decision
based on the best interest of Southport. Mayor Howard stated in this situation,
it is all or none, because they do not have to accept Southport; he wanted to
get input from the Board on what direction to proceed. The Board agreed that
City staff continue to attend meetings, work with other communities and report
to the Board.
   3.   Community Recycling Program – Potential Service Changes
   City Manager Thomas explained that the City currently provides recycling bi-
weekly for $2.20 per month. The current container capacity is eight gallons,
which is too small for some households. He communicated that several towns in
the County have converted to the 96-gallon roll out carts and Waste Industries
has offered to convert recycling in Southport for an additional $1.45 per month
for each residence. The Board agreed to hold a Public Hearing at the September
meeting because there is additional cost and some households do not recycle.
(Possible action to be taken after the hearing)
   4.   Legislative Policy Proposals (NCLM)
   The North Carolina League of Municipalities requested proposals from
municipalities to include in their legislative policy program, which is a guide
that the League uses to advocate in the General Assembly. City Manager Thomas
presented the following for consideration: 1) Legislation to amend G.S. 160A-
299 to allow retention of easement rights other than utility easements if it
elects to close a street. 2) If the League elects not to include the proposed
statutory revision in its advocacy program, the City should seek sponsorship
from its own legislators to amend G.S. 160-299, procedures for permanently
closing streets and alleys. Mr. Thomas explained currently, if a dead end
street is closed, the right of way is divided 50/50 between adjoining property
owners at no cost to them. The general assembly provided for only utility
easements. City Manager Thomas used for an example green space, bike paths, on
closed streets and under the law, the City would not be allowed to keep the
street. The proposal is to request the General Assembly to seek an amendment of
G.S. 160A-299 to allow cities to retain easements other than utility easements
if a street or a portion thereof is closed. Mayor Howard stated there is a need
for greenways and walking trails. The current law gives advantage to property
owners who may be on either side of a public right of way and he supports the
recommendation. Alleys were referenced including the situation on Hankinsville
Road. The Board concurred to add this item to the September agenda .
   Mayor Howard referenced the bill discussed with Senator Rabon to add an
additional two cents occupancy tax to be earmarked for waterfront improvements.
   5.   Waterfront Improvement Plan – Project Development
   City Manager Thomas requested the Board consider a plan of action for
waterfront development and gave each member a copy of a project design for
review. He asked the Board for objectives; formulate a plan, with an approach
for development. The process he presented included public input from a Plan
Advisory Committee, which would be made up of stakeholders with knowledge of
the waterfront while giving the entire community the opportunity to have some
input. Mayor Howard noted that previous plans have been developed, but not
implemented. The Board appropriated $50,000 in this year’s budget for a
waterfront improvement plan, contingent upon a dollar for dollar grant match,
which he said should be announced soon. Mayor Howard appointed a committee
comprised of Aldermen Poole as
Chair, Aldermen Adams, Coring, City Manager and himself to serve on a
Waterfront Committee to develop an implementation plan for the September
meeting.
Alderman Barnes stated that the City should move forward with a plan because of
the waterfront being one of the City’s best economic resources. Alderman Poole
referenced the ecological and erosion concerns. Alderman Karn stated that the
groundwork is needed to develop a final plan for grant review. Alderman Coring
questioned the area for improvements. Mayor Howard acknowledged that no formal
areas were identified, but Kinglsey to the Yacht Basin (including the Bay
Street bank property) will be considered.
   6.   Building Improvements Program – Project Development
   City Manager Thomas in a handout to the Board presented a schematic design
while stating that a structural cost analysis is needed i.e. estimates. He
presented cost estimates performed by Stewart Mulford Cost Estimating.
Estimates were also presented from Clancy & Theys. He stated due to the several
roof lines of the fire/rescue building on Nash Street, it was suggested that
the City might consider some new construction, which would be cheaper than some
of the renovations. Mr. Thomas explained that the cost estimates are
preliminary. (Cost estimates on file with the City Manager) He recommended
proposals be submitted for architectural services, while recognizing the work
of Connie Keller’s design of floor plans. He explained that the City needs
architectural expertise to move forward with the design development and
construction administration. He recommended that the Board tour the buildings
to get a sense of the condition of the facilities and encouraged flexibility
about decisions through the process i.e. adjustments and engineering. City
Manager Thomas recommended request for proposals be submitted for architectural
services i.e. securing financing for the project. The City Hall roof, window
replacements, public restrooms were cited as projects that the City could begin
while securing financing. Mayor Howard appointed Alderman Powell, Chair and
Alderman Adams to work with the City Manager to move the project forward and a
work session scheduled in September.
RECESS: 10:21 – 10:31
   Mayor Howard announced the following:
·   Wooden Boat Show will be staged in Southport for the 3rd year and announced
that the City will work with the Committee to help them have a better show.
·   West Moore Street from Caswell to Yacht Basin will be closed.
·   City will provide barricades and the Committee will not be required to have
police officers at the intersections.
·   Coordinate the delivery of trash containers. In the past, Waste Industries
donated containers.
·   The City will participate in cutting grass around the event area the first
of the week prior to the show.
·   City will provide a water connection in the area of the cook-off and
banquet tent.
·   City will provide electricity and this will be done the same as July 4 and
Spring Festival.
·    Proclamation will be presented at the August meeting with Board
concurrence.
·   Mayor in conclusion asked for objections, comments or questions and stated
by consensus the City will move forward.
·   The City was asked by the Maritime Committee to designate a location for a
maritime monument. Mayor Howard appointed Aldermen Poole, Barnes and Karn  to
work with the City Manager on this and to have a recommendation at the August
meeting or no later than the September meeting.
·   Request for a streetlight at the John N. Smith Cemetery due to vandalism.
Mayor Howard asked the City Manager to look into this with assistance from the
Utility Committee, if needed. Alderman Coring requested Lowe-White Park also be
included for a street light due to vandalism and it being dark in that area.
·   Mayor Howard stated that the property owner has closed Hankinsville Road to
residents. The City has been trying to work with the owner to re-open the road.
The City has graded the road in the past and he wants to insure that staff
knows to continue. It was noted that the City has sewer and utility easements
along Hankinsville. Alderman Powell stated that it is the City’s responsibility
to maintain utility easements and the residents are taxpayers, and he supports
the City continuing to grade the road. Alderman Adams expressed concerns about
the City having legal redress about the road being closed. Alderman Coring
addressed emergencies and the need for egress and ingress. City Manager Thomas
will be given background information on the situation to ascertain what legal
course the City may have.
·   Mayor Howard announced that Mr. Owen Garner’s term will expire on the
     Airport Commission in December and he is seeking reappointment. This item
will be placed on the September agenda. City Manager Thomas questioned if the
Board was    ready to place other appointments back on the agenda. Alderman
Poole asked for additional information, and said she would get this from the
City Manager.
·   Mayor Howard referenced the purchase of the ambulance for the Rescue Squad
that will be placed on the August agenda. He stated the large vehicle will be
surplus and asked that the Rescue Squad receive fair market value. Alderman
Adams stated if the vehicle or equipment is surplus, if placed out for bid
rarely gets fair market value, and if another entity can use it, work out the
best deal. Alderman Coring asked whether another City department should have to
buy the equipment. Mayor Howard stated that the Rescue Squad needs money to
purchase equipment and the money needs to go back into their department and it
is the belief that another department should purchase it and the funds applied
to the capital reserve for equipment. Alderman Coring acknowledged that there
are some issues being discussed and did not realize that this would be on the
agenda for discussion. Mayor Howard asked the City Manager if this issue
becomes a problem, to bring it back to the Board. Alderman Poole acknowledged
that she has had conversation with the City Manager and Mayor about this issue.
·   Mayor Howard told the Board that Alderman Powell suggested selling
mitigation rights to the Sunny Point property and asked Alderman Powell to work
with the City Manager for recommendations.
   7.   Filming Ordinance Review
   City Manager Thomas recommended a Committee be appointed to review the
City’s film Ordinance because a provision in the ordinance requires review
annually. Alderman Powell stated in light of the recent filming (Safe Haven) in
the City, if the ordinance was reviewed as required, some of the complaints
would have been avoided. Mayor Howard agreed that it should be reviewed, but
keep it welcoming for future film productions, while realizing that some of the
citizens experienced unnecessary interruptions. He hopes that methods will be
put in place for better communication and mitigate any problems before they
occur.
   Alderman Powell stated the ordinance was adopted in 1997 and has not been
reviewed as required. However, it does cover every situation where problems
occurred. Mayor Howard appointed Alderman Karn to Chair the Film Committee.
Alderman Barnes volunteered to be on the Committee, i.e. City staff and others
who may be interested.
   Alderman Coring apologized to the public because of not being able to return
some of the telephone calls with complaints, however; he realizes the
importance of responding to citizens. He stated that the production company was
permitted by the City and they operated under the permit. He stated that he
stood by what transpired, but agreed that the Ordinance should be reviewed.
   In conclusion, the Board stated their desire to have workshops more
frequently (quarterly) and thanked the City Manager. Alderman Poole also
thanked the public for their attendance.
ADJOURNMENT – 11:00
   Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Powell to adjourn the meeting.
Vote of approval was unanimous.
                     ________________________________
                     Mayor
_______________________________
Clerk
AUGUST 9, 2012
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN            REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
AUGUST 9, 2012               6:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS, CITY HALL SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Buddy Barnes, Nelson Adams, Jim Powell and
Ken Karn
ABSENT:      Alderman Todd Coring (Raleigh)
STAFF PRESENT:   Pat Thomas, City Manager
         Regina W. Alexander, MMC-City Clerk
         Jim Philyaw, Director of Finance
         Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
         Jerry Dove, Police Chief
         Robert Tucker, Director Public Services
I.   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
   Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:03 p.m.
II.   Invocation
   Alderman Adams welcomed everyone and Chief Dove pronounced the invocation.
   ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Howard asked, “if any member of the Board knows of
any conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with
respect to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
III.   Consent Agenda
   Alderman Powell moved to approve the consent agenda, seconded by Alderman
Karn. The vote of approval was unanimous.
      1) July 12, 2012 minutes approved
       2) EMS Franchise Renewal, approved
       3) Proclamation – Wooden Boat Show, adopted
   Proclamation read by Alderman Poole and presented to members of the Wooden
Boat Show Committee.
PROCLAMATION
WHEREAS, the City of Southport has been a major fishing village and a center
for recreational boating since being chartered as Smithville in 1792; and
WHEREAS, the Southport Wooden Boat Show is a celebration of our heritage and
community pride bringing people of all ages together for festivities from the
Greater Southport area and throughout the Southeastern United States; and
WHEREAS, Southport and Brunswick County were home to many wooden boat builders
which provided employment and revenue to their communities, and which created
boats many of which endure today; and
WHEREAS, Downtown Southport, Inc. and the SWBS Committee will host the 3rd
annual Southport Wooden Boat Show at the Old Yacht Basin in Southport on
Saturday, September 29, 2012
WHEREAS, boats will be displayed in and around the historic Old Yacht Basin;
and
WHEREAS, visitors can meet and talk with wooden boat builders and owners.
NOW THEREFORE, I, Robert D. Howard, Mayor of the City of Southport and on
behalf of the Southport Board of Aldermen do hereby proclaim Saturday,
September 29, 2012 as
SOUTHPORT WOODEN BOAT DAY
in Southport, North Carolina.
S/Robert D. Howard, Mayor
IV.   Approval of the Agenda
   Alderman Karn moved to approve the agenda, seconded by Alderman Barnes. Vote
unanimous.
V.   Public Comments (three minutes)
   Ms. Linda Pukenas, owner and operator of the Robert Ruark Inn addressed the
Board in reference to Tourism, while noting Brunswick County is rated #10 for
tourism in North Carolina and trending at an increase of 11% from 2011-2012.
She stated that Southport is a leading tourism destination in Brunswick County,
which is supported by a 3% occupancy tax. Ms. Pukenas encouraged the Board to
promote a strong and vibrant tourism department.
   Ms. Pamela Sexton, owner of Cattail Cottage spoke in support of tourism and
the need to promote the industry. She encouraged the Board to support the
business community because it appears that the City is trying to curtail
efforts of the tourism department, which will inevitably affect businesses as
well as the City.
   Mayor Howard asked the City Manager to respond with a press release because
the City has increased the tourism budget and he offered assurances that the
City is pro-business.
VI.   Departmental Reports (included in agenda packet)
VII.   Old Business
   None
VIII.   New Business
   1) Budget Amendments – Ambulance and Police Vehicle Financing
   City Manager Thomas presented two resolutions for the financing terms and
asked the Board to adopt an ordinance amending the FY 2012-2013 budget to
reflect the estimated revenues and expenditures for the purchase of the
ambulance and two police cars.
   Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Barnes to approve the budget
amendment amending FY 2012-13 budget to accept revenues (loan proceeds) and
capital outlay appropriation to purchase the rescue squad ambulance and two
police vehicles. Vote unanimous.
   2) Approval of Purchase – Ambulance for Rescue Squad
   Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Powell to adopt the resolution
authorizing the waiver of bid procedures and to purchase a type III ambulance
unit pursuant to G.S. 143-129(g) and the resolutions approving financing terms.
The vote was unanimous. (Resolutions incorporated as Attachment #1)
   3) Resolution – Surplus Property Disposition
   City Manager Thomas presented a resolution prescribing procedures for
disposal of surplus property. He explained that State law allows cities to use
an administrative process to dispose of items by private sale that can be
handled locally or by the use of online sites such as govdeals.com. Items of
higher value will be disposed of by sealed bids or auctions, and those items
valued $10,000 or higher will be reported to the Board. Alderman Karn moved to
adopt the resolution, seconded by Alderman Powell.  Discussion: Alderman Adams
asked about the status of the case backhoe and the cost to re-furbish. Mr.
Tucker stated the backhoe is in poor condition, and has been stripped of parts
to use on other equipment. Due to the age and condition, he does not believe
that it is a worthy venture to repair. The vote of approval was unanimous.
A RESOLUTION PRESCRIBING PROCEDURES
FOR DISPOSAL OF SURPLUS PERSONAL PROPERTY
   WHEREAS North Carolina General Statute 160A-266(a) and (b) authorizes cities
to dispose of personal property valued at less than $30,000 for any one item or
group of similar items by private negotiation and sale; and
   WHEREAS North Carolina General Statute 160A-266(c) provides that a city
governing board may adopt regulations prescribing procedures for disposing of
personal property valued at less than $30,000 for any one item or group of
similar items, provided that such regulations are designed to secure for the
city the fair market value of the property and accomplish the disposal
efficiently and effectively; and
   WHEREAS NCGS 160A-266(c) further provides that the governing board may
authorize one or more city officials to declare surplus any personal property
valued at less than $30,000, to set its fair market value, and to convey title
to the property for the city, provided that such official shall maintain proper
records of such transactions; and
   WHEREAS NCGS 160A-266(d) allows cities to discard any personal property that
is determined to have no value, that remains unsold or unclaimed after the city
has exhausted efforts to sell the property, or that poses a potential threat to
public health or safety;
WHEREAS the City of Southport has, from time to time, personal property for
which it no longer has a need and considers to be surplus, as well as personal
property that has been determined to have no value, that remains unsold or
unclaimed after sale efforts, or that may pose a threat to public health or
safety;
BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport as follows:
1. The city manager is authorized to declare surplus any personal property
valued at less than $30,000 for any one item or group of similar items, to set
its fair market value, and to convey title to the property for the city, by
public or private sale or exchanges. Surplus property is (a) property that is
no longer needed for the conduct of City business and/or (b) property whose
disposal would, based on sound property management principles and financial
considerations, be in the best interests of the City.
2. Prior to disposition of any individual item of property valued at more than
$10,000, the city manager shall report such proposed disposal to the Board of
Aldermen.
3. The city manager may employ any method or methods that he/she considers to
be the most appropriate, effective means of soliciting fair market offers for
the surplus personal property, and that will accomplish the disposal
efficiently and economically. Such methods may include on-line, electronic
listings or auctions of property.
4. The surplus property shall be sold to the party who tenders the highest
offer or shall be exchanged for any property or services useful to the City, if
greater value may be obtained in that manner.
5. The city manager shall maintain or cause to be maintained proper records of
such transactions, including a general description of the property, the name of
the person to whom it was sold or with whom it was exchanged, and the amount of
money or other consideration received.
6. If no offers are received within a reasonable time, the city manager may
retain the property for the City, may obtain any reasonably available salvage
value, or may cause the property to be disposed of as waste material.
7. The city manager may approve the discarding of any personal property that is
determined to have no value, that remains unsold or unclaimed after the city
has exhausted efforts to sell the property, or that poses a potential threat to
public health or safety;
8. This policy shall become effective upon its adoption.
   Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, August 9,
2012.
                                           S/Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:
S/Regina Alexander, City Clerk
IX.   Other Business
   1) Emergency Services Committee – Alderman Poole reported on the meeting of
the
Emergency Services Committee held July 17, 2012.
·   Cardiac Monitor will be delivered the week of July 23.
·   Task Force members from the Rescue and Fire Department to be named by the
Chiefs and provided to the City Manager to explore the feasibility of
transferring extrication equipment to the fire department
·    Sale of equipment – Fire Department has interest in the equipment and some
to be used for the Fire Prevention Unit
·    Non- traditional grants discussed
·    Update of matrix for responsibilities
·    Viper Radio System has flaws and letter sent to the County identifying
concerns. A reply was received from the County Manager and these concerns will
be discussed.
   2) Transportation Committee – Alderman Powell reported that the
Transportation Committee would submit a written report to the Board.
   3) Community Building – Alderman Barnes commented on the amount of revenue
generated by rental of the Community Center.
   4)  Parks & Recreation – Alderman Adams asked about the status of
negotiations for the proposed ball fields to be located near the old Steven’s
Park Property where the City owns seven acres. City Manager Thomas informed the
Board of a meeting with representatives from the Brunswick County School System
who proposed to collaborate with the City on this project if there could be
joint use of the property. He stated that a new property owner has taken over
the property that surrounds the seven-acre park site and they have indicated
that they may wish to talk to the City about plans, but they are in the process
of finalizing their acquisition, and this may not occur immediately. Mayor
Howard stated that there is a 60-foot right of way, which runs down the middle
of the City property, which prohibits it from being contiguous. The property
could be better utilized if this divide did not exist, which creates two
different parcels of land. Alderman Adams stated if any area of the property
could be developed as a ball field, then it should be because this was a
mandate of the community. Heather Hemphill, Director of Parks and Recreation
stated the property would better serve the City if it was contiguous, but it
can work to accommodate two ball fields.
   5)   Beautification Committee - Alderman Karn referenced a report from the
Beautification Committee (July) concerning the intersection at Bay and Howe
Streets (dumpster) and Fodale Avenue. City Manager Thomas acknowledged that he
met with the property owners concerning Bay and Howe and a proposal will be
forthcoming. Alderman Barnes stated that the Beautification Committee
recommends that the City look at the Fodale situation and come up with a plan.
X.   Manager Comments
   City Manager Thomas recognized James Trey Burke, a non-paid summer intern
graduate student in Public Administration at Mississippi State University. He
highlighted some of the assignments/projects assigned and completed by Mr.
Burke and expressed appreciation from the City.
   The Board and staff invited to business networking at Wingate Inn, Thursday,
August 16, 5:30 p.m.
The North Carolina League of Municipalities Conference will convene in
Charlotte, N. C. on October 21-23 and Board members were encouraged to attend.
   Mr. Thomas informed the Board that a resolution was sent to the Department
of Transportation in October 2011 requesting sidewalks be included as a part of
the proposed widening of N. C. Highway 211. He communicated that pedestrian
sidewalks can be provided as part of the project if the City agrees in writing
to fund the additional right of way required, participate in construction cost,
and agrees to maintain and accept liability for the sidewalks. The proposed
project includes a four foot paved shoulder design, which can accommodate
bicycles. The estimated construction cost to build sidewalks on both sides of
NC 211 between the westernmost driveway of Wal-Mart and NC 87 is $128,720,
making Southport’s share $25,744. He explained that adding this to the cost of
right of way could result in several million dollars as stated by DOT. The City
has been asked to respond by September 28. City Manager Thomas suggested that
if there is a portion of the highway that has sufficient right of way, the City
might be interested in participating in construction, which would be 20%.
Alderman Adams questioned the number of feet involved before taking a position.
Mayor Howard asked that the Board review this matter and it be placed on the
September agenda.
   City Manager Thomas reported that City property located at the end of Bay
and Atlantic Streets (pocket park) has been encroached upon from adjoining
construction activity, and the property has been surveyed to determine City
property lines. He requested Board input concerning the encroachment.
   Mayor Howard suggested accommodating the property owner while his house is
under construction as long as it does not endanger or hamper public use.
Alderman Barnes agreed,
however, if the lawn is destroyed due to construction material, the City
request that it be replaced. Alderman Adams suggested a safety barrier be
erected around the building material due to liability issues; however, he
agreed that the City should work with the homeowner. Alderman Karn stated it is
his belief that if the homeowner wished to use City property, it would have
possibly been permitted, but to use the property without prior approval is
abuse. If the City does nothing, this park may inevitably be abused and a fence
should be erected. Alderman Powell stated that prior approval should have been
requested from the City. Alderman Powell stated since the property is being
used, it may be appropriate to have the homeowner sign a hold harmless
agreement. Mayor Howard used as an example, parking vehicles on City right of
way and other citizens using City property without a hold harmless agreement,
and he does not have a problem with letting the homeowner use the property. No
formal action taken by the Board.
XI.   Board Comments
   Alderman Karn announced that a public meeting with be held about film
activities in Southport and the date would be announced.
   Alderman Poole announced that the Fort Johnston tennis courts would be
renovated by the end of August. Southport Beat is scheduled August 17 from 5-
8 p.m.
XII.   Adjournment – 7:15 p.m.
   Meeting adjourned upon motion of Alderman Poole, seconded by Alderman
Barnes, vote carried.
                     _________________________________
                     Mayor
________________________________
Clerk
SEPTEMBER 13, 2012
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN            REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
SEPTEMBER 13, 2012           6:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS, CITY HALL SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole
          Buddy Barnes
          Todd Coring
          Jim Powell
          Ken Karn
ABSENT:      Alderman Nelson Adams
STAFF PRESENT:   Pat Thomas, City Manager
         Regina W. Alexander, MMC-City Clerk
         Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
         Jim Philyaw, Director of Finance
         Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
         Jerry Dove, Police Chief
         Robert Tucker, Director Public Services
I.   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
   Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:02 p.m.
II.   Invocation – Alderman Barnes
   Alderman Barnes welcomed everyone and asked for a moment of silence in honor
of 9/11 and for family members of the Americans killed in Libya. Chief Dove
pronounced the invocation.
III.   Presentations and Recognitions
   Regina Alexander, City Clerk, was recognized by Mayor Howard and the Board
for receiving the designation of North Carolina State Certified Municipal Clerk
from the School of Government and the North Carolina Association of Municipal
Clerks.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Howard stated, “if any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
IV.   Consent Agenda (approval recommended)
   Alderman Powell moved to approve the consent agenda, seconded by Alderman
Poole, vote of approval was unanimous.
   A. August 2, 2012, special meeting minutes and   August 9, 2012, regular
meeting minutes , approved
   B. Scattered Site Housing Program Participation, approved
    C. Water Storage Capacity Agreement, approved.
    D. Final Plat, Cades Cove Section 2 Phase 6, approved
   E. Fourth of July Festival funding request of $1,000 approved from the
Board’s donation line item in the budget FY 2012-2013, approved
   F. Proclamation of Support in Honor of the 2012 Warrior Ride, approved.
V.    Approval of Agenda
   Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Barnes to approve the agenda,
vote of approval was unanimous.
VI   Public Comments
   The following persons spoke in support of recycling.
   Ms. Vickie Mathews, 104 River Watch.
   Ms. Marianne Huntley, 311 East Nash Street.
   Ms. Martha Johnson, 227 E. 11th Street
   Mr. Chad Huggins, 211 Yaupon Drive
   Ms. Michele Spencer, 818 Cape Harbor Drive, representing a group of 20
members of Sustainable Southport stated their support of recycling.
   Mrs. Cheryl Daniels, 120 West Bay Street stated her support of recycling.
She also spoke in support of the Maritime Memorial being placed on the grounds
at Fort Johnston. She stated that the location will allow tourists and visitors
alike to shop in the downtown area, the location will not interfere with
existing activities or historical elements, the site maximizes the dignity
needed for honoring those who wrote Southport’s history and it will be visible
and not hidden from public view. In closing, she complimented the professional
analysis performed by the City Manager and staff.
   Mayor Howard appointed Alderman Poole, as the Board’s liaison to the
Maritime Memorial Committee.
VII.   Committee Reports
   Building Improvement Committee: Alderman Powell reported the committee met
and interviewed architects for the City building renovation project and will
submit a recommendation.
   Transportation Committee: Alderman Powell reported that the Transportation
Committee recommended the City of Southport petition to join the Wilmington
Area Metropolitan Planning Organization.
   Beautification Committee:   Alderman Barnes reading from the September 2012
report of the Beautification Committee presented the following:
      ·    The new chair of the Beautification Committee: Gloria Jones, Mary
Friend, Vice Chair and Roy Pender, secretary.
      ·    The Committee is waiting to receive word from the City as to how the
SBC can assist with sidewalks.
      ·    Franklin Square Park – the Aldermen asked the SBC to pursue, review
and recommend a way to remove the large public events from the park which are
damaging the live oaks by finding alternate sites. (At this time, the Parks &
Recreation Advisory Board has recommended tabling any further action until they
come up with options.) SBC is ready to proceed when the time is appropriate.
      ·    Keziah Park Entrance Lights - Question raised when the lights will
be installed. Alderman Barnes noted that this is funded in FY-12-13 budget.
      ·    Fire Station – SBC will work with the fire station and Chief Cumbee
to guide the firemen with site maintenance.
   Alderman Barnes reviewed further the recommendation by the SBC dated October
4, 2011. “ Review of Situation  – Franklin Square is being destroyed by the
very activities which are attracted to it. The numerous events which create a
fairground atmosphere with tents, vendors, and masses of visitors have stressed
the Live Oaks and other trees, shrubs and what little grass is left by
compacting the soil, badly damaging the tree roots, and in general, trampling
the park. After meeting with Alderman Potter and Heather Hemphill, Director of
Southport Parks and Recreation, it was determined that immediate action needs
to be taken to relocate the large events to another location in Southport.”
   RECOMMENDATIONS:
   a.   SOLUTION - The solution is twofold.
      ·   Immediate actions need to be taken to relocate the large events to
another location in Southport.
      ·   The park needs to be brought back to its use as a quiet retreat
during the large events, and a park for smaller events such as musical
performances, plays, movies, weddings, and to be used by individuals and
families.
   b.   EXECUTION - Execution is twofold
      ·   Determine which new location is best. Two options are across the
sidewalk and around the Franklin Square Gallery or down on Bay Street between
Atlantic and Howe Streets, along with Waterfront Park, and even carefully on
the Garrison lawn. People come to Southport because of the waterfront. Utilize
it to its fullest potential.
      ·   Develop a plan for Franklin Square utilizing the band shell and
benches, re-establish the original walks, emphasize the natural beauty, add
azaleas and camellias where needed, create a plan to protect and preserve the
live oaks. Emphasize small gatherings and events, individual visitors and
families.
   c.   SUPPORT-    The Town of Southport needs to have the Parks and
Recreation Department determine what must be done to accomplish this. Then each
event organizer must be contacted and explained why the location of their event
has changed.
   d.   OTHERS TO INVOLVE- Other groups and organizations to involve which can
assist and direct this are Southport Tourism and Economic Development, Downtown
Southport Inc., Southport Forestry Committee and Southport Beautification
Committee
   Alderman Karn stated the Fourth of July Committee or the Kiwanis Club was
not mentioned and when this was discussed, these organizations were to be
contacted. He stated in his experience working with the Fourth of July
Committee, that they will be resistant, and possibly present a significant road
block, however; he understand their concerns. He stated that someone needs to
talk with the Fourth of July Committee and the Kiwanis Club. Alderman Barnes
noted that the Southport Beautification Committee is an advisory committee and
not authorized to contact the representatives of these organizations. The
Beautification Committee is making a recommendation to the Aldermen on where
and how to proceed. The Board of Aldermen has to decide what to do to preserve
the park; he presented the report as the liaison to the Beautification
Committee.
   Film & Ordinance Committee: Alderman Karn noted that his report is a part of
the agenda packet, however he noted that the Committee met on August 21, 2012
and the public hearing held on September 4. The Committee heard both sides of
the issue and received constructive feedback.
   Utility Committee: Alderman Powell stated the Committee met September 12,
and discussed capital projects i.e. paving and resurfacing various streets
within the city, odor control of the sewer system, drainage at corner of
Atlantic and West Moore and Willis Streets. The State will be contacted for
assistance.
VIII. Department Reports (included in agenda packet)
IX.   Old Business
   None
X.   New Business
   A. North Howe Street Rezoning
        1. Public Hearing on the proposed rezoning of North Howe Street between
12th and 1427/1430 N. Howe be changed in zoning from Highway Commercial (HC) to
Business District (BD)
   Alderman Coring moved to enter Public Hearing, seconded by Alderman Karn.
Vote carried.There were no public comments. Alderman Powell moved, seconded by
Alderman Barnes to close the Public Hearing. Vote carried.
      2. Action on Rezoning Request – Adoption of Ordinance
   Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Barnes to adopt the Ordinance
changing the zoning designation of North Howe as proposed. Vote was unanimous.
      AN ORDINANCE REZONING 39 PARCELS IN THE N. HOWE STREET AREA
FROM HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL (HC) to BUSINESS DISTRICT (BD)
WHEREAS North Carolina General Statute 160A-383 requires that zoning
regulations shall be made in accordance with a comprehensive plan; and
WHEREAS NCGS 160A-383 requires that, when adopting or rejecting any zoning
amendment, the governing board shall approve a statement describing whether its
action is consistent with an adopted comprehensive plan and any other
officially adopted plan that is applicable, and briefly explain why the board
considers the action taken to be reasonable and in the public interest; and
WHEREAS the Planning Board recommended at its May 17, 2012, meeting that the
zoning classification of a 39-lot area along both sides of Howe Street between
Twelfth Street and 1427/1430 N. Howe Street should be changed from Highway
Commercial (HC) to Business District (BD); and
WHEREAS the Planning Board conducted on July 19 a public meeting, with notice
to affected property owners, regarding the proposed rezoning in order to
provide information and solicit comments regarding the proposed rezoning; and
WHEREAS a public hearing on the proposed zoning has been conducted on the
proposed zoning changes, after published notice and mailed notice to property
owners as required by law; and
WHEREAS the proposed rezoning is partially consistent with the City’s CAMA Core
Land Use Plan (2007), which projects future Heavy Commercial, Office &
Institutional, and Multi-Family use of the affected area; and
WHEREAS the Board of Aldermen find the proposed rezoning to be reasonable and
in the public interest because the character of the area is more closely
related to that of the Business District (BD) than to the Highway Commercial
district and the dimensional requirements of the Business District will allow
greater utilization of lot areas;
      NOW, THERFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Southport:
Section 1. The Official Zoning Map of the City of Southport, an element of the
Unified Development Ordinance of the City, is amended by changing the zoning
classification of the below-described properties, as well as the immediately
abutting street rights-of-way areas, from Highway Commercial (HC) to Business
District (BD).
Thirty-nine parcels along the east and west sides of the Howe Street from 12th
Street north to 1427/1430 North Howe Street identified by the following
Brunswick County property numbers, and as shown on Attachment A, “Howe Street
Rezoning”:
Properties along the East side of Howe Street:
   221MB02302, 221MB02301, 221MB023, 221MB02201, 221MB022, 221MB021, 221MB020,
221MB019, 221MB01902, 221MB018, 221MB01702, 221MB01701, 221MB017, 221MB01601,
221MB016, 221MB015, 221MB014, 221MB013, and
Properties along the West side of Howe Street:
   221MA032, 221MA03202, 221MA03201, 221MA03101,221MA031, 221MA030, 221MA00101,
221MA00110, 221MA00104, 221MA028, 221MA02801, 221MA02701, 221MA027, 221MA026,
221MA02601, 221MA025, 221MA024, 221MA023, 221MA022, 221MA021, 221MA020.   
Section 2. This ordinance shall be effective upon its adoption, and the
Official Zoning Map of the City of Southport shall be revised accordingly.
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, September 13,
2012.
                     /s/Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina Alexander, City Clerk
   B. Recycling Program Improvement
   Alderman Karn moved to adopt the recycling program to provide a 96-gallon
roll out container to residents and increase the City’s monthly charge for
solid waste collection for recycling and vegetative waste from $7.50 per month
to $8.95 per month effective the month of change, and to authorize execution of
necessary amendment to the City’s contract with Waste Industries. Motion
seconded by Alderman Poole, and the vote was unanimous.
   C. Pedestrian Plan Development
    1. Approval of Municipal Reimbursement Agreement
   The City Manager stated Southport was awarded an 80% grant from the NC
Department of Transportation Bicycle and Pedestrian Planning Initiative for a
$31,000 project to prepare a Comprehensive Pedestrian Transportation Plan for
Southport. Application for the grant was approved by the Board of Aldermen on
October 13, 2011. The grant amount is $24,800, and the local share is $6,200.
   In order to proceed with the planning project, the City must execute the
Municipal Reimbursement Agreement for the grant funds, adopt a budget amendment
to appropriate the grant funds and local share, select a qualified planning
consultant for the project, and establish
a steering committee to assist in development of the plan.
   The Request for Qualifications (RFQ) for a planning consultant has been
prepared and sent to eleven (11) pre-qualified firms, following approval by the
NCDOT project administrator.
      Alderman Coring motioned to approve the Municipal Reimbursement Agreement
with the North Carolina Department of Transportation for the Comprehensive
Pedestrian Transportation Plan project and adopt the budget amendment to
establish the grant project, seconded by Alderman Powell, vote unanimous.
BUDGET AMENDMENT #2
FISCAL 2012-2013 BUDGET ORDINANCE
   WHEREAS the North Carolina Department of Transportation has awarded the City
of Southport a grant in the amount of $24,800 to fund 80 percent of the cost of
preparing the Pedestrian Plan; and
   WHEREAS the Board of Aldermen has approved a municipal agreement accepting
the grant from the North Carolina Department of Transportation; and
   WHEREAS a budget ordinance is needed to reflect the revenues and
expenditures needed to carry out the project; and
   WHEREAS North Carolina General Statute 159-13.2 authorizes the adoption of
project budget ordinances for grant projects, which ordinances continue for the
life of the project;
   BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina:
Section 1. A grant project ordinance for the Pedestrian Transportation Plan,
which shall be accounted for in a separate fund, is created, with the following
estimated revenues and anticipated expenditures:
Revenues                           Approved Amount
NCDOT Bicycle and Pedestrian Grant                   $24,800      
Transfer from General Fund                         6,200      
                               $31,000
Appropriations
Pedestrian Plan Preparation                            $31,000
Section 2. The Budget Ordinance for the FY 2012-2013 fiscal year is amended as
follows, in order to transfer $6,200 from the General Fund to the Pedestrian
Transportation Plan Fund to provide the local matching share for the pedestrian
plan project:
               Previous Amount      Increase      Amended Amount
Revenues
Appropriated Fund Balance      $50,400         $ 6,200         $56,600   
Appropriations
Non-Departmental          $418,200      $ 6,200         $424,400
Section 3. This ordinance shall be effective upon its adoption.
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, September 13,
2012.
                                             /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:
s/ Regina Alexander, City Clerk
   Pedestrian Plan Steering Committee:
   Mayor Howard appointed the following persons to the Pedestrian
Transportation Plan Steering Committee.
Citizens:  Beatrice Flythe, Gretchen Frame, Linnie LaPorta, Leslie Reschly,
Randy Horne, Ralph Parker
Public Official:  Nelson Adams
Staff:          J.V. Dove, Robert Tucker, Cindy Brochure
Project Managers: Jerry Haire and Patrick Thomas
   D. Waste Container Placement License
        1. License Approval
   City Manager Thomas informed the Board of complaints related to a dumpster
in the City right of way on the north side of Bay Street which is used by a
restaurant and motel, but is in a highly visible location adjacent to
pedestrian routes that could serve as parking.
   The City Code (Section 16-8) prohibits creation of hazardous conditions and
safety hazards that interfere with persons or vehicle passage in rights-of-way,
as well as the obstruction of “lawful parking” within the public right-of-way.
This provision does not necessarily limit the City in designating which
portions of the right-of-way are available for parking and which portions will
be used for other purposes (such as sidewalks, drainage, signs, landscaping,
utilities, or other purposes).
   Discussions were held with the property owners and the dumpster (a) had been
placed in at least two locations in the past, which also proved to be
undesirable. (b) There were no reasonable and desirable locations for placement
of the dumpster on private property, and (c) the only potential location for
the dumpster that would likely be less objectionable, is on municipal right-of-
way in another location. The property owners agreed that they would be willing
to properly enclose the dumpster if the City permitted the dumpster to be
placed in that location which is on the west side of the motel in the corner of
the area near the pilot’s tower. Manager Thomas recommended the following:
1)       Amend Section 16-8 of the City Code to allow approval of right-of-way
use licenses.
2)       Approval of a license (in writing) to place the dumpster in the
selected location, provided that an enclosure for the dumpster is constructed
in accordance with requirements specified by the City.
3)       The adoption of a policy that would establish a framework for
consideration of similar situations in the future.
   Alderman Barnes questioned the proposed location of placing the dumpster in
front of another person’s property. Mr. Thomas stated that it is unoccupied
residential property which is on city right of way, but would eliminate a
parking space.
1) Amendment to Section 16-8 of the City Code.
   Mayor Howard asked for comments on the proposed amendment to the City
Ordinance and asked that the words “or as authorized by a license issued by the
Board of Aldermen”  be included.
   Alderman Powell moved to amend Section 16-8 of the City Code, Obstruction of
public rights of way and add in subsection “b” “or as authorized by a license
issued by the Board of Aldermen.” The motion died for the lack of a second.
   Alderman Karn stated that it is the responsibility of the property owner to
place dumpsters in a place that is out of public right of way and he does not
believe that the Board should set a precedent in helping businesses solve their
problems.
   Mayor Howard stated that the City should assist businesses and he requested
the City Manager and staff look at this situation with property owners to
determine if there was a suitable location on private property that would
accommodate the dumpster. He acknowledged his support of the recommendation and
stated only the Board of Aldermen can allow an exception.
   In answer to a question posed by Alderman Karn, City Manager Thomas
acknowledged that he looked at other areas along Bay Street, which is needed
parking. The area at the end of the motel, which was used in the past resulted
in an undesirable situation with customers being in close proximity to the
dumpster. The area at the east of the restaurant places the dumpster in the
water view, and will take up parking. He looked for the least objectionable
location. Alderman Powell noted that the location was changed because of large
trucks needing access to dump the container.
   Alderman Coring stated that people live across the street and questioned the
proposed location and if the tenants had been contacted. He also noted that the
current dumpster has an impact on the live oak tree. Alderman Barnes stated his
support of wanting to help businesses, but taking a dumpster from someone’s
property to place it in front of another’s property would be setting a
precedent, and questioned why it cannot be placed in front of the motel in an
enclosure where it was previously. Mayor Howard asked if the Board wished to
take further action on this matter.
   Alderman Karn suggested staff look for an alternative location. City Manager
Thomas stated parking spaces are on city right of way and permission will be
required from the city.
   Attorney Isenberg stated in order to grant a license, the right of way use
policy and amendment to Section 16-8 should be adopted. If adopted, this does
not require the Board to grant a license.
Alderman Powell restated the motion to amend Section 16-8 of the City Code and
to adopt the right of way licensing policy, motion seconded by Alderman Barnes.
The votes were 2 ayes, Aldermen Powell, Barnes and 3 nays, Aldermen Karn,
Coring and Poole. Motion failed.
   E. Maritime Memorial Location
   Alderman Poole reported on the meeting held September 14 with Maritime
Memorial Committee consisting of Aldermen Poole, Barnes, Karn and City Manager
Thomas concerning the location of the proposed maritime memorial. Attending the
meeting was Heather Hemphill, Director of Parks and Recreation, Paul Fisher,
Downtown Southport Inc., liaison and members of the Maritime Memorial Steering
Committee. Presented by the City Manager was an evaluation of various options
for sites. The Committee made a unanimous decision to recommend to the Board of
Aldermen the use of Fort Johnston Garrison House lawn south. Alderman Poole
motioned, seconded by Barnes to hold a special meeting with public hearing
within 10 days for the specific purpose of discussing the location of the
maritime memorial. Vote unanimous.
   F. Regional Transportation Planning Affiliation
   City Manager Thomas explained that following the 2010 census, the Federal
Highway Administration’s planning areas for urban transportation planning have
changed. Southport now lies between two Transportation Management Areas
(urbanized areas with populations of 215,000+), but not actually within the
boundaries of either. Instead, Southport and its adjoining communities are in
an area called an “urban cluster” that could potentially be included in one of
these TMAs by mutual consent of the transportation planning organization and
the affected community. The TMA that is closest to Southport includes
Wilmington and the rest of New Hanover County, the Leland-Belville-Navassa
area, and southern Pender County.
   Southport and a number of other small communities in Brunswick County are
currently members of a Rural Planning Organization (RPO) for transportation
that is coordinated by the Cape Fear Council of Governments. RPOs were created
by the State to encourage transportation planning for rural areas, but receive
limited state funding (about $100,000 in the Pender-Brunswick-Columbus region).
Transportation Management Areas receive significantly greater funding for both
planning and construction through the Federal Highway Administration. The
Wilmington Transportation Management Area is expected to receive a major boost
in funding – to about $3 million per year – after being upgraded from an MPO to
a TMA.
   Southport and other communities in the southeastern Brunswick urban cluster
will need to advise the Wilmington TMA whether they desire to be included in
the TMA or remain within the RPO. If affiliation with the TMA is desired, the
TMA would decide whether to accept the community. If the urban clusters in the
“optional areas” do not express an interest in becoming part of a TMA and/or
are not accepted, they would remain members of the Rural Planning Organization.
   At the August 6 meeting, the Southport Traffic and Transportation Committee
recommended that the City pursue potential affiliation with the Wilmington TMA.
   Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to adopt the succeeding
resolution to pursue participation in the Wilmington Metropolitan Planning
Organization (soon to be designated the Wilmington Transportation Management
Area), provided that NC 133 and NC 87 are included in the planning area
boundary. Vote unanimous.
A RESOLUTION SUPPORTING PARTICIPATION
IN THE WILMINGTON TRANSPORTATION MANAGEMENT AREA
WHEREAS the Federal Highway Administration designates urban transportation
planning areas and provides significant funding to support transportation
planning within those areas; and
WHEREAS the 2010 Census will result in the Wilmington Metropolitan Planning
Organization being upgraded to a Transportation Management Area and will
significantly increase its resources; and
WHEREAS Southport and several other southeastern Brunswick County
municipalities are located within an “urban cluster” that lies in very close
proximity to the boundaries of the Wilmington Transportation Management Area;
and
WHEREAS Southport and its neighboring municipalities have close economic,
cultural, and transportation connections to the Wilmington area; and
WHEREAS the Wilmington Transportation Management Area must resolve, in the near
future, the boundaries of its planning area; and
WHEREAS the Southport Traffic and Transportation Committee has recommended that
the City of Southport pursue inclusion in the Wilmington Transportation
Management Area; and
WHEREAS participation in the Wilmington Transportation Management Area is
appropriate only if the two principal transportation arteries – NC 87 and NC
133 – that connect southeastern Brunswick County to the Wilmington area are
included within the planning area;
BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport that the City
should request inclusion and appropriate representation in the Wilmington
Transportation Management Area, provided that the boundary of the
transportation planning area includes NC 87 and NC 133.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the City of Southport invites and encourages the
City of Boiling Spring Lakes, the Town of Oak Island, the Town of Caswell
Beach, the Village of St. James, and the Village of Bald Head Island to join
Southport in requesting affiliation with the Wilmington Transportation
Management Area.
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, September 13,
2012.
                                             s/Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:
s/Regina Alexander, City Clerk
   Mayor Howard called for a five- minute recess at 7:23 p.m., meeting
reconvened at 7:30 p.m.
   G. Appointments
        1. Forestry Committee
   Alderman Karn motioned, seconded by Alderman Coring to appoint Theresa
Huggins, and reappoint Clay Fairley and Beverly Wyckoff to the Forestry
Committee, vote unanimous.
      2. Zoning Board of Adjustment
   Alderman Poole motioned to reappoint Larry Coble, James Kefalonitis,
Jennifer Fontaine, Chris Maynor (ETJ), Joe Pat Hatem (ETJ), and to appoint
Frank Popelars (ETJ Alternate) and Melissa Hinnant. Motion seconded by Alderman
Barnes, vote unanimous.
   Note: ETJ appointments subject to approval by the County Commissioners   
RESOLUTION OF SOUTHPORT BOARD OF ALDERMEN
REQUESTING BRUNSWICK COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS TO APPOINT AN
EXTRATERRITORIAL MEMBER TO THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT PURSUANT
TO G.S. 160A-362
WHEREAS, the terms of two extraterritorial members and one extraterritorial
alternate position of the City of Southport Board of Adjustment have expired;
and
WHEREAS, two members who have been serving in said capacity desires to be
reappointed and one new member appointed; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen desires that the Brunswick County Board of
Commissioners reappoint/appoint said extraterritorial members as expeditiously
as possible in order to assure the efficient functioning of said Board;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT HEREBY RESOLVED, that the City of Southport Board of
Aldermen hereby request that the Brunswick County Board of Commissioners
reappoint Mr. Chris Maynor and Dr. Joe Pat Hatem, and to appoint Frank Popelars
as the extraterritorial alternate to the Board of Adjustment for the City of
Southport as expeditiously as possible.
ADOPTED, this the13th day of September 2012.
                     s/Robert D. Howard
                     Mayor
Attest:
s/Regina W. Alexander
City Clerk
                3. Planning Board ETJ Alternate
           No applicants applied.
   H. Architect Selection for City Building Renovation
   Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to accept the
recommendation of the Building Committee to hire John Thompson Architectural
Firm to evaluate the Nash Street Complex building(s) including Code Enforcement
to determine the feasibility of utilization for the intended use, and that the
Committee be authorized to complete the process, bring a recommendation back to
the Board with regards to the use of the existing facilities or the replacement
thereof. Discussion: Alderman Barnes questioned the basis for the
recommendation. Mr. Powell cited experience, qualifications and the work that
he has done in the past, i.e. construction of the Southport Community Building
and currently Brunswick Community College.
   Mayor Howard stated if the motion passed, the Board is authorizing
negotiation of a contract with Thompson Architectural firm and will be
presented to the Board for approval. The vote of approval was unanimous.
   City Manager Thomas stated that there might be occasions where special
meetings will be required once the Board embarks on the building project. Mayor
Howard stated when the contract is presented for approval, he will ask the
committee to present a work plan to carry the project through with specific
authorizations, and ask the Board to be prepared in the process to meet on an
as needed basis, with sufficient notice to Board members.
XI.   Other Business
   Franklin Square – Mayor Howard acknowledged that when this item was
previously discussed, there was suppose to be conversation with representatives
from organizations that stage large events in the park. He asked that the Board
consider how to proceed with consideration for Franklin Square Park and that
this matter will be included for discussion on the special meeting agenda per
recommendation of the Beautification Committee.
XII.   City Manager Comments
   None
XIII. Board Comments
   Alderman Poole encouraged attendance and support of local businesses at the
last seasonal Southport Beat on September 21.
   Alderman Coring questioned authorization of the parallel parking installed
on Fodale Avenue near Dosher Hospital when the NCLM Risk Management recommended
no parking in that area. City Manager Thomas acknowledged that he looked at the
area when he was hired and noticed the yellow barricades; the Beautification
Committee deemed the debris and barricades an eyesore and this matter was also
discussed with the Traffic and Transportation Committee. He met with the Public
Services Director and discussed the situation and it was concluded that
parallel parking would work better than perpendicular parking and be much
safer.
   Alderman Coring also asked that Committee reports be included in the consent
agenda to give Board members sufficient time to read the reports before asked
to take action on a recommendation proposed by a committee. He questioned the
method of prioritizing projects and recommendations. He referenced some
projects such as ball fields at the former Stevens’ Park and lighting for Lowe-
White Park. Mayor Howard stated that capital improvement projects are included
in the budget process and if there is an issue that needs to be addressed, the
Board can hold a special meeting.
   Alderman Coring questioned why the night drop box had not been relocated to
Dry Street as previously requested in order to give citizens easier access to
drive up and drop off payments. City Clerk Alexander acknowledged that this had
been discussed during her stint as Manager, but the box had never been moved.
   Alderman Karn suggested that Committee meetings not be held during the same
week as regular city council meetings so that the reports will be included in
the agenda packets.
   Mayor Howard noted that he was impressed when he attended a Rotary Club
meeting and twenty-one members were inducted into the Paul Harris Fellowship by
donating $1,000 to the foundation, which are the most inductees in the
District.
XIV. Closed Session – 7:55 p.m.
   Alderman Karn moved to enter closed session pursuant to Section 143-318(111)
(a)
seconded by Alderman Barnes, vote unanimous. (Clerk excused)
   Executive session minutes will remain sealed until the purpose no longer
frustrates the reason for the closed meeting.
XV.   Adjournment
   The Board re-entered regular session and by consensus, the meeting was
adjourned at 8:25 p.m.
                        ______________________
                        Mayor
_____________________
City Clerk
SEPTEMBER 24, 2012
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN            SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
SEPTEMBER 24, 2012           6:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS, CITY HALL SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole
         Buddy Barnes
         Nelson Adams
         Jim Powell
         Nelson Adams
ABSENT:      Alderman Ken Karn
STAFF PRESENT:   Pat Thomas, City Manager
         Regina W. Alexander, MMC-City Clerk
I.   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
   Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:02 p.m.
II.   Invocation – Alderman Barnes
   Alderman Barnes welcomed everyone and announced the death of former city
employee James “Jimmy” Splawn and Tom Boyan, husband of Donna Boyan, employee
in the Public Works Department.
    Chief Dove delivered the invocation.
   Mayor Howard announced the purpose of the meeting was to hold a Public
Hearing on the consideration of locating a maritime memorial on Ft. Johnston
Garrison lawn and consideration of large events held in Franklin Square Park.
   Alderman Poole gave an overview of the process to locate a maritime memorial
on the Fort Johnston Garrison lawn. She stated that the “concept design for the
memorial calls for an area approximately 32 feet in diameter not including
extensions or connecting walkways. The central portion of the memorial would
consist of a brick octagon about 9-10 feet in diameter, containing an anchor
and a 36 foot nautical style flagpole with multiple flags and pennants, as well
as a surrounding walkway, a planted border area, and a post and chain fence
about three feet high.
   The Committee desired that the City of Southport provide a location on
municipal property for the proposed memorial and requested that the City
consider five different sites for possible placement. The five sites were (a) a
property in the Yacht Basin owned by First Bank, (b) Waterfront Park, (c)
Garrison House lawn, (d) Atlantic Street waterfront access, and (e) Kingsley
Park.
   An analysis of the five sites was conducted by City staff. The Garrison
House lawn site outside of the roped border was deemed the most suitable site
because it had high visibility and accessibility, the site was proximate to
other attractions, amenities and support facilities, the land area was suitable
in size and level, there were no flooding or CAMA regulatory issues. The area
had limited alternative use potential and the proposed use would complement the
other historical uses and activities that take place in and around the Garrison
House and the Maritime Museum. The use of the location will require State
Historic Preservation Office approval.
   The analysis was provided to the Parks and Recreation Committee, the private
Maritime Memorial Committee and the Board of Aldermen Committee. All three
committees concluded that the south side of the Garrison House lawn was the
most suitable potential location for the memorial.” As Chair of the Board
appointed committee, she asked for a Public Hearing to receive public comments
on the potential site.
III.   Public Hearing – Maritime Memorial
   Alderman Poole moved to enter Public Hearing, seconded by Alderman Barnes,
the vote was unanimous
   Mrs. Cheryl Daniels, a member of the Maritime Memorial Steering Committee
thanked the Board for its consideration and accepted the site selected by the
city to locate the maritime memorial monument on the Garrison lawn at Fort
Johnston. She asked that the location be moved farther to the right so that it
would be equal distance from the weather tower. She stated that the Committee
does not wish to see any memorials moved and does not want the weather tower
taken down because all the memorials are important. It is their belief, that
the right side of the Garrison lawn towards the Community Building would be
less intrusive and give the memorial a proper setting because of the aesthetic
value.
   The following persons spoke in support of the maritime memorial, but some
citizens supporting the memorial believed that it should be located some place
other than the Garrison lawn because of the historical significance of Fort
Johnston.
   Garrison Lawn                  Kingsley Park or Other Location
   Ralph Parker                  Ed Boguskie
   Will Rabon, Pilot’s Assoc. Representative      Mary Strickland
   Roy Daniels                  Jim McKee
   Roy Pender                  Rick Johnstone
                        Beverly Wyckoff
   Wilmington Residents
   Ms. Betsy King of Wilmington asked the Board to move slowly when talking
about moving monuments because of the historical significance.
   Ms. Mary Eversole of Wilmington asked that the integrity of the history be
preserved at Fort Johnston because the National Register of Historical Places
does not look at modern monuments and suggested new monuments be placed where
the history is made.
   No further comments from the public, Public Hearing closed upon motion of
Alderman Powell, seconded by Alderman Poole. Vote unanimous.
   Mayor Howard stated that all comments would be taken into consideration.
Recess – 6: 50 p.m.
    Mayor Howard called the meeting back to order at 6:57 p.m.
IV.   Franklin Square Park
   Alderman Barnes stated at the September 2012 meeting and as the liaison to
the Beautification Committee, that he read a report from the Committee. He read
a recommendation but failed to say the report was from an Alderman meeting on
October 4, 2011. In the report, under Item III- Franklin Square, “the Alderman
asked the SBC to pursue the review and recommendation #2, see attachment”,
which is to pursue finding a way to remove the large public events from
Franklin Square which are damaging the live oaks and find alternate sites. At
this time, the Parks & Recreation Advisory Board has recommended tabling any
further action until they come up with options. The SBC is ready to move ahead
when the time is appropriate.” There was a miscommunication, the Beautification
Committee’s report was actually meant to say that they did not want action
taken on the report that was submitted in 2011 and that the matter be tabled
with no action. Ms. Marjorie Jones, a member of the Beautification
Committee confirmed that this action was not intended and acknowledged regrets
for the misunderstanding.
   The following persons spoke and asked that the record reflect their
opposition to relocating events from Franklin Square Park.
   Woody Wilson
   Chris Page, representing the Kiwanis
   Anne Richmond, Brunswick Little Theatre Board of Directors
   Penny Watkins, Owner of Boo & Roo
   Jan Park
   Karen Sphar, Executive Director Chamber of Commerce
   Tom Krieger, Past President NC Fourth of July Festival
   Bob Krasnow, 2012 Chairman, NC Fourth of July Festival
   Harley Lemons, Lions Club, questioned if the oaks are being damaged and
suggested an evaluation.
   Paul Fisher, Downtown Southport, Inc. Representative, events are important
to Southport and promote tourism.
   There were no additional comments from the public. Mayor Howard thanked the
public for their input and announced that the Board of Aldermen had not
considered any actions concerning Franklin Square Park, and that all comments
would be considered. He explained that the report was from the Beautification
Committee, which has the responsibility to look at all issues and make
recommendations to the Board. When this matter came up, the city was entering
into a phase where the parks and the overall city were neglected and the Board
took the necessary actions to abate this problem along with staff. He
encouraged support of staff to continue working on this problem and cited the
importance of using the parks.
   Alderman Coring stated in listening to all the comments, he referenced a
development plan that was performed for the City of Southport and completed in
February of 1991 which addressed some of the same issues that were discussed
i.e. waterfront, signs, Franklin Square Park, oak trees, etc. with
recommendations and implementation. He stated that the Board should implement
some of the recommendations in place rather than re-creating the wheel. He also
cited a report provided to him by the former Planning Director where a team of
Arborists came in, evaluated the oak trees and offered their findings.
   Alderman Barnes reiterated that when he read the report of the Southport
Beautification Committee during the September Board meeting, it was
misinterpreted and a miscommunication.
   Alderman Coring stated the importance of having committees, but believe that
some issues are being acted on because of Committee recommendations, when the
Board has the final say. He again questioned the prioritization of projects and
recommendations.
   Alderman Powell stated that there is a lack of communication between the
Aldermen and public. He thanked Alderman Barnes for his clarification and
agreeing with some of the issues raised by Alderman Coring.
   Alderman Adams thanked the public and noted that it will take some thought
on deciding on a location for the maritime memorial and he will not agree “on
his watch” to relocate events from Franklin Square Park.
   Alderman Poole encouraged citizens to continue using the parks and
reiterated the importance of having public hearings.
   Alderman Barnes thanked all for their attendance and comments. He stated
that the Board needs to proceed slowly on its decision with the maritime
memorial and Franklin Square Park is for the public’s use, and the City needs
to continue maintenance and improvements to the parks.
V.   Rate Review Committee
   Alderman Barnes reported that the Rate Review Committee met September 22,
2012 to consider the establishment of fees for use of the former Visitor’s
Center, Alderman Chambers, and the installation of hanging street banners. He
noted that it cost the City $300 each to hang over the street banners, which
are installed by Brunswick Electric. The City is not charging to hang the
banners and city residents are absorbing the costs. The committee recommends
the following:
Street Banner Recommendation:
In City applicant for in city event         $400
Outside city applicant and doing in city event   $500
Outside event with event outside of city      $600
Beginning FY 13/14 for any events the Board elects during the budgetary process
to provide city sponsorship or co-sponsorship for a banner installation,
sufficient funds should be budgeted in the general fund at $300 per banner to
pay the electric fund for the banner installation.
Banners should be installed only for non-profit events (not for commercial or
political purposes) and request for installation should be handled on a first
come, first serve basis, and city sponsored/ co-sponsored events will have
priority.
   Alderman Adams questioned why the Board should budget money for banner
installation. He stated a formal permit fee should be established by the City,
and individuals communicate directly with Brunswick Electric for installation.
He noted that some events have piggybacked off each other, and multiple events
should not be advertised on the same banner. It is his belief that the City
should not be involved in the process.
    City Manager Thomas noted that Brunswick Electric included the installation
of banners in the City’s contract. He stated upon re-negotiation of the
contract, that this provision could be removed.
    Alderman Powell stated the City could go to a permitting process and issue
permits through the Public Works office. Organizations or individuals would
have to pay for the banners upon permit issuance.
   Alderman Coring noted during a round table with business owners, displeasure
was expressed with signs being installed on Howe Street advertising events
outside of the City and he also agree with a permit issuance.
   City Manager Thomas stated the City does not have a permit policy in place
for installation of banners, work orders are written to Brunswick Electric.
   Alderman Barnes moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to adopt the
recommendation of the Rate Committee for street banners including the costs
effective immediately. Discussion: Alderman Adams asked about multiple events
on one sign. Alderman Barnes amended the motion to allow no more than one event
advertised per sign, the vote of approval was unanimous.
   It was Board consensus that permits be issued for signs/banners.
   Alderman Barnes presented the proposal for rental of the Old Visitor’s
Center and Alderman Chambers. He stated that he was not in support of renting
the Chambers because of liability concerns, maintenance of the sound system,
handicap accessibility, police records stored upstairs, etc.
   Alderman Adams stated opposition to renting the Alderman Chambers to the
public.
   Alderman Powell stated that he did not have a problem with the Homeowners
Association of Indigo using the Chambers since they are taxpayers.
   No further discussion, Alderman Adams moved, seconded by Alderman Barnes
that the Board of Aldermen Chambers not be rented or used for any outside
activities, only for City use, the vote of approval was 4 ayes, Aldermen Adams,
Barnes, Poole and Coring. 1 no, Alderman Powell.
   Alderman Barnes moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to adopt the rate schedule
for rental of the Old Visitor’s Center. The vote of approval was unanimous.
Adjournment – 8:20 p.m.
   Meeting adjourned upon motion of Alderman Coring, seconded by Alderman
Powell. Vote unanimous.
   
                     _____________________________
                     Mayor
___________________________
City Clerk
GOVERNING BOARD POLICY               CITY OF SOUTHPORT, NC
USE OF CITY FACILITIES
A. Purpose  
The purposes of this policy are (a) to identify those facilities under the
supervision of the Administration Department that are available for use and (b)
to establish fees for the rental of those facilities that are available for
use.
B. Eligible Facilities
The following facilities are not available for use or rental:
   ·   Board of Aldermen Chambers
The following facilities are available for rental if not in use or planned for
use for municipal purposes:
   ·   Former Visitors Center, 113 East Moore Street
C. Applications and Permits
Any person or organization that requests the use of a municipal facility under
the supervision of the Administration Department shall make application for
same in a form provided by the Administration Department, which shall review
and approve all applications.
D. Cost of Facilities Use
Fees for the use of the former Visitors Center facilities shall be as follows:
In-City residents:         $160 for up to four hours (minimum)
                  $40/hour after four hours
                  Reservation and clean-up deposit: $160 (in advance)
Non-City residents:         $240 for up to four hours (minimum)
                  $60/hour after four hours
                  Reservation and clean-up deposit: $240 (in advance)
Deposits and minimum fees shall be paid in advance at the time of application.
Based on action by the Board of Aldermen, September 24, 2012.
OCTOBER 11, 2012
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN            REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
OCTOBER 11, 2012             6:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS, CITY HALL SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:       Mayor Robert D. Howard
          Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole
          Buddy Barnes
          Todd Coring
          Jim Powell
          Ken Karn
    Nelson Adams
STAFF PRESENT:   Pat Thomas, City Manager
         Regina W. Alexander, MMC, NCCMC
         Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
         Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
         Jerry Dove, Police Chief
         Robert Tucker, Director Public Services
I.   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
   Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:05 p.m.
II.   Invocation – Alderman Karn
   Alderman Karn welcomed everyone to the meeting.
   Reverend Charles Drew, Pastor of Light House Pentecostal Church delivered
the invocation.
   ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Howard asked, “if any member of the Board knows of
any conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with
respect to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
III.   Consent Agenda
   Alderman Powell moved to approve the consent agenda with noted corrections,
seconded by Alderman Barnes, vote of approval unanimous.
   September 13 minutes Item XIII. Board Comments, paragraph 5: “Committee
meetings not be held during the same week as regular city council meetings so
that the reports will be included in the agenda packets”.  (Correction by
Alderman Karn)
Special Meeting, September 24, correction under Item IV. Franklin Square Park
to reflect the proper spelling of “Krasno to Krasnow , 2012 NC Fourth of July
Festival Chairman”.  (Correction by Alderman Karn)
   Consent agenda items approved were:
   ·   Regular and closed session minutes, September 13, 2012 with correction
   ·   Special meeting minutes with correction
   ·   Committee reports
   ·   Departmental reports
   ·   Resolution of Appreciation to the Wooden Boat Show Committee
   ·   Resolution County Delegation of Pyrotechnics Permit Authority
   ·   Resolution opposing rate increase in homeowners insurance policies
proposed by the
Department of Insurance
IV.    Presentations and Recognitions
    A. Wooden Boat Show Committee – Appreciation for Boat Show Event
   Aldermen Barnes and Karn presented a Resolution of Appreciation to the
Southport Wooden Boat Show Committee.
 RESOLUTION OF APPRECIATION
SOUTHPORT WOODEN BOAT SHOW
   WHEREAS the third annual Southport Wooden Boat Show was held in the
Southport Yacht Basin area on Saturday, September 29, 2012; and
   WHEREAS this unique event featured dozens of uniquely crafted wooden
vessels, new and old, that displayed expert boat-building skills through many
generations; and
   WHEREAS this event was enhanced by a wide variety of additional displays,
from educational activities for children and high quality handcrafted items
offered for sale to coastal art work, a variety of musical presentations, and
the exciting Seafood Chowder Cook-Off; and
   WHEREAS this family-friendly event drew large numbers of residents and
tourists to this outstanding exhibition and helped promote the economic success
of the community; and
   WHEREAS this event appropriately celebrated the great nautical heritage of
Southport and coastal North Carolina;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Mayor and Board of Aldermen that the
City of Southport expresses its deep appreciation and gratitude for the efforts
of the event sponsors – the Southport Wooden Boat Show Committee and Downtown
Southport, Inc. – for the generous contributions of volunteer time and
expertise that made the 2012 Southport Wooden Boat Show a tremendous success.
   Adopted October 11, 2012.
                                           S/Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:
S/Regina Alexander, City Clerk
B. Resolution – Fire Prevention Week
   The Board adopted a resolution proclaiming October 7-13, 2012 as Fire
Prevention Week  upon motion of Alderman Poole, seconded by Alderman Adams,
vote unanimous
Resolution
Fire Prevention Week
October 7 - 13, 2012
WHEREAS, the Southport Fire Department is committed to ensuring the safety and
security of all those living in and visiting our Fire District; and
WHEREAS, fire is a serious public safety concern both locally and nationally,
and homes are the locations where people are at the greatest risk of fire; and
WHEREAS, the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) has documented through
its research a significant increase in home fires, and due to this fact, it is
important that everyone know two ways out of your home in case of a fire; and
WHEREAS, the Firefighters of the Southport Fire Department are dedicated to
reducing the occurrence of residential and commercial structural fires and fire
related injuries through prevention and protection education; and
WHEREAS, the residents of the Southport Fire District are responsive to public
education measures and are able to take personal steps to increase their safety
from fire; and
WHEREAS, being prepared in the event of a home fire will have a positive effect
on the home fire problem; and
WHEREAS, each home fire that is prevented in the Southport Fire District is an
opportunity to prevent painful injury and costly property damage; and
WHEREAS, the 2012 Fire Prevention Week theme, KNOW 2 WAYS OUT – WHEN YOU GET
OUT STAY OUT!, effectively serves to remind us all of the simple actions we can
take to stay safer from fire every day.
THEREFORE, I Robert D. Howard, Mayor of the City of Southport, do hereby
proclaim October 7-13, 2012 as Fire Prevention Week throughout this City.  I
further encourage all citizens of Southport to heed the important safety
messages from the Southport Fire Prevention Team, and the Office of the City
Fire Marshal, and to support the many public safety activities and efforts of
the Southport Fire Department.
ADOPTED, October 11, 2012.
                  S/ Robert D. Howard
                Mayor
Attest:
S/ Regina W. Alexander, Clerk
   Resolution – County Delegation of Pyrotechnics Permit Authority approved
under consent agenda.
 A RESOLUTION REQUESTING DELEGATION
OF PYROTECHNICS PERMITTING AUTHORITY
WHEREAS North Carolina General Statute G.S. 14-410 sets forth the conditions
under which pyrotechnics may be exhibited, used, or discharged; and
WHEREAS these conditions include a requirement that the exhibition, use, or
discharge of pyrotechnics may occur only after issuance of written permission
from the board of commissioners of the county – or, if appropriately
authorized, the city in which the pyrotechnics are to be exhibited, used or
discharged; and
WHEREAS G.S. 14-413(a1) provides that a board of county commissioners may
authorize the governing body of any city in the county to issue permits for the
exhibition, use, and discharge of pyrotechnics in association with concerts and
public exhibitions; and
WHEREAS the City of Southport possesses the administrative capacity to ensure
compliance with the requirements of G.S. 14-410 and the technical expertise to
ensure that appropriate measures are undertaken to permissible exhibitions,
uses, and discharges of pyrotechnics take place in a safe manner;
   BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport that the
City requests that the Board of Commissioners of the County of Brunswick adopt
a resolution authorizing the City of Southport to issue permits for the
exhibition, use, and discharge of pyrotechnics within the corporate limits of
the city in connection with the conduct of concerts or public exhibitions.
   Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, October 11,
2012.
                        S/ Robert D. Howard
Attest:
S/Regina W. Alexander, City Clerk
V.    Approval of Agenda
   Mayor Howard asked that the agenda be amended to include the following:
   ·   Resolution opposing an insurance rate increase by the N.C. Department of
Insurance
   ·   Other Business for discussion only, Fort Johnston approval
   ·   Other Business, Utility Committee will present a citizen sewer
connection situation on East 11th Street.
   ·   Alderman Poole asked that Item VII.A Maritime Memorial Location be
removed from the agenda.
   Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to approve the agenda as
amended.  Vote unanimous.
VI.   Public Comments
   Mr. Ken Stewart, 603 Fodale Avenue and owner of Stewart’s Hardware
encouraged the Board to heed fiscal constraint when spending public dollars. He
cited businesses making compromises due to the economy, referenced the fire
station, proposed purchase of an artificial Christmas tree and proposed
building renovations.
VII.   Unfinished Business
   A. Maritime Memorial Location tabled upon request of Alderman Poole and the
Maritime Memorial Committee.
   B. Franklin Square Park Use
   Mayor Howard stated during the public meeting on September 24, that the
Board heard recommendations from committee representatives and citizens. The
Board took no action, and there is no contemplative actions being considered by
the Board of Aldermen.
   Alderman Barnes moved, seconded by Alderman Coring to table indefinitely any
actions or decisions on the use of Franklin Square Park. The vote of approval
was unanimous.
   C. Right-of-Way Use Licenses Policy
   Mayor Howard noted at the September meeting, staff presented a policy for
right of way use license for items that are placed on the City’s right of ways.
The Board did not fully consider the policy and he asked that the Board
consider it because it is needed for the good of the city and community.
   Alderman Poole moved to approve the amendment to the City Ordinance and
adopt the right of way use license policy, seconded by Alderman Barnes.
Discussion: Alderman Karn stated that the existing ordinance is not being
complied with concerning right of way encroachments, and questioned if adopting
a new policy would make a difference relative to enforcement. It was his
contention that the City should not give away public rights of way and
businesses should look for locations on their own property to place dumpsters
and stated that this may open up a “hornets’ nest.”
   Alderman Coring echoed sentiments made by Alderman Karn and questioned what
changed since the last meeting and questioned the number of complaints
received.
   Mayor Howard stated in adopting the right of way use policy, it will give
the city opportunity to work with businesses and property owners for exceptions
on a case by case basis. The amendment allows a citizen or business to make
application through the City Manager’s office to the Board for permission to
use city right of way and the Board will make the determination. Alderman
Coring stated it is his belief that this could very well get out of control and
where would the line be drawn. The City does not need to get in the business of
giving away public property and he believes that this could possibly cause more
issues for the City because several dumpsters and objects are currently located
on the City right of way.
   Mayor Howard stated the Board needs to be prepared for this eventuality and
evaluate the need of each business or property owner because there are
extenuating situations that require consideration.
   Alderman Barnes stated that this is a license; the city is not giving away
property and acknowledged several areas in the city that have encroachment
issues. Alderman Adams stated that policies can be changed and at present, the
city does not have anything in place to control the situations and should work
with the businesses.
   Mayor Howard called for the vote: 4 ayes, Aldermen Poole, Barnes, Powell,
Adams
               2 noes, Aldermen Karn and Coring. Motion passed 4-2.
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE CITY CODE REGARDING OBSTRUCTIONS OF RIGHTS-OF-WAY
BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina:
Section 1. The Code of Ordinances, City of Southport, North Carolina, is hereby
amended by addition of the language underlined below.
Sec. 16-8. - Obstruction of public rights-of-way.
(a) Except as specifically set forth in subsection (b) herein or as authorized
by a license issued by the Board of Aldermen, it shall be unlawful for any
person to place or cause to be placed on any public street, road, alley,
sidewalk or other public right of way within the city any wall, fence, gate,
brick, stone, wood, rock, vegetation or other structure, material or substance
above the horizontal plane of the existing ground. In addition, it shall be
unlawful for any person to take any action whatsoever within any public right
of way which creates a hazardous condition or safety hazard or which otherwise
interferes with or obstructs in any manner the passage of persons or vehicles
upon or within said public rights of way or which obstructs, interferes with or
hinders lawful parking within any public right of way.
(b) Nothing herein shall prevent any business or other legal entity located in
areas zoned CBD and BD from (i) placing objects which are not otherwise
prohibited under the Southport Code of Ordinances on that portion of a sidewalk
which is directly abutting the building occupied by such business or entity,
provided that said items do not extend more than thirty-six (36) inches into
the sidewalk and do not violate section 16-7 of the Code of Ordinances
prohibiting the display of goods, or (ii) placing A-frame signs on a sidewalk
or right of way where specifically allowed under the Southport Unified
Development Ordinance. Notwithstanding this, however, no business or other
entity may place or cause to be placed any object on a sidewalk so as to
violate the provisions of the ADA regarding unobstructed clearance.
Section 2. This ordinance shall be effective upon its adoption.
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, October 11,
2012.
                     S/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
                     
Attest:
S/Regina W. Alexander, City Clerk
CITY OF SOUTHPORT POLICY
RIGHT-OF-WAY USE LICENSES
A. BACKGROUND
While the City desires to avoid the placement of obstructions in the public
right-of-way, the City acknowledges that special circumstances may sometimes
warrant consideration of allowing use of a right-of-way area or municipal
property for limited private purposes. Such circumstances may arise due to the
significant width of some rights-of-way, the absence of private land to
accommodate essential facilities, unique physical circumstances, a desire to
preserve trees, landscaping, or the environment, or other special situations in
which the City desires to make reasonable and fair accommodations of business
or resident needs.
B. PURPOSE
The purpose of this policy is set forth the reasons, conditions, and
administrative guidelines for allowing – in certain limited circumstances and
under specific conditions – private use of municipal right-of-way or property
areas. When permission is issued pursuant to this policy, the permission shall
be in the form of a written license.
C. POLICY
1. Qualifying Circumstances. The City of Southport may elect to grant
permission for use of a portion of a municipal right-of-way or property when
the Board of Aldermen of the City finds (a) that there will be no significant
adverse effect on essential uses of the municipal right-of-way or property and
(b) that one or more of the following conditions exists:
a. Private property is not reasonably available to accommodate the proposed
land use; or
b. Unique physical circumstances prevent the use of private property for the
proposed land use; or
c. Natural resources would be better protected by the use of the city property
or right-of-way; or
d. Public safety, health, or welfare would be better protected by the proposed
license for use.
2. Form of Permission. Approval to use a portion of a municipal right-of-way or
property shall be in the form of a written license issued to the applicant. A
license is permission granted by a competent authority to exercise a certain
privilege that, without such authorization, would constitute an illegal act.
3. Conditions. The City may impose, in association with any license provided
for the use of municipal right-of-way or property, any conditions that it
considers necessary or prudent to protect the public safety, health, or welfare
or to mitigate any potential adverse effects.
4. Term and Termination. The term of any license for use of a municipal right-
of-way or property shall be as specified by the Board of Aldermen, or, if not
specified, until terminated by the City. The City may terminate a license for
use of municipal right-of-way or property at any time upon 30 days’ notice.
5. Compensation. The Board of Aldermen may require, when it considers it to be
necessary or appropriate, compensation in association with the issuance of a
license or reimbursement of any costs associated with issuance of the license.
D. ADMINISTRATION
1. Applications. Persons who desire consideration for a license for limited use
of a municipal right-of-way or property area shall make application for same in
a form required by the city manager and shall pay any required application fee.
The application fee shall, unless otherwise prescribed by the Board of
Aldermen, be $100. The application shall provide any necessary documents or
maps needed to adequately describe and depict the proposed license.
2. Review. The city staff shall review and investigate the application and
shall bring to the attention of the Board of Aldermen any information or
observations related to the required findings for issuance of licenses.
3. Approval. All licenses must be approved by the Board of Aldermen, after
consideration in a regular or special meeting of the Board and action to make
the findings required by this policy. Any approved licenses shall be in a form
approved by the Board, including any conditions imposed in association with the
approval.
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen, October 11, 2012.
                        S/Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest: S/Regina W. Alexander, City Clerk
Presentation and Recognition of Neal Sage – Appreciation of Service as Chief of
   Rescue Squad
Aldermen Coring and Poole, members of the Emergency Services Preparedness
Committee, presented a plaque on behalf of the Board to Neal Sage in
appreciation of his service as Rescue Chief (February 2009- August 2012) and
commended him on his efforts to increase medical transport by 60% and increased
the Squad’s response to 98%. Chief Sage thanked the Board and citizens of
Southport for their support.
VIII.   New Business
   A. Pedestrian Plan Consultant Contract
   The Board upon request of City Manager Thomas, having received responses to
a request for proposals (RFP’s), authorized contract negotiations and execution
of a contract upon motion of Alderman Karn, seconded by Alderman Poole with
consulting firm (1) Kimley-Horn and Associates, and if a satisfactory contract
is not negotiated, then undertake negotiations with (2) Alta/Greenways Planning
for the same purpose. The vote of approval was unanimous.
IX.    Other Business
   Christmas tree – Alderman Barnes discussed with the Board the location for a
Christmas tree. He stated that the City has had problems securing a live tree
due to winds off the river, and a cedar tree is scheduled to be replanted at
the Whittler’s Bench. He suggested placing the tree this year in a centralized
location possibly at the corner of Howe and West Moore where the old BB&T ATM
machine was once located. However, there is no way to secure a live tree. He
spoke with the City Manager about the possibility of purchasing an artificial
Christmas tree from MOSCA Design, a N.C. Company. The City’s net cost for an
18-foot tree would be $6,715 + $400 freight. The tree comes with lights and a
star. If ordered by October 12, the City could receive the tree before
Thanksgiving and it could be in place before scheduled the Christmas events.
   Alderman Adams suggested contacting merchants about monetary contributions
towards the purchase of the tree. Alderman Barnes stated that he has contacted
DSI and merchants to procure donations, but Downtown Southport Inc. is out of
funds.
   Alderman Barnes motioned to purchase an 18-foot Christmas tree from MOSCA
Design at a cost of $6,715. He stated his willingness to pick up the tree in
Hickory to save $400.00 in freight. Alderman Powell seconded the motion subject
upon donations being solicited from businesses to offset the costs. Discussion:
Alderman Adams stated support of the concept and suggested a smaller tree
initially (14 ft) and panels be added over subsequent years. Vote: 3 ayes,
Barnes, Poole, Powell. 1 abstention, Adams, 2 no votes, Karn and Coring.
Motion passed 4-2.
   Fort Johnston – Mayor Howard asked the Board to consider implementing
procedures that any changes, alterations or additions to the Fort Johnston
Complex require three votes of the Aldermen, two of which will be in a regular
meeting of the Board giving citizens’ opportunity for input. He consulted the
Attorney on this matter.
   Attorney Isenberg presented options for Board consideration,
   ·   Policy /resolution stating what Mayor Howard proposed, which requires a
majority vote
   ·   Adopt an Ordinance, which would require 4-2 vote.
   ·   Local Act, if the Board wished to make this action permanent. This would
require an amendment to the Charter and general assembly approval by a local
act.
   Alderman Barnes stated his support because Fort Johnston is an emotional
topic. Alderman Karn agreed, stating that the Board hears from the public after
an action has been decided by the Board.
   Mayor Howard asked City Manager Thomas and Attorney Isenberg to draft a
proposal for presentation at the November meeting.
   Sewer – East 11th Street (Mrs. Vernell Salmon)
   Mayor Howard briefed the Board on a sewer situation on East 11th Street. He
communicated that staff inadvertently discovered that the resident was not
connected to the City’s sewer system but had been paying for sewer since 1996.
   Alderman Powell, Chair of the Utility Committee stated that he spoke with
the resident and discovered that she did not move into the house until 1996
upon relocating to North Carolina. A realtor was handling her affairs and she
paid through the realtor’s office for city sewer connection. She thought that
she was connected because there is a sewer manhole in her front yard. When the
City was contacted because of a sewer problem, it was discovered that the house
was on a septic system. He stated the resident is a senior citizen and has an
invalid husband and wished to be reimbursed. She paid the sewer bill for
fifteen years at a total cost of $7,768.53 and is asking for a refund. She has
since hired a plumber and was connected to city sewer on September 20, 2012.
The Utility Committee recommends that the monies be reimbursed.
   City Manager Thomas stated since the matter was not on the agenda, he did
not have the information readily available pertaining to this situation.
However, the City has a board-adopted policy dated in 1997 indicating that when
sewer is extended in front of a house whether or not it is connected, it will
be billed for sewer. He explained that this is a common policy in
municipalities because the city pays the upfront capital costs to extend sewer
while making capacity available, people pay whether or not they are physically
connected. At this time, staff does not know, but there may be others in the
City with the same problem. The Board needs to consider whether it is prepared
to refund money to everyone covered by the policy and what to do about billings
going forward under the same policy.
   Alderman Adams, member of the Utility Committee supported the recommendation
to reimburse the resident and start over because the realtor is deceased.
   Alderman Barnes questioned the number of people in the same situation and
was told by City Manager Thomas that a house-to-house audit would need to be
conducted. Alderman Barnes acknowledged the city’s policy but stated it is his
belief that the right thing to do
is to refund the money. Alderman Poole agreed.
   Mayor Howard referenced the issue with the hospital using the wrong
multiplier on electricity for several years, but the city negotiated with them
and could only go back two years to collect because of the statute of
limitation.
   Attorney Isenberg stated that the Board has an adopted policy, which states
that a citizen shall be charged the minimum sewer fee even if not physically
connected if the line is extended by their house. In his opinion, if the Board
is not going to follow policy, it will be in violation of its own policy. There
is also a two-year statute of limitation for claims against the city.
It was noted that the resident has paid more than minimum fee in the amount of
one million, seventy eight thousand, two hundred and fifty gallons worth of
sewer (1,078,250) which is more than minimum. Attorney Isenberg stated with
this scenario, they might be entitled to the difference between the minimum
sewer/water bill.
   Mayor Howard requested that this item be considered at the November Board
meeting as “unfinished business.” Alderman Adams asked that a copy of the
policy be provided to the Board, and the city work to find if other residents
are affected by the same situation.
X.    City Manager Comments
   Resolution – The insurance industry has proposed an increase to homeowners’
insurance rates across the state, with an average increase of 17.7% and 30% for
coastal towns. A Public Hearing will be held in Raleigh on October 17 and
comments can be made on line at 2012homeowners@ncdoi.gov. (Resolution approved
as to form under consent agenda).
A RESOLUTION OPPOSING PROPOSED INCREASE IN COASTAL HOMEOWNER INSURANCE RATES
WHEREAS a robust housing market and sound, sustainable economy depends on the
availability of affordable and accessible property insurance; and
WHEREAS coastal area homeowners already pay – in addition to the separate cost
of wind and hail coverage – homeowner insurance premiums up to five times the
rates charged for inland properties; and
WHEREAS  the North Carolina Rate Bureau has asked the North Carolina Department
of Insurance to approve a major increase in homeowners insurance rates – an
increase that will have a seriously adverse effect on coastal counties,
including Brunswick county; and
WHEREAS the proposed 30 percent increase for the coastal counties closely
follows a 17.5 percent increase for coastal counties in 2009, on top of rate
increases in every rate cycle in the last 20 years; and
WHEREAS actual loss experience indicates that, in many instances, central and
western counties in North Carolina have had more losses per premium dollar than
has been paid in eastern NC counties; and
WHEREAS the steep proposed overall increases and the proposed severe
disparities in insurance rates would place an unfair and unwarranted burden on
homeowners in coastal counties; and
WHEREAS the North Carolina Department of Insurance plans to conduct a public
hearing on the proposed rate increase on October 17, 2012, less than three
weeks following the rate request filing;
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the City of Southport strongly oppose the
radical rate increase requested by the insurance industry for property owners
in Brunswick County and other coastal counties. The Southport Board of Aldermen
also encourages citizens to submit their own comments to the Department of
Insurance before the October 19, 2012 deadline.
Unanimously adopted by the City of Southport Board of Aldermen, October 11,
2012.
                              
                     S/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest
S/Regina W. Alexander, City Clerk
   Board of Adjustment ETJ Members: City Manager Thomas reported that the
County Commissioners approved the recommendations of Joe Pat Hatem, Frank
Popelars, and Chris Maynor as extraterritorial jurisdiction appointments to the
Southport Board of Adjustments
 XI.    Board Comments
   Building Improvements Committee – Alderman Powell reported that the
committee met and John Thompson, Architect evaluated the Code Enforcement
Building, Old Fire Department and Rescue Squad. The Rescue Squad building is in
good shape and meets most of the codes with minimum modifications. It was
recommended that the old fire station and Code Enforcement Building be torn
down because the 1955 construction is not compliant with today’s building codes
and would cost more money to bring into compliance.
   Alderman Powell moved to authorize up to $32,000 for the removal of the Old
Fire Department and the Code Enforcement buildings, and to conduct an
environmental assessment on City Hall, seconded by Alderman Poole.  Discussion:
Alderman Coring noted that the Rescue Squad had asked for the portion of the
fire department that once housed the old Model-T and chief’s office and asked
if this is in the plan.   Alderman Powell responded if that area was built in
the 50’s it would be torn down and when reconstructed a firewall will be
installed. The vote of approval was unanimous.
   Citizens were encouraged to attend events scheduled the month of October
i.e. commemoration of the War of 1812 and the Pyrate Fest.
   Mayor Howard extended welcome on behalf of the Board to the new
administrator of Dosher Hospital.
XII.    Adjournment – 7:35 p.m.
   Alderman Poole moved to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Alderman Barnes.
Vote unanimous.
                        ___________________________
                        Mayor
________________________________
City Clerk
NOVEMBER 8, 2012
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN            REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
NOVEMBER 8, 2012             6:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS, CITY HALL SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
          Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole
          Buddy Barnes
          Todd Coring
          Jim Powell
          Ken Karn
    Nelson Adams
STAFF PRESENT:   Pat Thomas, City Manager
         Michele Windham, Deputy City Clerk
         Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
         Jerry Dove, Police Chief
         Robert Tucker, Public Services Director
I.   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
   Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:05 p.m.
II.   Invocation
   Alderman Coring welcomed everyone to the meeting and spoke the invocation.
III.   Presentation and Recognitions
   A.   Southport Garden Club
    Alderman Poole recognized the Southport Garden Club, its members past and
present and their many contributions to the community.
   All Board members joined Mayor Howard in front of the dais as he read a
proclamation designating November 4-10 as Southport Garden Club Week. Each
Garden Club member was presented with an Amaryllis bulb by Board members.
PROCLAMATION DESIGNATING NOVEMBER 4 - 10, 2012 AS SOUTHPORT GARDEN CLUB WEEK IN
SOUTHPORT
   WHEREAS the Southport Garden Club was founded in 1949 with the objective of
advancing gardening and beautification in the city of Southport; and
   WHEREAS the Southport Garden Club has always been during its 62-year history
a working club, dedicated to hands-on achievement of the club’s objectives; and
   WHEREAS the club’s initial membership of 12 has grown to a total of 40,
reflecting the club’s commitment to a broader range of community beautification
projects; and
   WHEREAS, Southport Garden Club’s earliest projects included the
beautification of the current Southport City Hall and Franklin Square Park
through the plantings of azaleas that continue to be enjoyed by the residents
of and visitors to the community; and
   WHEREAS, the Southport Garden Club has expanded its contributions to the
community by planting and maintaining the Triangle Garden on East Moore Street,
the planter boxes at City Hall, the flower garden at Keziah Park, seven wooden
planters throughout Southport’s downtown area and, most recently, planter areas
at the Southport Fire Station; and
   WHEREAS the Southport Garden Club has demonstrated for generations its
unstinting dedication to service in Southport through the improvement and
beautification of the appearance of our community;
   NOW, THEREFORE, I, ROBERT D. HOWARD, MAYOR OF THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT, HEREBY
PROCLAIM, on behalf of the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, that
November 4-10, 2012, is SOUTHPORT GARDEN CLUB WEEK in Southport, and the Mayor
and Board of Aldermen express our deep appreciation and gratitude to the
Southport Garden Club for its outstanding and ongoing service to our community
for a period of over 60 years.
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
Clerk
   Alderman Barnes introduced and welcomed Dosher Memorial Hospital new CEO,
Tom Siemers.
   Mayor Howard called a recess for Board members and the audience to briefly
meet with Mr. Siemers.
Reconvene:   6:24 p.m.
   ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Howard stated, “if any member of the Board knows of
any conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with
respect to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
IV.   Consent Agenda
   Alderman Powell moved to approve the consent agenda , seconded by Alderman
Coring, vote of approval unanimous.
   Consent agenda items approved were:
   •   Regular minutes, October 11, 2012
   •   Resolution Honoring Veterans
   •   Committee Reports
   •   Department Reports
V.    Approval of Agenda
   Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to approve the agenda.
Vote unanimous.
VI.   Public Comments
   Ms. Sue MacCallum, Brunswick Arts Council and co-chairman of the Charles
Dickens Christmas Festival, updated the Board on the festival to be held
Friday, November 30 and Saturday December 1. The family friendly event will be
held rain or shine, it is unknown how many people will attend, most activities
will be indoors in multiple venues, a good relationship is being built with the
local merchants, 120 performers are scheduled, 100 volunteers will be assisting
at all venues, it is hoped the event can be an annual event and will encompass
a larger area. Ms. MacCallum acknowledged the invaluable help of Downtown
Southport Inc. She thanked city officials and city staff for their continued
support. A time line of the event was provided to each Board member.
   Alderman Barnes questioned if tickets for the event would be available at
local businesses. Ms. MacCallum indicated tickets are currently only available
online but consideration is being made for purchase of ticket by other means.
   Mayor Howard conveyed the Board and city staff’s appreciation for the
upcoming event.
VII.    Unfinished Business
   There was no unfinished business.
VIII.   New Business
   A. Budget Amendment # 3 – Fire Brush Truck Purchase
   Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Powell to  approve Budget
Amendment #3.  Vote unanimous.
BUDGET AMENDMENT #3
FISCAL 2012-2013 BUDGET ORDINANCE
WHEREAS the City of Southport desires to purchase a brush truck for the Fire
Department; and
WHEREAS the City desires to proceed with purchasing this equipment without
financing, as initially planned in the budget; and
WHEREAS there are sufficient funds in the Fire Reserve portion of the General
Fund fund balance to proceed with the purchase without financing; and
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for the FY 2012-2013 fiscal year needs to be
amended to reflect the revenues and appropriations necessary to carry out this
capital expenditure;
BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2012-2013 shall be
amended as follows:
GENERAL FUND
Revenues            Previous Amount   Increase   Amended Amount
Fund Balance Appropriated      $ 50,400      $ 50,000*   $ 100,400
*from Fire Reserve
Appropriations
Fire               $ 584,500      $ 50,000   $ 634,500
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, November 8,
2012.
                  /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Regina W. Alexander, MMC
    City Clerk
   B. Appointments
   Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Barnes to re-appoint Owen Garner
to the Brunswick County Airport Commission. Vote unanimous.
   Alderman Barnes moved, seconded by Alderman Coring to appoint Kathleen
Jaeckel to the Beautification Committee. Vote unanimous.
   C. Discussion – Hunting on City Property
   City Manager Thomas indicated he had received inquiries about hunting on the
City’s four hundred acre property adjacent to Military Ocean Terminal Sunny
Point (MOTSU). He pointed out the property had been annexed into the city
limits and the City Code of Ordinances prohibits discharge of firearms in the
city limits. He noted issues that would accompany hunting; i.e., vehicular
access, licensing, protection of property, liability of risk, indemnification,
and establishment of a policy or ordinance change if the Board considers
permitting hunting. Manager Thomas stated his research of the issue had
revealed lease agreements by the City of Jacksonville and Brunswick County
permitting hunting.
   Alderman Barnes expressed his opinion that the property is too small, its
close proximity to MOTSU could pose a danger and with it being in the city
limits the ordinance should take precedence.
   Alderman Coring shared his understanding that people are already hunting on
the property.
   Alderman Powell suggested the City Manager provide Board members with the
Jacksonville and Brunswick County agreements for review.
   Alderman Adams spoke in opposition to permitting hunting.
   Alderman Poole, a MOTSU employee, agreed with Aldermen Barnes and Adams.
   Alderman Adams moved, seconded by Alderman Poole; the City will not elect to
go into any agreement with person or persons to hunt on City property.
   Ayes:   Aldermen Adams, Poole, Barnes, Karn
   Nay:   Aldermen Coring, Powell
   Motion Carried 4 - 2
IX.   Other Business
   Alderman Poole reported the Emergency Services Committee met November 5 and
submits a recommendation that the Board of Aldermen hold their next regular
board meeting at the Fire Department with an open house and dedication of new
equipment; two police cars, ladder truck, ambulance and crash truck transferred
from the rescue squad.
   Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Powell to hold the December Board
meeting, open house and equipment dedication December 13, 5:30 p.m. at Fire
Headquarters, 1011 N. Howe Street. Vote unanimous.
   Alderman Karn provided members with a draft Ordinance Amending Filming
Requirements of the City of Southport prepared by the Film Ordinance Committee
for Board review prior to a workshop. He encouraged everyone to review the
ordinance and direct any questions or concerns to him or the City Manager.
   Alderman Powell reported that the Building Improvements Committee met and
plans are moving forward for demolition of 107 and 109 E. Nash Street and an
environmental assessment of City Hall. He noted the Board had previously
allocated $32,000 for this phase of the project.
   Alderman Barnes reported that $3,250 had been collected towards the purchase
of a new Christmas tree, total cost $6,700. Manager Thomas indicated the tree
had been received. Alderman Adams suggested each Board member contribute $100
towards the purchase of the tree.
   A workshop was scheduled for December 6, 10:00 a.m. at Fire Headquarters,
1011 N. Howe Street.
X.    City Manager Comments
   Manager Thomas announced that donations to the Red Cross for aid to the
victims of Hurricane Sandy would be accepted November 12 - 15 by the Chamber of
Commerce.
XI.    Board Comments
   Alderman Coring thanked the Parks and Recreation staff for the Halloween
carnival, senior luncheon and upgrades made to park facilities. He also thanked
Police Officer Melissa Hinnant for her work with car seat safety and the Fire
Department for its quick response to a recent house fire.
   Alderman Barnes thanked the Parks and Recreation staff for the paint job on
the gazebo at Waterfront Park.
   Alderman Poole announced that Santa Clause would be coming to town December
4.
   Each Board member wished everyone a safe and happy Thanksgiving.
XII.    Adjournment – 7:08 p.m.
   Alderman Adams moved to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Alderman Barnes .
Vote unanimous.
                        ___________________________
                        Mayor
________________________________
Deputy City Clerk
DECEMBER 4, 2012
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN            SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
DECEMBER 4, 2012             3:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS, CITY HALL SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:       Mayor Robert D. Howard
          Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole
          Buddy Barnes
          Todd Coring
          Jim Powell
          Ken Karn
    Nelson Adams
STAFF PRESENT:   Pat Thomas, City Manager
         Michele Windham, Deputy City Clerk
         Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
         Robert Tucker, Public Services Director
I.   Call to Order – 3:00 p.m.
   Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 3:00 p.m.
II.   Invocation
   Alderman Powell welcomed everyone to the meeting.
   Pastor Charles Drew, Lighthouse Pentecostal Church, delivered the
invocation.
   ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Howard stated, “if any member of the Board knows of
any conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with
respect to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
III.   Mayor Howard announced the purpose of the special meeting was to receive
an update and recommendation from the Building Improvement Committee.
Mayor Howard read a statement detailing the background for establishing the
committee, the process taken, studies and evaluations conclusions and the
committee’s recommendation:
   Background:
   “The Board’s charge to the Building Improvement Committee (BIC) was to
determine the most cost effective option of providing affordable solutions for
work space for city employees in the City Hall and Code Enforcement office
buildings. Over the years our administration and prior administrations have
allowed the City’s buildings and workplaces to deteriorate in favor of saving a
few bucks in the moment.
   During the past 18 months, our Board recognized the necessity to maintain
and upgrade City owned properties throughout City government and to provide
sufficient and feasible workspace for our staff, as a result last year we
engaged the services of John Sawyer Architects to assist the Board in producing
a “Long Range Facilities Study Plan.”
    Since that time two separate committees made up of council members and
staff have studied the issue and concluded that the City Hall and Code
Enforcement buildings do not meet the municipal government needs of the City.
   We learned from the initial study that both buildings are in deteriorating
condition, with antiquated operating systems and are functionally obsolete.
   Currently many City employees are working in woefully inadequate and
overcrowded conditions, to include but not limited to the Police, Finance and
Code Enforcement Departments.
   We assume the reason our predecessors deferred maintenance was because the
fact of the   matter is when you look at our existing buildings where we house
our City employees you know it’s just a temporary solution predicting that
other deterioration in the buildings would occur over time.
This Board, as a result of the study, began implementing some of the acceptable
recommendations to include upgrading the Parks & Recreation, Visitors Center,
Tourism and the Fire Department. Now it is time to continue to move forward in
accordance with the Long Range Facilities Plan.
   The BIC has conducted its studies and evaluation in consideration of the
City’s goal for energy
   conservation and energy use; sustainable design and construction including
life cycle cost
   evaluations and the application and suitability of these goals for the City
Hall Renovation and
   Retrofit project.
    The $2.2 million proposal we will recommend this afternoon will replace the
deteriorating City Hall building on Moore Street and the Code Enforcement
Office on Nash Street.
   Process:
   Your (Aldermen’s) difficult decision will be deciding on spending three plus
million dollars to patch-up and maintain a perpetually eroding City Hall
building and constructing a small facility to house police, planning,
inspections and code enforcement or instead constructing or acquiring a new
facility either at a lesser cost to taxpayers.
   At the Board’s direction and with its authorization, the BIC undertook a
feasibility study on the old Fire Department building and the Code Enforcement
building. The evaluation was lead by City Manager Pat Thomas and Project
Architect John Thompson and his associates. This study determined it is not
feasible to use existing Nash Street buildings to accommodate our needs.
   Additionally, City Manager Thomas contracted with Stewart Mulford’s firm who
are professional construction cost estimators. The result of their study
indicated that the cost would approximate $1,750,000.00 to perform the
additions, renovations and retrofit to the City Hall building and $1,350,000 to
construct a facility to house the Police, Code Enforcement and Planning
Departments.
   After looking at the potential cost to renovate and retrofit City Hall, the
committee pondered (i) what if we take down or replace the three buildings and
start over or (ii) what if we find ways to renovate some portions of the
existing buildings, with some substantial changes for making them seismically
functional and energy & operating efficient.
   What are the options?
   1.   Renovate City Hall and construct an annex building on Nash Street. This
approach will be the largest cost to the taxpayers; or
   2.   We could sell the building & property to a private contractor, who
could renovate the building and then sell it back to the City (the hope is it
would cost less than the previous option, but this may be a slippery slope to
travel; or
   3.   We could renovate as a community project through both private and
public funding (an ideal choice that could take a long time to complete - maybe
too long; or
   4.   We could build a facility or acquire an existing facility to house all
of the affected employees under one roof.
   Study and Evaluation Conclusions:
   We believe the most prudent and cost effective approach for the tax payers
is a new facility to replace the existing City Hall which is outdated and
deteriorating; in fact, the building systems including plumbing, electrical,
HVAC are deteriorating and are functionally obsolete. When City Hall was built,
the most a person would have to plug in was a desk lamp. The old City Hall
cannot effectively support our new technological needs. In arriving at our
recommendation, the committee cautions about throwing money away on the current
City Hall building if ultimately it would not be functionally or economically
feasible.
   In considering replacement we evaluated purchasing land if we could find an
appropriate location at an affordable price vs. going into the market to
determine if there is an existing facility that would accommodate our needs.
   The Committee asked City Manager Thomas and Project Architect John Thompson
to project the cost of a new facility. The results will be shared with you in a
few minutes.
   Additionally, City Manager Thomas looked at the market to determine if there
was a suitable option. He located a suitable building located at 1029 N. Howe
Street on the market which we have determined will effectively fit our space
needs.
   It is our opinion that the cost to renovate City Hall and construct a small
annex facility at the combined cost in excess of $3,000,000 is cost
prohibitive; consequently, we came to the conclusion that the City should
seriously consider abandoning those facilities and either construct or obtain a
replacement facility.
   Recommendation:
   The Building Improvement Committee is recommending a new city hall to house
all the city departments (Administration, Finance, Police, Planning,
Inspections and Code Enforcement) under one roof.
   The BIC, after considering (i) site options (ii) land purchase and
construction, and (iii) acquisition of the 1029 N. Howe Street building
concluded that the 1029 N. Howe Street building which is on the same block
directly north of the Fire Department facility is the best alternative.
   Another attractive observation is that with the very functional two story
building on the north end of the block and the fire department on the south end
of the block will create a great public presence with the potential (as
property becomes available) of creating a municipal complex to include
facilities with sufficient parking spaces along Lord and 11 th street.
   The building will house our staff with minimal upfit and retrofits; however
it will require that we construct a small addition to accommodate the Council
Chambers. We have studied variable options considering available property at
that site determining there are several options.
   One proposal has the Council Chambers on the east end of the building, near
N. Howe Street, while another moves Council Chambers to the west end of the
building.”
   Mayor Howard displayed detailed cost projections of the options via a
PowerPoint presentation. He indicated a purchase contract for 1029 N. Howe
Street for $1.8 million has been negotiated, pointing out the purchase listing
was $2.2 million. He stated the total cost of $2,128,000.00 would include a
$50,000 up fit allowance, $250,000 for addition of a Council Chambers and
$25,000 for deferred maintenance.
   Mayor Howard pointed out there are currently two leases for 1029 N. Howe
Street; the first floor lease runs through 2013 and the lease with Wells
Financial for the second floor runs through 2016. He expressed his opinion the
lease for the first floor could be negotiated out to accommodate an expeditious
occupancy of the Police Department and Code Enforcement departments. He added
his belief the second floor lease can be negotiated as well resulting in a
reduced total cost of the structure to $1,926,382.09.
   Manager Thomas went through multiple views of 1029 N. Howe Street
emphasizing the close proximity to the Public Services Department, Fire
Department Headquarters and the potential to create a future municipal campus.
He highlighted specifics of the building;
•      Built in 2006
•      In good condition with the exception of exterior painting needed
•      10,008 heated sq. ft.
•      Meets all space planning needs articulated in previous plans for City
Hall and Nash Street offices
•      Has an elevator and two stairwells
•      Has 30 parking spaces
•      First floor plan mirrored on each end with separate lobbies would allow
for two departments with two distinct entrances
•      Second floor comprised of excellent office space
•      Wired for phone and data
•      The site lends itself to addition of Council meeting space
   Alderman Powell expressed his support of the recommendation to purchase 1029
N. Howe Street noting the age of the building, start of a municipal campus and
that City departments would not be displaced multiple times in the case of
renovations to City Hall.
   Alderman Adams concurred with Alderman Powell stating he sees the Board as
visionaries doing what is best for the City at the least cost.
   Mayor Howard discussed the purchase agreement, copies of which to be
provided to each Board member; anticipated closing date and the period for due
diligence.
   Attorney Isenberg indicated he had reviewed the purchase agreement. He
emphasized the City can cancel the contract any time prior to December 20. He
stated he could have title searches and closing documentation ready for the
December 27 scheduled closing date. He pointed out the means to pay for the
purchase would need to be determined by the closing date and the seller is
anxious to sell before the end of 2012 .
   City Manager Thomas outlined three ways for the City to borrow money:
•      Obligation bonds; normally for amounts $10 million or more
•      USDA loan
•      Installment purchase financing
   City Manager Thomas discussed a short-term alternative strategy for payment
of the proposed purchase:
•      Use of unrestricted fund balances in Water/Sewer/Electric funds
•      Use of unrestricted fund balances in General Fund
•      Exclusive of desired reserve balance available for disasters
•      Replenish fund balances by disposing of assets; i.e. former site of the
wastewater treatment facility
   Mayor Howard discussed four (4) separate statements of interest to purchase
the wastewater treatment facility. He added the Building Improvements Committee
would like to discuss, at some time in the future, appointment of a committee
or foundation to look at options for the future use of the current City Hall.
   Responding to a question by Alderman Karn, Mayor Howard estimated 30 to 60
days after closing for transition of the Police, Code Enforcement and Building
Inspections offices into 1029 N. Howe Street. He stated the relocation of
Administrative offices onto the second floor could be as late as 2016 but a
significant amount of money would be realized for the City through lease
payments by Wells Financial during that interval.
   Alderman Barnes questioned if future needs of the City had been considered.
Mayor Howard displayed an overhead view of the area and discussed potential
future purchase of surrounding properties when they become available.
   Mayor Howard and Alderman Adams both emphasized the recommendation of the
Building Improvement Committee was on the table for consideration of the Board
but a vote was not expected until all members had sufficient time to review the
purchase agreement.
   Alderman Poole thanked the Committee and staff for the detailed information
presented. She expressed her opinion the Board has an opportunity to improve
working conditions for city employees and a decision should be made as soon as
possible.
   Mayor Howard asked for questions from the audience. No one had any questions
or comments. Further consideration of the recommendation was scheduled for a
workshop December 6, 2012.
IV.   Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Coring to add consideration of
holiday bonuses for city employees to the agenda. Vote unanimous.
   Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to give City employees a
holiday bonus; full-time employees $175, part-time employees $125.
Discussion:
   City Manager Thomas questioned if a minimum hourly threshold for part-time
employees would apply for receipt of the bonus. Alderman Poole indicated
applicable employment laws would govern issuance of the bonuses.
   Vote unanimous.
   Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Coring to give a holiday bonus
to the part-time employees that worked through the summer cleaning up the city.
Vote unanimous.
V.    Adjournment – 4:17 p.m.
   Alderman Coring moved to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Alderman Barnes.
Vote unanimous.
                  ___________________________________
                     Mayor
_________________________
Deputy City Clerk
DECEMBER 6, 2012
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN                          SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
DECEMBER 6, 2012                           10:00 A.M.
DOSHER HOSPITAL BOARD ROOM (Hood Building) SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole
          Buddy Barnes
          Todd Coring
          Jim Powell
          Ken Karn
    Nelson Adams
STAFF PRESENT:   Pat Thomas, City Manager
         Regina W. Alexander, MMC, NCCMC
         Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
         Robert Tucker, Director Public Services
I.   Call to Order
   Mayor Howard called the meeting to order.
II.   Invocation – Alderman Powell
   Alderman Powell welcomed everyone and Charles Drew, Pastor of Light House
Pentecostal Church delivered the invocation.
III.   Agenda Approval
   Alderman Karn moved to approve the agenda, seconded by Alderman Barnes.
   Discussion:  Alderman Powell moved to amend the agenda to include the
following items, motion seconded by Alderman Poole, vote unanimous.
   The agenda was adopted as amended upon motion of Alderman Barnes, seconded
by Alderman Karn, vote unanimous.   
      ·   Central pump station
      ·   Clean-up of the city i.e. cemeteries and mowing rights of ways
      ·   Sewer issue on East 11th Street
IV.   Potential Property Acquisition
   Mayor Howard announced that the previous recommendation from the Building
Improvements Committee provided information and documentation. He opened the
floor for questions concerning the Committee’s recommendation. Alderman Coring
questioned the current state of the Rescue Squad Building if the old fire
station and code enforcement building are torn down. He noted that previous
plans proposed upgrades to the rescue squad building. Mayor Howard stated that
this matter would be discussed during the capital project portion of the
agenda, and the City Manager will present the Building Improvement Committee’s
recommendation. Mayor Howard stated with the City not being able to afford
upgrades currently, however within 3-5 years, the Rescue Squad will move out to
the same area. This is not forgotten, but the committee did not want to co-
mingle issues.
   Alderman Powell motioned that the Board approve a proposed contract with
Manthybug, LLC for potential acquisition of building and property located at
1029 North Howe Street, seconded by Alderman Karn.  Discussion: Mayor Howard
noted that the due diligence period on the contract ends December 20 and asked
for Board’s permission to negotiate the closing on December 27th. Alderman
Barnes expressed appreciation to the committee for their efforts to bring forth
a recommendation. Alderman Coring expressed the same sentiments and asked about
the future needs of City Hall. Alderman Barnes noted that the current city hall
needs a lot of work and is not adequate to serve the needs of staff.
Renovations would have to be brought into compliance with N.C. State standards.
Mayor Howard noted that a citizens committee would be appointed to assist with
this endeavor. Alderman Powell noted that renovation of city hall would have to
be current with today’s standards i.e. new roof, electrical and HVAC work. No
further discussion, roll call vote on the motion.
                Powell, yes (6 affirmative votes, motion passed)
    Coring yes
      Adams, yes
      Karn, yes
      Poole, yes
      Barnes, yes
   Mayor Howard stated if the Board elected to purchase the building, it will
have to be paid for and if financing is preferred, it will take time to get
authorization from the Local Government Commission, or the Board may elect to
pay for the building with unrestricted funds. Another option is to consider a
bond issue, which could be more expensive than alternatives mentioned. The city
could also borrow the money if the Board does not wish to use unrestricted
funds.
Potential Sale of Real Property – Waste Water Treatment Plant Property
   City Manager Thomas explained three standard options available to a
municipality to dispose of real property i.e. (a) advertisement for sealed
bids, G.S. 160A-268, (b) negotiated offer, advertisement and upset bid,
G.S.160A-269 and (3) public auction, G.S. 160A-270. It the Board decides to
dispose of the wastewater treatment property, it will need to select a method
of disposition.
   Mayor Howard stated if the Board authorizes that the wastewater treatment
property be sold, the City cannot sell it until due diligence is done and
presented back to the Board at the December 10 meeting. He asked the Board’s
position on the property.
   Alderman Poole recommended selling the wastewater treatment property because
it is no longer beneficial to the City.
   Alderman Barnes stated the property is not accessible to the public.
   Question from Alderman Karn, Mayor Howard responded by estimating the market
value between $2.5- 3 million dollars with approximately 2.5 acres of land.
   Alderman Coring suggested cleaning the property up before putting it on the
market for sale.
   Alderman Adams noted if the property is sold, proceeds should be designated
to pay for the new building.
   Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Barnes to authorize City Manager
Thomas and the Building Improvements Committee to dispose of the wastewater
treatment property. Alderman Coring asked that the motion include cleanup of
the property. The vote of approval was unanimous.
   Mr. Thomas stated prior to closing on the new property, the City will need
to confirm financing with a budget amendment which will be included on the
December 10 meeting agenda.
   Alderman Powell commended the City Manager for his diligence in locating the
property for a new city hall.
VI. Agenda Amendments:
   City Cleanup Process: Alderman Powell stated funds were allocated for part-
time laborer to assist in city clean up during the summer, with excellent
results. The part time laborers have worked the maximum number of hours for the
year (1000 hours) and it would be January before they could be brought back. He
discussed with some of the board members about bringing one or two part-timers
back permanently, which could also be floaters in other departments. He
explained that with a slow economy, he is not an advocate for sub-contracting
city work at this time. City Manager Thomas announced that the City has already
issued a contract for right of way mowing and cemetery clean up.
   Alderman Adams stated customarily before a contract is issued, it has been
sanctioned by the Board of Aldermen. City Manager Thomas stated that it is a
local contractor, which comes with excellent recommendations from fellow board
members. Alderman Adams stated that his position has been not to sub-contract
city right-of-way mowing because this has been done before, and contractors
only perform work that is specified in their contract. Part time employees can
perform various jobs assigned. City Manager Thomas stated the agreement was
entered into by purchase order, which was below the formal bid threshold, and
the low bidder is a company, which has excellent references and hires local
people. (Green man) Alderman Coring echoed the same sentiments. City Manager
Thomas noted that the budget included contract work. Alderman Barnes noted that
the owner of the company lives in Southport and does a good job. City Manager
Thomas stated that it is a nine-month contract.
Alderman Adams asked that the record reflect his opposition to contracting city
mowing.
    Alderman Coring questioned if there were other contracts that the Board was
not aware of and questioned cleaning. City Manager Thomas acknowledged that the
city has a cleaning contract for some of the buildings i.e. City Hall and the
Visitor’s Center.
   Mayor Howard stated that the City has a commitment to keep the city cleaned.
Central Pump Station
   Alderman Powell briefed the Board on his involvement with the Central Pump
station after being approached by some of the Board members. Gary Johnson of
NPR was consulted, and he proposed to discuss this matter. Mayor Howard asked
that the Wastewater Committee meet with the City Manager for discussion and
place this matter on the December 10  agenda.
11th Street Sewer Issue Mrs. Vernell Salmon
   Alderman Powell stated that this matter was assigned to staff in October for
a recommendation. City Manager Thomas stated field-testing has been performed
on sewer services and the situation on East 11th Street is not an isolated
issue, however; this item will be placed on the December 10th agenda for
discussion with options outlined for Board consideration.
   Alderman Powell asked if the City had an ordinance stating when sewer is
installed, that septic tanks will no longer be allowed in the City. City
Manager Thomas noted that there is an ordinance that indicates if there are
properties, which is based on distance from sewer; it may be relieved when not
practical to provide this service.
   Mayor Howard reminded the Board that bids would be received on the
demolition of the fire department and code enforcement building, which the
Board previously authorized the Building Improvement Committee to execute the
contracts. Mayor Howard stated the Board might wish to consider leaving the
Code Enforcement Building intact for consideration of installing a public
restroom facility. Comments were solicited from the Board. There was none.
Charles Dickens Festival
   Mayor Howard suggested recognizing the Brunswick Arts Council at the
December 10 meeting. Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to
recognize the Brunswick County Arts Council for staging the production of a
Charles Dickens Christmas in the City of Southport on November 30-December 1.
Vote unanimous.
Discussion of Potential Capital Projects
   The Board in discussion with City Manager Thomas reviewed a list of
potential capital projects and factors relating to projects as a preliminary
goal and priority setting that will occur in the FY 13-14 budget process.
   Mayor Howard suggested if there are unfinished items, a workshop is held to
discuss these items in addition to the January Retreat.
   Discussed were the following projects by City Manager Thomas
   ·   Workspace Improvements for several departments i.e. Rescue Squad
   Project Description:  Acquisition or construction of modern, adequate
workspace for the operation of the Police, Planning/Code Enforcement, Finance,
Administration and Rescue Departments. Mr. Thomas stated that the Building
Committee discussed capital improvements of the Rescue Squad. The Rescue Squad
needs to be in a central location because most of their calls are from Dosher
Hospital northward. If the Rescue Squad remains in the current location for an
indefinite period, then the committee would consider a phased or complete
approach for improvements to their building or relocation. In speaking with the
Rescue Squad Chief, they would be better off in a more central location. It was
agreed upon with the existing building and adjoining space, that it would be
sufficient with some interior improvements until the City can relocate the
squad. Improvements can be made at a lesser cost than originally estimated.
   City Manager asked if the Board wished to discuss other aspects of the space
improvements plan. It was discussed briefly the prioritization for the space
study.
·   Waterfront Improvements
City Manager Thomas stated in order to develop a feasible plan; the city will
need to consider stakeholder participation, will the affected people buy into
the proposal, and riparian rights will need to be considered. He explained that
the unprotected river frontage is limited for some uses due to wave action and
current, consideration may need to be given on how to conserve the waterfront
due to erosion issues. The waterfront improvements will need to be accompanied
by a waterfront conservation plan due to erosion and waterfront improvement
projects will be subject to regulations and permitting under CAMA, US Army Corp
of Engineers and Division of Water Quality. He asked that the Board consider
specific objectives for waterfront improvements i.e. improved recreation for
residents, promotion of tourism, economic development, water quality, etc.
which will assist in developing the process. Mayor Howard recommended an
execution plan with time line. Mayor Howard questioned whether a study would be
done in house or will the Board consider hiring someone that can lead the
process in order to have stakeholder involvement i.e. citizens and businesses.
Mayor Howard noted that staff is capable of getting this project accomplished,
but the question is whether or not staff has the time. He asked that a timeline
be developed for January and allow staff to look at outside sources to assist
with the project. Alderman Karn and others agreed that execution of the plan is
important.
Yacht Basin Property Acquisition
       Board members have been meeting with First Bank in discussion about
acquisition of 2.02 acres of property in the Yacht Basin for future
development. Acquiring this property is related to potential waterfront
improvement initiatives and would potentially improve the City’s ability to a)
improve public waterfront access in the Yacht Basin, b) resolve storm-water and
tidal flooding issues, and c) encourage appropriate development on adjoining
properties. If the city acquires this property, Mr. Thomas noted that it could
be a significant boost in the Yacht Basin for future development, which would
be an important adjunct to the downtown area. Some possible funding sources:
   ·   CAMA Access Grants (local match)
   ·   Occupancy tax revenue
   ·   Partnership with community organizations
   ·   EDA Grants
   ·   Clean Water Management Grants
   ·   Assessment of storm water improvements benefiting properties
   Mayor Howard requested staff and the Planning Board look at the area and
insure that it is properly zoned to insure that surrounding properties are
protected, possibly look at an overlay area.
   Alderman Karn asked if a tidal study had been performed in the yacht basin
area. No Board member was aware of a previous study. Alderman Karn conveyed
that it is a difficult issue to solve, City Manager Thomas agreed while stating
that is not impossible. Alderman Karn asked if it would make it easier to
acquire only the waterfront property. City Manager Thomas recommended acquiring
it all.
   ·   Underground Electrical Facilities
   Mr. Thomas reported that the City is working with Brunswick Electric
Membership Corporation (BEMC) on its new multi-year plan for improvements to
the electrical system. Emphasis has been placed on the conversion of the
municipal electric distribution system from overhead to underground to a)
improve reliability, b) reduce storm related outages and c) improve community
appearance. The Plan will be presented to the Board in January. The goal is to
shift emphasis from pole replacement and begin to move facilities underground.
The six-year plan proposes allocation of capital funds from electrical system
revenues. The Board will need to consider some policy decisions such as when
the city converts to underground, will the resident or City pay to alter the
service to the building, which will cost approximately $1200. Who pays, the
City, the customer or is the cost shared. He communicated that pad mount
transformers will have to be considered for commercial areas in order to
service underground in the downtown area and location placement. In discussion,
Alderman Poole noted if the City does not have mandatory hook-up,
undergrounding will not succeed. Proposed cost for undergrounding:
2012-2013     $106,700
2013-2014 $126,604
2014-2015 $209,538
2015-2016 $228,598
2016-2017 $209,942
2017-2018 $160,805
   ·   Pedestrian Transportation Improvements
   The objectives of this project is to improve pedestrian access to key
destinations, safety for pedestrians and users of handicapped mobility devices
and eliminate obstacles to use existing sidewalks by handicapped persons. There
are some places in the city where ramps were not constructed to modern
standards and handicapped individuals get stuck. The City did get a grant for a
pedestrian plan, funding will be received to implement safe routes to school
sidewalks project, appropriate Powell Bill funds annually for pedestrian
improvements and request NCDOT installation of sidewalks on all, new or
improved facilities. Some key issues for consideration is whether the city
should have more input in review process insisting that pedestrian connections
between neighborhoods and key destinations. Should the City consider developing
off road pedestrian routes in areas where on-road facilities may be not
feasible or more expensive, which may be easier in some situations. Potential
funding sources: a) safe routes to school grants, b) Powell bill funds, and c)
assessments to adjoining properties
   ·   City Dock Facilities Improvements
City Manager Thomas showed an area photograph outlining the city dock. Some
areas appear to be outside of the City’s deed boundaries, which could
complicate the permitting process for improvements to reconstruct or expand the
dock facilities. Additions to the dock will require acquisition of riparian
rights or partnership with the State department that controls the track of land
on the marsh side of the City dock. This could result in collaborative rights
with the State to make improvements to the yacht basin. Alderman Barnes
recommended the City Manager speak with former Alderman Donnie Potter because
he once had maps and information on the Yacht Basin.
Mr. Thomas noted safety and maintenance issues, which need to be addressed to
minimize risk for boat slip renters and the public, improve the quality of
facility and usability by upgrading, and offer hospitality to transient
boaters. He suggested possibly the following sequence:
   ·    safety improvements,
   ·    dredging of the dock area,
   ·    addition of transient docks spaces,
   ·    reconstruction of dock, possibly to a floating dock.
The deed issue will have to be addressed with possible collaboration with the
State.
   Mr. Thomas told the Board that some of the key issues are:
   a) Does the facility generate sufficient revenue for major capital
expenditures, b) how important is the need to provide additional transient
docking facilities. Funding sources are: a) boat slip rentals which bring in
$23,200 annually, b) boating infrastructure grants for transient docking of
large vessels, c) occupancy tax for waterfront improvements, if obtained
   Other issues cited were: a) the long waiting list for dock rentals and the
need for a policy decision whether city residents should be given priority in
assignment of available boat slips, b) should unauthorized dock attachments be
removed, and c) should measures be taken to limit abuse of limited parking
areas. He cited possible funding sources such as boat slip rental fees which
totals $23,200 annually, boating infrastructure grant (BIG) for transient
docking of large vessels (26 feet), or occupancy tax for waterfront
improvements, if authority obtained through special legislation.
   Alderman Adams asked for clarification about the rate differential for city
residents and assumed that priority was given to city residents for dock rental
during budget workshops. City Manager Thomas noted only rates were addressed
during the budget meetings. He stated that the waiting list will be reviewed
and cleaned up.
   Alderman Barnes motioned, seconded by Alderman Poole to give priority to
city residents for city boat slips. Discussion: Alderman Adams stated no
commitments should be made without at least a 2 day study, and he does not wish
to act spontaneous, because there are other actions that may need to be
considered. Alderman Barnes withdrew the motion.
   Mayor Howard asked the Committee comprised of Aldermen Poole, Barnes and
Coring to meet with the City Manager to develop a written policy and present to
the Board for consideration at the next regular scheduled meeting.
   Alderman Barnes stated the city dock is for small boats, and he will not be
in favor of upgrading the city dock to the point that it dramatically increases
rent. The City dock does not have the amenities as other marinas and improving
revenue potential is not one of his priorities, while believing that $23,200 is
sufficient to spend annually for maintenance improvements.
   Alderman Coring asked about some of the docks being sub-leased. City Manager
Thomas noted that this is being monitored and changes have been made.
   Alderman Barnes addressed same cars parking continuous near the city dock.
Alderman Poole noted that the docks are for public access and not limited to
usage by people that rent boat slips.
   Alderman Karn suggested before improvements are made to determine if the
City proposes to upgrade for current users or to increase revenue source. Mayor
Howard stated after the committee makes it recommendation, this can be
discussed further.
9th Street Park
   City Manager Thomas reported that the property is smaller than the former
Steven’s Park property and is divided by another property, which limits the
city’s potential use design. However, there is a possibility the city can talk
with the property owner of the surrounding property (Bald Head Island Ltd.) for
property exchange or joint development of a park facility. The school system
has also expressed a desire for park facilities for use by the school, but
funding is not known at this time. The city has not set aside funds for park
development or grant matches. He stated that operation and maintenance of
another park will increase operating expenses and the city has not developed a
comprehensive park and recreation plan or a park master plan to support grant
applications. Potential funding sources are a PARTF Grant which requires 50%
match, contributions in lieu of park land dedication by sub-dividers and
participation by Bald Head Island and/or school system.
   Mayor Howard stated that he communicated with owners of the property and
they are aware of the city’s desire to get the property connected. The city is
working on their schedule and asked for diligence by the Board before forcing
the issue.
   Alderman Adams stated his understanding and the sensitivity of the request,
but there is a mandate from citizens wanting ball park and encouraged the Board
not to drop the ball. Mayor stated this is another area of tax duplication,
where the county may be considered for a source of funding.
Cemetery Improvements
   City Manager Thomas asked the Board if they wished to continue driveway
paving in Northwood Cemetery, replacement of older fencing and wooden row
markers with more durable markers. He explained that there is no fund or other
source of revenue to continue this work and the only source of funds is the
general fund. The City Manager asked the Board to what extent should the City
conduct maintenance or make capital improvements on properties that are not
municipally owned, which would be a policy decision.
   Alderman Barnes asked if the city has responsibility to mow property that it
does not own. Mayor Howard stated that the cemeteries house the City’s heritage
and it is a moral obligation. In his opinion, the City needs to do what it has
to legally to maintain the cemeteries. Alderman Powell stated that this was
decided in February. Alderman Adams stated that it is a City practice to take
care of the cemeteries. He also suggested paving another road in Northwood
Cemetery. Mayor Howard stated that establishing a Foundation would be a good
source of funds and possibly appointing a committee to look into this at a
later date. Alderman Coring asked that the wooden poles in the cemetery be
removed or changed because some have fallen over and car doors are bumped when
opened. He recommended getting input from Greg White, owner of Newnam & White
Funeral Home.
Adjournment – 12:38
   No further business, Alderman Coring motioned for adjournment, seconded by
Alderman Karn, vote unanimous.
                           ______________________
                            Mayor
__________________________
Clerk
DECEMBER 13, 2012
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
DECEMBER 13, 2012 6:00 p.m.
CITY HALL         SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:       Mayor Robert D. Howard
          Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Buddy Barnes, Todd Coring
          Jim Powell, Ken Karn and Nelson Adams
STAFF PRESENT:   Pat Thomas, City Manager
         Regina W. Alexander, MMC, NCCMC
         Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
         Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
         Robert Tucker, Director Public Services
         Jim Philyaw, Finance Director
         Jerry Dove, Police Chief
I.   Call to Order – Mayor Robert Howard
   Mayor Robert Howard called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
II.   Welcome & Invocation – Alderman Powell
   Alderman Powell welcomed everyone to the meeting.
   Chief Dove pronounced the invocation.
III.   Consent Agenda
   Alderman Powell motioned to approve the consent agenda with the noted
change, seconded by Alderman Poole, vote unanimous.
   ·   Regular meeting minutes
   ·   Committee reports
   ·   Department reports
   ·   Fire Department Roster for the year
   ·   Rescue Squad Officers
   ·   Resolution in support of Clean Water Management Trust Funding
A Resolution Supporting 2013-2015 Funding for the North Carolina Clean Water
Management Trust Fund
Whereas the 1996 General Assembly established the Clean Water Management Trust
Fund to provide an innovative and non-regulatory approach to the protection and
restoration of the surface waters all across the state; and
Whereas the Clean Water Management Trust Fund is a non-regulatory program
established to help meet infrastructure needs of municipalities and counties,
restore degraded surface water, protect watersheds, increase recreational
opportunities, and enhance quality of life in this state, all critical
components for communities to obtain a competitive edge in their economic
development; and
Whereas the Clean Water Management Trust Fund has funded 452 infrastructure
projects to assist North Carolina communities balance infrastructure needs with
environmental protection and to help struggling communities become self reliant
with future infrastructure needs; and
Whereas infrastructure needs across the state addressing drinking water,
wastewater, and storm water are estimated at $16.6 billion between 2005 and
2030; and
Whereas  the Clean Water Management Trust Fund has leveraged more than
$1billion of private, local and federal funds to support projects; and
Whereas the General Assembly has reduced funding for the Clean Water Management
Trust Fund by 78 percent since 2010; and
Whereas  limited funding for the Clean Water Management Trust Fund left 88
percent of 2012 critical local needs unmet; and
Whereas our economic vitality, health and ability to sustain ourselves and the
natural environment all rely on clean water; and
Whereas surface water must be protected to ensure sufficient drinking water
supply for the state’s growing industrial base and population; and
Whereas, Clean Water Management Trust Fund has provided grants to the City of
Southport to do one or more of the following: to protect, restore or enhance
surface water quality for the benefit of the state’s agriculture, military,
recreation and tourism economies and to protect our natural heritage for the
benefit of all North Carolinians;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN OF THE CITY OF
SOUTHPORT THAT THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT SUPPORTS THE CLEAN WATER MANAGEMENT TRUST
FUND AND URGES THAT THE FUND RECEIVE AN INCREASE IN RECURRING FUNDING FROM THE
GOVERNOR AND THE NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL ASSEMBLY FOR THE 2013-2015 BIENNIAL
BUDGET.
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, December 13,
2012.
S/ Robert D. Howard
Attest:
S/Regina Alexander, City Clerk
·   Resolution in Memory of Jimmy Splawn
·   Resolution in Appreciation of Downtown Southport Inc.
·   Resolution in Appreciation of Brunswick County Arts Council, Charles
Dickens Festival
IV.   Approval of Regular Agenda
   Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Coring to approve the regular
meeting agenda with the following amendments. Vote unanimous.
·   Carry-over of annual leave for the City Clerk
·   Update on Safe Haven, Alderman Barnes
V.   Presentations and Recognitions
   A. Resolution in Memory of Jimmy Splawn presented by Mayor Robert Howard to
Mrs. Joyce Splawn, spouse of deceased.
Resolution In Memory Of James F. Splawn
WHEREAS, the City of Southport Mayor, Board of Aldermen and employees note with
sympathy the passing of James F. Splawn, and
WHEREAS, Jimmy as he was affectionately known was a former employee of the City
of Southport; and
WHEREAS, he was hired November 19, 1973 and retired as Supervisor in the
Electric Department March 31, 1995, and
WHEREAS, we mourn his loss and extend to the Splawn family this expression of
our condolences; and
WHEREAS, we sincerely hope that you will be comforted by the memories of your
loved one and his life.
NOW, THEREFOR BE IT RESOLVED, that Mayor Robert D. Howard and the Board of
Aldermen convey to the Splawn Family this Resolution In Memory of Jimmy
evidencing our sympathy; and
FURTHER, RESOLVE that a copy of this Resolution be presented to the Splawn
Family and made a part of the official records of the City on this 13th day of
December 2012.
                                          S/Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:
S/Regina W. Alexander, City Clerk
   B. Resolution in Appreciation for Community Contributions – Downtown
Southport, Inc. Presented by Alderman Buddy Barnes.
A RESOLUTION HONORING CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE COMMUNITY BY DOWNTOWN SOUTHPORT,
INC.
   WHEREAS Downtown Southport, Inc. is a non-profit organization dedicated to
preserving the heritage and charm of Southport; and
   WHEREAS Downtown Southport, Inc. (DSI) encourages and supports preservation
projects, cultural activities, educational programs, tourism, and responsible
economic growth in the downtown area; and
   WHEREAS Downtown Southport, Inc. has, since its inception in 2005, been a
major contributor to making Southport a vital and vibrant year-round community
for Southport citizens and guests, through programs and actions such as:
·   Co-sponsorship and coordination, with the Kiwanis Club, of the annual
Southport Spring Festival,
·   Sponsorship and coordination of the Southport Waterfront Market,
·   Co-sponsorship with the Cape Fear Yacht Club of the annual Christmas
Flotilla
·   Sponsorship and coordination of the annual Winterfest Craft Festival,
·   Provision of funding for the advertising and marketing of Winterfest,
·   Co-sponsorship with the Wooden Boat Show Committee of the Southport Wooden
Boat Show each fall,
·   Co-sponsorship with the Southport Garden Club of the bi-annual tour of
Southport gardens
·   Co-sponsorship with City of Southport Tourism of the annual Pyrates
Invasion,
·   Provision of funding to support other tourism development projects in
Southport;
WHEREAS Downtown Southport, Inc. has become a strong, vital, and sustaining
contributor to the quality of life in Southport and to the prosperity of the
community, especially Southport’s downtown area;
BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen that the volunteer leaders and members
of Downtown Southport, Inc. are hereby commended and recognized for DSI’s
strong and sustained commitment to the vitality and uniqueness of Southport and
for Downtown Southport, Inc.’s outstanding and excellent contributions to the
betterment of the community; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Board of Aldermen offers its deepest
appreciation and thanks, on behalf of a grateful community, for Downtown
Southport, Inc.’s generous and outstanding performance as a Community
Institution of Excellence in Southport.
                           s/Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:
s/Regina Alexander, City Clerk
   C. Resolution in Appreciation of Charles Dickens Festival – Brunswick County
Arts council presented by Alderman Poole.
RESOLUTION
OF APPRECIATION TO THE BRUNSWICK COUNTY
ARTS COUNCIL
“Charles Dickens Festival”
WHEREAS, the historic and beautiful City of Southport hosted the Brunswick
County Arts Council November 30-December 1, 2012, and
WHEREAS, the Brunswick County Arts Council presented the production of “Charles
Dickens Christmas Festival,” and
WHEREAS, the festival attracted local residents, neighboring communities and
visitors to historic downtown Southport to celebrate the 200th birthday of this
beloved English novelist, considered one of the greatest literary giants of the
Victorian era, and
WHEREAS, the eclectic productions and activities educated visitors about the
traditional Old English Victorian Christmases; and
WHEREAS, staging a festival of this magnitude could not be accomplished without
hundreds of volunteers who inspire, educate and promote the arts and cultural
interests of Brunswick County.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED,  I, Mayor Robert D. Howard, and the Southport
Board of Aldermen commend the Brunswick County Arts Council and its many
volunteers for an outstanding production of “Charles Dickens Christmas
Festival,” and wish much success for future productions.
ADOPTED, this 13th day of December 2012.
                     S/ Mayor, Robert D. Howard
         
S/Alderman Buddy Barnes            S/Alderman Mary Ellen Poole
S/Alderman Todd Coring            S/Alderman Nelson E. Adams
S/Alderman Ken Karn            S/Alderman James Powell, III
Recess: 6:35 – 6:40 p.m.
VI.   Public Comments
   Mr. Woody Wilson of 502 West Brunswick Street, and Chairman of the Christmas
Flotilla, told the Board that 17 boats initially planned to participate, but 13
were decorated and prepared to be on parade but due to fog, low visibility and
safety reasons, the Flotilla was canceled without a make- up date. He told the
Board of significant interest from people outside of Brunswick County, and in
the future they will plan for a make-up date.
VII.   Unfinished Business
   Attorney Isenberg told the Board that the original closing date was changed
to December 28th on the 1029 North Howe Street Building. The seller wishes to
list the names of the two leases and requested written acknowledgement that the
2012 maintenance fee belongs to the seller, which is a reimbursement for the
2012 expenses. He stated that these were minor addendums and do not change
anything else in the contract and requested approval from the Board to
authorize the Mayor to initial the changes. Alderman Adams moved to authorize
the Mayor to sign the addendum, seconded by Alderman Poole. Vote unanimous.
VIII.   New Business
   A. Budget Amendment – Purchase of Property
      Alderman Powell moved to approve budget amendment #4 appropriating $1.8
million from unrestricted fund balances from the general and electric funds for
the purchase of property located at 1029 North Howe Street. Motion seconded by
Alderman Karn and the vote of approval was unanimous.
BUDGET AMENDMENT #4
FISCAL 2012-2013 BUDGET ORDINANCE
   WHEREAS the City of Southport desires to purchase real property located at
1029 North Howe Street in Southport, and additional funds need to be
appropriated to effect the planned purchase; and
   WHEREAS there are sufficient funds in the General Fund unrestricted fund
balance to proceed with the purchase without incurring debt; and
   WHEREAS the budget ordinance for the FY 2012-2013 fiscal year needs to be
amended to reflect the revenues and appropriations necessary to carry out this
capital expenditure;
   BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2012-2013 shall be
amended as follows:
GENERAL FUND
Revenues                        Previous Amount      Increase      Amended
Amount
Fund Balance Appropriated            $100,400      $1,800,000    $1,900,400
Appropriations
Non-Departmental                      $418,200    $1,800,000    $2,218,200
(Transfer to Building Improvements Capital Project Fund increased from $133,200
to $1,933,200)
BUILDING IMPROVEMENTS CAPITAL PROJECT FUND
Revenues                        Previous Amount      Increase      Amended
Amount
Transfer from General Fund                   $133,200      
$1,800,000      $1,933,200
Expenditures                            $133,200      $1,800,000      
$1,933,200               
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session on December 13,
2012.
                                                                                                   S/
Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:
S/Regina Alexander, City Clerk         
   B.   Affiliation with Coalition of Nuclear Communities
   City Manager Thomas apprised the Board of a coalition that is made up of 103
communities from 31 states, which host a nuclear plant. They proposed to seek
legislation from Congress to provide on-site storage of spent fuel rods and
inquired as to whether the City of Southport wishes to participate in the
Coalition of Nuclear Communities.
   Alderman Coring motioned, seconded by Alderman Powell to approve the City of
Southport’s participation in the Coalition of Nuclear communities. The vote of
approval was unanimous.
   C.   Proposed Policy – Fort Johnston Property Uses
   The following resolution was presented for Board consideration and will be
placed on the January agenda regarding proposed uses of Fort Johnston property.
A RESOLUTION REGARDING
PROPOSED USES OF FORT JOHNSTON PROPERTY
   WHEREAS the Fort Johnston property was donated to the City of Southport with
the intention that it be used for public park and recreational purposes; and
   WHEREAS the City’s use and management of the property remains subject to
general oversight by the U.S. Department of Interior and the North Carolina
Department of Cultural Resources; and
   WHEREAS the central and attractive location of Fort Johnston makes it an
attractive location for a wide variety of potential uses, both temporary and
permanent; and
   WHEREAS the City of Southport has a responsibility to give thorough and
deliberate consideration to all potential uses of the Fort Johnston property,
especially those that involve the installation of structures or structural
additions on the site;
   BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport that the
following policy shall normally apply to any proposed uses of the Fort Johnston
property that involve the installation of- or additions to permanent structures
on the site:
1. First Reading. The proposed use shall be provided, described, and/or
illustrated in detail and in written form, to the satisfaction of the Board of
Aldermen, and the requested use shall be presented at a regular meeting (or a
special meeting called for that purpose) of the Board. This presentation and
description, which may be required to be presented in a form prescribed by the
Board or City Manager, shall constitute the first reading of the proposed use.
If the Board agrees by majority vote, upon first reading, that it desires to
further consider the proposed use, the proposed use shall then be sent to any
appropriate agencies – including the State Historic Preservation Office – for
review and comment.
2. Second Reading. After receipt of any agency comments, the proposed use of
the property shall be scheduled for second reading by the Board of Aldermen,
which shall take place at a regular meeting unless otherwise advertised. The
second reading shall normally take place at least three weeks following the
first reading. On the occasion of the second reading, the proposed use shall be
advertised for public comments. After receipt of public comments, the Board
may, if it desires, discontinue consideration of the proposed use or may give
preliminary approval, by majority vote, to the proposed use and schedule the
proposal for third reading.
3. Third Reading. After its initial decision to give further consideration to
the proposal, the receipt of agency and public comments, and a second decision
to give preliminary approval to the proposed use, the Board may give final
consideration to the proposed use at a third reading, which shall take place at
a regular meeting unless otherwise advertised. The third reading shall normally
take place at least three weeks after the second reading. On that occasion, the
Board may elect to discontinue consideration of the proposed use, carry the
matter over for further consideration, or give final approval to the proposed
use.
4. General. This policy is intended to describe the minimum process that should
be followed in considering permanent uses of the Fort Johnston property and is
not intended to inhibit any additional information requests, reviews,
investigations, opportunities for comment, or other measures considered
necessary by the Board of Aldermen in order to give thorough and deliberate
consideration to proposed uses of the property. In rare or extraordinary
circumstances involving opportunities or emergencies with deadlines beyond the
Board’s control, the Board may vary this policy as needed, while making every
effort to preserve its overall purpose and intent.
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, December 13,
2012.
               S/Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:
S/Regina Alexander, City Clerk
   Mayor Howard recommended that this matter be placed on the agenda for the
next workshop.
   D.   Annexation Petition – Dr. Christopher Moshoures
   The Board acknowledged an annexation petition from Dr. Christopher Moshoures
to annex 1.51 acres located at Vision Square, 1620 North Howe Street. Alderman
Powell motioned, seconded by Alderman Barnes to direct the Clerk to investigate
the sufficiency of the petition, which was done. The vote of approval was
unanimous.
Resolution Directing Clerk to Investigate Petition Received Under G.S. 160A-
58.1
WHEREAS, a petition requesting annexation of an area described in said petition
was received on December 13, 2012 by the Southport Board of Aldermen, and
WHEREAS, G.S. 160A-58.2 provides that the sufficiency of the petition shall be
investigated by the City Clerk before further annexation proceedings may take
place, and
WHEREAS, the Southport Board of Aldermen for the City of Southport deems it
advisable to proceed in response to this request for annexation.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport
that:
The City Clerk is hereby directed to investigate the sufficiency of the above-
described petition and to certify as soon as possible to the Board of Aldermen
the result of her investigation.
THIS 13th day of December 2012.
                     S/Robert D. Howard
ATTEST:
S/Regina W. Alexander, Clerk
   The Board having received the certification of sufficiency, Alderman Barnes
moved, seconded by Alderman Powell to adopt the resolution calling for a public
hearing on the proposed annexation January 10, 2013. The vote of approval was
unanimous.
RESOLUTION SCHEDULING PUBLIC HEARING ON PROPOSED ANNEXATION – MOSHOURES
PROPERTY
   WHEREAS the City of Southport has received a petition from Dr. Christopher
J. Moshoures, Optometrist, P.A. for the voluntary annexation of 1.51 acres of
land and improvements located at 1620 North Howe Street into the boundaries of
the city; and
   WHEREAS the Board of Aldermen has caused the city clerk to investigate the
sufficiency of the petition under the provisions of North Carolina General
Statute 160A-31, and the clerk has certified the sufficiency of the petition;
and
   WHEREAS G.S. 160A-31(c) requires that a public hearing be held on the
question of annexation, at which interested persons may comment on the proposed
annexation;
   BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport:
1. A public hearing shall be held on Thursday, January 10, 2013, at 6:00 p.m.
on the question of annexing 1.51 acres of property owned by Dr. Christopher
Moshoures, Optometrist, P.A. at 1620 North Howe Street.
2. That the area proposed for annexation is described as follows: See Exhibit A
3. Notice of the public hearing shall be published once in the State Port Pilot
at least 10 days prior to the date of the public hearing.
   Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, December 13,
2012.
         S/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:
S/ Regina Alexander, City Clerk
   E.   Right of Way Use Application – Mary H. Childs
   The Board acknowledged a right of way use application from Mrs. Robert
Childs for a license for placement of a 4 cubic yard dumpster in its current
location on City right of way located on Bay Street across from the Cape Fear
Restaurant; they also propose to build an enclosure for the dumpster.
   Alderman Adams motioned, seconded by Alderman Powell that the Board of
Aldermen grant a right of way use license to Mrs. Robert Childs, finding that
(a) there will be no significant adverse effect on essential uses of the City’s
right of way and (b) private property is not reasonably available to
accommodate the dumpster, therefore, a license should be issued upon the
condition that the property owner construct an enclosure for the dumpster of a
size and manner to be approved by City staff. Discussion: Alderman Poole noted
that the new dumpster has been down sized and asked about the height of the
enclosure. Mayor Howard responded that it would be a 12 x 12 enclosure.
Alderman Coring asked if the City would oversee the type of enclosure, he
supports the policy, while concerned about visibility when cars are near the
intersection. Alderman Karn stated that there are other locations on public
property where the dumpster can be placed, but he is not against the license,
only the location. Motion passed 5 ayes, Adams, Poole, Coring, Barnes and
Powell. 1 no, Alderman Karn.
   Alderman Adams asked if other merchants have been approached concerning the
rights of way issue. City Manager Thomas stated not yet.
   F. Sewer Billings to Unconnected Properties
   Alderman Powell, Chair of the Utility Committee motioned that this matter be
deferred until January which will give staff time to present their findings
from a fog study. Motion seconded by Alderman Poole, vote unanimous.
   G. Community Building Free Use Request – Operation Marry Me Military
   The Board acknowledged a request from Vicki Potter, Community Building
Coordinator requesting that the City consider participation in a program called
“Operation Marry Me”. The cost to the City would consist of one day rental,
approximately $45-65 for 4 to 6 hours. The building would be used free of
charge on Monday, November 11, 2013 for a military wedding.
   Alderman Barnes moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to approve the request and
waive the rental fee for the one day event on November 11, 2013. Discussion:
Alderman Karn stated there are many organizations in the City worthy of this
consideration, but pays a special rate for use of the facility, and asked where
the line will be drawn with no criteria in place. Alderman Barnes stated that
he agreed, but also believes that as a community, the City should give back to
the military because they deserve this opportunity. Also, there is a
possibility the City can look at donating one free week a year. Alderman Adams
stated the Board can deal with other organizations as they make a request, and
he supports the military. Motion passed 5 ayes, Barnes, Poole, Powell, Coring
and Adams. 1 no, Karn
   H. Sale of Municipal Property – former Wastewater Treatment Plant Site
   The Board at its December 6 meeting, requested the Building Improvements
Committee develop a proposal for disposition of the former wastewater treatment
plant property. As explained by Mayor Howard, there are three standard methods
under general statutes to dispose of real property: 1) sealed bids, 2)
negotiated offer, advertisement, and upset bids, and 3) public auction. Mayor
Howard presented from the Building Improvements Committee to the Board of
Aldermen the recommendation under G.S. 160A-269, Negotiated offer,
advertisement, and upset bids to dispose of City property. Alderman Adams
motioned to accept the recommendation of the Building Improvements Committee,
seconded by Alderman Powell. Discussion: Alderman Barnes asked the City
Attorney if only one bid is received, can the Board accept a minimum offer.
Attorney Isenberg stated that the Board can accept or reject any bid offer. The
vote of approval was unanimous.
   I. Proposed Policy – Order of Priority, Boat Slip Leases
   Alderman Barnes, Chair of the Rate Review Committee presented the following
policy for consideration. Alderman Barnes moved to adopt the Order of Priority,
Boat Slip Lease Policy, seconded by Alderman Powell, vote of approval was
unanimous.
ORDER-OF-PREFERENCE POLICY
CITY DOCK BOAT SLIP RENTALS
A. Registration. All persons who are interested in renting slips at the
Southport City Dock may register their interest in a log maintained by the
City, in a department designated by the city manager. The registrant, who must
be the actual owner of the boat and who must be at least 21 years of age, shall
provide the following information to the person maintaining the registration
log: his or her name, address, telephone number, e-mail address (if available),
and information regarding any real property owned in Southport. Applications
may not be made in the name of corporations.
B. Order of Preference for Available Boat Slips. Any available boat slips shall
be offered to registrants on the waiting list in the following order of
preference:
   1. Southport residents who also own real property in Southport.
   2. All other residents of Southport
   3. Non-residents who own real property in Southport.
   4. All other non-residents.
   Within the categories of preference, preference for boat slip leases shall
be given in chronological order of registration (earliest first).
C. Accessibility of Registrants. Any person who registers in order to be
considered for a boat slip rental is responsible for keeping his or her contact
information and real property ownership status up to date with the custodian of
the registration list. When a boat slip becomes available, the city staff will
make a reasonable – but not exceptional – effort to contact the person that
should have preference. If the person who should have preference cannot be
contacted readily or does not respond in a timely manner when offered a lease
opportunity, their name will be removed from the list and the next person in
order will be contacted.
D. No Retroactivity. This policy shall not retroactively affect any person who
is already a boat slip lessee in good standing.
E. Effective Date. This policy shall be effective upon its adoption.
   Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, December 13,
2012.
IX. Other Business
   A) Annual Leave
   The Board acknowledged a request from City Clerk Alexander asking that
annual leave balance (56.5 hours) transfer over to 2013, rather than convert to
sick leave. Motion by Alderman Karn to approve the request, seconded by
Alderman Barnes, the vote of approval was unanimous.
   B) Safe Haven
   Alderman Barnes brought to the attention of the Board an article in the
newspaper about
the City hosting a celebration for release of the February 14 movie and a pre-
screening event, and questioned the origin of the article.
   City Manager Thomas told the Board that the Tourism Director is trying to
determine the kinds of positive events that can be organized with release of
the film but everything is concept and ideas and there is nothing officially
planned. If and when there is something definitive to report, the Board will be
informed.
   C) Broadcasting City Meetings
   Mayor Howard stated in trying to reach citizens and with today’s technology,
there may be an opportunity to broadcast City Council meetings via internet or
television, and asked Alderman Karn to look into ways and options including the
cost benefit of broadcasting City meetings.
   D) Building Improvement Committee
   Mayor Howard announced that bids were in for demolition of the old fire
department and code enforcement building. The City wishes to retain the fill in
portion between the fire and rescue department for use by the rescue squad. The
Committee has also asked the City Manager to work with the Architect to
determine the feasibility and cost of converting the Code Enforcement building
into public restrooms.
   E) Rob Gandy Boulevard – Alternative Road
   The Mayor announced that Aldermen Adams, Powell and he have been working to
develop a public/private partnership to get an alternative way in and out of
Southport. The State has indicated if funding is obtained, they will construct
the acceleration lane on Highway 87.
   F) Citizen Committee – Current City Hall
   Mayor Howard asked the Board to consider options for future use of the
current City Hall once vacated, while proposing to appoint a citizen committee
to evaluate the use. He asked for suggestions from Board members and who should
serve on the Committee.
   G) Building Improvement Committee
   Mayor Howard stated that the survey was received and title search completed
on the 1029 North Howe Street building. He communicated that he and City
Manager Thomas and have been in touch with the tenants. The acquisition process
is moving along and he asked that the Board recess the meeting for an update on
Thursday, December 20 at 5:30 p.m.
X. City Manager Comments
   None
XII. Board Comments
   Alderman Poole announced that the January meeting would be held at the Fire
Department.
   Alderman Powell asked about the Audit Report and noted that it was due in
October.
City Manager Thomas responded that some documents have not been provided by the
City.
   Alderman Coring reported on the success of Santa Coming to Town, which is
held annually by the Fire Department and he thanked all participants.
   Mayor Howard announced that News 14 contacted him about an interview
concerning Safe Haven and he asked Alderman Karn as Chairman of the Film
Committee to it in for the interview.
   Alderman Karn announced that the film policy is ready for review and
discussion by the Board.
XIII.   Recess – 7:50 p.m.
   Alderman Poole motioned, seconded by Alderman Barnes to recess the meeting
to 5:30 p.m. December 20, 2012. Vote unanimous.
                     _________________________________
                        Mayor
_____________________________
Clerk
DECEMBER 20, 2012
RECESSED SESSION
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN RECESSED SESSION
DECEMBER 20, 2012 5:30 p.m.
CITY HALL         SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:       Mayor Robert D. Howard
          Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Buddy Barnes, Todd Coring
         Jim Powell, Ken Karn, Nelson Adams         
STAFF PRESENT:   Pat Thomas, City Manager
         Regina W. Alexander, MMC, NCCMC
         Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
I.   Call to Order – Mayor Robert Howard
   Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
II.   Welcome & Invocation - Alderman Powell
   Alderman Powell welcomed everyone to the meeting and Pastor Charles Drew
pronounced the invocation.
III.   1029 North Howe Street Building
   Mayor Howard announced that this was the third public meeting since the
Board discussed acquiring the building at 1029 North Howe Street. 
   City Attorney Isenberg updated the Board on documents, which has been agreed
upon for signature by the seller’s attorney and himself as City Attorney. He
stated that there are no legal issues, everyone is in agreement and the
paperwork is being finalized. Documents prepared and discussed were an estoppel
certificate, warranty deed, lien waiver and closing statement.
   Mayor Howard asked for comments from the Board. All Board members stated
that they received positive comments and very few negative; however, citizens
want to know plans for the current City Hall. Mayor Howard reiterated that
every decision has been made by the Board with coordination and input from
staff. If there are concerns from the public, the Board wants to address those
concerns, and proposed that the Board recess to Wednesday, December 26, 5:30
p.m. because the City’s due diligence ends December 27. He also stated that a
committee would be appointed with citizens to get input about the current City
Hall.
Board members thanked the Building Improvements Committee and staff for their
hard work and diligence in acquiring the North Howe Street facility.
IV.   Recess – 5:30 p.m.
   Alderman Powell moved to recess the meeting to December 26 at 5:30 p.m.,
seconded by Alderman Coring, vote unanimous.
                     ___________________________
                      Mayor
_______________________________
Clerk
DECEMBER 26, 2012
MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN MINUTES
December 26, 2012
                  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
   The Southport Board of Aldermen met Wednesday, December 26, 2012, in a
session recessed from December 13 and December 20, 2012. The meeting was called
to order by Mayor Robert Howard at 5:30 p.m. In addition to Mayor Howard, those
present included Mayor Pro Tem Mary Ellen Poole, Aldermen Nelson Adams, Buddy
Barnes, Todd Coring, Ken Karn, and Jim Powell, and City Manager Patrick Thomas.
Also attending was Ed Harper of the State Port Pilot.
   Mayor Howard provided the following updates regarding the property under
consideration for purchase at 1029 North Howe Street:
·   Novant Medical, which had a first-floor lease that would expire December
31, 2013, was willing to terminate the lease February 1 and had offered to pay
50 percent of the remaining lease amount for early termination of the lease;
·   Wells Fargo Financial, which had a lease expiring December 31, 2016 plus
two five-year options, had verbally expressed a willingness to early
termination of its lease, but had not thus far offered buy-out compensation;
·   Due to the holidays, the Building Committee had had difficulty meeting
together on various issues – including the lease termination possibilities –
but had met individually on some matters throughout the holidays;
·   All of the due diligence matters related to the property had been
completed, except that a report on the condition of the roof was not in hand.
The Mayor also reported that, shortly after the December 4 recommendation with
respect to the 1029 N. Howe Street property was made public, Security Savings
Bank (SSB) representatives came forward regarding their property at 300 North
Howe Street, as well as the former PJ’s Restaurant property on West West
Street. The former was offered for sale at $1.5 million and the latter at
$475,000. Initially advised that the cost would not be viable for consideration
by the City at $1.5 million, SSB then lowered, on December 20, its asking price
for the 300 North Howe building t to $1.2 million. More recently, SSB’s Board
had agreed to offer the building for sale to the City at $1,125,000, including
all of the high-quality furniture in the building, which its representative
said had originally cost $1 million.
Due to the significant difference in cost between the 1029 North Howe building
and the 300 North Howe Building, reported the Mayor, speculative conversations
had been held between him and the city manager about the viability of placing
three departments in the 300 North Howe building and using part of the cost
savings to perform improvements to the City Hall and provide another department
with expanded space within the City Hall building. He said that a preliminary
comparison of options had been prepared, but the committee had not met to
consider that information.
The Mayor reported that he had also inquired whether the owner of the 1029
North Howe building was willing to provide a 30-day extension of the
examination and closing period, and the realtor had responded that the owner
was willing to agree to an extension.
In discussion, Aldermen Powell indicated that he liked the 1029 North Howe
building because of the greater floor space (10,000 vs. 8,300) and the
potential for developing a municipal campus. Alderman Adams agreed, citing the
benefit of placing facilities closer to the center of town. Ms. Poole reminded
that the use of public monies was involved, and said she felt an in-depth
analysis should be done on the Security Savings building, and said the Board
should maintain its focus regarding the various goals that it had for the
future. Alderman Barnes said that, since a time extension was available, the
Board owed it to the public to give fair consideration to both options.
Alderman Karn said he agreed, but thought that the objective was to locate all
of the departments in one building.
Alderman Coring asked to see the preliminary comparison that had been prepared,
and the Mayor showed several slides that provided financial information and
other information regarding the two options.
Mayor Pro Tem Poole moved (a) that the Building Improvement Committee review
and analyze information regarding the two alternatives and bring that
information and a recommendation back to the whole board for consideration and
(b) that the City obtain a 30-day extension of the examination and closing
periods for the 1029 North Howe building. The motion was seconded by Alderman
Barnes and was approved with six aye votes and no noes.
The meeting was unanimously adjourned at 6:13 p.m. on the motion of Ms. Poole
and the second of Mr. Barnes.
                     _________________________________
                        Robert Howard, Mayor
________________________________
Pat Thomas, Acting Clerk
2013
JANUARY 3, 2013
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN          SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
JANUARY 3, 2013            5:30 P.M.
FIRE STATION TRAINING ROOM SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:       Mayor Robert D. Howard
          Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Buddy Barnes, Todd Coring,
          Jim Powell, Ken Karn
ABSENT:      Alderman Nelson Adams
STAFF PRESENT:   Pat Thomas, City Manager
         Michele Windham, Deputy City Clerk
         Robert Tucker, Public Services Director
         Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
         Cindy Brochure, Tourism & Economic Development Director
         Jerry Dove, Police Chief
I.   Call to Order – 5:30 p.m.
   Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
II.   Invocation
   Alderman Poole welcomed everyone to the meeting.
   Mayor Howard delivered the invocation.
   ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Howard stated, “if any member of the Board knows of
any conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with
respect to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
III.   Report - Property Acquisition
   Alderman Powell, Chairman of the Property Improvements Committee, reported
he had nothing new to report. He indicated he would have a report at the
January 10 regular monthly meeting of the Board of Aldermen. Responding to an
inquiry from Alderman Karn, Mayor Howard stated the due diligence date on the
property acquisition of 1029 N. Howe Street is January 27 with closing
anticipated two or three days after.
IV.   Five Year Work Plan - Electric System
   Manager Thomas reported he and Robert Tucker, the Public Services Director
had been working with Brunswick Electric Membership Corporation (BEMC) to
develop a multi-year work plan for the City’s electric system, with emphasis on
converting to underground service.
   Ms. Debra Fish, BEMC, made a PowerPoint presentation of the Six Year Work
Plan FY 2012/13 - FY 2017/18 (On file in the Clerk’s Office). The presentation
detailed the service area, distribution system, power supply, existing
conditions, load and customer growth projections, conversion of the electrical
system from overhead to underground, pole replacement, right-of-way trimming,
streetlight replacement, peak load, projected energy usage, system outages,
recommended improvements, and a cost summary for the six year plan. Ms. Fish
went through each budget year’s priority and cost estimates. She displayed maps
depicting the City’s substation, poles, switches, reclosers, and feeder lines.
   Year 1      $ 340,300
   Year 2      $ 329,160
   Year 3      $ 343,875
   Year 4      $ 309,537
   Year 5      $ 318,806
   Year 6      $ 319,141
    Mr. Lewis Shaw, BEMC, discussed the City’s commitment to replace high-
pressure sodium (HPS) and metal halide (MH) streetlights with light-emitting
diode (LED) streetlights which use approximately 30% fewer watts, require less
maintenance and provide a more uniform dispersion of light.
   Mayor Howard asked staff to provide cash flow forecasting to provide the
Board with a comfort level for commitment of the funding over time.
   Responding to Alderman Karn, Mr. Tucker indicated the City does not have a
policy requiring customers to hook up to underground electrical service when it
becomes available. He advised enacting a policy. Alderman Poole agreed it
should be mandatory to hook up. Ms. Fish pointed out the cost would be $1,250
for an individual customer to hook up. When asked by Alderman Karn, Ms. Fish
speculated a payment schedule could be set up for customers to pay over time.
   6:30 - RECESS  
   6:30 - RECONVENED
V.   Policy - Proposed Uses of Fort Johnston
   Mayor Howard opened discussion for establishing a policy or procedure for
the Board’s consideration of submitted requests for use of Fort Johnston. He
pointed out that often times the request can be emotional and having a three
(3) month period to study the request would be prudent for the Board and the
applicant.   
   Alderman Coring stated his belief that the request to put a cannon on the
Fort Johnston lawn would return to the Board for consideration.
   Alderman Barnes and Poole agreed more time should be taken to consider
submittals that can get emotional.
    Alderman Poole pointed out that the three month period would provide
additional time to advertise the request and provide information to the public.
   A draft resolution and policy were provided to the Board by staff.
   Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Barnes to accept the policy for
Fort Johnston property usage as presented.
   Discussion
   Mayor Howard suggested sending the policy back to staff and the city
attorney to review the ambiguous language, revise with more specific language
and put more teeth in the policy. He pointed out an example in the following
statement: The following policy shall normally apply to any proposed uses of
the Fort Johnston property that involve the installation of structures or
additions to permanent structures on the site:  He recommended changing
normally to may be required.
   Alderman Barnes agree that additional review of the language would be
worthwhile and suggested the policy be reconsidered at the Board’s next
meeting.
   Alderman Poole withdrew the motion. She shared her opinion that “normally”
should be retained contending there could be situations that create a hardship
for preservation of the property. She suggested requiring a super majority of
the Board to make the change.
VI.   Revised Guidelines - Filming
   Alderman Karn reviewed key points of the 12 page draft City of Southport
Filming Policy and Guidelines, copy of which was provided to each Board member
as part of the agenda packet. (O n file in the Clerk’s Office.)
   Alderman Karn stated the proposed policy is based on Southport’s current
policy with input from Wilmington and Charleston, SC policies, is written as
policy guidelines to welcome and encourage film production in the community,
and allows some flexibility along with rigid requirements for enforcement and
supervision. He emphasized that any film permit issued is a contract between
the City and the production entity and carries the force of law.
   Alderman Coring suggested inclusion of the Fire Marshal for approval of
section G. General Filming Requirements 16. Pyrotechnics, Explosives, Fires per
State General Statutes. He also questioned Section F. Notifications 2.
Responsibility and F.6. Re-Notifications contending the film liaison should be
involved before the need for re-notification. Aldermen Karn suggested a
statement be included that the film liaison is responsible for oversight and
enforcement of notification by the film production.
   Alderman Barnes expressed support for Item E. Filming Permits, 5. Processing
and Approvals (d) Extended Hours which requires the film production to obtain
approval of residents in the affected areas for filming between 11:00 p.m. and
7:00 a.m. Mayor Howard suggested the wording include written approval.
   Alderman Barnes stated his appreciation for definitions of “low impact
filming,” “high impact filming,” and “street closure.”
   Mayor Howard polled the Board for their position; policy or ordinance.
   Policy:   Aldermen Karn and Coring
   Ordinance:   Aldermen Poole and Barnes
   Undecided:   Alderman Powell
   Mayor Howard shared his position for an ordinance.
   Board consensus to further consider the policy/ordinance and make available
for public input.
VII.   Cemetery Foundation(s)
   Mayor Howard opened discussion of consideration for establishing a Perpetual
Care Trust Fund for the preservation, care, upkeep and adornment of the city’s
cemeteries; i.e., Old Smithville Burying Ground, Northwood and John Smith
cemeteries.  He discussed the neglect and deterioration of the cemeteries
noting that the maintenance of the cemeteries for many years has been limited
to on/off efforts by the City and through volunteer help. He commended the
volunteer organizations while emphasizing the cemeteries must be restored to
their deserved position of dignity and beauty.  He emphasized there is no
vehicle for families with multiple generations in the cemetery to participate
in the perpetual care of the grave sites, citing his own family as an
example.  He provided a memo from himself and Alderman Poole to all Board
members outlining needed funding, fund adequacy study, ordinance consideration,
funding opportunities and management considerations.
   Responding to Alderman Karn, Mayor Howard noted that a Perpetual Care Trust
Fund is the most important factor and a starting point for a committee of
citizens and staff to begin an in-depth study with the potential to turn the
Trust Fund over to a management company, City staff or a foundation.
   Alderman Poole discussed the importance of the endeavor to assist families
that have no one left to care for grave sites.
   Alderman Barnes and Powell expressed their support.
   In answer to a question from Alderman Coring, Manager Thomas stated the
Public Services Department is responsible for cemetery maintenance and Mayor
Howard responded the cemetery on W. West Street is a private cemetery. Mayor
Howard noted private cemeteries may want to participate. Alderman Coring
suggested including a funeral director in the committee.
   From information provided by the Cemetery Superintendent, Wayne Strickland,
Manager Thomas noted that there are very few cemetery plots remaining for sale
in Northwood Cemetery.
   For Board review, Manager Thomas provided information for establishing a
cemetery foundation.
   Board consensus to hold further discussion at the January 10 regular
meeting.
VIII.   Other Business
   Alderman Poole pointed out that the January regular meeting was to be held
at the Fire Station in order to dedicate equipment. Due to a delay in delivery
of the equipment, Alderman Poole motioned, seconded by Alderman Coring to hold
the January meeting in the City Hall Aldermen Chambers. Unanimous vote; motion
carried.
   At the request of Alderman Poole, Board Consensus to keep the decorative
lights in the trees along the downtown sidewalks on indefinitely. Alderman
Poole indicated she had been contacted by citizens and business people to keep
the lights on.
IX.   Adjournment
   Alderman Poole moved to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Alderman Barnes.
Vote unanimous.
                        ___________________________
                        Mayor
______________________________
Deputy City Clerk
JANUARY 10, 2013
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN             REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
JANUARY 10, 2013              6:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS (CITY HALL) SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Todd Coring, Ken Karn, Mary Ellen Poole, Buddy Barnes,
         Nelson Adams, Jim Powell
STAFF PRESENT:   Patrick Thomas, City Manager
         Regina W. Alexander, MMC, NCCMC
         Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
         Bonnie Bray, Finance Director
         Jerry Dove, Chief of Police
         Cindy Brochure, Tourism & Economic Development Director
         Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
I.   Call to Order - 6:00 p.m.
   Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
II.   Invocation – Alderman Poole
   Alderman Poole welcomed everyone and a moment of silence was observed in
memory of Larry Strong, the Uncle of Alderman Coring and former Alderman Paul
Fisher’s family.
   Alderman Poole delivered the invocation.
   ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Howard stated, “If any member of the Board knows of
any conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with
respect to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
III.   Consent Agenda
   Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Barnes to approve   the consent
agenda items A-E and to remove Item F, Audit Contract Amendment to the regular
agenda under IX.  Other Business. The vote of approval was unanimous.
   A. Minutes
1. December 4, 2012, Special Meeting
2. December 6, 2012 Special Meeting
3. December 13, 2012 Regular Meeting
4. December 20, 2012 Recessed Session
5. December 26, Recessed Session
   B. Committee Reports
   C. Department Reports
   D. Resolution – Solid Waste Plan
   E. Resolution – Legislative Advocacy
IV.   Approval of Regular Agenda
   Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Powell to amend the regular
meeting agenda to add under IX. Other Business, 1) Audit Contract Amendment, 2)
Lease transfer of a boat slip. Vote unanimous.
V.     Presentations and Recognitions - None
VI.   Public Comments
   Mayor Howard acknowledged written public comments from Mr. Ed Boguskie and
requested the e-mail be made a part of the minutes.
-----Original Message-----
From: Ed Boguskie
Sent: Thursday, January 10, 2013 5:05 PM
To: regina_alexander@southportnc.org 
Subject: Public Comment

I am Ed Boguskie, live at 502 W.Brown St., Southport, NC.
I am not able to attend the meeting tonight, so I would like to have
this read and be a part of the minutes.

I, like many in Southport have followed the talk, the press and
meetings concerning the purchase of property for a new location for
city hall. I felt from the beginning the property at 1029 N. Howe St.
was a favorable location for this move. It seems to cover the present
and future needs of the city. I had questions, after the December 4th
meeting such as why an appraiser was not used, who inspected the
building structurally and did the city get the lowest dollar as the
purchase price? All these questions were answered satisfactorily in
an email from Robert Howard. I know Jim Powell has spent a great deal
of time evaluating the property, as have others. Nelson Adams has
been very involved and told me he felt this was the property that
would serve the people of Southport now and in the future. I got
similar remarks from Todd Coring and Ken Karn.
Seems after the announcement at the December 4th meeting another piece
of property has come on the market, or should I say was on the market
but was being handled like a silent auction. This property falls
short in most areas of comparison, except it is cheaper. I learned in
business cheap is not always best. In this case, we have to leave the
police department in old city hall and maybe other departments. The
December 4th meeting also brought out the cost to upgrade city hall
and it was pointed out this was not the best use of taxpayer money.
Seems if the bank building is purchased the upgrade, money not well
spent according to the mayor's remarks, will have to be spent. I also
believe it was a unanimous vote concerning the property at 1029 N.
Howe St. Why all of a sudden are some members now wanting to follow
another line of thought? Someone give me the reason for this change
of thought. Buy the 1029 N. Howe St. property; sell the old waste plant sight
and let the bank find, maybe a bank partner that likes the location.
   Ms. Bonnie Thomas, 5122 Price’s Creek, and speaking on behalf of the
Southport Woman’s Club invited Aldermen and staff to their annual art show
February 5, 2013 at the Southport Community Building. The show will feature
artwork from South Brunswick Middle and High School students.
   Mr. Rick Johnstone of 110 Willis Drive and a 47-year resident of Southport
spoke in support of the building located at 300 North Howe for the new City
Hall and stated contrary to what was stated in the newspaper; in 2000,
renovations were made to the current City Hall i.e. new roof, hvac system,
wiring, etc. He communicated that the current City Hall has withstood many
hurricanes and questioned the need to relocate. The proposed new location near
11th street (1029 N. Howe) is out of town and the current location is within
walking distance to downtown businesses. He questioned what would happen with
the existing City Hall location. He cited the square foot comparisons and
monetary differential of 300 N. Howe compared to 1029 North Howe Street
building and encouraged the Board to compare the cost of both buildings,
including location.
VII.   Unfinished Business
A) Policy – Proposed Uses of Fort Johnston
   Mayor Howard stated that this is the third meeting for consideration of the
proposed uses for Fort Johnston. There was no discussion or questions from the
Board.
   Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to adopt the policy on
proposed uses of Fort Johnston property. The vote of approval was unanimous.
Motion passed.   
A RESOLUTION REGARDING
PROPOSED USES OF THE FORT JOHNSTON PROPERTY
   WHEREAS the Fort Johnston property was donated to the City of Southport with
the intention that it be used for public park and recreational purposes; and
   WHEREAS the City’s use and management of the property remains subject to
general oversight by the U.S. Department of Interior and the North Carolina
Department of Cultural Resources; and
   WHEREAS the central and attractive location of Fort Johnston makes it an
attractive location for a wide variety of potential uses, both temporary and
permanent; and
   WHEREAS the City of Southport has a responsibility to give thorough and
deliberate consideration to all potential uses of the Fort Johnston property,
especially those that involve the installation of structures or structural
additions on the site;
   BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport that the
following policy is adopted with respect to proposed uses of the Fort Johnston
property that involve the installation of- or additions to permanent structures
on the site:
FORT JOHNSTON INSTALLATIONS POLICY
The following policy shall normally apply to any proposed uses of the Fort
Johnston property that involve the installation of structures or additions to
permanent structures on the site:
1. First Reading. The proposed use shall be provided, described, and/or
illustrated in detail and in written form, to the satisfaction of the Board of
Aldermen, and the requested use shall be presented at a regular meeting (or a
special meeting called for that purpose) of the Board. This presentation and
description, which may be required to be presented in a form prescribed by the
Board or City Manager, shall constitute the first reading of the proposed use.
If the Board agrees by majority vote, upon first reading, that it desires to
further consider the proposed use, the proposed use shall then be sent to any
appropriate agencies – including the State Historic Preservation Office – for
review and comment.
2. Second Reading. After receipt of any agency comments, the proposed use of
the property shall be scheduled for second reading by the Board of Aldermen,
which shall take place at a regular meeting unless otherwise advertised. On the
occasion of the second reading, the proposed use shall be advertised for public
comments. After receipt of public comments, the Board may, if it desires,
discontinue consideration of the proposed use or may give preliminary approval,
by majority vote, to the proposed use and schedule the proposal for third
reading.
3. Third Reading. After its initial decision to give further consideration to
the proposal, the receipt of agency and public comments, and a second decision
to give preliminary approval to the proposed use, the Board may give final
consideration to the proposed use at a third reading, which shall take place at
a regular meeting unless otherwise advertised. On that occasion, the Board may
elect to discontinue consideration of the proposed use, carry the matter over
for further consideration, or give final approval to the proposed use.
4. General. This policy is intended to describe the minimum process that should
be followed in considering permanent uses of the Fort Johnston property and is
not intended to inhibit any additional information requests, reviews,
investigations, opportunities for comment, or other measures considered
necessary by the Board of Aldermen in order to give thorough and deliberate
consideration to proposed uses of the property. In rare or extraordinary
circumstances involving opportunities or emergencies with deadlines beyond the
Board’s control, the Board may vary this policy as needed, while making every
effort to preserve its overall purpose and intent.
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, January 10,
2013.
                        s/Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:
s/Regina W. Alexander, Clerk
B) Revised Guidelines – Filming
   Alderman Karn, Chair of the Film Committee reported that the Committee
reviewed the guidelines with incorporated recommendations. The Committee
recommended the guidelines for preliminary approval by the Board and made
available for public input. He suggested before final approval, that the Board
decide whether the guidelines should become policy or ordinance.
    Alderman Karn motioned, seconded by Alderman Poole for preliminary approval
of the film guidelines and that the document is made available for public
inspection until the February meeting. (Document in Clerk’s Office) Discussion:
Alderman Barnes stated that filming affects the public and they should have
input before deciding if the guidelines are adequate and whether it becomes
policy or ordinance. Alderman Coring encouraged the public to attend the next
meeting for input. Attorney Isenberg noted that the document in question is
guidelines; but if the Board proposes to make the document an ordinance, some
changes will need to be made. The vote of approval was unanimous. Motion
passed.
CITY OF SOUTHPORT FILMING POLICY AND GUIDELINES
A. Statement of Policy
   The City of Southport welcomes and encourages film production activity in
the community, for the purposes of marketing the community, supporting tourism,
attracting investment and employment by the film industry, and providing unique
recreational interest for residents and visitors. The City of Southport
considers itself to be a “filming-friendly community”. However, because filming
often alters normal activities in the community and can involve exceptional or
unusual events and activities, the City has enacted this policy to insure that
filming activity is conducted with adequate notice, with suitable preparations
and protections, and with appropriate consideration for the effects on
residents and businesses in the community. This policy is designed to support
filming, to promote cooperation and collaboration between the City and the film
industry, to balance the needs of filmmakers and of the community, and to
protect the health, safety, and general welfare of residents, businesses, and
property owners in Southport.
B. General Principles and Conditions
The basic principles that this policy sets forth, and which it contemplates
should be observed by both the administrators of the policy and the film
industry, are as follows:
1. Film production companies shall be consistently extended the welcome and
courtesies of a desired business investment.
2. Film companies should remember at all times that they are guests in both
residential and business areas, that their presence in these areas is dependent
on the goodwill of the occupants, and that they should be courteous and
considerate of occupants and property owners.
3. Filming activities shall be accommodated and assisted, whenever reasonable
and within the resources of the City to provide such support.
4. Permit applications and similar requests by film production companies shall
be reviewed and acted upon in a reasonably expeditious manner, taking into
account the City’s resources.
5. Good communication is considered an extremely important factor in
maintaining positive relations between production companies and the community.
Adequate notification shall be provided at all times to persons, businesses,
and organizations affected by filming activities.
6. The scheduling of filming activities should be arranged in a manner, both
with respect to days of the week and times of day, that minimize adverse
effects on residents, businesses, and transportation.
7. If high impact activities (such intensive or extensive filming or special
effects) are likely to significantly affect residents, businesses, or other
entities, film productions shall make timely and reasonable efforts and
arrangements to mitigate these effects for the affected persons, businesses, or
other entities.
8. In order to insure that costs and inconveniences to residents and taxpayers
are appropriately off-set, the City shall be compensated for the use of
resources and facilities required to accommodate filming activity.
9. In order to protect residents and taxpayers from unnecessary liability, film
production companies shall provide insurance and indemnification of the City
against claims of loss arising from filming activity.
10. The name, insignia, logo, and other symbols of the City of Southport shall
be not used in a disrespectful or derogatory manner or without permission at
any time.
11. The laws and regulations of the city, state, and federal government shall
be fully observed at all times by persons engaged in filming activities.
12. Filming activities that require the approval of non-city agencies (such as
the NC Department of Transportation, the NC Division of Coastal Management, the
NC Division of Water Quality, the U.S. Coast Guard, the County of Brunswick, or
others) are solely the responsibility of the film production, and such
permissions – some of which may require significant lead times – should be
sought in a timely manner in order to avoid delays in production.
C. Definitions
The following terms have the meaning indicated, as used in these guidelines:
1. “Film liaison” is the person specifically designated by the city manager for
coordination of filming activities. The film liaison may be a city staff
member, a person hired or contracted by the city for the specific purpose of
coordinating filming activities, or the city manager.
2. “Filming” is film production activity, regardless of the recording media,
including production of feature films, television programs, documentary films,
commercials, instructional or training films, or other commercial film
production activity intended for use in broadcasting to- or viewing by the
public or specific audiences. “Filming”, for purposes of this policy, does not
generally include limited, non-intrusive filming by individuals intended for
purely personal or family viewing in private settings without an admission
charge.
3. “Film productions” are the companies, organizations, owners, or projects
engaged in commercial, governmental, or non-profit filming. For purposes of
these guidelines, “film companies” and “production companies” have the same
meaning as “film productions”.
4. “Intermittent traffic [or pedestrian] control” is limitation of use of
public vehicular or pedestrian routes for brief periods of time, normally not
exceeding five minutes.
5. “Low impact filming” is filming activity with all of the following
characteristics:
(a) Filming that takes place outside of regular business hours in a business
district; and/or
(b) Filming that has a minimal impact on parking, vehicular and pedestrian
traffic, and access to businesses that are open; and/or
(c) Allows uninterrupted flow of pedestrian and vehicular traffic, utilizes no
more than two on-street parking spaces in a block, produces minimal noise and
lighting between 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., does not obstruct passage on
sidewalks or in alleys, and provides off-street areas for all cast crew,
extras, support vehicles, catering, and other support activities.
6. “High impact filming” is filming that has one or more of the following
characteristics:
(a) Involves filming outside of the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m.; and/or
(b) Displaces more than a minor amount of parking in a block; and/or
(c) Involves street closures, traffic detours, or alternative routing or flows
of traffic; and/or
(d) Impedes pedestrian access to normal walkway areas or customer access to
businesses; and/or
(e) Involves significant night-time lighting, loud noises, special effects,
fire, pyrotechnics; and/or
(f) Involves intermittent traffic or pedestrian control for a significant
length of time:
(g) Involves extensive set dressing, large numbers of extras, or large base
camps or equipment staging areas; and/or
(h) Involves potentially dangerous stunts, vehicle stunt activity, rolling
roadblocks, or other activities that require significant safety perimeters or
tend to impede traffic flow; and/or
(i) Impedes public access to shopping areas, public parks, or public facilities
that are customarily open to the public.
D. Pre-Production Conferences
A pre-production conference is required between the city film liaison and the
film location manager at least two weeks prior to application for any filming
permits. This conference may also include other city officials, such as the
city manager, police chief, and public services director. The film production
company is also encouraged to include in the conference other representatives,
such as producers or directors, who may help provide a complete and
authoritative description of desired filming activities, locations, and time
periods. The film production is asked to provide, at the time of this
conference, as much information as possible regarding anticipated filming
activities, including a general description of the production, locations,
dates, and any “high impact” or special effects activities. The film liaison
will share and discuss with the production company representative(s) the City’s
filming policy and guidelines and any available information regarding
anticipated community activities, other filming taking place at the same time,
municipal resource issues, or other factors that need to be considered in
planning of film production in Southport. The city manager shall be notified in
advance of all such pre-production conferences, notes of the meeting shall be
kept by the film liaison, and the conference shall be reported to the governing
board by the manager.
E. Filming Permits
1. Applications 
a. Content. A permit is required for any and all filming activity that takes
place within the boundaries of the City of Southport. Permit applications shall
be made in a form approved by the city manager, shall be submitted to the
City’s designated film liaison, and all necessary information shall be
provided, including maps, diagrams, illustrations, or other information
required by the film liaison to adequately explain the content of the
application. All applications shall be complete and legible, and illegible or
incomplete applications will not be accepted. The location manager or other
film production representative is encouraged to review each application with
the film liaison in person upon submission and shall participate, in a timely
manner, in any conferences requested to clarify applications.
b. Separate Applications. A separate film permit application should be
submitted for each filming location for each day of filming, unless the film
liaison elects to accept, for the City’s convenience an application for multi-
day low impact filming in a specific location. Multiple locations will not be
accepted on the same application.
c. Traffic Detours. Production companies who wish to detour traffic within the
City and who request street closures that require that traffic be detoured
shall submit a plan in writing, preferably in map form, no less than 10 days
prior to the proposed re-routing, showing the proposed detours(s) and all
traffic control re-routing measures, including signage, barricades, personnel,
and/or advance publicity planned to effect the necessary detours. The plan is
subject to the approval of the film liaison and the Southport Police
Department, including any required modifications. If the needed detour(s)
involve one or more state-maintained roads, the applicant must submit, prior to
approval of the permit, written evidence that the proposed detour plan has been
approved by the North Carolina Department of Transportation.
d. Rain Dates. Alternative filming dates may be requested for filming that may
be delayed by adverse weather or other unforeseeable circumstances. Requests
for alternative dates should be reasonably limited, however, and should not
include “shotgun” requests that may tend to undermine the permitting process
and to make it difficult for city departments, the public, and/or businesses to
reasonably anticipate the actual scheduling of filming.
2. Licenses
In order to be eligible for the issuance of filming permits, film productions
must possess any privilege license(s) required by the city.
3. Deposits
Prior to the issuance of any filming permit, the film production company is
required to provide a basic assurance of its financial responsibility for fees
that will become due and payable to the City in the form of a cash deposit or
in the form of a letter of credit or performance or security bond, in a form
approved by the City, listing the City of Southport as the payee. The amount of
the deposit or bond shall be approved by the city manager and shall be
represent a preliminary estimate of 50 percent of the amounts expected to be
due to the City – based on the duration of the filming, the estimated extent of
resources and facilities required, and previous experiences with film
production. This deposit may be waived or modified in circumstances involving
minor or limited filming activity. The financial responsibility deposit or bond
will be returned or released after the production company has paid all bills
due to the City in association with the film production, and is not be used by
the film production as a draw-down amount for any such obligations.
4. Insurance and Indemnification.
All film productions are required, prior to the issuance of any filming
permits, to maintain and provide evidence of liability insurance policies, with
the City named as an additional insured, in the following minimum amounts:
General Liability Insurance            $1,000,000 per occurrence; $2,000,000
aggregate
Automobile Liability Insurance         $1,000,000 per occurrence; $2,000,000
aggregate
Workers Compensation and Employer Liability    $1,000,000
In addition, film production companies shall be required, prior to the issuance
of a permit, to execute (by an authorized officer) an agreement to indemnify,
defend, and hold harmless the City and its officers, agents, and employees from
and against all claims, suits, actions, damages, liability, and expenses for
bodily or personal injury, loss of life or property, or other damages arising
from or out of any occurrence associated with the filming activity.
5. Processing and Approvals
a. Review and Issuance. From the date and time at which applications are
complete and all necessary information is available, the City will endeavor to
review and act on low impact filming applications within 48 hours (occurring on
business days) and on high impact filming applications within 72 hours
(occurring on business days) whenever possible. Approved permits may be in the
form requested or may include modifications or conditions considered by the
film liaison to be necessary for compliance with these guidelines and the
protection of the public interest.
b. Conditions. Filming permits may, when issued, include conditions or
requirements designed to clarify the permission being granted and/or to insure
that adequate consideration is given to affected residents, businesses, and/or
organizations in the community. Any requirements included in these guidelines
shall be considered a condition of all permits issued.
c. Comments. Permits are subject to modification if the City receives
significant comments after notification of affected persons. The City will
issue any necessary modifications at least 24 hours in advance whenever
possible.
d. Extended Hours. High impact filming between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00
a.m. shall require that the film production obtain the approval of residents in
the affected areas as follows:
- For extension by one hour, 51 percent approval is required;
- For extension by two hours, 66 percent approval is required;
- For extension for more than two hours or all night, 90 percent approval is
required.
6. Impact Level Determinations. Determinations of filming impact levels will be
made by the film liaison, subject to review by the city manager.
7. Restrictions
The following limitations will, apply, in general, to the issuance of filming
permits:
a. Downtown District. Due to high levels of shopping and tourism activity in
the downtown area, coupled with related traffic and parking issues, filming in
the downtown area should be planned, as much as possible, for Sunday or outside
normal business hours.
b. Holiday Season. Due to the importance of the holiday shopping season, high
impact filming will not normally be allowed in concentrated business areas from
Thanksgiving Day to December 31 without the approval of affected businesses.
c. Sales and Special Events. High impact filming will not normally be allowed
within two blocks of a planned sales event or special community event if the
event is an annual event, if the event has received approval from the city,
and/or if expenses have been incurred prior to application.
d. Location Spacing. A minimum three blocks separation must be maintained
between any two filming locations (including base camp, equipment parking, and
other support activities) that occur on the same date.
e. Multiple Permits. No more than two film permits will normally be issued
within any business district or residential neighborhood for any given date.
f. Location Stress. The City reserves the right to restrict high impact filming
on streets or in neighborhoods, business districts, or parks, which have
experienced significant stress due to heavy filming, seasonal festivals or
events, natural disasters, construction activity, or similar circumstances.
g. Emergencies. In the event of natural or civil disasters or infrastructure
emergencies, the City reserves the right to cancel any and all filming permits
on both public and private properties within the city. If evacuations related
to public safety emergencies require the use of a particular street, area, or
district, all permits for such areas become null and void. Permits vacated for
these reasons will be re-issued as soon as possible after emergency conditions
have ended and appropriate safety evaluations have been conducted.
h. Public Safety and Convenience. The City reserves the right to change,
modify, update, or waive provisions of permits or these guidelines when
necessary for the public safety and/or convenience.
i. Policy Compliance. The City reserves the right to cancel and/or modify
filming permits when necessary to insure adherence to these guidelines or
public laws or ordinances.
8. Permit Limitations, Revocations, and Penalties
Film production companies shall limit the activities at each location to those
described in the filming permit. Failure of the production company to comply
with the terms and conditions of a permit, failure to comply with the
requirements in these guidelines, conducting filming activity without a permit,
and/or violation of public laws and ordinances may result in the immediate
revocation of a permit and/or penalty fees of up to $200 per hour or $1,000 per
day, as determined by the city manager. Such penalties may be deducted from the
film production’s deposit.
F. Notifications
1. General. Adequate communication and notification is an essential factor in
maintaining positive relations between film productions and the community.
Adequate notification shall be provided at all times to persons, businesses,
and organizations affected by filming activities.
2. Responsibility. The film production is entirely responsible for notifying,
in a timely and complete manner and in a form considered satisfactory by the
City, all residents and businesses affected by filming activity.
3. Notification Form and Content. Filming notifications shall be in writing and
shall include sufficient information to allow residents and businesses who may
not be familiar with filming activity to understand, in layman’s terms, the
days, hours, nature, and full extent of the filming activity, including any
impacts on access to properties, on use of streets and pedestrian ways, and on
normal and peaceful use of properties. Notifications shall also include any
significant conditions that have been issued in association with the permit.
The City reserves the right to determine whether the content of such
notifications adequately communicates to affected residents and businesses the
nature and extent of the planned filming activity and to require that the
notification include the filming permit and the full content of any related
conditions if it considers this additional information to be advisable.
Notifications shall include the name, telephone, and e-mail contact information
for at least two representatives of the film production (including the location
manager) and the name and contact information for the city film liaison.
4. Timing of Notifications. Notifications of affected areas shall take place
after the City’s review and approval of each permit and shall be made no less
than three business days prior to any filming activity. Earlier notification
may be required, in the discretion of the film liaison, in instances involving
business districts or certain high impact filming. Notification periods may be
reduced in some instances of low impact filming if the film liaison determines
that significant advance notification is not warranted.
5. Area of Notification. The area of notification (affected areas) may vary
based on the level (impact) of filming activity, but should include an area at
least one block in every direction from the filming activity. High impact
filming activity may require notification of a significant larger area,
especially if significant traffic controls, high levels of noise, special
effects, or lighting, or other major impacts will be associated with the
filming activity. Determinations with regard to “affected areas” will be made
by the film liaison, in consultation with the city manager.
6. Re-Notifications. If the schedule and/or nature of filming activity changes
after a permit has been issued and notifications have been distributed, the
film liaison may, in his or her discretion, require that re-notifications be
made to the affected area. The film liaison may also require re-notifications
if a determination is made that the initial notification was improperly made or
insufficient with respect to content.
7. Notification Documentation. In addition to other notification requirements
listed above, high impact filming requires that film productions obtain proof
of notification, in the form of signatures and legible names from affected
residents and/or businesses. Proof of notifications must be provided to the
film liaison at least 24 hours in advance of the filming activity, and failure
to provide notification shall be grounds for revocation of a filming permit.
The film liaison shall be notified if occupants could not be reached, including
the dates and times (normally at least two) when notifications were attempted.
The film liaison may waive the documentation requirement in instances when
occupants could not be reached after reasonable attempts, but notification
shall be left at the property in every instance.
8. Community Meetings. Film productions are encouraged, in order to foster
understanding and promote good community relations, to provide one or more
opportunities, prior to- or early in the production, for residents and
businesses to attend an announced meeting, learn about the upcoming film
activity, and meet representatives of the production (and actors, if
available). Film productions are also encouraged to utilize public meetings to
help the community or specific areas understand the nature and extent of
planned high impact filming activity. In certain instances of major impacts on
businesses or residential neighborhoods, the film liaison may require that a
meeting opportunity be provided, prior to filming activity, for residents or
businesses to ask questions of film production representatives and offer
comments about proposed filming activity.
9. Extended Hours Notifications. As noted in the Filming Permits section,
special conditions apply to high impact filming between the hours of 11:00 p.m.
and 7:00 a.m. If the consent thresholds are met for extended hours filming,
this information (including the level of consent obtained) shall be conveyed to
affected residents, either within the regular notification or by separate
notification.
10. Reservation of Rights. The City reserves the right to deny or revoke
permits when insufficient time has been allowed for proper notification or when
the notification process has been improperly or insufficiently carried out.
G. General Filming Requirements
The following guidelines apply to filming in all areas of the city, unless
limited by reference to specific areas.
1. Base Camp Placement. Whenever possible, base camps and dressing room
trailers should be parked away from nearby residences and noise from
generators, engines, doors, and other sources should be limited in the hours
between 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. Base camps shall be located in areas zoned for
commercial use whenever possible.
2. Equipment Placement. Equipment and support vehicles that are not in
immediate use shall be parked or stored in areas that do not interfere with
pedestrians or vehicular traffic and shall not utilize more than 50% of on-
street parking in blocks where residents necessarily and customarily depend on
on-street parking. Any exceptions must be approved by the film liaison and will
normally require consent of the affected residents.
3. Access Protection. Production vehicles and equipment must not block fire
hydrants, driveways, or other access routes or ramps unless specifically
authorized by the City and/or property owner. Ten feet of clearance should be
left on each side of driveways, unless otherwise specifically authorized.
4. Sight Distances and Parking. Production vehicles and equipment must be
parked or placed in a manner that does not impede safe lines of vision at
intersections and must comply with all city ordinances regarding on-street
parking. Any exceptions must be approved by the Police Department and will
require the presence of one or more law enforcement officers to help maintain
safe traffic movement.
5. Private Property. Filming activity, production equipment placement, and/or
production staging shall not take place on private property without the consent
of property owner(s).
6. Lighting. Lighting for filming, both during day and night hours, should be
oriented away from residences whenever possible and should not be directed in a
manner that interferes with the safe movements of vehicular or boat traffic.
7. Moving and Transition. Production companies are responsible entering and
vacating filming locations with as little noise and disruption as possible at
the beginning and end of each shooting day. Base camps and equipment trucks
moving into residential areas shall not do so before 6:00 a.m. or after 11:00
p.m. without special permission from the film liaison.
8. Waste Collection. Production companies that are being allowed to hold
traffic on streets that are scheduled for solid waste or recycling collection
shall either (a) allow collection trucks access to those areas for normal
pickup or (b) relocate all waste and recycling containers that have been placed
out for collection in an accessible location for collection trucks and return
all containers to their correct locations following pickup. If access to such
containers is inappropriately impeded, the production company will be
responsible for the prompt collection and proper disposal of the solid waste
and recycling materials that could not be collected.
9. Right-of-Way Use. Occupants and property owners may not charge production
companies for the use of public rights-of-way, nor prohibit the use of such
right-of-way without the concurrence of the city. A film permit that authorizes
the use of a specific right-of-way area shall constitute a temporary license
for the use of that area.
10. Clean-Up and Restoration. Unless permission has been granted for continuing
use, production companies shall clean and restore site locations on public
property to their original condition at the end of each shooting day.
Production companies are responsible for returning any public rights-of-way or
public property used for filming, base camp, or other support purposes to their
original condition promptly after use and for satisfactorily repairing any
damage to grass, foliage, pavement, or other public property or improvements.
All sets and related materials shall be removed within seven days after the
conclusion of filming; if sets and other materials are not removed within seven
days, the City may remove same, and the film production shall be responsible
for the costs of such removal.
11. Noise and Fumes. Production companies should make a conscientious effort at
all times to limit and control noise and fumes from generators, engines, and
other equipment, particularly when located in close proximity to residences,
parks, or outdoor facilities open to the public. Film productions may be asked
to relocate equipment that creates nuisance conditions for nearby residents.
Unless specifically incorporated in a film permit, film productions are
separately responsible for compliance with city noise ordinance requirements.
12. Traffic Control 
a. Approvals. Approval must be obtained from the City (and, if applicable,
NCDOT) at least three business days prior to any film activity that will
disrupt the normal flow of traffic, including both full street closures and
intermittent traffic control. Requests and approvals will be coordinated by the
film liaison as part of the film permit process, and, for traffic control
requests, requires the approval of the Southport Police Department.
Interruption of traffic on State-maintained streets also requires approval of
the North Carolina Department of Transportation, which must be obtained by the
production company and provided to the City at the time of application.
b. Street Closures and Detours. Street closures during normal business hours in
business districts are strongly discouraged. Production companies are
encouraged, instead, to schedule filming in such areas outside business hours
or on Sundays whenever possible. When street closures are approved, property
owners and occupants shall be allowed reasonable access to and from their
properties. Production companies that wish to close streets and/or detour
traffic within the city must submit a plan at least 10 working days in advance
to the film liaison, with copies to the Police Department and, if applicable,
NCDOT. The City (and NCDOT if applicable) must approve the plans for alternate
routing of traffic, informational and directional signage, and law enforcement
personnel needed to appropriately divert and route traffic. Production
companies are advised that adequate provision for movement of truck traffic to
and from local industries is important and that the alternatives to use of NC
211 and NC 87 for routing of this traffic are very limited.
c. Rush Hours. Holding of traffic on primary thoroughfares will not normally be
permitted during morning or afternoon “rush” hours or on streets significantly
affected by school traffic during school opening and closing hours.
d. Intermittent Traffic Control. Intermittent holding of traffic shall not
normally exceed three minute intervals and shall not exceed five minute
intervals except when specifically approved by permit.
e. Control and Direction of Traffic. Any filming activity that involves the
holding, delaying, or re-routing of traffic must be accompanied by an
appropriate number of law enforcement personnel, which shall be determined by
the police chief or his designee. All traffic control must be handled by off-
duty city police officers, scheduled through the Police Department and paid
directly by the production company. The police chief may also approve, at his
or her discretion, the use law enforcement officers from other jurisdictions if
an insufficient number of off-duty Southport police officers are available. The
Police Department may approve and establish special traffic flow or direction
measures if necessary to accommodate permitted filming activity, provide access
to properties for the convenience of occupants or owners, and/or to protect
public safety. Except when street areas are closed or special traffic control
measures are approved, production companies and their personnel and contractors
shall comply, at all times, with traffic laws and ordinances.
13. Public Facility Protection. The City reserves the right to require the
presence of a police officer or officers at any filming activity that takes
place on or near public parks or other public properties, in order to provide
security for public facilities and in order to protect the public.
14. Use of Alleys and Fire Lanes. No parking or placement of production
vehicles or equipment of any kind shall take place in alleys, fire lanes, or
other fire response access areas without written permission from the Southport
Fire Department, the film liaison, and the consent of any affected property
owners.
15. Building and Electrical Safety. The film production company shall obtain
all required permits for the construction of structures and for the
installation and use of electrical facilities. Each separate location that
utilizes electrical generation equipment, cabling, or other significant
electrical equipment shall be inspected by a city electrical code inspector and
appropriate fees for such inspections shall be paid by the production company.
16. Pyrotechnics, Explosives, Fires. Film activities that involve the use of
explosives, pyrotechnics, fire, smoke, or similar special effects require
specific approval by the Southport Fire Department, and the fire department may
require such measures that it considers necessary to protect persons and
properties from any potential hazards associated with such activities. Any use
of explosives, pyrotechnics activity, or burning shall require that any film
production personnel involved in such activities provide evidence of any
required certification and/or training to undertake such activities and shall
require that any local or state laws or regulations governing such activities
must be observed. The City will advise the film production company any
requirements of which the film liaison may be aware, but the production company
has primary responsibility for compliance, and the City’s approval of a film
permit does not indicate or imply any determination of compliance with the laws
or regulations of non-city governments or agencies.
17. Protection of Resources. Film productions should endeavor at all times to
insure that water, soil, air, plants, and other natural resources are protected
from damage, particularly in areas where dirt, sod, or hazardous materials are
used in close proximity to environmentally sensitive areas. Removal, damage, or
alteration of vegetation on public property or public rights-of-way is
prohibited unless specific permission is granted in writing by the city manager
or his designee. Any permits required by state or federal resource protection
agencies are the responsibility of the film production. The City will advise
the film production company regarding any such permits or regulations of which
the film liaison may be aware, but assumes no responsibility for such
notifications, and any permits issued by the City do not indicate or imply
compliance with the laws and regulations of non-city governments or agencies.
18. Use of City Name or Symbols. The name, insignia, logo, and other symbols of
the City of Southport shall be not used in the film production or in marketing
for the production without written permission, following appropriate reviews of
script information and the approval of the Board of Aldermen.
19. Location Manager Availability. The film production location manager shall
provide the film liaison with a means of immediate contact (such as a cell
phone or pager number) for the location manager and at least one additional
location representative throughout the duration of the production.
20. Releases and Agreements. Any releases by- or agreements of the City
requested by the film production shall be reviewed by the city attorney prior
to execution by any city official, and the legal costs of such reviews shall be
borne by the film production. The city manager is the only person authorized to
execute releases or agreements.
H. Filming Fees
A. Fee Schedule. The following fees are hereby established for various services
and privileges associated with filming in Southport. Partial days shall
normally be considered full days for purposes of billing. If services are
requested for which a fee has not been established, fees for such services
shall be determined by the city manager based on the cost of time, equipment,
and material. The City reserves the right to require that film productions
acquire certain personnel, equipment, or materials from a non-municipal source
if such resources are not readily available or are needed to carry out other
municipal functions.
[Schedule of Fees – see separate chart]
B. Billings. Unless otherwise delegated by the city manager, recordkeeping of
billable services and privileges and the preparation of billings shall be the
responsibility of the film liaison. Interpretations of billable fees shall be
made by the film liaison, subject to review by the city manager. Billings shall
be prepared and issued, through the City finance department, at least monthly
and shall be payable within 30 days of issuance. Any billings that are not paid
within 30 days shall be subject to a late charge of five percent per month.
I. Reports. The film liaison shall provide regular reports to the city manager
about anticipated filming activity, in order that the Board of Aldermen (and,
if necessary, the general public) may be kept aware of upcoming filming
activity.
J. Policy Review. This policy shall be reviewed at least every three years
following its adoption.
C) Cemeteries Care Study
   Mayor Howard stated the Board discussed in previous work sessions the
establishment of a foundation for perpetual care of cemeteries. Alderman Poole
provided information to the Board for review.
   Alderman Barnes moved, seconded by Alderman Powell to establish a Study
Committee to review cemetery issues for perpetual care and funding, and the
Committee will report to the Board. Discussion: Alderman Coring noted that all
plots with the exception of nine have been sold in Northwood Cemetery and
questioned the long-term goal of care and maintenance funding. He asked if the
City was trying to avoid funding money for the care of cemeteries for which
people have already paid. Mayor Howard noted that the City is not obligated to
fund anything; however, the City has maintained the cemeteries with the help of
volunteers. The purpose is to establish stability for the operation and
maintenance of the cemeteries and provide a vehicle where this could be done by
having a perpetual care trust fund, endowment or other legal means where funds
can be contributed voluntarily, that would insure that care is given to the
cemeteries. Alderman Powell noted that all monies are now being placed in the
general fund, and the Board is trying to establish the means where monies will
be earmarked for care and maintenance of cemeteries. No further discussion, the
vote of approval was unanimous. Motion passed.
    Mayor Howard asked the Board for recommendations and encouraged civic
organizations and the public to participate.
VIII. New Business
A) Public Hearing – Annexation Petition, Dr. Christopher Moshoures 
    Motion by Alderman Barnes, seconded by Alderman Powell to go into public
hearing (6:41 p.m.) to receive public comments on the annexation petition for
1620 North Howe Street, 1.51 acres located at Vision Square. Vote unanimous.
   Michael Norton of Compass Pointe Engineering firm was present to answer
questions regarding the annexation.
   There were no comments from the public. Alderman Powell motioned to close
the Hearing at 6:43 p.m. seconded by Alderman Barnes. Vote unanimous.
B) Annexation Ordinance
   Alderman Powell motioned to adopt the annexation ordinance, seconded by
Alderman Karn, vote unanimous. Motion passed
AN ORDINANCE TO EXTEND THE CORPORATE LIMITS OF THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT, NORTH
CAROLINA
   WHEREAS, the City of Southport has been petitioned under G.S.160A-31 to
annex the area described below; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen has by resolution directed the City Clerk to
investigate the sufficiency of the petition; and
   WHEREAS, the City Clerk has certified the sufficiency of the petition and a
public hearing on the question of this annexation was held at Southport City
Hall at 6:00 p.m. on January 10, 2013, after due notice by publication in the
State Port Pilot on December 26, 2012, and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen finds that the petition meets the
requirements of G.S. 160A-31;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport, North Carolina that:
   Section 1. By virtue of the authority granted by G.S. 160A-31, the following
described territory is hereby annexed and made part of the City of Southport as
of January 10, 2013:
EXHIBIT A
BEGINNING AT AN EXISTING ½ EIR, SAID EIR HAVING THE NORTH CAROLINA GRID
COORDINATES OF N=70625.81, E=2,295,718.30, SCALE FACTOR OF 1.000132258, RUNS
THENCE N 14 DEGREES 21 MINUTES 07 SECONDS W 295.37 FEET TO A 5/8” EIR, RUNS
THENCE S 72 DEGREES 25 MINUTES 21 SECONDS W 160.80 FEET TO A ½” EIR, RUNS
THENCE S 71 DEGREES 40 MINUTES 27 SECONDS W 265.25 FEET TO A 5/8” EIR IN THE
RIGHT OF WAY OF NC 211, RUNS THENCE WITH SAID RIGHT OF WAY N 18 DEGREES 03
MINUTES 41 SECONDS W 125.04 FEET TO A 1/2 “ EIR, RUNS THENCE N 71 DEGREES 59
MINUTES 10 SECONDS E 464.40 FEET TO A 2” EIP, RUNS THENCE S 14 DEGREES 20
MINUTES 41 SECONDS E 125.19 FEET TO A 5/8” EIR, RUNS THENCE S 14 DEGREES 18
MINUTES 36 SECONDS E 275.77 TO A 1/2” EIR IN THE RIGHT OF WAY OF NC 87 RUNS
THENCE S 40 DEGREES 06 MINUTES 18 SECONDS W 36.85 FEET TO THE PLACE AND POINT
OF BEGINNING, CONTAINING 1.51 ACRES.
    Section 2. Upon and after January 10, 2013, the above-described territory
and its citizens and property shall be subject to all debts, laws, ordinances
and regulations in force in the City of Southport and shall be entitled to the
same privileges and benefits as other parts of the City of Southport. Said
territory shall be subject to municipal taxes according to G.S. 160A-58.10
   Section 3. The Mayor of the City of Southport shall cause to be recorded in
the office of the Register of Deeds of Brunswick County, and in the office of
the Secretary of State at Raleigh, North Carolina, an accurate map of the
annexed territory, described in Section 1 above, together with a duly certified
copy of this ordinance. Such a map shall also be delivered to the County Board
of Elections, as required by G.S. 163-288.1.
Adopted this the 10th day of January 2013.
                     City of Southport
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard
                     Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/Regina W. Alexander
Clerk
C) North Carolina DOT – City Agreement, Safe Routes to Schools Project
   Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Coring to approve the Agreement
with NC Department of Transportation to provide $125,000 in Safe Routes to
Schools funding to the City to construct 2,060 linear feet of sidewalks and
related facilities on the west side of North Howe Street. Vote unanimous.
(Agreement Incorporated as Attachment #1)
   Budget Amendment – Alderman Coring moved, seconded by Alderman Barnes to
approve budget amendment #5 to set up a grant project budget ordinance Vote
unanimous.
BUDGET AMENDMENT #5 FISCAL 2012-2013
GRANT PROJECT BUDGET ORDINANCE – SRTS PROJECT
   WHEREAS the North Carolina Department of Transportation has awarded the City
of Southport a Safe Routes to Schools grant in the amount of $125,000 to fund
the cost of constructing sidewalks along North Howe Street (NC 211); and
   WHEREAS the Board of Aldermen has approved a municipal agreement accepting
the grant from the North Carolina Department of Transportation; and
   WHEREAS a budget ordinance is needed to reflect the revenues and
expenditures needed to carry out the project; and
   WHEREAS North Carolina General Statute 159-13.2 authorizes the adoption of
project budget ordinances for grant projects, which continue for the life of
each project;
   BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina:
Section 1. A grant project ordinance for the Safe Routes to Schools Sidewalks
Project, which shall be accounted for in a separate fund, is created, with the
following estimated revenues and anticipated expenditures:
Revenues                      Approved Amount
NCDOT Safe Routes to Schools Grant               $125,000
Appropriations
Sidewalks Design and Construction               $125,000
Section 2. This ordinance shall be effective upon its adoption.
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, January 10,
2013.
Attest: s/Regina Alexander, City Clerk               s/Robert D. Howard, Mayor
D) Safe Haven Premiere
   City Manager Thomas stated that Cindy Brochure, Director of Tourism has been
working to organize a local celebration for the premiere of Safe Haven, which
is scheduled to debut February 14.
   Ms. Brochure gave an overview of planned events, which includes a movie
showing, tours of filming locations and after party at the Community Building.
Plans are to sell 300 tickets at $50 per ticket, with no cost to the City.
   Alderman Barnes asked questions concerning the celebration, ticket sales,
and accommodations at the theatre. He noted that the event is being held during
a weekday, which may hinder ticket sales because of working people and
merchants not able to close their businesses. Ms. Brochure stated tickets would
be available 2 days for Southport residents before opening them to the public.
Alderman Karn suggested the possibility of scaling back the event including
cost of tickets to insure that tickets are sold and the event is successful,
while stating his support.
   City Manager Thomas stated a budget amendment is needed to appropriate
revenues and expenses associated with the celebration. Ms. Brochure estimated
revenues and expenses conservatively, noting that the expenses will not exceed
the revenues.
    Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Barnes to approve the Safe Haven
premiere celebration and budget amendment #6 to fund the event for $14,500. The
vote of approval was unanimous.
BUDGET AMENDMENT #6
FISCAL 2012-2013 BUDGET ORDINANCE
   WHEREAS the movie Safe Haven, based on the Nicholas Sparks novel of the same
name, was filmed in Southport in 2012 and showcases the community in its own
identity; and
WHEREAS a special celebration is planned in conjunction with the premiere of
the Safe Haven movie on February 14, 2013; and
   WHEREAS the budget ordinance for the FY 2012-2013 fiscal year needs to be
amended to reflect the revenues and expenditures necessary to carry out the
celebration;
   BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2012-2013 shall be
amended as follows:
GENERAL FUND
Revenues            Previous Amount      Increase      Amended Amount
Tourism – Special Events       $5,000         $14,500          $19,500
Appropriations
Tourism & Economic Development    $100,770      $14,500         $115,270
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, January 10,
2013.
S/Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:
S/Regina Alexander, City Clerk
E) Building Improvements Committee Report
   Alderman Powell reported that the Building Improvements Committee discussed
several options when the City begun the process of exploring City building
renovations. It was decided not to tear down the Code Enforcement Building
because of the need for public restrooms. The City Manager located the building
at 1029 North Howe Street, which is located on seven-tenths (7/10) of an acre
and the parking lot will hold 30 cars. He stated when discussion occurred about
the building and its availability, a new vision was formed to centralize City
government. The building is located near the center of town, with hopes in the
future to acquire the entire block for a government center. The City began
negotiations to acquire the 1029 building including closing date, then the 300
building became available. The Committee wanted to be fair and put off
purchasing the 1029 building before the end of the year in order to look at the
300 building. He stated according to the county tax records, the 1029 building
is 10,000 square feet and the 300 building is 8100 square feet. The 300
building sits on seventeen- hundredths of an acre and has only 10-12 parking
spaces with no room to grow. The street right of way on 11th street is sixty-
six feet (66 feet) wide and some of this could be turned in to parking spaces.
The Building Improvements Committee hired an architect and structural engineer
to check out the building and the report was excellent. With the vision to
centralize government, the Committee voted 2-1 to recommend the purchase of the
1029 North Howe Street building.
   Alderman Karn stated that he looked at both buildings including cost
breakdown. The difference in the cost between the two buildings is a savings of
$419,000 if the City selects the 300 Howe option, but it does not meet the
needs of the City. Acquiring the facility will not place all departments under
one roof and it may end up costing the City more if one department is left at
the current City Hall with major upgrades needed. The 1029 building is
sufficient to place all departments under one roof, more cost effective, and is
the best use of City resources.
   Mayor Howard answered a question posed by Alderman Barnes stating that
$75,000 was included in the financial analysis to upgrade the Police Department
depending on which option the Board selected.
   Alderman Poole stated that she weighed various scenarios realizing the Board
must be prudent. She stated that the best use of space is to acquire the 300
North Howe Street building that will allow three departments to move and
upgrade services. She stated that she is not sure whether the City needs to
plan for growth since Southport is a finite number of people with finite
services. Acknowledging that Southport recently received the second place award
for best downtown area in the State; it is important that facilities remain
downtown. Citizens want the City to maintain the current City Hall. If the City
purchases the 300 building, then it will have money to refurbish City Hall. She
asked the Board to consider purchasing 300 North Howe. (Security Building)
   Alderman Adams stated he favored the 1029 North Howe Street Building and the
Board was solidified in this decision with financing from the sale of the
property on West West Street. If the Board pays less and departments remain
fragmented, it defeats the purpose of what is trying to be achieved by placing
all departments under one roof. He stated that the 1029 building is sufficient
to house all departments and has sufficient parking and he supports this
option.
   Alderman Coring stated the City has done its due diligence. The City keeps
moving farther North as a result of annexation. Ten twenty-nine (1029) North
Howe is more centralized for all citizens and it will meet the needs of the
City including parking. He looked at the 300 Building, but believes the City
needs to plan for growth and not gridlock itself. He prefaced his remarks by
stating the Police Department is about community and public service.
   Alderman Powell motioned, seconded by Alderman Karn to deny the contract on
the 300 North Howe Street Building (SSB) and to move forward to exercise the
contract for purchasing the 1029 North Howe Street Building.   Discussion:
Alderman Poole asked Mayor Howard for his view because of his knowledge and
experience with commercial real estate. Mayor Howard stated that both buildings
were good options, but he looked at the feasibility and need to operate both
buildings. He stated that City Hall and the 300 building would essentially use
the same amount of square footage to accommodate City departments. Due to the
furniture and updated telephone system, significant value has been added to the
300 building. The City will have to buy furniture for the 1029 building and a
new telephone system. While both facilities provide for availability and
utilization, the 300 building will enhance the downtown municipal complex. He
explained, regardless of which building is acquired, not all of City government
will be under one roof. He stated that the current City Hall needs to have a
viable use and whatever department remains will not be disadvantaged with
quality of space. Acquisition of the 300 building ($420,000) will equate to 20%
savings in taxpayers’ dollars, with approximate 6.45 per $100 evaluation
assessment in ad valorem taxes. Ten twenty-nine (1029) North Howe will cost per
square feet including furniture $184, and the 300 building $137.50. A vault
exists in the 300 building and one will have to be constructed in the 1029
building. He stated most importantly is the viable use of City Hall. He
explained that when it came to the public’s knowledge that the City was looking
to purchase a building rather than build one, he was told that the Security
Savings Building was available. When contacted, he presented the option to the
Building Improvements Committee for consideration. Upon review of the options,
he favored the 300 Building which he deemed would be in the best interest of
the taxpayers. In conclusion, Mayor Howard stated whatever building is
selected, the Board will move forward and continue to work together.
       Discussion: Alderman Barnes asked if the space analysis study performed
by John Sawyer Architect proposed options for location of City Hall. Mayor
Howard stated that one of the options suggested was to construct a new public
services building further north. Alderman Powell called for the vote on the
motion. The votes were 4 ayes, Powell, Coring, Adams and Karn. 2 no votes,
Aldermen Barnes and Poole . Motion passed 4-2 in favor of the 1029 building.
IX.   Other Business
   1) Audit Contract Amendment
   City Manager Thomas stated that the City auditors need additional time to
complete the audit because documentation from City staff was not completed. The
Local Government Commission requires that the contract be amended when
additional time is required.
   Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Barnes to approve the Audit
Contract Amendment, authorizing Mayor Howard to execute it. Vote unanimous.
(Copy of Contract Amendment Incorporated As Attachment #2)
   2) City Dock Lease
   Mayor Howard reported that Mr. Ivey Gaskell’s boat had been docked at the
Yacht Basin 20 plus years. The lease was in Son McKeithan’s name but they
shared the dock. Mr. McKeithan no longer has a boat at the City dock and he was
in the process of transferring the lease to Mr. Gaskell, which was not complete
before the passage of new city regulations. He was contacted about this matter
and referred it to Alderman Barnes, Chair of the Rate Review Committee for
investigation.
   Alderman Barnes stated it was not the intention of the Committee to make
anyone leave the boat dock. He stated the way the City’s ordinance is written,
the contract is in Mr. McKeithan’s name and if he gives it up, then Mr. Gaskell
would have to apply for a boat slip which would place him at the bottom of the
waiting list. He does not believe that this is fair to Mr. Gaskell, who is part
of the nautical history of Southport and has been for years. He has used his
own resources to work on the dock and slip at his own expense. Alderman Barnes
motioned, seconded by Alderman Poole to direct the City Manager to transfer the
lease from Son McKeithan’s name to Mr. Ivey Gaskell. Discussion: Alderman Poole
stated that Mr. Gaskell is the defacto leasee because he has been paying a
portion of the rent for years. Alderman Coring stated that he previously
requested a list of the slip owners and this is an example of what can happen
when decisions are rushed. The vote of approval was unanimous. Motion passed.
X.   City Manager Comments
   None
XI.   Board Comments
   Alderman Karn stated he does not believe the Board intends to abandon the
City Hall building regardless of the vote on acquiring another building. If the
project proceeds as outlined, the citizens will decide on what happens to City
Hall. Both options include expenditures to stabilize City Hall.     Alderman
Coring reiterated that the City has no plans to demolish or abandon City Hall.
    Alderman Powell stated in 30-60 days, Mayor Howard will appoint a Citizens’
Committee to look at options and plans for City Hall.
XII.   Adjournment – 7:50 p.m.
   No further business, meeting adjourned upon motion of Alderman Barnes,
seconded by Alderman Poole. Vote unanimous.
                     _____________________________
                           Mayor
_________________________
City Clerk
JANUARY 22, 2013
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN             SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
JANUARY 22, 2013              6:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS (CITY HALL) SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Todd Coring, Ken Karn, Mary Ellen Poole, Buddy Barnes,
         Nelson Adams, Jim Powell
STAFF PRESENT:   Patrick Thomas, City Manager
         Regina W. Alexander, MMC, NCCMC
         Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
I.   Call to Order - 6:00 p.m.
   Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
II.   Invocation – Alderman Poole
   Alderman Poole welcomed everyone and delivered the invocation. She thanked
staff and those involved in the refurbishment of the tennis courts at Fort
Johnston.
   Mayor Howard thanked the three young men that saved the life of a man who
drove into the river at the foot of Bay Street.
III.   Purpose of Meeting
   Mayor Howard stated the purpose of the meeting is to proceed with the
legalities for closing on the property at 1029 North Howe Street, which will
require Board approval.
   Mayor Howard cited the terms of the Novant lease payout with Novant agreeing
to pay 50% of the remaining rent in consideration of the early termination of
its lease. The Board agreed to the terms of the termination of Novant’s lease.
Attorney Isenberg stated that he is waiting on the estopple certificate and
termination agreement, however; the Board may wish to extend the term of the
purchase contract, but all paper work is in order. Alderman Barnes, moved,
seconded by Alderman Karn to extend the due diligence date until February 14,
2013, and the closing date to February 21, 2013, and to accept Novant’s offer
of early termination. Vote unanimous.
   City Manager Thomas reported that Wells Fargo lease ends in 2016, but they
have the option for two five-year renewals. The total due on the initial lease
is $327,478, which includes maintenance fees of $40,958. Wells Fargo offered to
terminate its lease early without any money. Mr. Thomas explained that the City
would get at least $70,000+ per year in rent from Wells Fargo, which would be a
benefit to the City with this additional revenue.
   Alderman Powell motioned, seconded by Alderman Barnes to move forward with
due diligence and continue with the closing up to February 21, and to decline
the Wells Fargo offer to terminate their lease without compensation to the
City. The vote was unanimous.
   Mayor Howard announced that the City is near to closing on the 1029 North
Howe Street Building. Surveys, paperwork and due diligence have been completed.
Upon closing, the downstairs portion of the building is clear. When the closing
is completed, some office relocations will begin after repairs and retrofitting
the building for occupancy. City Manager Thomas will decide where offices will
be located on the first floor.
   The Board agreed to hold a budget goals workshop January 31, 6:00 p.m.
   Alderman Barnes communicated that the Tourism Department sold 300 tickets
for the Safe Haven Premiere, February 14.
Adjournment – 6:48 p.m.
   Motion to adjourn by Alderman Powell, seconded by Alderman Adams, vote
carried.
                     
                        _____________________________
                        Mayor
_________________________
City clerk
FEBRUARY 14, 2013
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN             REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
FEBRUARY 14, 2013             7:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS (CITY HALL) SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Todd Coring, Ken Karn, Mary Ellen Poole, Buddy Barnes,
         Nelson Adams, Jim Powell
STAFF PRESENT:   Patrick Thomas, City Manager
         Regina W. Alexander, MMC, NCCMC
         Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
         Bonnie Bray, Finance Director
         Jerry Dove, Chief of Police
         Cindy Brochure, Tourism & Economic Development Director
         Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
I.   Call to Order - 6:00 p.m.
   Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
II.   Invocation – Alderman Adams
   Alderman Adams welcomed everyone and Chief Dove pronounced the invocation
   ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Howard stated, “If any member of the Board knows of
any conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with
respect to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
III.   Consent Agenda
   Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to approve the consent
agenda and to remove Items E, budget amendment 8 and F, budget amendment 9 to
the regular agenda under other business. Vote unanimous.
   A) January 3, 10 and 22 minutes (approved)
   B) Committee reports
   C) Department reports
   D) Budget Amendment #7, tree planting (approved)
BUDGET AMENDMENT #7
FISCAL 2012-2013 BUDGET ORDINANCE
   WHEREAS the City of Southport has received a $2,000 donation to help fund
the planting of trees in the community; and
   WHEREAS the budget ordinance for the FY 2012-2013 fiscal year needs to be
amended to reflect the revenues and expenditures necessary to allow the use of
these funds;
   BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2012-2013 shall be
amended as follows:
GENERAL FUND
Revenues                        Previous Amount      Increase      Amended
Amount
Donations – Tree Planting                      -0-         $2,000         
$2,000   
Appropriations
Parks and Recreation                     $500,500      $2,000         $502,500
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, February 14,
2013.
                                                         
                                          s/Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:
s/Regina Alexander, City Clerk
IV.   Other Reports
   A. Meeting Broadcast Report
   Alderman Karn presented information on video streaming of Board meetings and
asked the Board to review it and determine the manner they wished to proceed,
while stating the best opportunity to pursue this is during renovation of the
Alderman Chambers.
   Mayor Howard asked that this item be placed on the March agenda for a
detailed report.
   B. Waterfront Improvement Committee
   Alderman Poole reported the Committee discussed the need for a master plan
to include implementation and maintenance. They discussed a three-step plan to
include review of previous plans, get committee members and others involved in
the review of the plan, and to visit other areas with similar waterfront
improvements. March 6 at 6:00 p.m. is the next scheduled meeting at the Fire
Department Headquarters.
V.   Approval of Agenda
   Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to approve the amended
agenda including the Film Ordinance, Sandy Lane, Hankinsville Road and Fire
Department Grant. Vote unanimous.
VI.   Presentations and Recognitions
   A. River Rescue
   Alderman Coring presented on behalf of Mayor Howard and the Board of
Aldermen, Certificates of Recognition to Cameron Bryant, Charles Bryant and
Jakob Paskas. They rescued and saved the life of Mr. Joachin Hans Wallrath, a
77-year-old male from Pinehurst, N.C., from his sinking vehicle on January 21
that ran off the road into the Cape Fear River near Waterfront Park.
   B. Retirement
   Alderman Barnes presented on behalf of Mayor Howard and the Board, a
Certificate of Recognition to Alderman Poole in honor of her retirement from
Sunny Point CPAC as a Civilian Personnel Officer for 38 years.
VII.   Public Comments
   Mr. Fred Guerrina, 710 Dale Avenue, encouraged the Board when considering
policy or ordinance changes to exercise caution and perform thorough research
before making changes.
   Mrs. Martha Johnson, 227 E. 11th Street thanked the Board for the recycle
bins, making the decision to relocate all departments in the current City Hall
and asked that good judgment continue to prevail when making decisions about
what is placed on the Fort Johnston garrison lawn, while continuing to make
Southport a safe haven for everyone.
   Mrs. Shirley Wilson, 502 Brunswick Street, thanked Cindy Brochure, Tourism
Director and the City for the events planned around the release of Safe Haven,
with excellent publicity for the City. She asked the Board to consider a film
policy because an ordinance can be too restrictive, complicate the overall film
production process, and deter film companies from wanting to film in Southport.
   Mr. Paul Genovese asked the Board to insure that a surety bond or deposit is
posted prior to film companies receiving a permit to film in Southport. He
discussed policy vs. ordinance. An ordinance, which is law, allows the Board to
make decisions rather than negotiate policies. He encouraged the City to
consider its citizens and give then the same consideration as film companies.
   Mr. Johnny Griffin, representing the Wilmington Regional Film Commission,
stated his job is to recruit the film industry to 11 counties in southeastern
N.C. along with the State of North Carolina. Last year the film industry spent
$230 million in Southeastern North Carolina, which was an economic boost to the
economy. He asked that whatever document is adopted, that it has flexibility
and allows individuals from the film industry and the City to be able to
negotiate due to the nature of the movie business.
   Ms. Nancy Clookie told the Board that she worked in the film industry for
many years and is now in retail. She stated that she is not promoting change
and whatever decision is made, that it be made with flexibility due to the many
changes that are made in a moment’s notice during filming. Safe Haven brought
in wonderful, polite people, it was a boom to the retail businesses, and she
encouraged the Board to be mindful of this.
   Mrs. Carol Baker, owner of Waterfront Gifts, stated that she has been
overwhelmed with positive comments about the filming and the people. The City
has an ordinance in place, which is a good guideline, although it may require a
few changes. She stated that the City has efficient and qualified staff to
negotiate and make decisions. She encouraged the Board to do whatever it can to
encourage filming in Southport and everyone will benefit.
   Mr. Sandy Mitchell, 513 North Atlantic, stated he read the new proposed
guidelines and they are okay with him. He has been involved with the movies on
different occasions. However, he was disturbed because of the fireworks with
Safe Haven. He does not care for the provision in the guidelines under 5(d)
extended hours where a percentage of the neighbors can vote to allow extended
hours for filming. This should be changed to 100%. If not, it appears that the
sanctity of his home is being sold if the new guidelines are adopted as
written.
   Toby Bronstein of Caswell Beach noted that Safe Haven filmmakers estimated
to have spent between $15 and $20 million in Southeastern, N.C. Southport had
an advantage because the book was set here. However, it is her belief that this
will not happen again and Southport must not allow the temporary inconvenience
of a few to outweigh the benefits to many. She asked that the Board consider
not ruling by ordinance and choose to embrace the guidelines that will welcome
future film production. She encouraged accommodating the production companies
and creating an environment where Hollywood and Southport can both prosper.
   Michael Rice of 2012 Bonner Bussells, stated his position is that the
proposed guidelines should be adopted which are modeled after Wilmington and is
film friendly. He cited revenues generated by the filming of Safe Haven and the
number of visitors that will come to the City. Because of the movie, this could
raise real estate taxes in Southeastern, NC and the City must create a film
friendly environment. Competition for film projects is intense in State and
out. Southport will be in competition with other areas for film projects and
must be on even terms with other localities. He encouraged adoption of the film
guidelines because of the flexibility. In closing, he stated the essence of
Southport is hospitality, which should be extended to the film industry and
encouraged adoption of the proposed film guidelines
VIII. Unfinished Business
   A. Electric System Six-Year Work Plan
   City Manager Thomas stated that Brunswick Electric Membership provided a new
multi-year plan for capital improvements to the electric system at the January
3, workshop. The five-year plan has expired.   The new multi-year system plan,
which is a goal based capital improvements plan for the electric system focuses
on five areas of cost.
1) Conversion of overhead lines to underground (over 505 of cost estimates)
2) Replacement of high priority older poles
3) Annual right of way tree trimming
4) Sectionalizing re-closer equipment
5) Replacing meters and vehicles.
   Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Barnes to adopt the electric
system multi-year plan with Brunswick Electric Membership Corporation. The vote
of approval was unanimous. (Plan on file in Office of City Manager). (Electric
Fund Revenue and Expenditure Trends and Projection Incorporated as Attachment
#1)
IX.   New Business
   A. Public comments from Southport citizens on the proposed Film Policy
   Mr. Woody Wilson of 502 West Brunswick Street stated that he went through
the entire filming process of Safe Haven and he is part of the 96% that enjoyed
the filming, and has no problem with the film industry coming back to
Southport. He encouraged the Board not to restrict the ability of the movie
industry to film in Southport while protecting the rights of the citizens. The
City has a City Manager and Tourism Director that can work with the film
industry without having an ordinance where the Aldermen will need to meet to
make a decision. He concluded by encouraging the Board to let staff manage the
day-to-day business.
   Mr. Chris Schnell of 422 West Brunswick Street stated that he and his wife
welcomed the film industry with southern hospitality. The only thing that he
asked in return was respect and consideration of their rights to enjoy their
home in peace. He stated that consideration was given during the filming of
Safe Have with the exception of fireworks going off 200 yards from their front
door five nights, which interrupted their sleep. He told the Board that nobody
from the film industry discussed any aspect of the filming with him or his
wife. He further communicated that the existing film ordinance has been in
place since 1997, and he sees no need to change the ordinance because there is
not a mandate to repeal the existing ordinance. All city ordinances and
policies are in place to protect the rights of the citizens and he asked that
the Noise Ordinance be enforced. He reiterated that they are proud citizens of
Southport and are in support of the film industry filming in the city. He
encouraged the Board when casting their vote, to place the well-being and
protecting the rights of the citizens first, and to consider retaining what has
worked well for the past sixteen years.
   Mayor Howard told citizens that the Board has received all their comments,
i.e. e-mails, and letters that will be considered when making a decision.
   B. Cannon Placement Request – Fort Johnston Property
   Retired General Don Parker, a member of the Foot Soldiers of Fort Johnston
gave a power point presentation on the proposed placement of a Civil War 10-
inch Columbiad replica cannon on Fort Johnston. In the presentation, it was
noted that Fort Johnston is an historic icon that defines the earliest origins
of the City, but there is no recognizable symbol on the grounds of its historic
past. It was proposed that their non-profit organization acquire non-firing
cannon like those at the Fort during the Civil War period. They will work with
the City, local and regional historical organizations, as well as State
entities in facilitating the long-term enhancement, presentation and
interpretation of the site in a holistic manner.
   Alderman Karn, Chair of the Fort Johnston Committee, stated he and Alderman
Barnes looked at the proposal and was favorably impressed. He received staff
feedback, but no public input. It was realized that there was no master plan
for Fort Johnston, which posed some questions of where the cannon would be
placed. They proposed to wait for a master plan, but since the proposal has
been presented to the Board, it does not have to be brought back to the
committee and stated that it is a good idea.
      City Manager Thomas stated under City policy regarding installations on
Fort Johnston property, it states that there will be a first reading on any
proposed installation. The proposed use is to be provided, described, and/or
illustrated in detail and in written form at a regular meeting. The
presentation and description shall constitute the first reading of the proposed
use. If the Board agrees by majority vote, upon first reading, that it desires
to consider the proposed use, then the proposed use shall be sent to any
appropriate agencies – including the State Historic Preservation Office for
review and comment. After comments, second reading for public comments, and
third reading for Board approval.
      City Manager Thomas posed the following questions to General Parker and
they were answered accordingly:
·   Type of cannon is 10” Columbiad replica
·   Cannon would be mounted on 10x10 brick foundation with cannon on wooden
carriage
·   Proposed site preferred is center because best enhancement
·   Site preparation would require excavation of a 10 ft. footprint that will
be 3 ¾ inches deep, which would take place within the six-inch limitation of
fill dirt (Reference letter from Stephen R. Claggett, State Archaeologist)
·   No cost to the City, monies will be raised.
      Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Poole that the presentation
constitutes the first reading and direct staff to prepare for a Public Hearing.
Vote unanimous.
      Mayor asked the City Manager to provide his recommendation.
      C) Use of City Hall - Filming “Under the Dome”
      City Manager Thomas told the Board that the Location Manager, Brooke
Barnhill for CBS-TV series “Under the Dome,” has expressed an interest in the
potential use of City Hall in the production, and wanted to know:
·   If the inside and outside of the City Hall, including the Board Chambers
can be used for filming?
·   Can the Board Chambers and/or the exterior of the City Hall be painted?
·   If the Board Chambers can be used, can the pews be removed and replaced
with chairs for purposes of filming?
   Mayor Howard asked about interruption of daily operations. City Manager
Thomas stated, from the standpoint of management; the staff could accommodate
reasonable filming inside most areas of City Hall, with the exception of the
north end (Finance and Police areas). However, the City Facilities Policy
adopted by the Board September 24, 2012 indicated that the Board Chambers is
not available for rental.
      After brief discussion, Alderman Barnes moved, seconded by Alderman Karn,
to allow the use of City Hall for filming ”Under the Dome”  and that the   City
Manager insure that there is minimum impact to City operations, the painting is
returned back to the original colors or colors that the Board or staff may
specify. Discussion: Alderman Powell asked how filming in City Hall would
benefit the City, including charges. City Manager Thomas stated that charges
would be comparable to other areas, and the potential benefits could be the
painting of City Hall, which may be to the Board’s liking and a possibility
that the chairs may be left. Alderman Powell concurred with Alderman Karn,
having a new paint job with a leaking roof is not prudent, asking if the City
may be able to negotiate for a new roof. City Manager Thomas stated the user
fees could be applied for that purpose. No further discussion, the vote of
approval was unanimous.
      D) Appointments
      Planning Board – Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Barnes to
reappoint Fred “Flick” Guerrina to the Planning Board for a three-year term.
(Term expires March 2016) 5 ayes, Alderman Poole, Barnes, Adams, Coring and
Powell. 1 no, Alderman Karn
      Forestry Committee – Alderman Karn moved to reappoint Bryan Whitworth,
Michael Fuller, and William Leuschner to the Forestry Committee for a two-year
term, motion seconded by Alderman Powell. Vote unanimous.
      Cemeteries Committee – Mayor Howard stated that he has been conversing
with people that he believes would be ideal to serve on this Committee and
would like to have citizens who are familiar with foundation or endowments
including the perpetual fund operation. Two people have volunteered to serve
but he is seeking others. Mayor Howard asked that persons interested contact
the City Clerk.
      Alderman Coring asked that a representative from the funeral business be
contacted to serve on this Committee. Mayor Howard stated that they would be
part of the Committee once appointed.
      E) No-Parking Designation – Bay Street (portion)
      Alderman Adams asked that “no parking sign”   be installed at the south
side of Bay Street between Caswell Avenue and Lord Street to protect the berms
and sidewalk, and due to motorists parking off the street in that area. City
Manager Thomas asked for the terminus between the two ends. It was suggested
that the Public Services Director mark off the exact terminus. Mayor Howard
stated if the motion passes, he would ask two Aldermen to meet with the City
Manager and Public Services Director.
       Alderman Adams moved, seconded by Alderman Powell to direct the Public
Service Director to mark the specific area and designate it “No Parking.”
Discussion: Alderman Coring asked about Section 17-12 4 of City Code that
states persons are prohibited from parking on street areas when those streets
or street areas are in a schedule kept on file in the Police Department
(presumably following a designation of same by the governing board). The Police
Department does not have a record of this segment of Bay Street being
designated as a “No Parking” area, so action needs to be taken to designate
that street section before “No Parking” signs may be erected.”
      City Attorney Isenberg explained that the general ordinance prohibits
parking on streets designated by the Board of Aldermen if signs are in place,
but the Board at anytime can include the area that has not been identified.
      City Manager Thomas reported that the Police Department could not
identify a list, but in the field compiling a list to be submitted for adoption
by the Board.
      Mayor Howard asked Aldermen Adams and Karn to work with the City Manager
and Public Works Director to provide the information needed to carry out the
Board’s wishes.
      F) Board Goals – FY 13/14
IX.   Other Business
      G) Building Improvements Project Actions
      Budget Amendment #8 & #9 – Mayor Howard asked if the amendments had been
discussed with the Building Improvements Committee. City Manager Thomas stated
no, however; the City needs a budget to pay the bills. Budget amendment # 8
reflects the lease payments that will be received as revenue from the lessee at
the 1029 North Howe Street Building, as well as expenses for operations
including utilities, repairs and maintenance. Budget Amendment #9 amends the
Building Improvements Capital Project fund to reflect the revenues received
from the lease termination agreement and the use of those funds. Alderman
Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to approve the budget amendments. Vote
unanimous.
BUDGET AMENDMENT #8 FISCAL 2012-2013
NORTH HOWE STREET BUILDING OPERATIONS FUND
   WHEREAS the City of Southport has purchased property at 1029 North Howe
Street for the purpose of serving current and future building space needs for
municipal operations; and
   WHEREAS the property will be occupied, for the foreseeable future, both
municipal and non-municipal tenants, including a non-municipal lessee; and
   WHEREAS budget provisions are needed to reflect the lease payments that will
be received as revenue, as well as the expenses for operation of the premises,
including utilities, repairs and maintenance, and common area maintenance
expenses;
   BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina:
Section 1. A property management service fund budget is adopted for the
operation and maintenance of the property at 1029 North Howe Street, with the
following estimated revenues and expenses for the balance of fiscal year 2012-
2013:
Revenues                        Approved Amount
Lease Payments from Tenant                  $28,200
Appropriations
North Howe Street Building Operations Fund         $28,200
Section 2. Any amounts of revenue that exceed expenditures in this fund shall
be transferred to the Building Improvements Fund at the end of the fiscal.
Section 3. This ordinance shall be effective upon its adoption.
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, February 14,
2013.
                              s/Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:
s/Regina Alexander, City Clerk
BUDGET AMENDMENT #9
FISCAL 2012-2013 BUDGET ORDINANCE
   WHEREAS the City of Southport has purchased real property located at 1029
North Howe Street in Southport; and
   WHEREAS the City has agreed to allow termination – with compensation – of
the lease for the first floor of the building; and
   WHEREAS the budget ordinance for the Building Improvements Capital Project
Fund needs to be amended to reflect the revenues that will be received from the
lease termination agreement and the use of those funds;
   BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the budget ordinance for the Building Improvements Capital
Project Fund for fiscal year 2012-2013 shall be amended as follows:
BUILDING IMPROVEMENTS CAPITAL PROJECT FUND
Revenues            Previous Amount      Increase      Amended Amount
Transfer from General Fund      1,033,200      -0-         $1,033,200
Transfer from Electric Fund      $ 900,000      -0-         $ 900,000
Lease Termination Payment      -0-       $36,800                     $ 36,800
                                 $1,970,000
Expenditures            $1,933,200    $36,800       $1,970,000   
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, February 14,
2013.
                           s/Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:
s/Regina Alexander, City Clerk
   b) Fire Department Grant
   City Manager Thomas reported that the Fire Department received a FEMA
Assistance Firefighters Grant to help purchase 28 new sets of turnout gear.
Total cost of the purchase is estimated at $70,000 and the grant will pay 95%
of the cost $66,500 with $3,500 to be paid out of the fire department’s budget.
Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Adams to accept the grant and adopt
the budget amendment #10 appropriating the grant funds. Vote unanimous.
BUDGET AMENDMENT #10
FISCAL 2012-2013 BUDGET ORDINANCE
   WHEREAS the City of Southport has been offered and desires to accept a
$66,500 Assistance to Firefighters Grant from the Federal Emergency Management
Agency in order to purchase updated turnout gear for firefighters; and
   WHEREAS the budget ordinance for the FY 2012-2013 fiscal year needs to be
amended to reflect the revenues and expenditures necessary to allow the use of
these funds;
   BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2012-2013 shall be
amended as follows:
GENERAL FUND
Revenues            Previous Amount      Increase      Amended Amount
FEMA AFG Grant             -0-      $66,500          $66,500
Appropriations
Fire               $634,500      $66,500       $701,000
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, February 14,
2013.
   /Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:
s/Regina Alexander, City Clerk
   Film Issue –Mayor Howard affirmed the Board’s support of the film industry
and other events that are staged in Southport, while insuring the safety and
concerns of the citizens without unnecessary interruptions to their daily
lives. He alluded to the frustration and misleading information that has been
circulated, while acknowledging that it was the intent per Board minutes of
August 2, 2012 to review and tweak the existing ordinance as needed in
accordance with the annual review that is required. He did not anticipate
repealing the existing ordinance but was aware that the Committee was working
along those lines. The current ordinance was adopted in 1997 and some of the
same issues emerged by some of those who have expressed concerns now. In light
of the rising controversy, which he stated promulgates dissatisfaction
regardless of the position the Board may take, he asked the Board to consider
keeping the existing ordinance by reaffirming its existence, rather than
adopting a document that has not been tried. He stated since 1997, many films
have been shot in Southport and the ordinance has never been an issue and he
does not see it as an issue now, but the matter needs to be resolved while
appreciating the work of the Committee.
   Alderman Powell motioned to reaffirm the existing film ordinance and that it
be reviewed annually, seconded by Alderman Poole. Discussion: Alderman Karn
stated the object is to regulate, not restrict which can be done by ordinance
or guidelines. City Attorney Isenberg stated guidelines are more flexible than
an ordinance and adopted differently. Alderman Karn noted that other film
friendly cities have guidelines rather than ordinances, and in the film
industry, sometimes impromptu decisions need to be made and guidelines would
allow this, with an ordinance, it would require Board approval. While putting
the document together, other ordinances were evaluated. The guidelines are film
friendly and fill in the holes from the existing City ordinance. They did not
make it more restrictive, but put in place additional restrictions for
notifications and protecting the rights of citizens. He asked that the document
be considered the first reading.
   Alderman Barnes, a member of the Film Committee acknowledged that a lot of
work went into the proposed guidelines, but he does not believe that it is
ready for adoption because of issues with some of the wording. He does not
believe that it should be thrown out, but he is in favor of keeping the current
ordinance because it was not the ordinance not working, but City management.
   Alderman Adams suggested to continue operating under the current ordinance,
and if there is additional critiquing, place it on the retreat agenda.
   Mayor Howard stated that he wished the matter be resolved. Alderman Coring
stated that the Committee did its due diligence with developing guidelines that
address all issues that was brought to the their attention and he is in favor
of the guidelines.
   The vote on the motion by Alderman Powell was 4 ayes, Aldermen Powell,
Poole, Adams and Barnes. 2 noes, Alderman Karn and Coring. Motion passed 4-2
   Mayor Howard announced that the Committee’s task was completed and directed
that filming be a topic at the Board’s Annual Retreat
   Sandy Lane – The Board asked at a previous workshop that this road be
maintained which is in the City limits. Alderman Powell stated that this is a
60ft designated right of way and the intersection is dangerous, and a school
bus travels this road everyday.
   Attorney Isenberg stated legally Sandy Lane is a 10 feet wide dedicated
right of way. When the city purchased the property for the pump station, it was
granted a 30 feet utility easement for access to the pump station. Within the
30 ft. utility easement, it allows the city to run their lines from the pump
station up 211 and access right to get to and from the pump station with the 30
ft. This is not a public right of way, and the city can maintain enough to get
to the pump station. In answer to a question, Mr. Isenberg stated the roadbed
is within the right of way. If it was not for the easement, the City would not
have any right to maintain.
   Robert Tucker, Director of Public Services noted that the easement runs from
211 down to the pump station. The school bus turnaround is beyond the City’s
easement on private property.
   Alderman Adams stated if the city has the right to maintain the road, it
should be done and believes the City is getting too involved in technicalities.
   Hankinsville Alley – Alderman Adams asked that the holes be filled in and
the road scraped.
   Rural Transportation Advisory Committee- Mayor Howard announced that Mayor
Betty Wallace, Town of Oak Island, and Bruce Maxwell, Town of St. James were
appointed
   Audit -City Manager Thomas noted that progress is being made on the bank
reconciliation and should be in the auditor’s office this week. The finance
officer and staff are making progress but still behind with some journal
entries.
   Mayor Howard asked, with the Board’s permission, that he talk with the
auditors because the audit is ultimately the responsibility of the Board.
   Police Department – The Board recognized Chief Dove who granted the
following promotions in his department and offered congratulations to Corporal
Simmons who was promoted to Sergeant, and Patrolman Melissa Hinnant, promoted
to Corporal. The Board asked about raises for those employees who were
promoted. City Manager Thomas stated the raises would be given and funds are in
the Police Department’s budget. Alderman Adams recommended that the raises be
retroactive.
   Board Goals FY 2013/2014 will be discussed at the Annual Retreat. Mayor
Howard will work with the City Manager to get a date and report to the Board.
XI.   City Manager Comments
   City Manager Thomas reported that Duke Power needs a full system outage in
the spring to perform maintenance to the sub-station between the hours of 1:00
-4:00 a.m. possibly in mid to late April, which will be the least inconvenient
to the citizens. Mayor Howard noted that BEMC has the capability to provide
backup power if needed.
   The County is considering setting aside the existing fire fee program and
establishing a fire tax due to the inequity in the amount of funding allocated
to some departments, expenditure of fire fee revenue, and accountability. The
change is currently under consideration.
   City Manager Thomas acknowledged the excellent work by Cindy Brochure,
Tourism Department and her volunteers for the Safe Haven movie and reception.
Mayor Howard stated that they would recognize each during the March meeting.
XII.   Board Comments
   Mayor Howard stated that the Mayors Coalition has discussed this and he will
continue to work with the other cities and bring a report back to the Board.
   Mayor Howard reported on the private public initiative that he along with
Aldermen Adams and Powell are working on to get a secondary access road in and
out of Southport. The City is a facilitator by working with the state, but not
a financial participant. They will work with the City Attorney to draft a
Memorandum of Agreement.
   Alderman Coring thanked Donnie Joyner for the Black History Commemoration
Program held over a three-day weekend in the City. He acknowledged the death of
Ms. Margaret Connaughton, active community citizen.
   Alderman Powell addressed traffic congestion in Southport, which is coming
mostly from Duke Power employees and contractors due to the outage. He believes
that communication is needed with the Plant Manager regarding safety issues.
   Alderman Poole thanked the Board for the Certificate of Recognition.
   Alderman Poole noted that the City Manager has been with the City soon to be
one year in April, and the Board needs to schedule his one-year evaluation. She
will send out forms in March for Board’s review.
   Alderman Barnes thanked Chief Deputy Miller for directing traffic on Long
Beach Road after the showing of Safe Haven. Mayor Howard acknowledged his
appreciation of the Sheriff’s Department partnership with Southport.
   Fire Department – Emergency vehicle in service.
   Rescue Squad - Ambulance has been delivered and in service.
   Mayor Howard commended the Board on the Public Safety equipment and asked
that the Board consider the need for a second ambulance in this fiscal year
budget. (FY 13-14)
   Alderman Coring stated that he and Aldermen Poole would schedule a meeting
to show the equipment to the public.
XIII.   Adjournment
   Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Barnes to adjourn the meeting at
9:47 p.m. Vote unanimous.
                     _________________________________
               
                     Mayor
_________________________________
City Clerk
FEBRUARY 20, 2013
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN             SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
FEBRUARY 20, 2013             6:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS (CITY HALL) SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Todd Coring, Ken Karn, Buddy Barnes,
         Nelson Adams, Jim Powell
ABSENT:      Aldermen Poole present via skype.
STAFF PRESENT:   Patrick Thomas, City Manager
         Regina W. Alexander, MMC, NCCMC
I.   Call to Order - 6:00 p.m.
   Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
III.   Purpose of Meeting
   Mayor Howard announced that he called the special meeting after receiving
the resignation letter from Pat Thomas, City Manager effective April 16. The
Board needs to discuss appointment of an Interim City Manager in accordance
with G.S. 143-318.11 (6) as soon as possible.
   Board members expressed their surprise at the City Manager’s sudden
resignation while commending Mr. Thomas for his professionalism, leadership and
dedication to the City.
   It was Board’s concurrence the City needed to move expeditiously in getting
an Interim City Manager so that continuity would continue with projects and
initiatives that are in place.
   Mayor Howard stated his appreciation of staff and confidence that they will
continue to work to insure a smooth transition.
Executive Session – 6:20 p.m.
   Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Barnes to enter closed session
in accordance with G.S. 143-318.11(6) to discuss qualifications and options for
an Interim City Manager. Vote unanimous.
   6:25 p.m. Clerk called into closed session.
   6:59 p.m. - Regular Session
    In regular session, Mayor Howard announced that the offer of Interim City
Manager was made to the City Clerk, but graciously turned it down.
   The Board discussed other options, but will meet at a later date.
   7:01 p.m. – Adjournment
    Alderman Powell moved to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Alderman Coring.
Vote unanimous.
                     __________________________________
                     Mayor
_______________________________
Clerk
FEBRUARY 26, 2013
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN             SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
FEBRUARY 26, 2013             6:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS (CITY HALL) SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Todd Coring, Ken Karn, Buddy Barnes,
         Nelson Adams, Jim Powell, Aldermen Poole
STAFF PRESENT:   Patrick Thomas, City Manager
         Regina W. Alexander, MMC, NCCMC
         Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
I.   Call to Order - 6:00 p.m.
   Mayor Howard called the meeting to order.
III.   Purpose of Meeting
   Mayor Howard announced pursuant to North Carolina General Statute 160A-71(b)
and in accordance with the Board of Aldermen Rules of Procedures, notice was
given of the special meeting.
   6:09 p.m.  Alderman Powell moved to go into closed session to discuss
personnel matters in accordance with G.S. 143-318.11 (6), seconded by Alderman
Coring, vote carried.
IV. Regular Session – 6:33 p.m.
   Mayor Howard announced that the Board unanimously agreed to hire Rob Gandy
as Interim City Manager effective March 18, 2013 under the same financial
arrangements as the current City Manager.
    Alderman Powell motioned to authorize approval and execution of the 90-day
contract between the City of Southport and Rob Gandy, Interim City Manager with
a month-to-month renewal, salary of $93,150 and $400 car allowance, seconded by
Alderman Coring. Vote unanimous.
   Mayor Howard announced that Mr. Thomas will be paid through April 16 and
will be available for consultation with the Interim City Manager March 18
through April 16.
V.    Board Retreat
   Alderman Powell moved to reschedule the Board’s Annual Retreat to March 16,
seconded by Alderman Karn. Vote unanimous.
   Mayor Howard asked that department heads continue formulating their
departmental budgets for FY 13-14 and the Interim Manager will put the budget
together with consultation from Mr. Thomas.
   Mayor Howard asked Mayor Pro Tem Poole to work with the City Manager to put
together a reception in his honor.
VI.   Adjournment - 6:39 p.m.
   No further business, meeting adjourned upon motion of Alderman Coring,
seconded by Alderman Powell, vote carried.
                     __________________________________
                     Mayor
______________________________
Clerk
MARCH 8, 2013
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN             SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
MARCH 8, 2013                 4:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS (CITY HALL) SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Todd Coring, Ken Karn, Buddy Barnes,
         Jim Powell and Mary Ellen Poole
ABSENT:      Alderman Adams
STAFF PRESENT:   Patrick Thomas, City Manager
         Regina W. Alexander, MMC, NCCMC
I.   Call to Order - 4:00 p.m.
   Mayor Howard called the meeting to order.
III.   Purpose of Meeting
   Mayor Howard stated pursuant to North Carolina General Statute 160A-71(b)
and in accordance with the Board of Aldermen Rules of Procedures, the special
meeting was called for the purpose of discussing real estate property located
in the Yacht Basin area and owned by First Bank for waterfront development.
   Closed Session – 4:02 p.m.
   Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Barnes to enter closed session to
discuss real property acquisition owned by First Bank and located in the Yacht
Basin for proposed waterfront development. The vote was unanimous.
   Regular Session Reconvened – 4:35 p.m.
   Mayor Howard called the meeting back to order. Alderman Powell moved,
seconded by Alderman Poole to re-convene regular session. Vote unanimous.
   Mayor Howard announced for the benefit of the press and public that the
Board discussed potential purchase of real estate property, with no action
taken.
   Appointment (Alternate) to North Carolina Eastern Municipal Power Agency
   Alderman Poole moved to add to the agenda appointment of an alternate
Commissioner to the NCEMPA, seconded by Alderman Karn. Vote unanimous.
   Alderman Karn motioned, seconded by Alderman Poole to appoint Alderman James
F. Powell, III as first alternate Commissioner to the North Carolina Eastern
Municipal Power Agency to represent the City of Southport. The vote of approval
was unanimous.
   Oath of Office administered to Alderman Powell by the City Clerk. (Oath
Incorporated as Attachment #1)
   Adjournment – 4:40 p.m.
   There was no further business, meeting adjourned upon motion of Alderman
Barnes, seconded by Alderman Powell. Vote unanimous.
                     ___________________________________
                     Mayor
___________________________
Clerk
MARCH 14, 2013
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN             REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
MARCH 14, 2013                7:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS (CITY HALL) SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Todd Coring, Ken Karn, Mary Ellen Poole, Buddy Barnes,
         Nelson Adams, Jim Powell
STAFF PRESENT:   Patrick Thomas, City Manager
         Regina W. Alexander, MMC, NCCMC
         Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
         Bonnie Bray, Finance Director
         Jerry Dove, Chief of Police
         Cindy Brochure, Tourism & Economic Development Director
         Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
I.   Call to Order - 6:00 p.m.
   Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
II.   Invocation – Alderman Barnes
   Alderman Barnes welcomed everyone and Chief Dove pronounced the invocation
   ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Howard stated, “If any member of the Board knows of
any conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with
respect to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
III.   Consent Agenda
   Alderman Karn moved to approve the consent agenda, seconded by Alderman
Powell, vote unanimous.
   A. Minutes - special meeting January 31, regular meeting minutes February
14, special meeting minutes February 20 and February 26.
   B. Committee Reports
   C. Department Reports
   D. Budget Ordinance Correction
BUDGET AMENDMENT # 11
AN ORDINANCE CORRECTING BUDGET ORDINANCE PROVISIONS
BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the budget ordinance for the 2012-2013 fiscal year is amended as
follows:
Section 1. The budget ordinance is hereby corrected to show that the original
amount appropriated for Tourism & Economic Development in the General Fund was
$110,770 and the new amount appropriated for Tourism & Economic Development
after the $14,500 addition in budget amendment #6 was $125,270.
Section 2. Section V.B. of the budget ordinance, relating to the Water and
Sewer Fund, is corrected to read as follows:
“Expenditures. The following amounts are hereby appropriated in the
Electric Water and Sewer Fund for expenses for the fiscal year beginning July
1, 2012, and ending June 30, 2013:….”
Section 3. This ordinance shall be effective upon its adoption.
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, March 14, 2013.
   E. No Parking Areas List (Attached #1)
A RESOLUTION DESIGNATING “NO PARKING” AREAS
   WHEREAS Section 17-124 of the City Code prohibits parking on streets within
the city when “No Parking” signs are erected to give notice of the prohibition,
based on a schedule of streets that is kept on file in the Police Department;
WHEREAS the Board of Aldermen wishes to confirm those street areas within the
City that should be included within the schedule of “No Parking” areas, under
the provisions of Section 17-124;
   BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport that the
following street areas shall be included within the schedule of street areas
where parking is prohibited:
·   Bay Street, south side, from the Pilot Tower west for 635 feet
·   Bay Street, north side, from the corner of the Community Building tract to
Davis Street
·   Brunswick Street, north side, from Yacht Basin Drive to the Southport
Marina
·   Brunswick Street, south side, 100 feet east from Salt Marsh Boardwalk
·   Eleventh Street (East), south side, from the corner of the City Public
Services Department to the northeastern corner of the Brunswick Village
Apartments site, 6:00 p.m.-7:00 a.m.
·   Fodale Avenue, north side, 100 feet west from the entrance of Ocean Trail
Convalescent Center
·   Howe Street (North), east side, 100 feet south from Eleventh Street to
Public Services entrance
·   Maple Street, east side, 80 feet north from entrance of Indigo Plantation
·   Moore Street (East), north side, from Fodale Avenue to Willis Street
·   River Drive, both sides, from East Moore Street to Thompson Street
·   Thompson Street, both sides, from River Drive to East Moore Street
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, March 14, 2013.
                     s/Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:
s/Regina Alexander, City Clerk
   F. Southport Market Agreement Renewal
AGREEMENT
CITY OF SOUTHPORT AND DOWNTOWN SOUTHPORT, INC.
This Agreement made and entered into this 14th day of March, 2013 by and
between the City of Southport and Downtown Southport, Inc. (DSI)
1. The City of Southport agrees that DSI may use the Fort Johnston Garrison
lawn for its Waterfront Market on Wednesdays beginning May 1, 2013 until it
concludes September 25, 2013.
2. It is mutually agreed upon that DSI will pay the amount of $25 per week for
use of the Garrison Lawn. There are 22 total weeks in the 2013 season.
3. It is also agreed upon that this Agreement is in effect until the end of
September 2013 and will be re-negotiated for 2014.
4. It is further agreed that DSI will contribute funds to the City of Southport
to assist with beautification projects for use of the Garrison lawn.
5. It is hereby mutually agreed that DSI shall be responsible for any damage to
the Fort Johnston Garrison Lawn resulting from its use thereof.
6. DSI does hereby agree to indemnity and save harmless the City of Southport
and its officers, officials, employees and agents from and against any and all
suits, claims, loss, cost, injuries, damages, charges, liability or expense
whatsoever, including court costs and attorney fees, which they may sustain or
be put to by reason of this agreement and DSI’s use of the Garrison Lawn for
the Waterfront Farmers Market or other purpose.
Now, therefore in consideration of the mutual terms set forth, it is hereby
agreed to these terms and conditions by Downtown Southport Inc. and the City of
Southport, N. C.
                     CITY OF SOUTHPORT
                     _____________________________
                     City Manager      
DOWNTOWN SOUTHPORT, INC.
_______________________________
DSI President / Peggy Popelars   
IV. Approval of Regular Agenda
   Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to approve the amended
agenda including, Resolution Supporting Beach Road Extension, Building
Improvement Committee report, and removal of VIII-J. Vote unanimous.
V. Presentations and Recognitions
A. Recognition of Visitors Center Volunteers – Alderman Poole read into the
record a resolution of appreciation and the Board presented volunteers with
individual certificates of appreciation.
RESOLUTION OF APPRECIATION
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen wishes to recognize and commend the many
dedicated volunteers of the Tourism Department for their unselfish work to the
City of Southport, and
WHEREAS, one of the essential ingredients in the foundation of our City is its
many volunteers, their dedication in providing excellent public relations, and
serving as a source of information with civic pride; and
WHEREAS, countless citizens in this community contribute valuable time and
service, oftentimes working quietly, unnoticed and giving tirelessly of their
time and energy without desire for recognition; and
WHEREAS, the dedication exhibited by these volunteers to our Department of
Tourism, and particularly the assistance and support in the Safe Haven movie
celebration, exemplifies the highest ideals of our City.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, Mayor Robert D. Howard and the Board of Aldermen
express gratitude to our numerous volunteers for outstanding service to the
City of Southport.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that this Resolution of Appreciation is presented this
14 th day of March 2013, along with individual Certificates of Recognition to
each volunteer.
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard
                      Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
City Clerk
   B. Maritime Museum Expansion Concept – Friends of Museum
   Mr. Walt Madsen, Board member, Friends of the Maritime Museum and Connie
Keller, Architect, presented a 3-D power point presentation showing a
preliminary concept for expansion of the Maritime Museum. They propose to
expand into the area that is currently used for storage space by the City’s
Parks and Recreation Department. The conceptual drawing is to make the Board
aware of plans and begin the process of meetings to get the land allocated.
   Mr. Madsen answering questions, stated if the concept is approved, plans are
to raise the funds, the same as they did before. At this time, they are not
asking for financial support from the City. Alderman Powell asked about storage
containers on site, which is used by the Museum and others by the Parks and
Recreation Department. Alderman Adams commented about previous contributions
from the City and they keep asking the City for more when the grounds have to
be utilized by all entities i.e. City.
   Alderman Barnes referenced the resolution and board policy adopted January
10, 2013 stating that three readings must be held for any proposed use of the
Fort Johnston property, which involves installation of structures or additions.
Mayor Howard stated that the policy would apply for this request. Alderman
Barnes asked if the Museum would be asking the City for funding. Mr. Madsen
acknowledged until they put the plan together, he will not say that they will
not come back to the City for assistance. They are asking for 10 ft. off Moore
Street, and 22 ft. off Davis Street. The space is concrete where they propose
to expand.
City Manager Thomas informed the Board in his report, that this is preliminary
information and feedback is not intended to constitute a “first reading” within
the meaning of the Fort Johnston Installation Policy.
Mr. Madsen in response to a question posed by Alderman Coring stated that they
met with the Parks and Recreation Director, Ms Hemphill and City Manager
Thomas. There were no further questions or comments.
VI. Public Comments
   Rhodes Messick, of the Southport Lions Club informed the Board that the
Lions Club maintains “The Welcome to Southport” sign near Wal-Mart and proposes
to amend the sign to keep with the Safe Haven connection. The sign would read
“Our Safe Haven” or “Welcome to Our Safe Haven.”  Mayor Howard asked that the
artwork be presented and work with staff so the City will be aware of the
design. In answer to a question posed by Alderman Barnes, City Attorney
Isenberg stated members of the Lions Club need not recuse themselves if a vote
is required. He stated that the Lions Club maintains the sign i.e. lights, but
the City pays for the electric bill.
   Alderman Coring questioned whether the City performs maintenance on or
around the sign and asked who constructed the sign. The Clerk will research and
make this information available to the Board.
   Mr. Roy Daniels expressed concern about the installation of lights installed
around the base of the Indian Trail tree in Keziah Park. Concern was expressed
that this may damage the tree roots and presented pictures for review. The
Board acknowledged his concerns and directed staff to look into the matter.
VII. Unfinished Business
         No unfinished business
VIII. New Business
   A. Street Resurfacing Contract Award- Pat Thomas, City Manager
   City Manager Thomas reported that the Public Services Director prepared
specifications and advertised for bids to perform the 2013 street surfacing
program, i.e. approximately 13,092 square yards of 1.5-inch asphalt overlay,
approximately 297 square yards of pavement removal, and necessary adjustments
of manholes, valves and other related work. The amount of the low bid exceeded
the amount budgeted. Most of the streets can be done with the exception of one
block of South Howe. The list includes all of the near-term resurfacing
priorities approved in May 2012 except for a one-block section of East Nash
Street, which is being postponed until some utility line replacements can be
completed.
·   North Atlantic Avenue, from East Leonard to East West Street
·   South Howe Street, from Moore Street to Bay Street
·   Fodale Avenue, from Mitchell to East Nash Street
·   North Lord Street, from West Nash to West Brown
·   Kingsley Street, from South Rhett to East Moore
·   Long Leaf Drive, from Fodale to Herring
     Bidder                     Bid Amount
   Southern Asphalt                  $149,143.25
   Surface Max                     $185,984.68
   Barnhill Contracting                  $187,931.45
   The bids exceeded the budgeted amount of $100,000.00 and Southern Asphalt,
the low bidder agreed to include the following streets this fiscal year.
·   North Atlantic Avenue from East Leonard to East West Street
·   Fodale Ave from Mitchell to East Nash
·   N Lord St from West Nash to West Brown
·   Long Leaf Drive from Fodale to Herring
·   Kingsley Street from South Rhett to East Moore
   The Board questioned South Howe Street not being included for paving. City
Manager Thomas explained that the bids had come in over budget. Mayor Howard
asked about the amount of monies in the Powell Bill fund balance and
recommended some of these reserves be used to pave South Howe Street. Finance
Director Bonnie Bray told the Board at the end of FY 12, approximately $300,000
was in fund balance. Mr. Thomas noted that $110,000 was already budgeted from
the reserve. Ms. Bray stated that $105,000 was received in FY 13, bringing the
total to $215,000 that has been appropriated. Alderman Adams stated that the
City is not in the business of saving Powell Bill monies and the City should
use these funds to meet paving priorities. Alderman Powell motioned, seconded
by Alderman Barnes to award the bid to Southern Asphalt for $149,143.25, which
includes $49,143.25 from the Powell Bill Reserve Fund to resurface South Howe
Street. The vote was unanimous.
   B. Final Plat Approval - Jonas Creek Phase One
   City Manager Thomas advised that Cottage Point, LLC has applied for final
plat approval of Jonas Creek PUD, Phase I, an area of 12 lots located on
Arabella Lane and McKenzie Street between West Owen and West St. George. The
plat includes the recombination of Lot 1 and 2, in the Cottage Point
subdivision with Jonas Creek Phase 1. It meets all applicable UDO requirements.
   Alderman Barnes informed the Board that his company has performed some work
for the developer and asked to be recused from the vote. Alderman Adams moved,
seconded by Alderman Poole to recuse Alderman Barnes, vote unanimous.
   Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to approve the final plat
for Jonas Creek PUD, Phase I upon recommendation of staff, the vote of approval
was unanimous. (Alderman Barnes reseated after being recused from the vote)
   C. Final Plat – Rivermist Block 6
   City Manager Thomas advised the Board that Centex Homes has requested
approval of the final plat for Rivermist Block 6, an area of 39 lots on Capstan
Court and Windlass Road off of J. Swain Boulevard. The plat conforms to the
approved preliminary plan and meets all applicable UDO requirements. The
developer is in the process of acquiring a performance bond that will be
submitted to the City.
   Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Powell to approve the final plat
for Rivermist Block 6 contingent upon submission of a satisfactory performance
bond or other acceptable form of improvements guarantee prior to the recording
of the plat. The vote of approval was unanimous.
   D. Proposed Zoning Text Amendment – Accessory Structures
   City Manager Thomas advised that an application was submitted by Richard
Bandera to amend Article 11.4(G) of the UDO to allow accessory structures
forward of front building line in R-10 districts provided the lot area was .75
acre or greater and the structure was set back 103 feet or more. These type
structures are not currently permitted in any district. This request was
presented to the Planning Board and they proposed that this issue warrant
further review and appointed a review committee. The committee submitted a
recommendation to the Planning Board and staff accepted the recommendation from
the Planning Board and is presenting it to the Board of Aldermen for public
hearing.
   Alderman Poole motioned for Public Hearing April 11, 2013, seconded by
Alderman Barnes. Vote of approval was unanimous.
   E. Use of Former Visitors Center
   City Manager Thomas asked the Board about the former Visitor’s Center while
citing three possible uses. He noted that the building is handicap accessible
and presented alternatives i.e. meeting room and rentable community space,
commercial real estate, activities center or annex for the library. He asked
that the Board give staff direction for future use of the building. Board
consensus was to place this item on the retreat agenda.
   F. Video Streaming of Board Meetings
   Alderman Karn gave a presentation on options for video streaming/
broadcasting of Board meetings. Options presented were live broadcast online,
live broadcast via television or a broadcast of edited index videos after
meetings. He told the Board that the Town of Leland uses You Tube, while Town
of Oak Island broadcasts via television, which cost more than $250,000 for
initial set-up. Alderman Karn told the Board it depends on what they wish to
pursue, but it would be more cost effective to use television than live
broadcasting via internet.
   Alderman Barnes suggested a survey be conducted to gauge public interest and
does not see spending City money if the public is not interested. Alderman
Adams concurred. Mayor Howard stated the goal is to be more transparent and
accessible to the citizens. Alderman Coring suggested holding meetings in
various locations throughout the City. He also informed the Board that South
Brunswick High School film students conduct live broadcasts and could possibly
assist the City. The Board should consider whether it want to pursue this
avenue. Mayor Howard noted that a meeting has been scheduled for a presentation
on April 3, from a company that will present a similar program to the County
and other municipalities. Mayor Howard asked that this item be placed on the
retreat agenda.
   G. Fort Johnston Committee Dissolution
   Alderman Karn recommended the Fort Johnston Committee be abolished because
the Parks and Recreation Department manages Fort Johnston, which also has an
advisory Board. The initial task of the Fort Johnston Committee was to evaluate
proposals for the property and make recommendations; however, standing
committees and new board procedures make the committee redundant and
unnecessary. The Board of Aldermen recently approved a policy for uses of Fort
Johnston property, which requires three readings before approval by the
Aldermen, which makes any recommendations from the Committee unnecessary.
Alderman Adams and Poole recommended the Committee remain in place because of
its historical knowledge.
   H. Potential Acquisition – Movie Cottage
   Ms. Cindy Brochure, Tourism Director reported that Relativity Media
contacted her and offered to donate the Safe Haven movie set Katie’s Cottage to
the City if it will assume responsibility for removing the cottage from its
location at Pleasant Oaks Plantation off NC Hwy 133. It will cost approximately
$15,000 to disassemble and rebuild the cottage in Southport. The Board asked
about the maintenance and proposed location. Alderman Adams stated his
indifference because the City has enough on-going projects, Alderman Barnes
stated his opposition due to cost for maintenance and possible upkeep in the
future, and prefers to see City money spent on needed equipment. Alderman
Powell noted that it is a good project for a non-profit organization. It was
Board consensus to reject the offer of Katie’s Cottage.
   I. Personnel Policy Amendment – Retiree Health Insurance
   Mr. Thomas stated during the FY 12-13 budget review process, it was noted
that the City has incurred a significant financial obligation for payment of
employee retirement benefits under its policy. These benefits are expected to
cost over $150,000 in the current fiscal year – the equivalent of about 2.4
cents ad valorem tax levy.
   Concern was expressed by the Board about the financial sustainability of the
retiree health insurance program. Indications were given that the Board would
like to curtail or eliminate this benefit program for persons who have not yet
entered city employment.
   A resolution was presented for Board consideration, which will not affect
any current retirees or current full-time employees.
   Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Powell to adopt the following
resolution amending the Personnel Policy with regard to retiree health
insurance effective immediately.
A RESOLUTION AMENDING THE PERSONNEL POLICY
WITH REGARD TO RETIREE HEALTH INSURANCE
   WHEREAS the City of Southport Personnel Policy, Article IX, Section 3,
provides for certain health, life, and dental insurance benefits to be paid to
retirees, and
   WHEREAS the Board of Aldermen has determined that the cost of such benefits
is not financially sustainable in the future; and
   WHEREAS the Board of Aldermen desires to discontinue such benefits for
persons who are hired or become creditable service employees going forward, but
to leave unchanged such benefits as they may apply to current retirees or
creditable service employees;
   BE IT RESOLVED that the Personnel Policy of the City of Southport is amended
by adding the language shown below, underlined, to Article IX, Section 3, of
the Personnel Policy:
Section 3. Retirement Insurance
The City shall provide membership in the North Carolina Local Government
Employees Retirement System for all regular employees who will be eligible
under the rules and regulations of the system. The City and the employee will
share the costs for membership at a ratio determined by General Statute and the
LGERS.
The City will offer contribution of health, life, and dental coverage to
employees retiring from the City with total creditable service and eligibility
as defined and accepted by the North Carolina Local Government Employees
Retirement System.
Employees retiring with five (5) years of creditable service may continue in
the City’s group health, life and dental plans, if allowed by the plan
provider, at the employee’s expense. Employees retiring with ten (10) years of
creditable service may continue in the City’s group health, life and dental
plans, if allowed by the plan provider, with the employee’s coverage paid at
50% by the City and 50% paid by the employee. Family or spouse coverage
premiums shall be paid 100% by the employee. Employees retiring with 20 years
of creditable service may continue in the City’s group health, life and dental
plans with the City paying 100% of the premium for the employee’s coverage and
the employee paying 100% of the premium for family or spouse coverage. When the
employee becomes eligible for Medicare, such coverage in the City’s group plans
will be the Medicare supplement, if offered by the group provider.
The second and third paragraphs of this section, relating to the payment of
health, life, and dental insurance coverage for retired employees, shall not
apply to any employee who begins creditable service in the retirement system as
a City of Southport employee after March 14, 2013 or who is hired as a City
employee after March 14, 2013.
Adopted in regular session by the Southport Board of Aldermen, March 14, 2013.
                                 s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:
/Regina Alexander, Clerk
   J. Resolution – Requesting Addition to Long Beach Road Extension (J. Swain
Blvd)
   Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to adopt a resolution
asking that the collector road J. Swain Boulevard be connected to the proposed
Long Beach Road extension and forward a copy of the resolution to the North
Carolina Department of Transportation, Senator Rabon and Representative Iler.
Vote unanimous.
A RESOLUTION REQUESTING AN ADDITION
TO THE LONG BEACH ROAD EXTENSION PROJECT
   WHEREAS the North Carolina Department of Transportation is preparing to
undertake the construction of the Long Beach Road Extension (R-3324) from NC 87
to NC 133; and
   WHEREAS J. Swain Boulevard, a collector road in Southport, extends from a
point 2100 feet south of the NC 211/Long Beach Road intersection to a point
within 650 feet of the planned Long Beach Road Extension; and
   WHEREAS the extension of this collector road would significantly facilitate
the flow of northbound traffic from NC 211 and the Dutchman’s Village
development to the Long Beach Road Extension; and
   WHEREAS the City has requested and the property owner has indicated his
willingness to extend J. Swain Boulevard to the Long Beach Road Extension;
   BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the City of Southport requests that the Department of
Transportation include, in the design for the Long Beach Road Extension, the
roadway connection of J. Swain Boulevard to the extension.
   Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, March 14,
2013.
                     s/ Robert D. Howard
Attest: s/ Regina Alexander, Clerk
 IX. Other Business
   None
X. City Manager Comments
   Mr. Thomas informed the Board that Jerry Haire, COG Consultant Planner would
be leaving the job with City of Southport for a full time job at Carolina
Beach. Mr. Chris May, Director of Council of Governments is seeking a suitable
replacement.
   Mr. Thomas thanked the Board, staff and volunteers for their service and
friendship during his tenure with the City.
   The Board stated their appreciation and wished Mr. Thomas well.
   Mayor Howard asked the City Manager about the $14,500 budget amendment
advance to cover the purchase price of movie tickets for the Safe Haven movie
and reception. Mr. Thomas stated the City budgeted the anticipated revenue and
anticipated expenses, and the net over budgeted expense was approximately
$1500. A revenue line item was established in the general fund.
   Mr. Thomas stated that he would provide the Board with an in-depth written
report on the progress of the audit.
XI. Board Comments
   Alderman Barnes thanked Alderman Karn for the in-depth report on video
broadcasting.
   Alderman Poole announced date of Board Retreat, Saturday, April 6, 2013, 9:
00 a.m. – 2:00 p.m.
   Alderman Poole announced that a tennis event would be held on the new courts
March 16, 2013.
   Alderman Adams asked if the lights on the trees in downtown Southport are
metered, or considered line loss. City Manager stated technically line loss.
Alderman Poole stated the merchants asked that they remain on during the
evening hours.
   Mayor Howard asked that the Building Improvements Committee insure that the
west end of the Rescue Squad building is bricked.
   Alderman Barnes asked about the landscape at the Burrington Street pump
station. Public Services Director advised that the plants have been ordered.
   Alderman Coring welcomed the three-hundred N. C. Baptist Men Emergency
Response Team to the City.
   Alderman Coring asked if the lights in the trees were staying on during the
summer months all the time. Mayor Howard stated that he would ask staff to look
into this matter and cost associated with lights burning.
   Alderman Powell noted that funds are budgeted for bricking the Rescue Squad
Building.
Mayor Howard noted that Mr. Tucker, Public Services Director has a proposal in
hand, but it has not been provided to the Building Improvement Committee.
   Alderman Barnes asked about the landscaping around the Burrington Street
Pump Station. Mr. Tucker advised that the plant beds have been prepared and
plants ordered.
XIII. Adjournment – 8:30 p.m.
   No further business, the meeting adjourned upon motion of Alderman Powell,
seconded by Alderman Poole, vote carried.
                  ____________________________________
                  Mayor
_______________________________________
Clerk
MARCH 18, 2013
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN             SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
MARCH 18, 2013                6:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS (CITY HALL) SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Todd Coring, Ken Karn, Buddy Barnes,
         Jim Powell, Adams and Mary Ellen Poole
STAFF PRESENT:   Rob Gandy, Interim City Manager
         Regina W. Alexander, MMC, NCCMC
I.   Call to Order - 6:00 p.m.
   Mayor Howard called the meeting to order.
III.   Purpose of Meeting
   Mayor Howard stated pursuant to North Carolina General Statute 160A-71(b)
that in accordance with the Board of Aldermen Rules of Procedures, the special
meeting was called to discuss real estate acquisition.
   Mayor Howard also announced that the Consulting Planner’s last day is
Thursday, March 21, who is a contract employee through Cape Fear Council of
Governments. Mayor Howard stated that Alderman Powell asked that this matter be
placed on the agenda for consideration.
   Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Powell to place the planning
position on the agenda. Discussion: Alderman Karn questioned the need to
discuss this position since it comes under the purview of the City Manager. No
further discussion, the vote was unanimous.
   Closed Session – 6:02 p.m.
   Alderman Coring moved, seconded by Alderman Powell to enter closed session
at 6:03 p.m. to discuss real property acquisition. Vote unanimous.
   Regular Session Reconvened – 6:35 p.m.
   Mayor Howard announced that the Board discussed potential property
acquisition and the Board gave directives to proceed with negotiations.
   The Board briefly discussed the planning position, but no action taken
Adjournment – 6:40 p.m.
   No further business the meeting was adjourned upon motion of Alderman Poole,
seconded by Alderman Barnes. Vote unanimous.
                     ___________________________________
                                 
                     Mayor
________________________________________
City Clerk
APRIL 6, 2013
RETREAT MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN    RETREAT MINUTES
APRIL 6, 2013        9:00 A.M.
FIRE DEPARTMENT, EOC SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Todd Coring, Ken Karn, Mary Ellen Poole, Buddy Barnes,
         Nelson Adams (Excused at 10:00 a.m.), Jim Powell
STAFF PRESENT:   Rob Gandy, Interim City Manager
         Regina W. Alexander, MMC, NCCMC
         Bob Grant, Administrative Support Specialist
         Robert Tucker, Public Services Director
         Gregory Cumbee, Fire Chief
         Bonnie Bray, Finance Director
1.   Call to Order - 9:00 a.m.
   Mayor Howard called the meeting to order.
2.   Invocation
   Alderman Karn welcomed everyone and pronounced invocation.
3.   Report of the NCEMPA Commissioner
   Mr. Paul Fisher, Southport’s representative on the North Carolina Eastern
Municipal Power Agency Committee reported the following:
·   Partnership with Progress Energy is now Duke Power
·   32 cities in Eastern North Carolina providing wholesale power
·   Own a portion of five generating plants, 3 nuclear and 2 coal fired
·   Southport jointed in ElectriCities1982
·   As of January 2013, the Power Agency debt was $2,025,720,000 with
Southport’s portion of the debt $14,461,615, with a share of 0.7139%
·   Second highest taxpayer in Brunswick County, efforts to get relief from
taxes has not been successful.
·   Power agency sets wholesale rates which are projected to increase by 3% in
2015-2020
·   Retail rates are set by the municipalities
·   Average for 1000 KW      NCEMPA      $142
·               NC          101
·               Progress      106
·               Southport       110 – R-12
·                        152 - R-1
·   Goals encouraged the Board to provide affordable, reliable and clean energy
by 2026.
·   Programs to conserve energy include weatherization, housing codes, and LED
streetlights.
·   Switch to alternative sources of fuel where possible. Consider using
something other than oil in the City fleet of vehicles.
·   Keep grid in top shape- reduce line loss
·   Underground electrical system
·   Load management, continue to work and support this program.
·   Execute updated work plan and the city should work to underground the
electrical system. 2026, the City should be underground and this is when the
city’s debt will be paid.
   City Manager Gandy reported that the City has several sections that can be
underground, but it would be difficult in the historical district because of
the Live Oak trees.
   Alderman Powell stated when Piedmont Natural Gas approached the City
concerning the installation of natural gas lines, it was understood that if
they came in and cut ditches, they would install conduit for the City to run
electric lines. They started boring and installed lines, but this was not done.
The City should seek an avenue for enforcement because Southport does not
recoup anything for natural gas. Mr. Fisher stated that this was written into
the documents that if a trench was cut, it had to be wide enough for conduit.
He did state that some conduit is installed in the Yacht Basin area.
   Alderman Adams suggested the City contact Brunswick Electric Membership
Corporation (BEMC) about retiring the City’s debt before 2026. Mayor Howard
stated that this item would be added to the City goals.
4.   Fire Department - Chief Cumbee
   Chief Cumbee reported that the Viper Radios have been received.
·   Substation on Hwy 211 near River Mist Subdivision should be pursued. The
original developer promised land to the City. (Jeff Earp)
·   Howe Street emergency light installed in front of fire department
·   City awarded a $70,000 FEMA grant to purchase gear.
·   Review of contract between the City and Duke Power is ongoing.
·   Fire Fee – Chief Cumbee discussed with the Board a proposal by Brunswick
County to change the funding source for County Fire Services. It their idea
that the fire fee revenue does not match needs within some districts. The
Policy Committee recommended to the Commissioners that the existing fire fee
supported district plan be abandoned and a countywide tax system be
implemented. The rationale is fire fees are based on the size of a residential
structure, commercial structure or acreage tract calculated on an inclining
scale as opposed to ad valorem property taxes, which are based on value of the
structure or parcel. In most cases, if the fire tax were levied at the same
rate in each district, the revenue disparity would be similar. The current fire
fee has been in effect eleven years, and Southport has always operated within
its budget. Some departments have paid firefighters and volunteers, which cost
about $53,000 annually per firefighter. He stated if the City of Southport had
to implement this process, the budget would increase approximately $600,000.
Most fire chiefs are opposed to the fire tax, which could have a tremendous
effect on departments and services, particularly volunteer fire departments.
Chief Cumbee asked that the Board send a letter or resolution opposing the fire
tax and to retain the current method to collect fire fees. Mayor Howard agreed
that this could have a major impact for years to come and asked that a letter
be written to the County Commissioners opposing a fire tax be placed on the
April 11 agenda for consideration.
5.   Public Services – Robert Tucker, Director
   At the March meeting, the Board of Aldermen authorized a contract with
Southern Asphalt, Inc for resurfacing city streets. The project will be funded
by Powell Bill funds. The amount of the contract is $146,143.25, which will
provide for repairs. The Board will need to adopt a budget amendment at its
April meeting before a notice to proceed can be issued. The construction time
is 60 calendar days. Construction is anticipated to occur late April through
May with the initial work to occur on the Howe Street segment.
·   North Atlantic Avenue from East Leonard to East West Street
·   Fodale Avenue from Mitchell to East Nash Street
·   North Lord Street from West Nash to West Brown
·   Long Leaf from Fodale to Herring
·   Kingsley from South Rhett to East Moore
·   Howe Street from Moore to Bay Street
   The City currently has 29 miles of City maintained streets. At the current
rate of expenditure, all streets would be resurfaced every 25 years and with
the rate of funding at $100,000 annually, the City could resurface its streets
every 33 years.
   Mayor Howard expressed concern that the paving had not commenced and noted
the Board approved this action at their last meeting and if the matter was a
budget amendment, he could have called a special meeting and as it stands, the
project is 30 days late beginning.
   Alderman Barnes asked about the status of Bay Street, Yacht Basin and Short
Streets. Mr. Tucker explained that the Board established the paving priorities
in 2012. There has not been a formal study of paving needs in the city for
several years and his goal is to conduct a study of all city streets and
conduct a paving rating survey using DOT methods. Upon completion, this will be
submitted to the Board with a recommended list of streets based on the survey.
He will inspect the streets referenced and determine if some intermediate work
can be done to repair them temporarily.
   USACE Revetment Project
   Mr. Tucker stated that the City has been working cooperatively with the
Corps of Engineers to permit and construct a stone revetment along the
waterfront at the Bay Street pump station to reduce erosion. The Corps has
completed their design and the City Manager is conducting negotiations for the
required permanent easements from the affected property owners. They anticipate
being able to secure the required easements as an in-kind contribution to the
project. The City’s current projected share of the funding is estimated at
$180,000. The total cost is anticipated at $540,000 and it is proposed to bid
and award the project by September 1, 2013 for construction.
   Alderman Barnes asked about the impact to neighbors from the trucks. City
Manager Gandy stated they will be cognizant of this and neighbors will be
notified when work begins.
   Proposed Wastewater Planning Study
   Mr. Tucker stated that the city receives routine requests from property
owners and developers in areas that are within the city’s designated sewer
service area that are not serviceable by the current wastewater collection
system. A significant number of these requests have come in along the Howe
Street corridor and in the area near Dosher Cutoff. The city and county have
agreed to make transfers of ownership and operation of the existing Rivermist
and Sandy Lane Pump Stations from the City to the county while reserving some
additional wastewater flow capacity to serve future growth. One element of the
agreement is that the city is granted a single force main connection to the
Boiling Springs Lake force main that is currently under construction. In order
that the city may develop its future wastewater collection infrastructure in an
orderly and efficient manner, staff recommends that the Board of Aldermen give
favorable consideration to funding a wastewater planning study of the remaining
service area to determine the best feasible location for future pump stations
and interceptor lines. Mayor Howard asked that the Utility Committee discuss
this issue.
   Rescue Squad Building
   The remaining work to weatherproof the portion of the old fire station for
Rescue Squad has been completed. The City needs to determine how the remaining
area will be utilized in the future and make improvements as necessary. Mayor
Howard referred this issue to the Building Improvements Committee.
   Wastewater Odor and Fat Oil and Grease Control
   The Utility Committee requested staff to prepare formal request for
proposals from private contractors to provide this service. The request for
proposals have been received and staff made its evaluations based upon
including proposed technology, ability of the proposal to provide service and
costs. Recommendations for award will be presented to the Utility Committee on
Monday, April 8.
   Alderman Powell stated the Board is not in the position to issue contracts
until it knows the City’s financial condition. Mayor Howard asked that staff,
with the Committee, determine if this is the most economical and feasible way
to pursue this matter. A contract will not be awarded until the Board knows the
financial condition of the City.
   Mr. Tucker informed the Board on April 27, a system wide utility shut down
would take place for Progress Energy to perform repair work inside of the sub-
station. All appropriate notifications will be given, i.e. City’s website,
newspaper and utility bills.
6.   Finance – Bonnie Bray, Finance Director
   FY 2011-2012 Audit
   FY-12 audit is nearly complete, with the help of Art Cottrell, an outside
auditor that was hired to assist her with accounting to correct financial
statements that will be submitted to Berry, Padgett & Chandler by April 10.
Related fieldwork and testing to verify the integrity of the data will be
performed by the outside audit team over the following month, while work
continues in house on related full accrual documents, including depreciation,
the Management Discussion & Analysis, disclosure notes and required
supplementary information. She stated that financial data has been uncovered
that occurred in FY 13 while trying to get FY 12 corrected. She went from
eighteen months of no bank reconciliations down to five with outside
assistance, but confident that the information provided to the Auditor is
correct.
She stated that Menton has provided a revised contract, which identifies
completion of the audit by May 31, 2013. Interim City Manager Rob Gandy has
been in phone contact with Sharon Edmundson, of the NC Local Government
Commission, regarding the extended schedule. A letter of explanation is being
prepared for transmittal with the contract after review by the Board of
Aldermen during the April 11 meeting.
   FY 2013-2014 Budget
   Ms. Bray told the Board that she has been unable to provide monthly
financial data because of the financial records and the inaccuracies. Once all
bank statements are reconciled and financial records are updated, she will
provide a complete history of the City’s finances.
Finance staff has been working closely with department heads since January to
ensure the financial data they need to develop their FY14 budgets was properly
recorded and accessible to them. However, the accuracy of FY12 records has been
in doubt until just recently, and the accumulated data for FY13 has not yet
been verified. Consequently, they have been operating without a vital piece of
budget machinery, i.e., a complete picture of the City’s fiscal history.
   Mayor Howard asked when could the Board expect to know the financial
condition of the city and what is needed to expedite the work. Ms. Bray told
the Board because her staff does not have an accounting background, she
recommended Mr. Cottrell continue as an outside resource for the next month
working around his availability. Mayor Howard asked if she had any other
options. Ms. Bray told the Board that Mr. Cottrell’s hourly rate is $60 an
hour, but he    understands the accounting and know what to look for. Another
factor is the City’s accounting software is DOS based, and not user friendly.
   Alderman Poole suggested that the problems be identified i.e. dates
initiated, completion and the cost involved. Aldermen Coring, Barnes and others
expressed their dismay at the financial condition of the City records and
reiterated getting it correct is a priority. Alderman Coring stated that the
Board could not establish goals for the city if they do not know the financial
condition. Mayor Howard and the Board agreed before it can move forward with
planning for FY 13-14, they must have correct financial data.
   Budget Amendment: Alderman Barnes motioned, seconded by Alderman Powell to
approve a budget amendment to appropriate up to $10,000 and to authorize the
City Manager to use the funds to assist the Finance Director in getting the
financial accounting up to date. The vote was unanimous. Motion passed.
(Budget Amendment #12)
Ms. Bray told the Board that she expected to overcome this deficiency
comprehensively in the near future, when examination of both FY12 and FY13 data
is complete. In the meantime, as departments continue to identify their needs,
finance staff will meet specific challenges on a case-by-case basis, applying
resources as needed and available. A good deal of work has already been
accomplished.
In addition, legislative actions currently being discussed in Raleigh are
shifting the landscape for predictions of future resources. Outcomes of the
following two, in particular, could have a significant impact:
·   Unemployment Insurance – The current pay go arrangement used by
municipalities to fund unemployment benefits would be replaced by advance
funding of a share of anticipated future claims
·   Tax reductions – Eliminations of privilege license, electric franchise, and
beer and wine taxes would be replaced by corresponding increases in other local
tax revenues
In answer to questions by Alderman Powell, City Manager Gandy stated that he
cannot budget until he has solid figures, but preliminary budgets have been
received from department heads, and if need be, he would consider an interim
budget.
   Powell Bill
At the end of June 2012, the city had approximately $300,000 in the Powell Bill
fund balance. During FY13, the city planned to use approximately one-half of
that, or $154,800, to pay for street-related expenditures of $250,000,
including $110,000 in work ordinarily performed by the street department. In
addition, the city budgeted $96,000 from the State in new Powell Bill revenue
during FY13.
Proposed Budget Amendment #14 is on the April 11 board meeting agenda and would
appropriate another $60,000 for expanded street work approved during the March
14 board meeting. That would leave approximately $86,200 in the Powell Bill
fund balance, with the city having spent a total of $310,000 on related street
repairs during FY13. Because we actually received $7,000 more than was budgeted
in new revenue from the State this year ($103,000 vs. $96,000), the additional
income will potentially increase the Powell Bill fund balance to $103,200 at
year-end assuming the current level of planning.
   Visitor’s Center Store
The Visitor Center has sold approximately 150 t-shirts since the beginning of
the year. Tourism Director Cindy Brochure estimates the center could double or
triple these sales from now until June 30, between normal summer traffic and
the expanded flow brought on by “Safe Haven.” However, the t-shirt stock is
currently exhausted and the expenditure budget to purchase more is depleted, so
capitalizing on this opportunity will require a budget amendment. A relatively
small amount -- less than $3,000 -- would be needed to buy sufficient stock for
the projected target. Sales would replenish the General Fund appropriation in
full and return a nice profit. Mrs. Brochure recommended increasing the revenue
and expenditure lines for this activity in the FY-14 budget. They are currently
$15,000 and $10,000, respectively.
Mayor Howard told the Finance Director that it was the Board’s intent to use
the $10,000 as seed money and the profit would be used to replenish the
inventory rather than be placed in the City’s general fund, the same as an
enterprise fund. Ms. Bray stated that she would do some research as whether the
store is making money and check with other entities on how they handle matters
such as this. The Board concurred that it is their desire that the store be
self-supporting.
Budget Amendment:  Alderman Karn motioned, seconded by Alderman Poole to
approve a budget amendment to temporarily increase the revenue and expenditure
line from $10,000 to $13,000 from the general fund balance to restock
merchandise in the Visitor’s Center Store.
The vote of approval was unanimous. Motion passed.
7.   Future Use of Former Visitor’s Center
      Mr. Gandy discussed with the Board the best use of the former Visitor’s
Center building. Mr. Gandy stated an option is to convert it to a public rental
facility for smaller functions because it has adequate parking. He asked the
Finance Director to gather comparable rental rates for a building of this size.
      Alderman Barnes stated that the City has a special rate for non-profits
for use of the Community Building and if smaller groups could be moved to this
facility, it would not cost as much for utilities. Mayor Howard noted that the
July 4 Committee gave the building to the City and the City in turn donates use
of the Community Building for two weeks during July 4, and sometimes most of
the building is not needed. Rental of this facility could be used to
accommodate some of these smaller groups, and be an annex of the Community
Building. Staff can create a policy and procedure for rental.
      Alderman Coring asked if the City would need use of the facility during
the relocation of offices. Mayor Howard stated the City owns the building and
can use it any time.
      Alderman Barnes moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to assign the old
Southport Visitor’s Center as an annex to the Community Building. The vote of
approval was unanimous. Motion passed.
8.   1029 Howe Street Building
      City Manager Gandy stated that he looked over drafts of the floor plan
for the 1029 building.
He asked the Board to consider the option of turning over the current City Hall
(201 East Moore) to the Police Department and the new facility house other
departments. Alderman Barnes stated his support of the City Manager’s idea.
Alderman Karn stated the City purchased the building with the intent to move
all departments and he supports the original plan. Alderman Coring looking over
the floor plan reiterated his support of the original plan to move all
departments. He stated the need to move Code Enforcement and the Police
Department. He agreed with City Manager Gandy about his fondness for the City
Hall and downtown, while realizing that the City limits is moving farther out
through annexation. Alderman Powell stated he is receptive to the City
Manager’s idea and brought up the public restroom situation. Mr. Gandy asked
for flexibility in developing a new workable layout for the 1029 building.
Mayor Howard stated the workflow rests with the City Manager. Alderman Poole
suggested giving the City Manager the authority to develop other options,
realizing the Board voted to move everyone, but they have to look at ways to
keep City Hall maintained.
    It was Board consensus to give the City Manager authority to work with the
Building Improvements Committee to develop options for the 1029 Building for
Board consideration.
9.   Indian Trail Oak Tree
   Upon motion of Alderman Poole, seconded by Alderman Coring, the Board
unanimously approved a $2000 expenditure from the Public Services budget for
subsurface fertilization of the Indian Trail Oak Tree in Keziah Park.
10.   Live Broadcast of Board Meetings
   Proposals were received from Granicus and Swagit. Alderman Karn showed a
live broadcast of a City Council meeting in Greenville, NC. Aldermen Poole,
Karn, Mayor Howard, Clerk and City Manager attended a Granicus presentation.
All agreed that live broadcast would give the Board more transparency. Mayor
Howard asked that this be considered during the FY 13-14 budget process.
11.   Other Business
·   Sale of surplus property, Board asked that this process be implemented as
soon as possible.
·   Administrative car should be returned to City Hall and truck provided for
the Public Services Director.
·   Review of City’s rate structure needs to be implemented
·   Explore possibility of selling the City’s grid for assumption of debt. City
Manager will contact Brunswick Electric.
·   City Manager will have staff to assess potholes near Cape Fear Drive and
River Drive intersection. Alderman Coring asked that the street cut near East
West and Dry Street be filled in.
·   Mayor Howard asked that the situation with Ms. Vernell Simon on East 11th
be reviewed.
Alderman Powell explained that Ms. Simon purchased her house in 1995 and has
paid basic sewer and water rates since this time. She had a backup problem in
2012 and it was discovered that she was not connected to the City sewer. She
has paid the City over $15,000 and asked the City for some relief. This matter
was turned over to the former City Manager and he told her that the City could
not do anything to assist her due to City policies. She paid the basic rates,
but it appears with the sewer calculations, the City could work out something
to refund her some of her money for water not used. Mr. Gandy stated that he
would look into this situation. Alderman Barnes noted that there might be other
potential customers with the same situation. Mayor Howard reiterated that this
should be revisited.
 ·   Community Policing, Mayor asked that the City move back towards community
policing. Mr. Gandy stated that he spoke briefly with Chief Dove concerning
this and more visibility in the downtown area i.e. bike patrol.
·   Alderman Powell suggested the Public Works crew keep a notepad in their
trucks to write down jobs or repairs that needs to be done in the community.
·   Alderman Coring asked that part-time workers be brought back during the
summer months. The contract with Green Man ends in May, and it was Board
consensus not to renew the contract and use part time labor.
·   The Board asked about the City’s mosquito spraying program i.e. truck and
certified employee. City Manager will look into and give the Board an update.
·   Alderman Powell referenced the need for public restrooms. The Building
Improvements Committee and City Manager will talk with John Thompson,
Architect. He also expressed his support for bringing back part-time employees,
and moving ahead with the 1029 building. He referenced the exterior area of the
Community Building, which needs to be addressed.
·   Alderman Powell suggested the Board budget monies to begin a program to
preserve the City official records.
·   Mayor Howard thanked Senator Rabon for his assistance in getting the
emergency light on Howe Street in front of the Fire Department, and
Representative McIntyre for assistance in the $70,000 grant for the fire
department turnout gear.
·   Mayor Howard reported that negotiations continue on the second road out of
Southport and Yacht Basin property.
·   City Manager Gandy asked the Board to review resolutions concerning
fracking, and support of the PARTFF program for Parks and Recreation. These
will be placed on the April 11 agenda for consideration.
·   City Manager Gandy advised of complaints concerning the condition of the
roundabout on Moore Street. He will meet with the Bald Head Planner to seek
information on what the City can do to help improve the appearance. At this
time, they will determine responsibility for maintenance. Alderman Barnes noted
that the Beautification Committee will help with maintenance, and Harbor Oak
residents are interested.
   The Board in conclusion expressed appreciation to Rob Gandy, former City
Manager for accepting the interim position.
12.   Adjournment - 2:10 p.m.
      The meeting adjourned upon motion of Alderman Coring, seconded by
Alderman Powell. Vote carried.
                     _________________________________
                  Mayor
________________________________
City Clerk
APRIL 11, 2013
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN             REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
APRIL 11, 2013                6:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS (CITY HALL) SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Todd Coring, Ken Karn, Mary Ellen Poole, Buddy Barnes,
         Nelson Adams, Jim Powell
ABSENT:      Alderman Karn
STAFF PRESENT:   Rob Gandy, Interim City Manager
         Regina W. Alexander, MMC, NCCMC
         Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
         Bonnie Bray, Finance Director
I.   Call to Order - 6:00 p.m.
   Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
2.   Invocation
   Mayor Howard welcomed everyone and pronounced the invocation
3.   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Coring led the Board in the Pledge of Allegiance.
   ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Howard stated, “If any member of the Board knows of
any conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with
respect to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
4.   Consent Agenda
   a) Approval of Minutes: March 14 regular minutes, March 8 and March 18
Special Minutes i.e. closed sessions
   d) Resolution Spring Clean Up 2013
   e) Resolution Approving Signatures – Security Savings Bank
   f) Committee Reports
   g) Resolution Recognizing May 11-17, 2013 as Water Safe Kids and Drowning
Prevention Week
   Mayor Howard asked that items b) Budget Amendment – Powell Bill
Appropriation
and c) Welcome to Southport Sign Sketch, Lions Club be pulled from the consent
agenda and placed on the regular meeting agenda under “Other Business.”
    Alderman Coring moved to approve the consent agenda, seconded by Alderman
Poole, vote carried. Motion passed.
5.   Approval of Agenda
   Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Powell to approve the agenda as
amended. Vote unanimous. Motion passed.
6.   Public Comments
   Mr. Skeeter Trott, 310 Park Avenue Extension voiced opposition to hanging
additional signs on the “Welcome to Southport” sign near Wal-Mart.
7.   Presentation- Communities in School
   a) Ms. Cynthia Tart, Executive Director of Communities in Schools gave an
update on programs, which are through community partnerships and asked if the
City would consider funding for support of services and programs in FY 13-14
budget.
   In other business, Ms. Tart stated her support of the Board adopting a
resolution in support of the resolution to support and maintain the funding for
the Parks and Recreation Trust Fund. (PARTFF)
8.   Public Hearing – UDO Text Amendment, Accessory Structures
   Alderman Barnes moved to enter Public Hearing to receive comments on the
Unified Development Ordinance Text Amendment for accessory structures, seconded
by Alderman Coring. Vote unanimous. Motion passed
   There were no public comments. The Hearing closed upon motion of Alderman
Powell, seconded by Alderman Barnes. Vote unanimous. Motion passed
9.   New Business
   Consideration of Resolution for Text Amendment
   City Attorney Isenberg stated as long as structures are no closer than 75
feet near the right of way and the architecture is compatible with the primary
structure, the amendment will allow structures to be built in R-10 zoned areas
on certain waterfront/riverfront lots.
   Alderman Barnes stated his support and acknowledged that it is a good
amendment. He motioned to adopt the resolution approving the text amendment to
the Unified Development Ordinance amending Section 11-1(G), seconded by
Alderman Poole. Vote unanimous. Motion passed
RESOLUTION APPROVING TEXT AMENDMENT TO UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
   THAT WHEREAS, the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance and other
land use ordinances that control land development within both the City’s
incorporated areas and within its extraterritorial area; and
   WHEREAS, in order to promote the public health, safety and general welfare
and to promote the best interest of the city and community, it is necessary for
the City Board of Aldermen from time to time to consider appropriate revisions,
modifications and additions to the city’s land use ordinances; and
   WHEREAS, Mr. Richard Bandera has prepared and submitted to the Planning
Board proposed amendments to Article 11, Section 11-1(G) of the Southport
Unified Development Ordinance, dealing with the location of accessory
structures; and
   WHEREAS, the Planning Board has considered this matter and has recommended
that the proposed amendments to the Unified Development Ordinance, as amended
by the Planning Board as hereinafter set forth, is consistent with the City
Comprehensive Plan and CAMA Core Land Use Plan and should be approved; and
   WHEREAS, pursuant to N. C. General Statutes and city ordinances, a public
hearing, properly noticed, was held on April 11, 2013, before the Board of
Aldermen regarding this issue; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen hereby finds that these proposed amendments
to Section 11-1 of the Unified Development Ordinance are consistent with the
Southport Comprehensive Land Use Plan and CAMA Core Land Use Plan; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that these amendments are
reasonable and in the public interest in that (i) due to the location of houses
on riverfront lots in the R-10 district, property owners would be unable to
have accessory garages without this amendment, and (ii) the amendment is
necessary and reasonable to support increased accessibility and enjoyment of
Southport’s waterfront while providing reasonable regulation of the location of
these accessory structures for neighboring properties.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that the
attached amendments and additions to Section 1-1 (G) of the Southport Unified
Development Ordinance are hereby approved and adopted.
      This 11th day of April 2013.
                      City of Southport
                     By: /s/ Robert D. Howard
                        Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk
   b) Second Reading – Columbiad Cannon, Fort Johnston
   Mayor Howard opened the floor for comments on the proposed placement of a
10” Columbiad Cannon on Fort Johnston. Ms. Joni Schinskie and Martha Johnson
provided additional information to the Board via power point presentation i.e.
the way the cannon would be mounted. City Manager Gandy and the Board
acknowledged a letter from Kevin Cherry, PH.D., State Historic Preservation
Officer from the N.C. State Department of Cultural Resources commenting on the
proposal to place civil war cannon on Fort Johnston. He recommended the City
adopt a master plan for the property, especially the lawn in front of the
Garrison House and suggested a decision be delayed on the placement of
monuments and memorials on the historic grounds at this time. Alderman Barnes
asked about the impact of the mounting on a brick foundation. Ms. Schinksie
relayed that this had been considered and there would be little impact.
Alderman Adams asked about liability. Ms. Schinskie acknowledged that the Foot
Soldiers would be responsible for liability insurance and upkeep. Alderman
Coring stated his support
because of the historical significance and its relationship to Fort Johnston.
Alderman Poole asked that a master plan be developed because the City has
received other proposals. It was Board consensus that the City Manager work
with the Fort Johnston Committee to develop a master plan.
   Alderman Barnes moved to accept the cannon proposal as the second reading in
accordance with City policy, and the third reading will be held at a date to be
determined by the Board. Alderman Coring seconded. Discussion: Alderman Adams
stated because the Board accepts the proposal as a second reading, this does
not mean that it will be approved at the third reading. Vote unanimous. Motion
passed
   Note: First reading held February 14. City policy regarding installations on
Fort Johnston property, states that there will be a first reading on any
proposed installation. The proposed use is to be provided, described, and/or
illustrated in detail and in written form at a regular meeting. The
presentation and description shall constitute the first reading of the proposed
use. If the Board agrees by majority vote, upon first reading, that it desires
to consider the proposed use, then the proposed use shall be sent to any
appropriate agencies – including the State Historic Preservation Office for
review and comment. After comments, second reading for public comments, and
third reading for Board approval. (Comments from agencies were included in the
Board’s packet)
   c) Consideration of approval to amend Audit Contract
   Alderman Powell moved to amend the audit contract through May 31, 2013,
seconded by Alderman Poole. Vote unanimous. Motion passed
   d) First Reading of Conceptual Plan for Expansion of Maritime Museum
   Mr. Walt Madsen, member of the Friends presented the Maritime Museum
expansion plan as first reading to expand the facility by 2,079 square feet to
include workshop, office and classrooms, if the Board approves the requested
space. Mr. Madsen stated that it would cost approximately $200,000 for the
expansion project with the Friends raising the funds. He and Mr. Strickland
showed a schematic of the proposed roofline. Alderman Barnes asked if they are
also planning a Phase III and IV. Mr. Strickland noted that Phase II was
included in the initial plan and they have no other plans for expansion.
Alderman Powell stated that the City would not have funds to contribute to the
project.
   Alderman Barnes moved to approve the first reading of the conceptual plan to
expand the Maritime Museum and that the appropriate agencies i.e. State
Historic Preservation Office be contacted for review and comments in accordance
with City policy, seconded by Alderman Poole. The vote of approval was
unanimous. (See policy below) Motion passed
   Note: City policy regarding installations on Fort Johnston property, states
that there will be a first reading on any proposed installation. The proposed
use is to be provided, described, and/or illustrated in detail and in written
form at a regular meeting. The presentation and description shall constitute
the first reading of the proposed use. If the Board agrees by majority vote,
upon first reading, that it desires to consider the proposed use, then the
proposed use shall be sent to any appropriate agencies – including the State
Historic Preservation Office for review and comment. After comments, second
reading for public comments, and third reading for Board approval.
   e) Consideration of Letter Opposing Fire Tax
   Mayor Howard stated that the Board discussed the proposed fire tax during
its annual retreat April 6. The proposal by the County to change its current
method of fire fees to a fire tax could have a major impact on taxpayers and
some fire departments.
   Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Powell to approve the letter and
send to the County Commissioners opposing the proposed fire tax and requested
that the current method to collect fire fees be retained. Vote unanimous.
Motion passed
   f) Consideration of Resolution in Support of the Parks and Recreation Trust
Fund (PARTFF)
   Alderman Powell moved to approve the resolution to send to congressional
representatives in support of the Parks and Recreation Trust fund, seconded by
Alderman Coring. The vote was unanimous.
A RESOLUTION TO MAINTAIN AND SUPPORT THE CURRENT INTEGRITY AND FUNDING FOR THE
PARKS AND RECREATION TRUST FUND (PARTF)
WHEREAS, North Carolina is known for its unique and scenic natural resources
and opportunities for recreation with a long tradition of its citizens and
visitors enjoying parks, mountains, rivers, greenways, beaches and more.
Generations of residents and visitors have delighted in these landscapes and
park facilities; and
WHEREAS, The Parks and Recreation Trust Fund (PARTF) was established with bi-
partisan support on July 16, 1994 to fund improvements in the state's park
system, to fund grants for local governments and to increase the public's
access to the state's beaches and coastal waterways; and
WHEREAS, since its inception The Parks and Recreation Trust Fund has provided
$161 million via 722 grants to 370 local governments in 99 counties and has
been matched with $312 million of local and private dollars for the purchase of
local park land, building and renovation of facilities and development of
greenways and trails; and
WHEREAS, North Carolina’s population has grown to make it the 10th most
populous state in the nation with projections for the significant growth to
continue in the coming decades, and more state and local parks are needed to
meet the increased demands; and
WHEREAS, parks are identified as key contributors to North Carolina’s tourism
industry that generates nearly $20 billion in annual economic impact; and
WHEREAS, parks in North Carolina are experiencing record visitation levels
including over 14.25 million to state parks in both 2011 and 2012; and
WHEREAS, The Parks & Recreation Trust Fund has leveraged funds that allowed our
State to acquire land for state parks and state natural areas and protected
nearly 83,000 acres and made major additions to the Mountains-to-Sea State
Trail; and
WHEREAS, The Parks & Recreation Trust Fund has funded capital improvement
projects in the state parks such as visitor centers and exhibit halls which
provide tremendous opportunities to educate students and all citizens about
North Carolina’s outstanding natural resources, and other capital projects
including campgrounds, picnic areas, boating facilities, trails and swimming
beaches; and local capital projects including construction of community
centers, athletic fields and greenways; and
WHEREAS, the annual economic impact to local economies of all tourists visiting
the state parks system was estimated at more than $400 million in sales and
income, as well as nearly 5,000 jobs according to a 2008 study.
WHEREAS, a portion of The Parks & Recreation Trust Fund is designated for the
Public Beach and Coastal Waterfront Access Program to improve access to beaches
and coastal waterways by funding public boat ramps and public beaches accesses;
and
WHEREAS, access to parks, recreation facilities and open space provides cost-
effective opportunities for citizens of all ages to participate in health and
wellness activities thereby reducing costs associated with obesity, heart
disease, diabetes and high blood pressure; and
WHEREAS, research has documented that structured park and recreational
opportunities in local communities can prevent crime and provide positive
activities and directions for young people; and
WHEREAS, dedicated, recurring funding of the Parks & Recreation Trust Fund
allows for structured and objective planning and efficient management of the
system at both the state and local levels for today and future generations; and
WHEREAS, the success of The Parks and Recreation Trust Fund is due to the
dedicated funding source provided by a portion of the deed stamp tax, and is
recognized nationally as a model for efficiency and accountability; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the City of Southport does call on the
members of the General Assembly to maintain dedicated revenues generated by
seventy-five cents of the deed stamp tax for The Parks and Recreation Trust
Fund.
This the 14 day of April 2013 by the Southport Board of Aldermen.
                        s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:
s/Regina W. Alexander, Clerk
   g) Consideration of Resolution Opposing Senate Bill 76 “The Domestic Energy
Jobs Act”
   The Board declined to entertain the above resolution due to insufficient
information.
10.   Other Business
   a) Powell Bill – Budget Amendment
   Motion by Alderman Powell, seconded by Alderman Poole, to approve the Powell
Bill budget amendment #14 after explanation by Bonnie Bray, Finance Director
explaining that the original calculations were short by $10,000 due to
incorrect financials. Vote unanimous. Motion passed
Budget Amendment #14
Fiscal Year 2012-2013
WHEREAS the City of Southport desires to perform its approved 2013 street
resurfacing program; and
WHEREAS there are sufficient funds in the Powell Bill fund balance restricted
for street repairs and maintenance to proceed with the work without financing;
and
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2012-2013 needs to be amended to
reflect the revenues and appropriations necessary to carry out this use of
Powell Bill funds;
   BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2012-2013 shall be
amended as follows:
POWELL BILL FUND Previous Amount      Increase               Amended Amount
Revenues
Fund Balance Appropriated      $ 153,800      $ 60,000      $ 213,800
Appropriations
Repair & Maintenance – System      $ 100,000      $ 60,000      $ 160,000
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, April 11, 2013.
s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
S/Regina Alexander, City Clerk
   b) Welcome to Southport Sign – Lions Club
   A request was received from Rhodes Messick, member of the Lions Club, asking
the City to fund $285 to purchase the addendum to the welcome sign near Wal-
mart which would read “Welcome to our Safe Haven.” Alderman Powell explained
that the Board discussed during their annual retreat not to expend any more
funds until the fiscal condition of the City is known.  The request was tabled.
   Alderman Coring questioned the whereabouts of the original sign that was
placed on City property near Fodale Avenue and Howe Street that is now the
hospital parking lot. City Manager Gandy stated that he would look into this.
   Fire Tax/Fire Fee- Alderman Adams questioned why the Board was sending a
letter rather than a resolution to the County. He asked the Board to send the
one that will carry the most influence.
11.   Other Comments
   a) Eagle Scout – Mayor Howard recommended Steven Thomas be given permission
to locate and identify veterans graves in Northwood Cemetery for an Eagle Scout
project. After the graves are identified; the names will be placed on a sign
with grave location.
   Alderman Coring moved, seconded by Alderman Barnes to authorize Steven
Thomas to locate and identify veteran graves in Northwood Cemetery for his
Eagle Scout project. Vote unanimous. Motion passed
   b) Proclamation – Mothers’ On a Mission:  Mayor Howard told the Board that
he received a request from Mother’s on a Mission Domestic Violence Organization
asking for a proclamation. Due to the rise in teen dating violence and domestic
violence in North Carolina, they propose to educate communities. Their goal is
to get 100 Mayors to sign a proclamation declaring Saturday, June 15, 2012 as
“North Carolina Domestic Violence Proclamation 100 Day.” He asked the Board to
review the information and let the Clerk know if there are any objections. If
not, he will issue the proclamation.
12.   Board Comments
   Mayor Howard and Board members officially welcomed Rob Gandy, Interim City
Manager.
   Mayor Howard asked the City Manager to insure when Brunswick Electric
contractors trim trees in the City, insure that City staff monitors the work
because several complaints have been received.
   Alderman Coring thanked Downtown Southport and the Kiwanians for a
successful Spring Festival. He will meet with the Committee at their request to
discuss some issues because of the festival’s growth.
   Police Officer Kyle Pszczultkoski received the 2013 Officer of the Year from
the Rotary Club.
13.   City Manager Comments
·   Budget schedule including completion of Audit given to Board members.
·   Paving contract signed and sent to vendor, project will begin no later than
April 22
·   Met with staff on wayfaring signs.
·   Met with property owners regarding Bay Street Revetment Project
·   Safe Route to Schools request for proposals submitted
·   Old Visitor’s Center maintenance work is in progress
·   Indian Trail Tree fertilization project completed.
13.   Adjournment 7:38 p.m.
   No further business, Alderman Poole moved for adjournment, seconded by
Alderman Powell. Vote unanimous. Motion passed
                     _________________________________
                        Mayor
________________________________
Clerk
APRIL 17, 2013
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN             SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
APRIL 17, 2013                4:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS (CITY HALL) SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Ken Karn, Mary Ellen Poole, Buddy Barnes,
         Nelson Adams, Jim Powell
ABSENT:      Aldermen Todd Coring,
STAFF PRESENT:   Rob Gandy, Interim City Manager
         Regina W. Alexander, MMC, NCCMC
         Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
1. Call to order – 4:00 p.m.
   Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 4:00 p.m. He announced that the
meeting was duly posted pursuant to North Carolina General Statute 160A-71(b)
and in accordance with Board of Aldermen Rules of Procedures. The special
meeting is being held for the purpose of discussing the possibility of selling
fill dirt from the 435-acre tract owned by the City near Sunny Point.
   Mayor Howard stated that he received a call from Mr. Balfour Beatty,
contractor for the Long Beach Road extension project for the North Carolina
Department of Transportation. He inquired about purchasing fill dirt from City
owned property. Mayor Howard stated he contacted Alderman Powell who met with
company representatives along with Mr. Gandy, City Manager.
   Alderman Powell reported that they met with the company representatives and
they need approximately 419,000 cubic yards of material. The City previously
sold fill dirt from the property that was used in the construction of the
second Oak Island Bridge and he noted that it is excellent material. If sold,
the City could realize a substantial amount of revenue generated from the sale.
   The Board acknowledged that the land cannot be developed commercially
because it is inside of the blast zone of Sunny Point but can recoup monies
from selling some of the material.
   Attorney Isenberg stated the City has three ways in which it can sell the
fill dirt; public auction, sealed bids or negotiated offer with advertising and
upset bid.
   Alderman Adams stated his support of moving forward with negotiations
because this is an opportunity for the City to recover monies from the land.
   Alderman Barnes moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to authorize Alderman
Powell and City Manager Gandy to negotiate the sale of the fill dirt for a
minimum of $2.50 per cubic yard. Vote unanimous. Motion passed
    City Manager Gandy reminded the Board that the Water and Sewer Fund monies
paid for the Sunny Point property and any proceeds from the sale should be
placed back into that fund.
Adjournment – 4:20 p.m.
   No further business, meeting closed upon motion of Alderman Powell, seconded
by Alderman Poole.  Vote unanimous.  Motion passed
                      ___________________________________
                     Mayor
__________________________________
Clerk
MAY 9, 2013
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN             REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
MAY 9, 2013                   6:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS (CITY HALL) SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Todd Coring, Ken Karn, Mary Ellen Poole, Buddy Barnes,
         Jim Powell
STAFF PRESENT:   Regina W. Alexander, MMC, NCCMC
         Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
         Bonnie Bray, Finance Director
         Robert Tucker
ABSENT:      Rob Gandy, Interim City Manager
         Alderman Nelson Adams
                  
            
1.   Call to Order - 6:00 p.m.
   Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
2.   Invocation
   Alderman Coring welcomed everyone and pronounced the invocation.
3.   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Coring led the Pledge of Allegiance.
   ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Howard asked, “If any member of the Board knows of
any conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with
respect to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
4.   Recognition
   Alderman Mary Ellen Poole read a proclamation in recognition of Municipal
Clerks Week and moved that it be approved, seconded by Alderman Barnes. Vote
unanimous.
PROCLAMATION
MUNICIPAL CLERKS WEEK
MAY 5 - MAY 11, 2013
WHEREAS, the Office of the Municipal Clerk, a time honored and vital part of
local government exists throughout the world; and
WHEREAS, the Office of the Municipal Clerk is the oldest among public servants;
and
WHEREAS, the Office of the Municipal Clerk provides the professional link
between the citizens, the local governing bodies and agencies of government at
other levels; and
WHEREAS, the Municipal Clerk serves as the information center on functions of
local government and community; and
WHEREAS, Municipal Clerks continually strive to improve the administration of
the affairs of the Office of the Municipal Clerk through participation in
education programs, seminars, workshops and the annual meetings of their state,
province, county and international professional organizations; and
WHEREAS, it is most appropriate that we recognize the accomplishments of the
Office of the Municipal Clerk;
NOW, THEREFORE, I Robert D. Howard, Mayor of the City of Southport, do
recognize the week of May 5 through May 11, 2013 as “Municipal Clerks Week”,
and further extend appreciation to our Municipal Clerk Regina W. Alexander and
Deputy Municipal Clerk, Michele Windham and to all Municipal Clerks for the
vital services they perform and their exemplary dedication to the communities
they represent.
Dated this the 9 th day of May 2013.
Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:
s/ Regina W. Alexander
Clerk
5.   Consent Agenda
   Alderman Powell moved to approve the consent agenda with noted change to
April 11 minutes, seconded by Alderman Karn, vote unanimous. Motion passed
a)   Approval of Minutes: April 6 retreat minutes, April 11 regular minutes,
and April 17 special minutes.
Alderman Karn asked that the April 11 minutes be corrected to show that he was
absent.
b)   Budget Amendments -#15,#16,#17 (see below)
c)   Committee Reports
Budget Amendment #15
Fiscal Year 2012-2013
WHEREAS the City of Southport has been offered and desires to accept donation
assistance from the Southport Rescue Squad Auxiliary in order to mount
specialized computer equipment on the new ambulance; and
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2012-2013 needs to be amended to
reflect the revenues and appropriations necessary to allow the use of these
funds;
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2012-2013 shall be
amended as follows:
GENERAL FUND                          Previous Amount   Increase      Amended
Amount
Revenues
Miscellaneous Rescue Grants            $ -0-      $ 2,800      $ 2,800
Appropriations
Repair/Maintenance of Rescue Equipment         $ 3,732      $ 2,800      $
6,532
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, May 9, 2013
s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
s/Regina Alexander, City Clerk   
Budget Amendment #16
Fiscal Year 2012-2013
WHEREAS the City of Southport has been awarded and desires to accept grant
assistance from the Archer Daniels Midland Company through its ADM Cares
program to purchase wild land fire clothing and equipment for the fire
department’s new brush truck, including hoses, rakes, shovels, extinguishers
and saws to help prevent the spread of wood fires in the community; and
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2012-2013 needs to be amended to
reflect the revenues and appropriations necessary to allow the use of these
funds;
   BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2012-2013 shall be
amended as follows:
GENERAL FUND                       Previous Amount   Increase      Amended
Amount
Revenues
Miscellaneous Fire Grants             $ -0-         $ 10,000      $ 10,000
Appropriations
Fire Equipment            $ 25,000         $ 10,000      $ 35,000
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, May 9, 2013
s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
s/Regina Alexander, City Clerk   
Budget Amendment #17
Fiscal Year 2012-2013
WHEREAS the City of Southport desires to outfit the fire department’s new brush
truck with an aluminum flatbed compartment, a 300-gallon skid unit and
additional permanently installed equipment costing approximately $16,000; and
WHEREAS the squad vehicle transferred from the rescue department to the fire
department required approximately $14,000 in repairs and alterations; and
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2012-2013 needs to be amended to
reflect the revenues and appropriations necessary to allow the use of these
funds;
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2012-2013 shall be
amended as follows:
GENERAL FUND                                      Previous
Amount      Increase      Amended Amount
Revenues
Fund Balance Appropriated       $ 1,016,600                 $ 30,000    $
1,046,600
(Fire Department Reserve)
Appropriations
Capital Outlay - Vehicles          $ 50,000          $ 30,000    $ 80,000
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, May 9, 2013
s/Robert D. Howard, Mayor
s/Regina Alexander, City Clerk
6. Approval of Agenda
   Alderman Coring moved, seconded by Alderman Barnes to approve the agenda as
amended to include other business; 1) Vernell Simon’s sewer issue on 11th
Street, 2) Lyme Disease Proclamation, and 3) Welcome sign issue. Vote
unanimous.
7. Public Comments
   Mr. Rhodes Messick of Cottage Creek Road informed the Board that the Lions
Club agreed to cover the expense of $285 for the addendum sign “Welcome to Our
Safe Haven” proposed to be installed on the Welcome to Southport Sign, Highway
211 near Wal-mart.
   Ms. Melissa Hinnant, 303 East 8th Street stated that May is Mental Health
Awareness Month and wanted to bring it to the attention of citizens and the
community because mental health issues touch many people.
8. New Business
   Corp of Engineers Revetment Project Bay Street Pump Station - Agreement
   City Attorney Isenberg and staff recommended approval of the Agreement.
Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to approve the agreement and
authorize the Mayor to sign on behalf of the Board. Vote unanimous. Motion
passed. (Agreement will be incorporated as Attachment #1)
9. Finance Report - Bonnie Bray, Finance Director
   Ms. Bray reviewed the City financials through March 31, 2013 and stated
there is good cash balances in all funds. Receivables represent two years of
the City paying sales taxes, however, no report was filed requesting the sales
tax refund from the State, and this will be done within the next month. She
stated that financial reports would be presented each month.
10. Rivermist Section 6 Acceptance of Improvements for Maintenance
Mr. Robert Tucker, Director of Public Utilities informed the Board that the
developer completed improvements for block six of Rivermist Subdivision and
asked the City to accept the streets and wastewater collection system. The
estimated value of improvements for maintenance is $282,972.55. The developer
is required to provide a one-year warranty bond for 10% of the cost of
improvements. Staff recommended acceptance contingent upon receipt of the one-
year warranty bond.
Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to accept the streets and
wastewater collection system for block six of Rivermist Subdivision contingent
upon receipt of the one-year warranty bond. Vote unanimous. Motion passed
11. Resolution – N.C. Film Industry
Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Barnes to approve the following
resolution in support of the N.C. Film Industry. Vote unanimous. Motion passed.
Resolution to Support the North Carolina Film Industry
WHEREAS, the Film and Television Industry has been an important clean industry
in North Carolina for over 30 years, and
WHEREAS, North Carolina seeks and wishes to attract clean, knowledge-based
industries that position the state well for 21st century job expansion, and
WHEREAS, the Film and Television Industry has contributed to jobs and increased
economic activity in over 50 North Carolina counties, and
WHEREAS, over 4,000 families depend on this industry for well-paying jobs and
the industry workforce has multiplied in each of the last three years, and
WHEREAS, this industry will provide more highly skilled jobs and opportunities
in the future and contribute significantly to workforce earnings potential, and
WHEREAS, our skilled crew base, well-trained talent, excellent facilities and
diverse scenery make North Carolina an excellent place to film, and
WHEREAS, every level of public education trains technical employees for this
industry and post-secondary job placement in the industry is very strong, and
WHEREAS, film over the last five years has exceeded one billion dollars in
gross domestic product for the state, and
WHEREAS, the current North Carolina tax structure encourages productions from
around the world to economically produce movies and television series in our
state, and
WHEREAS, films and TV series produced in North Carolina attract destination
tourism to filming locations, contributing to the state’s travel economy, and
WHEREAS, this Board supports job growth of high skilled, high wage industries.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, the City of Southport Board of Aldermen does
hereby declare our support for both the North Carolina Film and Television
Industry and the current state tax policy that has caused this industry to
grow. We call upon our representatives in the North Carolina General Assembly
to continue support of this important industry.
Duly Resolved, this the 9th Day of May, 2013
s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
s/ Regina Alexander, City Clerk
12. Review of Resolution requesting the return of Brunswick County to the
Wilmington Metropolitan Statistical Area
      Mayor Howard stated that Brunswick County and several other
municipalities have adopted resolutions asking that Brunswick County be put
back in the Wilmington Metropolitan Statistical Area and recommended the City
join with them in adopting a resolution of support.
      Alderman Barnes moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to approve the
Resolution requesting the U. S. Office of Management and Budget to revise its
recent metropolitan area alignment by returning Brunswick County to the
Wilmington Metropolitan Statistical Area. The vote of approval was unanimous.
Motion passed (Copy Incorporated as Attachment #2)
13. Way finding signs for the City of Southport (Peggy Popelars)
   Mayor Howard and the Board thanked Mrs. Peggy Popelars, President of
Downtown Southport and the DSI Board for funding the wayfinding signs and other
contributions made to the City.
   Alderman Barnes moved, seconded by Alderman Coring to authorize Downtown
Southport Inc. to work with City staff to install the signs and the City fund
the cost of the electrical connections and electricity. Vote unanimous. Motion
passed
14. Discussion of Cemeteries
         Mayor Howard acknowledged a request to remove the posts in the
driveways at Northwood Cemetery because of damage to vehicles, and the City
continue to pave roads in the cemetery.
Alderman Coring moved, seconded by Alderman Powell to authorize staff to remove
the posts and proceed with paving. (It was noted that Powell Bill funds can not
be used for paving in the cemetery) Vote unanimous. Motion passed
15. Fort Johnston Committee Report – Alderman Ken Karn
                 Alderman Karn presented a report from the Fort Johnston
Committee defining criteria to use as a guide in development of a site-specific
master plan for Fort Johnston. Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Barnes
to direct City staff to submit request for proposals to develop a site-specific
master plan for Fort Johnston grounds. Discussion: In answer to a question
posed by Mayor Howard, Alderman Karn stated that funding would be considered in
the Parks and Recreation FY 13-14 budget. The Committee recommended that a
professional firm be hired to develop the plan. Vote unanimous. Motion passed
       Alderman Karn told the Board that the Foot Soldiers offered their
assistance, however; input will be received from the Parks & Recreation Board,
citizens and others.
      The Fort Johnston Committee also expressed concern about the historical
documents being stored at Etherington Preservation in Greensboro, N.C. The
Committee recommended forming a Committee to decide which documents should be
duplicated to place in the museum and perhaps give to State Archives for
further preservation, and to engage someone to decide which documents has
priority for restoration and duplication.
      Alderman Barnes acknowledged the importance of the documents and motioned
that the Board appropriate $150 for three months of storage, seconded by
Alderman Karn.  Discussion: City Clerk Alexander explained that the documents
are under the control of the City Clerk, staff has plans to bring the documents
back to the City, which will be placed in a controlled environment. Alderman
Poole explained that the documents were given to the City of Southport when
   Fort Johnston was acquired which i.e. old deeds, easements and other
historical documents. Motion withdrawn.  The Board acknowledged that the
documents are under control of the City Clerk and anyone interested should
contact the City Clerk’s office.
      Alderman Karn stated that the Agreement with the National Park Service
requires that monies from use of the garrison lawn, i.e. museum store, proceeds
are to be used for maintenance and improvements to Fort Johnston. However, due
to the accounting that is presently in place, there is no way to insure that
this is being done. He asked the Board to be mindful of this when the finance
director sets up an enterprise fund.
Other Business
16. Vernell Salmon – East 11th Street (Sewer)
   Mayor Howard stated that the Board previously addressed the issue where the
City had been charging the base and multiplier rate for use of sewer, but later
discovered that the resident had not been hooked up to sewer through no fault
of hers. The issue went to the Utility Committee and the Interim City Manager.
The Board previously authorized staff to negotiate a settlement regarding
charges without services while not infringing on the base rate of the sewer
system.
   Attorney Isenberg stated if a property owner is not connected to sewer, they
pay a base rate in accordance with City ordinance. Alderman Powell stated that
Ms. Simon paid the base rate plus the multiplier. Attorney Isenberg stated if
she paid over the base rate, then the City has the authority to refund the
difference.
   Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to allow staff to negotiate
a settlement with Mrs. Simon regarding charges without services and not
infringing on the base rate of the sewer fee. Discussion: Alderman Poole
questioned when it was determined that Mrs. Simon was not connected to City
sewer, did her rate change. Mr. Tucker stated the connection is available at
the property line but the plumber will need to make the connection. Mr. Tucker
in response to questions stated that they found no others in the same situation
as Mrs. Simon after performing a smog test. The vote of approval was unanimous.
Motion passed
17. Resolution – Lyme Disease
   Alderman Karn stated lyme disease is a real threat and the resolution is a
public health plea advising how to avoid contracting the disease. Alderman Karn
moved to approve the resolution proclaiming May as Lyme Disease month, seconded
by Alderman Powell, the vote was unanimous. Motion passed. (Resolution
Incorporated as Attachment #3)
18. Welcome Sign – “Welcome to Our Safe Haven” (Lions Club)
    Mayor Howard referenced the Lion’s Club request to add an addendum to the
City of Southport welcome sign near Wal-mart at their expense.
   Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Barnes to approve the request by
the Lions Club to approve the addendum to the welcome sign at their expense.
Discussion:  Alderman Coring asked about the status of the old welcome sign
that was once located at the corner of Fodale and Howe Streets. Mayor Howard
stated that Mr. Gandy located the sign at the City Garage, which needs some
work. Alderman Poole acknowledged appreciation to the Lions Club, while
communicating that she received calls and comments from citizens believing that
it would be inappropriate to place an addendum on the welcome sign, and noted
the Safe Haven movie was only one facet of the City. Alderman Karn stated
movies come and go, but made the motion to get it on the floor. He stated that
it is a nice sentiment, but he is reluctant to make changes to the sign. Vote
on the motion was 4 noes, Karn, Poole, Coring and Powell. 1 abstention, Barnes.
Motion failed.
19.   Paving
   Mayor Howard reported that paving will commence on Friday and it was
requested that South Howe Street be a priority. Mayor Howard in response to
question by Alderman Coring stated that it has been requested that the paving
commence in the evening.
20.   John N. Smith Cemetery – Aerial Lighting
   Mayor Howard stated that the City is installing an aerial light at the
entrance of John N. Smith Cemetery and an electrical connection, which this
will require boring under Leonard Street as, communicated to him by the City
Manager. There were no questions or comments from the Board.
21. Closed Session – G.S. 143-318.11 (6)
   7:23 p.m. Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Barnes to enter closed
session to discuss personnel and seek the Attorney’s advice regarding the fill
dirt contract. Vote unanimous.
(Clerk excused)
22. 7:37 p.m. Regular Session
   Mayor Howard stated the Board discussed
several legal issues with Attorney Isenberg regarding the potential contract
for selling fill dirt to Balfour Beatty. Direction was given to the negotiating
team comprised of Aldermen Powell, Adams and City Manager Gandy. If successful
in negotiating a contract, it will be presented to the Board for consideration
and advertised 10 days.
   Mayor Howard announced that the City is in its sixth week of the ninety-day
contract with Interim City Manager Gandy and the Board will advertise to fill
the position of City Manager. Alderman Powell moved to begin the advertising
process for a City Manager seconded by Alderman Karn. Vote unanimous. Mayor
Howard asked Alderman Poole to coordinate the effort with staff.
23. Board Comments
   Alderman Poole thanked the Clerk, Deputy Clerk and staff for their
contributions to the City. She announced rocking on the river concert Friday
Night. (Mike’s Garage Band)
24. Resolution- Rivermist Dog Fashion Show
   Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to adopt a resolution for
the Rivermist costume parade for dogs, May 11, 2013. Vote unanimous.
(Resolution Incorporated Attachment #4)
25. Adjournment
   No further business, meeting adjourned upon motion of Alderman Poole,
seconded by Alderman Powell. Vote Unanimous.
                     _____________________________
                     Mayor
________________________________
Clerk
JUNE 13, 2013
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN             REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
JUNE 13, 2013                 6:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS (CITY HALL) SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Todd Coring, Ken Karn, Mary Ellen Poole, Buddy Barnes,
         Jim Powell
STAFF PRESENT:   Rob Gandy, Interim City Manager
         Regina W. Alexander, MMC, NCCMC
         Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
         Bonnie Bray, Finance Director
         J.V. Dove, Chief of Police
         Robert Tucker, Public Services Director
ABSENT:      Alderman Nelson Adams
1.   Call to Order - 6:00 p.m.
   Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
2.   Invocation
   Alderman Powell welcomed everyone. Chief Dove pronounced the invocation.
3.   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Coring led the Pledge of Allegiance.
   ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Howard asked, “If any member of the Board knows of a
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please state at this time.”
4.   Recognition
   Mayor Howard acknowledged Steven Thomas, an Eagle Scout who is working on a
project to list all veterans in Northwood Cemetery.
5.   Consent Agenda
   Alderman Powell moved to approve the consent agenda with the addition of
budget amendment #20, seconded by Alderman Coring. Vote unanimous.
a) Approval of minutes: May 9, 2013 regular minutes (approved)
b) Budget Amendments #18, 19 & 20 (approved)
Budget Amendment #18
Fiscal Year 2012-2013
WHEREAS the City of Southport has been awarded and desires to accept additional
grant assistance from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) for
reimbursement of costs related to Hurricane Irene; and
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2012-2013 needs to be amended to
reflect the revenues and appropriations necessary to allow the use of these
funds;
   BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2012-2013 shall be
amended as follows:
GENERAL FUND                        Previous Amount      Increase   Amended
Amount
Revenues
FEMA Reimbursement            $ -0-         $ 16,900      $ 16,900
Appropriations
Management Contingency            $ -0-         $ 16,900      $ 16,900
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, June 13, 2013
            
s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
            
s/Regina Alexander, City Clerk
Budget Amendment #19
Fiscal Year 2012-2013
WHEREAS the City of Southport has received and desires to accept donations to
offset the cost of reusable holiday decorations originally installed in
December 2012; and
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2012-2013 needs to be amended to
reflect the revenues and appropriations necessary to allow the use of these
funds;
   BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2012-2013 shall be
amended as follows:
GENERAL FUND                        Previous Amount      Increase   Amended
Amount
Revenues
Beautification Revenue            $ -0-         $ 6,400      $ 6,400
Appropriations
Other Services - Administration         $ 11,700         $ 6,400      $ 18,100
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, June 13, 2013
            
s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
            
s/Regina Alexander, City Clerk   
Budget Amendment #20
Fiscal Year 2012-2013
WHEREAS the City of Southport has received and desires to accept a donation
from Downtown Southport, Inc. (DSI) to augment the summer camp program; and
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2012-2013 needs to be amended to
reflect the revenues and appropriations necessary to allow the use of these
funds;
   BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2012-2013 shall be
amended as follows:
GENERAL FUND                        Previous Amount      Increase   Amended
Amount
Revenues
Parks & Recreation Donations         $ 2,000       $ 2,000       $ 4,000
Appropriations
Departmental Supplies            $ 52,850      $ 2,000      $ 54,850
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, June 13, 2013
            
s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
            
s/Regina Alexander, City Clerk
c) The Board approved the permanent utility easement presented by the
Department of Transportation for the new emergency flashing lights located near
the Fire Station for fire vehicles exiting the station during calls. (Approved)
d) Committee Reports (none)
6. Approval of Agenda
   Mayor Howard asked that the paving of roads in Northwood Cemetery and
removal of poles be added to the agenda. Alderman Karn moved to approve the
agenda as amended, seconded by Alderman Barnes. Vote unanimous.
7. Public Comments
   Mr. Woody Wilson, 502 Brunswick Street asked about the City’s budget process
for FY 13-14 and suggested the Board postpone consideration of any monetary
actions for the Lord Street gym.
   Mr. Donnie Joyner, supporter of retaining the Brunswick Community College
gymnasium, which was the former Brunswick County Training School gym, spoke in
support of retaining the gym. He stated that the gym was structurally sound and
asked the City to support the community’s endeavor to lease the gym from the
college and assist in making it vital to the community once again. He stated
that community groups are ready to raise monies to help bring the gym back to
its original form and this project is worth the effort, which will instill
community pride by working together for a common cause.
8. NEW BUSINESS
9. Ms. Vernell Salmon, 236 E. 11th Street
   Mr. Bernest Hewett, speaking on behalf of his Godmother, Vernell Salmon
addressed the Board in reference to monies Ms. Salmon paid for City sewer since
1998. It was discovered recently by City staff that she was not connected to
City sewer after she had a problem with her system. Prior to this, she had not
been notified by the City that she was not connected to City sewer and he
questioned City policies.
   Attorney Isenberg stated because of the statute of limitation the City is
only obligated to refund two years.
   Mayor Howard expressed compassion for Ms. Salmon’s plight, and stated that
the City refunded everything that it could in accordance with state statutes
and noted the City’s legal obligation to abide to the dictates of state law.
10. Solid Waste Contract- Waste Industries
   Mr. Robert Tucker, Public Services Director presented the solid waste
contract for renewal, which will expire June 30, 2013. He explained that it is
a five-year contract renewable in three-year increments with no fee increase or
fuel surcharge. Staff recommended approval. Alderman Powell moved to approve
the contract and to authorize execution by Mayor Howard, seconded Alderman
Coring. Vote unanimous. Motion passed. (Contract Incorporated as Attachment #1)
11. Review of Resolution supporting the preservation of affordable financing
through tax-exempt financing
   In memo to the Board, it was explained that Congress and the President have
offered changes to the tax code that would limit or eliminate tax-exempt
financing. The American Public Power Association, ElectriCities and others are
opposed to this change, which would limit the ability to access affordable
financing and encouraged local governments to adopt resolutions opposing the
changes.
   Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Barnes to adopt the resolution
supporting the preservation of affordable financing through tax-exempt
financing. Vote unanimous. Motion passed.
A Resolution Supporting the Preservation of Affordable Financing through Tax-
Exempt Financing
WHEREAS, municipal bonds are the means by which state and local governments and
school districts finance critical infrastructure, including roads, bridges,
hospitals, schools and utility systems; and
WHEREAS, under current law, the owners of municipal bonds are not required to
pay federal income tax on the interest income they receive from the bonds; and
WHEREAS, the federal tax exemption provides a significant difference between
public sector and private sector debt financing; and
WHEREAS, municipalities benefit from this tax exemption through substantial
savings on the interest cost of borrowed money; and
WHEREAS, the benefit of lower capital costs attributable to tax-exempt
financing are passed on to citizens through reduced rates and greater local
investments; and
WHEREAS, periodically Congress and the President have proposed legislation to
tax or alter the federal tax exemption of interest on municipal bonds; now,
therefore, be it
RESOLVED, that the City of Southport opposes any and all efforts to eliminate
or limit the federal tax exemption on interest earned from municipal bonds.
DULY ADOPTED, this the 13th Day of June, 2013.
                                                                                                              
s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:
s/ Regina Alexander, City Clerk
12. Review of Resolution approving an exception to the contracting prohibitions
in NCGS 14-234
   (Alderman Barnes recused due to interest in the topic of discussion))
The Board acknowledged that Wildwood Landscaping, owned by Alderman Barnes had
a contract on maintenance of the grounds at 1029 North Howe Street prior to the
City assuming ownership. City Manager Gandy explained that G.S. 14-234
prohibits contracting with public officials in the same jurisdiction, but make
exceptions for officials in jurisdictions under 15,000 population. The statute
in subsection d1 allows contracting with public officials in communities fewer
than 15,000 with certain conditions.
·   The undertaking or contract must be approved by specific resolution of the
governing body adopted in open and public meeting with the amount not exceeding
$40,000 in a twelve-month period.
·   The official entering into contract cannot participate in the vote
·   The total amount of contract with each official must be noted in the
audited financial statement of the local government.
·   The governing board must post, in a conspicuous place in City Hall, a list
of officials with whom contracts have been made, describing the subject matter
of the undertaking or contracts showing the total amounts
   Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Powell to adopt the resolution
approving an exception to the contracting prohibitions in NCGS 14-234 to allow
Wildwood Landscaping, Ltd. to owe Street buildingStr
continue maintenance of the grounds at 1029 North Howe Street for FY 13-14 at a
cost of $375.00 per month. The votes of approval were 3 ayes, Alderman Karn,
Powell and Coring. 1 no, Alderman Poole. Vote passed 3-1  (Alderman Barnes re-
seated)
   A RESOLUTION APPROVING AN EXCEPTION TO THE CONTRACTING PROHIBITIONS IN NCGS
14-234
   WHEREAS General Statute GS 14-234 generally prohibits contracting with
public officials in the same jurisdiction, but makes some potential exceptions
for officials in jurisdictions under 15,000 population; and
   WHEREAS the City of Southport is under 15,000 in population; and
   WHEREAS Alderman Floyd (Buddy) Barnes, the owner of Wildwood Landscape
Contracting, Ltd., has offered to perform certain landscaping maintenance
services at a recently-purchased municipal property located at 1029 North Howe
Street at a cost of $375.00 per month or $4500.00 per year; and
   WHEREAS the Board of Aldermen desires to contract with Alderman Floyd
(Buddy) Barnes and Wildwood Landscape Contracting to provide said landscaping
services for Fiscal Year FY 13-14
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport:
Section 1. The Board of Aldermen hereby approves contracting with Floyd (Buddy)
Barnes, an alderman of the City of Southport, and his company Wildwood
Landscape Contracting, Ltd., for landscaping maintenance at 1029 North Howe
Street for Fiscal Year 13-14 at a cost of $375.00 per month or $4500.00 per
fiscal year.
Section 2. The record of this contract approval shall be entered in the minutes
of the June 13, 2013 Board of Aldermen meeting, shall be noted in the annual
audit of financial statements for the fiscal year 2013-2014, and shall be
conspicuously posted by the city clerk at the City Hall, all in the manner
required by General Statute 14-234(d1).
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, June 13, 2013.
            
   s/Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:
            
s/ Regina Alexander, City Clerk
13. Update on Audit FY 11-12 and FY 13-14 budget preparation situation
   Ms. Bray, Finance Director, presented a preliminary report from the Auditors
and stated that the management letter would be presented later. Ms. Bray
reported that the preliminary data show that the numbers are very good and
there is $1.6 million in the general fund balance. She reported that staff has
sufficient financial data to begin work on FY 13-14 budget, however in
communication with the North Carolina Local Government Commission, it has been
recommended that an interim budget be adopted which will shift FY 13-14 budget
by one month to August.
   Mayor Howard and the Board expressed appreciation to staff for their
diligence in getting the City financials in order. He stated that the Board has
been transparent with the City finances
and staff worked to meet self-imposed deadlines. He announced that a special
meeting would be called to receive the audit and to adopt an interim budget
before June 30.
   Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Barnes to authorize the City
Manager to close out the capital projects. The vote of approval was unanimous.
Motion passed.
14. Brunswick Community College Gym - Lord Street
   Mayor Howard noted that Alderman Adams had been called to work but asked
that this matter be placed on the agenda.  Mayor Howard communicated that Mr.
Jerry Thrift from Brunswick Community College contacted the City to gauge its
interest in leasing the gym on Lord Street. Mayor Howard stated that the City
cannot totally fund the project and suggested a public private partnership be
formed, and appoint a task force to study the issue. Alderman Barnes stated his
support of retaining the facility with community involvement, and to seek
grants to assist with renovations.
   Alderman Barnes motioned, seconded by Alderman Poole to authorize Mayor
Howard to appoint a Task Force to study the feasibility of a public-private
partnership to determine use of the existing gym and report its findings back
to the Board.  Discussion:  Alderman Karn stated he would not want to see the
City lease the facility and make upgrades when it belongs to the college. He
would rather the City own the gym, but deemed it a worthwhile project because
of the historical significance to the community. He stated grant funds might be
available to assist with renovations. Alderman Coring stated the City currently
has a gym that need upgrades and prefer to see the City focus on that gym and
cautioned the Board about taking on another project. The vote on the motion was
unanimous. Motion passed to establish Task Force.
   Mayor Howard appointed Alderman Adams, Richard Bandera and Donnie Joyner to
the Lord Street Gym Task Force and others may be appointed later.
15. Executive Session- property acquisition (GS-143-318.11 (5)
   The Board entered closed session to discuss the proposed terms for property
acquisition of the Chirico property located at the Yacht Basin owned by First
Bank upon motion of Alderman Poole, seconded by Alderman Barnes. Vote
unanimous.
   Alderman Coring motioned to re-enter open session, seconded by Alderman
Barnes, vote carried. (Closed session minutes will remained sealed for a period
of time)
   Mayor announced in closed session that the Board was given information
concerning contract negotiations for the Yacht Basin property owned by First
Bank and discussed procuring an easement for Hankinsville Alley.
16.   Other Business
   a) The Board discussed purchase of the necessary equipment and appropriation
of funds in FY 13-14 budget to allow the City Clerk to restore and digitize
City records, and provide the necessary office space. City Manager Gandy was
requested to provide the adequate office space in the space analysis plan.
Alderman Barnes suggested additional help to assist the Clerk.
   b) Northwood Cemetery Paving and removal of poles
   The Board approved the paving of two additional roads in Northwood Cemetery
at a cost of $7,000 and the posts be cut down to monument level while still
identifying the graves. Alderman Powell moved to approve the contract and
budget amendment, seconded by Alderman Karn. Vote unanimous. Motion passed.
    Mayor Howard stated that he would continue to work towards an endowment or
perpetual fund to assist with maintenance of the cemeteries.
   c) John N. Smith Cemetery - Mayor Howard reported that Brunswick Electric
Membership Corporation had installed the light at the John N. Smith Cemetery.
   d) Wooden Boat Show - Mayor Howard announced with consensus from the Board
that the City would provide the same services for the Wooden Boat Show
scheduled 2013 as it did in 2012.
   The Board expressed the need to bring part-time employees back to assist
with mowing rights of ways, cemeteries and other work needed around the City.
17. Other Comments
   Alderman Barnes commented on the recently acquired brush truck (Fire
Department). He also noted that the City has received additional donations to
be applied towards the purchase of the Christmas tree acquired last year, which
is almost paid for with donations.
   Alderman Poole stated she attended a recognition service for Ms. Carolyn
Pryor who was the State winner for the Senior Service Award. $500 was received
and it is earmarked for the Community Garden to be located behind Brunswick
Community College on Lord Street.
   Mayor Howard and the Board congratulated Alderman Coring on his promotion to
Lieutenant in charge of the Uniform Patrol, Sheriff Department.
   The Board encouraged support for the North Carolina Fourth of July Festival.
18. Adjournment
   The meeting adjourned upon motion of Alderman Powell, seconded by Alderman
Coring, the vote was unanimous.
                        ____________________________
                        Mayor
_____________________________________
City Clerk
JUNE 21, 2013
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN             SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
JUNE 21, 2013                 4:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS (CITY HALL) SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:   Mayor Robert D. Howard
      Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Buddy Barnes and Jim Powell
STAFF PRESENT:   Michele Windham, Deputy City Clerk
Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
Robert Tucker, Public Services Director
ABSENT:   Aldermen Nelson Adams, Todd Coring, Ken Karn      
         City Clerk, Regina Alexander
1.   Call to order - 4:00 p.m.
Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 4:00 p.m.
Mayor Howard stated the absence of Aldermen Adams and Coring was because of
their attendance at the funeral of former Police Chief George Mc Cracken, and
Alderman Karn is out of state.
2.    Closed Session G.S. 143-318.11 (4)
    4:05 p.m. Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to enter closed
session to discuss matters relating to the location or expansion of industries
or other businesses in the area; including a discussion of economic development
incentives, get legal counsel from the City Attorney in relation to this, and
to discuss the possible acquisition of an easement for Hankinsville Road and
the terms of this possible acquisition. Vote Unanimous.
Mr. Tucker joined the Aldermen in Closed Session. (Clerk excused)
Executive session minutes will remain sealed until the purpose no longer
frustrates the reason for the closed meeting.
3.   4:32 p.m. Regular Session
The Board re-entered regular session upon motion of Alderman Barnes, seconded
by Alderman Powell. Vote Unanimous.
Mayor Howard stated the Board discussed accepting a gift of four lots at the
11th Street entrance of Hankinsville Road from Mr. Terry Lee. Mayor Howard
noted the road is currently blocked off making it inaccessible to residents and
emergency vehicles.
Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Barnes to accept the gift of four
lots from Mr. Terry Lee and direct the City Attorney to prepare the appropriate
paperwork for acquisition.
Discussion:
Mayor Howard credited Alderman Adams for being an integral part of the multi-
year negotiations with Mr. Lee.
      Vote Unanimous.
Mayor Howard stated the Board also discussed parameters and gave tentative
indications of what the City would be willing to do as incentives for a
potential industry that may consider locating in the area. He announced that
the Board would hold a public hearing on the matter prior to a vote.
4:36 p.m. Adjournment
No further business, meeting adjourned upon motion of Alderman Powell, seconded
by Alderman Poole. Vote Unanimous.
_________________________________
Mayor
_________________________________
Clerk
JUNE 27, 2013
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN             SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
JUNE 27, 2013                 4:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS (CITY HALL) SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:   Mayor Robert D. Howard
      Mary Ellen Poole, Buddy Barnes, Jim Powell, Nelson Adams
ABSENT:   Alderman Karn and Coring
      Rob Gandy, Interim City Manager
I.   Call to Order – 4:00 p.m.
   Mayor Howard called the meeting to order.
2)   Interim Budget Ordinance
Ms. Bray, Finance Director presented for Board consideration and adoption an
interim budget for FY 13-14 with operating expenses through the end of July
2013, which was also recommended by the Local Government Commission. She
explained that the budget represent one-twelfth of the annual appropriation for
departments. (See budget below)
   Alderman Powell moved to adopt the Interim Budget Ordinance, seconded by
Alderman Poole. The vote of approval were 4 ayes, Aldermen Poole, Powell,
Barnes and Adams.  Motion passed
Interim Budget Ordinance
   BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that pursuant to North Carolina General Statute 159-16:
Section 1:   The following amounts are hereby appropriated in the General Fund
for the operation of the city government and its activities for the month of
July 2013 in accordance with the departmental structure and loan obligations
heretofore established for the City:
Governing Body                  $    12,000
Administration                      18,000
Finance                         25,000
Solid Waste                         13,000
Buildings & Grounds                      13,000
Garage                            15,000
Police                            85,000
Fire                           203,000
Planning & Code Enforcement                28,000
Rescue                            27,000
Streets                            23,000
Cemeteries                         14,000
Parks & Recreation                      43,000
Community Building                      8,000
Tourism                         11,000
Non-Departmental                     192,000
            Total Appropriations      $   730,000
Section 2:   The following amounts are hereby appropriated in the Powell Bill
Fund for the maintenance of city streets and sidewalks for the month of July
2013 in accordance with North Carolina Department of Transportation guidelines
established for the City:
Repair & Maintenance – System            $    5,000
            Total Appropriations      $    5,000
Section 3:   The following amounts are hereby appropriated in the 1029 N. Howe
Street Fund to provide facility maintenance service for the month of July 2013
in accordance with common-area obligations to tenants of properties leased by
the City:
Common-area maintenance               $    2,000
            Total Appropriations      $    2,000
Section 4:   The following amounts are hereby appropriated in the Electric Fund
to provide electric utility service for the month of July 2013 in accordance
with the departmental allocation heretofore established for the City:
Electricity administration               $    32,000
Electricity distribution                  593,000
            Total Appropriations      $   625,000
Section 5:   The following amounts are hereby appropriated in the Water and
Sewer Fund to provide water and sewer utility service for the month of July
2013 in accordance with the departmental allocation and contract obligations
heretofore established for the City:
Water and sewer administration            $    51,000
Water and sewer distribution                  204,000
USACE revetment project match               180,000
            Total Appropriations      $   435,000
Section 6:   The City Manager or designee is hereby authorized to transfer
appropriations as contained herein under the following conditions:
a.   Transfers between line item expenditures within a department without
limitation and without a report being required. These changes must not result
in increases in recurring obligations such as salaries.
b.   Transfers up to $1,500 between departments, including contingency
appropriations, within the same fund and must make an official report on such
transfers at the next regular meeting of the Board of Alderman.
Section 7:   The City Manager or designee may make cash advances between funds
for periods not to exceed 60 days with the approval of the Board of Alderman.
Section 8:   Copies of this Interim Budget Ordinance shall be furnished to the
City Clerk and the Budget Officer and the Finance Officer to be kept on file by
them for their direction in the disbursement of funds.
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in special session, June 27, 2013.
                     
                                                                  s/Robert D.
Howard, Mayor            
s/Regina Alexander, City Clerk   
3) Audit Contract Amended
 Alderman Poole moved to approve the amended Audit Contract, seconded by
Alderman Barnes. Votes were 4 ayes, Aldermen Poole, Powell, Barnes and Adams.
4) Budget Amendment # 22
Alderman Powell moved to approve budget amendment #22 per recommendation of Ms.
Bray. Motion seconded by Alderman Adams, vote of approval were 4 ayes, Aldermen
Poole, Powell, Barnes and Adams. Motion passed
Budget Amendment #22
Fiscal Year 2012-2013
WHEREAS the City of Southport desires to provide recycling service along with
other refuse collection services, which requires additional cost to the City;
and
WHEREAS anticipated refuse collection service revenues will increase, due to a
$1.45 per month increase in fees charged to customers; and
WHEREAS a contract for cemetery paving was unable to be scheduled before the
end of fiscal year 2012-2013, due to unpredictable burials; and
WHEREAS funds to re-schedule the paving contract work are included in the
Interim Budget Ordinance for the month of July 2013, so the interdepartmental
transfer of funds required to fund the paving contract in FY 2012-2013 can be
restored; and
WHEREAS the streets and cemeteries departments have excess funds available to
fund the increase in funds needed to provide recycling services;
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2012-2013 needs to be amended to
reflect a transfer of excess funds in the streets and cemeteries departmental
budgets to offset related charges to the solid waste department budget, an
increase of refuse collection fees revenue, and a return of funds to the
governing body so that the total amount of funds appropriated will not change;
and
   BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2012-2013 shall be
amended as follows:
GENERAL FUND                        Previous Amount    Increase/
(Decrease)   Amended Amount
Appropriations
Cemeteries – FICA               $ 765      ($ 765)      $ 0
Cemeteries – Contract Services         $ 21,000      ($ 9,000)      $ 12,000
Cemeteries – Departmental Supplies         $ 635      ($ 635)      $ 0
Cemeteries – Equipment Repair & Maintenance   $ 600      ($ 600)      $ 0
Streets – Salaries & Wages – FT         $ 71,300      ($ 18,800)      $ 52,500
Streets – Salaries & Wages – PT         $ 5,200      ($ 5,200)      $ 0
Appropriations
Governing Board – Contract Services      $ 14,400       $ 6,000      $ 20,400
Solid Waste – Contract Services         $143,000       $ 34,000      $177,000
Revenues
Refuse Collection Fees            $150,000      $ 5,000      $155,000
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in special session, June 27, 2013
            
s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
            
s/Regina Alexander, City Clerk
5) Cemeteries
Alderman Adams told the Board of complaints he received regarding the condition
of Northwood Cemetery and recommended part-time workers be brought back to help
with maintenance. Alderman Barnes stated that the contractors are not
responsible for cemetery maintenance because it was not written into their
contract. Board consensus to discuss this matter during the July meeting.
Adjournment – 4:20 p.m.
   Meeting adjourned upon motion of Alderman Powell, seconded by Alderman
Poole. Vote unanimous.
                  ____________________________________
                  Mayor
____________________________________
Clerk
JULY 11, 2013
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN             REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
JULY 11, 2013                 7:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS (CITY HALL) SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Todd Coring, Ken Karn, Mary Ellen Poole, Buddy Barnes,
         Jim Powell
ABSENT:       Alderman Nelson Adams
STAFF PRESENT:   Rob Gandy, Interim City Manager
         Regina W. Alexander, MMC, NCCMC
         Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
         Bonnie Bray, Finance Director
         Jerry Dove, Chief of Police
I.   Call to Order - 6:00 p.m.
   Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
2.   Invocation
   Alderman Poole welcomed everyone and pronounced the invocation.
3.   Pledge of Allegiance led by Alderman Poole.
   Mayor Howard and the Board expressed appreciation to the volunteers, Fourth
of July Committee and City staff for a well-planned and executed Fourth of July
celebration.
   ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Howard stated, “If any member of the Board know of
any conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict with respect to
matters on the agenda, to please state at this time.”
4.   Consent Agenda
   Alderman Barnes moved, seconded by Alderman Powell to add the annual renewal
of the franchise agreement between the County of Brunswick and the City for
ambulance services. Vote unanimous.
   Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Coring to approve the consent
agenda with the addition of the Ambulance Franchise Agreement with Brunswick
County. Vote unanimous. Motion passed. (Copy of Agreement Incorporated
Attachment #1)
·   June 13, June 21 and June 27 minutes approved.
·   Franchise Agreement with County approved for ambulance services
5.   Approval of Agenda
   Mayor Howard asked that the agenda be amended to add the following:
   1. Discussion of the 1029 building
   2. Fill Dirt, City land near Sunny Point
   3. Executive Session
   Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to approve the agenda as
amended to include 1029 building for discussion, fill dirt from City land and
executive session to seek legal advice from the City Attorney including a
personnel matter. Vote unanimous.
6. Public Comments
   None
7.   New Business
8.   Auditors – Berry, Padgett & Chandler, PLCC
   Mr. Menton Padgett, presented the City’s audited financial statements for
year ending
June 30, 2012. He briefed the Board on the financial condition of the City
explaining that the financials are in good shape with healthy fund balances
despite the problems encountered with record keeping from previous management.
He encouraged the Board to read the audit and stated his availability to answer
questions. (Audit Report will be placed on the City’s Website and a copy will
be available in the Finance and Clerk’s Office)
9.    Appointment(s)
   ABC Board – Mayor Howard recommended Harold Spencer be reappointed to the
ABC Board. Alderman Barnes moved, seconded by Alderman Powell to reappoint Mr.
Harold Spencer to a three-year term. Vote Unanimous. Motion passed.
10.   Board of Adjustment
   – Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to reappoint Harley
Lemons to a three-year term. Vote unanimous. Motion passed
11.    Other Business
   The Board discussed the right of way maintenance and hiring of part-time
personnel to assist with mowing and cemeteries.
   City Manager Gandy stated that the part-time personnel would be placed under
the Street Department and overseen by the Public Services Director effective
with FY 13-14 budget.
   Alderman Coring asked about the City owned tractor previously used to cut
City rights of ways and its where about. City Manager Gandy stated that he
would look into this matter.
12.   Other Comments
   Ten Twenty-Nine Building - Mayor Howard stated that the 1029 building is
ready for occupancy and asked the Board’s concurrence to reactivate the Space
Planning Committee comprised of Aldermen Adams, Powell and himself, and to seek
the assistance of a professional space planner. The Committee will bring a
recommendation to the August meeting as to what department(s) should occupy the
building.
   Alderman Powell asked about the $30,000 that was budgeted for the space
plan. It was noted approximately $22,000 was spent and the balance of funds
will carry over to the next budget year.
13.   Executive Session – 6:39 p.m.
   Regular session reconvened at 7:20 p.m., Alderman Coring moved, seconded by
Alderman Poole to re-enter regular session. Vote unanimous.
   Mayor Howard announced that the Board was updated on negotiations for
property on Hankinsville Alley and Attorney Isenberg will finalize the deed
from the donor.
   City Attorney Isenberg brought forth a matter concerning the donation of
Parcel 237DC1602 (Ligon Heirs) located near the fire department in exchange for
payment of delinquent taxes. Alderman Poole moved to authorize the City Manager
to pay up to $1600 in delinquent taxes in exchange for the parcel of land,
seconded by Alderman Karn. The vote of approval was unanimous.
   The Board also discussed continuing negotiations for fill dirt off City
property located near Sunny Point, and discussed possibility of leasing
property near the former Stevens Park for Parks and Recreation.
   Mayor Howard announced that Rob Gandy, the Interim City Manager Gandy would
not seek the full time position. He stated that the position has been
advertised and resumes’ received. Alderman Poole asked the Board’s approval to
open and review the applications and resumes’ with assistance from the City
Clerk. They will be placed in a folder for each member of the Board to review
and select those that they wish to be considered. Mayor Howard authorized
Alderman Poole to proceed.
   Mr. Gandy announced that the annual proposed operating budget FY 13-14 would
be presented Thursday, July 19 and the Public Hearing July 30, 6:00 p.m.
   Alderman Barnes requested advertisement for membership to the Beautification
Committee.
   Alderman Poole thanked everyone for involvement in the Fourth of July and
Alderman Karn as City Liaison.
   Alderman Poole asked the City Manager to ascertain the cost of recycling
weekly.
Adjournment – 7:35 p.m.
   The meeting adjourned upon motion of Alderman Powell, seconded by Alderman
Barnes. Vote unanimous.
                     __________________________________
                     Mayor
 
________________________________
Clerk
JULY 25, 2013, JULY 26 & 30th
SPECIAL MEETING- BUDGET
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN                               SPECIAL MEETING- BUDGET
JULY 25, 2013, JULY 26 & 30th RECESSED SESSIONS 6:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS                               SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Todd Coring, Ken Karn, Mary Ellen Poole, Buddy Barnes,
         Jim Powell, Nelson Adams
STAFF PRESENT:   Rob Gandy, Interim City Manager
         Regina W. Alexander, MMC, NCCMC
         Bonnie Bray, Finance Director
         Jerry Dove, Chief of Police
         Cindy Brochure, Tourism/Economic Development
         Heather Hemphill, Parks and Recreation
         Robert Tucker, Public Services
   Mayor Howard called the Special Meeting to order at 6:02 p.m. for review of
the FY 2013-2014 proposed budget and other matters i.e. real estate and
personnel
Closed Session 6:06 p.m. – Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to
go into closed session to discuss real estate matters and personnel under G.S.
143-318.11 (5) (6). Vote unanimous.
Regular Session Reconvened 6:25 p.m. - Alderman Powell moved, seconded by
Alderman Coring to re-enter regular session. Vote unanimous.
Mayor Howard announced that the Board discussed access to Hankinsville Alley,
possible two-year lease with Bald Head Island Ltd. for a ballpark lease, update
on the City Manager’s position and Rob Gandy Boulevard Extension off Highway NC
87.
Sewer Allocation Bald Head Island - Alderman Barnes moved, seconded by Alderman
Powell to accept $135,000 final payment from Bald Head Island for sewer
allocation for Indigo Plantation. The vote of approval was unanimous.
Lease Agreement Bald Head Island - Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman
Poole to accept a lease with Bald Head Island for two years with the following
provisions; land lease only, agreement worked out for ad valorem tax
arrangement and inclusion of 60 day out clause. The vote of approval was
unanimous.
City Manager – Mayor Howard asked Alderman Poole to organize resumes’ and
applications for the position of City Manager for Aldermen review.
BUDGET WORKSHOP
   The Board reviewed proposed departmental budgets while acknowledging that
there would be no ad valorem tax increase. Mayor Howard noted that there are
definite needs within departments and the City; however, the Board may wish to
review services to determine if some are necessary or can be handled
differently.
   The Board reviewed several departments and funds i.e. water/sewer, Tourism/
Economic Development, Parks & Recreation and cemeteries. The Board agreed that
additional time would be needed to review and discuss in-depth some
departmental requests. Some questions were asked about the Parks & Recreation
bus, City rate structure, requests for additional employees and the cemetery
contract. Ms. Bray told the Board that she would have revised budget sheets
with noted corrections for the July 26 meeting.
   Alderman Coring discussed parking at Whittlers Bench and the numerous
complaints about the change. He asked that the parking be reverted to its
original design with concurrence from the Board. City Manager Gandy informed
the Board that he spoke with the Public Services Director and asked that the
parking be changed back to the original design.
Recess – 8:40 p.m.   Mayor Howard recessed the meeting to Friday July 26, 2013,
6:00 p.m.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
-------------------------------------
JULY 26, 2013                BUDGET WORKSHOP -6:00 P.M.
Present:  Mayor Howard, Aldermen Poole, Karn, Barnes, Powell, Adams and Coring
Staff:  Regina W. Alexander, Clerk
    Bonita Bray, Finance Officer
Absent: City Manager Gandy
Mayor Howard called the meeting back to order at 6:07 p.m.
Mayor Howard and the Board acknowledged the death of Mr. George Mitchell,
Developer of Bald Head Island. Alderman Coring briefed the Board on a structure
fire off Long Beach Road.
Ms. Bray, Finance Director distributed corrected and updated budget material to
the Board.
Mayor Howard asked Ms. Bray for a 2012/2013 comparison for expenditures in the
Street Department. (This matter deferred to Tuesday, June 30)
Fire Department – The Board reviewed the salary line item, which Ms. Bray
stated was not an increase but changed because firefighters are considered part
time employees. She explained that this was a classification change, and if the
Board prefer, it can be restored to the way it was previously listed. The Board
agreed.
Rescue Squad – Mayor Howard recommended the Board consider budgeting to upgrade
the rolling stock in the Rescue Department. A new ambulance was purchased
fiscal year 2011-2012 and the City should consider budgeting for a second
ambulance in FY 2013-2014, which would not be purchased until 2014.
   Alderman Coring moved, seconded by Alderman Barnes to direct the City
Manager to seek bids to purchase an ambulance for the Rescue Squad with five
year financing. The vote of approval was unanimous.
   Mayor Howard, member of the Space Study Committee stated that the Rescue
Squad building is part of the 1029 study after a question from Alderman Coring.
Planning & Code Enforcement – No comments by the Board.
Police Department – Alderman Barnes asked about purchasing four (4) computers
for the Police vehicles. The Board discussed in detail with chief Dove the need
for part time civilian desk clerks. Mayor Howard asked Alderman Poole as Chair
of the Emergency Operations Committee to work with Chief Dove to ascertain if
these positions are cut, the effect it would have on the department and
services, while acknowledging that the additional revenues can be placed where
needed, ex. computers.
Building & Grounds - The Board acknowledged a request for an additional skilled
laborer position but did not see the justification and agreed 5 to 1 not to
fund the new position. Alderman Karn stated his support of the position.
Finance – The Board discussed with Ms. Bray funds ($6,000) in the budget to
outsource payroll and explained the outdated payroll software. She stated that
payroll takes 30% of the employee’s time and there have been times when it was
questionable whether the payroll would be produced. The Board asked that Ms.
Bray look at other software options and directed that payroll remain in house.
Alderman Poole suggested payroll and human resources be placed under the City
Manager. Mayor Howard acknowledged that this should be the Board or City
Manager’s decision.
Administration – The Board expressed the need to preserve City records and
appropriated $14,100 for a document retrieval system (Laser fiche) which would
be used to scan and digitize records.
Alderman Karn stated that video streaming ($10,600) should be delayed until the
logistics are worked out and a person identified to operate the system, in
addition to having the correct lighting in the Council Chambers. Mayor Howard
suggested the monies be placed in the Board contingency fund.
Tourism – The Board asked that justification be provided for the requested
position.
South Brunswick High School Booster Club - Melissa Hinnant, member of the South
Brunswick High School Booster Club asked the Board for a one-time donation to
have the City’s name placed on a banner as one of the sponsors for athletic
activities at South Brunswick High School. The Board unanimously agreed to the
$500 donation.
Other Business - Mayor Howard asked that City Manager Gandy initiate the
process for bid procedures to purchase an ambulance for the Rescue Squad and to
proceed with purchase of the Laser fiche system. He asked that Heather
Hemphill, Parks and Recreation Director, compile costs including square footage
for relocation of the three storage buildings behind the Maritime Museum.
No further business, the meeting was recessed until 4:00 p.m., Tuesday, July
30, 2013.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------
JULY 30, 2013         RECESSED SESSION          4:00 P.M.
Present: Mayor Howard, Aldermen Karn, Powell, Barnes, Adams, Coring and Poole
Staff: City Manager Gandy, Regina Alexander, Clerk and Bonnie Bray, Finance
Director
Mayor Howard called the meeting back to order.
Mr. Ed Boguskie, 502 West Brown Street, commented on the parking along Bay
Street and around the Whittlers Bench. He told the Board that visitors
understand about parking between the lines and the newly designed parking
brought order to the parking in addition to much needed parking spaces. He
suggested to the Board that the sign be removed and leave parking as designed
with the lines.
Police Department – discussion resumed concerning part time clerks in the
Police Department. Chief Dove presented a proposal effective September 5
stating that the hours of operation will be from 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. Monday
through Friday, and from 8:00 a.m. to 12 noon on Saturdays, Sundays and
holidays. This will save approximately $26,000 in wages. The new hours will
enable the department to continue providing We Care calls and to check on
citizens who participate in the program.
Alderman Karn expressed concern about customer service if the positions were
cut back.
Alderman Adams expressed concern about the City moving backwards instead of
progressing forward and acknowledged that citizens should, if the need arise,
be able to come to the Police Department and speak with someone on duty.
Mr. Gandy stated that Chief Dove was asked to review his departmental budget
and look at ways that he could reduce it and presented this proposal.
RECESS – 4:30 P.M.  Mayor Howard recessed the meeting to ride over to 11th
Street to formally re-open the Hankins Alley by removing the mound of dirt that
was placed at the mouth of the alley/road. (Hankinsville Alley)
RECONVENED MEETING: Budget Workshop 5:12 P.M.
The meeting reconvened and Mayor Howard announced that the mound of dirt had
been removed from Hankinsville Alley and the citizens were pleased.
Cost of Living Adjustment – The Board briefly talked about the 3% COLA that was
proposed in the budget. It was the consensus of the Board that the COLA be
based on a tier system as recommended by Alderman Poole. Mayor Howard asked
that it be placed on the workshop agenda to be held in August and to remove the
salary increases from the budget to a discretionary fund. Alderman Poole
motioned accordingly, seconded by Alderman Barnes. Discussion: Alderman Coring
asked if the salary increase would include those employees who received a
salary adjustment or bonus under the former City Manager before he resigned.
Alderman Adams asked if the COLA would be retroactive. Mayor Howard noted that
these decisions could be addressed during the workshop.
City Manager Gandy stated that he would develop a tier chart and provide it to
the Board.
Community Building:  Alderman Barnes stated that the Director of the Community
Building should be full time. It was his understanding when the department was
separated in FY 2012-2013 that the position would become full time. The
director will soon be out of hours because part time employees are only allowed
to work 1000 hours in a calendar year.
Alderman Karn questioned the need for making the position full time when the
City Manager did not make this recommendation in the budget and believes that a
full time position is not justified or needed.
Alderman Coring stated that all excess revenues generated from rental of the
building should be put into Phase II of the Community Building to enlarge the
facility as originally proposed. He further stated that the building is not
large enough to hold some functions and the City is possibly losing revenues.
Alderman Barnes motioned to make the Community Building Director full time
excluding overtime pay, seconded by Alderman Powell. Discussion: Mayor Howard
stated that it is premature to solidify the full time position and recommended
it be considered in the workshop. Amendment: Alderman Barnes amended the motion
to place the full time position in the budget and after study by the Board, a
full time position would be considered. Alderman Powell seconded the motion.
Discussion:  Alderman Adams questioned the cost of adding a full time position.
Alderman Karn stated that the Board should be prudent, investigate the need for
the position because the City Manager did not recommend it for this budget
year, and recommended the Board focus on the actual needs of the City.
Mayor Howard recommended that this the matter be deferred to the workshop.
Alderman Barnes then withdrew the motion.
Building and Grounds: Alderman Adams moved, seconded by Alderman Barnes to
place the position request on the workshop agenda. Vote unanimous.
Tourism/Economic Development:  Handouts with justification for a new position
and Tourism Director job description were given to Board members.  Alderman
Adams moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to place this item on the workshop
agenda. Discussion:  Alderman Karn acknowledged receipt of the justification
and list of job duties from the Tourism Director as the Board requested. The
vote on the motion was unanimous.
City Manager Gandy reaffirmed his recommendation to add a new position to the
Tourism/Economic Development Department. He also told the Board that he and
Chief Dove would implement the change recommended by the Chief and reduce the
Police Department budget accordingly. The Board concurred with the purchase of
four new computers for the Police Department and requested Chief Dove purchase
them from funds within his departmental budget.
Filming: Mayor Howard stated that this topic would be discussed at the August
meeting.
Adjournment – 6:15 p.m.
No further business, the meeting was adjourned upon motion of Alderman Karn,
seconded by Alderman Poole. Vote unanimous.
                  ______________________________________
                  Mayor
______________________________________
Clerk
AUGUST 8, 2013
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN             REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
AUGUST 8, 2013                6:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS (CITY HALL) SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:   Mayor Robert D. Howard
      Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Buddy Barnes, Jim Powell, Ken Karn, Nelson
Adams
STAFF PRESENT:   Rob Gandy, Interim City Manager
         Michele Windham, Deputy City Clerk
         Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
         J. V. Dove, Chief of Police
ABSENT:   Alderman Todd Coring
1.   Call to order - 6:00
Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
2.   Invocation
Alderman Adams welcomed everyone. Chief Dove pronounced the invocation.
3.   Pledge of Allegiance
Alderman Adams led the Pledge of Allegiance.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Howard asked, If any member of the Board
knows of a conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest
with respect to matters on the agenda, to please state at this time.
SPECIAL RECOGNITION
Mayor Howard and the Board recognized and presented a key to the city to Steven
Thomas, Eagle Scout who earned his Eagle Scott pin by completing a community
service project for installation of signs that identify the location of
veterans gravesites at Northwood Cemetery.
The Board recognized the Southport-Oak Island Dixie Youth All-Stars, a team of
eight-year-olds that achieved district and state championships and participated
in the regional championship in Rockwood, Tennessee. Each team member was
introduced and presented with special medallions. The four coaches each
received a key to the city.
4.   Consent Agenda
   a.   July 11, 2013 regular meeting minutes
      Mayor Howard pointed out a correction to dates on the last page of the
minutes.
   b.   Committee Reports
   c.   Proclamation - Wooden Boat Show
      At the request of Mayor Howard, a Proclamation in recognition of the
Southport Wooden Boat Show was read by the clerk.
PROCLAMATION
WHEREAS, on Saturday, September 28, 2013 the Southport Wooden Boat Show will be
held at the Old Southport Yacht Basin; and
WHEREAS, the 4 th Annual Southport Wooden Boat Show, sponsored by the SWBS
Committee in Conjunction with Downtown Southport, Inc. A 501 3 organization
will be held from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m.
WHEREAS, boats will be displayed in and around the historic Old Yacht Basin;
and
WHEREAS, visitors can meet and talk with wooden boat makers and owners; and
WHEREAS, visitors will be able to vote for their favorite boat entrant for the
Peoples Choice Award, and
WHEREAS, other awards will be given in various categories; and
WHEREAS, wooden boat shows across the country are popular with boat builders
and restorers; and
WHEREAS, the Southport Wooden Boat Show Committee encourages people to preserve
the wooden boat and nautical history for which Southport is known.
NOW THEREFORE, I Robert D. Howard by the power vested in me as Mayor of
Southport, North Carolina proclaim September 28, 2013 as Southport Wooden Boat
Show day in the City and invite citizens and surrounding communities to help
make this day a success.
Dated this the 8 th day of August 2013.
Robert D. Howard, Mayor   
Attest:
Michele Windham
Deputy City Clerk   
Alderman Poole moved to approve the consent agenda with revision made to the
July 11, 2013 regular meeting minutes, seconded by Alderman Powell. Vote
unanimous.
5.   Approval of Agenda
Mayor Howard asked that consideration of the ball field lease with Bald Head
Island, Limited be added to the agenda as the first order of new business.
Alderman Karn moved to approve the agenda as amended, seconded by Alderman
Powell. Vote unanimous.
6.   Public Comments 
There were no public comments.
7.   NEW BUSINESS
8.   Stevens Park Two Year Ball Field Lease with Bald Head Island, Limited
Mayor Howard presented a two (2) year lease with Bald Head Island Limited for a
3.27 acre tract of property located in Stevens Park. Addition of the 3.27 tract
with property currently owned by the City would allow the reopening of the
ballfields. Mayor Howard noted the lease is temporary and Bald Head Island is
drafting a master plan for future use of the property.
Attorney Isenberg confirmed the lease would be for $1 per year and can be
terminated as an agreement by both parties.
Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Barnes to accept the lease with
Bald Head Island Limited for a period of 24 months effective immediately. Vote
unanimous.
9.   Presentation by Ms. Kimberly Thompson on the Southport Community Garden
Ms. Kimberly Thompson, executive director of Keep Brunswick County Beautiful
spoke about a planned community garden on North Caswell Avenue behind the
Brunswick Community College Southport Center. The garden will have thirty 4' x
8' planter beds, two keyhole gardens, a compost area, two sources of water and
bench seating. The project is funded by a $20,000 Lowes Keep American Beautiful
community improvement grant and $10,000 Waste Management Think Green grant. She
stated the plans for the garden have been prepared, work is ready to begin and
the garden space will be available to the public for a small rental fee during
the growing period. Unrented spaces will be maintained by volunteers to support
local food banks. An informational meeting will be held Tuesday, August 13,
2013 at 7:00 p.m. at the International Longshoremen Association (ILA) Hall,
North Lord Street.
10.   Presentation by Ms. Katie McKee, Extension Agent, 4-H Youth Development
regarding the possible establishment of a community based 4-H club in Southport
Ms. Katie McKee discussed the pursuit by Brunswick County 4-H to develop
community based 4-H clubs in each town and city in the county. She outlined
results of recent research showing that young people who join 4-H are more
likely to go to college; likely to pursue careers in science, technology,
engineering, mathematics; less likely to use drugs and alcohol; and become
civically engaged. Ms. McKee requested assistance in recruiting individuals who
would be interested in leading a 4-H club. Ms. McKee provided an informational
handout and announced that a volunteer orientation meeting would be held at 6:
00 p.m. August 21 at the Bolivia County Center, Building N and a 4-H Fair would
be held September 30 through October 5.
11.   Report by Paul Fisher; Annual Conference of the North Carolina Eastern
Municipal Power Agency
Mr. Paul Fisher, the citys representative to the North Carolina Eastern
Municipal Power Agency, gave a report of the agencys annual conference held
July 31 through August 3 in Asheville, North Carolina. He gave a brief
historical overview of the agency and highlights of the keynote speakers and
their messages. He emphasized the economic impact of tourism, the importance of
cyber security and continuation of moving the electric system underground.
(Full report on file in the Clerks office)
12.   Review and approval of final plat for Phase II, Section VII of the Cades
Cove Subdivision
City Manager Gandy reported the final plat of Cades Cove subdivision, Phase II,
Section VII was reviewed and recommended by the Planning Board. Aldermen Barnes
and Poole praised the Planning Board for the thorough review process of the
submittal. Alderman Poole moved to approve the final plat for Cades Cove Phase
II, Section VII. Second by Alderman Barnes. Vote unanimous.
13.   Discussion regarding movie and television series billing
Referred to Emergency Operations Committee
14.   Appointment - Beautification Committee
Alderman Poole nominated Ms. Pamela Hardy for appointment to the Beautification
Committee. Alderman Barnes seconded the nomination. There were no other
nominations. The vote was unanimous for appointment of Ms. Hardy.
15.   Other Business
Mayor Howard reported the Building Committee was in receipt of draft
preliminary plans for the relocation of city offices to 1029 N. Howe Street. He
indicated Ms. Connie Keller, architect, had provided alternatives for the Board
to consider during a future workshop. Mayor Howard stated the Committee is
researching the cost and feasibility of installation of an elevator in City
Hall.
Alderman Adams reported the Gym Committee had met and toured the gymnasiums on
N. Lord and N. Atlantic streets.
16.   Other Comments - None
Adjournment
The meeting adjourned upon motion by Alderman Powell, seconded by Alderman
Barnes, the vote was unanimous.
________________________________
Mayor
_______________________
Deputy City Clerk
AUGUST 22 - 26, 2013
RECESSED SESSION
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN             RECESSED SESSION
AUGUST 22 - 26, 2013          6:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS (CITY HALL) SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Todd Coring, Ken Karn, Mary Ellen Poole, Buddy Barnes,
         Jim Powell, Nelson Adams
STAFF PRESENT:   Rob Gandy, Interim City Manager
         Regina W. Alexander, MMC, NCCMC
         Bonnie Bray, Finance Director
         Jerry Dove, Chief of Police
         Cindy Brochure, Tourism/Economic Development
         Vickie Potter, Director of Community Center
         Robert Tucker, Director of Public Services
Mayor Howard called the meeting back to order at 6:00 p.m.
Alderman Adams welcomed everyone; Chief Dove gave the invocation and Alderman
Adams led the Board in the Pledge of Allegiance.
Mayor Howard noted the purpose of the meeting was to discuss several budget
matters and asked that the City Manager selection process be added to the
agenda. Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to amend the agenda to
add discussion of City Manager selection process. The vote was unanimous.
1. Position(s) request in FY 2013-2014
Tourism – Alderman Barnes acknowledged the importance of tourism to the City
and recommended the requested position be funded as recommended by the Interim
City Manager. Alderman Powell agreed and acknowledged recent information he
learned during an ElectriCities Conference concerning the tourism industry and
the monies brought into North Carolina. Alderman Poole acknowledged that the
scope of tourism has changed. Alderman Karn noted the millions of dollars that
it brings to the local economy. Alderman Karn then moved, seconded by Alderman
Coring to fund the assistant tourism position. The votes were 6 ayes, Karn,
Coring, Poole, Barnes, Powell, and Adams. (Adams did not vote, but was counted
affirmative)
Community Center Director - Alderman Barnes stating during FY 11-12, this
position was separated from the Tourism Department and at that time, it was
stated that 90% of the employee’s time was spent coordinating and facilitating
use of the Community Center. It is his belief that making the position full
time would benefit the City by marketing, more hours spent on customer service
and availability to show the facility, and to make better use of the City’s
website as a marketing tool. He believes that the full time position is
justified. Alderman Barnes moved to make the part time director full time,
seconded by Alderman Powell. Discussion: Alderman Poole stated that the old
Visitor’s Center has been added to this department and the mission has changed.
The votes of approval were 5 ayes, Barnes, Powell, Poole, Coring, Adams. 1 no,
Alderman Karn. (Adams did not vote, but was counted affirmative)
Public Services – Mayor Howard stated that there was no unanimous support for
the requested assistant labor position and City Manager Gandy asked that it be
reconsidered at the September meeting.
Mr. Gandy told the Board that $130,000 surplus was placed in the Board’s
contingency and the positions will be funded from out of this lien item.
COLA – City Manager Gandy proposed a 3% cost of living adjustment, however, the
Board was concerned about lower level salaried employees and proposed that a
tier plan be designed to make the adjustments more equitable. Ms. Bray, Finance
Director presented the following tier chart for Board consideration plan for
Board consideration:
                         $70,000 - 100,000 - 1%
                             55,000 - 70,000 - 2%
                             40,000 - 55,000 - 2.5
                                               25,000 - 40,000 - 4%
Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Barnes to approve the tier chart
and cost of living increases to be effective August 1, 2013. The vote was
unanimous.
Rescue Squad Ambulance –City Manager Gandy asked for clarification on
directives to proceed with the process to acquire a new ambulance for the
Rescue Squad. After brief discussion, motion by Alderman Coring, seconded by
Alderman Karn to direct staff to begin the process of acquiring a new ambulance
in accordance with the proposal submitted by Chief Johnson, for one new Taylor
made 170” module 2012 GMC G4500 diesel chassis at a cost of $121,985.00 with
first payment to begin July 14-15. The vote of approval was unanimous. (Note:
This price is valid if ordered by July 28, and subject to prior sale, 6 months
build time)
City Manager Selection Process – Alderman Poole asked the Board to review
applications for the City Manager’s position and each Alderman select ten
applicants for consideration. (Applications located in the Mayor’s office) The
Board will recess the meeting to August 26, 6:00 p.m. at which time the
applications will be reviewed.
Police Department Computers – The Board discussed computers for police
vehicles, which were taken out of the budget. City Manager Gandy stated that
four computers could be paid from the contingency fund. Chief Dove told the
Board that the computers would speed up processing and locating stolen
vehicles, etc. Alderman Coring stated the need for the computers in the Police
vehicles.
Alderman Barnes moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to allocate $8,541.52 to
purchase four computers for the Police Department and the monthly charge for
the wireless cards be taken from the Police Department communications fund.
Vote of approval was unanimous.
Maritime Museum – Mayor Howard referenced the proposal to expand the Maritime
Museum, in which the City needs to relocate the storage units located behind
the museum. He previously asked Ms. Hemphill, Director of Parks and Recreation
to come up with a proposal and costs associated with the relocation. She
advised that it would be more cost effective to build a storage facility at a
cost of $5200. Alderman Barnes questioned who would disassemble the old units.
Alderman Adams recommended contacting Sunny Point and suggested Alderman Poole
make the contact.
Alderman Coring stated that he did not want to see storage units placed behind
the City Gym because children use that area and the Art Gallery is located near
that vicinity. City Manager Gandy stated that staff would look for another
location.
Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to approve up to $5200 for a
storage facility and the location to be approved by staff. Vote unanimous.
Surplus Equipment – City Manager Gandy and Robert Tucker, Director of Public
Services told the Board of the proposal to work with the State Surplus Division
to dispose of City surplus property for an 8% auction fee. Mr. Tucker explained
that this was recommended because of the specialized equipment from the
Wastewater Treatment Plant and being in a larger auction pool will give more
visibility and a better chance of selling the equipment.
Alderman Adams and Coring opposed paying an 8% fee when the City has held its
own auctions in the past.
Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to accept the recommendation
of staff and authorized using state surplus for an 8% fee. Votes were 4 ayes,
Aldermen Powell, Karn, Poole and Barnes. 2 noes, Alderman Coring and Adams.
Recycling – City Manager Gandy gave the Board additional information on
expanding curbside recycling and the associated costs.
Employees Benefit Package – Mayor Howard stated the Board might wish to have a
meeting later to review the employees benefit package. City Manager Gandy noted
that the health insurance costs is up to 28%.
Death - The Board acknowledged the passing of Ms. Cathy Fravel, a long time
City volunteer.
Recess - 7:35 p.m. Mayor Howard recessed the meeting until Monday, August 26,
2013, 6:00 p.m. at which time the Board will meet and review applications for
the position of City Manager.
(August 26, 2013 minutes taken by Alderman Poole in the absence of the Clerk
and City Manager)
26 August 2013                     Recessed Session
The meeting was called to order at 6:00 pm from recess by Mayor Howard.
Present were Mayor Howard and Aldermen Poole, Adams, Barnes, Powell, Coring and
Karn.
A motion was made by Alderman Barnes and seconded by Alderman Powell to go into
executive session to discuss the city manager applicants. Motion carried
unanimously.
At 6:55 pm a motion was made by Alderman Powell, seconded by Alderman Barnes to
come out of executive session. Motion carried unanimously.
Mayor Howard announced that the Board had reviewed 113 résumés and had selected
five applicants to move forward with an interview. The decision was unanimous
by the Board.
Further that the public would be kept informed.
At 7:00 pm, Alderman Adams motioned, seconded by Alderman Karn that the meeting
be adjourned. Motion carried unanimously.
(Submitted by Mary Ellen Poole, Mayor Pro-Tem, City of Southport, Board of
Alderman)
                     _____________________________
                     Mayor
________________________________
Clerk
SEPTEMBER 12, 2013
REGULAR MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR MINUTES
SEPTEMBER 12, 2013 6:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS  SOUTHPORT, NC 28461
 
PRESENT:   Mayor Robert D. Howard
Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Buddy Barnes, Jim Powell,
Ken Karn, Nelson Adams and Alderman Coring
STAFF PRESENT:   Rob Gandy, Interim City Manager
Regina W, Alexander, MMC, NCCMC
Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
J. V. Dove, Chief of Police
Bonnie Bray, Finance Director, Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation
Robert Tucker, Director of Public Utilities
1.   Call to order - 6:00
Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:03 p.m.
2.   Invocation
Alderman Barnes welcomed the public and Chief Dove gave the invocation.
3.   Pledge of Allegiance
Alderman Barnes led the Pledge of Allegiance.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Howard asked, If any member of the Board
Knows of a conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict with respect to
matters on the agenda, to please state at this time.
4.   Consent Agenda
   Alderman Coring moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to approve the consent
agenda with one change, to remove item #4 - Properties Committee report to
other business. The vote of approval was unanimous.
Approved:  
·   August 8, July 25, July 26, July 30 and August 22, 2013 minutes.
·   Resolution honoring S. Ellis Hankins upon his retirement from the League as
Executive Director
RESOLUTION OF THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT
WHEREAS, S. Ellis Hankins, Executive Director of the North Carolina League of
Municipalities, a leader in municipal government and leadership for nearly
thirty years, has announced his retirement; and
WHEREAS, S. Ellis Hankins began his career with the League in October, 1982 as
Assistant General Counsel and was promoted to Associate General Counsel; and
WHEREAS, S. Ellis Hankins was promoted to General Counsel and chief legislative
lobbyist in 1987 and served in that position until departing the League staff
in 1994; and
WHEREAS, S. Ellis Hankins returned to the North Carolina League of
Municipalities as its Executive Director in 1997; and
WHEREAS, S. Ellis Hankins is only the fifth full-time Executive Director of the
North Carolina League of Municipalities in the 105-year history of the
membership association representing nearly every municipality in the State of
North Carolina; and
WHEREAS, the work of S. Ellis Hankins benefitted the citizens of the cities and
towns in the State of North Carolina; and
WHEREAS, S. Ellis Hankins has worked to promote good government in North
Carolina through the League’s offering non-partisan advocacy, insurance, and
other services as directed by the membership.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport that they hereby honor S. Ellis Hankins, of the North Carolina League
of Municipalities for faithful service and lasting contributions to municipal
government.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that this resolution be made a part of the permanent
records of the City of Southport and that copies be forwarded to S. Ellis
Hankins.
DULY RESOLVED THIS THE 12 th Day of September 2013.
                                                                                                                                        
/s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
City Clerk
·   Resolution honoring Ken Raber upon his retirement as Senior Vice President,
Member Services Director of ElectriCities.
RESOLUTION OF THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT
WHEREAS, Mr. Ken Raber, Senior Vice President, Member Services for
ElectriCities has announced his retirement at the end of September; and
WHEREAS, Mr. Ken Raber has been an integral part of the ElectriCities team for
more than 34 years beginning his career in 1979 as a Cost Engineer and quickly
assumed a leadership role within the organization and was instrumental in the
operation and management of the North Carolina Eastern Municipal Power Agency;
and
WHEREAS, Mr. Ken Raber has made many valuable contributions to the ElectiCities
organization as well as the entire North Carolina Public Power Community; and
WHEREAS,  His knowledge of public power issues is impressive and has
contributed greatly and his assistance to the North Carolina Public Power
Community has been invaluable throughout the years he has served as the Senior
Vice President for Member Services.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport
that they hereby honor Mr. Ken Raber for his many years of faithful service to
both ElectriCities and the member cities and towns of the North Carolina
Eastern Municipal Power Agency.
DULY RESOLVED THIS THE 12th Day of September 2013.
                  
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander
City Clerk
·   Proclamation recognizing September 2013 as National Senior Center Month
National Senior Center Month
Proclamation
Whereas, older Americans are significant members of our society, investing
their wisdom and experience to help enrich and better the lives of younger
generations; and
Whereas, the Brunswick Center at Southport has acted as a catalyst for
mobilizing the creativity, energy, vitality, and commitment of the older
residents of Southport, North Carolina; and
Whereas, through the wide array of services, programs, and activities, senior
centers empower older citizens of Southport and surrounding communities to
contribute to their own health and well-being and the health and well-being of
their fellow citizens of all ages; and
Whereas, the Brunswick Center at Southport affirms the dignity, self-worth, and
independence of older persons by facilitating their decisions and actions;
tapping their experiences, skills, and knowledge; and enabling their continued
contributions to the community;
Now, Therefore, I Robert D. Howard, Mayor and the Southport Board of Aldermen
of the City of Southport, North Carolina proclaim September 2013 as National
Senior Center Month; and
Whereas, we   call upon all citizens to recognize the special contributions of
the Senior Center of Southport, its participants, and the specials efforts of
staff and volunteers who work every day to enhance the well-being of the older
citizens of Southport and surrounding communities.
ADOPTED, this the 12th day of September 2013.
                      /s/ Robert D. Howard
                           Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, City Clerk
·   Budget Amendments 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7
Budget Amendment #1
Fiscal Year 2013-2014
WHEREAS the City of Southport desires to continue programs undertaken by the
tourism director to increase services available to city visitors; and
WHEREAS additional staff is needed to fulfill the duties of these programs; and
WHEREAS the new position should be full time with annual pay of $25,000 plus
fringe benefits; and
WHEREAS the governing board has sufficient discretionary funds to assign for
this purpose;
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2013-2014 shall be
amended as follows:
                                             Increase/
GENERAL FUND                        Previous Amount      (Decrease)   Amended
Amount
                                                                                           
Appropriations
Governing Body - Contingency         $139,500      ($ 38,000)   $101,500
 
Appropriations
Tourism – Full-Time Employees         $ 50,400      $ 23,600      $ 74,000
Tourism – 401k Retirement Supplement      $ 2,600      $ 1,100      $ 3,700
Tourism – FICA                  $ 3,900      $ 1,800    $ 5,700
Tourism – LGERS Retirement            $ 3,600      $ 1,600      $ 5, 200
Tourism – Group Health            $ 9,400      $ 9,300      $ 18,700
Tourism – Unemployment Reserve         $ 300      $ 200      $ 500
Tourism – Workers’ Compensation Insurance      $ 600      $ 400      $ 1,000
 
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in special session, August 22, 2013.
                                                               s/ Robert D.
Howard, Mayor
s/Regina Alexander, City Clerk   
Budget Amendment #2
Fiscal Year 2013-2014
WHEREAS the City of Southport desires to use the old visitor center as an
smaller annex of the community building to make more event space available for
rent to city residents and outside parties; and
WHEREAS work hours spent by the community building director to manage both
buildings will be increased, as a result; and
WHEREAS the current part-time position should be expanded to full time with
annual pay of $29,000 plus fringe benefits; and
WHEREAS the governing board has sufficient discretionary funds to assign for
this purpose;
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2013-2014 shall be
amended as follows:
 
                                             Increase/
GENERAL FUND                        Previous Amount      (Decrease)   Amended
Amount
                                                                                           
Appropriations
Governing Body - Contingency         $101,500      ($ 26,500)   $ 75,000
Appropriations
Community Bldg – Full-Time Employees      $ -0-       $ 25,100      $ 25,100
Community Bldg - Part-Time Employees      $ 52,500      ($ 12,200)   $ 40,300
Community Bldg – 401k Retirement Supplement   $ -0-       $ 1,300      $ 1,300
Community Bldg – FICA            $ 4,000       $ 1,000      $ 5,000
Community Bldg – LGERS Retirement         $ -0-       $ 1,800      $ 1,800
Community Bldg – Group Health         $ -0-       $ 9,300      $ 9,300
Community Bldg – Workers’ Compensation       $ 1,500       $ 200      $ 1,700
 
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in special session, August 22, 2013
                                    s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
s/Regina Alexander, City Clerk   
Budget Amendment #3
Fiscal Year 2013-2014
WHEREAS the City of Southport desires to increase police department efficiency
by expanding Internet capability to officers in their vehicles; and
WHEREAS this goal can be accomplished with the installation of permanently
mounted laptop computers in four police vehicles; and
WHEREAS the governing board has sufficient discretionary funds to assign for
this purpose;
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2013-2014 shall be
amended as follows:
                                             Increase/
GENERAL FUND                        Previous Amount      (Decrease)   Amended
Amount
                                                                                           
Appropriations
Governing Body - Contingency         $ 75,000      ($ 8,500)      $ 66,500
 
Appropriations
Police – Departmental Supplies         $ 22,100       $ 8,500      $ 30,600
 
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in special session, August 22, 2013
      
                                            s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
s/Regina Alexander, City Clerk   
Budget Amendment #4
Fiscal Year 2013-2014
WHEREAS the City of Southport desires to relocate storage for parks and
recreation equipment previously housed in four containers with a total area of
520 square feet behind the Garrison House, reduced from 1,136 square feed at
Stevens Park prior to that; and
WHEREAS this goal can be accomplished with the installation of a single, 520
square-foot structure with a concrete foundation at a location to be
determined; and
WHEREAS the governing board has sufficient discretionary funds to assign for
this purpose;
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2013-2014 shall be
amended as follows:
                                             Increase/
GENERAL FUND                        Previous Amount      (Decrease)   Amended
Amount
                                                                                        
Appropriations
Governing Body - Contingency         $ 66,500      ($ 5,200)      $ 61,300
 
Appropriations
Parks & Recreation – Capital Outlay - Buildings   $ -0-          $ 5,200      $
5,200
 
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in special session, August 22, 2013
                                                s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
s/Regina Alexander, City Clerk   
Budget Amendment #5
Fiscal Year 2013-2014
WHEREAS the City of Southport has received and desires to accept payment from
Bald Head Island Limited for the second half of a sewer allocation agreement
involving the development of Phase II of Indigo Plantation; and
WHEREAS consideration for the first half was received in May 2004, per
negotiated terms of the April 2004 agreement; and
WHEREAS acceptance of each half provides up to 27,000 gallons of sewer capacity
per day at a rate of $5 per gallon; and
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2013-2014 needs to be amended to
reflect the revenues and appropriations necessary to allow use of these funds;
and
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2013-2014 shall be
amended as follows:
WATER & SEWER FUND                        Previous
Amount   Increase                             Amended Amount
Revenues
Sewer Impact Fees         $ 60,000      $ 135,000      $ 195,000
 
Appropriations
Contingency         $ 30,000      $ 135,000      $ 165,000
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, September 12,
2013
                                     s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor      
s/Regina Alexander, City Clerk   
Budget Amendment #6
Fiscal Year 2013-2014
WHEREAS the City of Southport has received and desires to accept a grant from
ElectriCities of North Carolina, Inc., to create walking maps of the downtown
city core; and
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2013-2014 needs to be amended to
reflect the revenues and appropriations necessary to allow use of these funds;
and
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2013-2014 shall be
amended as follows:
GENERAL FUND                        Previous Amount      Increase   Amended
Amount
Revenues
Miscellaneous Tourism Revenue      $ 5,500      $ 4,000      $ 9,500
 
Appropriations
Tourism - Departmental Supplies      $ 17,900      $ 4,000      $ 21,900
 
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, September 12,
2013
                                           s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
s/Regina Alexander, City Clerk   
Budget Amendment #7
Fiscal Year 2013-2014
WHEREAS the Board of Alderman for the City of Southport approved funding in the
amount of $12,000 for contract services to finish paving Northwood Cemetery in
the July 2013 interim budget; and
WHEREAS the fiscal 2013-2014 annual budget ordinance approved to take effect
August 1, 2013, should have incorporated all July 2013 interim budget
appropriations; and
WHEREAS the cemetery paving funding was inadvertently removed from the fiscal
year 2013-2014 annual budget ordinance, along with other, properly removed,
funding for contract services the board determined would best be fulfilled by
city employees; and
WHEREAS, the paving work begun in July was completed in August 2013; and
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2013-2014 needs to be amended to
reflect the revenues and appropriations necessary to pay the paving contractor
for this service; and
WHEREAS the governing board has sufficient discretionary funds to assign for
this purpose;
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2013-2014 shall be
amended as follows:
                                             Increase/
GENERAL FUND                        Previous Amount      (Decrease)   Amended
Amount
Appropriations
Governing Body - Contingency         $ 61,300      ($ 12.000)      $ 49,300
Appropriations
Cemeteries – Contract Services         $ -0-       $ 12,000         $ 12,000
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in special session, September 12,
2013
                                             s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
s/Regina Alexander, City Clerk   
·   Proclamation of Support in Honor of the 2013 Warrior Ride.
PROCLAMATION
Of Support in Honor of the 2013 Warrior Ride
Whereas, Warriors helping Warriors is an organization to foster the most
successful, well-adjusted generation of wounded service members in our nation's
history, and
Whereas, this organization was established to raise awareness and enlist the
public’s aid for the needs of injured service members, and
Whereas, the Warriors Organization help injured service members aid and assist
each other; and
Whereas, Warriors help to provide unique programs and services to meet the
needs of injured service members; and
Whereas, the Warrior Ride is a non-profit 501(c) 3 organization that uses
adaptive bicycling and other morale building events as a tool for recreation
and rehabilitation for our wounded heroes, and
Whereas, the 2013 Warrior Ride is slated for arrival in Carolina Beach, NC on
October 2, 2013, and
Whereas, October 3rd at 10:00 a.m. the cyclists will board the N.C. Ferry to
Southport N.C., and
Whereas, the Warrior riders will make a brief stop at the Southport Waterfront
Park and soon afterwards will journey to other towns and communities in
Brunswick County.
NOW THEREFORE, I Robert D. Howard, Mayor of Southport, NC and the Board of
Aldermen proclaim “The Warrior Ride 2013 Day”  in the City of Southport and
encourage citizens to come out in support of these brave service members.
This 13th day of September 2013.
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina W. Alexander, Clerk
5. APPROVAL OF AGENDA
   Alderman Karn moved to approve the agenda with the following amendments:
acquisition of City vehicle, space planning allocation and funding, and Lions
Club proclamation, seconded by Alderman Coring, vote unanimous.
Public Comments
   There were no public comments.
NEW BUSINESS
Second Reading – Southport Maritime Museum Expansion Project
   Alderman Powell stated that tourism is a $14 billion industry in North
Carolina and cited the number of tourists who visited the museum during the
height of the tourist season and believes the city should form a partnership
with the Friends of the Maritime Museum.
   Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Barnes to approve the second
reading of a proposal by the Friends of the Maritime Museum to allow the
expansion of the existing museum facility by 2,079 square feet. The vote was
unanimous.
   Attorney Isenberg stated the third reading would grant final approval for
the expansion project.
Review and approval of FEMA disaster prepositioning contracts: Phillips &
Jordan Inc., and Johnston Environmental & Disaster Consulting
   Mr. Tucker, Public Services Director told the Board that in order to
expedite cleanup after a major disaster. Bids were solicited in accordance with
FEMA guidelines for prepositioning service contracts for Disaster Debris
Clearance and Removal Services and Disaster Debris Monitoring Services. Request
for proposals were solicited from 22 firms. Six (6) firms responded and one
proposal received for Debris Monitoring Services. Staff recommended that the
prepositioning contract be awarded to Phillips and Jordan, Inc., Robbinsville,
NC for Debris Clearance and Removal and to Johnston Environmental & Disaster
Consulting Services, Wilmington NC for Disaster Debris Monitoring Services. The
recommendation was based on the capability of each firm to perform i.e. scope
of services, personnel, equipment and financial strength. Mr. Tucker noted in
the case of a natural disaster, it would be written in their contract that
local contractors would be hired.
   Alderman Powell stated he is familiar with the company and they are a FEMA
approved contractor.
   Alderman Adams voiced opposition to hiring outside contractors when local
contractors are capable of performing the same work.
   Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to accept staff’s
recommendation to hire Phillips and Jordan, Inc., of Robbinsville, NC for
Debris Clearance and Removal and Johnston Environmental & Disaster Consulting
Services,   Wilmington NC for Disaster Debris Monitoring Services.  Votes: 4
ayes, Aldermen Powell, Karn, Coring and Poole. 2 noes, Aldermen Adams and
Barnes. Motion passed    (Contracts Incorporated as Attachment #1)
Drainage, Site Distance and Parking Improvements to the 100 block of South
Davis Street
   Mr. Tucker explained by showing a schematic of the several drainage issues
in the 100 block of Davis Street where water runs off and does not drain
properly, which erode the driveways. He also stated parked cars along the
street have created access problems for residents. He proposed to cut shallow
swales in areas where there are driveways, post no parking signs, which would
give the residents some place to park, and make parking along East Bay and
Davis Street intersection parallel parking to alleviate site distance at the
intersection.
   Mayor Howard stated eliminating parking is suspect, No Parking Signs have
been erected in that area and the major traffic is on East Bay. Mr. Tucker
stated that the proposed configuration would not alleviate any parking.
   Alderman Adams stated that there are drainage problems in Ward II between
Lord, Owens and Leonard Streets. Mr. Tucker explained that the drainage is
stopped up from Clarendon and they are currently working on this situation.
   Alderman Karn moved to approve the project per staff’s recommendation,
seconded by Alderman Powell. Discussion:  Alderman Adams reiterated that Ward
II be given the same consideration as projects in Ward I. Alderman Poole stated
that she would like more time to review the project to get a better
understanding. Votes were 4 ayes, Karn, Powell, Barnes and Coring. 2 noes,
Poole and Adams. Motion passed
Discussion regarding new Rescue Squad Vehicle Purchase Proposal (Tyler Johnson,
Rescue Squad Chief
   This item deferred.
Southport Beautification Committee Appointments
   Alderman Barnes moved, seconded by Alderman Poole to appoint Mr. Thomas
Lombardi and Ms. Shirley Snyder to the Beautification Committee. (Appointments
are for unexpired terms) Vote unanimous.
   The Board acknowledged a letter from Ms. Pam Bruton resigning from the
Beautification Committee.
Other Business
   Administration Vehicle: Mayor Howard noted that the 2004 Crown Victoria
purchased for Administration was loaned to the Public Services Director and the
Board discussed purchasing a new vehicle for administration.
   Alderman Powell motioned to give the City Manager authority to spend up to
$25,000 to purchase a new vehicle for City Administration, seconded by Alderman
Karn. Discussion: Alderman Adams asked if the City was purchasing a car or
sports utility vehicle. Mayor Howard stated it was decided to purchase a car.
The vote of approval was unanimous.
   Lions Club Proclamation:  Deferred until the October meeting because Lion
Club members will be invited to attend the meeting for a formal presentation.
   Space Planning Recommendation: Mayor Howard, member of the Space Planning
Committee presented a power point presentation on proposed office layouts for
the 1029 building with drawings prepared by Architect Connie Keller. The plan
proposes to house Code Enforcement/Building Inspections, finance, City Manager
and City Clerk. Police Department will remain downtown at the current City Hall
location.
   Alderman Karn asked about insulation and energy conservation of the current
City Hall including remediation of mold found in the finance and Police
Departments. Mayor Howard stated that this would be considered during
renovations.
   Alderman Powell motioned, seconded by Alderman Barnes to accept the floor
plan and space allocation as presented, giving the City Manager authorization
to execute the remodeling and relocations in accordance with City policies,
ordinances and in accordance with the authorized space plan. Vote unanimous.
   Alderman Powell motioned, seconded by Alderman Poole to authorize the City
Manager to use funding designated in the building capital improvement fund
($130,000) for the 1029 building to include expenses for either the 1029
building or the City Hall building projects. Vote unanimous.
   Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Barnes to transfer the remaining
available funds to include loan proceeds originally allocated for use in the
construction of the City Fire Headquarters approximately $190,000 to use in
upgrading the City Hall Building.
Discussion: Alderman Coring asked if this had been addressed with Fire Chief
Cumbee since some things remain incomplete in the fire headquarters. City
Manager Gandy stated that he would speak with Chief Cumbee. Alderman Powell
withdrew the motion until additional information is received.
Other Comments
Parks & Recreation: Mayor Howard addressed the rumor that the Board plans to do
away with Parks and Recreation, which he stated is a rumor.
Traffic Violations:   Alderman Barnes addressed the issue of speeding, running
stop signs and driving down one-way streets. He asked Chief Dove to address
these issues with his officers. Alderman Karn suggested placing lines across
the streets for stop signs.
Film Industry: Alderman Poole reported that she attended a meeting in
Wilmington with representatives from the City of Wilmington and neighboring
towns. They discussed film incentives and the economic boost derived from the
movies filmed in Southeastern North Carolina. Concerns were discussed about
film incentives not being supported by the North Carolina General Assembly and
the effect it would have on jobs and the economy. She reported that Senator
Rabon and Representative Iler attended the meeting and Senator Rabon supports
the film industry and incentives.
Paving Project: Alderman Powell asked about the paving projects and asked that
the same consideration be given to each area of the City. Mr. Gandy asked the
Board to look at the list of priorities and give staff their feedback.
Parks & Recreation: Alderman Coring thanked the Parks and Recreation Department
for a successful Crab Derby.
   Alderman Karn stated that the master plan for the Parks and Recreation
Department is being developed and three Public Hearings will be held; October
14, 7 p.m., October 15, 6:30 p.m. and October 24, 6:30 p.m.
Rescue Squad: Alderman Coring thanked Chris Sillings, former Rescue Squad Chief
for his service to the City and Rescue Squad.
Lord Street Gym Committee: Alderman Adams reported that the Committee met and
they are trying to secure the gym from Brunswick Community College, an engineer
has been contacted concerning a study on the structural integrity of the gym
and they received a letter of support from the Parks and Recreation Advisory
Board. The Committee plans to meet again.
Brunswick Senior Resource Advisory Board: Alderman Poole thanked City Clerk
Regina Alexander for serving on the Board.
Community Garden: Alderman Poole reported that the land is cleared for the
Community Garden and encouraged participation.
Recess: 8:10 p.m. Mayor Howard called for recess until Monday, September 30, 6:
00 p.m. to consider approval of the resolution to purchase an ambulance for the
Rescue Squad and possibly announce a new City Manager.
RECESSED SESSION                  SEPTEMBER 30, 2013
Present:   Mayor Robert Howard, Aldermen Coring, Barnes, Adams, Powell and Karn
Absent:   Alderman Poole
Staff:      Regina W. Alexander, Clerk
      Robert Tucker, Finance Director
1.   Call To Order
Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
2.   Review and approval of Resolution authorizing the purchase 0f a 2012
Taylor made GMC 4500 Ambulance through the North Central EMS cooperative
purchasing program
Alderman Coring moved, seconded by Alderman Barnes to adopt the resolution
authorizing the purchase of a 2012 Taylor made GMC 4500 Ambulance through the
North Central EMS cooperative purchasing program and to authorize the City
Manager to solicit bids from a financial institution for a five-year
installment financing agreement. Vote unanimous. Motion passed
RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE PURCHASE OF A 2012 TAYLOR MADE GMC 4500 AMBULANCE
FROM FIRST CLASS OF MONROE, NORTH CAROLINA FOR $119,985 THROUGH THE NORTH
CENTRAL EMS COOPERATIVE PURCHASING PROGRAM AS AUTHORIZED UNDER NORTH CAROLINA
GENERAL STATUE 143-129(e)(3)
WHEREAS, The City of Southport has determined that its current 2002 E-450 has
surpassed its anticipated lifespan and is in need of replacement; and
WHEREAS, the City of Southport desires to purchase a replacement ambulance in
order to continue providing life-saving emergency and rescue services to the
citizens and residents of the area; and
WHEREAS, N.C. General Statute 143-129 (e) (3) provides an exception to the
requirements of Chapter 143, Article 8, for purchases made through a
competitive bidding group purchasing program which is a formally organized
program that offers competitively obtained purchasing services at discount
prices for two or more public agencies; and
WHEREAS, the City of Southport has contacted THE NORTH CENTRAL EMS COOPERATIVE,
a competitive purchasing program as authorized under General Statute 143-129
(e)( 3), seeking their assistance in acquiring an ambulance using
specifications to meet the City’s needs; and
WHEREAS, NCEMSC has completed the bidding process with manufacturers and Taylor
Made offering a 2012 and
WHEREAS, the Southport Board of Aldermen has determined that it is in the best
interest of the City of Southport to waive the normal formal bidding
requirements of NCGS 143-129 in order to purchase said equipment in accordance
with these cooperative purchasing programs.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the City of Southport Board of Aldermen,
that:
1.   The City waives the formal bidding provisions of N.C.G.S. 143-129; and
2.   The Board authorizes the City Manager to execute documents required to
purchase one Taylor
Made ambulance per submitted specifications from First Class through THE NORTH
CENTRAL
EMS COOPERATIVE Purchasing Program in the amount of $119,985 pursuant to
N.C.G.S. 143-129(e) (3) and
3.   The Board authorizes the City Manager to solicit for and accept bids from
qualified financing institutions prior to the completion of the build process
for a 5 year installment financing agreement for the full $119,985 purchase
price in FY 2013-2014, with the first annual installment payable in FY 2014-
2015; and to bring the suggested finance package back to the Board for final
approval.
DULY ADOPTED THIS 30th DAY OF SEPTEMBER, 2013
/s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:
/s/ Regina Alexander, City Clerk  
4.   Discussion of street paving project scheduled for the fall of 2013.
(Robert Tucker, Public Services Director)
   Mr. Tucker presented a list of paving priorities for Board review.
   Mayor Howard asked if the Traffic and Transportation Committee reviewed the
list of roads for paving. Mr. Tucker stated there was no review by the
Committee. Alderman Adams moved, seconded by Alderman Barnes to refer this
matter to the Transportation and Traffic Committee and to report at the October
meeting. Vote unanimous
   Mayor Howard asked that Howe Street to Nash and Atlantic be considered for
paving.
5.   Other Business
   Powell Bill - Mayor Howard asked for a financial accounting of Powell Bill
funds from the Finance Director.
   Fire Department Funds: Mayor Howard and the Board discussed transferring
approximately $190,000 from the Fire Station Construction fund for the purpose
of City Hall renovations. Chief Cumbee told the Board that there is
approximately $80,000 worth of work that remains to be completed at the fire
headquarters. Mr. Cumbee stated that it is his understanding that the fire fee
money can only be used for matters pertaining to fire departments. He
acknowledged that the Board may wish to seek a legal opinion on whether the
monies can be used for purposes other than fire department matters.
   Alderman Coring stated that it is his opinion the funds should be used for
the fire department or apply it towards paying off the debt.
   Mayor Howard stated perhaps the monies should be used to pay down the City’s
debt and borrow the money for City Hall renovations since there may be a legal
question of how and what the money can be used for.
   Alderman Karn moved, seconded by Alderman Powell to allocate $189,952 (as of
8/31/13 financial report) from the Fire Station Construction fund minus the
$80,000 that will be used to complete the remaining work at the fire
department, and to apply $109, 952 towards reducing the City’s debt on the Fire
Department. Vote unanimous.
   Lord Street Gym Funding: Mayor Howard informed the Board that the Lord
Street Gym Committee was appointed to discuss the feasibility of the gym and
its use. The Committee, chaired by Alderman Adams is requesting $2200 in seed
money plus reimbursable expenses to hire a licensed engineer to determine the
feasibility and structural integrity of the gym.
   Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Barnes to allocate $2200 and
reimbursable expenses to the Lord Street Gym Committee for the purpose of
hiring an engineer to perform a study on the gym and to authorize the City
Manager to work with the Committee. (Funds to be disbursed from Board
Contingency) Discussion: Alderman Karn stated the money would put the program
in a good place. The vote was unanimous.
Executive Session – 6:30 p.m.
   Alderman Coring moved, seconded by Alderman Barnes to enter closed session
to discuss employing a staff position. Vote unanimous.
Regular Session Reconvened – 6:55 p.m.
   Alderman Adams moved to re-enter regular session, seconded by Alderman
Barnes. Vote unanimous
   Mayor Howard announced that the Board gave instructions for contract
negotiations with a perspective candidate for City Manager and the announcement
will be made within the next week to 10 days.
3.   Adjournment.
   No further business, meeting adjourned upon motion of Alderman Powell,
seconded by Alderman Barnes. Vote unanimous.
                     _______________________________
                     Mayor
_____________________________
Clerk
OCTOBER 8, 2013
SPECIAL MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN SPECIAL MEETING
OCTOBER 8, 2013 6:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, NC 28461
 
PRESENT:    Mayor Robert D. Howard
      Aldermen Buddy Barnes, Jim Powell, Ken Karn
      Nelson Adams and Alderman Coring
ABSENT:   Alderman Mary Ellen Poole
STAFF PRESENT:  Regina W. Alexander, MMC, NCCMC
Mayor Howard called the Special Meeting to order at 6:00P.M. and announced the
purpose of the meeting was to make an offer of employment to a candidate for the position of
City Manager.
Alderman Powell motioned, seconded by Alderman Barnes to hire Kerry N.
McDuffie as
City Manager and to enter into an employment agreement effective November 11, 2013 based on
terms of the Agreement.  The votes were:
Alderman Adams, aye Alderman Karn, aye Alderman Powell, aye
Alderman Barnes, aye Alderman Coring, aye
Mayor Howard read an e-mail from Alderman Mary Ellen Poole in support of hiring
Mr. Kerry N. Me Duffie, as City Manager.
 Mayor Howard stated that he was in agreement with the
decision to hire Mr.McDufie. (Contract Incorporated  as Attachment #1)
Adjournment-6:10p.m.
No further business, Alderman Karn moved to adjourn the meeting, seconded by
Alderman Coring.  Vote unanimous.
Mayor
Clerk
OCTOBER 10, 2013
REGULAR MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MINUTES
OCTOBER 10, 2013  6:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS SOUTHPORT, NC 28461
 
PRESENT:   Mayor Robert D. Howard
Aldermen Buddy Barnes, Jim Powell, Ken Karn, Nelson Adams and Todd Coring
ABSENT:        Alderman Mary Ellen Poole
STAFF PRESENT:   Rob Gandy, Interim City Manager
         Regina W. Alexander, MMC, NCCMC
         Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
         J. V. Dove, Chief of Police
         Bonnie Bray, Finance Director,
         Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation
         Robert Tucker, Director of Public Utilities
      Cindy Brochure, Tourism/Economic Development Director
1.   Call to order - 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:03 p.m.
2.   Invocation
Alderman Karn welcomed the public and pronounced the invocation.
3.   Pledge of Allegiance
Alderman Karn led the Board in the Pledge of Allegiance.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Howard asked, If any member of the Board  knows of a
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict with respect to matters on
the agenda, to please state at this time.
4.   Consent Agenda
   Mayor Howard asked that item B-1, report by Transportation Committee be
moved to other business.
   Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Barnes to approve the consent
agenda as amended and to include budget amendment #11 and Capital Project
Budget Ordinance #1. Vote unanimous.
   a)   Review and approval of September 12, 2013 regular meeting minutes and
September 30, 2013 recessed meeting minutes - approved
   b) Review and approval of Municipal Records Retention and Disposition
Schedule
      Filed in Record Retention book in Clerk’s Office - approved
   c) Budget Amendments Nos. 8,9,10, 11 and #1, Capital Project Ordinance,
approved
Budget Amendment #8
Fiscal Year 2013-2014
WHEREAS the City of Southport has received and desires to accept a public
safety grant from Walmart for the purchase of tasers; and
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2013-2014 needs to be amended to
reflect the revenues and appropriations necessary to allow use of these funds;
and
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2013-2014 shall be
amended as follows:
                                             
GENERAL FUND                        Previous Amount      Increase   Amended
Amount
Revenue
Police – Miscellaneous Grants         $ -0-         $ 2,500      $ 2,500
Appropriations
Police – Departmental Supplies         $ 30,600          $ 2,500      $ 33,100
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, October 10, 2013
                                             s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
s/Regina Alexander, City Clerk
Budget Amendment #9
Fiscal Year 2013-2014
WHEREAS the Board of Aldermen for the City of Southport approved the purchase
of a passenger car for use by the governing body and administration staff; and
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2013-2014 needs to be amended to
reflect the revenues and appropriations necessary to purchase and register the
vehicle and provide funds for gas and regular maintenance for eight months; and
WHEREAS the governing board has sufficient discretionary funds to assign for
this purpose;
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2013-2014 shall be
amended as follows:
                                        Increase/
GENERAL FUND                        Previous Amount      
(Decrease)      Amended Amount
Appropriations
Governing Body - Contingency         $ 49,300         ($ 27,000)      $ 22,300
Appropriations
Administration – Capital Outlay – Vehicles      $ -0-         $ 25,000      $
25,000
Administration – Vehicle Supplies         $ -0-         $ 2,000      $ 2,000
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, October 10, 2013
                                                s/Robert D. Howard, Mayor
s/Regina Alexander, City Clerk
Budget Amendment #10
Fiscal Year 2013-2014
WHEREAS the Board of Aldermen for the City of Southport has established a
committee to conduct a feasibility study for future use of the old gymnasium
located on Lord Street; and
WHEREAS the Lord Street Gym Committee is authorized to engage the services of
an engineer to determine the facility’s structural integrity; and
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2013-2014 needs to be amended to
reflect the revenues and appropriations necessary to pay the engineer $2,200
plus reimbursable expenses for this service; and
WHEREAS the governing board has sufficient discretionary funds to assign for
this purpose;
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2013-2014 shall be
amended as follows:
                                     Increase/
GENERAL FUND                        Previous Amount   (Decrease)       Amended
Amount
Appropriations
Governing Body - Contingency         $ 22,300      ($ 2,300)      $ 20,000
Appropriations
Buildings & Grounds – Contract Services      $ 12,500       $ 2,300      $
14,800
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, October 10, 2013
                                                      s/Robert D. Howard, Mayor
s/Regina Alexander, City Clerk
Budget Amendment #11
Fiscal Year 2013-2014
WHEREAS the Board of Aldermen for the City of Southport desires to transfer
excess appropriations originally approved for the Fire Station Construction
Fund to the General Fund for the purpose of paying down the principle of the
outstanding construction loan; and
WHEREAS the fire station project will require approximately $80,000 to
complete; and
WHEREAS excess appropriations total approximately $110,000; and
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2013-2014 needs to be amended to
reflect the revenues and appropriations necessary to allow the funds to be used
in this manner; and
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2013-2014 shall be
amended as follows:
GENERAL FUND                           Previous
Amount      Increase      Amended Amount
Revenue
Transfer From Other Funds         $ 38,500       $ 110,000      $ 148,500
Appropriations
Non-Departmental – Administration Debt Service   $ 208,700       $
69,300      $ 278,000
Non-Departmental – Fire Debt Service      $ 125,000       $ 40,700      $
165,700
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, October 10, 2013
                                                     S/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
S/Regina Alexander, City Clerk
Capital Project Budget Ordinance #1
Fiscal Year 2013-2014
WHEREAS the Board of Aldermen for the City of Southport desires to transfer
excess appropriations originally approved for the Fire Station Construction
Fund to the General Fund for the purpose of paying down the principle of the
outstanding construction loan; and
WHEREAS the fire station project will require approximately $80,000 to
complete; and
WHEREAS excess appropriations total approximately $110,000 ; and
WHEREAS the capital project budget ordinance for this project needs to be
amended to reflect the appropriations necessary to allow the funds to be used
in this manner; and
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the capital project budget ordinance for construction of the
fire station shall be amended as follows:
                                    Increase/
FIRE STATION CONSTRUCTION FUND          Previous Amount   
(Decrease)               Amended Amount
Appropriations
Professional Fees            $ 194,666      ($ 100,000)   $ 94,666
Contingency            $ 79,647      ($ 10,000)   $ 69,647
Transfer to Other Funds            $ -0-       $ 110,000      $ 110,000
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, October 10, 2013
                                                S/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
S/Regina Alexander, City Clerk
6.   Proclamation –Vision Awareness Month October 2013
   Proclamation read by Alderman Barnes and presented to Lions Club members by
Mayor Howard and Aldermen.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1581_1271x1119.jpg]
 
Vision Awareness Month
Proclamation
Southport Lions Club
  WHEREAS, the Southport Lions Club is working to increase vision awareness,
especially among the youth through vision screening at local schools, and
  WHEREAS, the Southport Lions Club collected over 1,500 pairs of glasses in
the past twelve months and provides assistance to those needing but unable to
afford eye tests and the purchase of glasses, and
  WHEREAS, the Southport Lions Club will conduct vision screening the fourth
Thursday of each month at the New Hope Clinic and the Brunswick County Health
Festival in September, and
  WHEREAS, the Southport Lions Club continues to keep with the challenge Helen
Keller issued to the association in 1929 to become “knights of the blind in the
crusade against darkness,” and
  WHEREAS, the Southport Lions Club, established in 1945 is composed of men and
women volunteers who dedicate their time to the betterment of our community and
aiding those in need, and
  NOW THEREFORE, I, Robert D. Howard, Mayor of the City of Southport, NC and
the Board of Aldermen in recognition of this important service sponsored by the
Southport Lions Club, do hereby proclaim October as Vision awareness month.
Adopted October 10, 2013.
                                                         S/Robert D. Howard
                        Mayor, City of Southport, NC
Attest:
S/Regina W. Alexander, City Clerk
6. Approval of Agenda
   Alderman Adams moved, seconded by Alderman Karn to approve the agenda. Vote
unanimous.
7. Public Comments
   Mr. Rhodes Messick stated that after looking at the space analysis power
point presentation for relocating City offices at the September meeting, he
asked the Board when the move would take place and the amount of money it is
costing taxpayers to relocate City Hall.
8. NEW BUSINESS
9. Public Hearing to consider amendments to Article 2, Article 10, and Article
12, Section 12-19 of the Southport Unified Development Ordinance
   Alderman Barnes moved, seconded by Alderman Coring to enter Public Hearing
to receive comments on proposed amendments to the Unified Development
Ordinance, Article 2, Article 10, and Article 12 (Section 12-19). Vote was
unanimous.
   Mr. Grant informed the Board that the amendments are a culmination of work
by the Planning Board and former contract Planner, Jerry Haire. He explained
that there are four major points presented for consideration as set forth in
the information provided to the Board and will be included in the minutes.
    There were no public comments. Alderman Powell moved to close the Hearing
(6:28 p.m.) seconded by Alderman Barnes. Vote unanimous.
(Regular Session)
10. Review and approval of Ordinance approving text amendments to the Unified
Development Ordinance.
   Alderman Barnes motioned, seconded by Alderman Karn to approve the Ordinance
with text amendments to the Unified Development Ordinance as findings set forth
in the Ordinance. The vote of approval was unanimous.
AN ORDINANCE APPROVING TEXT AMENDMENTS TO THE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
   THAT WHEREAS, the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance and other
land use ordinances that control land development within both the City’s
incorporated areas and within its extraterritorial area; and
   WHEREAS, in order to promote the public health, safety and general welfare
and to promote the best interest of the city and community, it is necessary for
the City Board of Aldermen from time to time to consider appropriate revisions,
modifications and additions to the city’s land use ordinances; and
   WHEREAS, City Staff, in conjunction with the Planning Board, has prepared
proposed amendments to Article 2, Article 10 and Article 12 of the Southport
Unified Development Ordinance; and
   WHEREAS, the Planning Board has thoroughly considered this matter and find
the proposed amendments to the Unified Development Ordinance to be consistent
with the City of Southport CAMA Core Land Use Plan and recommend their
approval; and
   WHEREAS, pursuant to N. C. General Statutes and city ordinances, a public
hearing, properly noticed, was held on October 10, 2013, before the Board of
Aldermen regarding this issue; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen, after considering the public hearing
response and the recommendation of the Planning Board, hereby find that these
proposed amendments to Articles 2, 10 and 12 of the Unified Development
Ordinance are consistent with the Southport CAMA Core Land Use Plan; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that these amendments are
reasonable and in the public interest in that (i) these amendments are
necessary in order to promote efficiency in the administration of the Unified
Development Ordinance, and (ii) the amendments are reasonable and necessary to
correct and/or clarify inconsistencies that presently exist within the Unified
Development Ordinance.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that the
attached amendments to Articles 2, 10 and 12 of the Southport Unified
Development Ordinance are hereby approved and adopted.
      This, the 10th day of October 2013.
                     City of Southport
                     By: S/ Robert D. Howard
                        Mayor
ATTEST: s/Regina W. Alexander
    Clerk
Section 1.   ARTICLE 2. BASIC DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS, Section 2.2
“Definitions of Basic Terms” is hereby amended by adding the following
definition in the appropriate alphabetical sequence.
   Modular Unit. A factory built structure that is designed and built in one or
more components or sections that are transported to a site. Plans and
specifications shall bear an engineer’s seal and a third party inspection
certification and/or meet any successor regulations as may be established under
the N.C. State Building Code.
  Section 2.   ARTICLE 10. TABLE OF PERMITTED USES
(a)   The Table of Permitted Uses is hereby amended by replacing the Table
heading, “Business Services, Not elsewhere classified” with the heading
“Business, commercial or other non-residential use, not elsewhere classified”;
 and deleting the Table headings “Business services, not elsewhere classified,
without outside sales or storage and its accompanying supplemental regulations
in Section 12-19 (B) (4); “Amusement and Recreational Services, not elsewhere
classified”; “Social Services, not elsewhere classified” and “Retail Stores,
not classified elsewhere” and its accompanying supplemental regulations in
Section 12-19 (B) (36), in their entirety.
(b)   The Table of Permitted Uses is further amended by adding in the
appropriate alphabetical sequence under the “Residential Housing Types” section
of the Table, “Residential Cluster Development” and by placing a “C” in the R-
20, R-10 and PUD columns and by placing the following language in the
Supplemental Regulations column “Refer to Article 15”.
(c)   The Table of Permitted Uses is further amended by placing a “C” under the
Table heading “Research and Development” within the CBD column.
(d)   The Table of Permitted Uses is further amended by replacing the Table
heading, “Manufactured Home (individual) for Office or Exhibition” with the
heading “Modular Unit”.
Section 3.   ARTICLE 12. ZONING AND CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT APPROVAL, Section
12-19, “Supplemental Regulations” (4) and (26) are hereby amended as follows:
   (4)  Business services, commercial or other non-residential use, not
elsewhere classified. The business service must be an accessory use of the
property and not the principal use.
(a)   The Board of Adjustment must find that the proposed use will be similar
in character and intensity to other permitted or conditional uses provided for
within the district in which it is proposed. Such determination shall be noted
as a finding of fact and shall be included in the record of the final
disposition of the application.
(b)   The property shall be located on a collector or higher classified street
as designated on the City of Southport Thoroughfare Plan.
(c)   Any proposed outdoor operations, inventory display and/or storage must be
specifically approved by the Board of Adjustment who may establish any
additional conditions as may be determined necessary. Such conditions may
include, but shall not be limited to: screening, buffering, increased setbacks
or other appropriate conditions up to and including denial of such proposed
outdoor use for the location sought for due cause in order to protect, maintain
or promote the general public, health, safety and welfare. Such due cause shall
be noted as a finding of fact and shall be included in the record of the final
disposition of the application.
(d)   Parking and/or loading requirements shall be those noted for the use most
closely associated with the proposed use as listed in Section 16-3 as
determined by the Board of Adjustment in conjunction with staff review and
recommendation.
(e)   The Board of Adjustment shall reasonably consider and may require the
establishment of appropriate hours of operation for the proposed use should
they determine such limitation to be appropriate in order to protect, maintain
or promote the general public health, safety and welfare.
(f)   The Board of Adjustment shall consider and may require any additional
relevant time, place and manner conditions or restrictions as may be deemed
appropriate for the location sought for due cause in order to protect, maintain
or promote the general public health, safety and welfare. Such due cause shall
be noted as a finding of fact and shall be included in the record of the final
disposition of the application.
   (26)   Manufactured Home (Individual)   Modular Unit; for Office and/
or Exhibition.   Permanent/Temporary Placement Standards.
                   Modular units to be utilized for office or classroom use
must have been originally constructed for such use and shall not be a renovated
or modified manufactured home. Plans and specifications shall bear an
engineer’s seal and a third party inspection certification. The modular unit
must have a permanent foundation and conditional use approval if it is meant to
be located on site as a permanent fixture.
         (a)   Parking. One (1) space for each person employed in the office at
any given time during a twenty-four (24) hour period plus four (4) spaces for
visitors.
         (b)   Requirements. A temporary certificate of occupancy/compliance,
allowing manufactured homes   modular units   to be  used solely as offices or
for purposes of exhibition to be temporarily parked, maintained, and/or
occupied   for permanent stand-alone office space and to be located  on a
designated lot or land location, may be issued by the supervisor of inspection
services or his authorized agents where the Board of Adjustment finds as a fact
that the use of such manufactured home   modular unit  does not violate the
city or state building, electrical, or plumbing codes, or health regulations
and will comply with the provisions of this ordinance in all other respects.
  All such certificates of occupancy/compliance shall be valid for a period of
twelve (12) months, after which they may be renewed upon similar evidence of
use of such manufactured home.
         (c)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, a temporary certificate of
occupancy/compliance may be issued for a manufactured home  modular unit for
use as a temporary field office for contractors by the Administrator or his
authorized agents without approval of the Board of Adjustment, if the
manufactured home  modular unit :
            (i)   And the structure under construction are located on the same
property;
            (ii)   Is not moved to the site more than 30 days prior to
construction and is not removed not  later than 30 days after construction has
been completed;
            (iii)   Is not used for any other purpose other than that connected
with on-site construction;
            (iv)   Is justified by the size and nature of the construction
project;
            (v)   Is to be used for a period not to generally  exceed 18
months; with subsequent annual renewals permissible upon demonstrated continued
need;
            (vi)   Is utilized only incidental to on-site construction during
daylight hours and not for residential living quarters;
            (vii)   Is parked in a location approved in advance by the
Administrator or his authorized agents;
            (viii)   Sanitary facilities are connected with an approved sewer
system unless an on-site port-a-john is provided ;
            (ix)   Electrical facilities are connected in compliance with
regulations as set forth in the North Carolina State Building Code.
         (d)    Also notwithstanding the foregoing, a certificate of occupancy/
compliance may be issued for a manufactured home   modular unit  for use as a
manufactured classroom by a public or private school, for a school
administrative manufactured office, and  or for a manufactured home sales
office without approval of the Board of Adjustment, if the manufactured home 
following requirements are met :
            (i)   Sanitary facilities are connected with an approved sewer
system;
            (ii)   Electrical facilities are connected in compliance with
regulations as set forth in the North Carolina State Building Code;
            (iii)   Provisions pertaining to a manufactured home  modular unit
foundation and anchorage of the manufactured home to the foundation, as
contained in the State of North Carolina Regulations for Manufactured Homes,
2004 edition, are adhered to. shall be as provided in the NC State Building
Code or its successor document.
11. Discussion regarding the vendor portion of the Charles Dickens Festival
   Mayor Howard informed the Board that three business owners expressed concern
about vendors during the Charles Dickens Festival and he asked staff, with
concurrence from the City Manager, to conduct a poll of area businesses to
gauge their input.
   Ms. Cindy Brochure, Director of Tourism reported that 38 businesses were
polled and two questions asked. Eighty-seven (87%) acknowledged that they had
seen an increase in revenues in 2012 and 13% stated there was no increase. The
second question was whether events benefit Southport businesses including those
events that rely on vendor participation. 82% yes, 18% no because of issues
with the City not having festival guidelines.
   Alderman Barnes stated that Southport is beautiful at Christmas and he does
not want to see festivals turned into the Fourth of July with food vendors.
Mayor Howard stated that vendors would locate only in Franklin Square Park.
Alderman Coring stated it is his opinion what is done for one festival, should
be done for all. The festival had a few vendors last year in Franklin Square
Park and he does not believe that it was a big cost to the City because
Brunswick Electric brought in generators. Alderman Adams stated that he has not
seen an event held in the City where it did not cost money. Mayor Howard noted
that an e-mail was sent to the Board and City Manager stating that 60 vendors
would locate in Franklin Square Park. Alderman Karn suggested that the City
might consider writing a policy governing festivals so that everything can be
spelled out specifically as to what is taking place. Mayor Howard stated that
the festival is functioning on the authority previously given.
   Attorney Isenberg informed the Board that the City has an ordinance, which
requires vendors to apply for permits. (Article IV, Section 16-98) Charles
Dickens Festival would be governed by the same ordinance as other festivals.
The Board concurred that staff proceed with the Charles Dickens Committee as
before. Alderman Adams stated the Board might wish to look at how festivals are
governed, since there is some ambiguity concerning this festival. Mayor Howard
stated that e-mails were sent to the Board and City Manager. Chief Dove in
answer to Alderman Barnes question stated that the festival would provide its
own security.
12. Update from Robert Tucker on disposal of surplus equipment
   Mr. Robert Tucker, Public Services Director told the Board that Donna Boyan
had been trained on the state surplus system and upon entering data, it was
discovered that the exchange of vehicle titles needed to occur before the state
would list the items for sale. It was also discovered that three vehicle titles
were missing and the City is in the process of applying for replacement titles.
The State was given a directive to proceed with auctioning items where the
paper work is in order. He stated that everything should be posted by October
9, and the auction concluded by October 23.
   Mayor Howard asked that the surplus disposition update be placed on the
November agenda.
13. Presentation by Ms. Mary Friend, Beautification Committee
   Ms. Mary Friend, Chairperson of the Beautification Committee proposed a once
a month cleanup program to be held the first Saturday in each month from 9:00
a.m. until 12 noon, titled “ this is our Town” and asked for Board endorsement.
She asked for $100 seed money for bags, gloves, and to purchase plants. City
Manager Gandy announced that a $100 donation had been made and the City will
provide the gloves and bags. Announcements will be placed on the utility bill
and City’s website.
14. Appointment – Southport Beautification Committee
   Alderman Barnes moved to appoint Harry Burrell to the Beautification
Committee, seconded by Alderman Karn, vote unanimous.
15. Other Business
   Alderman Powell stated that the Transportation Committee met October 7, 2013
and recommended the following streets be re-surfaced. (Estimated cost: $175,000
/ Powell Bill balance of 10/10/13, $192,000)
·   Clarendon Ave from Hankins Dr to 9th Street
·   E. Stuart from Holly to Highland
·   E. Stuart from Highland to Atlantic
·   W. Leonard from Lord to Caswell
·   E. Nash from Frink to Willis Dr
·   Mitchell from Herring to Fodale
·   N. Atlantic from Nash to West
·   N. Lord from 11th to 12th Street
·   Caswell between 8th & 9th
·   E. Nash from Howe to Atlantic (excluding parking)
    Alderman Coring moved to accept the recommendation of the Transportation
Committee, seconded by Alderman Adams. Votes were 4 ayes, Aldermen Adams,
Coring, Powell and Karn. 1 no, Alderman Barnes
   Alderman Powell told the Board that he was approached by some citizens about
resurfacing 9th street, which is a state road. The Committee will submit a
request asking the State Department of Transportation to include 9th Street in
their resurfacing program.
    Alderman Adams asked that sidewalk recommendations be placed on the
November agenda for consideration.
   Mr. Tucker stated staff would mark and measure the patching and proceed to
advertise for bids, which should be no more than a three-month process.
   Alderman Adams commented that Short Street was taken off the list, which was
recommended by Alderman Barnes and asked for an explanation. Alderman Powell
explained that Nash was pulled from the list last year but was placed back on
because it is heavily traveled by postal customers and citizens. He stated that
there were other roads/streets that needs re-surfacing and there is the
possibility that they can be picked up with the next round of resurfacing
16. Other Comments
      Mayor Howard explained that the City Hall project was closed in late
February 2013 and the City Manager was directed to move forward with the
project. Mr. Gandy was hired as Interim City Manager and his priority was the
budget and audit. June 2013, Mr. Gandy informed the Board that he would not
seek the full time position of City Manager, therefore; the Board charged the
Building Committee to move forward with the project. Connie Keller was employed
to perform the space analysis in late July, which was approved at the September
meeting. The City Manager is in the process of getting the interior offices
painted and the furniture needs are being completed to move into the building.
This project has not caused any expense to the City because the buildings are
owned by the City. The City does receive approximately $84,000 - 85,000
annually in rental income for the 1029 building. The process has not moved as
expeditiously as it should have and moving should begin in November.
      Interim City Manager Gandy reported that the leaky roof on the current
City Hall is being repaired.
12. Adjournment – 7:16 p.m.
   Alderman Adams moved to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Alderman Powell,
vote unanimous.
                     _________________________________
                     Mayor
_____________________________________
City Clerk
NOVEMBER 14, 2013
MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN             MEETING MINUTES
NOVEMBER 14, 2013             6:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS (CITY HALL) SOUTHPORT, NC 28461
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Ken Karn, Mary Ellen Poole, Buddy Barnes,
         Nelson Adams and Jim Powell
ABSENT:      Alderman Todd Coring
STAFF PRESENT:   Rob Gandy, Interim City Manager
         Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
         Regina W. Alexander, MMC, NCCMC
         Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
         Jerry Dove, Chief of Police
         Cindy Brochure, Tourism & Economic Development Director
         Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
         Robert Tucker, Public Services Director
         Robert Grant, Administrative Support Specialist
         
1.   Call to Order - 6:00 p.m.
   Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
2.   Invocation – Alderman Barnes
   Alderman Powell welcomed everyone and Chief Dove pronounced the invocation.
   ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Howard stated, “If any member of the Board knows of
any conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with
respect to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
3.   Consent Agenda
   Alderman Poole moved, seconded by Alderman Barnes to approve the agenda as
amended. Vote unanimous.
   a) October 8, 2012 special meeting minutes and October 10, 2013 regular
meeting, approved
   b) Committee Reports
   c) Slate of officers 2014 Fire Department deferred to December 12
   d) Budget amendments approved
   e) Rescue Ambulance Financing placed under other business.
Budget Amendment #12
Fiscal Year 2013-2014
WHEREAS the City of Southport has received and desires to accept a grant from
ElectriCities of North Carolina, Inc., to provide tourism-related material for
promotional distribution outside the city; and
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2013-2014 needs to be amended to
reflect the revenues and appropriations necessary to allow use of these funds;
and
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2013-2014 shall be
amended as follows:
GENERAL FUND                        Previous Amount      Increase      Amended
Amount
Revenues
Miscellaneous Tourism Revenue      $ 9,500         $ 1,500      $ 11,000
Appropriations
Tourism - Departmental Supplies      $ 21,900      $ 1,500      $ 23,400
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, November 14,
2013
                  ______________________________   
                   S/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
_________________________
S/Regina Alexander, City Clerk
Budget Amendment #13
Fiscal Year 2013-2014
WHEREAS the City of Southport has received and desires to accept a grant from
the Southport Rescue Squad Auxiliary in partial payment of an ambulance cot and
related equipment; and
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2013-2014 needs to be amended to
reflect the revenues and appropriations necessary to allow use of these funds;
and
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2013-2014 shall be
amended as follows:
GENERAL FUND                        Previous Amount      Increase   Amended
Amount
Revenues
Rescue – Miscellaneous Grants         $ 2,500      $ 6,700      $ 9,200
Appropriations
Rescue – Capital Outlay - Equipment      $ 1,000      $ 6,700      $ 7,700
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, November 14,
2013
                  ______________________________   
                  S/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
_________________________
S/Regina Alexander, City Clerk
Budget Amendment #14
Fiscal Year 2013-2014
WHEREAS the City of Southport desires to aid city-based non-profit
organizations by selling their fundraising products at the Visitor Center gift
store without additional markup; and
WHEREAS the Southport Lions Club has increased its sales prices and exceeded
its inventory normally available for this purpose; and
WHEREAS the Southport Lions Club requires payment of inventory in advance of
sales; and
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2013-2014 needs to be amended to
reflect the revenues and appropriations necessary to allow use of these funds;
and
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2013-2014 shall be
amended as follows:
GENERAL FUND                        Previous Amount      Increase   Amended
Amount
Revenues
Tourism – Visitor Center Sales      $ 40,000      $ 9,400      $ 49,400
Appropriations
Tourism – Purchases for Resale      $ 24,500      $ 9,400      $ 33,900
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, November 14,
2013
                  ______________________________   
                S/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
_________________________
S/Regina Alexander, City Clerk
Budget Amendment #15
Fiscal Year 2013-2014
WHEREAS the Board of Aldermen for the City of Southport desires to place five
wooden trash can holders in the downtown area near the water tower; and
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2013-2014 needs to be amended to
reflect the revenues and appropriations necessary to purchase holders that
match existing; and
WHEREAS the governing board has sufficient discretionary funds to assign for
this purpose;
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2013-2014 shall be
amended as follows:
                                             Increase/
GENERAL FUND                        Previous Amount      (Decrease)   Amended
Amount
Appropriations
Governing Body - Contingency      $ 20,000      ($ 1,500)      $ 18,500
Appropriations
Buildings & Grounds – Departmental Supplies   $ 5,000      $ 1,500      $ 6,500
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, November 14,
2013
                  ______________________________   
                   S/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
_________________________
S/Regina Alexander, City Clerk
4. Approval of Agenda
   Alderman Poole moved to approve the agenda as amended to add reports from
the Lord Street Gym and Space Study Committees, seconded by Alderman Barnes.
Vote unanimous.
5. Public Comments
   Mary Friend, Chairperson of the Beautification Committee thanked everyone
for participating in the City cleanup.
   Leander and Cassandra Cowan of 502 West Owens Street told the Board of a
recent storm that caused them to lose electricity to their home. They stated
when the electricity was restored, it caused a major power surge and damage to
several electrical and electronic appliances. They told of tree limbs hanging
over the electric lines on City right of way that could have contributed to the
problem. City staff is aware of the situation and the city’s insurance carrier
has denied damages, which they dispute based on some of the justifications.
Mayor Howard asked staff for a report concerning this situation, and
representatives from the City would be in contact with them. Alderman Adams
asked that this matter be referred to the Utilities’ Committee and Public
Services staff. Mayor Howard so ordered.
RECESS – 6:20 p.m. – 6:55 p.m.
   Mayor Howard and the Board presented outgoing Interim City Manager Rob
Gandy, with a plaque of appreciation and commended him for a good job. The
Board welcomed Kerry McDuffie, new City Manager.
6. New Business
7. Planned Unit Development – Southport’s Way
   Mr. Grant presented Southport Way’s PUD for Board approval in accordance
with Article 14, Section 14-10. He stated that the Planning Board and staff
recommended approval to convert a remaining 14 unit multi-family section (not
developed) to 12 single-family lots and a reduction of the PRD line from 50
feet to 35 feet for lots 19-25. Alderman Barnes moved to approve the
amendments, seconded by Alderman Poole. Vote unanimous.
8. Surplus Auction
   Robert Tucker, Public Services Director reported that the City has sold
several of the surplus autos including ambulance, fire truck and portable air
compressor. The total amount of items sold was $7,449.84 and after deducting 8%
administrative fees, the City will receive $6,853.86. When the finance
department receives the missing titles for the other vehicles, those will be
posted with other remaining surplus equipment, which will complete the surplus
disposal project.
9. Bids – 2013-14 Street Improvement
   Alderman Powell and Robert Tucker presented three bids for street
improvements:
Southern Asphalt      $169,144.60
Turner Asphalt      $180,960.00
Barnhill Contracting      $209,754.00
   Alderman Powell recommended the Board accept the low bid of Southern Asphalt
for $169,144.60 and repairs be made to Holly and Short Streets with the
remaining monies ($5,000) seconded by Alderman Karn. Vote unanimous.  (The
amount of Powell Bill funds budgeted for street improvements was $175,000)
10. Voluntary Non-Contiguous Annexation Petition
   Alderman Adams moved to approve the voluntary annexation petition request
from Horsemint Properties, LLC (Hayler and Judith Osborn) annexing 0.59 acre at
1222 North Howe Street and to adopt the resolution directing the Clerk to
investigate the sufficiency of the petition in accordance with G.S. 160A-58.1,
motion seconded by Alderman Barnes. Vote unanimous.
Resolution Directing Clerk to Investigate
Petition Received Under G.S. 160A-58.1
WHEREAS, a petition requesting annexation of an area described in said petition
was received on November 14, 2013 by the Southport Board of Aldermen, and
WHEREAS, G.S. 160A-58.2 provides that the sufficiency of the petition shall be
investigated by the City Clerk before further annexation proceedings may take
place, and
WHEREAS, the Southport Board of Aldermen for the City of Southport deems it
advisable to proceed in response to this request for annexation.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport
that:
The City Clerk is hereby directed to investigate the sufficiency of the above-
described petition and to certify as soon as possible to the Board of Aldermen
the result of her investigation.
Adopted November 14, 2013.
                  _______________________________
                  S/Mayor
ATTEST:
______________________________________________________
S/ Clerk
11. Sidewalks
   Alderman Adams presented cost estimates for installation of sidewalks at St.
George from Clarendon to Burrington, Leonard Street from Lord to Caswell, Rhett
Street from East West to East Brown. He reported the total estimated cost is
$29,000 but the bid may come in lower. Alderman Adams motioned, seconded by
Alderman Barnes to direct staff to advertise for bids. Vote unanimous.
12. Way Finding Signs
   Ms. Peggy Popelars, representing Downtown Southport, Inc. and Cindy
Brochure, Director of Tourism and Economic Development presented a power point
showing the kiosk design with shopping, dining, museums and galleries. The
signs will direct citizens and tourists to various attractions in the City. DSI
provided $19,000; City procured a $4,000 grant from ElectriCities and a $2,000
in-kind match from the City for electrical connections for the lighted signs.
They propose to place a kiosk at Moore and Howe, Franklin Square Park, East
Howe and Nash, Howe and West, W. Howe & Owens. Possible future locations for
Phase Ii include Waterfront Park, Fort Johnston Museum & Visitor’s Center, New
City Hall, E. Moore &
Davis, Public works area. Alderman Adams looking at the proposed locations
stated that more people visit the waterfront park than Brown Street and
recommended Brown Street be placed in Phase II, and to include the Waterfront
Park in Phase I. Ms. Popelars stated that their goal is to place a larger kiosk
at Water Front Park, which cost approximately $7500 compared to $2500 for the
smaller sign at Brown Street. Mayor Howard stated that the additional cost for
a larger sign may not be feasible at this time. Due to the building renovations
project, the City does not have the monies to assist with procuring a larger
sign for the Waterfront Park at this time.
   Alderman Poole motioned to approve the locations recommended with the
understanding that the suggestion by Alderman Adams be presented to the
Downtown Southport Inc. Board for consideration. Motion seconded by Alderman
Karn. Vote unanimous.
13. Forestry Committee Appointment
   Alderman Karn moved to appoint Ms. Kitty Proctor to the Forestry Committee,
seconded by Alderman Barnes, vote unanimous.
14. Other Business
   a) Waterfront Management Coordinator
   Mayor Howard announced that the City would seek a part-time position for a
Waterfront Development Planner and staff positions could possibly be re-
assigned.
   b) Bald Head Island
   Mayor Howard announced that Bald Head Island representatives would be in
attendance at the December 12th Board meeting and a public forum will be held
to discuss the impact of the Bald Head Island Ferry and contributing factors to
erosion along the waterfront.
   c) Lord Street Gym
   Alderman Adams reported that an engineer hired out of Wilmington surveyed
the Lord Street Gym and the Committee is waiting on an official report, but all
appeared to be favorable.
   d) Space Study Committee
   Alderman Powell reported that the 1029 building had been painted,
workstations in place and in the process of computer and telephone hook-ups.
Roof repairs have been completed at City Hall.
   e) Rescue Squad Ambulance
   Alderman Barnes moved, seconded by Alderman Powell to authorize staff to
execute loan documents with New Bridge bank at 1.95% per annum plus $500
commitment fee for 5-years with payments beginning November 1, 2014. Vote
unanimous
15. Adjournment
    Alderman Adams moved for adjournment, seconded by Alderman Barnes. Vote
unanimous.
                     ___________________________________
                     Mayor
________________________________
City Clerk
DECEMBER 12, 2013
MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN MEETING MINUTES
DECEMBER 12, 2013 6:00 P.M.
FIRE DEPARTMENT   SOUTHPORT, NC
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Ken Karn, Mary Ellen Poole, Buddy Barnes,
         Nelson Adams, Jim Powell, Todd Coring and Alderman Elect
         Mary “Meezie” Childs
STAFF PRESENT:   Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
         Regina W. Alexander, MMC, NCCMC
         Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
         Jerry Dove, Chief of Police
         Cindy Brochure, Tourism & Economic Development Director
         Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
         Robert Tucker, Public Services Director
         Robert Grant, Administrative Support Specialist
         Bonnie Bray, Finance Director
         Greg Cumbee, Fire Chief
1.   Call to Order - 6:00 p.m.
   Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
2.   Invocation
   Pastor Charles Drew pronounced the invocation.
3.   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Coring led the Pledge of Allegiance.
4. Consent Agenda
   Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Coring to approve the consent
agenda.
   Vote unanimous.
   a) Review and approval November 14, 2013 minutes, approved
   b) Resolution directing Clerk to advertise Public Hearing for non-contiguous
annexation 1222 North Howe Street (Horsemint Properties, LLC)
        Approved
   c) Resolution in recognition of Brunswick County Arts Council, Charles
Dickens Festival 2013, approved
   d) Committee Reports
   Mayor Howard presented Ms. Jeanette Serens, President of the Brunswick
County Arts Council with the resolution of recognition.
5.   Public Comments
   There were no public comments.
6.   Recognition of Alderman Ken Karn
   Mayor Howard and the Board recognized outgoing Board member Ken Karn with a
resolution and plaque of appreciation for his service to the City as an
Alderman and member of several committees.
7. Old Business
a) Third Reading of the Maritime Museum Expansion – Mrs. Shirley Wilson,
Friends of the Maritime Museum
   The Board held the third reading of the proposal by The Friends of the
Maritime Museum for a 2,079 square foot expansion to the Museum. After brief
discussion, Alderman Karn made a motion to approve the proposal by the Friends
of the Maritime Museum to construct a 2,079 square foot expansion. Motion
seconded by Alderman Barnes and unanimously approved.
RECESS
8.    Swearing In Ceremony (Mayor Elect Robert Howard, Aldermen Elect Nelson
Adams, Mary “Meezie” Childs and Mary Ellen Poole)
   City Clerk, Regina Alexander administered the oaths of office to Robert D.
Howard, Mayor, Aldermen Mary “Meezie” Childs, Mary Ellen Watts Poole and Nelson
E. Adams.
9. Election of Mayor Pro Tempore’/ Oath of Office
   Alderman Barnes nominated Mary Ellen Poole for Mayor Pro Tempore’. No
further nominations, Alderman Powell moved that the nomination be closed,
seconded by Alderman Barnes, vote unanimous.
   Alderman Childs moved to elect Mary Ellen Poole Mayor Pro Tempore’ seconded
by Alderman Barnes. The vote was unanimous.
10. Approval of Agenda
   Alderman Powell moved to approve the agenda, seconded by Alderman Coring.
Vote unanimous.
11. New Business
    a) Recognition of Retiring Fire Chief Cumbee / Resolution
   The Board recognized Dale Southerland on his retirement at the end of
December 2013 as a firefighter with the City of Southport’s Fire Department for
37 years of service. Mark Southerland, accepted the plaque on behalf of his
brother.
   Mr. Randy Thompson retired Emergency Services Director for the County of
Brunswick and representing Rotary International with Dave Morgan, Past
President of the Southport Rotary, presented retiring Fire Chief Greg Cumbee
with a plaque of appreciation for outstanding service.
   Mayor Howard and the Board presented Chief Cumbee with a plaque and
resolution of appreciation for distinguished and outstanding service to the
City.
RESOLUTION
Of APPRECIATION
GREGORY S. CUMBEE, FIRE CHIEF
WHEREAS, Gregory Cumbee has served the City of Southport and the community
since 1965 as a member of the Fire Department and was elected Chief in 1989 to
the present, and
WHEREAS, Chief Cumbee has announced his plans to retire December 31, 2013 and
is being honored by the Board of Aldermen, community and citizens for his loyal
and dedicated contributions to the Southport Fire Department, and
WHEREAS, the performance of his duties and responsibilities were always
characterized by his commitment in getting the job done, and
WHEREAS, Chief Cumbee was steadfast in his devotion to duty which had a
valuable effect on the efficiency and professionalism within the Southport Fire
Department and its membership.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that Mayor Robert D. Howard and the Southport
Board of Aldermen express its sincere appreciation and wish Chief Greg Cumbee
continued success in life’s pursuits.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Mayor Robert D. Howard and the Board of Aldermen
proclaims December 31, 2013 as “Gregory Cumbee Day” in the City of Southport,
N. C. and further urge all citizens to join in acknowledgment of grateful
appreciation for a lifetime of unselfish and dedicated service to the citizens
of the Southport Community and Southport Fire Department.
Presented, this 12th day of December 2013.
            ________________________________
          S/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
________________________________      ________________________________
S/Mary Ellen Poole, Alderman            s/Todd Coring, Alderman
_______________________________         ________________________________
S/Nelson Adams, Alderman               s/Buddy Barnes, Alderman
_______________________________         ________________________________
S/Meezie Childs, Alderman             s/Jim Powell, Alderman
    b) Swearing in of New Fire Chief/ Assistant Fire Chief
   Alderman Barnes moved to approve the selection of Charles Anthony Drew, Fire
Chief and William Todd Coring, Assistant Fire Chief effective January 1, 2014.
Motion seconded by Alderman Poole, vote was unanimous. Mayor Robert Howard
administered the oaths of office.
   The Board congratulated newly elected officers of the Southport Fire
Department, effective January 1, 2014.
Chief Charles A. Drew         Assistant Chief, William Todd Coring
Captain Dickie Marlow         Captain Chris Thomas
Captain Ralph Treadway, Jr.         Lieutenant Charles T. Drew
Lieutenant Virgil Sasser         Lieutenant Jonathan Bullard
   Mayor Howard along with retiring Chief Cumbee presented badges to the
officers.
RECESS: 7:10 – 7:35 P.M.
12.   Public forum with representatives from Bald Head Island
    Mayor Howard announced that representatives from Bald Head Island were
present to give a presentation and answer questions concerning the waterfront
and wakes caused by the BHI Ferry boats, which is a contributor to erosion of
the waterfront.
   Present were Chad Paul, CEO of Bald Head Island Ltd., Claude McKernan,
Manager Bald Head Island Transportation, Inc. and Joyce Fulton, Director of
Communications, Bald Head Island Limited, LLC. A power point presentation was
shown addressing wake concerns. It was noted that all boats create wakes
depending on the size of the vessels, but BHI captains are usually blamed for
creating the wakes. Mr. McKernan explained that passing vessels also create
wakes while stating that most erosion occurs naturally. The shore along
Southport from Deep Point to the City pier is stable; but has eroded and
accreted many times over the years, while explaining that the lift station
beach was more vulnerable to wakes from their ferry operations out of Indigo.
He stated that they operate the same or greater speeds passing Caswell and no
erosion is apparent. He stated that Bald Head Island wants to continue being
good neighbors and shared with the Board their mitigation efforts: 1) Vessel
Masters know that they are responsible for their wake. 2) Route planning takes
wake into classification; a) current factors, flood or ebb, b) distance, stay
across river, 600 yards, c) approaches, effective, d) speed, balance schedule,
wake, fuel, 3) fuel consideration efforts aid in reducing wake and schematic
and explanation of their route.
   Several people spoke about the erosion and cited their bulkheads as examples
of erosion over the years, which the wakes from the Bald Head Island Ferry has
caused much of the problem. Nancy Crouch, 234 River Drive, Mary Ann Powell
(Landing), Robert Bach (Landing), Dora Loughlin, East Bay Street, Paul Fisher,
River Drive stated the City has been requesting assistance since 1987 and he
has lost 40-60 feet of marsh grass. Erosion is a problem in the City, some of
it can be controlled and some cannot. He cited three things for the Board to
consider; encourage organizations to get involved, follow-up with the Corp of
Engineers on completing a study of erosion along the riverfront, seek help from
the North Carolina Beach and Inlet Waterway Association, which the City is a
member of the organization. Julie Simpson of the Landing spoke about the waves
crashing around her bulkhead and she can pinpoint the time of day the ferry is
passing. Bill Herring stated rip rap should be placed along the waterfront, Al
Wilson of the Landing, stated catamaran wake causes erosion, and Dr. Brad
Hilaman of 612 River Drive addressed his concerns with the wakes from the
Ferry. Wayne Strickland stated that the Cape Fear Pilots should take some of
the blame because it is not only Bald Head Island Ferry causing the problems
and the City should press the Corp of Engineers for assistance.
   Mr. Roy Daniels of West Bay Street presented a power point presentation with
visuals on the course of erosion over the years along the waterfront.
   Alderman Powell stated that Bald Head Island also gets erosion from ship
traffic and the City needs to join forces to work with the Corp to find a
solution for its waterfront erosion.
   Mayor Howard noted that this situation is serious enough to warrant looking
at positions in City Government the first of the year to determine its
priorities and to consider the waterfront erosion problem.
Executive Session pursuant to NCGS 143-318.11 (6) – 9:10 p.m.
   Alderman Coring moved to enter closed session, seconded by Alderman Powell,
vote unanimous.
Regular Session Reconvened – 9:30 p.m.
   Alderman Powell moved to re-enter regular session, seconded by Alderman
Childs, vote unanimous.
   Mayor Howard announced that the Board gave City Manager McDuffie directives
to proceed with contract negotiations. The Board discussed and unanimously
agreed to give City Clerk Regina Alexander a $15,000 salary adjustment
effective January 1 through December 2014 due to special projects, she has
committed to complete before retiring the end of 2014.
   Salary Adjustment:  Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Barnes to
approve the $15,000 salary adjustment for City Clerk Regina Alexander. The vote
of approval was unanimous.
   Employee Christmas Bonuses: Alderman Barnes motioned, seconded by Alderman
Powell to give full time City employees $175 and part time employees $125
Christmas bonuses. The vote of approval was unanimous.
   Board Retreat: The Board scheduled January 18, 2014, 8:00 a.m. for the
annual board retreat. (Fire Department headquarters – EOC Room)
   Waterfront Project: Mayor Howard stated that the Board would need to hire a
professional to work on the waterfront project and recommended a meeting with
the Corp of Engineers’ representative because the project needs to move
forward.
   ElectriCities CEO Bonus: Alderman Barnes stated opposition to the CEO of
ElectriCities (Graham Edwards) being given a $50,000 bonus and do not believe
the citizens of Southport supports this decision by the ElectriCities Board.
Alderman Barnes moved, seconded by Alderman Adams to adopt a resolution
opposing the $50,000 bonus. Discussion:  Alderman Powell noted that Mr. Graham
was rewarded for doing an outstanding job and saving millions of dollars by
stabilizing rates. Alderman Coring stated that he needed more information
before voting on a resolution. Votes were 4 ayes, Aldermen Barnes, Adams, Poole
and Childs. 2 noes, Aldermen Powell and Coring. Motion passed.  City Manager
McDuffie was asked to draft a resolution opposing the $50,000 bonus.
Adjournment – 9:45 p.m.
   No further business, Alderman Childs moved to adjourn the meeting, seconded
by Alderman Powell, vote carried.
                     ___________________________________
                        Mayor
___________________________________
City Clerk
2014
JANUARY 9, 2014
MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN             MEETING MINUTES
JANUARY 9, 2014               6:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS (CITY HALL) SOUTHPORT, NC
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Buddy Barnes,    Nelson Adams,
         Jim Powell, Todd Coring and Mary “Meezie” Childs
ABSENT:      Alderman Nelson Adams
STAFF PRESENT:   Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
         Regina W. Alexander, MMC, NCCMC
         Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
         Jerry Dove, Chief of Police
         Cindy Brochure, Tourism & Economic Development Director
         Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
         Robert Tucker, Public Services Director
         Robert Grant, Administrative Support Specialist
         Bonnie Bray, Finance Director
1.   Call to Order - 6:00 p.m.
   Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
2.   Invocation
   Alderman Poole welcomed everyone and gave the invocation.
3.   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Poole led the Board in the Pledge of Allegiance.
4.   CONSENT AGENDA
   Mayor Howard asked that Item D be moved to Other Business. Alderman Powell
motioned to approve the consent agenda as amended, seconded by Alderman Barnes.
Vote unanimous.
    a) Review and approval of December 2013 Minutes - approved
     b) Approval of change in Drainage Project - approved
    c) Budget Amendments, Numbers 16,17,18,19, 20 – approved
Budget Amendment #16
Fiscal Year 2013-2014
WHEREAS the Board of Aldermen for the City of Southport desires to maintain the
plants and grass at the Moore Street roundabout in partnership with Bald Head
Island Limited; and
WHEREAS an outside contractor can accomplish this goal more appropriately than
city staff; and
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2013-2014 needs to be amended to
reflect the revenues and appropriations necessary to provide this service; and
WHEREAS the governing board has sufficient discretionary funds to assign for
this purpose;
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2013-2014 shall be
amended as follows:
                                             Increase/
GENERAL FUND                        Previous Amount      (Decrease)   Amended
Amount
Appropriations
Governing Body - Contingency         $ 18,500      ($ 800)      $ 17,700
Appropriations
Buildings & Grounds – Contract Services      $ 14,800      $ 800      $ 15,600
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, January 9, 2014
s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
s/Regina Alexander, City Clerk
Budget Amendment #17
Fiscal Year 2013-2014
WHEREAS the Board of Aldermen for the City of Southport desires to maximize the
availability of high-quality recreation programs that are fully funded by
registration fees; and
WHEREAS a youth basketball clinic organized by an outside contractor and
featuring a National Basketball Association player meets that criteria; and
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2013-2014 needs to be amended to
reflect the revenues and appropriations necessary to allow use of these funds;
and
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2013-2014 shall be
amended as follows:
GENERAL FUND                        Previous Amount      Increase   Amended
Amount
Revenue
Parks & Recreation Program Fees         $ 28,000      $ 1,200      $ 29,200
Appropriations
Parks & Recreation – Contract Services      $ 6,300      $ 1,200      $ 7,500
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, January 9, 2014
s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
s/Regina Alexander, City Clerk
Budget Amendment #18
Fiscal Year 2013-2014
WHEREAS the Board of Aldermen for the City of Southport desires to commence
development of the Ninth Street Park; and
WHEREAS the work is funded by previous appropriation to the Capital Reserve
Fund; and
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2013-2014 needs to be amended to
transfer sufficient monies back to the General Fund to contract for bushhogging
and lot clearing; and
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2013-2014 shall be
amended as follows:
GENERAL FUND          Previous Amount      Increase   Amended Amount
Revenue
Transfer from Capital Reserve       $ 8,000      $ 10,000      $ 18,000
Appropriations
Parks & Recreation – R/M Facilities       $ 14,100      $ 10,000      $ 24,100
CAPITAL RESERVE FUND          Previous
Amount      Increase                      Amended Amount
Revenue
Appropriated Fund Balance                $    -0-      $ 10,000      $ 10,000
Appropriations
Interfund transfer          $ 8,000      $ 10,000      $ 18,000
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, January 9, 2014
s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
s/Regina Alexander, City Clerk
Budget Amendment #19
Fiscal Year 2013-2014
WHEREAS the Board of Aldermen for the City of Southport budgeted sufficient
funds for updated analog software and annual support for the recordation of
board meeting minutes; and
WHEREAS the board desires to retain an older version of the analog software for
the recordation of planning board meeting minutes; and
WHEREAS annual support for the older version was provided for in the Governing
Body, not the Planning & Inspections Department, which budgets for the planning
board; and
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2013-2014 needs to be amended to
transfer the monies from one department to the other; and
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2013-2014 shall be
amended as follows:
                                             Increase/
GENERAL FUND          Previous Amount      (Decrease)   Amended Amount
Appropriations
Governing Body – Contract Services       $ 30,000      ($ 800)   $ 29,200
Appropriations
Planning & Inspections – Contract Services    $ 11,000       $ 800      $
11,800
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, January 9, 2014
s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
s/Regina Alexander, City Clerk
Budget Amendment #20
Fiscal Year 2013-2014
WHEREAS the Board of Aldermen for the City of Southport desires to install
additional electric infrastructure on Pebble Shore Drive; and
WHEREAS the City received fee revenue in a previous fiscal year in lieu of the
developer providing the additional infrastructure; and
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2013-2014 needs to be amended to
provide funding for this purpose; and
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2013-2014 shall be
amended as follows:
ELECTRIC FUND          Previous Amount      Increase   Amended Amount
Revenue
Appropriated Fund Balance          $ -0-         $ 7,200      $ 7,200
Appropriations
Capital Outlay – Facilities          $ 311,800      $ 7,200      $ 319,000
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, January 9, 2014
s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
s/Regina Alexander, City Clerk
d) Moved to other business
    e) Committee Reports
5.   APPROVAL OF AGENDA
      Mayor Howard requested a closed session as Item 9 for personnel and to
discuss legal matters with the City Attorney.
   Alderman Powell moved to approve the agenda as amended, seconded by Alderman
Coring, vote of approval was unanimous.
6.   PUBLIC COMMENTS
   There were no public comments.
7.    NEW BUSINESS
   a) Public Hearing on the question of annexing 0.59 acres of property owned
by Horsemint Properties, LLC located at 1222 North Howe Street (Hayler and Judy
Osborn)
   Alderman Barnes moved, seconded by Alderman Childs to go into Public Hearing
to receive comments on the question of annexing 0.59 acres of property owned by
Horsemint Properties, LLC located at 1222 North Howe Street. The vote was
unanimous.
   There were no comments from the public. Alderman Powell moved to close the
Public Hearing and re-enter regular session, seconded by Alderman Barnes. Vote
unanimous.
    b) Adoption of Volunteer Annexation Ordinance for 1222 North Howe Street
   Alderman Barnes moved to adopt the Annexation Ordinance, seconded by
Alderman Poole. Vote unanimous.
AN ORDINANCE TO EXTEND THE CORPORATE LIMITS OF THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT, NORTH
CAROLINA
WHEREAS, the City of Southport has been petitioned under G.S. 160A-58.1 to
annex the area described below; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen has by resolution directed the City Clerk to
investigate the sufficiency of the petition; and
WHEREAS, the City Clerk has certified the sufficiency of the petition and a
public hearing on the question of this annexation was held at Southport City
Hall at 6:00 pm on January 9, 2014 after due notice by publication on December
25, 2013 and January 1, 2014; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen finds that the area described therein meets the
standards of G.S. 160A-58.1(b), to wit:
a.   The nearest point on the proposed satellite corporate limits is not more
than three
(3) miles from the corporate limits of the (City/Town/Village);
b.   No point on the proposed satellite corporate limits is closer to another
municipality than to the City of Southport;
c.   The area described is so situated that the City of Southport will be able
to
provide the same services within the proposed satellite corporate limits that
it
provides within the primary corporate limits;
d.   No subdivision, as defined in G.S. 160A-376, will be fragmented by this
proposed
annexation;
e.   The City of Southport has a modification to the 10% limitation on the
total amount of satellite area by virtue of an act of the General Assembly; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen finds that the petition has been signed by all
the owners of real property in the area who are required by law to sign; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that the petition is otherwise
valid, and that the public health, safety and welfare of the City of Southport
and of the area proposed for annexation will be best served by annexing the
area described;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport, North Carolina that:
Section 1. By virtue of the authority granted by G.S. 160A-58.2, the following
described non
contiguous territory is hereby annexed and made part of the City of Southport,
North Carolina, as of the date hereof:
DESCRIPTION OF 1222 NORTH HOWE ST., SOUTHPORT, NC.
BEGINNING AT A FLAT IRON ON THE EASTERN RIGHT OF WAY OF NORTH HOWE STREET, SAID
POINT BEING LOCATED N-20-25-56-W 125.65’ FROM A REBAR ON THE SOUTHERN RIGHT OF
WAY OF 13th STREET, FROM SAID BEGINNING POINT LEAVING THE EASTERN RIGHT OF WAY
OF NORTH HOWE STREET RUNNING THENCE N-69-03-32-E 141.91’ TO A REBAR, THENCE N-
68-57-55-E 140.1’ TO A FLAT IRON,THENCE N-69-00-45-E 60.69‘ TO A REBAR IN THE
WESTERN RIGHT OF WAY OF NORTH ATLANTIC AVE., THENCE WITH THE WESTERN RIGHT OF
WAY OF NORTH ATLANTIC AVE. S-17-03-43-E 75.19’ TO A REBAR, THENCE LEAVING THE
WESTERN RIGHT OF WAY OF NORTH ATLANTIC AVE. S-69-01-49-W 55.55’ TO A IRON PIPE,
THENCE S-69-01-49-W 139.9’ TO A POINT, THENCE S-69-01-18-W 100.64’ TO A POINT,
THENCE S-69-01-36-W 41.45’ TO A FLAT BAR IN THE EASTERN RIGHT OF WAY OF NORTH
HOWE STREET, THENCE WITH THE EASTERN RIGHT OF WAY OF NORTH HOWE STREET N-21-00-
35-W 35.51’ TO A POINT, THENCE CONTINUING WITH THE EASTERN RIGHT OF WAY OF SAID
ROAD N-21-00-35-W 14.42’ TO A POINT, THENCE CONTINUING WITH THE EASTERN RIGHT
OF WAY OF SAID ROAD N-21-00-35-W 25’ TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING. CONTAINING 0.59
ACRES.
Section 2. Upon and after the date hereof, the above described territory and
its citizens and property shall be subject to all debts, laws, ordinances and
regulations in force in the City of Southport and shall be entitled to the same
privileges and benefits as other parts of the City of Southport. Said
territory shall be subject to municipal taxes according to G.S. 160A-58.10.
Section 3. The Mayor of the City of Southport shall cause to be recorded in the
office of the Register of Deeds of Brunswick County, and in the office of the
Secretary of State at Raleigh, North Carolina, an accurate map of the annexed
territory, described in Section 1 above, together with a duly certified copy of
this ordinance. Such a map shall also be delivered to the County Board of
Elections, as required by G.S. 163-288.1.
Adopted this 9th day of January 2014. 
                        s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:
s/Regina W. Alexander, City Clerk
    c) Public Hearing on Text Amendments to UDO – 6:08 p.m.
   Alderman Childs moved to enter Public Hearing for comments on text
amendments to the Unified Development Ordinance, seconded by Alderman Powell,
vote unanimous.
   Bob Grant, Administrative Support Specialist advised the Board that the
changes were in line with state law by making the Boards of Adjustment
consistent. He briefly discussed aspects of the law including super and simple
majority voting requirements. He advised that the Planning Board recommended
approval. The City Attorney reviewed the amendment, and information was
provided to the Board of Adjustment. No further comments.
   Alderman Barnes moved to close the Public Hearing and re-enter regular
session, seconded by Alderman Poole. Vote unanimous.
    d) Approval of Resolution with Zoning Text Amendments to the Unified
Development Ordinance to address recent legislative changes to the N. C.
General Statutes on the powers and duties of Boards of Adjustment
   Alderman Poole moved to approve the resolution adopting Zoning Text
Amendments to the Unified Development Ordinance relating to the powers and
duties of the Board of Adjustment, seconded by Alderman Barnes. Vote unanimous.
(Note: Document will be available to public on City’s Website with changes
incorporated)
AN ORDINANCE APPROVING TEXT AMENDMENTS TO THE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
RELATING TO THE POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
   THAT WHEREAS, the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance and other
land use ordinances that control land development within both the City’s
incorporated areas and within its extraterritorial area; and
   WHEREAS, in order to promote the public health, safety and general welfare
and to promote the best interest of the city and community, it is necessary for
the City Board of Aldermen from time to time to consider appropriate revisions,
modifications and additions to the city’s land use ordinances; and
   WHEREAS, City Staff, in conjunction with the Planning Board, has prepared
proposed amendments to Article 3, Article 5, Article 6, Article 7 and Article
12 of the Southport Unified Development Ordinance to promote and ensure
consistency with recent changes to the North Carolina General Statutes; and
   WHEREAS, the Planning Board has thoroughly considered this matter and find
the proposed amendments to the Unified Development Ordinance to be consistent
with the North Carolina General Statues and the City of Southport CAMA Core
Land Use Plan and recommend their approval; and
   WHEREAS, pursuant to N. C. General Statutes and city ordinances, a public
hearing, properly noticed, was held on January 9th, 2014, before the Board of
Aldermen regarding this issue; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen, after considering the public hearing
response and the recommendation of the Planning Board, hereby find that these
proposed amendments to the Unified Development Ordinance are consistent with
the Southport CAMA Core Land Use Plan; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that these amendments are
reasonable and in the public interest in that (i) they are necessary in order
to ensure consistency with recent changes to North Carolina General Statutes
related to the powers and duties of the Board of Adjustment, and (ii) the
amendments are reasonable and necessary to correct and/or clarify
inconsistencies and redundancies that presently exist or would exist within the
Unified Development Ordinance if not corrected concurrently with the proposed
amendments.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that the
attached amendments to Articles 3, 5, 6, 7 and 12 of the Southport Unified
Development Ordinance are hereby approved and adopted.
This, the 9th day of January 2014.            
                     City of Southport
                     By: S/Robert D.
Howard                                    Mayor
ATTEST:
S/Regina W. Alexander, Clerk
Section 1.   Repeal Sections 3-16 and 3-17 of Part II, of Article 3,
“ADMINISTRATIVE MECHANISMS” of          the UDO in their entirety.
Section 2.   Amend Article 5 of the UDO as follows:
ARTICLE 5.   APPEALS, VARIANCES, INTERPRETATIONS
Section 5-1:   Appeals
(A)   An appeal from any final order or decision of the administrator  official
may be taken to the Board of Adjustment by any person aggrieved party who has
standing under G.S. 160A-393(d).    The official who made the decision shall
give written notice to the owner of the property and the party who sought the
decision, if different.   An appeal is taken by filing with the administrator
official and the Board of Adjustment a written notice of appeal specifying the
grounds therefor. A notice of appeal, specifying the grounds therefor, shall be
considered filed with the administrator  official  and the Board of Adjustment
when delivered to the planning department  city clerk , and the date and time
of filing shall be entered on the notice by the planning staff clerk .
(B)   An appeal must be taken within   The owner or other party shall have  30
days after  from  the date of the decision or order appealed from  receipt of a
written final, binding determination by the official to file an appeal. The
written notice shall be delivered by personal delivery, electronic mail, or by
first class mail. Any other person with standing to appeal shall have 30 days
from the receipt of any source of actual or constructive notice of the decision
to file an appeal.
(C)   Whenever an appeal is filed, the administrator  official shall forthwith
transmit to the Board of Adjustment all the papers, documents and exhibits
constituting the record relating to the action appealed from, with a copy
provided to the appellant and land owner, if the landowner is not the appellant
.
(D)   An appeal stays all actions by the administrator official seeking
enforcement of or compliance with the order or decision appealed from, unless
the administrator official certifies by affidavit to the Board of Adjustment
after an appeal has been filed that (because of facts stated in the
certificate) because of the facts stated in an affidavit, a stay would, in his
opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property or because the violation is
transitory in nature a stay would seriously interfere with enforcement of the
ordinance. In that case, proceedings shall not be stayed except by order of the
Board of Adjustment or  a restraining order, which may be granted by a court,
issued on application of the party seeking the stay, for due cause shown, after
notice to the administrator.. If enforcement proceedings are not stayed, the
appellant may file with the official a request for an expedited hearing of the
appeal, and the Board of Adjustment shall meet to hear the appeal within 15
days after such a request is filed. Notwithstanding the foregoing, appeals of
decisions granting a permit or otherwise affirming that a proposed use of
property is consistent with the ordinance shall not stay the further review of
an application for permits or permissions to use such property; in these
situations the appellant may request and the board may grant a stay of a final
decision of permit applications or building permits affected by the issue being
appealed.
(E)   The official who rendered the determination that has been appealed shall
appear at the hearing as a witness.  The Board of Adjustment may reverse or
affirm (wholly or partly) or may modify the order, requirement, decision, or
determination appealed from and shall make any order, requirement, decision, or
determination that in its opinion ought to be made in the case before it. To
this end the board shall have all the powers of the officer from whom the
appeal is taken. The board shall continue the hearing if new issues are
presented at the hearing that were not in the notice of appeal and immediate
consideration might unduly prejudice a party of interest or the city.
(F)   When hearing an appeal pursuant to G.S. 160a-400.9 (e) or other appeal in
the nature of certiorari, the hearing shall be based on the record below and
the scope of the review shall be as provided in G.S. 160A-393(k)
Section 5-2:   Variances
(A)   An application for a variance shall be submitted to the Board of
Adjustment by filing a copy of the application with the administrator in the
planning department. Applications shall be handled in the same manner as
applications for permits in conformity with the provisions of Sections 12-3 and
12-4.
(B)   When unnecessary hardships would result from carrying out the strict
letter of the UDO  A  a  variance may  shall  be granted by the Board of
Adjustment if it concludes that strict enforcement of the Ordinance would
result in practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships for the applicant and
that, by granting the variance, the spirit of the Ordinance will be observed,
public safety and welfare secured, and substantial justice done. It may reach
these conclusions if it finds that   upon a showing of the following :
(1)   If the applicant complies strictly with the provisions of the Ordinance,
he can make no reasonable use of his property; Unnecessary hardship would
result from a strict application of the ordinance. It shall not be necessary to
demonstrate that, in the absence of the variance, no reasonable use can be made
of the property.
(2)   The hardship of which the applicant complains is one suffered by the
applicant rather than by neighbors or the general public;   The hardship
results from conditions that are peculiar to the property, such as location,
size or topography. Hardships resulting from personal circumstances, as well as
hardships resulting from conditions that are common to the neighborhood or the
general public, may not be the basis for granting a variance.
(3)   The hardship relates to the applicant’s land, rather than personal
circumstances;  The hardship did not result from actions taken by the applicant
or property owner. The act of purchasing property with knowledge that
circumstances exist that might justify a variance shall not be considered as a
self-created hardship.
(4)   The hardship is unique, or nearly so, rather than one shared by many
surrounding properties;   The requested variance is consistent with the spirit,
purpose and intent of the ordinance, such that public safety is secured and
substantial justice achieved.
(5)   The hardship is not the result of the applicant’s own actions; and 
(6)   The variance will neither result in the extension of a nonconforming
situation in violation of Article 8 nor authorize the initiation of a
nonconforming use of land.
(C)   In granting variances, the Board of Adjustment may impose such reasonable
conditions as will ensure that the use of the property to which the variance
applies will be as compatible as practicable with the surrounding properties.
The concurring vote of four-fifths of the Board of Adjustment shall be
necessary to grant a variance. The majority of the members shall be necessary
to decide any other quasi-judicial matter or to determine an appeal in the
nature of certiorari. For these purposes, vacant positions on the board and
members who are disqualified from voting on a quasi-judicial matter shall not
be considered members of the board for calculation of the requisite majority if
there are no qualified alternates available.
(D)    Appropriate conditions, which must be reasonably related to the
condition or circumstance that gives rise to the need for a variance, may be
imposed on any approval  variance  issued by the Board of Adjustment.
(E)   No change in permitted uses may be authorized by variance.
(F)   A variance may be issued for an indefinite duration or for a specified
duration only.
(G)   The nature of the variance and any conditions attached to it shall be
entered on the face of the zoning permit, or the zoning permit may simply note
the issuance of the variance and refer to the written record of the variance
for further information. All such conditions are enforceable in the same manner
as any other applicable requirement of this Ordinance.
Section 5-3:   Interpretations
(A)   The Board of Adjustment is authorized to interpret the zoning map and to
pass upon disputed questions of lot lines or district boundary lines and
similar questions. If such questions arise in the context of an appeal from a
decision of the Administrator official , they shall be handled as provided in
Section 5-1 and Section 6-2.
(B)   An application for a map interpretation shall be submitted to the Board
of Adjustment by filing a copy of the application with the administrator
official in the planning department. The application shall contain sufficient
information to enable the board to make the necessary interpretation.
(C)   Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of districts as shown on
the Official Zoning Map, the following rules shall apply:
(1)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines of
alleys, streets, highways, streams, or railroads shall be construed to follow
such centerline;
(2)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following lot lines, city limits,
or extraterritorial boundary lines, shall be construed as following such lines,
limits, or boundaries;
(3)   Boundaries indicated as following shorelines shall be construed to follow
such shorelines, and in the event of change in the shoreline shall be construed
as following such shorelines.
(4)   Where a district boundary divides a lot or where distances are not
specifically indicated on the Official Zoning Map, the boundary shall be
determined by measurement, using the scale of the Official Zoning Map;
(5)   Where any street or alley is hereafter officially vacated or abandoned,
the regulations applicable to each parcel of abutting property shall apply to
that portion of such street or alley added thereto by virtue of such vacation
or abandonment.
(D)   Interpretations of the location of floodway and floodplain boundary lines
may be made by the administrator  Floodplain Administrator  as provided in
Section 21-13(K).
Section 5-4:   Requests to be Heard Expeditiously within a Reasonable Time
As provided in Section 12-14, the  The  Board of Adjustment shall hear and
decide all appeals, variance requests, and requests for interpretations as
expeditiously as possible  within a reasonable time , consistent with the need
to follow regularly established agenda procedures, provide notice in accordance
with Article 6, and obtain the necessary information to make sound decisions.
Section 5-5:   Burden of Proof in Appeals and Variances
(A)   When an appeal is taken to the Board of Adjustment in accordance with
Section 5-1, the administrator  the official who rendered the binding decision
shall have the initial burden of presenting to the board sufficient evidence
and argument to justify the order or decision appealed from. The burden of
presenting evidence and argument to the contrary then shifts to the appellant,
who shall also have the burden of persuasion.
(B)   The burden of presenting evidence sufficient to allow the Board of
Adjustment to reach the conclusions set forth in Section 5-2(B), as well as the
burden of persuasion on those issues, remains with the applicant seeking the
variance.
Section 5-6:   Board Action on Appeals and Variances   Schedule of Fees
With respect to appeals, a motion to reverse, affirm, or modify the order,
requirement, decision, or determination appealed from shall include, insofar as
(A)      practicable, a statement of the specific reasons or findings of facts
that support the motion. If a motion to reverse or modify is not made or fails
to receive the four-fifths vote necessary for adoption (see Section 3-17), then
a motion to uphold the decision appealed from shall be in order. This motion is
adopted as the board’s decision if supported by more than one-fifth of the
board’s membership (excluding vacant seats).   
(B)      Before granting a variance, the board must take a separate vote and
vote affirmatively (by a four-fifths majority-see Section 3-17) on each of the
six required findings stated in Section 5-2(B). Insofar as practicable, a
motion to make an affirmative finding on each of the requirements set forth in
Section 5-2(B) shall include a statement of the specific reasons or findings of
fact supporting such motion.   
(C)      A motion to deny a variance may be made on the basis that any one or
more of the six criteria set forth in Section 5-2(B) are not satisfied or that
the application is incomplete. Insofar as practicable, such a motion shall
include a statement of the specific reasons or findings of fact that support
it. This motion is adopted as the board’s decision if supported by more than
one-fifth of the board’s membership (excluding vacant seats).     
   A schedule of fees to help defray the administrative expenses, notice
requirements and other related costs shall be maintained by the City of
Southport related to any application filed requiring Board of Adjustment
action. The schedule of fees may be modified from time to time by the City and
a current schedule shall be maintained on file with the City Clerk and the
Planning and Inspections Department.
Section 3.   Amend Article 6 of the UDO as follows:
ARTICLE 6.   HEARING PROCEDURES FOR APPEALS AND APPLICATIONS  (revised 6-12-08)
Section 6-1:   Hearing Required on Appeals and Applications
(A)   Before making a decision on an appeal or an application for a variance or
conditional-use permit, or a petition from the planning staff to revoke a
conditional-use permit, the Board of Adjustment shall hold a hearing on the
appeal or application  within sixty (60) days of the submittal of a completed
appeal or application in accordance with Section 5-4 unless an expedited
hearing is requested by an appellant in appeal situations where a stay of
enforcement is denied. All applications for a conditional use permit shall be
referred by the Administrator to the City of Southport Planning Board for
review and comment. All comments prepared by the City of Southport Planning
Board shall be submitted presented by the Planning Board Secretary Chairman, or
his or her designee, to the Board of Adjustment as evidence at the public
hearing required by this section. This representative of the Planning Board
shall attend the hearing and  be subject to the same scrutiny as other
witnesses. Review of the conditional use application by the City of Southport
Planning Board shall not be a quasi-judicial procedure but the hearing
conducted by the Board of Adjustment shall be. The City of Southport Planning
Board shall include in its comments a statement as to the consistency of the
application with the City of Southport Comprehensive Plan. Comments of the City
of Southport Planning Board shall be considered with other evidence submitted
at the public hearing.
(B)   Subject to Subsection (C), the hearing shall be open to the public and
all persons interested in the outcome of the appeal or application  with
standing under G.S. 160A-393(e)  shall be given an opportunity to present
evidence, and arguments and testify  arguments and testimony.
(C)   The Board of Adjustment may place reasonable and equitable limitations on
the presentation of evidence and arguments and the cross-examination of
witnesses so that the matter at issue may be heard and decided without undue
delay.
(D)   The Board of Adjustment may continue the hearing until a subsequent
meeting and may keep the hearing open to take additional information up to the
point a final decision is made. No further notice of a continued hearing need
be published unless a period of six weeks or more elapses between hearing
dates.
(E)   Except as provided in Section 12-13, the Board of Adjustment may not
rehear a quasi-judicial matter previously denied.
(F)   The required application fee and all supporting materials must be
received by the Administrator before an application is considered complete and
a hearing scheduled.
Section 6-2:   Notice of Hearing
The administrator or his designee  shall give  cause  notice of any hearing
required by Section 6-1 to be provided as follows:
(A)   Notice shall be given to appellant or applicant  the person or entity
whose appeal, application or request is the subject of the hearing , to the
owner of the property that is the subject of the hearing if the owner did not
initiate the hearing, to the owners of all parcels of land abutting the parcel
of land that is the subject of the hearing  and any other person who makes a
written request for such notice. by mailing to such persons a written notice
not later than 10 days before the hearing.   In the absence of evidence to the
contrary, the county tax listing shall be utilized to determine owners of
property entitled to mailed notice. The notice must be deposited in the mail at
least 10 days, but not more than 25 days, prior to the date of the hearing.
Within that same time period, the city shall also prominently post a notice of
the hearing on the site that is the subject of the hearing or on an adjacent
street or highway right of way.
(B)   Notice shall be given to neighboring property owners by mailing a written
notice not later than 10 days before the hearing to those persons who have
listed for taxation real property any portion of which is located within 150
feet of the lot that is the subject of the application or appeal. Notice shall
also be given by prominently posting signs in the vicinity of the property that
is the subject of the proposed action. Such signs shall be posted not less than
seven days prior to the hearing.
(C)   In the case of conditional-use permits, notice shall be given to other
potentially interested persons by publishing a notice one time in a newspaper
having general circulation in the area not less than seven nor more than
fifteen days prior to the hearing.
(D)(B)   The notice required by this section shall state the date, time, and
place of the hearing, reasonably identify the lot  property  that is the
subject of the application or appeal, and give a brief description of the
action requested or proposed.
Section 6-3:   Evidence/Presentation of Evidence
(A)   The provisions of this section apply to all hearings for which a notice
is required by Section 6-1.
(B)   All persons who intend to present evidence to the Board of Adjustment,
rather than arguments only, shall be witnesses to any matter coming before the
board shall be sworn by the board chair or any member acting as chair or by the
clerk to the board . The chair, or anyone acting as chair in the chair’s
absence, may subpoena witnesses and compel the production of evidence. To
request issuance of a subpoena, persons with standing under 160A-393 d) may
make a written request to the chair explaining why it is necessary for certain
witnesses or evidence to be compelled. The chair shall issue subpoenas he or
she shall determine to be relevant, reasonable in nature and scope and not
oppressive. Decisions regarding subpoenas made by the chair may be appealed to
the full board of adjustment. Any party failing or refusing to obey a subpoena
may be subject to application to the General Court of Justice for an order
requiring that the subpoena be obeyed and the court shall have jurisdiction to
issue such notices after notice to all proper parties.
(C)   All quasi-judicial decisions  findings and conclusions necessary to the
issuance or denial of the requested permit or appeal (necessary findings) shall
be based upon reliable  competent, material and substantial  evidence in the
record . Competent evidence (evidence admissible in a court of law) shall be
preferred whenever reasonably available, but in no case may necessary findings
be based solely upon incompetent evidence unless competent evidence is not
reasonably available, the evidence in question appears to be particularly
reliable, and the matter at issue is not seriously disputed.
(D)   The Board of Adjustment has the authority to limit testimony that is
irrelevant.
(E)   The entirety of a quasi-judicial hearing and deliberations shall be
conducted in open session.
(F)   Parties to a quasi-judicial hearing have a right to cross-examine
witnesses.
(G)   Factual findings must not be based on hearsay evidence which would be
inadmissible in a court of law.
(H)   If a Board of Adjustment member has prior or specialized knowledge about
a case, that knowledge should be disclosed to the rest of the Board of
Adjustment and parties at the beginning of the hearing. A member of the board
shall not participate in or vote on any quasi-judicial matter in a manner that
would violate affected persons constitutional rights to an impartial decision
maker. Impermissible conflicts include, but are not limited to, a member having
a fixed opinion prior to hearing the matter that is not susceptible to change,
undisclosed ex parte communications, a close familial, business, or other
associational relationship with an affected person, or a financial interest in
the outcome of the matter. If an objection is raised to a member’s
participation and that member does not recuse himself or herself, the remaining
members shall by majority rule on that objection.
Section 6-4:   Modification of Application at Hearing
(A)   In response to questions or comments by persons appearing at the hearing
or to suggestions or recommendations by the Board of Adjustment, the applicant
may agree to modify his application, including the plans and specifications
submitted . However, in the case of an appeal, the board shall continue the
hearing if new issues are presented that were not in the notice of appeal and
immediate consideration might unduly prejudice a party of interest or the City.
(B)   Unless such modifications are so substantial or extensive that the board
cannot reasonably be expected to perceive the nature and impact of the proposed
changes without revised plans before it, the Board of Adjustment may approve  
the application with the stipulation that the permit will not be issued until
plans reflecting the agreed upon changes are submitted to the planning
staff.   
Section 6-5:   Record
(A)   A tape recording shall be made of all hearings required by Section 6-1,
and such recordings shall be kept for at least two years. Accurate minutes
shall also be kept of all such proceedings, but a transcript need not be made.
(B)   Whenever practicable, all documentary evidence presented at a hearing as
well as all other types of physical evidence shall be made a part of the record
of the proceedings and shall be kept by the city for at least two years.
Section 6-6:   Written Decisions
(D)   Any decision made by the Board of Adjustment regarding an appeal or
variance or issuance or revocation of a conditional-use permit shall be reduced
to writing and served upon the applicant or appellant, and all   other persons
who make a written request for a copy .    
(A)   Decisions and voting by the Board of Adjustment regarding variances and
quasi-judicial matters shall be in accordance with Article 5, Section 5-2 (C).
Every quasi-judicial decision shall be reduced to writing and reflect the
board’s determination of contested facts and their application to the
applicable standards. The written decision shall be signed by the chair or
other duly authorized member of the board. A quasi-judicial decision is
effective upon filing the written decision with the clerk to the board. The
decision of the board shall be delivered by personal delivery, electronic mail,
or by first class mail to the applicant, property owner and to any person who
has submitted a written request for a copy prior to the date the decision
becomes effective. The clerk to the board shall certify that proper notice has
been made.
(B)   Every quasi-judicial decision shall be subject to review by the superior
court by proceedings in the nature of certiorari pursuant to G.S. 160A-393. A
petition for review shall be filed with the clerk of superior court by the
later of 30 days after the decision is effective or after a written copy is
delivered in accordance with the immediately preceding paragraph. When first
class mail is used to deliver notice, three days shall be added to the time to
file the petition.
Section 4.   Amend Section 7-6 of Article 7, “ENFORCEMENT AND REVIEW” as
follows:
Section 7-6:   Judicial Review
   Every final decision of the Board of Aldermen granting or denying a
conditional-use permit and every final decision of the Board of Adjustment
shall be subject to review by the Superior Court of Brunswick County by
proceedings in the nature of certiorari in accordance with the provisions of
Section 6-6. of Article 6.
(B)   The petition for the writ of certiorari must be filed with the Brunswick
County Clerk of Court within 30 days after the later of the following
occurrences:
(1)   A written copy of the board’s decision (see Section 6-6) has been filed
in the office of the planning department, and
(2)   A written copy of the board’s decision (see Section 6-6) has been
delivered by personal service or certified mail, return receipt requested, to
the applicant or appellant and every other aggrieved party who has filed a
written request for such copy at the hearing of the case.
(C)   A copy of the writ of certiorari shall be served upon the City of
Southport.   
Section 5. Amend Section 12-17 of Article 12, “ZONING AND CONDITIONAL USE
PERMIT APPROVAL as follows:
Section 12-17: Procedure for Conditional Use Permit Granted by the Board of
Adjustment (revised 6-12-08)
Conditional use permits may be issued by the Administrator, after approval by
the Board of Adjustment, for the uses as designated in Section 12-18:
Regulations for Conditional Uses. The petition for a conditional use permit and
accompanying plans shall be submitted to the Administrator in accordance with
Section 12-5. If determined to be complete, the application shall be processed
in accordance with provisions pertaining to quasi-judicial hearings contained
in Article 6.   The Board of Adjustment shall consider the application and may
approve or deny the requested conditional use permit. A four-fifth majority of
the entire Board is required to find in favor of an applicant for a conditional
use permit. For the purposes of this section, vacant positions on the board and
members who are disqualified from voting on a quasi-judicial matter shall not
be considered “members of the Board” for calculation of
the requisite majority. When deciding conditional use permits, the Board of
Adjustment shall follow quasi-judicial procedures. (See also Sections 3-15,3-
19, and Section 6-1 of this Ordinance).   
The conditional use permit, if approved, shall include approval of plans as may
be required. In approving the permit, the Board of Adjustment shall find as a
specific finding of fact and reflect in their minutes that the permit will
comply with the following four facts:
(A)   That the use will not materially endanger the public health, safety, or
general welfare if located where proposed and developed according to the plan
as submitted and approved;
(B)   That the use meets all required conditions and specifications;
(C)   That the use will not adversely affect the use or any physical attribute
of adjoining or abutting property, or that the use is a public necessity; and
(D)   That the location and character of the use, if developed according to the
plan as submitted and approved, will be in harmony with the area in which it is
to be located and in general conformity with the City of Southport Land Use
Plan.
In approving the conditional use permit, the Board of Adjustment may designate,
such conditions in addition and in connection therewith as will, in its
opinion, assure that the use in its proposed location will be harmonious with
the area in which it is proposed to be located and with the spirit of this
Ordinance. All such additional conditions shall be entered in the minutes of
the meeting at which the conditional use permit is granted and also on the
conditional use permit approving, and on the approved plans submitted
therewith. All specific conditions shall run with the land and shall be binding
on the original applicant for the conditional use permit, the heirs,
successors, and assigns. In order to ensure that such conditions and
requirements for each conditional use permit will be fulfilled, the petitioner
for the conditional use permit may be required to enter into a contract with
the City of Southport providing for the installation of the physical
improvements required as a basis for the issuance of the conditional use
permit. Performance of said contract shall be secured by cash or surety bond
which will cover the total estimated cost of the improvements as determined by
the City of Southport; provided, however, that said bond may be waived by the
City Board of Aldermen within its discretion.
If the Board of Adjustment denies the permit, it shall enter the reason for its
action in the minutes of the meeting at which the action is taken.
In addition to the conditions specifically imposed by the Board of Adjustment,
conditional uses shall comply with all minimum standards contained in this
ordinance, and with the height, area, and parking regulations of the zone in
which they are located.
In the event of failure to comply with the plans approved by the Board of
Adjustment or with any other conditions imposed upon the conditional use
permit, the permit shall thereupon immediately become void and of no effect. No
building permits for further construction nor a certificate of compliance under
this conditional use permit shall be issued, and the use of all completed
structures shall immediately cease and such completed structures not thereafter
be used for any purpose other than a use-by-right as permitted by the zone in
which the property is located.
Where plans are required to be submitted and approved as part of the
application for a conditional use permit, modifications of the original plans
may be authorized by the Board of Adjustment after review  during the quasi-
judicial proceeding.
   e) Presentation of Budgetary Report FY 13 – Bonnie Bray, Finance Director
    Ms. Bray reviewed with the Board the general fund budgetary report year
ending June 30, 2013 prepared by the auditors. City took in more revenue than
projected, $79,625.
    Mayor Howard asked the finance director for a detailed financial report
i.e. positions by budget comparison.
   f) Board approval of contract extension for Auditing Services- Bonnie Bray,
Finance Director (Audit will be presented by Berry, Padgett & Chandler
February 13, 2014) 
   Motion by Alderman Powell, seconded by Alderman Coring to approve the
contract extension changing date from October to January 31, 2014. Vote
unanimous.
    g) Appointment(s) to the Forestry Committee
   Alderman Childs moved, seconded by Alderman Barnes to reappoint Clay Fairley
and Theresa Huggins to the Forestry Committee. Vote of approval was unanimous.
8.   OTHER BUSINESS
   1. New Bridge Financing Commitment Letter for Rescue Squad Ambulance (item
moved to other business
   Alderman Coring moved, seconded by Alderman Powell to approve 1.95% interest
rate with New Bridge for the rescue squad ambulance with repayment option
determined by staff.
9.    EXECUTIVE SESSION – Personnel/Consultation with City Attorney on legal
matters
   Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Childs to enter closed session
to receive legal advice from the City Attorney regarding a proposed contract
pursuant to G.S. 143-318.11 (a)(3) and to discuss personnel pursuant to 143-
318.11 (a)(6). The vote of approval was unanimous.
   Regular session reconvened upon motion of Alderman Barnes, seconded by
Alderman Coring.
   Mayor Howard announced for the benefit of the press and public that the
Board received an update on personnel and discussed with the City Attorney
contract negotiations, but no action taken.
   Rescue Squad – Old Ambulance
   Alderman Poole moved to adopt a resolution authorizing the private sale of a
2002 Ford ambulance, vote unanimous.
NOTICE OF PRIVATE SALE OF CITY OWNED PROPERTY
    The Board of Aldermen has authorized the city manager to sell by private
sale the following item of surplus property:
2002 Ford E-450 VIN # 1FDXE45F32HA74503
   Any persons interested in purchasing this item may apply to the City Manager
at City Hall, 201 E. Moore Street, Southport, N. C. 28461 or may telephone
during normal business hours 910 457-7988.
                  Regina W. Alexander
                  City Clerk
RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING PRIVATE SALE
   WHEREAS, the City of Southport owns an ambulance that has become surplus for
its current needs; and
    WHEREAS, N. C. G. S. 160A-266 permits the city to sell such property by
private sale, upon authorization by the Board of Aldermen at a regular meeting
and notice to the public; and
    WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen is convened in a regular meeting;
   NOW, THEREFORE, the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport resolves
that:
   1. The Board of Aldermen authorizes the city manager to sell by private sale
the following item of surplus property:
         2002 Ford E-450 VIN # 1FDXE45F32HA74503
   2. The City Clerk shall publish a notice summarizing this resolution and no
sale may be executed pursuant to this resolution until at least 10 days after
the date that the notice is published.
    Adopted this 9th day of January 2014.
                     CITY OF SOUTHPORT
                     s/Mayor
ATTEST:
s/Regina W. Alexander, Clerk
Board Retreat – Mayor Howard requested an update on the status of other surplus
equipment to be disposed.
Bald Head Island – Mayor Howard reported that there is ongoing discussion with
Bald Head Island Ltd. concerning the riverfront erosion, which will be a topic
during the retreat.
BEMC – It was reported by Mayor Howard that the utility committee, City Manager
and himself met with Brunswick Electric Membership to discuss the five-year
plan which includes undergrounding, pole replacement and upkeep of the City’s
grid system?
Committee Assignments- Mayor Howard stated that they would be given during the
retreat.
Lord Street Gym – report will be discussed during the retreat.
Retreat Date- January 25, 2014, 8:00 a.m., Fire Department Headquarters
Open House – 1029 building open house January 28, 4:30 – 6:00 p.m.
DMV – Alderman coring suggested that DMV be contacted about moving its mobile
unit to the Old fire Station location. Alderman Barnes suggested it be moved
behind the old city Hall at 201 East Moore Street.
Adjournment- 7:28 p.m.
   Alderman Barnes moved to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Alderman Adams,
vote unanimous.
                  ________________________________
                  Mayor
Attest:
________________________________
Clerk
JANUARY 25, 2014
RETREAT MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN            RETREAT MINUTES
JANUARY 25, 2014             8:00 A.M.
FIRE DEPARTMENT HEADQUARTERS SOUTHPORT, NC
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Buddy Barnes, Nelson Adams
         Jim Powell, Todd Coring and Mary “Meezie” Childs
STAFF PRESENT:   Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
         Regina W. Alexander, MMC, NCCMC
         Jerry Dove, Chief of Police
         Cindy Brochure, Tourism & Economic Development Director
         Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
         Robert Tucker, Public Services Director
         Robert Grant, Administrative Support Specialist
         Bonnie Bray, Finance Director
         Chris May, Executive Director of COG
1.   Call to Order - 8:00 a.m.
   Mayor Howard called the meeting to order.
2.   Invocation
   Alderman Poole welcomed everyone and gave the invocation.
4.   Mayor Howard in a directive to staff requested that departmental budgets
be kept under $500,000 or reduced by 5% which may result in shifting i.e.
personnel and outsourcing.
5.   Committees (Budget)
   Alderman Childs asked that monies be appropriated in the budget to assist
committees with projects. Alderman Poole suggested that committees submit a
request with justification for funds.
6.   Resolution
– Alderman Barnes moved, seconded by Alderman Childs to adopt a resolution
Opposing Homeowner Insurance Rate Increase. Vote unanimous.
7.   Resolution
– Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Coring to approve a resolution to
send to NCDOT for financial support to assist with getting a road constructed
from the intersection of Leonard Street and Rob Gandy Boulevard in a public-
private partnership. Vote unanimous.
8.   Fire Department – Chief Charles Drew
   Discussed the feasibility of getting the fire station refinanced, acquire
land for a sub-station on 211 as originally proposed. Rivermist will be built
out in one year. Alderman Powell is negotiating with the developer to acquire
the land. Mayor Howard asked stated if the re-financing occur, to separate the
City’s loan from the fire department. Maintenance of fire hydrants were
previously contracted, but he will look into this.
Recess: 9:25 – 9:35 / Closed Session
9. Closed Session
– motion by Alderman Powell to enter closed session to discuss personnel,
seconded by Alderman Barnes, vote unanimous.
10. Public Works Department – Robert Tucker
   Mr. Tucker reported that he implemented some internal changes in his
department to become more efficient in providing services to the citizens, but
there are ongoing projects i.e. streets, wastewater, electrical system. He is
concerned about the infiltration/inflow study, which is 10 years old and a new
study is needed. The City’s service area near long Beach Road and Sunny Point
could at some point default to the county, the City needs to take an aggressive
stance concerning this issue. He also reported that load management is an
issue, the city have 1500 residential customers and 500 commercial without some
form of load management. This may need to be evaluated.
11. Occupancy Tax
– City Manager mentioned the Occupancy Tax Law on the books and asked for Board
directive concerning this issue. Alderman Barnes moved that the City Manager
schedule a meeting with local congressional representatives to consider
repealing the 2002 occupancy tax law and to operate with the 1989 law and if
this is not feasible, implement a 3% increase making the rate 5%. Vote
unanimous.
Recess – 9:58 p.m. (Board recessed for community Garden Opening)
12. Capital Project Construction
- City Manager McDuffie noted that there is only $61,000 left in this project
fund and asked the Board to establish some priorities. Alderman Powell,
Chairman of the Committee gave the following information:
Rescue Squad building renovation, $331,000
Public rest rooms, $100,000
City Hall renovation, $850,000
Elevator for City Hall, $150,000
Alderman Powell moved, seconded by Alderman Barnes, to authorize the City
Manager to seek financing proposals up to $1.5 million for the building project
to include a line of credit or permanent financing. Vote unanimous.
13. Building Inspections Office
 – City Manager McDuffie asked to use the old building inspections office to
house the building and grounds department until the Board is ready to begin
construction of the public rest rooms. Alderman Powell stated the Board does
not need to put off construction of public rest room facilities with tourist
season approaching. Mayor Howard recommended seeking space in the public
services building.
14. Lord Street Gym
- Mayor Howard reported that the preliminary report has been received on the
Lord Street Gym but the engineer did not make a recommendation. The Committee
chaired by Alderman Adams is not satisfied with the contents of the report.
Alderman Barnes asked if this project had become a city project because during
the initial discussion phase, the Board was told that the community was backing
the project with the Alumni Association helping to raise funds. Alderman Adams
stated the city should take the lead in the project because if the building is
acquired by the city, it should be a city project. Alderman Barnes stated that
he is not against the project but want to be in a position to answer questions
from citizens.
15. Closed Session / Recess
   Alderman Powell moved to go into closed session for personnel, seconded by
Alderman Barnes. Vote unanimous.
   Regular session reconvened at 12:55 p.m. upon motion of Alderman Coring,
seconded by Alderman Barnes, vote unanimous.
   Mayor Howard announced no action taken by the Board.
16. Way finding Signs
   Alderman Childs presented the location that DSI propose to install the
wayfinding signs, and asked that sign at Waterfront Park be relocated. Also
discussed was why the city seal is not placed on all signs. Cindy Brochure
stated that she will look into this and it could be because of space.
   The Board discussed other general signs in the city and concluded that all
signs should be permitted.
   Alderman Adams moved, seconded by Alderman Powell to approve the location of
the way finding signs as presented by DSI, authorize the City Manager to have
the foundation prepared for installation, and the City absorb the cost of
installation and electrical connections. Vote unanimous.
17. River Front Park Sign
   Motion by Alderman Adams to relocate the Waterfront Park sign to a more
central location along Bay Street, seconded by Alderman Powell. Vote unanimous.
18. Planning Board-Temporary Signs
   Alderman Powell moved to request that the Planning Board review temporary
signs and recommend criteria and placement, seconded by Alderman Coring. Vote
unanimous.
19. Cape Fear Council of Governments – Chris May, Executive Director
   Chris May, Executive Director facilitated a presentation on establishing
criteria on the roll and expectation of the Mayor, Board and City Manager. A
new mission statement was developed. (See Below)
Mission-Vision Exercise - City of Southport 2014
Mission Southport is/does:
Vision Southport will be:
MISSION: Southport is a _____________________that __________________
VISION: Southport will become the _______________________________
Mission Statement Adjective Descriptors
∙   Customer focus study
∙   Best value for tax dollar
∙   Clean, attractive, community
∙   Attentive, cognizant of citizens’ needs
∙   Maintain character of charming, progressive, coastal village
∙   Unity in diversity
∙   Waterfront
∙   Trees-live oaks
Natural scenic beauty
MISSION:
Southport is a diverse community proud of its natural scenic beauty committed
to providing the highest level of service to its citizen-customers for the
least amount of taxes.
VISION:
Southport will become the most desirable coastal community in the southeast and
will continue to be a “safe haven” for our citizen-customers.
City of Southport Roles and Expectations
Mayor
1.   Statutory duties defined by NCGS and the charter
2.   Moderator
3.   Authority delegated by council to mayor
4.   Leadership and communications
5.   Keep board focused
6.   Face of BOA
7.   Honesty and integrity
8.   Good listener
9.   Very accessible
10.   Respect(both ways)
Alderman
1.   Representative
2.   Robust debate vote move on
3.   Good communicator
4.   Be prepared-due diligence
5.   Accessible to public
6.   Follow chain of command
7.   Flexibility
8.   Fact before commitment
Manager
1.   Communicator
2.   Good listener-not just on action but listener
3.   Has facts and willing to make a decision
4.   Knows they can’t please everyone
5.   Integrity and honesty with BOA, staff, and citizens
6.   Good leadership skills
7.   Self assurance to make good decisions
8.   Good understanding of big picture
9.   Municipal expert
10.   Ability to deal with unexpected
20. Recycling – Waste Industry
   Alderman Barnes asked about the information provided by Waste Industries to
former Interim City Manager Gandy on the cost of recycling once per week. City
Manager McDuffie stated that the additional cost is $3.10 per household.
   Alderman Adams opposed the increase because the majority of people in his
Ward do not want an increase or the additional cost. He suggested the citizens
who want weekly recycling negotiate independently. Alderman Powell concurred.
   Alderman Adams motioned, seconded by Alderman Powell to continue with the
current re-cycling program. Vote unanimous.
21. Personnel – Public Works
   City Manager McDuffie announced to the Board that he made a decision to
restructure the Public Works Department by deleting the position of Public
Works Director. The administrative assistant will assume the role of assistant
to the City Manager and the department supervisors will report to this
position.
22. Department Directors
   Mayor Howard announced to staff that there would no tax increase and any
additional staff positions will come from within departmental budgets. He also
asked for more efficiency in departmental operations.
23. Human Resource/Personnel
   Aldermen Adams questioned why the City is requiring employees to have direct
deposit beginning March 1 and some do not have checking accounts. City Manager
McDuffie stated that it would make for a more efficient operation. Alderman
Adams suggested making it available to those employees that want it rather than
mandatory. Alderman Coring and Powell agreed.
   Mayor Howard noted that this is an administrative decision by the City
Manager.
24. Tourism
   Cindy Brochure reported that new volunteers have been added to the roster
and her goal is to create a sustainable tourism program. Visitors are up by 75%
from 2012. It is her belief that movies filmed in Southport contributed to the
increase in tourism.
25. Police Department
   Chief Dove reported that he is looking into purchasing body cameras, the
speed limit trailer is outdated because the replacement parts are almost non-
existent, they need to look into purchasing new rifles and will look for the
monies in his current budget. He also reported that the City’s radar unit would
become invalid within the next year.
26. Planning/Building Inspection/Code Enforcement/Fire Marshall
   Bob Grant, Administrative Support Specialist gave an update on the
Pedestrian and CAMA Land Use Plan. Alderman Powell asked the City Manager to
look into sweeping the 9th street road to the elementary school realizing that
this is a state road. He stated in so doing, this keep in line with Pedestrian
Plan. Mr. Grant told the Board that he has been making updates based on census
indicators.
   Wayne Strickland reported that the real estate market is improving and
Rivermist should be built out within one year. Wal-mart has a one-half million
dollar-remodeling project, his department is working on digitizing records,
revisiting the minimum housing code and fire inspections are up to date.
27. Parks and Recreation
   Heather Hemphill reported that 400 surveys were received with suggestions
for inclusion in the parks and recreation master plan. The draft is due in
February. Other projects include dredging around the City Dock, bids solicited
for bush hogging land at the former Stevens Park. City Manager asked if the
Board wanted to spend $9200 to bush hog the land with a two-year lease in
place. Alderman Adams reiterated his commitment to the baseball program in
Southport. Alderman Adams asked about a concession stand and Ms. Hemphill
reported that the Maritime Museum plans to tear down the storage facility on
Fort Johnston. She budgeted $5200 for a new storage facility, which is the only
building that will be on site.
   Alderman Coring moved to continue with the baseball fields, seconded by
Alderman Barnes. Vote unanimous.
   Alderman Poole requested an analysis of the surveys received.
28. Rescue
       Chief Johnston reported that that the new ambulance is waiting for
inspection from the State with plans for it to be in service by February. The
squad has 28 active members and 10 EMT’s y or higher-level personnel.
29. Community Building
   Ms. Potter reported that work is being done on the exterior painting and
floor buffing. She proposed to change out the bath stalls and need to purchase
table and chairs. The annex building is being rented to non-profit and paying
groups.
30. Finance
   Ms. Bray proposed to exchange the accounting software because it is 20 years
old and DOS base. She reported that the City needs to reduce the amount of
money that is paid on credit card processing for utility bills and she has
switched jobs around to improve efficiency and service and purchase orders use
has increased.
   Mayor Howard suggested when the City goes out for request for proposals
(RFP) to include the cost for credit card processing. Alderman Barnes stated
that customers should absorb the cost of credit card transactions.
   Mayor Howard noted that the general fund balance is 28% higher than required
by the Local Government Commission.
31. Board Goals and Priorities
   City Manager McDuffie stated with extra money from salaries due to
reorganization, the City would have funds to hire someone to oversee waterfront
development.
   Mayor Howard with Board’s concurrence directed the City Manager to advertise
for a part time person to draft a proposal for the waterfront including an
execution plan, and hire a consultant. Alderman Poole stated that she would
share with the Board some information collected concerning waterfront
development.
BOARD GOALS ESTABLISHED:
∙   Building Improvement (City Manager)
∙   Master Plan for Fort Johnston (Poole)
∙   Clean Community Ordinance (Poole)
∙   Seek ways to become more efficient (Howard)
∙   Placement of City seals on all vehicles (Coring)
∙   Cemeteries to provide for perpetual care by creating endowment (Poole)
∙   Continue to pave two roads per year in Northwood (Poole)
∙   Maintenance of live oak trees. Request Forestry Committee to work with
staff, Committee to inventory trees and make a listing, place monies in the
budget to assist with the project (Barnes/City Manager)
∙   Sewer lines and infiltration including undergrounding electrical (Powell)
Representatives from the City in a meeting with BEMC were told that there is
85-90% capacity use at peak time with three transformers. They are seeking
alternative means to protect citizens per chance of an outage. BEMC is looking
to back feed into City’s grid. City representatives will eventually meet with a
representative from Duke Power. (Powell/Mayor)
∙   Public Safety-identify problems with traffic and congestion i.e. speed
bumps, stop signs. (Barnes) Alderman Powell referenced a speed limit conflict
on 9th street.
ADJOURNMENT – 4:50 P.M.
   Meeting adjourned upon motion of Alderman Adams, seconded by Alderman
Barnes. Vote unanimous.
                  ____________________________________
                  Mayor
_________________________________
Clerk            
FEBRUARY 13, 2014
MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN                       MEETING MINUTES
FEBRUARY 13, 2014                       6:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS (201 E. MOORE STREET) SOUTHPORT, NC
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Buddy Barnes,    Jim Powell,
         Todd Coring and Mary “Meezie” Childs
ABSENT:      Alderman Nelson Adams
STAFF PRESENT:   Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
         Michele Windham, Deputy City Clerk
         Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
         Jerry Dove, Chief of Police
         Bonnie Bray, Finance Director
         Vickie Potter, Community Building Coordinator
         Charles Drew, Fire Chief
         B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
New part-time auxiliary police officer Anthony Bernard was sworn in by Mayor
Howard and Police Chief Jerry Dove.
1.   Call to Order - 6:13 p.m.
   Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:13 p.m. and extended
appreciation to the City’s first responders for securing the safety and well-
being of Southport’s citizens during the recent inclement weather.
2.   Invocation
   Alderman Barnes welcomed everyone and Pastor Charles Drew gave the
invocation.
3.   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Barnes led the Board in the Pledge of Allegiance.
4.   Consent Agenda
   Mayor Howard asked that Item 4b be moved to Other Business. Alderman Powell
motioned to approve the consent agenda as amended, second by Alderman Coring.
Vote unanimous; motion carried.
   a)   Review and approval of January 9 regular meeting minutes; January 25
Board retreat minutes – approved
   b)   Moved to Other Business
   c)   Committee Reports – approved
5.   Approval of Agenda
   Mayor Howard requested addition of the Building Committee Report and Budget
Amendments #21 and #22. City Manager McDuffie asked for addition of an
amendment to the Audit Agreement with Berry, Padgett & Chandler, PLLC
     Alderman Childs moved to approve the agenda as amended, second by Alderman
Barnes, vote of approval was unanimous; motion carried.
6.    Public Comments
   There were no public comments.
7.    New Business
   a)   Audit presentation by H. Menton Padgett, CPA of Berry, Padgett &
Chandler, PLLC
   Mr. Menton Padgett, CPA of Berry, Padgett and Chandler gave a presentation,
delivering a two page overview of fund totals through June 30, 2013; the
general fund ended the fiscal year with $1,633,561.00 cash on hand, $4,585,030
in revenues and $ 4,581,627 in expenditures. He reported on the electric and
water and sewer enterprise funds, tax collection, net assets and reported the
city would have no further bonded debt as of March due to the last payments for
sewer and water system having been paid. Mr. Padgett noted the city’s recording
and software systems are antiquated and recommended updating those systems to
streamline recordkeeping.
   Motion by Alderman Poole, seconded by Alderman Powell to authorize the
Finance Director to extend the audit contract from January 31, 2014 to February
14, 2014.
      Vote unanimous; motion carried.
   b)   Resolution of Support for the Southport Police Department
Alderman Childs moved, second by Alderman Barnes to adopt the Resolution of
Support for the Southport Police Department. Unanimous Vote; motion carried.
Resolution read by Mayor Howard and presented to Police Chief Dove and officers
of the Southport Police Department.
RESOLUTION OF SUPPORT
   WHEREAS, the problem of crime touch and affect all segments of our society,
while eroding the moral and economic strength of our citizens; and
   WHEREAS, we live in a world where everyone is concerned about safety, the
law and their moral existence; and
   WHEREAS, the Southport Police Department for years has dedicated itself to
keeping our citizens and residents safe, while sacrificing their own lives,
   NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board of Aldermen have the utmost
confidence in the integrity of our Chief of Police, officers and staff; and
   BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that we recognize and appreciate the valuable service
provided by the Southport Police Department and the Board of Aldermen
wholeheartedly supports our Police Department and staff.
This 13 th day of February 2014.
                  s/Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:
s/Michele Windham, Deputy City Clerk
Closed Session – 6:38 p.m.
Alderman Coring moved, second by Alderman Childs to go into closed session
pursuant to G.S.143-318.11(a)(1) to discuss confidential information under
G.S.159B-38 and also pursuant to G.S.143-318.11(a)(3) and (a)(6) to consult
with attorney and to discuss a personnel matter. Unanimous Vote; motion
carried.
Regular Session Reconvened – 7:45
Mayor Howard advised that the closed session had lasted longer than anticipated
and had been recessed to return to regular session. Alderman Childs moved,
second by Alderman Barnes to return to regular session. Unanimous Vote; motion
carried.
Recognition of City Clerk
   Mayor Howard expressed praise and gratitude for the twelve years of
exemplary, loyal service of City Clerk Regina Alexander. He paid tribute to her
understanding of all facets of city government, her wealth of knowledge, her
close relationships with multiple mayors and board members throughout her
career, and her impeccable interactions assisting the citizens of Southport. He
wished Ms. Alexander a long, happy retirement.
Former City of Southport Mayor, Ms. Sandy Spencer, spoke of her pleasure to
have worked with Ms. Alexander, their many years friendship, Ms. Alexander’s
accomplishments in her field, impeccable maintenance of city records and her
capacity to be the face of the City with a gracious smile and helping hand.
Alderman Poole read a Proclamation in recognition of Regina W. Alexander
WHEREAS, on March 11, 2002 Regina W. Alexander began her distinguished career
with the City Of Southport as City Clerk; and
WHEREAS,  Regina is a lifelong resident of Southport, who has selflessly and
graciously been an extraordinary community volunteer, focusing her life's work
on improving the quality of life for all the Citizens; and
WHEREAS, for 12 years, the citizens of Southport benefitted greatly from
Regina's service as City Clerk; additionally she served twice as Interim City
Manager; and
WHEREAS, through her tireless efforts Regina has provided faithful and
professional service to three Mayors and seven City Councils in the performance
of their duties; and
WHEREAS, Regina W. Alexander MMC, NCCMC has demonstrated her commitment to, and
knowledge of the office of City Clerk, by attaining the certification of Master
Municipal Clerk and North Carolina Certified Municipal Clerk; and
WHEREAS, Regina is an active member of the North Carolina Association of
Municipal Clerks, in cooperation with the International Institute of Municipal
Clerks, School of Government at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
and the North Carolina League of Municipalities in Raleigh.
NOW, THEREFORE, be it resolved throughout the City of Southport, on this
occasion of her well-earned retirement, and for the honor she has given to the
City and its citizens, that March 1, 2014 will be proclaimed as “Regina W.
Alexander Day” throughout the City of Southport.
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that this Proclamation and a Key to the City be bestowed
in recognition of her many outstanding contributions to the community and be
presented to Regina W. Alexander as an expression of the Board of Aldermen’s
appreciation for her dedicated service to the City of Southport, North Carolina
and its citizens.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF          /s Robert D. Howard, Mayor
   /s Mary Ellen Poole, Alderman   /s Nelson E. Adams, Alderman
   /s James F. Powell, Alderman      /s Buddy Barnes, Alderman
   /s Mary (Meezie) Childs, Alderman   /s Todd Coring, Alderman
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Coring to adopt the Proclamation in
recognition of Regina W. Alexander. Unanimous vote; motion carried
Alderman Coring read the inscription on a plaque with the key to the City while
Alderman Powell displayed a dozen red roses to be presented to Ms. Alexander
who was unable to attend.
Each Alderman expressed their personal sentiments for Ms. Alexander’s
friendship and dedicated service to the City of Southport.
Closed Session – 8:00
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Powell to return to closed session.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Regular Session Reconvened – 8:56
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to come out of closed
session. Unanimous vote; motion carried. 
Mayor Howard stated the purpose of the closed session was to meet with city
attorneys to receive information about a specific city employee, to hear a
presentation from Mr. Paul Fisher, the city’s representative with the North
Carolina Eastern Municipal Power Agency (NCEMPA), regarding the on-going
negotiations between the NCEMPA and Duke Energy over the possible sale of
nuclear power plant shares and to discuss the City Clerk position.
8.    Other Business
   a)   Filling of Clerk’s position
      Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to appoint Michele
Windham as City Clerk with duties in addition to her current responsibilities
with an increase of $10,000 annually, effective with the retirement of Ms.
Alexander.
Discussion
Mayor Howard emphasized that two positions are merging and the City Clerk will
be under the supervision of the City Manager with offices located at City Hall,
1029 N. Howe Street. Mayor Howard stated the special project Ms. Alexander had
been undertaking would be placed on hold for the immediate future.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   b)   Building Committee Report
Mayor Howard thanked Aldermen Powell and Adams for their efforts on the
Building Committee. Mayor Howard reported that as of January 22, 2014 the
retrofit of the 1029 N. Howe Street building for use by the City was $62,650,
$43,000 less than the original estimate, resulting in a $15.13 per sq. ft. cost
to prepare the building. He further stated that $9,034 was spent to purchase a
phone system, fiber optics, furniture, appliances, repair racks and $15,981 for
telecommunications for a total of $87,668.
Alderman Powell stated his focus to move forward with plans to renovate 201 E.
Moore Street, 111 E. Nash Street-headquarters of the Southport Rescue Squad,
and to build public restrooms. He requested that Aldermen Coring and Poole
present a recommendation from the Emergency Services Committee on the subject
of the Rescue Squad. He further discussed razing the former Building
Inspections office at 207 E. Nash Street in order to build public restrooms. He
indicated there is $61,000 available for use towards the projects.
Mayor Howard emphasized the priority is the waterfront restoration and
providing City Manager McDuffie with assistance towards that goal. Mayor Howard
addressed a misrepresentation regarding the projected budget for the
renovations of 201 E. Moore Street, indicating the budget is expected to be
$800 - $850,000. He stated a combined $1.5M loan will be secured for completion
of the three projects. City Manager McDuffie confirmed that he and staff are in
the process of putting out proposals for the line of credit.
Alderman Coring indicated discussion would be held during the next Emergency
Services Committee meeting regarding the needs of the Southport Rescue Squad.
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to retain the current
members of the Building Committee and authorize the committee to work with the
city manager on remaining building projects. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
City Attorney Isenberg discussed recently enacted State statutes allowing for
options to proceed with renovations to the former City Hall;
Design-Build
∙   Request for proposals/qualifications from a team of architects/contractor
∙   Interview design/build team, prioritize choices
∙   Negotiate with #1 choice and #2, #3 if needed
∙   Enter into one contract with designer & builder for entire project
∙   Not limited to awarding a contract to the low bidder; can choose best
qualified
Design, Build & Bridge Contract
∙   Hire an engineer/architect; oftentimes an employee to design 35% of
project, and then put out for bids with a design/contractor team.
Board consensus to consider the options as presented by the city attorney for
renovations of 201 E. Moore Street.
Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Childs requesting Manager McDuffie
submit a letter to the North Carolina Department of Transportation (NCDOT) to
undertake a feasibility study for adding a traffic light at the intersection of
N. Howe Street and 11th Street.  Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   c)   Clarification of charges for movies and films proposing to add $5 per
hour for use of police cars and equipment around the movie set.
Mayor Howard stated he had received comments about police vehicles idling for
hours.
Alderman Barnes pointed out that he had complained the most and he was willing
to accept a recommendation from City Manager McDuffie as long as the City did
charge for use of the vehicles.
Responding to an inquiry from Alderman Poole, Attorney Isenberg noted the
current ordinance has a provision stipulating $21.50/hr. for use of a marked
patrol vehicle.
Alderman Poole questioned the recommendation, similar to that of Wilmington,
NC, requested by Police Chief Dove through the City Manager; $25/first four (4)
hours or $50/day including fuel for eight (8) hours.
Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Poole to keep film fees for use of
city police vehicles at the existing rate, $21.50/hr. and not alter the current
ordinance.
Discussion
Mayor Howard pointed out that the charge for use of a police vehicle did not
prohibit officers from working on films without a police car.
Alderman Coring emphasized the importance of properly charging the filming
companies for use of city vehicles.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   d)   Mayor Howard expressed gratitude to Brunswick Electric Membership Corp.
(BEMC) for keeping the power on during the recent ice storms. It was Board
consensus that the city manager sends a letter of appreciation on behalf of the
citizens of Southport to Don Hughes and Nicky Nance of BEMC.
   e)   Budget Amendments # 21 & #22
Alderman Barnes moved, second by Alderman Childs to adopt budget amendments #21
& #22. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Budget Amendment #21
Fiscal Year 2013-2014
WHEREAS the City of Southport desires to relocate storage for parks and
recreation equipment in sheds located on city-owned property at the far end of
West West Street, instead of in a single, 520 square-foot structure with a
concrete foundation; and
WHEREAS governing board discretionary funds previously assigned for this
purpose with the approval of Budget Amendment #4 are no longer required; and
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2013-2014 needs to be amended to
restore the original appropriations; and
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2013-2014 shall be
amended as follows:
                           Increase/
GENERAL FUND                        Previous Amount      (Decrease)   Amended
Amount    
Appropriations
Governing Body - Contingency         $ 17,700      $ 5,200      $ 22,900
Appropriations
Parks & Recreation – Capital Outlay-Buildings      $ 5,200      ($
5,200)      $ 0.00
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, February 13,
2014
                    s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
s/Michele Windham, Deputy City Clerk
Budget Amendment #22
Fiscal Year 2013-2014
WHEREAS the Board of Aldermen for the City of Southport approved the purchase
of a new ambulance fully funded with proceeds from financing with Newbridge
Bank; and
WHEREAS loan proceeds were received and spent to purchase the ambulance in
advance of the first payment on debt service beginning July 1, 2014; and
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2013-2014 needs to be amended to
reflect the revenues and appropriations necessary to allow use of these funds;
and
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2013-2014 shall be
amended as follows:
                     Increase/
GENERAL FUND   Previous Amount      (Decrease)   Amended Amount 
Revenues
Proceeds from Financing         $ 0.00      $ 119,985   $ 119.985
Appropriations
Rescue – Capital Outlay – Vehicle      $ 0.00      $ 119,985   $ 119,985
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, February 13,
2014
                       s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
s/Michele Windham, Deputy City Clerk
9.   Board Comments
   Alderman Poole, as liaison to the Planning Board, requested City Manager
McDuffie to advertise for vacancies and those seats expiring in March. She
pointed out that those Planning Board members seeking re-appointment would need
to apply again. Interviews, of those applying, will be conducted by Aldermen
Poole and Barnes. Alderman Poole noted that applicants for an extra-territorial
jurisdiction (ETJ) seat will have to be approved by the Brunswick County
Commissioners.
   Alderman Coring reported the 4th of July Committee is in full swing. The
committee is requesting the City consider closing E. West Street from Howe
Street to Dry Street for the duration of the festival due to hazard concerns.
   Alderman Coring echoed comments by Mayor Howard regarding the tireless
response of BEMC during the ice storms. Alderman Coring praised the
availability of the volunteer fire and rescue personnel during the weather
events.
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Poole to donate $1,000 to the
4th of July Committee and to close the block of E. West Street from Howe Street
to Dry Street during the festival. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Mayor Howard directed a press release be made regarding storm debris
removal.
   With Board consensus, Mayor Howard directed City Manager McDuffie to let the
city staff know the Board appreciates them.
Adjournment- 9:42 p.m.
   Alderman Childs moved to adjourn the meeting, second by Alderman Barnes,
vote unanimous.
                  ________________________________
                  Mayor
Attest:
________________________________
Clerk
MARCH 13, 2014
MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN                       MEETING MINUTES
MARCH 13, 2014                          6:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS (201 E. MOORE STREET) SOUTHPORT, NC
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Buddy Barnes,    Jim Powell, Nelson Adams,
         Todd Coring and Mary “Meezie” Childs
STAFF PRESENT:   Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
         Michele Windham, City Clerk
         Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
         Jerry Dove, Chief of Police
         Bob Grant, Administrative Support Specialist
         B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
A)   Call to Order - 6:03 p.m.
   Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:03 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Barnes welcomed everyone and Chief of Police Jerry Dove gave the
invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Barnes led the Board in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Public Comment
Ms. Mary Friend, 306 Herring Drive, and Chairman of the Beautification
Committee, expressed her appreciation to all of the dedicated volunteers and
city crews that participated in the Saturday, March 1 This Is Our Town Clean Up
at Caviness Park. She announced the next clean-up would be Saturday, April 5,
9:00 a.m. until 12:00 noon at Keziah Park.
Mr. Gerald Donaldson, 5990 Dutchman Creek Road, commented on the Southport
Comprehensive Pedestrian Plan. (Comments included in their entirety):
The proposed Southport pedestrian plan in the second appendix defines
wayfinding or guide signage as: “Wayfinding or guide signs give notice of
traffic laws or regulations that pedestrians, cyclists, and motorists are
required by low to follow.” At B-11. However, this is not illuminating, is
largely inaccurate, and in fact, replicates the definition of Regulatory and
Warning Signs found at the start of the ensuing subsection. At B-12. Although
the Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devises (MUTCD)* indexes the following
guide sign characteristics to application on freeways and expressways, the
traffic engineering function and purpose of wayfinding or guide signs supplied
by Sec.2E.02 of the MUTCD is applicable to the function and purpose of all
wayfinding or guide signage:
Guide or Wayfinding signs __
A.   Give direction to destinations, or to streets or highway routes, at
intersections or interchanges;
B.   Furnish advance notice of the approach to intersections or interchanges;
C.   Direct road users into appropriate lanes in advance of diverging or
merging movements;
D.   Identify routes and directions on those routes;
E.   Show distances to destinations;
F.   Indicate access to general motorist services, rest, scenic, and
recreational areas; and
G.   Provide other information of value to the road user.
These crucial features of wayfinding or guide signs should supplant the lead
sentence of the section defining these terms on p. B-11.
∙   The narrative throughout the Southport pedestrian plan, as well as the map
of proposed pedestrian enhancements found at 3-4/5, does not appear to address
existing or prospective bicycle paths and currently designated or any
anticipated bicycle routes. As a result, it is difficult to determine whether
some or all of the existing bike paths and routes will be maintained or
extended by interconnection with any planned bike path project or other road
and street improvements that would facilitate bicycle traffic.
*I was a member of the National Committee on Uniform Traffic Control Devises
from 1975-2010, and over the years I helped author many sections of the current
edition of the MUTCD.
Mrs. Molla Donaldson, 5990 Dutchman Creek Road complimented the City and
Brunswick Electric Membership Corp. (BEMC) for keeping the electric service up
during the recent Winter storms.   
E)    APPROVAL OF AGENDA
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Powell motioned to approve the consent agenda, second by Alderman
Childs. Vote unanimous; motion carried.
1.   Approval of February 13, 2014 regular meeting minutes – approved
2.   Budget Amendment #23; grant for walking maps - approved
3.   Budget Amendment #24; storm debris cleanup – approved
Budget Amendment #23
Fiscal Year 2013-2014
WHEREAS the City of Southport has received and desires to accept funds from
Downtown Southport, Inc. in partnership with a grant already received from
ElectriCities of North Carolina, Inc. to create walking maps of the downtown
city core; and
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2013-2014 needs to be amended to
reflect the revenues and appropriations necessary to allow use of these funds;
and
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2013-2014 shall be
amended as follows:
GENERAL FUND                                        Previous
Amount      Increase      Amended Amount    
Revenues
Miscellaneous Tourism Revenue         $ 11,000      $ 2,000      $ 13,000
Appropriations
Tourism – Departmental Supplies         $ 23,400      $ 2,000      $ 25,400
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, March 13, 2014
s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
Budget Amendment #24
Fiscal Year 2013-2014
WHEREAS the City of Southport experienced severe weather in February 2014,
which felled tree limbs and power lines and created an abundance of debris; and
WHEREAS the most efficient way to restore public safety and electric power
after the event was to dispatch Waste Industries to undertake the necessary
tasks; and
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2013-2014 needs to be amended to
reflect the revenues and appropriations necessary to allow use of these funds;
and
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2013-2014 shall be
amended as follows:
 GENERAL FUND                                        Previous
Amount      Increase      Amended
Amount                                                                                 Revenues
Fund Balance Appropriation            $ --0--      $ 2,500      $ 2,500
Appropriations
Solid Waste – Contract Services         $ 180,000      $ 2,500      $ 182,500
ELECTRIC FUND            Previous Amount      Increase      Amended Amount
Revenues
Fund Balance Appropriation            $ 7,200      $ 4,500      $ 11.700
Appropriations
Contract Services            $ --0--         $ 4,500      $ 4,500
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, March 13, 2014
s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor   
s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
AGENDA
Mayor Howard requested Item #8 of the Agenda be deferred to the April regular
meeting. Alderman Barnes reported the Community Center Rate Report was for
informational purposes only and no action is requested.
Alderman Barnes moved to approve the agenda as amended, second by Alderman
Poole, vote of approval was unanimous; motion carried.
4.   Public Hearing; Rezoning in 1400 Block of N. Howe Street, PIN 221MA00109,
submitted by Brian Quinn
Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to go into Public Hearing.
Unanimous vote, motion carried.
Mr. Bob Grant explained that the zoning reclassification is for a one acre
parcel, #221MA00109, formerly part of the original Cades Cove Planned Unit
Development (PUD). Additionally, Mr. Grant noted the zoning reclassification
would be consistent with a 2012 large scale rezoning of N. Howe Street. Mr.
Grant reported the Planning Board reviewed the request, found it consistent
with the CAMA Core Land Use Plan and they recommended the zoning
reclassification to the Board of Aldermen.
There were no public comments.
Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Coring to go out of Public
Hearing. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
5.   Board Action; Rezoning in 1400 Block of N. Howe Street, PIN 221MA00109,
submitted by Brian Quinn
Alderman Barnes, liaison to the Planning Board, stated the Planning Board had
reviewed the request and he motioned to approve the Resolution Granting the
Application for Zoning Map Amendment. Second by Alderman Poole, vote of
approval was unanimous; motion carried.
RESOLUTION GRANTING APPLICATION FOR ZONING MAP AMENDMENT
   THAT WHEREAS, the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance, other
land use ordinances and a zoning map that control land development within both
the City’s incorporated areas and within its extraterritorial area; and
   WHEREAS, in order to promote the public health, safety and general welfare
and to promote the best interest of the city and community, it is necessary for
the City Board of Aldermen from time to time to consider appropriate revisions,
modifications and additions to the city’s zoning map; and
   WHEREAS, Mr. Brian Quinn has filed an application for a zoning map amendment
requesting that tax parcel 221MA00109, consisting of one acre, be rezoned from
PUD to Business District; and
   WHEREAS, the Planning Board has thoroughly considered this matter and has
recommended that the application for this zoning map amendment be granted; and
   WHEREAS, pursuant to N. C. General Statutes and city ordinances, a public
hearing, properly noticed , was held on March 13, 2014, before the Board of
Aldermen regarding this issue; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen hereby finds that the application for zoning
map amendment filed by Mr. Quinn requesting that the above-referenced parcel be
rezoned from PUD to Business District consistent with the Southport CAMA Core
Land Use Plan; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that the granting of this
application is reasonable and in the public interest in that (i) the tract in
question is no longer a part of the original PUD designated as Cades Cove and
accordingly, the continuing designation of PUD is no longer appropriate for
this parcel (ii) the requesting rezoning is reasonable in that the majority of
the parcels surrounding the parcel in question are zoned Business District;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that the
application for the zoning map amendment filed by Mr. Brian Quinn is hereby
granted.
      This 13th day of March, 2014.
                     City of Southport
                     s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
ATTEST: s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
6.   Public Hearing; City of Southport Comprehensive Pedestrian Transportation
Plan
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Childs to go into Public Hearing.
Vote unanimous; motion carried.
Mr. Grant expressed his appreciation to the Planning Board, Board of Aldermen,
Traffic & Transportation Committee, consultants Kimley-Horn and the public for
their efforts preparing the Southport Comprehensive Pedestrian Transportation
Plan. Mr. Grant introduced Allison Fluitt of Kimley-Horn.
Ms. Fluitt, P.E., AICP spoke to the Board outlining the 12 month process with
participation and feedback from a project advisory committee, city staff,
elected officials, members of the public and the North Carolina Department of
Transportation (NCDOT) to complete a comprehensive pedestrian transportation
plan. Ms. Fluitt noted that the plan had gained approval from the NCDOT
Division of Bicycle and Pedestrian Transportation.
Ms. Carolyn Pryor, 5950 Dutchman Creek Road, spoke about her involvement with
the Brunswick Senior Resources, Inc. and discussions regarding safe access to
shopping, bicycle and golf cart paths and the Greenway aspect of the Pedestrian
Plan. She talked about the opportunity for the City to alleviate negative views
property owners along the greenway may have. She encouraged getting the
community behind the Greenway.
Ms. Molla Donaldson, 5990 Dutchman Creek Road, spoke in support of the Greenway
aspect of the Pedestrian Plan, pointing out the biodiversity of the Southport
area and her belief that a greenway would attract visitors and future
residents.
Mr. Jason Oliver, 613 E. Leonard Street, spoke in support of the Pedestrian
Plan. He encouraged the City to embrace the Plan as it would greatly enhance
the community, get people out of their homes and improve safety.
Alderman Adams moved, second by Alderman Barnes to go out of Public Hearing.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Discussion
Mayor Howard expressed his support of the plan stating it would set the tone
for moving forward. He thanked the staff, consultant and all involved in the
development of the plan.
7.   Board Action; City of Southport Comprehensive Pedestrian Transportation
Plan
Alderman Barnes moved to adopt the City of Southport Comprehensive Pedestrian
Transportation Plan, second by Alderman Coring, vote of approval was unanimous;
motion carried.
8.   Recognition of Beverly Blake – Item deferred to April meeting
9.   Brunswick County Update on Sales Tax Referendum
Mayor Howard recognized Brunswick County Commissioners Mr. Phil Norris and Mr.
Scott Phillips in the audience. Mayor Howard introduced Ms. Ann B. Hardy,
County Manager.
Ms. Hardy introduced Ms. Amanda Hutcheson, Brunswick County Public Information
Officer and they gave a PowerPoint presentation detailing the May 6, 2014 Sales
Tax Referendum.
Commissioner Norris stated his support for the Referendum to raise much needed
funding with all residents and visitor alike sharing in the cost, in lieu of
raising property taxes.
Mayor Howard pointed out that some communities have adopted resolutions in
support of the Referendum.
Alderman Adams cautioned against adopting a resolution and suggested further
consideration of the issue.
Alderman Barnes stated he favored support of the Referendum emphasizing the
lesser impact of a sales tax over a property tax increase. He also shared
Alderman Adams opinion that more input is needed prior to adoption of a
resolution.
Mayor Howard stated his opinion he would rather pay for goods and services than
have property taxes increase. He encouraged members of the Board and the public
to give serious consideration to the Referendum. He requested the Sales Tax
Referendum be put on the April agenda for further consideration.
Recess – 7:00
Regular Session Reconvened – 7:09
Mayor Howard addressed comments to recent negative publicity regarding the
Board’s support of the filming industry. He pointed out the Board has fully
supported filming in Southport and has been as accommodating as possible while
no policy or ordinance changes have been made for over the past 14 years.
Additionally, he voiced support for Southport’s first responders while noting
that when City assets are used during filming, a fee will be charged. Mayor
Howard, with Board consensus, ordered the City Manager to address any need for
filming fee policies or ordinance revisions.
10.   Community Center Rates
Alderman Barnes reported the Rate Review Committee had met and are recommending
a revised fee schedule for the Community Building to be effective for the 2015
scheduling calendar. He indicated the proposed revisions to the fee schedule
included the elimination of the $150 kitchen fee and an increase in the non-
Southport resident hourly rental rate. He discussed the practice, by some
Southport taxpaying property owners, of subletting their $50 per hour/once a
year to non-Southport residents. He emphasized the need for a policy to
restrict that practice.
Alderman Childs talked about her experience on the original building committee,
the donation received from local and out of town contributors and the intention
for the Community Building to be self-sustaining. She discussed the need for
light fixture replacement and the associated cost ($4,000) and proceeding with
Phase II of the building expansion.
Mayor Howard questioned the price for light fixture replacement. He pointed out
the Board had previously discussed establishing the Community Building as an
Enterprise Fund to make it self-sustaining. He ordered consideration for
establishing an Enterprise Fund for the Community Building be placed on the
April agenda.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
11.   Emergency Services Committee
Alderman Poole provided Board members with draft meeting minutes of the
Emergency Services Committee meeting held February 26, 2014 (report included in
its entirety);
The meeting of the Emergency Services Committee was held on 26 February 2014 at
1600 hours at the Southport Fire Department.
The primary purpose of the meeting, as requested by Mayor Howard, was to
revisit the major repair of the Rescue Squad Building for feasibility.
The meeting was called to order by Alderman Poole, Attendees were Alderman Todd
Coring, City Manager Kerry McDuffie, Fire Chief Charles Drew, Rescue Chief
Tyler Johnson and Asst. Chief Brandon Gray and Police Chief Jerry Dove.
The topic of the meeting was brainstormed by the group. Options discussed
included the use of the Public Works location for a Rescue Squad Building.
After detailed discussion, the committee agreed unanimously to recommend to the
Board to delay remodeling of the current building and pursue building a Public
Safety Building in the RiverMist area. The building would house the Rescue
Squad and one bay would be needed for the option of Fire Department use and an
office for the police Department (approx. 200 sq. ft.). It was acknowledged
that it was not acceptable to wait beyond two years to begin action.
The benefits for the new location were identified as:
-   Reduction of response time
-   Going into Southport is quicker than going out
-   Moves the building out of the potential flooding area during hurricanes and
storms
-   More centrally located as Walmart is identified as the central landmark of
calls
-   Growth in Rivermist area
-   Ancillary benefits to Fire Department and Police Department
It was agreed that purchase of new appliances would not be placed on hold, and
that appliances could be moved to a new structure when/if needed.
If approved the Committee would like to be a part of the blueprint design.
The committee requests that this Committee be continued by Mayor Howard and it
is recognized that it has been instrumental in the cohesiveness of all
emergency services working together. Plans for the future were identified as
review of emergency processes and plans and monuments in old Fire Dept. area.
Chief Dove identified that he would be requesting during budget time the
request to replace the Water Rescue Truck with a Tahoe to be issued out as
equipment.
Submitted in draft by Mary Ellen Poole
Alderman Poole stated the topic of establishing a public safety building in the
Rivermist Subdivision was discussed in depth. The Committee concluded that the
need for a station to house the Rescue Squad, a bay for the Fire Department and
space for a Police Department office should be pursued within two (2) years.
The Committee cited the growth in the Rivermist area, a reduction in response
time, and the central location as aspects meriting consideration of the
station.
Alderman Poole identified additional projects the Committee would like to
pursue; i.e., emergency processes and plans and monuments for the former site
of the fire department to recognize the history of the area.
Alderman Coring, member of the Emergency Services Committee, pointed out that
Fire Chief Charles Drew also attended the Committee meeting and supported the
recommendation.
Alderman Coring stated the Committee studied the condition of the current
rescue squad location, location of calls responding to, and response time. He
pointed out that the Fire Department response time shortened after relocation
to the N. Howe Street location.
Mayor Howard asked how the proposed relocation of the Rescue Squad would affect
their response time into the main area of Southport. Aldermen Coring stated he
did not foresee an increase in response as, according to Rescue Chief Johnson,
the ambulance is often out of the station when taking calls. Additionally, the
Rescue Station is staffed at all times so personnel do not have to travel to
the station prior to responding to an incident as is the practice for the
volunteer fire department.
Mayor Howard noted this was the first instance the Board had heard the
recommendation and he suggested each Committee member submit a report to the
Board of discussion during the April meeting. He emphasized the need for
multiple opportunities for public input.
Alderman Barnes asked how the Committee concluded a station in Rivermist would
be more economical to build than to renovate the current rescue station. He
emphasized the squad has a four (4) minute response time and questioned that
time remaining if responding from Rivermist. Alderman Coring reported the
estimate to bring the existing station up to code was $ 330,000. An option to
the major renovation would be construction of a new station at Rivermist as
originally recommended by former Fire Chief Greg Cumbee.
Alderman Adams critiqued the proposal by contending that Brunswick County EMS
should be responding to the Rivermist area and the Southport Rescue Squad
should be move centrally located to the core of the community, similar to the
Fire Department’s centralized location.
Mayor Howard noted the Emergency Services Committee is looking at long term
options for the City’s public safety needs.
Board consensus to put continued discussion and consideration of the issue on
the April agenda and to provide opportunities for public input. The Mayor
pointed out there are two (2) recommendations; 1. Build a new facility in lieu
of renovating the existing rescue headquarters. 2. Determine the location of a
new facility.
12.   Closed Session; Personnel – 7:41
Alderman Adams moved, second by Alderman Poole to go into closed session
pursuant to G.S.143-318.11(a)(6) to discuss a personnel matter. Unanimous Vote;
motion carried.
Regular Session Reconvened – 8:14
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to come out of closed
session. Unanimous vote; motion carried. 
Mayor Howard stated the purpose of the closed session was to discuss a
personnel situation and to review the City Manager’s performance to date.
Alderman Powell moved, second by Alderman Barnes to increase the City Manager’s
salary to $85,000 annually. Vote of approval unanimous; motion carried.
City Manager McDuffie reported he is preparing Requests for Proposals (RFP) for
the Waterfront Restoration project and will provide them to the Board prior to
distribution.
Manager McDuffie provided the Board with a proposal to reduce costs for the
sewer system lift stations odor control, currently an annual contract of
$48,000. He stated that city staff can perform the work in-house at a cost of
$19,211 annually with an initial outlay of $6,460 for a scrubber, resulting in
an annual savings of $22,000 the first year and $28,000 each year thereafter.
BOARD COMMENTS
   Alderman Poole asked that the City Manager be tasked with examining the
recent tree trimming by Brunswick Electric Membership Corporation. (BEMC). She
stated she had received multiple calls about the severity of the cutting.
Alderman Childs stated she too had received calls. She shared pricing Mr. Clay
Fairley, Chairman of the Forestry Committee, had received for an arborist to
trim trees to BEMC specifications. Alderman Barnes stated his displeasure with
the trimming results. Alderman Adams pointed out the City has a contract with
BEMC for the trimming of tree limbs obstructing electric lines. He stressed the
importance of keeping the lines clear to avoid power outages during severe
weather.
Alderman Coring announced the Spring Cleanup would be held Friday, April 11
through Tuesday, April 15; collection site, Taylor Field at the end of East
Nash Street.
   Alderman Coring praised the response of multiple fire departments during
recent major fires.
   Alderman Coring shared his observations of the downed tree limbs in Franklin
Square Park. He suggested the trees be inspected by an arborist to ensure
safety during upcoming events; i.e., Spring Festival and 4th of July.
Adjournment- 8:32 p.m.
   Alderman Coring moved to adjourn the meeting, second by Alderman Childs,
vote unanimous.
                        ______________________________
                            Mayor
Attest: _____________________________
Clerk
APRIL 3, 2014
SPECIAL MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN                       SPECIAL MEETING
APRIL 3, 2014                           6:00 P.M.
FIRE HEADQUARTERS (1011 N. HOWE STREET) SOUTHPORT, NC 28461
 
PRESENT:   Mayor Robert D. Howard
      Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Buddy Barnes, Jim Powell, Todd Coring &
      Mary “Meezie” Childs
ABSENT:               Alderman Nelson Adams
STAFF PRESENT: Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
         Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Mayor Howard called the Special Meeting to order at 6:03 P.M.
   Alderman Childs gave the invocation and led the Board in the Pledge of
Allegiance.
AGENDA
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Childs to move item 3 to item 1
in order to accommodate visiting representatives of North Carolina Eastern
Municipal Power Agency (NCEMPA).   Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Alderman Childs motioned, second by Alderman Powell to go into Closed
Session Pursuant to G.S. 143-318.11(a) (1) to discuss confidential information
under G.S. 159B-38 and Pursuant to G.S. 143-318.11(a) (6) to discuss a
personnel matter.  Unanimous vote; motion carried.
8:37    Return to open session
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Childs to come out of closed
session. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Mayor Howard announced the Board met in Closed Session to;
      1.   Receive information from representatives of NCEMPA regarding the
potential sale of assets of the Power Agency.
      2.   To discuss personnel matters and give guidance to the City Manager.
   Mayor Howard stated the City Manager will provide a statement on behalf of
the Board to the public and press regarding the information received from
NCEMPA.
Paving
   The City Manager reported the asphalt parking lot at Waterfront Park is
getting worn and the lines of the previous parking configuration are bleeding
through. He presented a staff recommendation to fill cracks, apply a sealer
coat and restripe at the cost of $2,750 in lieu of $14,000 for resurfacing. It
is estimated the sealer will last approximately four (4) years.
   Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Coring to follow the staff
recommendation and have the Waterfront Park parking lot sealed and for the City
Manager to determine where the funding would be appropriated from and prepare a
budget amendment, if needed, for the April 10 Board meeting. Unanimous vote;
motion carried.
   Mayor Howard questioned the status of the current paving contract. The City
Manager indicated the contractor is behind schedule due to the weather but it
is anticipated paving will start within the next few weeks. City Manager
McDuffie will contact Southern Asphalt to verify the schedule and report to the
Board. Alderman Powell pointed out the preparation of E. Nash Street for
resurfacing will be very involved.
Board Comments
   Alderman Barnes announced that the Beautification Committee will be holding
a Clean Up of Keziah Park, Saturday, April 5. He praised the Committee for
their efforts to date. Alderman Poole, noting she is unable to attend the 1st
Saturday of the month clean up due to other obligations, volunteered her time
for tasks assigned by Mary Friend, Beautification Committee Chairman.
   Alderman Barnes discussed recent work on Sunday by contractors in his
neighborhood. He emphasized the need for police officers to know the ordinance
and to enforce it.
   Alderman Powell praised City Manager McDuffie on a good job.
   Alderman Poole expressed concerns that the Live Oak tree on the eastern side
of the Fort Johnston lawn appears dead. She stated she had spoken with the City
Manager about it and the tree had been fertilized. Mayor Howard suggested
timbers and posting of a Do Not Enter sign be put in place to stop driving on
the lawn. Alderman Barnes stated his opinion that the tree is dead due to
severe weather and undue stress.
   Alderman Poole reported she and Alderman Barnes will be conducting
interviews for Planning Board appointments and will have recommendations for
the Board at the April 10 meeting.
Adjournment – 8:55 p.m.
   There being no further business, Alderman Poole moved to adjourn the
meeting, second by Alderman Childs. Vote unanimous; motion carried.
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard
                        Mayor
/s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
APRIL 10, 2014
MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN                       MEETING MINUTES
APRIL 10, 2014                          6:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS (201 E. MOORE STREET) SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Buddy Barnes,    Jim Powell, Nelson Adams,
         Todd Coring and Mary “Meezie” Childs
STAFF PRESENT:   Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
         Michele Windham, City Clerk
         Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
         Jerry Dove, Chief of Police
         Bonnie Bray, Finance Director
         B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
         Charles Drew, Fire Chief
         Vickie Potter, Community Building Coordinator
         Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
A)   Call to Order - 6:00 p.m.
   Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Childs welcomed everyone and gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Childs led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Howard stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
D)   Public Comment - None
E)   Announcements
   Mr. Charles Drew, Code Enforcement Officer, announced the Spring Clean-Up
would be held Friday, April 11 through Tuesday, April 15 at Taylor Field.
Responding to an inquiry from Alderman Childs, Mr. Drew stated that there would
be no pick-up and hazardous materials would not be accepted.
   Mayor Howard announced that the City, in conjunction with ElectriCities, was
sponsoring an Energy Awareness Class on Thursday, April 17, 6:00 p.m. at the
Community Building, 223 E. Bay Street.
   Alderman Childs announced the Southport Spring Festival was being held
Easter weekend, April 18 & 19 in Franklin Square Park.
F)    APPROVAL OF AGENDA
CONSENT AGENDA
Mayor Howard requested addition of appointments to other committees to Agenda
Item #12, Appointments to Planning Board, and inclusion of a discussion
regarding a proposed city trolley.
Alderman Powell motioned to move Items 2 through 7 from the consent agenda to
the regular agenda, add items requested by Mayor Howard and approve the consent
agenda as amended, second by Alderman Childs. Vote unanimous; motion
carried.   
   Alderman Powell motioned to approve the remaining items 1, 8, 9, & 10 of the
consent agenda, second by Alderman Coring. Vote unanimous; motion carried.
o   Approval of March 13, 2014 regular meeting minutes – approved
o   Approval of March 13, 2014 closed session minutes – approved
o   Approval of February 13, 2014 closed session minutes – approved
o   Resolution in support of Earth Day April 22, 2014 - approved
o   Resolution in support of National Day of Prayer May 1, 2014 – approved
o   Proclamation in support of Spring Clean Up 2014 – approved
City of Southport
2014 Earth Day Resolution
WHEREAS, the first Earth Day was celebrated on April 22, 1970, and was founded
by the late Senator Gaylord Nelson with the goal of inspiring environmental
awareness and encouraging the conservation, protection and appreciation of our
nation’s natural resources; and
WHEREAS, it is the responsibility of each of us to safeguard the environment,
by recognizing that all human life depends upon the Earth and upon one another
for our mutual existence, well-being and development; and
WHEREAS, the steps we can take to protect and preserve our natural environment
through education, partnerships and positive actions should be encouraged; and
WHEREAS, the citizens of Southport are committed not only to the protection and
preservation of our environment, but also to the restoration of ecosystems and
habitat; and
WHEREAS, in furtherance of this objective the City of Southport supports
organizations that participate in Earth Day 2014; and
WHEREAS, the City commends all who participates in Earth Day, for their
dedication in taking a proactive role in shaping the future of our environment
and in protecting the earth’s precious natural resource;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that I, Robert D. Howard, Mayor of the City of
Southport, do hereby proclaim April 22, 2014, as EARTH DAY and urge all our
citizens to be mindful of local, state and national laws which protect our
environment and to join in efforts to preserve the beauty and wonder of the
lands, skies and water of the Earth in all its diversity.
This 10th day of April 2014.
    s/Robert D. Howard
    Mayor
s/Michele Windham
City Clerk
A RESOLUTION RECOGNIZING THE NATIONAL DAY OF PRAYER
WHEREAS, civic prayers and national days of prayer have a long and venerable
history in our constitutional republic, dating back to the First Continental
Congress in 1775; and
WHEREAS, the Declaration of Independence, our first statement as Americans of
national purpose and identity, made “the Laws of Nature and Nature’s God” the
foundation of our United States of America and asserted that people have
inalienable rights that are God-given; and
WHEREAS, the Supreme Court has affirmed the right of state legislatures to open
their sessions with prayer and the Supreme Court and the U.S. Congress
themselves begin each day with prayer; and
WHEREAS, in 1988 legislation setting aside the first Thursday of May in each
year as a National Day of Prayer was passed unanimously by both Houses of
Congress and signed by President Ronald Reagan; and
WHEREAS, the National Day of Prayer is an opportunity for Americans of all
faiths to join in united prayer to acknowledge our dependence on God, to give
thanks for blessings received, to request healing for wounds endured, and to
ask God to guide our leaders and bring wholeness to the United States and her
citizens; and
WHEREAS, it is fitting and proper to give thanks to God by observing a day of
prayer in the City of Southport when all may acknowledge our blessings and
express gratitude for them, while recognizing the needs for strengthening
religious and moral values in our State and Nation; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that I, Robert D. Howard, Mayor of the City of
Southport, and Board of Aldermen do hereby proclaim May 1, 2014 as “A DAY OF
PRAYER IN SOUTHPORT” and urge all citizens of Southport to observe the day in
ways appropriate to its importance and significance.
This 10th day of April 2014.
                     s/Robert D. Howard
                        Mayor
Attest: s/Michele Windham
      Clerk
PROCLAMATION
SOUTHPORT SPRING CLEAN UP 2014
Whereas, the City of Southport annually organizes a spring cleanup to insure
clean and beautiful streets in the City; and
Whereas, the Spring Cleanup will take place April 11-15, 2014, and encourage
local citizens, businesses, civic groups, churches, schools, families,
individuals and professional groups to participate in this effort by organizing
cleanups in their neighborhoods; and
Whereas, Southport Code Enforcement Department is collecting debris and refuse
at the Taylor Field off of East Nash Street; and
Whereas, the great natural beauty of Southport and a clean environment is a
source of pride for all citizens and attracting tourists; and
Whereas, the cleanup will increase awareness of the need for cleaner roadsides,
streets and neighborhoods, and emphasize the importance of not littering, and
encourage recycling of solid waste, and
Whereas, the 2014 spring cleanup is an annual event coordinated by the Code
Enforcement Officer, and is utilized by our residents and citizens as a service
to keep Southport clean and beautiful, and
Whereas, the “Southport Spring Cleanup” will be a part of bringing awareness to
the citizens of this Great City regarding the importance of a clean environment
to the quality of life in Southport, North Carolina.
NOW, THEREFORE, the Mayor and Board of Aldermen encourage citizens to take an
active role in making our city cleaner.
Adopted this 10th day of April 2014.
                     s/Robert D. Howard
                        Mayor
Attest: s/Michele Windham
Clerk
AGENDA
   Alderman Barnes motioned to approve Budget Amendment #25, second by Alderman
Powell. Vote unanimous; motion carried.
Budget Amendment #25
Fiscal Year 2013-2014
WHEREAS the City of Southport experienced severe weather in February 2014,
which required extensive repairs to the electric power infrastructure in order
to restore service to city residents and businesses; and
WHEREAS Brunswick Electric Membership Corporation performed this work outside
its normal contract for electric power infrastructure maintenance; and
WHEREAS, the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2013-2014 needs to be amended to
reflect the revenues and appropriations necessary to allow use of these funds;
and
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2013-2014 shall be
amended as follows:
GENERAL FUND                                        Previous
Amount      Increase      Amended Amount    
Revenues
Fund Balance Appropriation            $ 11,700      $ 24,900      $ 36,600
Appropriations
Contract Services            $ 4,500      $ 24,900      $ 29,400
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, April 10, 2014
s/Robert D. Howard, Mayor
s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to approve Budget
Amendment # 26. Unanimous vote; motion carried
Budget Amendment #26
Fiscal Year 2013-2014
WHEREAS the City of Southport has received and desires to accept a second grant
this year from the Southport Rescue Squad Auxiliary in payment of an additional
ambulance cot and related equipment; and
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2013-2014 needs to be amended to
reflect the revenues and appropriations necessary to allow use of these funds;
and
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2013-2014 shall be
amended as follows:
 GENERAL FUND                                        Previous
Amount      Increase      Amended
Amount                                                                                 Revenues
Rescue – Miscellaneous Grants         $ 9,200      $ 7,200      $ 16,400
Appropriations
Rescue – Capital Outlay – Equipment         $ 7,700      $ 7,200      $ 14,900
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, April 10, 2014
s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor   
s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Poole to approve Budget
Amendment # 27. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Budget Amendment #27
Fiscal Year 2013-2014
WHEREAS the City of Southport desires to expand its existing maintenance
program for city owned buildings and grounds; and
WHEREAS increasing the number of hours provided by part-time staff in the
cemeteries and buildings and grounds departments will achieve this goal; and
WHEREAS full-time status will make these employees eligible for fringe
benefits; and
WHEREAS the governing board has sufficient discretionary funds to assign for
this purpose;
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2013-2014 shall be
amended as follows:
                           (Decrease)
 GENERAL FUND                                        Previous
Amount      Increase/      Amended Amount
Appropriations   
Governing Body - Contingency         $ 20,600      ($ 12,100)   $ 8,500
Appropriations
Buildings & Grounds – Full-Time Employees      $ 34,100      $ 7,800      $
41,900
Buildings & Grounds – 401k            $ 1,800      $ 400      $ 2,200
Buildings & Grounds – FICA            $ 3,000      $ 600      $ 3,600
Buildings & Grounds – LGERS Retirement      $ 2,400      $ 600      $ 3,000
Buildings & Grounds – Group Health         $ 14,400      $ 2,400      $ 16,800
Buildings & Grounds – Workers’ Compensation      $ 1,500      $ 300      $
1,800   
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, April 10, 2014
s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor   
s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
Provide Sewer Odor Control In House
   City Manager McDuffie explained that city staff is recommending in house
treatment for odor control, fats, oils, grease and corrosion protection at the
city’s lift stations in lieu of contracting for the service. He pointed out the
savings to be realized; $20,000 the first year, $26,000 each year after the
first year. Additionally, he noted a one-time purchase of a scrubber for
$6,460.
Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Powell to accept staff’s
recommendation. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Appoint Gayle Jones as Deputy City Clerk
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to appoint Gayle Jones
as Deputy City Clerk. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Fire Department Mileage Reimbursement Policy
   Mayor Howard explained that Fire Department officers and the City Manager
have requested adoption of a formal policy for mileage reimbursement to
officers using their personal vehicle for fire department purposes.
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to approve the Fire
Department Mileage Reimbursement Policy. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Resolution of Appreciation
   Alderman Poole read the following Resolution:
Resolution for Municipal Clerks Week May 4 – 10, 2014
Whereas, Municipal Clerk’s week is May 4 – 10, 2014, and
Whereas, The Office of the Municipal Clerk, a time honored and vital part of
local government exists throughout the world, and
Whereas, The Office of the Municipal Clerk is the oldest among public servants,
and
Whereas, The Office of the Municipal Clerk provides the professional link
between the citizens, the local governing bodies and agencies of government at
other levels, and
Whereas, Municipal Clerks have pledged to be ever mindful of their neutrality
and impartiality, rendering equal service to all.
Whereas, the Municipal Clerk serves as the information center on functions of
local government and community.
Whereas, Michele Windham serves as City of Southport Clerk and has been
employed by the City of Southport since December 12, 2003, and
Whereas, it is most appropriate that we recognize the accomplishments of the
Office of the Municipal Clerk.
Now, Therefore, be it resolved that the Southport Board of Aldermen, recognize
the week of May 4 through May 10, 2014, as Municipal Clerks Week, and further
extend appreciation to our Municipal Clerk, Michele Windham for the vital
services performed and exemplary dedication to the City of Southport.
Dated this 10th day of April, 2014
                        s/ Robert D. Howard
Mayor
Attest: s/ Kerry McDuffie
    City Manager
   City Clerk Michele Windham was presented with the framed Resolution and a
dozen roses. Mayor Howard also recognized retired City Clerk, Regina Alexander.
Appointments to the Planning Board
   Alderman Poole reported that she, Alderman Barnes and Planning Board
Chairman Tish Hatem interviewed applicants for positions on the Planning Board
and Zoning Board of Adjustment. She stated there was a large volume of citizens
who applied to be members of the boards.
   Alderman Barnes and Poole nominated the following appointment(s)/
reappointment(s):
   Appointment(s)
   Name         Board            Position      Term
   Kay Jolliff      Planning          Full City      3-Year
   Karen Mosteller   Planning         City Alternate      3-Year
   Richard Sloan      Board of Adjustment      City Alternate      1-Year
Reappointment(s):
Dale McPherson   Planning         Full City      3-Year
* Donnie Joyner   Planning         Full ETJ      3-Year
* Tish Hatem      Planning         Full ETJ      3-Year   
*Pending approval by the Brunswick County Board of Commissioners.
Unanimous vote in favor of the nominations.
Alderman Coring nominated Ms. Deborah Burris as a member of the Parks and
Recreation Advisory Board. Unanimous vote in favor of the nomination.
Alderman Poole expressed appreciation to the volunteers, citizens and ETJ
participants for their commitment to serve on Southport Board of Aldermen
committees.
Resolution Endorsing the Negotiation of Sale of Generating Assets Owned by
NCEMPA to Duke Energy Progress, Inc.
Mayor Howard stated the Board had met April 3, 2014 in closed session with
representatives of the North Carolina Eastern Municipal Power Agency (NCEMPA)
regarding the publicized consideration of sale of assets of the Power Agency.
The Mayor pointed out that Southport is a member of the Agency along with 31
other communities and approval of the resolution provides endorsement of the
on-going negotiations.
Mayor Howard stated his hopes that the sale will leave the City free and clear
from debt and with the ability to buy electricity, sell the City’s electric
grid and do what is in the best interest of the citizens, without contractual
encumbrances.
Alderman Childs motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to approve the Resolution
Endorsing the Negotiation of Sale of Generating Assets Owned by NCEMPA to Duke
Energy Progress, Inc. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Resolution of the Southport Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport
Endorsing the Negotiation of Definitive Agreements for the Sale of Certain
Generating Assets Owned By North Carolina Eastern Municipal Power Agency to
Duke Energy Progress, Inc. and for Power Supply
WHEREAS, the City of Southport (the “Municipality”) and North Carolina Eastern
Municipal Power Agency (“Power Agency”) heretofore have entered into an Initial
Project Power Sales Agreement, as amended, and a Supplemental Power Sales
Agreement, as amended, pursuant to which, among other things, the Municipality
purchases from Power Agency and Power Agency sells to the Municipality all of
the Municipality’s All Requirements Bulk Power Supply, as such term is defined
in the Supplemental Power Sales Agreement; and
WHEREAS, a portion of the All Requirements Bulk Power Supply sold by Power
Agency to the Municipality and purchased by the Municipality from Power Agency
is derived from the Power Agency’s undivided ownership interest in the
following electric generating units jointly owned by Power Agency with Duke
Energy Progress, Inc. (“DEP”): Brunswick Units Nos. 1 and 2, Harris Unit No. 1,
Mayo Unit No. 1 and Roxboro Unit No. 4 (collectively, the “Joint Units”); and
   WHEREAS, The Southport Board of Aldermen of the Municipality (the “Governing
Body”) has been advised by representatives of Power Agency that Power Agency
has been authorized by its Board of Directors and by the Board of Commissioners
of the Power Agency to negotiate with DEP on an exclusive basis definitive
agreements pursuant to which (i) Power Agency would sell and DEP would purchase
all of Power Agency’s ownership interests in the Joint Units, and (ii) Power
Agency and DEP would enter into a full requirements power purchase agreement
pursuant to which DEP would sell and Power Agency would purchase all of the
power and energy required by Power Agency to provided full requirements power
supply services to the City of Southport and to all other members of Power
Agency (the “Proposed Transaction”); and
   WHEREAS, representatives of Power Agency also have advised the Governing
Body that if the Proposed Transaction is consummated the proceeds to be derived
from the sale of the Joint Units, when combined with other funds available to
Power Agency, may not be sufficient to pay or provide for the payment of the
principal of and premium, if any, and interest on all revenue bonds heretofore
issued by Power Agency to finance the acquisition of the Joint Units; and
   WHEREAS, representatives of Power Agency confidentially presented to the
Governing Body the confidential results of the preliminary financial analyses
of the Proposed Transaction undertaken by and at the request of Power Agency to
determine the projected effect of the Proposed Transaction on Power Agency and
its participants; and
   WHEREAS, the Governing Body, having taken into consideration the
confidential information concerning the Proposed Transaction presented to the
Governing Body by representatives of Power Agency.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Southport Board of Aldermen of the
City of Southport:
   1.   Governing Body has given due consideration to the confidential
information concerning the Proposed Transaction presented by representatives of
Power Agency at this meeting and hereby finds and determines that it is in the
best interests of the Municipality for representatives of Power Agency to
negotiate a definitive agreement with DEP concerning the Proposed Transaction.
   2.   The Governing Body hereby endorses the action of the Board of Directors
and Board of Commissioners of Power Agency authorizing representatives of Power
Agency to negotiate a definitive agreement with DEP concerning the Proposed
Transaction.
   3.   The Governing Body hereby directs the Clerk to cause to be furnished to
Power Agency, if requested, a certified copy of this resolution.
   4.   This resolution shall be become effective upon its adoption.
   ADOPTED this 10 th day of April, 2014
                     s/ Robert D. Howard
                        Mayor
ATTEST: s/ Michele Windham
      City Clerk
Community Center Rates/Policy
   City Manager McDuffie presented a Rate Review Committee and city staff
recommendation to add language to the rental contract to prohibit subleasing of
the Community Building by city residents to non-residents. Alderman Childs
motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to adopt the recommendation.
Discussion
Alderman Barnes, Chairman of the Rate Review Committee, stated his belief
adoption of the subleasing provision will establish a much needed policy,
noting that the reduced rate for Southport residents is a perk. He pointed out
that he had personally been approached twice by non-residents wishing to rent
the building at his residential rate.
Mayor Howard reported that the Community Building operating funds had been
reduced by the subleasing practice. He stated his hope that the revenue would
improve so the building could support itself.
Alderman Childs pointed out the needs of the building are significant and the
income has not been sufficient to cover expenses and maintenance of the
facility.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Alderman Childs recommended establishing a special account for the Community
Building in order for the monies collected from rentals to be used for
maintaining the building.
Alderman Childs motioned, second by Alderman Powell to establish a Reserve
Allocation Fund for the Community Building, per recommendation by the City
Manager, for budget year 2014-2015.
Discussion
Alderman Poole stated she wanted to review additional information about what a
Reserve Allocation Fund is before voting on the measure.
Alderman Barnes agreed with establishing a fund and he also wanted additional
information and time to review the information before making a decision.
Alderman Childs withdrew the motion. Alderman Powell withdrew the second to the
motion.
Alderman Childs motioned to include Consideration of Establishing a Reserve
Allocation Fund for the Community Building on the May meeting agenda. By a show
of hands, Board consensus.
Trolley
Alderman Childs, a member of the Downtown Southport Inc. (DSI) board, talked
about a proposal to operate a trolley from the Southport Marina to businesses
along Howe Street using alternate streets. She stated that members of a
committee approached businesses along the proposed route and 40 businesses
supported and pledged funding for the trolley. Alderman Childs indicated the
Southport Tourism Department had applied for an ElectriCities grant and DSI
would add matching funds. She indicated the committee had met with the Traffic
and Transportation Committee for assistance designing a route for the trolley
and a Wilmington based trolley company has proposed operating a trolley in
Southport for a fee of $125/day with ticket prices $2/day.
Authorizing Fire Chief to Sign a Letter of Agreement with Brunswick Nuclear
Plant for Southport Fire Department to Support the Emergency Plan of the
Brunswick Nuclear Plant
   Item deferred to review by the City Attorney and consideration at a future
meeting.
Resolution Expressing Opposition to Seismic Testing as Proposed in Bureau of
Ocean Energy Management (BOEM) Programmatic Environmental Impact Statement
(PEIS) Alternative A and Alternative B
   Alderman Barnes shared information he had researched concerning the harmful
and deadly effects to all marine mammals when seismic testing is utilized in
the exploration of gas under the ocean floor. He explained the testing is done
by towing an array behind a boat. The array emits a pulse of air under water
that then explodes sending dangerously high decibels through the water that can
be heard up to 5 miles from the originating site. He talked about the large
volume of information he found opposing the practice, likely number of deaths
of dolphins, whales, fish and sea turtles and changes to marine mammals
breading habits and migration. He noted that many scientific organizations are
urging the federal government to postpone permitting the practice until
additional studies is completed and alternative methods of gas exploration can
be defined. He also shared reports of beached dolphins in Louisiana after
seismic testing. He offered to share the information he had gathered.
   Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Coring to place consideration
of the Resolution Expressing Opposition to Seismic Testing on the May regular
meeting agenda. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
2014 – 2015 Budget Revenue
   City Manager McDuffie provided the Board with a Revenue Budget Multi-Year
Summary and FY 2015 Projection for their review. A Budget Workshop was
scheduled for Thursday, May 15, 6:00 p.m.at Fire Department Headquarters, 1011
N. Howe Street.
Closed Session – 7:13
   Mayor Howard stated the City had received a request from ADM to enter into a
contract to provide sewer service.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to go into closed
session pursuant to G.S. 143-318.11(a) (3) Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Regular Session Reconvened – 7:55
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Adams to come out of closed
session. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Mayor Howard reported the Board had a discussion with the city attorney
regarding clarification of the occupancy tax legislation.
   Alderman Childs motioned, second by Alderman Poole to send a resolution
regarding clarification of occupancy tax to Senator Bill Rabon and
Representative Frank Iler. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
RESOLUTION IN SUPPORT OF SENATE BILL TO CLARIFY SOUTHPORT OCCUPANCY TAX
    THAT WHEREAS, in 1989 House Bill 615 was enacted which authorized the City
of Southport to levy an occupancy tax of no more than 3%; and
   WHEREAS, in 2001 House Bill 1668 was passed which authorized the City to
levy an additional occupancy tax of 2%; and
   WHEREAS, House Bill 1668 required the City to “remit the net proceeds of the
occupancy tax to the Southport Tourism Development Authority” whether or not
the City imposed the additional 2% tax; and
   WHEREAS, the City feels as though the requirement to remit the net proceeds
to a TDA was in error and should have applied only if the City levied the
additional 2% tax; and
    WHEREAS, other towns in Brunswick County were also authorized to levy the
additional tax without having to create a TDA at all; and
   WHEREAS, Senator Rabon has been requested to sponsor a bill to clarify the
City’s occupancy tax authority; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen feels that it is in the best interests of the
City and its’ citizens and taxpayers that the attached Senate Bill be adopted;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport that it hereby expresses its’ full support for Senate Bill ___ and
hereby requests that said bill be adopted and enacted in order to clarify the
intent of said prior bills.
   Adopted this 10th day of April, 2014, by a vote of 6-0.
                  City of Southport
                  s/ Robert D. Howard                                    Mayor
ATTEST: s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
Mayor Howard reported the board discussed and considered options with the city
attorney for a request from Archer Daniels Midland (ADM) for a sewer tap. He
stated a negotiation team will be working with ADM and once an agreement is
reached, the Board will consider action in public session.
Manager McDuffie provided a draft Request for Qualifications (RFQ) for the
waterfront project. He asked that any changes or suggestions be submitted to
him within the week in order to proceed with advertising and selection of a
firm. Mayor Howard requested an update of the progress of the project be put on
subsequent monthly agenda to keep the public apprised of the efforts.
Manager McDuffie pointed out a status report of all on-going projects provided
in the agenda packet.
BOARD COMMENTS
   Alderman Barnes discussed the need to slow traffic on the newly paved
Atlantic Avenue citing complaints from numerous citizens. He suggested changing
stop sign locations. Manager McDuffie recommended the Traffic and
Transportation Committee assess the situation.
   Alderman Barnes commended the Beautification Committee for their efforts
cleaning up the City parks. He asked if a small stipend could be authorized to
provide the volunteers with beverages during the clean ups.
   Alderman Adams noted that Ms. Hemphill would soon be scheduling a Gym
Committee meeting.
   Mayor Howard asked about the spring street paving schedule. Manager McDuffie
stated the paving had been delayed due to weather but is anticipated to begin
by mid-May. Alderman Powell pointed out that pot holes would be repaired prior
to paving.
   Alderman Coring questioned the status of a proposed EMS Headquarters/Fire
Substation. Mayor Howard noted the Board would place further discussion of the
project on a future agenda when the Emergency Services Committee was ready to
make a presentation and recommendation for a duly advertised public hearing.
   Alderman Coring asked how much longer the barrier tape would remain at Bay
Street right-of-way. Alderman Barnes responded the tape could be removed when
the sod could no longer be pulled up by hand.
   Alderman Barnes talked about a large live oak on the Fort Johnston lawn that
in his opinion has died. Alderman Adams recommended obtaining another opinion
on the tree’s health. Board consensus there should be no driving on the lawn of
Fort Johnston/Southport Visitor Center to reduce stress to the remaining
trees.   
Adjournment- 8:15 p.m.
   Alderman Poole moved to adjourn the meeting, second by Alderman Childs, vote
unanimous.
                        ______________________________
                            Mayor
Attest: _____________________________
Clerk
MAY 8, 2014
MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN                       MEETING MINUTES
MAY 8, 2014                             6:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS (201 E. MOORE STREET) SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:      Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Buddy Barnes,
          Jim Powell, Nelson Adams,
         Todd Coring and Mary “Meezie” Childs
STAFF PRESENT:   Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
         Michele Windham, City Clerk
         Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
         Jerry Dove, Chief of Police
         Bonnie Bray, Finance Director
         B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
         Vickie Potter, Community Building Coordinator
         Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
         Tyler Johnson, EMS Chief
A)   Call to Order - 6:00 p.m.
   Mayor Pro Tem Poole called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
   Alderman Barnes welcomed everyone and Chief Jerry Dove gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Barnes led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Pro Tem Poole stated, “If any member of the Board knows
of any conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with
respect to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
D)   Public Comment
   Peggy Popelars read the following statement:
   Mayor Howard, Alderman, City Manager McDuffie:
I am Peggy Popelars, President of Downtown Southport. On behalf of DSI, I would
like to thank you for allowing DSI’S Southport Waterfront Market to use the Ft.
Johnston-Garrison Lawn as our venue. The setting is one of the most delightful
in Southport. DSI supports protecting the live oak trees on the lawn and as a
proactive move, the canopy of two of the trees were marked off on the grass by
the City’s Parks and Rec department and none of the vendors at the opening
Market day, yesterday, set up within that marked off space. It was not a
problem for the Market at all. I would also like to comment that DSI’s Market
vendors have not driven on the Garrison Lawn in approximately 4 years.
DSI would also like to thank you for allowing us to use Franklin Square Park as
our Spring Festival venue. As you know, the Spring Festival helps bring in
thousands of visitors and residents into the city of Easter week-end, thus
helping our merchants and restaurants to thrive. DSI supports the concept of no
vehicular traffic within the actual City parks as well as the Garrison Lawn. We
understand that there will be exceptions but we only ask that the exceptions
are consistent with all the Festivals and events that are so fortunate to use
Franklin Square Park and the Garrison Lawn.
Thank you.
   Ms. Bonnie Thomas, Prices Creek Drive shared her opinion about the
possibility of relocating the Southport Rescue Squad from the downtown area.
She spoke in favor of keeping the headquarters in the heart of Southport and
she encouraged the Board to take every idea into consideration.
E)   CONSENT AGENDA
Alderman Barnes motioned to approve the consent agenda, second by Alderman
Adams. Vote unanimous; motion carried.
o   Approval of April 3, 2014 special meeting minutes - approved
o   Approval of April 3, 2014 closed session minutes – approved
o   Approval of April 10, 2014 regular meeting minutes - approved
o   Approval of April 10, 2014 closed session minutes – approved
o   Resolution in opposition to Seismic Testing – approved
City of Southport
A RESOLUTION OF SOUTHPORT, NORTH CAROLINA OF THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN EXPRESING
OPPOSITION TO SEISMIC TESTING AS PROPOSED IN BOEM PEIS OPT A AND OPT B
WHEREAS,  seismic testing as proposed in the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management
(“BOEM”_ Programmatic Environment Impact Statement alternative A and
alternative B has the potential to harm marine life; and
WHEREAS, seismic testing as proposed in BOEM Programmatic Environmental Impact
Statement alternative A and alternative B has the potential to impact
recreational and commercial fishing; and
WHEREAS,  the City of Southport is a municipality in Brunswick County where a
major economic force is tourism related to the coastal environment; and 
WHEREAS, the City of Southport endeavors to be a good steward of the coastal
environment and its resources; and 
WHEREAS, the full impacts of seismic testing as proposed in BOEM Programmatic
Environmental Impact Statement alternative A and alternative B are not yet
fully understood by scientists, the Oil & Gas industry, or BOEM, and
WHEREAS, the City of Southport believes that more research should be done to
fully understand all impacts of seismic testing and options for mitigation of
those impacts; and
WHEREAS, the City of Southport does not believe seismic testing as currently
proposed in alternative A or alternative B of BOEM’s Programmatic Environmental
Impact Statement is the safest way to map oil & gas deposits in the mid-
Atlantic region. 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, the Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, is opposed to seismic testing as proposed in alternative A or
alternative B of BOEMS’ Programmatic Environmental Impact Statement until such
time as all testing options are evaluated and proper assurances for the
protection of marine life are established.
                     s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest: s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
AGENDA
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Powell to approve the agenda.
Vote  unanimous; motion carried.
   Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Coring to approve a resolution
supporting May 17 – 23 as National Safe Boating Week. Vote unanimous; motion
carried.
   Alderman Barnes read the Resolution into the record.
A RESOLUTION IN SUPPORT OF NATIONAL SAFE BOATING WEEK
Whereas, recreational boating is fun and enjoyable, and we are fortunate that
we have sufficient resources to accommodate the wide variety of pleasure
boating demands. However, our waterways can become crowded at times and be a
place of chaos and confusion. While being a marvelous source of recreation,
boating, to the unprepared, can be a risky sport. Not knowing or obeying the
Navigation Rules or the nautical “Rules of the Road,” drinking alcohol or
taking drugs while operating a boat, or choosing not to wear your life jacket
when doing so is clearly NOT the smart thing to do, are all examples of human
error or a lack of proper judgment. One particular behavior that can reduce the
number of boaters who lose their lives by drowning each year by is the wearing
of a life jacket. It is a simple task that has the potential to reduce terrible
loss in lives.
Whereas, knowledge and skills are important in reducing human error and
improving judgment. If people are aware of the risk, they are likely to take
the precautionary measures to protect themselves and their friends and family.
That is why we must continue to spread the messages of boating safety not only
during National Safe Boating Week but also throughout the entire year.
Whereas, on average, 700 people die each year in boating-related accidents in
the U.S.; approximately 71% of these are fatalities caused by drowning; and
Whereas, the vast majority of these accidents are caused by human error or poor
judgment and not by the boat, equipment, or environmental factors; and
Whereas, a significant number of boaters who lose their lives by drowning each
year would be alive today had they worn their life jackets; and
Whereas, today’s life jackets are more comfortable, more attractive, and more
wearable than styles of years past and deserve a fresh look by today’s boating
public.
Therefore, I, Robert D. Howard, do hereby support the goals of the North
American Safe Boating Campaign, the United States Coast Guard and the Coast
Guard Auxiliary and proclaim May 17 – 23, 2014, as National Safe Boating Week
and the start of the year-round effort to promote safe boating.
In Witness Thereof, I urge all those who boat to Wear It!  and practice safe
boating habits.
Adopted this the 8 th day of May, 2014.                        
                     s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest: s/Michele Windham
      Clerk
Presentation by Tyler Johnson EMS Building Needs
   Chief Tyler Johnson, Southport Rescue Squad, made a presentation of the
conditions of the 40 year old rescue squad headquarters located at 111 E. Nash
Street;
∙   Medical Supply Room is very narrow and has very limited storage space.
∙   Bathroom Ceiling has been leaking for years and a repair technician has
stated all structural members must be replaced before putting on a new roof.
∙   The bathrooms are small, not gender separated, have only one shower and the
plumbing is old.
∙   Bunk Room is very small, there is no gender separation and the carpeting
had to be removed due to flooding.
∙   Office Space; there is one very small office with minimal storage for
required equipment and documentation and there is no separate office space for
the chief or members to complete run reports or have conferences.
∙   Flooding is an issue into the bays and into carpet in the entire building
∙   There is no room separation between the kitchen, training room and day
room.
∙   The building is poorly insulated, not energy efficient, old cinder block
walls and has cast iron drainage plumbing.
∙   Bays are poorly heated with old heaters and have no air conditioning;
medications required to be kept on vehicles are not to fluctuate temperatures.
Chief Tyler indicated he had consulted with his officers and their
recommendation would be to construct a new station vs. remodeling the current
structure at an estimated cost of $300,000.
Consideration of Cades Cove Final Plat Phase III
   Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector, explained that staff recommends
approval of the Cades Cove Phase III final plat with the stipulation that the
required city official signatures not be affixed to the plat until an updated
Letter of Credit is received. Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman
Adams to approve the final plat of Cades Cove Phase III contingent upon
receiving the Letter of Credit. Vote unanimous; motion carried.
Consideration of Easement for Dosher Hospital
   City Attorney Mike Isenberg explained that Dosher Hospital has requested an
easement across city property in order to access property owned by the
hospital. Board consensus to take no action pending receipt of the easement
documentation.
Golf Carts
   Police Chief Dove recommended adoption of an ordinance to regulate the
operation of golf carts. He noticed there has been an increase in the use of
the vehicles. He pointed out that State statutes permit cities to regulate the
operation of golf carts on any public street where the speed limit is 35 mph or
less. Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Adams for staff to work with
the Transportation Committee to draft an ordinance to regulate golf carts in
the City of Southport and present the drafted ordinance to the Board of
Aldermen for consideration at the June regular meeting and for possible
implementation during the summer season.
Vote unanimous; motion carried.
Community Center Rates
   Board members voiced concerns that the Community Building has not been self-
supporting. Per a recommendation by Attorney Isenberg, Alderman Childs
motioned, second by Alderman Powell to direct staff to present a proposal for
making the community building self-sustaining. Vote Unanimous; motion carried.
Mayor Robert Howard arrived – 6:51
Refinancing Fire Department
   Manager McDuffie presented a proposal from Branch Bank & Trust Company
(BB&T) for refinancing the firestation loans, $3,027,199.00, for 17 years at
2.85%. Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Childs to proceed with re-
financing the fire station loans pending re-negotiate of the legal expenses.
Vote unanimous; motion carried.
Loans for Capital Projects
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to reject the bids.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Banking Services
   Manager McDuffie presented a staff recommendation to change banking services
from BB&T to NewBridge Bank. He cited an annual savings of $14,000 per
proposals submitted from BB&T and NewBridge Bank. Alderman Barnes motioned,
second by Alderman Poole to go with the bid from New Bridge Bank for the City’s
banking services. Vote Unanimous; motion carried.
Driving in Franklin Square Park and on Lawn of Ft. Johnston
   Manager McDuffie reported there had been driving in Franklin Square Park and
he presented a staff recommendation to install barriers. Alderman Coring
motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to put in barriers (chains & posts) and to
emphasize enforcement by city staff of no driving in Franklin Square Park and
on the lawn of Ft. Johnston.
Discussion
   Alderman Adams stressed enforcement and suggested installing barriers that
did not take away from the beauty of the park. Alderman Childs expressed dismay
that barriers are needed. Alderman Barnes recommended installation of signs in
the area behind Fort Johnston and between the Maritime Museum and the E. Moore
street tennis courts.
Vote:   Ayes:   Aldermen Coring, Barnes, Poole
   Nay:   Aldermen Childs, Powell, Adams
   Aye:   Mayor Howard
Motion carried on a 4-3 vote.
Private Business Signs on City Owned Property
   Manager McDuffie presented a staff recommendation prohibiting A-frame signs
being placed on city owned property or right-of-way. The Code Enforcement
Officer, Charles Drew, explained that there had been an increase in the signs
being placed at Fort Johnston and that off premises A-frame signs are permitted
per the sign ordinance. City Attorney Isenberg advised that the city can
prohibit signs on city owned property. Alderman Poole motioned, second by
Alderman Barnes to adopt staff’s recommendation and authorize removal of any
advertisement signs displayed at any city facility, building or property and
not allow any future placement. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Waterfront project
   Manager McDuffie reported that multiple Request for Qualifications (RFQ) for
consulting services for a comprehensive waterfront project had been received.
He indicated Alderman Childs and Poole were assisting him in the review of the
submittals and he anticipated presenting a recommendation to the Board at their
next regular meeting. Mayor Howard emphasized the need to find a company or
individual that can execute the project through construction.
2014-2015 Budget
   Ms. Bonnie Bray, Finance Director ,distributed copies of the proposed FY
2014-2015 operating budget to the Board. Alderman Powell motioned, second by
Alderman Coring to hold a budget workshop on Saturday, May 17 at 8:00 a.m. at
the Fire Station, 1011 N. Howe Street. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Closed Session 7:30
   Alderman Childs motioned, second by Alderman Powell to go into closed
session pursuant to G.S. 143-318.11(a)(3) to consult with the City Attorney and
to discuss personnel issues pursuant to G.S. 143-318.11(a)(6) Unanimous vote;
motion carried.
Regular Session Reconvened – 8:25
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Childs to come out of closed
session. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Mayor Howard reported the Board received information regarding personnel and
received advice from the city attorney about contract negotiations.
BOARD COMMENTS
   Alderman Poole distributed newly created “I Love Southport” buttons to Board
members. Mayor Howard thanked city staff and Alderman Poole for crafting the
buttons. He pointed out the buttons will be given out during the 4th of July
Naturalization ceremony and will be available for purchase for $1 at the
Southport Visitors’ Center.
   Alderman Poole noted she and Police Chief Dove will be hosting 130 school
children at the Police Department, 201 E. Moore Street on Friday, May 9.
   Alderman Barnes commended the Fire Department volunteers on the improved
landscaping at the fire station. He also extolled the efforts of the
Beautification Committee to enhance the island at the intersection of St. Rt.
87 & 211.
PURPLE HEART PROCLAMATION
WHEREAS, The Purple Heart is the oldest decoration in present use and was
initially created as The Badge of Military Merit by George Washington in 1782;
and
WHEREAS, the Purple Heart was the first American service award or decoration
made available to the common soldier and is specifically awarded to any member
of the United States Armed Services wounded or killed in combat with a declared
enemy of the United States; and
WHEREAS, the mission of the Military Order of the Purple Heart, chartered by an
act of Congress, is to foster an environment of goodwill among the combat
wounded veteran members and their families, promote patriotism, support
legislative initiatives, and most importantly, make sure we never forget; and
WHEREAS, there are several combat wounded veterans who live within our
community; and
WHEREAS, The City of Southport pledges to support those who serve their nation
through which, together, we build strong communities;
NOW, THEREFORE, I, Robert D. Howard, Mayor of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, do hereby proclaim the City of Southport as a:
“Purple Heart City in the State of North Carolina”
And encourage the citizens of the City of Southport to show their appreciation
for the sacrifices all Purple Heart recipients have made.
Adopted this the 8th day of May, 2014   
                   s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
ATTEST: s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
Adjournment- 8:32 p.m.
   Alderman Poole moved to adjourn the meeting, second by Alderman Barnes.
Vote unanimous; motion carried.
                        ______________________________
                            Mayor
Attest: _____________________________
Clerk
JUNE 12, 2014
MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN                       MEETING MINUTES
JUNE 12, 2014                           6:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS (201 E. MOORE STREET) SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Buddy Barnes, Nelson Adams,
         Todd Coring and Mary “Meezie” Childs
ABSENT:      Alderman Jim Powell
STAFF PRESENT:   Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
         Michele Windham, City Clerk
         Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
         Jerry Dove, Chief of Police
         Bonnie Bray, Finance Director
         B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
         Vickie Potter, Community Building Coordinator
         Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
         Charles Drew, Fire Chief
         Brannon Gray, EMS Assistant Chief
A)   Call to Order - 6:00 p.m.
   Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
   Alderman Barnes welcomed everyone and Chief Charles Drew gave the
invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Barnes led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Howard stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
SPECIAL RECOGNITION
Police Chief Jerry Dove recognized and honored 1st Sgt. Michael Simmons and
Officer Paul Rockenbach with a Life Saving Merit Badge;
   On the evening of May 21, 2014 at 11:02, Officer Paul Rockenbach of the
Southport Police Department responded to 211 North Lord Street concerning a
citizen having a heart attack. Upon his arrival the citizen was sitting in a
chair on the front porch and was unresponsive. The officer immediately placed
the individual on the floor and within seconds Officer Rockenbach started CPR.
Moments later 1 st Sgt. Simmons arrived and together they performed two man CPR
until the Southport Rescue Squad arrived. The two officers and members of the
rescue crew performed CPR for the next fifty minutes and the patient was
brought back to life. On this occasion the two officers exemplified the
dedication and devotion to duty of professional law enforcement officers.
   For distinguishing themselves in saving and preserving human life and
exceptional performance of duty and service to the citizens of Southport they
are awarded this day the City of Southport Police Department Life Saving Merit
Badge.
s/ Robert D. Howard               s/ J.V. Dove
Mayor, City of Southport            Southport Police Chief
D)   Public Comment
   Ms. Francesca Slaughter, 6243 Cottage Creek Road, spoke to the Board about
the use of a steel jaw trap by a wildlife agent that maimed a feral cat. Ms.
Slaughter criticized the behavior of the officer noting the trap was not tagged
nor checked every day as required by the N.C. Wildlife Resources Commission.
Ms. Slaughter spoke to the possibility a child could have been hurt and she
encouraged the Board to place a moratorium on the use of steel leg hold traps.
   Mr. Barry Amerson, 723 Skipjack Circle, spoke about controlling the feral
cat population through a trap, neuter, release method and he endorsed a ban on
the steel leg hold traps.
Ms. Lorraine Hammond, 730 Skipjack Circle, Ms. Johnna Jalot, 408 Clarendon
Avenue and Ms. Rae Keane, proprietor of Zeetlegoos Pet Store, 1635 N. Howe
Street, all spoke to the Board echoing the comments made by Ms. Slaughter and
Mr. Amerson.
Mrs. Dianne Boguskie, 502 W. Brown Street, addressed the Board on behalf of her
husband, Ed Boguskie, who had to watch the meeting on the closed-circuit
television on the first floor due to a temporary disability. Mrs. Boguskie
emphasized the need for better accessibility for those with handicaps. Mrs.
Boguskie also questioned how city money was being spent on various projects.
Mr. Stephen Simon, 6211 Pebble Shore Lane, and operator of a golf cart touring
business, spoke to the Board about the reduction in business he has experienced
with the recent ban on A-frame signs being placed on city property.
Mr. Woody Wilson, 502 Brunswick Street, read a statement on behalf of Mr. Ed
Boguskie expressing disappointment in cuts to the budget affecting the city’s
employees.
Mrs. Margeaux & Mr. Garry Deatsch, owners of Tack Pau Sha Wildlife Shelter on
Oak Island, told the Board about more humane ways to remove wildlife.
E)   Announcements
   Manager McDuffie announced that payment of utility bills on-line is
anticipated to be available by the end of the month.
   Manager McDuffie announced that City Hall would be closed 11:00 a.m. – 1:00
p.m., Wednesday, June 18 for all employees to attend a public relations class.
F)   AGENDA
Mayor Howard requested the following be added to the agenda:
∙   Consideration of a moratorium on the use of steel leg traps
Mayor Howard requested Consent Agenda items # 3, 7 & 8 be moved to the regular
agenda.
Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Poole to approve the agenda as
amended. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
CONSENT AGENDA
Alderman Barnes motioned to approve the consent agenda, second by Alderman
Poole. Vote unanimous; motion carried.
o   Approval of May 8, 2014 special meeting minutes - approved
o   Approval of May 8, 2014 closed session minutes – approved
o   Approval of May 17, 2014 Budget Workshop minutes - approved
o   Concession Agreement for NC Maritime Museum at Southport– approved
Included as Attachment #1
o   Budget Amendment # 29; Police - approved
o   Budget Amendment # 30; Tourism - approved
o   Budget Amendment # 31; Parks & Recreation - approved
o   Mutual Aid Agreement with Yaupon Beach Fire Department – approved
Included as Attachment #2
o   Petition for Contiguous Voluntary Annexation; Cardinal Builders – approved
Budget Amendment #29
Fiscal Year 2013-2014
WHEREAS the City of Southport has received and desires to accept a grant from
the North Carolina League of Municipalities to purchase four soft body armor
replacement vests; and
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2013-2014 needs to be amended to
reflect the revenues and appropriations necessary to allow use of these funds;
and
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2013-2014 shall be
amended as follows:
GENERAL FUND       Previous Amount      Increase   Amended Amount
Revenue
Police – Miscellaneous Grants       $ 2,500         $ 1,000   $ 3,500
Appropriations
Police – Uniforms & Protective Gear    $ 10,000         $ 1,000   $ 11,000
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, June 12, 2014   
      s/ Robert D. Howard
       Mayor   
s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
Budget Amendment #30
Fiscal Year 2013-2014
WHEREAS the City of Southport has received and desires to accept a Smart
Communities grant from Electricities of North Carolina, Inc., to enable the
city to participate in the “Jump Aboard the Southport Trolley” project
facilitated by Downtown Southport, Inc.; and
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2013-2014 needs to be amended to
reflect the revenues and appropriations necessary to allow use of these funds;
and
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2013-2014 shall be
amended as follows:
                           Increase/
GENERAL FUND Previous Amount      (Decrease)   Amended Amount
Revenue
Tourism - Miscellaneous Revenue   $ 13,000      $ 4,000   $ 17,000
Appropriations
Tourism – Other Services      $    0       $ 4,000   $ 4,000
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, June 12,
2014         
                  s/ Robert D. Howard
                        Mayor   
s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
Budget Amendment #31
Fiscal Year 2013-2014
WHEREAS the Board of Aldermen for the City of Southport desires to continue
development of the Ninth Street Park; and
WHEREAS the work is funded by previous appropriation to the Capital Reserve
Fund; and
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2013-2014 needs to be amended to
transfer sufficient monies back to the General Fund to contract for ballfield
preparation; and
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2013-2014 shall be
amended as follows:
GENERAL FUND       Previous Amount   Increase   Amended Amount
Revenue
Transfer from Capital Reserve        $ 18,000      $ 12,000   $ 30,000
Appropriations
Parks & Recreation – R/M Facilities    $ 44,700      $ 12,000   $ 6,700
CAPITAL RESERVE FUND       Previous Amount   Increase   Amended Amount
Revenue
Appropriated Fund Balance       $ 10,000      $ 12,000   $ 22,000
Appropriations
Interfund transfer          $ 18,000      $ 12,000   $ 30,000
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, June 12, 2014   
                  s/ Robert D. Howard
                        Mayor
s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
PETITION REQUESTING ANNEXATION
To the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport:
1.   We, the undersigned owners of real property, respectfully request that the
area described in Paragraph 2 below be annexed to the City of Southport.
2.   The area to be annexed is contiguous to the City under the provisions of
G.S. 160A-31 and the boundaries of such territory are as follows:
      See Exhibit A attached hereto. (Also known as tax parcel 22100002707)
3.   We do not declare any vested rights in the subject property and
acknowledge that failure to declare such rights on this petition shall result
in a termination of vested rights previously acquired for the property.
Name               Address
Cardinal Builders Company      1105 New Pointe Blvd., Suite 6
               Leland, NC 28451
RESOLUTION DIRECTING THE CLERK TO INVESTIGATE A PETITION RECEIVED UNDER G.S.
160A-31
WHEREAS, a petition requesting annexation of an area described in said petition
was received on June 12, 2014 by the Board of Aldermen; and
WHEREAS, G.S. 160A-31 provides that the sufficiency of the petition shall be
investigated by the City Clerk before further annexation proceedings may take
place; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport deems it advisable to
proceed in response to this request for annexation;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport that:
   The City Clerk is hereby directed to investigate the sufficiency of the
above described petition and to certify as soon as possible to the Board of
Aldermen the result of her investigation.
                     s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
REGULAR AGENDA
11.   Public Hearing; FY 2014-2015 Budget
Aldermen Childs motioned, second by Alderman Poole to go into Public Hearing.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
No one from the public spoke.
Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Poole to come out of Public
Hearing.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
12.   Waterfront Project
Manager McDuffie presented a recommendation to select Criser, Troutman and
Tanner (CTT) Consulting engineering to oversee the waterfront redevelopment
project. The firm was selected from eight (8) submittals.
Mr. Mark Accuri, Project Manager, outlined for the Board the firms vast network
of consultants they will be partnering with on the city’s project. He
emphasized the firm’s experience with public clients, applying for grants, and
engaging public involvement.
Aldermen Poole and Childs, both involved in the review process, expressed
confidence in CTT’s ability to implement and execute the redevelopment plan for
the city’s waterfront.
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Childs to select CTT from the eight
RFQs received and to enter into contract negotiations with them. By the uplift
of hands, a unanimous vote; motion carried.
13.   Set Electrical Rate for buying back solar produced electricity
   Manager McDuffie reported a Southport resident had made a request to sell
solar power back to the city. He stated the Rate Review Committee had reviewed
policies provided by Electricities, Brunswick Electric Membership Corp (BEMC)
and Duke Power and the committee recommends a rate of 6.65 cents per kilowatt
hour. Alderman Barnes pointed out a by back policy is required by state law.
Alderman Poole thanked Mr. Elle Pittenger and city staff for their assitance on
the endeavor. Board concensus to set the rate at 6.65 cents per kilowatt hour
per the recommendation of the Rate Review Committee.
14.   Acceptance of Southport Way Water, Sewer & Streets
   Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Poole to accept the water,
sewer and streets and to waive the issuance of a bond per the recommendation of
staff. By the uplift of hands, a unanimous vote; motion carried.
15.   Golf Carts Ordinance
   Manager McDuffie presented an ordinance drafted by himself, Police Chief
Dove and city attorney Mike Isenberg, for regulating golf carts. He pointed out
the ordinance would not apply to those golf carts that have been licensed by
the state as slow speed vehicles. Chief Dove noted that warnings have been
issued to quite a few carts that are not registered with the state. He added
that an officer will be assigned the responsibility for inspecting those carts
registering with the city.
   Alderman Adams stated he would not support an ordinance that required
purchase of a $50 annual registration sticker.
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Poole to adopt the ordinance
with an annual registration fee of $25.
   Ayes:   Aldermen Coring, Poole, Childs, Barnes
   Nays:   Alderman Adams
   Motion Carried 4-1 (Ordinance included as Attachment #2)
16.   Set Rates for Community Center
   Alderman Barnes presented a proposed new rate structure, recommended by the
Rate Review Committee, for rental of the Community Building that is believed
will increase rentals and get the building closer to being self-supporting. He
stated the out of town rate will remain at $500 per hour with a six hour
minimum rental; the rate for residents once a year will be $50 per hour with a
six hour minimum rental; non-profits will be able to rent the building for $150
per hour on weekends and $25 per hour Monday through Thursday. An additional
rental during the year by a resident will be at a a rate of $250 per hour.
Alderman Barnes added that the Committee also recommended establishing a deck
rental rate for rental Monday through Thursday only without access to the
building’s restrooms; $125 per hour with a four hour minimum for residents,
$150 per hour with a four hour minimum for non-residents. The committee
furthermore recommended the city manager and community building director have
the ability to negotiate rates for special events.
   Alderman Poole expressed her support for the recommendation noting that the
changes will result in a better financial situation for the operation of the
building.
   Alderman Adams supported the recommendation but questioned renting the
outside deck without access to restrooms.
   Alderman Childs motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to adopt the
recommendation of the Rate Committee and asked that a restroom rental rate be
considered and brought back during the July meeting. By the uplift of hands, a
unanimous vote; motion carried.
17.   Fire Department request to bill insurance companies for wreck calls
   Manager McDuffie presented a proposal to bill for fire department services
for those incidents covered by insurance. Chief Drew indicated the fire
department was investigating additional revenue opportunities noting that many
agencies in the county are charging for services. He added that city residents
would not be billed because they are already supporting the department through
taxes and fire fees.
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Childs to adopt the ordinance
based on the fire department request to bill insurance companies for wreck
calls. By the uplift of hands, a unanimous vote; motion carried.
RECESS: 7:13 – 7:32
   Ms. Shirley Wilson, Chairman, Friends of the Maritime Museum at Southport,
announced the Consession Agreement had been signed and she expressed thanks to
Attorney Isenberg and Bob Grant for their assistance.
18.   Request from Bonner Stiller for electrical adjustment
   Mr. Bonner Stiller, local attorney, asked the Board to reduce an unusually
high electric bill he incurred during three winter months at a small commercial
unit he owns.
   Manager McDuffie explained that city employee, Elle Pittenger, found that a
condensing unit had recently been replaced and he speculated a malfunctioning
condenser or compressor could have caused the unit to run on emergency heat
which would have resulted in an extremely high bill. He added that the city’s
new utility reading software will improve the lag time between the meter
reading and bill printed and would catch a similar situation like Mr. Stiller’s
sooner.
   Alderman Barnes noted that Mr. Stiller’s bill went back down to normal when
the weather warmed.
   Manager McDuffie stated he had met with Mr. Stiller, reviewed the bills,
looked at HVAC work done at the address, and offered to have the meter tested
at a cost of $25 - $50 to Mr. Stiller.
   Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Coring to have the meter tested
at the city’s expense. By the uplift of hands, a unanimous vote; motion
carried.
19.   Budget Amendment #28
   Manager McDuffie explained that the city has sold an old ambulance, the
check has been received and title transferred to the purchaser. The Rescue
Squad is asking for the money from the sale to be budgeted for purchase of
appliances and chairs that can be used again with the remodel/rebuild of the
station.
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Childs to adopt Budget
Amendment #28. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Budget Amendment #28
Fiscal Year 2013-2014
   WHEREAS the City of Southport has received and desires to accept payment for
a surplus 2002 Wheeled Coach E-450 ambulance in excess of budgeted revenue; and
   WHEREAS the Rescue Squad needs to update its 20-year-old kitchen appliances
and replace damaged furniture; and
   WHEREAS the amount received in excess of budgeted revenue is sufficient to
accomplish this purpose; and
   BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2013-2014 shall be
amended as follows:
                                       Increase/
GENERAL FUND               Previous Amount      (Decrease)   Amended Amount
                                                                                           
Revenue
Sale of Fixed Assets         $ 10,000      $ 5,000      $ 15,000
Appropriations
Rescue – Departmental Supplies      $ 23,600       $ 5,000      $ 28,600
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, June 12, 2014   
         s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor             
s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
Duke Power/Fire Department Agreement
   Fire Chief Drew spoke in support of the agreement for the Fire Department to
provide assistance in the event of an accident or emergency at the Duke Energy
Nuclear Plant. The city attorney pointed out that the Fire Chief has sole
responsibility for committing his department to responding to an incident at
the plant.
   Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Childs to accept the
recommendation of staff and fire department to enter into an agreement with
Duke Energy. Unanimous vote; motion carried. (Agreement included as Attachment
#3)
Duke Power/EMS Agreement
   Rescue Assistant Chief, Brannon Gray, answered questions from Alderman Adams
to the lesser amount to be paid for services from the Rescue Squad than that of
the Fire Department. Chief Gray explained that Rescue is limited to it’s
response and what they can do. Chief Tyler Johnson was not present to clarify
that he had negotiated the fee.
   Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Childs to accept the
recommendation of staff to enter into an agreement with Duke Energy. (Agreement
included as Attachment #4)
   Ayes: Alderman Barnes, Childs, Poole, Coring
      By a show of hands
   Nay:   Alderman Adams
   Motion carried on a 4-1 vote
Trap Moratorium
   Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Poole that no steel leg traps
be used in the City of Southport. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Board consensus for the attorney and staff to draft an ordinance.
Budget Ordinance – FY 2014-201
   Manager McDuffie presented the FY 2014-2015 budget with the revisions
incorporated per the May 17 budget workshop.
Alderman Coring read a statement of his comments on insurance:
∙   “I do not approve of the change of insurance at this time.
∙   Initial meeting with manager was the only information that I received and
only 1 employee meeting was held.
∙   Too many uncertainties at this point with only 1 quote and nothing to
compare with – so how do we know this is “the best” for our employees – this is
not Fremont
∙   Figures may look good on paper but reality is – these are our employees and
to me they are more than just a number, figure or dollar sign – we have some
with extensive illness and many questions and worry – they are the ones who
carry out the business of the town and without them where would we be?
∙   We have several committees that look over in detail everything from rates
to the planting of trees – so why would we not exhaust our efforts with due
deligence when it comes to something as important and sensitive as our employee
insurance.
∙   With this being said – I make a motion that we hault the insurance efforts
to look into our current insurance and options. The committee should be made up
of the City Manager, the city “HR” employee, 2 retirees, 2 employees and 1
Board member.
Alderman Adams seconded the motion.
Recess    8:15 – 8:20
Discussion
   Mayor Howard discussed the savings the city would realize by changing health
insurance plans. He stated his impression the benefits of the proposed plan are
equal to or better than the existing policy. He emphasized that everyone wants
what is best for the citizens and to make sure the employees are taken care of.
   Alderman Adams stated his opinion the proposed plan was not well
communicated to the employees. Alderman Childs and Barnes agreed. Alderman
Poole stated she reviewed the proposed plan, felt it is a good plan and agreed
more time needed to be spent trying to alleviate employees’ fear of the plan.
   Manager McDuffie apologized to the employees for not communicating more
clearly.
   Board consensus to defer the health insurance portion of the budget for
consideration during a budget work session.
   Board consensus on motion by Alderman Coring, second by Alderman Adams to
assign a committee consisting of  the City Manager, HR Officer Teresa Parker,
Fire Chief Charles Drew, Parks & Recreation Director Heather Hemphill, retirees
Bob Grant and Johnny Faulk and Alderman Poole to review health insurance
options and report back to the Board.
Closed Session - 8:39
   Alderman Childs motioned, second by Alderman Coring to go into closed
session pursuant to G.S. 143-318.11(a)(3) to consult with the City Attorney.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Regular Session Reconvened – 9:05
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Childs to come out of closed
session. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Mayor Howard reported the Board met with the city attorney to receive
information regarding contract negotiations.
Recess – 9:13 p.m. until Wednesday, June 18, 2014, 6:00 p.m.
                        /s/ Robert D. Howard
                            Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
JUNE 18, 2014
RECESSED SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN                                     RECESSED SESSION MINUTES
JUNE 18, 2014                                         6:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS, 201 E. MOORE STREET & 1011 N. HOWE SOUTHPORT, N.C.
STREET
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Mary “Meezie” Childs, Nelson Adams,
         Todd Coring, Buddy Barnes, Jim Powell
STAFF PRESENT:   Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
Michele Windham, City Clerk
Bonnie Bray, Finance Director
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 201 E. Moore Street. Due to
mechanical system failure, the meeting was recessed to the Fire Department,
1011 N. Howe Street.
Call to Order – 6:12 p.m., 1011 N. Howe Street
Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 1011 N. Howe Street.
B)   Approval of Agenda
   Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Coring to approve the agenda.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Howard stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
   AGENDA
1.   Request to Close Howe Street from Moore Street to Bay Street for Car Show
October 10 and 11
Mr. Bill Vann, president of the Cape Fear Cruisers car club, presented a
request to close S. Howe Street from Moore Street to Bay Street to hold a
classic car cruise in, 2:00 – 11:00 p.m., October 10 th and 11 th . Mr. Vann
displayed a poster of the event and stated promotion would be via Facebook and
a web page, rockabilly bands would perform from a flatbed truck, the former
service station at Howe and 9 th Streets would be made to look like a 50’s
filling station and be manned by Cruiser members in 50’s garb, vendors will
sell vintage items, staging for a 6:30 p.m. cruise will take place at Southport
Elementary, permission is being sought from the Harper family for a drive-in
theater at Taylor Field, there will be no cost to merchants for participation
and no food vendors will be included. Mr. Vann indicated he had spoken with
Police Chief Dove and no extra policemen will be necessary. Security will be
provided by The Cape Fear Cruisers.
Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Powell to allow The Classic Car
Rock-n-Roll weekend to proceed and to close Howe Street from Moore Street to
Bay Street for the event. Unanimous vote by a show of hands; motion carried.
2.   Request from D.O. T. on City stand on reducing speed limit from Hardees to
Walmart
City Manager McDuffie presented a request from Mr. George Eckart of the North
Carolina Department of Transportation (DOT) to a reduction in the speed limit
on NC 211 in the vicinity of Wal-Mart. The DOT request stems from a request
from a Southport resident to reduce the miles per hour (mph) from 45 to 35 to
allow for the travel of golf carts along that stretch of road to Wal-Mart. Mr.
McDuffie pointed out that a 2013 DOT speed study of the area did not warrant a
speed reduction.
Alderman Powell discussed the volume of truck traffic and the potential dangers
if golf carts are permitted on the roadway. Alderman Barnes agreed. Alderman
Adams talked about the traffic congestion in that area.
Board consensus to keep the 45 mph speed limit.
3.   Increase in Recycling and Yard Trash Collection
Manager McDuffie presented notification of a rate increase, effective July 1,
2014, for recycling and yard waste collection from Waste Industries:
Current recycling: $ 3.71 per resident    Effective July 1: $ 3.84
Current Yard Waste Pickup: $ 4.07 per resident    Effective July 1: $ 4.21
Manager McDuffie noted the rate increase is permitted per the amended contract
dated June 13, 2013, is due to increased labor and fuel costs and staff is
recommending passing the increase along to customers.
Mayor Howard pointed out the short notification given.
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Aldermen Childs to pass the rate increase
along to customers.
Discussion
Board members expressed displeasure at the short notification time and charged
the manager with review of the contract and inclusion of a 60 day notification
period in future contracts with Waste Industries.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
4.   Employee Health Insurance
Mr. Grant provided an overview/recommendation of the Health Insurance Committee
meeting; report included in its entirety:
   Task at Hand
Per the request of the Board of Aldermen, a Committee consisting of Alderman
Mary Ellen Poole and Alderman Todd Coring, retirees Johnny Faulk and Bob Grant,
current F/T employees Heather Hemphill and Charles Drew, City manager Kerry
McDuffie and HR Specialist Teresa Parker met Monday, June 16 at 3 PM in the
Aldermen’s Chambers to review Health Care Insurance options for the coming
fiscal year.
Alderman Poole opened the meeting and welcomed the attendees. City manager
McDuffie addressed the task at and provided the members with additional options
that might be available in lieu of the HDHP/HAS plan proposed within the
current proposed FY 14/15 budget. Committee members voiced concerns over the
potential negative impact the current HDHP/HAS Plan might have on various staff
members who are experiencing some rather serious health challenges at present.
It was noted that the proposed HDHP/HAS plan might be well suited for younger
entry level employees just entering the job market but would present different
challenges for the more mature, seasoned work force Southport presently
possesses.
As the group reviewed the various options proposed, each appeared to present
issues that would be problematic for current plan participants. Discussion then
moved to what steps might be taken to maintain the current MIT plan presently
in place and still maintain a reasonable rate while not negatively impacting
the upcoming budget. Various options were reviewed in detail by the Committee
including employee contribution, elimination of the proposed COLA for FY 14/15
and other possibilities to help offset program costs.
Committee Recommendation
In consideration of all relevant factors, it was the consensus of the Committee
that the measures to be taken to maintain the current MIT plan with the least
impact to the overall COS workforce and upcoming budget would be to forego the
proposed 1.5% COLA increase for FY 14/15. This measure coupled with the funds
the Manager had recommended that the City appropriate for the $1200 initial
contribution and the $100 monthly contribution to the individual’s proposed HAS
should bring costs substantially in line to maintain the current plan. City
Manager McDuffie calculated funding would still be short by approximately
$7,000. The Committee suggested that this shortfall could possibly be met by
sweetening revenues in certain line items (an increase of revenues related to
new construction permits might be one example) And modest cuts in line items
within the general and enterprise fund budgets.
Summary
In putting forth this recommendation, the Committee acknowledges that the
health care landscape is evolving and suggested that the group be constituted
as a standing Committee that would meet regularly throughout the course of the
next fiscal year to monitor the continuing impact of the ACA and other factors
on the health care environment while exploring options that might be considered
in the coming years (cafeteria plans, reasonable individual contributions and
educational opportunities geared to possible modification of individual
behavior pertaining to plan use to potentially lessen the claims history impact
as it relates to the City’s health care programs). In closing, the Committee
expressed their appreciation to the Board for allowing them the opportunity to
participate in this process regarding the vitally important issue.
Mayor Howard commended the committee for doing exactly what the Board tasked
them to do and the employees for foregoing a COLA to help offset the deficit
between the two plans.
Alderman Poole echoed the wish of the committee to meet regularly for further
review of health care options for coming years.
Manager McDuffie reported a meeting of employees was held and employees voted
on two options; current plan and no COLA or a HAS, results totaling 25 in favor
of keeping the current plan.
Mayor Howard acknowledged the emotional aspect of the health care issue and he
discussed the duty of the Board to consider practical and affordable health
care alternatives for city employees. He noted the annual budget expenditure
for health care is nearly $600,000.
Alderman Adams shared his opinion the proposed move to a HAS was not presented
to the employees in a timely manner. He expressed appreciation for Manager
McDuffie’s efforts and endorsed the continued review of options by the Health
Insurance Committee.
Alderman Barnes discussed the dynamics of making changes and he made a motion,
second by Alderman Powell to accept the committee’s recommendation. Alderman
Barnes added his opinion the employees are deserving of a COLA.
Discussion
Alderman Powell stated his support of the committee.
Alderman Childs pointed out there would still be a funding shortfall. Manager
McDuffie stated a budget amendment would be needed from discretionary funds.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
5.   Budget Amendment for Prepaid
Item removed from consideration per action taken on Item 4.
6.   2014-2015 Budget
Manager McDuffie presented the 2014-2015 FY budget stating there would be no
tax change; two amendments would be needed to address health care and the
increase for yard debris and recycling collection. Manager McDuffie pointed out
there had not been an increase in water rates since 2006 and the State had
increased the sales tax rate.
Responding to Alderman Barnes, the city manager advised that privilege license
fees can be collected through the 2014-2015 fiscal year; fees cannot be
increased and cannot be collected from businesses that are not physically
located in Southport.
Alderman Coring questioned a capital outlay from the Electric Fund for the
Public Services Department. The city manager explained that Brunswick Electric
Membership Corp (BEMC) has requested a new tower used for transmitting the
signal for the load management system be installed to replace the deteriorating
tower currently in use. The cost, $23,200, will include all materials and
cabling and was within $300 of the cost to refurbish an existing tower.
Ms. Bray pointed out that additional revenue of $10,000 was added to the budget
for services the Fire Department can now bill for.
The Board discussed city employees’ salary history and proposed salaries for
the 2014-2015 fiscal year. The city manager noted the proposed 1.5% COLA would
be removed from the budget because of the Board’s action on Item 4. Answering a
query by the mayor, the city manager explained salary adjustments for employees
completing probationary periods. The mayor questioned an 11% increase for a new
Finance Department employee. Ms. Bray explained the employee was promoted to
the Tax Collector position.
Other minor inconsistencies were noted in the salaries budget and Alderman
Adams recommended staff clarify the information and resubmit to the Board.
7:06 p.m.   Alderman Childs motioned, second by Alderman Poole to recess the
meeting until Thursday, June 26, 7:00 p.m. at the fire department emergency
operations center, 1011 N. Howe Street.
Further Discussion
Manager McDuffie asked for the Board’s position on addition of a South
Brunswick High School Track Club competitive pole vaulting fundraising event to
take place on Yacht Basin Street. The event would require the closure of the
street from Bay Street to Old American Fish Company in front of two privately
owned residences. Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Poole to
authorize the city manager, at his discretion, to close the street subject to
approval by the affected property owners. Unanimous vote; motion carried .
Manager McDuffie proposed shortening the operating hours of the Police
Department during winter months, October through March and keeping the hours
unchanged April through September.
Answering a concern raised by Alderman Barnes to the 11:00 p.m. scheduled shut
down of the city’s water system, Manager McDuffie apologized for the lack of
forewarning to the affected citizens of Southport. He stated the news media had
been notified, notice was posted on the city’s web page and it is anticipated
the system will be back on at 5:00 a.m. Friday, June 20. Alderman Powell noted
a system shut down is normally announced in advance via customers’ utility
bills.
Alderman Barnes suggested appointment of a committee, or directing the Planning
Board or city manager, to designate an area of the city for the operation and
advertising of tours. Board consensus for the Tourism Commission to consider
the request and report back to the Board.
Alderman Barnes asked for the status of additional public restrooms. Manager
McDuffie stated bids had been received to demolish the former Code Enforcement
office on East Nash.
Motion to recess the meeting until Thursday, June 26, 7:00 p.m., to Fire
Department Headquarters, 1011 N. Howe Street, passed with a unanimous vote.
                        /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:   /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
JUNE 26, 2014
RECESSED SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN            RECESSED SESSION MINUTES
JUNE 26, 2014                6:00 P.M.
FIRE DEPARTMENT HEADQUARTERS SOUTHPORT, N.C.
1011 N. HOWE STREET
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Mary “Meezie” Childs, Nelson Adams,
         Todd Coring, Buddy Barnes, Jim Powell
STAFF PRESENT:   Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
         Michele Windham, City Clerk
         Bonnie Bray, Finance Director
         Charles Drew, Fire Chief
A)   Call to Order
   Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
B)   Welcome & Invocation
   Alderman Powell welcomed everyone. Chief Drew gave the invocation
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Howard stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to go into closed
session pursuant to G.S. 143-318.11(a)(3) and pursuant to G.S. 143-318.11(a)(6)
to discuss a personnel matter. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Return to Open Session – 7:40
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to return to open
session. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Mayor Howard stated the Board discussed information he received from the
city attorney regarding contract negotiations and a personnel matter.
2014-2015 Budget
   Alderman Barnes commended staff on their efforts preparing the budget and
the ease of which it could be reviewed.
   Responding to a question from Mayor Howard, Manager McDuffie stated the 1.5%
COLA had been removed from the updated salaries information and the salaries
listed for June 30 is exactly what employees are currently making, along with
notations to salary changes over the past 11 months.
   Manager McDuffie suggested doing a salary/job classification and pay study
noting the last such study was conducted in 1999. He pointed out $66,100 was
allocated in the Administration budget for a study and subsequent
implementation of any recommended salary adjustments.
   Alderman Adams expressed his displeasure at hiring an outside agency to do a
study and he stated his confidence in the manager’s ability to do a fair study
for the city employees.
   Alderman Barnes recommended review of the City of Southport 2010 Personnel
Policy. Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to review the
Personnel Policy. Unanimous vote; motion carried. 
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to move $66,100 from
Administration, page 9, line item 1700 to Governing Body, page 6, line item
9700 and to label for personnel use. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Alderman Childs motioned, second by Alderman Poole to adopt the budget as
amended. By an uplift of hands a unanimous vote; motion carried.
BUDGET ORDINANCE - FISCAL YEAR 2014-2015
CITY OF SOUTHPORT
BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that, following a duly advertised public hearing, the following
annual budget ordinance is adopted to estimate revenues and make appropriations
for the financial operations of the City of Southport for the fiscal year
beginning July 1, 2014, and ending June 30, 2015.
SECTION I. GENERAL FUND
A. Anticipated Revenues. The following revenues are estimated to be available
in the General Fund for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2014, and ending June
30, 2015:
Ad Valorem and Motor Vehicle Taxes               $    1,733,100
Local Option Sales Tax                     $ 689,900
Utility Franchise, Solid Waste, and Beer & Wine Taxes         $    318,300   
ABC Store Distribution                     $    260,000
Room Occupancy Taxes                     $    78,000
Privilege and Other City Licenses               $    19,200
Refuse Collection Fees                     $    192,200
Inspection Permit and Other Code Enforcement Fees         $    167,200
Fire District Fees and Other Fire-Related Revenue         $    689,400
County Rescue Support and Other Rescue-Related Revenue      $    230,400
Police Grants and Other Police-Related Revenue         $     17,300
Recreation Programs and Other Parks-Related Revenue         $    66,200
Community Building Rentals                  $    90,000
Visitor Center and Other Tourism-Related Revenue         $    65,400
Other Revenues                        $    16,300
Community Building Annex Lease Revenue            $    15,000
1029 N. Howe Street Lease and CAM Revenue            $    88,500
Powell Bill Distribution                     $    100,000
Proceeds from Financing                     $     1,280,000
Transfers from Other Funds                  $         86,500
 
Total Revenues                        $ 6,202,900
B. Expenditures. The following amounts are hereby appropriated in the General
Fund for the expenses of the city government and its activities for the fiscal
year beginning July 1, 2014, and ending June 30, 2015:
Governing Body                        $    233,100   
Administration                        $    211,700
Finance                           $    180,300
Solid Waste                        $    186,200
Buildings and Grounds                     $    367,300
Garage                           $    175,100
Police                           $    958,100
Fire                           $    689,400
Planning & Code Enforcement                  $    320,700
Rescue                           $ 230,400
Streets                            $    209,800
Parks and Recreation                     $    383,100
Community Building                     $    135,700
Tourism                           $    189,800
Non-Departmental                        $ 1,632,200
Powell Bill                        $     100,000
 
Total Expenditures                     $ 6,202,900
SECTION II. ELECTRIC FUND
A.   Anticipated Revenues. The following revenues are estimated to be available
in the Electric Fund for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2014, and ending
June 30, 2015:
Electricity Sales                        $ 7,035,200
Utility Sales Taxes                      $ 492,500
Underground Service Installations               $ 130,000
Service Charges                        $ 90,000
Other Revenues                        $  8,800
 
Total Revenues                        $ 7,756,500
B.   Expenditures. The following amounts are hereby appropriated in the
Electric Fund for expenses for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2014, and
ending June 30, 2015:
Salaries and Benefits                     $ 352,400
Purchase of Power                        $ 5,835,600
Utility Sales Taxes                     $ 492,500
Contract Services - System Maintenance               $ 413,800
Underground Service Installations               $ 130,000
Capital Outlay – Facilities                  $ 305,400
Transfers to Other Funds                     $ 26,500
Other Expenditures                     $  200,300
 
Total Expenditures                     $ 7,756,500
SECTION III. WATER AND SEWER FUND
A.   Anticipated Revenues. The following revenues are estimated to be available
in the Water and Sewer Fund for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2014, and
ending June 30, 2015:
Water and Sewer Sales                     $ 2,677,000
Water and Sewer Tap Fees                  $   20,000
Sewer Impact Fees                     $ 100,000
Water Impact Fees                     $ 25,000
Interest earnings                        $ 1,000
 
Total Revenues                        $ 2,823,000
B.   Expenditures. The following amounts are hereby appropriated in the Water
and Sewer Fund for expenses for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2014, and
ending June 30, 2015:
Salaries and Benefits                     $ 564,500
Water Purchases                        $ 491,000
Distribution/Collection Supplies                  $    53,100
Sewer Allocation Cost                     $ 387,300
Contract Services - System Maintenance               $ 436,000
Capital Outlay – Equipment                  $ 162,500
Capital Outlay – Facilities                  $ 53,200
Debt Service                        $ 332,500
Transfers to Other Funds                     $    44,000
Other Expenditures                     $  298,900
 
Total Expenditures                     $ 2,823,000
SECTION IV. ELECTRIC FUND CAPITAL RESERVE
A.   Anticipated Revenues. The following revenues are estimated to be available
in the Electric Fund Capital Reserve for the fiscal year beginning July 1,
2014, and ending June 30, 2015:
Transfer from Electric Fund                  $ 20,000
B.   Expenditures. The following amounts are hereby appropriated in the
Electric Fund Capital Reserve for future capital equipment expenses for the
fiscal year beginning July 1, 2014, and ending June 30, 2015:
Reserve for Electric Fund Vehicles/Equipment            $ 20,000
SECTION V. WATER AND SEWER FUND CAPITAL RESERVE
A.   Anticipated Revenues. The following revenues are estimated to be available
in the Water and Sewer Fund Capital Reserve Fund for the fiscal year beginning
July 1, 2014, and ending June 30, 2015:
Transfer from Water and Sewer Fund               $ 20,000
C.   Expenditures. The following amounts are hereby appropriated in the Water
and Sewer Fund Capital Reserve for future capital equipment expenses for the
fiscal year beginning July 1, 2014, and ending June 30, 2015:
Reserve for Water and Sewer Vehicles/Equipment         $ 20,000
SECTION VI. TAX RATE
There is hereby levied, for fiscal year 2014-2015, a tax at the rate of $0.2456
on each one hundred dollars ($100) of assessed valuation of property located
within the City of Southport for the purpose of raising revenue in the General
Fund.
SECTION VII. BUDGET OFFICER AUTHORITY
The city manager (budget officer) is hereby authorized to transfer
appropriations within a fund and between funds under the following terms:
A.   He may transfer amounts between objects of expenditures (line items)
within a departmental appropriation.
B.   He may transfer amounts between appropriations within the same fund,
provided that a report of such transfers shall be made no later than the next
regular financial report to the Board of Aldermen.
C.   He may approve un-budgeted inter-fund transfers, up to $5,000, provided
that a report of such transfers shall be made no later than the next regular
financial report to the Board of Aldermen.
D.   He may transfer and/or utilize appropriations contained in contingency
appropriations within a fund (except for contingency amounts within the
governing board appropriation) or in emergency fund appropriations.
E.   He may authorize temporary transfers of cash among funds as necessary to
meet cash flow needs.
F.   He may transfer funds from capital reserve funds, up to $20,000 per
purpose, to meet current needs for the purpose for which such funds are being
held in reserve, provided that a report of such transfers shall be made no
later than the next regular financial report to the Board of Aldermen.
All other transfers of funds between appropriations or budget funds shall be
accomplished by Board amendment of this ordinance.
SECTION VIII. CONTINUING AUTHORIZATION
Previously-adopted capital project budgets, grant project budgets, and special
reserve funds are hereby re-authorized, and revenues and appropriations made
for all such funds shall remain authorized on an ongoing basis until such
projects are completed and/or all funds are utilized. At the conclusion of such
capital projects or grant projects, any residual, unexpended local funds shall
be transferred to the general government or enterprise fund with which the
project is associated.
SECTION IX. BUDGET IMPLEMENTATION
This ordinance and the supporting budget document shall be the basis of the
financial plan for the City of Southport municipal government for the 2014-2015
fiscal year. The budget officer shall administer the budget and shall insure
the finance officer and department heads of the city are provided with
sufficient guidance to properly implement this plan. Copies of the budget
ordinance shall be furnished to the city manager and the finance officer for
their use and direction in the disbursement of funds and to the city clerk for
the official records of the city.
SECTION X. ADOPTION
This ordinance has been adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in special
session on June 26, 2014, upon the motion of Alderman Childs and the second of
Alderman Poole, with a vote of          6 ayes and  0 noes, and shall be
effective July 1, 2014.
                  s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor          
Attest:
s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
Mayor Howard made a statement on behalf of the Board concerning publicized
efforts by the Oak Island Fire Department to have Brunswick County leaders re-
examine fire district boundaries. He pointed out the Southport Fire Department
has an ISO rating of 4, prudent financial management and long range plans to
accommodate the fire district. He applauded the dedicated professional all
volunteer firemen who do not take a salary to protect the lives and property of
Southport and district residents.
Mayor Howard directed the city manager to present the Tour Commission’s
recommendation for an update on an ordinance regulating tours at the Board’s
July meeting.
Alderman Powell announced the Building Committee would be meeting in the near
future.
Manager McDuffie reported a contract with CTT for the Waterfront project would
be presented to the Board for consideration at their July meeting.
Mayor Howard pointed out that the city manager has been tasked by the Board
with a multitude of projects. Mayor Howard asked the city manager to provide a
list of those projects prioritized and his recommendation for completing the
projects in-house or contracting out.
Mayor Howard directed the Clerk to include scheduling a work session on the
July Board agenda.
Alderman Barnes asked about the progress toward payment of utility bills on-
line for Southport residents. Ms. Bray reported the company that currently
mails the utility bills, Arista, is setting up an on-line function on the
city’s web page at a substantial savings to the city. She anticipated the
function would be effective for payment of July utility bills and customers
will be able to access account history. Answering a concern by Mayor Howard to
security of the function, Ms. Bray explained the compliance of high standards
that must be met of which Arista has done so.
Alderman Barnes commented about the time consuming efforts it takes to keep the
city’s web page updated. He suggested looking into ways to keep the web page
better updated and options to fully utilize the web page’s potential.
With no further business, Alderman Childs motioned, second by Alderman Poole to
adjourn the meeting at 8:23 p.m. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
                                                            /s/ Robert D.
Howard, Mayor
Attest: Michele Windham, City Clerk
JULY 10, 2014
MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN                       MEETING MINUTES
JULY 10, 2014                           6:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS (201 E. MOORE STREET) SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Buddy Barnes, Nelson Adams, Todd Coring and
Mary “Meezie” Childs
ABSENT:      Alderman Jim Powell
STAFF PRESENT:   Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
         Michele Windham, City Clerk
         Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
         Jerry Dove, Chief of Police
         B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
         Vickie Potter, Community Building Coordinator
         Charles Drew, Fire Chief
A)   Call to Order - 6:00 p.m.
   Mayor Pro Tem Poole called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
   Alderman Poole welcomed everyone and gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Poole led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
Mayor Howard arrived - 6:09 p.m.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Howard stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
D)   Public Comment
   Mr. John Bruton, 318 W. Brunswick Street, spoke to the Board about music and
noise from the Yacht Basin area disturbing him. He asked the Board to review
the Noise Ordinance and to consider revisions to it to provide the police with
tools for enforcement.
   Mr. Frederick Fox spoke to the Board about the various fees, totaling nearly
$10,000, he had to pay when building a new house at 520 Clarendon Avenue. He
expressed his displeasure that he had to pay for a new electric transformer and
he challenged the existence of an ordinance to that effect.
E)   Approval of Agenda
Mayor Howard requested the following be added to the agenda: a closed session
to discuss contract negotiations with the city attorney, discussion about the
Noise Ordinance, and consideration of the audit contract with Berry, Padgett &
Chandler, PLLC. Additionally, he asked that agenda item #6 be moved to after
item #10 and the numbering be adjusted accordingly.
Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Poole to approve the agenda as
amended. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
F)   Announcements
Honorary Citizenship
   Mayor Howard announced that an honorary citizenship was bestowed on Actress,
Mimi Kirkland, during a recent visit.
Resolution in Appreciation of 4th of July Committee
   Alderman Coring recognized members of the 4th of July Committee present. He
expressed appreciation to the committee and city staff for all efforts taken to
host the 4th of July Festival while preparing for Hurricane Arthur.
   Alderman Coring read:
Resolution of Appreciation
WHEREAS, for over 200 years the City of Southport has celebrated our nation’s
independence; and 
WHEREAS, the North Carolina 4th of July Festival was incorporated in 1972 and
the patriotic spirit is alive and well, and has established the City of
Southport as one of the most patriotic towns in the State of North Carolina;
and
WHEREAS, the 4th of July festival draws an estimated 40,000 to 50,000 people to
Southport and its surrounding communities; and
WHEREAS, the festival highlights over 150 arts and craft vendors, food vendors,
a parade, freedom run, veteran’s recognition, naturalization ceremony, children
games, firefighters’ competition, flag retirement ceremony, fireworks and more;
and
WHEREAS, the N.C. 4th of July festival could not be realized without the
Festival Board of Directors, Committees and hundreds of volunteers that work
year round to promote and organize this event.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the City of Southport recognizes and thanks
each and every individual who tirelessly gave of their time and energy to put
on one of the best 4th of July Festivals ever.
ADOPTED this the 10th day of July 2014.
                  /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
/s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
   Mayor Howard echoed Alderman Coring’s comments and praised the extraordinary
measures taken by all city staff to clear the city of any evidence of a
hurricane so the 4th of July Festivities could continue.
   Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Poole to approve the
resolution.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Resolution in Appreciation of Mary Friend
   Alderman Barnes extolled the commitment of Ms. Mary Friend to serve
unselfishly on the Beautification Committee and he read a resolution of
appreciation
RESOLUTION OF APPRECIATION
FOR THE SERVICES OF MARY FRIEND
WHEREAS, Mary Friend served on the Beautification Committee of the City of
Southport; and
WHEREAS, Mary Friend volunteered countless hours of her precious time towards
making and keeping the appearance of the City of Southport a city for all
residents to be proud of; and
WHEREAS, Mary Friend served unselfishly on the Beautification Committee and put
forth substantial effort toward the beautification of the City of Southport.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Mayor and the Board of Aldermen of the
City of Southport, North Carolina, that Mary Friend is hereby officially
commended for her valuable service rendered to the City of Southport.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that this resolution be made a part of the permanent
records of the City of Southport and that a copy of this resolution be
presented to Mary Friend.
Duly Resolved, this the 10th day of July 2014.
   /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
/s/ Gayle A. Jones, Deputy City Clerk
   Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Poole to adopt the resolution
of appreciation. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Ms. Friend, recognized those committee members and volunteers present. She
spoke of her love of landscaping and expressed her pride in all the
achievements the Committee had made.
CONSENT AGENDA
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to approve the consent
agenda. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
o   Approval of June 12, 2014 meeting minutes - approved
o   Approval of June 12, 2014 closed session minutes – approved
o   Approval of June 18, 2014 recessed meeting minutes – approved
o   Approval of June 26, 2014 recessed meeting minutes – approved
o   Approval of June 26, 2014 closed session minutes – approved
o   Approval of Final Plat Cades Cove Phase III - approved
o   Accept petition for annexation on HWY 211, 88 acres - approved
RESOLUTION DIRECTING THE CLERK TO INVESTIGATE A PETITION RECEIVED UNDER G.S.
160A-58.1
WHEREAS, a petition requesting annexation of an area described in said petition
was received on June 26, 2014 by the Board of Aldermen; and
WHEREAS, G.S. 160A-58.2 provides that the sufficiency of the petition shall be
investigated by the City Clerk before further annexation proceedings may take
place; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport deems it advisable to
proceed in response to this request for annexation;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport that:
   The City Clerk is hereby directed to investigate the sufficiency of the
above described petition and to certify as soon as possible to the Board of
Aldermen the result of her investigation.
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
REGULAR AGENDA
4.   Public Hearing; Rezoning 109 and 113 W. Moore Street
Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Childs to go into Public Hearing.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   City Manager McDuffie reported that staff had made a request to change the
zoning of the Harper Library, former visitor center and Keziah park. The
Planning Board had reviewed the request and submitted a recommendation to the
Board for a zoning reclassification of Central Business District (CBD) except
for a classification of Open Space for Keziah Park and to extend the Parking
Overlay District.
No one from the public spoke.
Alderman Childs motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to come out of Public
Hearing.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
5.   Board Action on rezoning of 109 & 113 W. Moore Street
Alderman Childs motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to approve the zoning to
CBD for 109 & 113 W. Moore Street and Open Space for Keziah Park and extend the
parking overlay district.
Discussion
Alderman Coring questioned why a Planning Board member had recused herself from
voting on the zoning request.
Alderman Poole explained that Ms. Meehan had recused herself because, if the
building became available for lease, she may be interested in leasing it.
Alderman Adams stated his opinion the zoning reclassificiation was for the
primary reason of leasing the former Visitors Center building. He stated his
opposition to leasing the building and he noted the City’s need to retain the
building for use by the Police Department during planned renovations to 201 E.
Moore Street. He stated his support for the zoning change to the park.
Mr. B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector, explained that the current zoning
creates the non-conforming uses at 109 & 113 W. Moore Street and does not allow
for inclusion of the park as open space classification in the Community Rating
System. He stated the zoning reclassification would correct that situation.
Ayes:   Aldermen Barnes, Poole, Childs
Nays:   Alderman Coring & Adams
Attorney Isenberg advised that four votes were needed to pass a zoning
reclassification as an ordinance requires a majority of the board. Motion
fails.
6.   Tour Commission recommendation of ordinance update
Manager McDuffie reported that the Tour Commission had met and provided
recommendations for addressing tour sign placement and to limit the number of
tours while continuing the current quality of tours.
Attorney Isenberg pointed out items in the current Ordinance 10-61 and options
to amend the ordinance while incorporating the recommendation of the Tour
Commission.
Alderman Barnes recommended limiting the number of each type of tour.
Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Coring to direct the City Attorney
to prepare an ordinance incorporating the amendments discussed. Unanimous vote;
motion carried.
7.   Appointments to Beautification Committee
Alderman Barnes, liaison to the Beautification Committee, made a motion, second
by Alderman Poole to re-appoint and appoint members to the Beautification
Committee:
Re-Appoint:   Marjorie Jones      Appoint:   Daphne Green
         Kathleen Jaeckel         Vicky Riley
                        Wendell Watson
Unanimous vote by an uplift of hands; motion carried.
8.   Waterfront Project Agreement with Criser Troutman Tanner (CTT)
Manager McDuffie reported that he had negotiated a proposed contract with CTT
in the amount of $138,000, $18,000 over budget for the waterfront project.
Board consensus to table consideration of the contract until a workshop at
which time CTT can attend and answer any concerns Board members may have.
9.   Set Date for Workshops
Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to hold a workshop, Monday,
July 26, 2014, 6:00 p.m. in the Aldermen Chambers, 201 E. Moore Street.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
10.   Set Public Hearing for annexation of property by Cardinal Builders, 0.415
acre.
Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to conduct a Public
Hearing, Monday, July 28, 2014, 6:00 p.m. in the Aldermen Chambers, 201 E.
Moore Street on a proposed contiguous annexation for Cardinal Builders.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
11.   Listing of Board Projects Together With the Status Thereof
Manager McDuffie asked Board members to provide him with their prioritized
listing of projects prior to the July 28 workshop.
12.   Building Improvements Projects
Manager McDuffie advised the Board that he had consulted with Ms. Connie
Keller, architect, to write a Request for Qualifications (RFQ) for design build
construction for renovations of 201 E. Moore Street.
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to authorize the city
manager to enter into a contract, not to exceed $10,000, to demolish 107 E.
Nash Street. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
13.   Noise Ordinance Discussion
   Police Chief Jerry Dove explained the difficulties his officers are
experiencing when answering complaints of loud music on the Yacht Basin. He
noted that the ordinance regulates amplified noise being audible at a distance
of 1,000 feet during certain hours and those venues playing music are located
closer than 1,000 feet to peoples homes.
Attorney Isenberg discussed the specific language of the ordinance. He pointed
out the distance criteria was added in 2002. He remarked that many communities
used to measure decibels but have gotten away from doing so.
Alderman Coring stated his understanding that Brunswick County is in the
process of rewriting the County Noise Ordinance and he suggested the attorney
review the county’s ordinance and parallel it with the City’s ordinance.
Alderman Barnes shared his experience hearing loud music in front of Mr.
Bruton’s home and he identified with Mr. Bruton’s frustration.
Mayor Howard stated his support of police officers in the matter.
Board consensus for the city attorney to review the County ordinance and to
revisit the topic at a future meeting.
14.   Audit Contract
Alderman Adams motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to approve the Auditing
contract with Berry, Padgett & Chandler, PLLC. Unanimous vote by an uplift of
hands; motion carried. (contract on file in the Clerk’s office)   
Board Comments
Alderman Coring made the following comments:
“Over the course of the last week, there have been some critical comments
brought to our attention concerning some purchases of equipment of the
Southport Fire Department. I would like to take this opportunity to clarify
some things:
1.   SFD operates its budget totally from a DISTRICT wide FIRE Fee, this fee is
paid by citizens in the city and all citizens in our rural fire district.
2.   The SFD is very fiscally responsible and operates within its budget, and
keeps a revolving fund balance for large capital outlay purchases. Recently we
paid $400,000 down on the tower truck, and paid for the brush unit, outright
without financing options.
3.   We currently have approximately $233,000 in reserves, not inclusive of
what was left over this year. We also remain very strong in our Fireman’s
Relief Fund with nearly $80,000 and over $40,000 in our Fireman’s Fund at New
Bridge Bank.
4.   The SFD does not operate off of wants, but rather needs, the current
equipment purchases of a Polaris and a Utility Truck were budgeted items last
year, and will greatly serve the citizens in our fire district.
SFD remains a fully volunteer department, bringing the savings to our citizens
of at least 1 million dollars a year in personnel costs. We strive to remain
very conservative in our spending and budgeting matters. Questions can always
be directed to the Fire Department Administration. Thank you.”
Closed Session – 7:38
Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Childs to go into closed session
pursuant to G.S. 143-318.11(a)(3) to consult with the City Attorney. Unanimous
vote; motion carried.
Regular Session Reconvened – 8:17
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to come out of closed
session. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Mayor Howard stated the Board received advice from the city attorney regarding
annexation issues and contracts he is negotiating for the city.
With no further business, Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Poole to
adjourn the meeting at 8:18 p.m. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
                        /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
JULY 15, 2014
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN                       SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
JULY 15, 2014                           3:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS (201 E. MOORE STREET) SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Buddy Barnes, Nelson Adams, Mary “Meezie”
Childs, and Jim Powell
ABSENT:      Alderman Coring
STAFF PRESENT:   Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
         Michele Windham, City Clerk
         Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
         B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
         Gayle Jones, Deputy City Clerk
         Vickie Potter, Community Building Director
A)   Call to Order - 3:00 p.m.
   Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 3:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
   Alderman Poole welcomed everyone and gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Poole led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
Closed Session – 3:10
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Powell to go into Closed Session
pursuant to G.S. 143-318.11(a)(3). Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Regular Session Reconvened – 3:20
Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Powell to come out of Closed
Session. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Mayor Howard read a prepared statement:
“An exciting time for Southport is now underway; we have come together today to
finalize contracts, agreements, to announce the first phase of the City’s
Decongestion Plan and to thank our participants in this truly amazing Public
Private Partnership.
The Aldermen behind me and our staff saw the rising traffic levels as an
endangerment to our Citizens. We have signaled an end to the talking and now
confirm that relief is on the way.
Everyone in this room is aware of the dangers caused by the increased traffic
congestion here in the City, this coupled with the fact there is only one
roadway leading into and out of a major portion of our community has placed our
citizens and visitors in an untenable danger in the event of an emergency
evacuation. Tangible evidence is
·   Road way construction at the Sawdust Trail Intersection a few years back
·   Truck accident a few weeks back
We have the potential of being trapped when on the inside, similar to being
“under the Dome.”
The Board of Aldermen is announcing today the resulting effect of a Public
Private Partnership in a second roadway into the Historic Section of our
Community will become a reality immediately.
A second entrance into Southport has often been talked of over the years; as
everyone knows it would deliver the radical improvement needed to get traffic
moving.
Rather than just talk about it, this Board is going to make it happen!
We understand that this will not be the perfect solution, but it will go a long
way to improve our current situation.
The planned extension of Rob Gandy Blvd. from E. Leonard Street to River Road,
where there is currently vacant land, will facilitate a second roadway into the
community with completion expected within the next few months. The completion
of this additional roadway will provide relief for our City and our friends
living on Jabbertown Road.
Several years ago, we called a Summit Meeting by and between our State
Legislative Delegation, the Department of Transportation and the Board to
address this danger to our Community. At that time we discussed
·   The construction of the Beach Road Extension
·   The planned improvement to Highway 211 and 87 expected to take place, I
believe around 2017.
We voiced our concern that we as a community could develop additional roadways
out of town, but that if the State does not improve the feeder routes then and
in that event we could not maximize the benefits of the additional roadway.
When we discussed specifically the essential need for a 2nd roadway, DOT
representatives listened intently, understood and agreed with the need but told
us that it would be 2021 or 2022 before this roadway could become a reality
under the current T1 Plan. They offered their assistance in any way possible
under their operating and budget constraints but were clear that we could not
look to the State for a second roadway in the near future.
Realizing that it was not acceptable to expose our Citizens for another Decade
to the dangers and congestion, this Board invited several business leaders to
consider the situation with us and to partner with the City to provide some
relief.
We had originally hoped to attain an easement from Duke Progress Energy over
their property to maximize the distance from the Sawdust Trail intersection.
When this effort did not materialize, we met with Mr. Cameron Smith a local
developer who owns the property fronting on Leonard Street and backing up near
Rob Gandy. Mr. Cameron Smith, managing partner of Smith-Hill Group, was
instrumental in getting this project off the ground by offering to donate the
60’ right of way to the state that extends approximately 2800’ through their
property. This got us approximately 80% of the way to Rob Gandy. In viewing the
map we found that Mr. Howard Lee and Ms. Aleah McKenzie Muhammad_ had property
between the Cameron Smith property and the end of Rob Gandy.
When we met with Mr. Lee, we immediately found a willing partner. With his
coordination of family members we have obtained approximately an acre of land
over their property.
Then we contacted Ms. Muhammad who also saw the need for her community and
agreed to cooperate with this effort.
Only one industry stepped up to the plate; this was Capital Power; Dave Groves
the plant manager has been sympathetic to our dilemma and supportive of the
fix. Capital Power is stepping up to assist our Community by providing more
than $1M to assist in developing this roadway. Mr. Groves and his Company will
provide a press release immediately following this meeting.
Mr. Groves on behalf of all Southport Citizens we thank you and your Company
for coming to our aid. As a result of your good works and contribution, we can
now look forward to the completion of this roadway within the next few months.
In addition to providing an additional ingress and egress this road will allow
the City in conjunction with the State to reroute the truck traffic through the
community. Thank you sir.
On behalf of all Citizens we want to thank Mr. Cameron Smith, Mr. Howard Lee
and his family and Ms. Muhammad for their willingness to partner with the City
and for their cooperation.
With these properties we had the need, the desire, the property but not the
funding to connect the new roadway to River Road. We then turned again to our
Legislative Delegation. Senator Bill Rabon graciously made this happen for us,
he walked with us every step of the way and without his leadership and
contributions this project would not be a reality today. It is impossible for
us to say how very instrumental Senator Rabon has been with this and other
projects.
Representative Frank Iler gave us his support as well; he always made himself
available to assist our efforts and for this we are grateful to him.
With the assistance of our Legislative delegation we contacted Ms. Karen
Fussell, Division Engineer for DOT’s Division 3. The DOT has awarded the City a
Grant of $180,000.00 towards the $196,000.000 intersection cost, with a promise
from Senator Rabon to attempt to find the remaining balance within this year.
On behalf of the Board, we thank Michael Lee, DOT Board Member, Ms. Fussell and
her associates for their participation and contributions to assist us with this
project including but not limited to assisting us in fast tracking this project
through the regulatory process, clearly we have a wonderful person who
understands people and situations, and this comes through and is impressive.
We firmly believe that our efforts around this corridor will be yet another
reason for those who live in Southport to love and to enjoy Southport even
more.
This Board together with our staff has facilitated an effort of positive change
in our Community. And with this announcement, I want to thank this Board for
their long and untiring work and effectiveness in bringing this project to
reality. Each member of this Board has contributed greatly to this project and
for their efforts we thank them. I do want to single out Aldermen Nelson Adams
and Jim Powell for their untiring efforts that far exceed expectations.
When excites me most about this project is how proactive the community was in
coming together with State and Local leaders to partner with our Businesses to
make Southport a better place to live and to work.”
Mayor Howard introduced Mr. Dave Groves, Capital Power. Mr. Groves acknowledged
the long journey undertaken by a public private partnership to realize a much
needed road. He read an official press release:
Capital Power contributing to new road project in the City of Southport
SOUTHPORT, North Carolina – July 15, 2014 – Capital Power, the owner of the
Southport bio-mass power generation facility located on Powerhouse Drive is
fully financing the extension of Rob Gandy Boulevard approximately one mile
east to East Leonard Street.
Once complete, the public road will eliminate the truck traffic that currently
utilizes Jabbertown Road to transport fuel to the power generation facility.
“This project is a responsible and safe alternative to divert truck traffic
from a residential street while assisting the City of Southport develop a new
road, which was already scheduled to be extended in the future,” said Dave
Groves, Plant Manager Southport Facility. “Traffic and road safety is a
priority for Capital Power and it’s important to use to minimize disruptions to
our neighbors, that’s why we’re developing this new road.”
The new double-lane road will be constructed to standards appropriate for heavy
truck traffic. Capital Power is paying for construction costs and once accepted
by the state, the NCDOT will be responsible for maintaining it. As part of the
project, the existing intersection at Highway 87 (River Road SE) will be
upgraded and a new intersection will be constructed at East Leonard Street.
All necessary permits to construct the road have been received and Thompson,
Corder & Co has been awarded a contract to complete the work. Construction is
expected to begin shortly and is estimated to take approximately 60 days, to
complete weather permitting.
Ms. Fussell expressed her appreciation of the Board’s vision, tenacity and
feats in bringing all parties together. She stated her excitement to see the
project completed.
Mayor Howard emphasized the roles of the attorneys involved and he extended the
Board’s appreciation to Mike Isenberg.
Alderman Powell praised the team effort of those involved.
Alderman Poole thanked Mayor Howard for his leadership through the process and
she expressed admiration to those citizens that donated property noting their
contributions would leave a lasting legacy to the community and their families
for generations.
Alderman Adams expressed gratitude to the unified efforts of all involved.
Attorney Isenberg explained the three (3) agreements for the Board’s
consideration:
1.   Agreement with Dr. Brian Satterwhite for conveyance of a right-of-way
easement to the North Carolina Department of Transportation (NCDOT) for
intersection improvements at Rob Gandy Boulevard and St. Rt. 87.
2.   Construction agreement between the City and NCDOT for intersection
improvements at Rob Gandy and 87.
The City is responsible for obtaining funding for construction.
The City is responsible for intersection improvements at Rob Gandy and 87.
NCDOT has agreed to reimburse the City for $180,000.
3.   Agreement between the City and Capital Power for construction and
reimbursement.
Capital Power is the responsible party to build the entire road on the City’s
behalf. The City reimburses Capital for the construction of intersection
improvements only, which is reimbursed to the City from the State.
The road is built to NCDOT standards and dedicated to the State.
Capital Power has agreements with all property owners. Capital will indemnify
the City for all work and plans.
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Nelson:
That the Board of Aldermen approve the terms of the following agreements:
1.   State small Construction Agreement between the City and NCDOT
2.   Construction Commitment and Reimbursement Agreement between the City and
Capital Power
3.   Agreement for acquisition of an easement between the City and the
Satterwhites
And that the Board authorizes the Mayor to execute the agreement with DOT at
this time and the Capital Power & Satterwhite agreements at such time that all
plans, specifications and contract documents have been approved and authorized
by the NCDOT. By an uplift of hands, a unanimous vote; motion carried.
There being no further business, a motion to adjourn was made by Alderman
Poole, second by Alderman Childs. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
JULY 28, 2014
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN                       SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
JULY 28, 2014                           6:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS (201 E. MOORE STREET) SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Buddy Barnes, Nelson Adams, Todd Coring,
Mary “Meezie” Childs, Jim Powell
STAFF PRESENT:   Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
         Michele Windham, City Clerk
         Jerry Dove, Chief of Police
         Bonnie Bray, Finance Director
         Vickie Potter, Community Building Coordinator
         Bob Grant, Administrative Support Specialist
A)   Call to Order - 6:00 p.m.
   Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
   Alderman Poole welcomed everyone and gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Poole led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Public Comments
Mr. John Keiffer, 404 Clarendon Avenue, spoke in opposition to any future
changes to the noise ordinance citing the impact changes could have on
Southport’s vibrant music scene. He talked about the contributions musicians
have made to the community; New Hope Clinic, individuals in need, and non-
profit groups. He stated his opinion that local venues have made every effort
to adhere to the current noise ordinance.
Mr. Jim Chirico, 111 Caswell Avenue and proprietor of Fishy Fishy Café, pointed
out that Fishy Fishy is a dining destination, employs 80 people in the summer,
40 people in the off season and having music has contributed to keeping the
restaurant open all year. He stated his restaurant’s willingness to work with
the City to find a solution to noise issues and he stated his opinion that
changes to the current ordinance could adversely affect businesses on the
waterfront.
Mr. Eric Lappala, 215 W. Moore Street, stated he had hosted parties at his
residence with local musicians and had never heard any complaints from
neighbors.
Ms. Sherol Lappala, 207 N. Lord Street, stated her support for Southport’s
music scene and her opinion the current noise ordinance is reasonable.
Mr. Daniel Guetschow, 211 River Drive, stated he had measured decibel levels
and found the volume only slighter higher than normal conversation.
Ms. Jill Brown, 122 Yacht Basin Drive, and owner of Yacht Basin Eatery agreed
with prior comments made by her colleagues. She stated she felt the music scene
is enriching the community and the current noise ordinance should remain
unchanged.
Mr. Guy Phillips, Oak Island resident and musician at Fishy Fishy Café, spoke
in opposition to changing the noise ordinance.
Ms. Hope Kennedy High, 610 W. Brown Street, addressed the Board about the
acceptance of water and sewer in Olde Southport and her belief that the
utilities had been accepted by the City in 2003.
Mr. & Mrs. Paul & Maria Swenson, 107 N. Atlantic Avenue, endorsed the comments
made regarding the noise ordinance.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Howard stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
AGENDA
Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Poole to approve the agenda.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
1.   Public Hearing for Annexation of Property owned by Cardinal Builders,
0.415 acre
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to go into Public Hearing.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
City Manager McDuffie explained that the property for consideration of
annexation is off Robert Ruark Drive and will allow The Ridge and Southport Way
Subdivisions to be contiguous to the city’s limits. He stated his opinion it
was in the city’s best interest to accept the annexation.
No one from the public spoke.
Alderman Childs motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to go out of Public
Hearing. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
2.   Approval of Ordinance to Annex 0.415 Acre Property
Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Childs to approve the ordinance to
annex 0.415 acre. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
AN ORDINANCE TO EXTEND THE CORPORATE LIMITS OF THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT, NORTH
CAROLINA
   WHEREAS, the City of Southport has been petitioned under G.S.160A-31 to
annex the area described below; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen has by resolution directed the City Clerk to
investigate the sufficiency of the petition; and
   WHEREAS, the City Clerk has certified the sufficiency of the petition and a
public hearing on the question of this annexation was held at Southport City
Hall at 6:00 p.m. on July 28, 2014, after due notice by publication on July 16,
2014; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen finds that the petition meets the
requirements of G.S. 160A-31;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport, North Carolina that:
   Section 1. By virtue of the authority granted by G.S. 160A-31, the following
described territory is hereby annexed and made part of the City of Southport as
of July 28, 2014:
DESCRIPTION OF TAX PARCEL 2210002707, SOUTHPORT, NC.
To arrive at the point of beginning commence at the right of way intersection
of the west side of Maple Leaf Drive and the north side of Robert Ruark Drive
as shown on Map Book 50 Page 68 recorded in the Brunswick County Registry.
Thence crossing Maple Leaf Drive North 52 degrees 34 minutes 14 seconds East a
distance of 32.93 feet to a point within the right of way. Thence along and
with a curve having a radius of 663.87 feet and a chord bearing of North 60
degrees 59 minutes 06 seconds East a distance of 194.30 feet to a point in the
northern right of way of Robert Ruark drive and the POINT OF BEGINNING.
Thence from said POINT OF BEGINNING, North 53 degrees 12 minutes 18 seconds
East a distance of 39.51 feet to a point. Thence North 53 degrees 12 minutes 18
seconds East a distance of 57.62 feet to a point. Thence North 52 degrees 10
minutes 14 seconds East a distance of 55.63 feet to a point. Thence North 52
degrees 10 minutes 14 seconds East a distance of 56.39 feet to a point. Thence
North 19 degrees 58 minutes 39 seconds West a distance of 22.58 feet to a
point. Thence North 69 degrees 58 minutes 38 seconds East a distance of 70.30
feet to a point. Thence South 71 degrees 09 minutes 03 seconds East a distance
of 141.91 feet to a point. Thence South 70 degrees 36 minutes 33 seconds West a
distance of 380.48 feet to the POINT OF BEGINNING.
   The above described parcel contains 0.40 acres (17,341 sq. ft.)
   Section 2. Upon and after July 28, 2014, the above described territory and
its citizens and property shall be subject to all debts, laws, ordinances and
regulations in force in the City of Southport and shall be entitled to the same
privileges and benefits as other parts of the City of Southport. Said territory
shall be subject to municipal taxes according to G.S. 160A-58.10.
   Section 3. The Mayor of the City of Southport shall cause to be recorded in
the office of the Register of Deeds of Brunswick County, and in the office of
the Secretary of State at Raleigh, North Carolina, an accurate map of the
annexed territory, described in Section 1 above, together with a duly certified
copy of this ordinance. Such a map shall also be delivered to the County Board
of Elections, as required by G.S. 163-288.1.
Adopted this the 28th day of July, 2014.         City of Southport
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor   
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
3.   Waterfront Project Agreement With Criser Troutman Tanner (CTT)
City Manager McDuffie stated that CTT had been provided with past development
plans, the current Southport Comprehensive Pedestrian Transportation Plan and
2015-2020 Parks, Recreation and Open Space Master Plan for their review. He
introduced Mr. Mark Arcuri of CTT.
Mr. Arcuri, discussed the useful information he found in the various plans
provided by the city, the pros and cons of including the City Dock in the
Master Plan, possible cost savings options and public engagements. Responding
to concerns raised by Alderman Childs about duplication of services by CTT and
consultants working with property owners on flood zone designation changes, he
explained the data collected for that purpose will be property specific and
CTT’s data will be more taylored, in a different format and more costly to
incorporate. He pointed out that all wetlands will be located in the project
area and any disturbances avoided.
Alderman Childs motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to authorize the city
manager to execute the contract with CTT in the amount of $138,850 (contract on
file in the City Clerk’s office). Unanimous vote; motion carried.
4.   Accept Water, Sewer and Streets in The Ridge at Forest Oaks Subdivision
City Manager McDuffie reported that staff recommends acceptance of the water
and sewer and approval of the streets contingent on the Homeowners Association
correcting those items listed on the report provided by David Fox.
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to accept water and sewer
and to accept the streets when they have been brought up to standards to the
satisfaction of city staff and the city manager. Unanimous vote; motion
carried.
5.   Accept Water, Sewer and Streets in Cottages at Prices Creek Subdivision
City Manager McDuffie pointed out that some street issues needed to be
corrected before acceptance and property owners had agreed to make the
necessary repairs.
Alderman Powell pointed out the alleyways are not part of the acceptance of
streets. The Property Owners Association (POA) retains ownership and
maintenance responsibility of the alleys.
Alderman Coring noted the city does not accept stormwater. Alderman Powell
pointed out the city is responsible for piping in the right-of-way.
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to accept water and sewer.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
6.   Accept Water and Sewer in Olde Southport Subdivision
City Manager McDuffie reported that accepetance of the water and sewer in Olde
Southport had been considered and rejected by the Board in 2004 due to the fact
that the subdivision is a gated community and the City cannot take over the
streets for collection of Powell Bill Funds for maintenance of the streets.
Alderman Powell noted that the Homeowners Association (HOA) would need to have
an agreement with the City on how to handle work in the streets such as paving,
etc. if fixing a water or sewer issue.
Alderman Adams stated his opposition to acceptance of water and sewer in a
development that was closed to the general public and he motioned to not accept
responsibility of the water and sewer in Olde Southport. Motion died for lack
of a second.
Mayor Howard referred the item back to the City Manager for continuing
negotiations.
7.   Board Action on Rezoning of 109 and 113 West Moore Street
City Manager McDuffie stated that staff and the Planning Board have recommended
rezoning of the Harper Library and former Visitor Center, extension of the
Parking Overlay District and zoning change of Keziah Park.
Alderman Childs motioned, second by Alderman Powell to approve the ordinance
rezoning 109 & 113 W. Moore Street (except for Keziah Park) from R-10 to
Central Business District (CBD)
Ayes:   Aldermen Childs, Powell, Poole, Barnes
Nays:   Aldermen Adams, Coring
Moton Passed 4-2
ORDINANCE GRANTING APPLICATION FOR ZONING MAP AMENDMENT
    THAT WHEREAS, the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance, other
land use ordinances and a zoning map that control land development within both
the City’s incorporated areas and within its extraterritorial area; and
   WHEREAS, in order to promote the public health, safety and general welfare
and to promote the best interest of the city and community, it is necessary for
the City Board of Aldermen from time to time to consider appropriate revisions,
modifications and additions to the city’s zoning map; and
   WHEREAS, the city staff has filed an application for a zoning map amendment
requesting that 109 and 113 West Moore Street be rezoned from R-10 to CBD; and
   WHEREAS, the Planning Board has thoroughly considered this matter and has
recommended that the application for zoning map amendment be approved with the
following modifications : (1) that the Parking Overlay District be extended on
both sides of W. Moore Street to the intersection of W. Moore St. and Lord
Street, and (2) that the Keziah Park portion of the property be assigned an
Open Space designation; and
   WHEREAS, pursuant to N. C. General Statutes and city ordinances, a public
hearing, properly noticed, was held on July 10, 2014, before the Board of
Aldermen regarding this issue; and
    WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen hereby finds that the recommendation of the
Planning Board that the property be rezoned from R-10 to CBD, except for the
portion of the property known as Keziah Park, is consistent with the Southport
CAMA Core Land Use Plan; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that the granting of this
application is reasonable and in the public interest in that (i) the tracts in
question are a non-conforming commercial use in residential zoning, (ii) the
requested rezoning is reasonable in that the majority of the parcels
surrounding the parcels in question are zoned Central Business District;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that 109
and 113 West Moore Street, except for the portion known as Keziah Park, are
hereby rezoned from R-10 to CBD.
   This 28th day of July, 2014.
                     City of Southport
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
Alderman Childs motioned, second by Alderman Poole to approve the ordinance
rezoning Keziah Park from R-10 to Open Space (OS)
Ayes:   Aldermen Childs, Poole, Barnes, Powell, Adams
Nays:   Alderman Coring
Motion Passed 5-1
ORDINANCE GRANTING APPLICATION FOR ZONING MAP AMENDMENT
   THAT WHEREAS, the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance, other
land use ordinances and a zoning map that control land development within both
the City’s incorporated areas and within its extraterritorial area; and
   WHEREAS, in order to promote the public health, safety and general welfare
and to promote the best interest of the city and community, it is necessary for
the City Board of Aldermen from time to time to consider appropriate revisions,
modifications and additions to the city’s zoning map; and
   WHEREAS, the city staff has filed an application for a zoning map amendment
requesting that 109 and 113 West Moore Street be rezoned from R-10 to CBD; and
   WHEREAS, the Planning Board has thoroughly considered this matter and has
recommended that the application for zoning map amendment be approved with the
following modifications: (1) that the Parking Overlay District be extended on
both sides of W. Moore Street to the intersection of W. Moore St. and Lord
Street, and (2) that the Keziah Park portion of the property be assigned an
Open Space designation; and
   WHEREAS, pursuant to N. C. General Statutes and city ordinances, a public
hearing, properly noticed, was held on July 10, 2014, before the Board of
Aldermen regarding this issue; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen hereby finds that the recommendation of the
Planning Board that the Keziah Park portion of the property be rezoned from R-
10 to Open Space is consistent with the Southport CAMA Core Land Use Plan; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that rezoning Keziah Park from
R-10 to Open Space is reasonable and in the public interest in that (i) the
tract in question is a park currently zoned residential, (ii) the requested
rezoning is reasonable in that Keziah Park should be zoned Open Space to
conform to proper zoning for park facilities;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that the
Keziah Park portion of the property is hereby rezoned from R-10 to Open Space.
   This 28th day of July, 2014.
                     City of Southport
                   /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
Alderman Childs motioned, second by Alderman Poole to approve the ordinance
extending the Parking Overlay District.
Ayes:   Aldermen Childs, Poole, Barnes, Powell, Adams
Nays:   Alderman Coring
Motion Passed 5-1
ORDINANCE EXTENDING PARKING OVERLAY DISTRICT
    THAT WHEREAS, the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance, other
land use ordinances and a zoning map that control land development within both
the City’s incorporated areas and within its extraterritorial area; and
   WHEREAS, in order to promote the public health, safety and general welfare
and to promote the best interest of the city and community, it is necessary for
the City Board of Aldermen from time to time to consider appropriate revisions,
modifications and additions to the city’s zoning map; and
   WHEREAS, the city staff has filed an application for a zoning map amendment
requesting that 109 and 113 West Moore Street be rezoned from R-10 to CBD; and
   WHEREAS, the Planning Board has thoroughly considered this matter and has
recommended that the application for zoning map amendment be approved with the
following modifications : (1) that the Parking Overlay District be extended on
both sides of W. Moore Street to the intersection of W. Moore St. and Lord
Street, and (2) that the Keziah Park portion of the property be assigned an
Open Space designation; and
   WHEREAS, pursuant to N. C. General Statutes and city ordinances, a public
hearing, properly noticed, was held on July 10, 2014, before the Board of
Aldermen regarding this issue; and
    WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen hereby finds that the recommendation of the
Planning Board that the Parking Overlay District be extended on both sides of
W. Moore Street to the intersection of W. Moore Street and Lord Street is
consistent with the Southport CAMA Core Land Use Plan; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that the granting of this
application is reasonable and in the public interest in that (i) the tracts in
question are a non-conforming commercial use in residential zoning, (ii) the
requested rezoning is reasonable in that the majority of the parcels
surrounding the parcels in question are zoned Central Business District;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that the
Parking Overlay District is hereby extended on both sides of W. Moore Street to
the intersection of W. Moore Street and Lord Street.
   This 28th day of July, 2014.
                     City of Southport
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
8.   Approval of Low Bid for Safe Routes to Schools Project
Manager McDuffie expressed appreciation to Mr. Grant for his hard work on the
project.
Mr. Grant gave an overview of the project; bid results and recommendation by
the project engineer of award of a contract to Norris Construction, Grading and
Paving, Inc., in the amount of $80,008. Mr. Grant stated work is expected to
start after Labor Day with anticipated completion within 60 days. He suggested
that North Carolina Department of Transportation (NCDOT) be involved in site
inspections and materials testing. He stated he has had conversations with
numerous affected property owners and had received favorable responses.
Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to adopt the Resolution
Authorizing the Mayor to Execute a Contract for the Construction of the City of
Southport Safe Routes To Schools Sidewalk Project with Norris Construction,
Grading and Paving, Inc. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
RESOLUTION
Board of Aldermen
City of Southport, NC
Introduced by:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
Resolution Authorizing the Mayor to Execute On Behalf of the City of Southport
a Contract for the Construction of the City of Southport Safe Routes to Schools
Sidewalk Project (TIP # SR-5001BQ –PE 40924.1.37 – CON 40924.3.86; CFD #
20.205) with Norris Construction, Grading and Paving, Inc.
LEGISLATIVE INTENT/PURPOSE:
In accordance with federal law and the North Carolina General Statutes this
resolution recommends award of the above referenced project to Norris
Construction, Grading and Paving, Inc. in the amount of $80,008.
THEREFORE, IT IS RESOLVED:
That the Mayor of the City of Southport is hereby authorized to execute on
behalf of the City of Southport a contract with Norris Construction, Grading
and Paving, Inc. in the amount of $80,008 and any change orders within the
budgeted amount for the above referenced project, pending concurrence with
award by the North Carolina Department of Transportation. Sufficient funds are
available or will be made available in the project to make this award.
Adopted at a Special meeting on July 28, 2014
/s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
                     APPROVED AS TO FORM:
/s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk         /s/ Michael R. Isenberg, Attorney
9.   Setting Priority of Work Duties and Projects
City Manager McDuffie provided the Board with a list of his current priority of
work duties and requested the Board’s priorities on the listing.
Priority of Work Duties
Citizen Inquiries, that the citizen feels their concern needs to be addressed
by the Manager
Managing the day-to-day operations of the city
NCEMPA asset purchase agreement
Waterfront
Bathrooms in downtown
Police Station remodeling
EMS Building
Organizational chart, job descriptions, salary study and update personnel
policy
Lord Street Gym
Cost efficiencies such as Auto Meter Reading
New accounting software
Sidewalks; Safe Routes to Schools
Moving Mobile DMV to old Fire Station location
Creating efficacies in the Utility Department
Web-site enhancements
Selling surplus items
The Board discussed the status of the listed items and advised the City Manager
of their priorities:
Alderman Barnes had provided his priority listing of the items prior to the
meeting.
Alderman Coring stated his priorities: 1. EMS, 2. Police, 3. Waterfront. He
added his opinion that relocation of the mobile DMV unit should be addressed
sooner rather than later.
Alderman Adams stated his continued interest in acquisition and renovation of
the Lord Street Gymnasium.
City Manager McDuffie emphasized the immediate attention needed to the Rescue
Squad roof and the announcement that Duke Power and the North Carolina Eastern
Municipal Power Agency (NCEMPA) had come to an agreement on the sale of assets.
10.   Salaries Study for Employees
City Manager McDuffie reported he will be conducting a salary study and
providing recommendations at a future meeting.
11.   Electrical Cost for New Construction and Cost for Moving to Underground
City Manager McDuffie gave the Board an synopsis of the practice to charge a
homeowner or contractor for new electric service. He provided a listing of
customers for the past three (3) years that paid for additional services such
as boring, hand digging, transformer, j box, or combination of.
Alderman Adams suggested having continued talks with Brunswick Electric
Membership Corp. (BEMC).
Alderman Powell questioned the practice of passing on the charge for
transformers to the customer when the City has a contract with BEMC. He
suggested renogotiation of the Operations & Maintenance (O&M) portion of the
contract.
City Manager McDuffie was tasked with drafting a Policy for Electrical
Connection.
12.   Insurance
Mayor Howard announced that he had disbanded the Insurance Committee noting his
decision was based on the Board and others being too involved in the duties of
the City Manager.
Alderman Adams and Barnes expressed their appreciatoin to the committee for the
task they undertook and the work they did.
Alderman Coring expressed confusion at the disbanding of the committee and he
read into the minutes the following statement:
“A conversation of emails began on Tuesday July 22 at 1:27 pm in regards of the
scheduling of an insurance meeting as the July meeting had been cancelled. The
emails were between the various members of the committee. After seeing the
conversations back and forth I too chimed in stated that yes we needed to have
a meeting asking the manager to arrange. The emails soon stopped.
It was the next day Wednesday July 23 at 6:24am that I received a reply in
reference to the requrested meeting. I was alarmed once I opened same to see
that it wasn’t from the manager but from Mayor Howard. The Mayor told me that
he had asked that the manager not set a meeting as he wished to discuss it with
the board. The email went on to read that he planned to tell the baord that the
committees work had been done and was complete and that the sole responsibility
be given back to the manager. The Mayor continued to remind me that insurance
comes under the manager and his responsibilities and we as a board are in many
ways interfering with that or “usurping” his duty. The Mayor closed to say he
hoped we could all work together in carrying ouf the Board’s statutorily duties
giving our manager support to manage. Later in the afternoon I called the
manager to discuss the content of the email. The manager listed and without
reciting every word as I cannot recall I can sum up the conversation by saying
this. One of the highlights was me being reminded that the Mayor sets
committees and that he said the committee’s job was done. I asked when that was
decided and at what meeting then I just ended the conversation to say that this
would need to be discussed before the full board.
So to sum this all up let me just say this.
·   I do not appreciate the way the decision to end the committee was made and
has been handled. I feel it should have been handled by way of proper
notification and discussion to the committee chairperson/head and vented down
properly to its members and to the Board of Aldermen. The reason I asked that
the committee be formed was due to the fact that employees felt they had been
walked on and not heard by the manager – who now is being handed back sole
power and responsibility to carry on. One might look at other Committees we
have and question if they are under or carrying out the same “statutorily
duties” you are so quick to mention here. Is that or is that not the Manager’s
roles and duty?
·   If I recall (and I have the copied meeting minutes to show) – the committee
had FULL SUPPORT of this board and a VOTED on MOTION for the committee to be a
“standing committee” throught the year – meeting as a team to work towards the
future of the city’s insurance.
·   Lastly I want to make this clear. I ran for and was elected to this office.
I have attended the required trainings by law and received the same personnel
policy, rules of procedures and charter that each of you did. I do not feel
like I need to be reminded in such ways when it comes to ideas and discussions
such as the manager telling me “the Mayor sets committees” and “reminders” that
we as board members are in many ways usurping the managers responsibilities and
preventing him from duty – then closing to say “thanks” and I’m always
available. When exactly are you available? Wish such harsh words and regards
I’m just not sure anymore.”
Concerned
Alderman Todd Coring
Alderman Coring motioned to keep the committee intact. Motion died for lack of
a second.
Closed Session - 7:45
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to go into closed
session.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Regular Session Reconvened – 8:13
   Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Childs to come out of closed
session. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Mayor Howard reported the Board met to discuss contract negotiations
relating to the Lord Street Gym project and initiated review of the City
Manager and discussed the process for performing the review.
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Coring to support the Southport
International Day of Peace, Sunday, September 21. The event is to be held on
the Fort Johnston Garrison Lawn. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Alderman Childs moved to adjourn the meeting, second by Alderman Poole.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
                        /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
AUGUST 14, 2014
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN   REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS   AUGUST 14, 2014
201 E. MOORE STREET SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor Robert D. Howard
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Mary “Meezie” Childs, Nelson Adams, Todd
Coring, Jim Powell
MEMBER ABSENT:   Buddy Barnes
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
   Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   Bob Grant, Administrative Support Specialist
   Jerry Dove, Police Chief
   Vickie Potter, Community Building Coordinator
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
   Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
   Alderman Adams welcomed everyone and Chief Jerry Dove gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Adams led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Special Recognition
   Alderman Coring thanked Assistant Rescue Squad Chief Brannon Gray for his
years of service. Chief Gray is deploying to Afghanistan to provide emergency
medical services in the field.
Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Powell to adopt a Resolution in
Recognition of Brannon Gray, Rescue Squad Assistant Chief. Unanimous vote;
motion carried.
RESOLUTION OF APPRECIATION
BRANNON GRAY, Assistant Chief, Rescue Squad
WHEREAS, Brannon Gray has served the City of Southport and the community since
2006 as a member of the Southport Rescue Squad; and
WHEREAS, for a year he served as Assistant Chief; and
WHEREAS, Brannon has announced his plans to work as a private EMS contractor in
Afghanistan and is being honored by the Board of Aldermen, community and
citizens for his loyal and dedicated contributions to the Southport Rescue
Squad, and
WHEREAS, he was steadfast in his devotion to duty and his years were marked by
commitment and dedication while serving his community and mankind; and
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that Mayor Robert D. Howard and the Southport
Board of Aldermen express its sincere appreciation and wish Brannon Gray
continued success in life’s pursuits.
Presented this 14th day of August 2014.
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
E)   Public Comment
   There was no public comment
F)   Approval of Agenda
   Mayor Howard requested addition of four items to the agenda:
·   Southport ABC Board Request
·   Riverfront Project Discussion
·   Consideration of Event on Garrison Lawn Commemorating the 200th Anniversary
of the Star-Spangled Banner
·   Gift Deed of Property
   Alderman Poole requested tabling item 13, Tour Commission Recommendation of
Ordinance Update.
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Powell to adopt the agenda as
amended.  Unanimous vote; motion carried.
G.   Announcements
   There were no announcements.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Howard stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Powell to approve the consent
agenda. Unanimous vote; motion carried.      
1.   Approval of July 10, 2014 regular meeting minutes - approved
Approval of July 10, 2014 closed session minutes – approved
Approval of July 15, 2014 special meeting minutes - approved
Approval of July 15, 2014 closed session minutes – approved
2.   Franchise Agreement with Brunswick County for Ambulance Service – approved
(agreement included as Attachment #1)
3.   Budget Amendment #1 Donation by DSI for Franklin Square – approved
4.   Budget Amendment #2 Waterfront Project Contract – approved  (contract
included as Attachment #2)        
5.   Final Plat Cades Cove Phase II, Section 8 –  approved
6.   Final Plat Cades Cove Phase IV  – approved
Budget Amendment #1
Fiscal Year 2014-2015
WHEREAS the City of Southport has received and desires to accept a donation
from Downtown Southport, Inc., to undertake special projects for the grounds of
Franklin Square Park and the Garrison House; and
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2014-2015 needs to be amended to
reflect the revenues and appropriations necessary to allow use of these funds;
and
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2014-2015 shall be
amended as follows:
                                             
GENERAL FUND              Previous Amount   Increase   Amended Amount
                                                                                           
Revenues
Parks & Recreation - Donations      $ 17,000   $ 2,000   $ 19,000
Appropriations
Parks & Recreation – R/M Facilities      $ 17,500   $ 2,000   $ 19,500
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, August 14, 2014.
                     
                        /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
/s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk   
Budget Amendment #2
Fiscal Year 2014-2015
WHEREAS the Board of Aldermen for the City of Southport has approved a
professional services contract from Criser Troutman Tanner (CTT) for a
comprehensive waterfront project plan; and
WHEREAS, the cost of the proposal exceeds the amount appropriated for this
purpose in the FY2014-2015 approved budget; and
WHEREAS, funds for this same purpose were previously approved for reservation
in the General Fund fund balance; and
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2014-2015 needs to be amended to
reflect the revenues and appropriations necessary to allow use of these funds;
and
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2014-2015 shall be
amended as follows:
                                             
GENERAL FUND                 Previous Amount   Increase   Amended Amount
                                                                                           
Revenues
Fund Balance Appropriation         $ 0      $ 19,000      $ 19,000
Appropriations
Non-Departmental – Capital Outlay - Other   $ 120,000   $ 19,000      $ 139,000
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, August 14, 2014.
               
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor      
/s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
AGENDA
7.   Public Hearing; Annexation Agreement with Oak Island
Alderman Childs motioned, second by Alderman Powell to go into Public Hearing.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Attorney Isenberg reported that the 88 acre property located on State Route 211
and under consideration for annexation has a small portion that is closer to
the primary limits of Oak Island than Southport which necessitated an
annexation agreement. He pointed out that Oak Island Town Council had approved
the agreement. No one else spoke.
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Childs to come out of Public
Hearing. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
8.   Board Action on Annexation Agreement with Oak Island
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to accept An Ordinance
Establishing An Annexation Agreement Between the Town of Oak Island and The
City of Southport.  Unanimous vote; motion carried. (agreement included as
Attachment #3)
Mayor Howard extended appreciation, on behalf of the Board, to the Town of Oak
Island, it’s Mayor, Board, City Manager and staff for their cooperation.
9.   Set Public Hearing for Annexation of 88 Acres
Following certification of the petition by the Clerk, Alderman Poole motioned,
second by Alderman Adams to adopt a resolution setting the date for Public
Hearing on the question of annexation of a non-contiguous area known as Tract 1
and Tract 2 on NC Highway 211 owned by Oak Island Building Supply, LLC, at 6:00
p.m. on September 11, 2014. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
RESOLUTION FIXING DATE OF PUBLIC HEARING ON QUESTION OF ANNEXATION PURSUANT TO
G.S. 160A-58.2
   WHEREAS, a petition requesting annexation of the non-contiguous area
described herein has been received; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen has by resolution directed the City Clerk to
investigate the sufficiency of the petition; and
   WHEREAS, certification by the City Clerk as to the sufficiency of the
petition has been made;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport, North Carolina that:
   Section 1.   A public hearing on the question of annexation of the non-
contiguous area described herein will be held at the Southport Aldermen
Chambers, 201 E. Moore Street, Southport, N.C., at 6:00 p.m. on September 11,
2014.
   Section 2.   The area proposed for annexation is described as follows:
Tract 1
Oak Island Building Supply, LLC
Deed Book 3167, Page 407
Being all of a tract of land located on the north side of NC Highway 211 in
Smithville Township, Brunswick County, North Carolina, consisting of 83.73
acres, more or less and being more described as being a portion of Tract 1 as
shown on Map Cabinet 19, Page 506 in the Brunswick County, NC Register of
deeds.
Beginning at an iron rod located at the intersection of the northeasterly
highway boundary of NC Highway 211 (Row varies) with the property line between
the lands now or formerly of Oak Island Building Supply, LLC as recorded in
Deed Book 3167 at Page 407 on the East, and the lands of Brunswick Church of
Christ as recorded in Deed Book 1148 at Page 909 on the West.
From the POINT OF BEGINNING; Thence, N 15° 51' 13" E for a distance of 3310.67
feet to a point.
Thence, S 74° 35' 57" E for a distance of 1286.33 feet to a point.
Thence, S 15° 40' 51" W for a distance of 1934.04 to a point on a curve on the
western side of a new D.O.T. Right of Way, the following 13 courses:
Said Curve turning to the right through 04° 42' 26.7", having a radius of
1208.29 feet, and whose long chord bears S 45° 33' 56" W for a distance of
99.24 feet a point on a curve.
Said curve turning to the right through an angle of 04° 28' 42.4", having a
radius of 1209.00 feet, and whose long chord bears S 50° 09' 15" W for a
distance of 94.48 feet to
   a point.
   Thence, S 54° 45' 46" W for a distance of 99.72 feet to a point.
   Thence, S 55° 27' 48" W for a distance of 146.40 feet to a point.
   Thence, S 61° 08' 02" W for a distance of 154.00 feet to the beginning of a
curve,
Said curve turning to the left through an angle of 11° 30' 16.0", having a
radius of 1265.00 feet, and whose long chord bears S 51° 09' 00" W for a
distance of 253.57 feet to a point.
   Thence, S 43° 00' 34" W for a distance of 105.41 feet to the beginning of a
curve,
Said curve turning to the left through an angle of 04° 56' 29.3", having a
radius of 1265.00 feet, and whose long chord bears S 38° 09' 06" W for a
distance of 109.07 feet to a point.
   Thence, S 32° 56' 20" W for a distance of 52.32 feet to a point.
   Thence, S 32° 56' 20" W for a distance of 212.72 feet to a point.
   Thence, S 23° 57' 47" W for a distance of 108.45 feet to a point.
   Thence, S 23° 20' 01" W for a distance of 93.77 feet to a point.
Thence, S 52° 43' 37" W for a distance of 80.78 feet to a point on the northern
R.O.W. of
   NC Highway 211.
   Thence, N 74° 33' 27" W for a distance of 430.00 feet to a point.
   Thence, N 74° 33' 34" W a distance of 104.45 feet to the POINT OF BEGINNING;
   Containing 3,647,291.03 square feet or 83.73 acres.                     
Tract 2 (Highway Commercial)
Oak Island Building Supply, LLC
Deed Book 3167, Page 407
Being all of a tract of land located on the north side of NC Highway 211 in
Smithville Township, Brunswick County, North Carolina, consisting of 83.73
acres, more or less and being more described as a portion of Tract 1 as shown
on Map Cabinet 19, Page 506 in the Brunswick County, NC Register of deeds.
Commencing at an iron rod located at the intersection of the northeasterly
highway boundary of NC High 211 (Row varies) with the property line between the
lands now or formerly of Oak Island Building Supply, LLC as recorded in Deed
Book 3167 at Page 407 on the East, and the lands of Brunswick Church of Christ
as recorded in Deed Book 1148 at Page 909 on the West and running the following
courses:
Thence, along the Northern R.O.W. of Hwy 211, S 74° 20' 11" E for a distance of
1298.39 feet to a point.
   Thence, N 15° 38' 53" E for a distance of 403.91 feet to the Point of
Beginning.
From the POINT OF BEGINNING;
Thence, N 14° 30' 11" E for a distance of 90.67 feet to a point.
Thence, N 15° 40' 39" E for a distance of 630.90 feet to a point.
Thence, S 54° 47' 03" W for a distance of 84.30 feet to a point.
Thence, S 61° 11' 56" W for a distance of 154.07 feet to a point.
Thence, S 65° 10' 23" W for a distance of 146.70 feet to the beginning of a
curve,
Said curve turning to the left through an angle of 21° 41' 28.2", having a
radius of 1369.56 feet, and whose long chord bears S 43° 58' 22" W for a
distance of 515.40 feet to a point of intersection with a line.
Thence S 74° 37' 09" E for a distance of 320.82 feet to a point on a line.
Thence S 74° 06' 25" E a distance of 200.00 feet to the POINT OF BEGINNING;
Containing 222,326.62 square feet or 5.10 acres.
   Section 3.   Notice of the public hearing shall be published once in the
State Port Pilot, a newspaper having general circulation in the City of
Southport, North Carolina, at least ten (10) days prior to the date of the
public hearing.
                        /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
10.   Presentation and Approval of Parks and Recreation Master Plan
Heather Hemphill, Director of Southport Parks and Recreation Department,
discussed the process undertaken to complete the 2015-2020 Parks, Recreation
and Open Space Master Plan; over a year in development, surveys sent to all
city residents and taxpayers asking specific questions about facilities, staff,
desired future programs, held public meetings and focus groups. Ms. Hemphill
indicated the Recreation Advisory Committee had adopted the plan at their June
10 meeting.
Mr. Jim Herstine, consultant, commented that the Plan is a composite document
with recommendations from various sources giving the City the benefit of a
strategic plan and opens up funding opportunities through state and federal
grants.
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Coring to approve the 2015 – 2020
Parks, Recreation and Open Space Master Plan. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
(plan on file in the Clerk’s office)
11.   Electrical Connection Policy
   City Manager McDuffie explained the proposed revisions to the Electrical
Service Connection Policy and Fee Schedule;
·   If a basic overhead temporary service or new underground service requires
upgrade to electrical facilities within City or Department of Transportation
right-of-way, the City will pay the cost for the upgrades.
·   When primary is extended to provide service to a property, new subdivision
or recombination of properties, the requester will pay the entire cost of the
extension. The requester will pay the entire cost to move primary and secondary
if the requester is recombining lots or asking that the utility be moved for
their aesthetics.
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Powell to adopt the revisions to
the Policy & Fee Schedule as presented. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Alderman Adams suggested making reimbursement to those customers who have
incurred costs for transformer upgrades.
The City Manager was directed to provide the cost of reimbursements for one,
three and five years past to the Board at the September regular meeting.
12.   Load Management on New Construction
Manager McDuffie talked about the success of the Load Management Program and he
presented a proposed ordinance amendment to Chapter 19, Article V. Electrical
Service which would require installation by the building contractor or plumbing
or electric sub-contractor of a Load Management switch on all electric water
heaters 40 gallons or larger and all compressor and heat strip circuits on all
standard 240V electric heat pumps or HVAC units in new residential structures.
Alderman Powell spoke in favor of the proposed amendment noting that Apex,
North Carolina has adopted a similar policy and has the lowest electric rate of
all the communities in the Eastern Power Agency.
Alderman Adams stated his opinion the choice to have Load Management switches
should be elective for a homeowner and not mandatory. Alderman Poole agreed.
City Manager McDuffie estimated that approximately 27% of electric customers
have the switches. He pointed out that the switches can be programmed by city
staff to be on or off. He stated the switches cost $150 for water heater and
$175 for AC or heat strips.
Mayor Howard asked Building Inspector Strickland how requiring the switches
would affect issuance of permits. Mr. Strickland indicated he had spoken with
building contractors and the installation of the switches during the time of
construction would be easily integrated and less expensive. He speculated the
cost of labor would be negligible, for a maximum total cost for purchase of the
switch and installation less than $400. He estimated the switches could be
purchased in bulk at a reduced cost by city staff.
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Childs to table the item until the
September regular meeting. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
13.   Consideration of NCDOT Resolution
   Mayor Howard explained a resolution to North Carolina Department of
Transportation (NCDOT) requesting construction of curb cuts, acceleration and
deceleration lanes installed at the connection of J. Swain Blvd. and Long Beach
Road Extension that would provide additional ingress/egress to the Rivermist
community, improve public safety, and offer relief to that congested area.
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Adams to adopt the Resolution.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
A RESOLUTION REQUESTING AN ADDITION
TO THE LONG BEACH ROAD EXTENSION PROJECT
   
   WHEREAS the North Carolina Department of Transportation is undertaking the
construction of the Long Beach Road Extension (R-3324) from NC 87 to NC 133;
and
   WHEREAS J. Swain Boulevard, a collector road in Southport, extends from a
point 2100 feet south of the NC 211/Long Beach Road intersection to a point
within 650 feet of the planned Long Beach Road Extension; and
   WHEREAS the extension of this collector road would significantly facilitate
the flow of northbound traffic from NC 211 and the Dutchman’s Village
development to the Long Beach Road Extension; and
   WHEREAS the City has requested and the property owner has indicated his
willingness to extend J. Swain Boulevard to the Long Beach Road Extension;
   BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the City of Southport requests that the Department of
Transportation include, in the design for the Long Beach Road Extension, fund
and construct the curb cut and any needed acceleration, deceleration and
turning radius to connect J. Swain Boulevard to Long Beach Road Extension.
   Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, August 14,
2014.
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor         
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
14.   Insurance
   City Manager McDuffie explained the annual wellness requirements for pre-65
retirees under the city’s health insurance benefits. He stated the Board must
choose to opt in or out for participation of the eight (8) pre-65 retirees.
Alderman Adams motioned, second by Alderman Poole to Opt In. Unanimous vote;
motion carried.
Recess:   6:52 – 7:00
The Board took a short recess to examine the plans for the proposed public
restrooms on East Nash Street.
15.   Building Improvement Projects
   Public Restrooms
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Poole (for discussion purposes)
to move forward with the restroom facility but to relocate the utility room to
the back of the building and to eliminate the unisex restroom.
Discussion
Alderman Adams stated his support for keeping the unisex restroom. Alderman
Poole agreed noting that businesses and citizens have been requesting public
restrooms. She stated her opinion that the additional expense would better
enhance the facility and accommodate families.
Aye:   Alderman Powell
Nays:   Alderman Poole, Coring, Adams, Child
Motion Failed 4-1
Alderman Adams motioned, second by Alderman Poole to approve the plans as
presented, and relocating the utility room to the back of the facility.
Ayes:   Alderman Adams, Poole, Coring, Childs
Nay:   Alderman Powell
Motion Passed 4-1   
EMS Building
City Manager McDuffie reported that the roof of the Rescue Squad building is
leaking. He pointed out that the roof has been patched twice since November
2013 and another patch would cost a minimum of $3,000 versus the cost estimate
of $35 per sq. ft. for replacement.
The Board discussed the anticipated time frame for performing a feasibility
study for either remodel or replacement of the facility.
Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Childs to refer to the Emergency
Services Committee to determine either replacement of the roof or to make
temporary patches until completion of a feasibility study for replacement or
renovation of the facility and once determination made, to authorize the city
manager to act on behalf of the Board. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
16.   2nd Yard Waste Cart Rate
   Finance Director, Ms. Bray, explained that there was a discrepancy between
the amount billed to the city and the amount charged to customers for a yard
waste cart provided beyond the standard issue of one poly cart per residence.
Staff is recommending an increase of $2.94 a month per cart.
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Powell to adopt staff’s
recommendation and increase the monthly existing rate for additional yard waste
carts, affecting seven (7) customers. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
17.   Consideration of Request for Reimbursement by Dr. Satterwhite
Mayor Howard explained the request from Dr. Bryan Satterwhite for reimbursement
of $1,300 in expenses for attorney and bank fees for his efforts to accommodate
the city in regards to acquisition of a right-of-way for improvements to the
Rob Gandy Boulevard/NC 87 intersection.
Attorney Isenberg stated his opinion that the Board did not have the authority
to reimburse Dr. Satterwhite because the city was only acting as a facilitator
between Dr. Satterwhite and NCDOT, the contract for purchase was not signed and
approved and provided that the City had no financial liability and Dr.
Satterwhite’s debt is not a legal debt of the city.
Alderman Powell pointed out that Dr. Satterwhite had negotiated in good faith.
Mayor Howard agreed and suggested waiving any permit fees for a sign requested
by Dr. Satterwhite
18.   Termination of the Insurance Committee
Alderman Coring raised concerns regarding the termination of the insurance
committee stating his opinion that the committee was Board appointed and its
termination was not justified.
After reading the minutes from the meeting in which the committee was
appointed, Attorney Isenberg stated his opinion the motion and second was
unclear to whether the Board was establishing the committee or it was a request
for the Mayor to establish the committee.
Mayor Howard stated he assumed that when the motion was made that he would
appoint the committee from the recommendation made by Alderman Coring.
Alderman Adams stated his support of the recommendation for the committee while
also questioning if the committee should be working under the direction of the
city manager.
Alderman Powell stated his opinion that insurance business is the city
manager’s job.
Attorney Isenberg stated that regardless of who appoints a committee, the
committee is under the direction of the Board unless the Board designates
someone else and the committee does not have any authority unless given
authority by the Board.
Alderman Coring noted that the committee was working alongside the city
manager.
Alderman Coring motioned to keep the insurance committee in force with the same
members. Motion died for lack of a second.
Alderman Poole expressed her opinion the committee was a Mayor appointed
committee. She pointed out that the city manager is the Human Resources Officer
per State statute and that insurance is an HR issue.
19.   Request from Southport ABC Board
   Mayor Howard presented a request from Southport ABC Board Chairman, Robert
Jones, for permission to participate in the Sold Out NC School Alcohol
Abstinence Education.
Attorney Isenberg explained that the ABC Board is required to ask permission
for participation as all profits of the Southport ABC store must go into the
city’s general fund per statutory regulations.
Alderman Adams motioned, second by Alderman Coring to authorize the Southport
ABC Board to contribute $1,000 one-time for the program. Unanimous vote; motion
carried. 
20.   Riverfront
Mayor Howard recommended establishing a Riverfront Steering Redevelopment
Committee to help draft a plan for the Southport riverfront evaluation and
development. He suggested the committee report to the Board on the following
points:
   a.   What shall be included in future riverfront development?
   b.   Should the City of Southport incorporate a quasi-public, not-for-profit
riverfront development corporation?
   c.   What types of zones/land use issues should be considered and/or
implemented and how will those affect economic development goals identified by
the task force?
   d.   What, if any, changes to existing street patterns will be required to
responsibly develop riverfront property and how can Southport best interact
with DOT, Corps, Brunswick County and State of NC to ensure desired results?
   e.   What level of site control should the City have over parcels with
potential for development? Should the City identify parcels of land for
acquisition to guarantee a specific end use?
   f.   Which recreational features should be included to complement the
overall plan of development and lead to enhanced quality of life, including but
not limited to: an outdoor amphitheater, walking trails, open space, water
features, plantings, a boardwalk, hotel(s), and any others considered by the
committee or offered by the public.
   g.   Should the City seek conveyance of private land or parcels of
contiguous land and what should be done with such space as it relates to our
riverfront?
   h.   Should the riverfront development be tied in to further development at
the Boat Harbor, Marina, City Property (including former sewer plant) and what
is the most effective way to link riverfront development to Main Street and the
entire historic district?
   i.   What are other successful models for riverfront development throughout
the United States of America and which features from those would work
appropriately for Southport?
   j.   Any other questions identified as appropriate by the Task Force.
Mayor Howard proposed publicizing for residents to make applications to serve
on the committee.
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Childs to publicize for applicants
to serve on the committee.
Ayes:   Aldermen Poole, Childs, Powell, Adams
Nay:   Alderman Coring
Motion passes 4-1
21.   200th Anniversary of Star-Spangled Banner
   Mayor Howard presented a request by Ms. Cindy Sellers, Director of the Sea
Notes, for city participation of a commemorative event marking the 200th
anniversary of the writing of the Star-Spangled Banner. The event will be
sponsored by the Commissioner Charles Gause Chapter of US Daughters of 1812.
The program will include remarks by attending dignitaries, singing of all
verses of the Star-Spangled Banner, Firing of Cannon Thor and display of a 15-
star historically appropriate flag. Mayor Howard noted that Governor Pat
McCrory had issued a proclamation declaring September 9, 2014, “200th
Anniversary Commemorative and Star-Spangled Banner Living Flag Day” in North
Carolina.
Board consensus to support the Commemorative Event marking the 200th
Anniversary of the Star-Spangled Banner, September 9, 2014, 11:00 a.m. on the
Fort Johnston Garrison Lawn.
22.   Gift of Property
Alderman Childs motioned, second by Alderman Coring to accept a gift of .40
acre of property recently annexed that contains the Forest Oaks sewer lift
station from Cardinal Builders Company. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
23.   Closed Session – 8:05
Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Poole to go into closed session
pursuant to G.S 143-318.11(a)(3) to consult with the City Attorney and G.S.
143-318.11(a)(6) for discussion of personnel issues. Unanimous vote; motion
carried.
Regular Session Reconvenes – 8:22
Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Childs to come out of closed
session. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Mayor Howard reported the Board received advice from the City Attorney
regarding acceptance of water and sewer lines in the Olde Southport subdivision
and discussed a personnel matter with the City Manager.
Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Powell for Alderman Poole to
coordinate the personal evaluation of the City Manager. Unanimous vote; motion
carried.
Board Comments
Alderman Coring asked about the morale of city employees. City Manager McDuffie
stated his opinion that morale is improving.
Alderman Coring expressed appreciation to the Public Services Department for
their assistance to the Fire Department during a recent structure fire.
Adjournment- 8:28 p.m.
Alderman Poole moved to adjourn the meeting, second by Alderman Powell.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
                        /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:   /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
SEPTEMBER 11, 2014
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN   REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS   SEPTEMBER 11, 2014
201 E. MOORE STREET SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor Robert D. Howard
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Mary “Meezie” Childs,
            Nelson Adams, Todd Coring, Jim Powell, Buddy Barnes
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   Jerry Dove, Police Chief
   Vickie Potter, Community Building Coordinator
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
   Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
   Alderman Barnes welcomed everyone and Chief Jerry Dove gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Barnes led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Announcements
   Mayor Howard announced that a Public Hearing would be held Tuesday,
September 16, 2014 at 6:00 p.m. for consideration of an initial zoning
classification for the 88 acres on Highway 211under consideration for
annexation.
   Mayor Howard announced the Sea Notes Choral Society is celebrating their
40th Anniversary
E)   Public Comment
Ms. Dianne Boguskie, 502 W. Brown Street, read a statement written by her
husband, Mr. Ed Boguskie:
To the Board of Aldermen:
I was flabbergasted this week when I read and heard the Southport City Manager,
Kerry McDuffie, was going to ask the Board of Aldermen for an assistant city
manager. Since we came to Southport the city has had three city managers, prior
to the current manager, Rob Gandy, Alan Thornton and Pat Thomas, with City
Clerk, Regina Alexander, as an interim city manager. None of these asked the
board for an assistant. Why now? Southport has about the same population as in
1995, give or take 50 or so people. Has the work load increased that much? I
don’t think so. Granted the other three managers had a well-qualified clerk to
work with. Through no fault of her own, the present clerk has not had the
tenure or training needed to perform the duties of a City Clerk. City Clerk and
City Manager have two separate roles to play in carrying on the business of the
city, not interchangeable, but each can and will enhance the other as they
perform their separate duties. The board has been very reluctant to spend money
on our present employees stating they, the BofA, are looking out for the
taxpayers of Southport. The City Planners position was dropped, as Southport
did not need a full time planner according to you, the board. Likewise the
Utilities Directors position was scrubbed, again Southport did not need a full
time person in that position. The present City Manager stated Southport did not
need a civil engineer in that position. Maybe we know more than BSL as they
stated how happy they were to find a Utilities Director that was also a civil
engineer.
If you, the board, even consider this request you have a lot of explaining to
the taxpayers of Southport. After each of the above positions were cancelled
you, the board, stated how much money you had saved the taxpayers. Explain to
the people why the City Manager needs an assistant. You, the board, need to
closely look at this request and ask yourselves, Why?
I would like for this statement to be a part of the minutes of the September
11, 2014 meeting of the Southport Board of Aldermen.
Ed Boguskie
502 W. Brown Street.
Southport, NC 28461
Mr. Steve Simon, 6211 Pebble Shore Lane, spoke to the Board about his tour
business. He thanked the Board for action taken to resolve the placement of A-
frame signs for tour businesses. He stated that his business has improved and
his opinion that the current tours are meeting the demand.
Mayor Howard read a statement:
“Late last week we received a public records request regarding the upfit of the
City’s administrative offices at 1029 N. Howe Street.
In addition I received an unrelated comment and request for response that there
is chatter in the community that the City’s construction work is being awarded
to Jim Powell’s son-in-law.
Normally, I do not address these type requests or perceptions in public
meetings, however when this Board’s credibility is called into question, we
will step up face them directly, be transparent and disclose all issues and
facts.
The following request for information was received from former City manager Rob
Gandy; all relating to the up fit of the 1029 Building:
1.   The total amount of funds spent
2.   If project exceeded $30K a copy of advertisement for request of formal
bids as
required under the State of NC Statutes
3.   A copy of vendor names of quotes received
4.   A copy of the BOA minutes containing the vote to award the project to the
successful bidder
5.   A copy of scope of services for this project which is required by law
6.   The name of the Construction Company along with the principals of the
company
We don’t want the reality or the perception that we are less than transparent;
therefore I will take the time in this meeting to address this situation and to
make full disclosure.
Mr. Gandy as Interim City Manager was asked by this Board to complete the up
fit of the 1029 administrative offices. It goes without saying Mr. Gandy was a
wonderful City Manager and did an effective and great service as Interim City
Manager last year.
Upon receipt of Mr. Gandy’s request we began assembling the information, then
on Monday morning Mr. Gandy withdrew his request for this information.
The most important thing to me individually and as Mayor is credibility,
honesty and integrity; when there is a question, even a perception, I want to
make sure all information is made available to the public.
First I want to reveal what the minutes disclose regarding the authority to
renovate the building. Mr. Gandy made the decision, which later received
unanimous support from the Board that the Police Department would stay in this
building along with the Board of Aldermen Chambers. That Code Enforcement,
Finance, Planning and Administration would occupy the 1st floor of the 1029
building. Ref. 4.6.13 & 9.12.13 BOA Minutes.
When Mr. Gandy elected not to take the City Managers position that the Board
had offered him, the Board asked the Space Planning Committee to move the
project forward. Ref 9.12.13 & 10.10.13 BOA Minutes
The issues raised are dealt with in state statutes NCGA143-129 & NCGA 143-131.
The statutes require informal bids for contracts from $30k to $500k, then
formal bids for contracts in excess of $500k. If the project is $30k or less
then bidding is not required and the City is free to establish its own
procedure.
∙   The total cost of the construction portion of the project is $66,266.00
which I believe is some 40% less than projected. Only one contract required
informal bids.
∙   Turner Contracting, Inc. who provided construction labor and tools was paid
$35,997.46.
∙   Architectural Service and space planning were $16,495.64.
∙   All other Contracts were significantly less.
Results:
∙   Unexpectedly the labor portion of the job exceeded $30k. We should have
obtained and documented informal bids for this one Contract.
∙   Turner Contracting has an employee who is Alderman Powell’s son-in-law.
∙   Mr. Powell’s son-in-law has never been awarded a contract individually; as
stated above the Company he works for did contract labor and providing tools
for the 1029 Building upfit. The only project he or Turner have been involved
regarding City projects.
∙   While using a Company that employs an Alderman’s family member is not
illegal it presents the wrong perception.
∙   There are no outstanding commitments to any person or Company for work
under consideration by the City. Mr. McDuffie assumed responsibility for all
projects when he joined the staff; he clearly understands the statutes and
perceptions.
In order to assure full transparency we will take this concern to the next
step. I am asking Mr. Minton Padgett of Berry, Padgett and Chandler, whose firm
has the audit contract for the City this year and the City Attorney to examine
the minutes, documentation and financial records together with any other
documents they deem appropriate regarding this issue; then report their
findings and results to the Board of Aldermen in open session.
The fact is that during the transition of City Managers, the Board asked the
Space Planning Committee to move the job forward. The City Manager was
authorized by the Board to proceed to execute the plan…Any errors, omissions or
mistakes during this time are my sole responsibility, no one on this Board, Mr.
Gandy or Mr. McDuffie has any responsibility in the matters under discussion
whatsoever. The buck stops here and I stand ready to take responsibility and
any consequences for any errors or misjudgments.
If any infractions are found during the investigation and audit, then and in
that event I will assume full responsibility.”
F)   Approval of Agenda
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Howard stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
Aldermen Childs stated she would not be participating in discussion or vote of
Item 10. Utility Adjustment Policy. The Board agreed to excuse her.
   Mayor Howard requested addition of a closed session to the agenda.
   Alderman Poole requested addition of consideration of a resolution for
replacement of the Dutchman Creek Bridge.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to adopt the agenda as
amended.  Unanimous vote; motion carried.
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to approve the consent
agenda. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
1.   Approval of July 28, 2014 special meeting minutes - approved
Approval of July 28, 2014 closed session minutes – approved
Approval of August 14, 2014 regular meeting minutes - approved
Approval of August 14, 2014 closed session minutes – approved
2.   Direct Clerk to investigate a Petition for Voluntary Annexation of 1643
North Howe Street received under G.S. 160A-58.1 – approved  
3.   Budget Amendment #3 – approved
RESOLUTION DIRECTING THE CLERK TO INVESTIGATE
A PETITION RECEIVED UNDER G.S. 160A-58.1
   WHEREAS, a petition requesting annexation of an area described in said
petition was received on August 7, 2014, by the Board of Aldermen; and
   WHEREAS, G.S. 160A-58.2 provides that the sufficiency of the petition shall
be investigated by the City Clerk before further annexation proceedings may
take place; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport deems it advisable
to proceed in response to this request for annexation;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport that:
   The City Clerk is hereby directed to investigate the sufficiency of the
above described petition and to certify as soon as possible to the Board of
Aldermen the result of her investigation.
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
Budget Amendment #3
Fiscal Year 2014-2015
WHEREAS the Board of Aldermen for the City of Southport approved the
installation of SpectraShield liners for 63 manholes in the FY 2013-2014
budget; and
WHEREAS, the work was unable to be completed in that budget year; and
WHEREAS, the unused appropriation was returned to the Water and Sewer Fund fund
balance; and
WHEREAS, the work can be completed in the current budget year; and
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2014-2015 needs to be amended to
reflect the revenues and appropriations necessary to allow use of these funds;
and
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2014-2015 shall be
amended as follows:
WATER & SEWER FUND                       Previous
Amount   Increase      Amended Amount
Revenues
Fund Balance Appropriation         $ 0      $ 11,700   $ 11,700
Appropriations
Capital Outlay – Facilities            $ 53,200   $ 11,700    $ 64,900
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, September 11,
2014.
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
AGENDA
4.   Resolution of Support for International Peace Day
Alderman Poole recognized the event coordinators and commended them for their
efforts organizing the first Southport “Peace Day.” She pointed out that
through the Parks and Recreation Department, children would be doing peace
poles which will be placed at the Caswell Avenue Community Garden and City
Hall. She added that an information display case had been set up at the
Visitors’ Center and Ms. Margorie Jones, present in the audience, had
brochures.
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Coring to adopt the Resolution in
Support of International Day of Peace. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Aldermen Poole read the Resolution:
RESOLUTION IN SUPPORT OF INTERNATIONAL DAY OF PEACE
WHEREAS, The United Nations in 1981 established a yearly International Day of
Peace, a day devoted to strengthening the ideals of peace both within and among
all nations and people; and
WHEREAS, The International Day of Peace is now observed around the world each
year on September 21 to put aside all that separates us and to experience
peace; and
WHEREAS, the theme of the 2014 International Day of Peace is “The Right of
Peoples to Peace”; and
WHEREAS, Southport residents are coordinating a celebration of the
International Day of Peace on a local level and encouraging other communities
to create their own events; and
WHEREAS, the Celebration of Peace will be held and will include songs, dances,
informational booths, a Peace board for participants to leave peace thoughts,
and children’s activities creating peace doves, cranes and pinwheels; and
WHEREAS, Peace poles will be installed at the Caswell Avenue Community Garden
and at City Hall; and
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Mayor and Southport Board of Aldermen
on this the 11th day of September 2014, hereby proclaim Sunday, September 21,
2014 as “Peace Day” in the City of Southport and urge all citizens to join in
the festivities of this day and promote peace among all peoples.
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
5.   Public Hearing for Annexation of 88 Acres
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to go into Public
Hearing. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   City Attorney Isenberg reported the public hearing was for consideration of
annexation of two non-contiguous tracts consisting of approximately 88 acres
total on Highway 211. He indicated the Clerk had certified the petition and an
agreement was made with Oak Island allowing Southport to annex all of this
property. The agreement was necessary because a small portion of the property
was closer to the city limits of Oak Island than to Southport’s city limits.
(Agreement on file in the Clerk’s Office) 
   There was no comment from the public.
   Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Childs to go out of Public
Hearing. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
6.   Board Action on Annexation of 88 Acres   
Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Coring to adopt the Ordinance to
Extend the Corporate Limits of the City of Southport.  (Ordinance on File in
the Clerk’s Office) Unanimous vote by a show of hands; motion carried.
7.   Waterfront Steering Committee Appointments
Mayor Howard pointed out that a number of applications had been received from
citizens expressing a genuine interest in serving on the Waterfront Steering
Committee. Alderman Poole proposed each Board member complete a ballot of their
choices, selecting seven (7) members. She recommended the Committee have a
Chair and a Co-Chair. Alderman Barnes suggested an alternate member also be
appointed.
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Barnes for each Board member to
provide a list to the Mayor of seven (7) nominees and one (1) alternate
nominee, chosen from the applications submitted, after which appointments will
be made. Unanimous vote; motion carried. 
8.   Tour Commission Recommendation of Ordinance Update   
Item deferred until next meeting.
9.   Electrical Connection Policy Refunds
City Manager McDuffie presented the staff recommended refunds to four (4)
electrical customers for 2014 charges totaling $5,731.19.
Alderman Adams motioned, second by Alderman Poole to accept the recommendation
of staff to make four (4) refunds to electrical customers. Unanimous vote;
motion carried.
10.   Utility Adjustment Policy
Mayor Howard pointed out that Alderman Childs would not be participating in the
discussion and vote.
City Manager McDuffie discussed recent large leaks of water customers and his
subsequent review of the city’s utility rate structure. He identified that the
water rates are based on two functions; the cost to purchase the water from the
County and Operation and Maintenance (O&M) of the distribution system. He noted
when a large leak is found, it is not practical to collect O&M costs. He stated
that historically the City has adjusted the sewer charge for a large water
leak. He indicated staff is recommending, retro-active to July 1, 2014, that
customers experiencing a large water leak only be charged with the purchase
cost of the water. Responding to queries by Mayor Howard and Aldermen Poole,
Adams and Powell, City Manager McDuffie stated that moving forward, when a
customer receives a large bill, a leak is discovered and verified by a plumber
or city staff, the city will charge for a six-month historical usage rate by
the customer and the customer would be issued a credit for the overage.
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Powell to approve the Utility
Adjustment Policy as presented by the City Manager.
Discussion
Alderman Adams indicated he had met with the city’s meter reader and the
equipment used to read the meters notifies the meter reader of a reading that
is above the normal usage. City Manager McDuffie pointed out the meter reader
reads approximately 100 water meters and 124 electric meters per day.
Alderman Coring suggested researching further technological capabilities for
indication of abnormal usage prior to issuance of the utility bill.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
11.   Lord Street Gym
Item deferred to a later meeting.
12.   Parking on Davis Street
City Manager McDuffie reported he had received a request from citizens that
live on N. Davis Street to change parking from parallel to diagonal for easier
and safer access to their driveways. He stated there are currently 11 parking
spaces and changing to diagonal parking would allow for a total of 14 spaces.
He presented a proposal from Southern Asphalt, Inc. in the amount of $4,050 to
do asphalt work and stripe the spaces.
Alderman Adams suggested deferring consideration of the request to explore what
issues the parking change would address and what complications could be
created. Alderman Coring agreed and pointed out a raised concrete wall on the
east side of Davis Street that would be problematic. Alderman Barnes asked
about the proposed length of the parking spaces and he discussed the
possibility of trucks extending into the street.
Item deferred to a future meeting.
13.   Parking Spaces after Repaving Howe and Moore Streets
City Manager McDuffie stated that the North Carolina Department of
Transportation (NCDOT) reported to him that a study performed to determine if
additional parking spaces could be realized on Moore and Howe Streets, during
the upcoming repaving and marking, had concluded that the existing parking
spaces are the maximum allowable.
14.   Speed Limit on Howe and Moore in Downtown
City Manager McDuffie provided a staff recommendation to decrease the speed
limit to 25 mph on Moore Street between Rhett and Howe and on Howe Street
between Moore and Leonard.
Police Chief Dove reported that NCDOT had twice turned down a request from the
City to reduce the speed limit from 35 mph to 25 mph along Moore and Howe
Streets. He stated he had contacted NCDOT and they would review the accident
rate and perform a radar check of vehicular speeds. Chief Dove pointed out that
the 35 mph speed is rarely exceeded along Moore and Howe Streets and most
accidents occur in the Wal-Mart parking lot.
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to adopt a resolution
requesting NCDOT lower the speed limit from 35 mph to 25 mph on Moore Street
between Rhett and Howe and from Howe Street between Moore and Brown Street.
Discussion
Alderman Adams stated his opposition noting that the area has a very low
occurrence of auto accidents and the reduction will create a speed trap.
Ayes:   Aldermen Powell, Barnes, Childs, Coring, Poole
Nay:   Alderman Adams
Motion carried 5-1
RESOLUTION REQUESTING ACTION BY THE NCDOT DIVISION OF HIGHWAYS
WHEREAS, the safe use of State roads and highways is of utmost importance to
not only the citizens of Southport, but also to our visitors from this great
State and other states and countries; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport have been concerned
with the safety of motor vehicles, bicyclists and pedestrians on Highway 211,
Howe and Moore Streets, through the downtown area of the City; and
WHEREAS, the speed limit on Highway 211, unless otherwise posted, is typically
35 mile per hour, which the Board is concerned is too high for specific areas
of downtown; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen respectfully request that the North Carolina
Department of Transportation perform an analysis of traffic speeds between
Rhett Street and Brown Street on NC 211.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Southport Board of Aldermen requests
that the North Carolina Department of Transportation assist the Board in
reducing the posted speed limit between Rhett and Brown Streets (SR 211) to 25
miles per hour.
This the 11th day of September, 2014.
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
ATTEST: Michele Windham, Clerk
15.   Olde Southport Water & Sewer
City Manager McDuffie reported an agreement had been reached with the Olde
Southport Homeowners Association (HOA) for acceptance by the City of the water
and sewer infrastructure.
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Powell to accept the water and
sewer system of Olde Southport upon receipt of a properly executed agreement by
Olde Southport HOA regarding its responsibility to maintain the roads together
with proper easements and deed of dedication to be approved by the city manager
and city attorney.
Ayes:      Alderman Poole, Powell, Coring, Childs, Barnes
Abstain:   Alderman Adams
Motion passed 6-0
16.   Resolution Requesting NCDOT Replace Dutchman Creek Bridge
Alderman Poole discussed a recent community meeting with the residents of the
Rivermist Subdivision and discussion of widening the Dutchman Creek Bridge for
improved safety for vehicular traffic and safety personnel. She remarked that
an earlier submittal to NCDOT for replacement of the bridge was declined due to
the Midway Road TIPP project. She pointed out that the Midway Road project had
been removed from the TIPP.
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to adopt a Resolution
requesting NCDOT replace the 2-Lane Dutchman Creek Bridge with a 4-Lane Bridge.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
RESOLUTION REQUESTING REPLACEMENT OF THE NC 211 DUTCHMAN CREEK BRIDGE
WHEREAS, the safe use of State roads and highways is of utmost importance to
not only the citizens of Southport, but also to our visitors from this great
State and other states and countries; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport have been concerned
with the safety of motor vehicles, bicyclists and pedestrians on Highway 211;
and
WHEREAS, the Dutchman Creek Bridge on Highway 211 is a narrow two-lane bridge;
and
WHEREAS, safety would be improved if the bridge and approaches were widened to
accept four lanes of traffic and bicycle paths.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Southport Board of Aldermen requests
that the North Carolina Department of Transportation widen the NC 211 Dutchman
Creek Bridge and its approaches to accept four lanes of traffic and bicycle
paths.
This the 11th day of September, 2014.
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
ATTEST: Michele Windham, Clerk
17.   Closed Session – 7:20 p.m.
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Childs to go into closed session
pursuant to G.S 143-318.11(a)(3) to consult with the City Attorney and G.S.
143-318.11(a)(5) to instruct city attorney in negotiating material terms of an
agreement to acquire Lord Street Gym and G.S. 143-318.11(a)(6) to discuss
evaluation of the City Manager.  Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Regular Session Reconvenes – 8:04
Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Childs to come out of closed
session. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Mayor Howard reported that the Board received advice from the City Attorney
regarding a letter of understanding for the Lord Street property and had a
discussion regarding the performance evaluation of the city manager.
Staff Reports
City Manager McDuffie reported that three (3) bids had been received for
replacement of the utility billing software. He stated the low bid came in
under budget and he expected implementation within seven (7) months.
City Manager McDuffie reported that prices had been received for purchase of a
sewer camera and the cost of $69,000 was under budget.
City Manager McDuffie reported on the status of the Public Restroom. He stated
that asbestos was found in the existing building and the cost for removal was
being obtained. He estimated construction to begin the end of December with
anticipated completion by April, 2015.
City Manager McDuffie reported an Emergency Services Committee meeting had been
held September 10 and the Committee was recommending replacement of the Rescue
Squad Building followed by renovations of the Police Department.
Board Comments
Alderman Barnes thanked Mr. Joe Medlin for crafting the new sign for the
Southport Police Department. Alderman Barnes indicated Mr. Medlin made the sign
for free and donated it to the City.
Alderman Poole reported a City Clean Up Day was held Saturday, September 6. She
commended the Beautification Committee for their work at Waterfront Park, on
Howe Street and at the Yacht Basin in the rain.
Recess- 8:12 p.m.
   Alderman Barnes moved to recess the meeting to Tuesday, September 16, 2014
at 6:00 p.m., second by Alderman. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:   /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
SEPTEMBER 16, 2014
RECESSED SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN   RECESSED SESSION MINUTES
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS   SEPTEMBER 16, 2014
201 E. MOORE STREET SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldemen Mary “Meezie” Childs, Nelson Adams, Todd Coring,
         Buddy Barnes, Jim Powell
ABSENT:      Alderman Mary Ellen Poole
STAFF PRESENT:   Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
Michele Windham, City Clerk
Cindy Brochure, Tourism & Economic Development Director
Vickie Potter, Community Building Coordinator
David Fox, Public Works Director         
A)   Call to Order
   Mayor Howard called the recessed meeting of September 11, 2014 back into
order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Welcome & Invocation
   Alderman Barnes welcomed everyone and gave the invocation.
C)   Approval of Agenda
   Mayor Howard requested addition of a discussion and consideration of action
on Community Building Charges and proposed ordinance change for hunting on City
of Southport property adjacent to Sunny Point.
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Powell to approve the agenda as
amended. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Howard stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
D)   Announcements
   In a follow-up to comments made September 11, 2014, Mayor Howard announced
that the City Attorney had been asked to review records relating to the 1029 N.
Howe Street building and to report back to the Board during their October
regular meeting.
   City Manager McDuffie advised the Board that the auditors, Berry, Padgett &
Chandler, PLLC, will include review of the 1029 building project as part of the
annual audit in lieu of a separate formal contract which would prolong the
process. He stated the annual audit is due for completion by the end of
October. Mayor Howard emphasized that special attention be paid to the 1029
project and a report be made, by the auditors, to the Board.
   City Manager McDuffie reported the final details are being made for holding
the November regular Board meeting at the Rivermist Subdivision Amenity Center.
   Mayor Howard announced that ElectriCities is accepting nominations to its
board of directors. He pointed out that former Alderman Paul Fisher has served
on the Board multiple times and as Board Chairman.
AGENDA
1.   Public Hearing for Zoning of 88 Acres
   Alderman Childs motioned, second by Alderman Powell to go into Public
Hearing. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   City Manager McDuffie advised the Board that the Planning Board had reviewed
the request by Wakefield Associates to assign the initial zoning classification
to approximately 88 acres on Hwy 211. He indicated the Planning Board
recommends the split zoning of Highway Commercial (HC) for approximately 33.25
acres and Planned Unit Development (PUD) for approximately 55.58 acres.
No one from the public spoke.
Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Powell to come out of Public
Hearing. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
2.   Board Action on Zoning of 88 Acres
Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Childs to adopt the Ordinance
granting the initial zoning classifications of Highway Commercial (HC) and
Planned Unit Development (PUD) for the 88 acres, consistent with the CAMA Core
Land Use Plan Future Land Use Map. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
RESOLUTION GRANTING APPLICATION FOR THE INITIAL ASSIGNMENT OF ZONING
CLASSIFICATIONS
   THAT WHEREAS, the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance, other
land use ordinances and a zoning map that control land development within both
the City’s incorporated areas and within its extraterritorial area; and
   WHEREAS, in order to promote the public health, safety and general welfare
and to promote the best interest of the city and community, it is necessary for
the City Board of Aldermen from time to time to consider appropriate revisions,
modifications and additions to the city’s zoning map; and
   WHEREAS, Oak Island Building Supply, Inc., as owner of the hereinafter
described property, petitioned the City for non-contiguous annexation of said
property and said property has now been annexed by the City; and
   WHEREAS, Wakefield Associates, Inc., on behalf of the owner, has filed an
application for initial zoning classification assignments for said 88.89 acres
of property located on the north side of NC 211 requesting that 33.25 acres be
zoned for Highway Commercial and the remaining acreage be zoned for Planned
Unit Development; and
   WHEREAS, the Planning Board has thoroughly considered this matter and has
recommended that the application for the requested zoning classifications be
granted; and
   WHEREAS, pursuant to N. C. General Statutes and city ordinances, a public
hearing, properly noticed, was held on September 16, 2014, before the Board of
Aldermen regarding this issue; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen hereby finds the application for the initial
assignment of Highway Commercial and Planned Unit Development zoning for the
property as requested by Wakefield Associates, Inc. in the application is
consistent with the Southport Unified Development Ordinance, the Southport CAMA
Core Land Use Plan and the City of Southport Transmission Facilities Agreement
mutually adopted by the City and the County of Brunswick; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that the granting of this
application is reasonable and in the public interest in that (i) the location
and the size of the tract in question lends itself to the nature of the split
zoning requested and (ii) the character of the mixture of existing commercial
and residentially developed properties in the vicinity of the property suggest
a compatibility with development that may be anticipated within the zoning
classifications to be assigned.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that the
assignment of the zoning map designations as requested by Wakefield Associates,
Inc. is hereby granted.
      This 16th day of September, 2014.
                     City of Southport
                     By: /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
3.   Waterfront Steering Committee Appointments
Mayor Howard announced that 22 applications had been received for appointment
to the Waterfront Steering Committee. He stated the Board’s consensus that
committee members should be citizens who reside in Southport. He indicated that
the Board used a ballot process for selection of the committee with 49 votes
placed and eight (8) appointments made.
Mayor Howard announced the appointments: Mr. Bill Duke, Ms. B.J. Gorman, Mr.
Tommy Harrelson, Mr. Harley Lemons, Mr. Ron Thompson, Mr. Paul Swenson, Mr.
Frank Marchetti and Mr. Paul Fisher. Mayor Howard stated an announcement would
be made regarding the Chairman of the Committee.
4.   Tour Commission Recommendation of Ordinance Update
Ms. Cindy Brochure, Tourism Director, gave an overview of the proposed
revisions to Chapter 10, Article VII For-Hire Tours of the Southport Code of
Ordinances. She reported that the requests to operate tours in Southport had
increased and there is no provision in the ordinance to regulate the number of
tours. She indicated there are currently three (3) driving tours, one (1) horse
and buggy tour, two (2) walking tours and one (1) bicycle tour. She emphasized
the safety considerations for the residents of Southport and visitors to the
city. She stated the recommendation of the Tourism Commission is to:
∙   Permit no more than 3 walking tours, 4 low-speed vehicle tours and 1 animal
drawn vehicle tour at any one time
∙   Require a valid driver’s license
∙   Conduct a criminal record check
∙   $50 application fee
∙   Each tour guide permit granted will be valid for one year and must be
renewed annually
∙   Tour must operate for 90 consecutive days or permit will be revoked
Alderman Barnes stated his opinion that the number of tours should be self-
regulating by the demand.
Alderman Adams stated he had received complaints about the number of tours and
the disruption to travel around the city.
Responding to Alderman Coring, Ms. Brochure reported the recently adopted
regulations for time and location of advertising signs for the tours had been
well received by tour operators and is being strictly enforced. She pointed out
that the Tourism Commission is charged with making recommendations and
reporting annually to the Board.
Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Powell to adopt the Ordinance
Amending Chapter 10, Article VII. Unanimous vote by an uplift of hands; motion
carried. (Ordinance on file in the Clerk’s office)
5.   Parking on Davis Street
City Manager McDuffie reported that a demonstration of the proposed diagonal
parking on Davis Street had been viewed by the Board. Concerns were raised that
the travel lane would be too close to the sidewalk. He stated that one of the
residents of Davis Street had withdrawn support for the parking change.
Consideration of the staff recommendation died for lack of a motion.
6.   Request DOT Install Crosswalks on Howe and Moore Streets in Downtown
City Manager McDuffie discussed aspects of street intersection bulb outs
proposed in the recently adopted Southport Comprehensive Pedestrian
Transportation Plan. He reported that North Carolina Department of
Transportation (NCDOT) will be resurfacing Moore and Howe Street with
completion expected prior to Memorial Day 2015. He suggested including
construction of the bulb outs along the resurfacing route. He indicated he did
not have a cost to include the bulb outs but anticipated it would deplete the
entire budget of Powell Bill funds.
Alderman Powell pointed out the need to coordinate with NCDOT to change the
truck route to Rob Gandy Boulevard to eliminate trucks using Howe and Moore
Streets. He noted that intersections with bulb outs would not accommodate the
turning radius for trucks.
Alderman Adams spoke against depletion of Powell Bill funds.
Mayor Howard acknowledged that synchronizing with NCDOT, during their
resurfacing project would be ideal. He stated his opinion that an informed
decision could not be made at this time.
Alderman Barnes stated his support for future installation of bulb outs,
pointing out that former City Planner, Amy Nelson, had proposed similar
intersection improvements.
Alderman Adams emphasized the need to prioritize street and sidewalk projects.
Alderman Coring requested marking and placement of signs identifying crosswalks
on Bay Street.
City Manager McDuffie was directed to coordinate with NCDOT for striping of
crosswalks during the resurfacing project. Too, he will obtain costs for
installation of bulb outs.
7.   Discussion & Consideration of Action on Community Building Charges
Mayor Howard stated he had received information that City of Southport
departments would be required to pay rental fees for use of the Community
Building and he stated his belief that was not the intention of the Board when
adopting the Community Building rental rates.
Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Childs that no charges be made for
internal departmental usage of the Community Building.
Discussion
Alderman Childs suggested reporting be made to the Board on the usage of the
Community Building by city departments.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
8.   Code of Ordinances Section 11-5 Proposed Amendment
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to allow hunting on the 406
acre tract of land near Sunny Point and to adopt the Ordinance Amending Chapter
11 of the Code of Ordinances.
Discussion
Alderman Adams stated his displeasure with the proposal. He discussed the
proximity to Military Ocean Terminal Sunny Point and the potential liability.
He commented that the Board had previously denied the request.
Alderman Powell pointed out that Sunny Point permitted hunting on its property.
Alderman Adams countered that Sunny Point has a designated area that is
regularly patrolled. He noted that Southport does not have the police force to
patrol the City’s hunting ground.
Alderman Coring stated he had researched the issue and he shared his
understanding that the Wildlife Commission would enforce actions on the
property.
Aye:   Aldermen Powell, Coring, Barnes, Childs
Nay:   Alderman Adams
Motion Passed 4-1
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 11 ENTITLED “OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS
PROVISIONS” OF THE CODE OF ORDINANCES
BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport that Section
11-5 of the Code of Ordinances is hereby amended to read as follows:
Sec 11-5. Shooting firearms for amusement prohibited.
No person shall fire any pistol, gun or any type of firearm or use fireworks or
pyrotechnics within the city limits, provided, however that hunting may be
permitted on the City’s 406.40 acre tract located on Hwy 87 as described in
Book 2282 at Page 305 in the Brunswick County Register of Deeds Office upon
execution of a written agreement indemnifying the City to be approved by the
City Manager.
Adopted this 16 th day of September, 2014.
                     City of Southport
                     By: /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
Staff Reports
City Manager McDuffie reported that implementation of the new utility billing
software would start in January and is expected to take seven (7) months.
City Manager McDuffie reported that there is funding budgeted for installation
of underground electric service and he is awaiting word from Brunswick Electric
Membership Corp (BEMC) as to when the installation process can begin in the
downtown area and the Yacht Basin.
City Manager McDuffie presented a staff recommendation to become a Level 2
member of the Wilmington Regional Film Commission. He stated the Commission’s
mission is to promote economic activity through recruiting film production to
the area. He discussed the benefits the city receives from filming.
Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Childs to accept staff
recommendation to join the Wilmington Regional Film Commission as a Level 2 for
an annual fee of $795.
Aye:   Aldermen Barnes, Childs, Powell, Coring
Nay:   Alderman Adams
Motion passed 4-1
Board Comments
   Mayor Howard went on record expressing displeasure with the contractor for
the Comprehensive Waterfront Project, Criser Troutman Tanner (CTT). Mayor
Howard pointed out that CTT had hired a company to do surveying work that was
not local. He stated his opinion that local vendors should be used at every
extent possible.
With no further business, Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Childs
to adjourn the meeting at 6:47 p.m. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
                                 /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk   
OCTOBER 9, 2014
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN   REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS   OCTOBER 9, 2014
201 E. MOORE STREET SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor Robert D. Howard
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Mary “Meezie” Childs,
            Nelson Adams, Todd Coring, Jim Powell, Buddy Barnes
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
   Jerry Dove, Police Chief
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   Elle Pittenger,    Load Management Coordinator
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Childs welcomed everyone and Chief Jerry Dove gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Childs led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Special Recognition
Capt. Bryan K. Anderson of Military Ocean Terminal Sunny Point was honored for
helping to save the life of a World War II veteran during the 4 th of July
Festival Parade. Capt. Anderson was presented with a key to the City and a
special resolution.
Sgt. Alisha Espinoza, who also aided in the lifesaving efforts, was unable to
attend. She will be sent a Resolution in recognition of her assistance and a
key to the City.
   Alderman Poole read the resolution.
RESOLUTION OF THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT
WHEREAS, recognitions and citations are extended to CPT Bryan K. Anderson for
directing and extending Combat Life Saver Skills to a World War II Veteran; and
WHEREAS, on the 4th of July 2014 CPT Anderson responded to the excessive
bleeding of a World War II Veteran during the North Carolina Celebration
Parade, and
WHEREAS, the Veteran’s health was maintained and ensured due to quick and
skillful response to the emergency and knowledge of Life Saver Skills; and
WHEREAS, his professionalism, calming execution and direction and providing of
assistance allowed for higher level of medical care by preventing degradation
of vital signs and stopping loss of blood; and
WHEREAS, this act of heroism deserves special recognition and commendation by
the governing board of the City of Southport.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Southport Board of Aldermen and the
citizens of this community extend sincere appreciation and special thanks to
CPT Bryan K. Anderson for his heroic actions in directing and providing Life
Saver Care to a World War II Veteran.
DULY RESOLVED THIS THE 9th Day of October 2014.
/s/ Robert Howard, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Lions Club
The Board recognized attending members of the Southport Lions Club. Alderman
Barnes read the Vision Awareness Month Proclamation.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1615_1245x1159.jpg]    
Vision Awareness Month
Proclamation
Southport Lions Club
WHEREAS, the Southport Lions Club is working to increase vision awareness,
especially among the youth through vision screening at local schools; and
WHEREAS, the Southport Lions Club collects over 1,500 pairs of glasses each
year and provides assistance to those needing, but unable to afford, eye exams
and the purchase of glasses; and
WHEREAS, the Southport Lions Club conducts vision screenings on the fourth
Thursday of each month at the New Hope Clinic, and at the Brunswick County
Health Festival in September; and
WHEREAS, the Southport Lions Club has covered the expense of cataract surgery
for 8 needy individuals over the past 2 years; and
WHEREAS, the Southport Lions Club continues to keep with the challenge Helen
Keller issued to the association in 1929 to become “knights of the blind in the
crusade against darkness;” and
WHEREAS, the Southport Lions Club, established in 1945 is composed of men and
women volunteers who dedicate their time to the betterment of our community and
aiding those in need; and
NOW THEREFORE, I, Robert Howard, Mayor of the City of Southport, NC and the
Board of Aldermen in recognition of this important service sponsored by the
Southport Lions Club, do hereby proclaim October as Vision Awareness Month.
ADOPTED, this 9th day of October 2014 by the Southport Board of Aldermen.
                     /s/ Robert Howard, Mayor      
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
E)   Public Comment
   Mr. Robert Creech, 426 W. Brunswick Street, thanked the Board and city staff
for their support and assistance with the Wooden Boat Show. Mr. Creech endorsed
the proposed time extension for transient boaters to stay at the city dock.
   Ms. Dianne Boguskie, 502 W. Brown Street, spoke to the Board about
handicapped accessibility to the Aldermen’s chambers. She also talked about the
recent water rate increase and she requested the deadline for utility payments
at the drop box located at 201 E. Moore Street be the same deadline as that at
City Hall.
Ms. Jeri Drake, 817 Cape Harbor Drive, addressed the Board about a nuisance
neighbor. She questioned if city codes were being violated and she requested
the matter be investigated. Mayor Howard directed staff to look into the
allegations and to report back to the Board.
F)   Announcements
   Mayor Howard thanked the organizers and volunteers of the Wooden Boat Show
for the outstanding event held September 27.
   Mayor Howard announced that the Wounded Warrior Ride would be held October
16 beginning at 9:30 a.m. at Waterfront Park.
   Mayor Howard announced that The Cape Fear Cruisers would be holding a
Classic Cars ‘n Rock ‘N Roll Cruise-In October 10 & 11 at the foot of Howe
Street.
   Mayor Howard announced that the Board of Aldermen November regular meeting
would be held at the Rivermist Amenity Center, 5020 J. Swain Boulevard.
Police Chief Jerry Dove introduced Southport’s newest Police Officer, Robert
Paul DeMello.
G)   Approval of Agenda
   City Manager McDuffie pointed out that plans for the proposed renovations of
the Police Department and the Rescue Squad building were available for viewing.
He asked the Board to review the conceptual drawings and add discussion of the
drawings to the agenda.
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Powell to adopt the agenda as
amended.  Unanimous vote; motion carried.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Howard stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
Riverfront Committee
Alderman Poole reported the Waterfront Steering Committee had their first
meeting October 2. The committee reviewed the project scope, the Board of
Aldermen’s expectations, discussed citizen input and set future meetings for
each Thursday at 3:30 p.m. Alderman Childs stated she had attended the October
9 meeting and clarified for the committee that the first phase of the project
is Kingsley Street to Yacht Basin.
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Coring asked for placement of Consent Agenda Item #6 onto the
regular Agenda.
   Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Powell to approve the consent
agenda as amended. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
1.   Approval of September 11, 2014 regular meeting minutes – approved
Approval of September 11, 2014 closed session minutes - approved
Approval of September 16, 2014 recessed session minutes – approved
2.   Budget Amendment #4, Installation of Spectrashield Sewer Liner – approved
3.   Budget Amendment #5, Revenue from Insurance - approved
4.   Budget Amendment #6, Accept Refund from the Army Corps of Engineers –
approved
5.   Budget Amendment #7, Upgrade Holiday Lighting – approved
6.   Budget Amendment # 8, Move a part-time position to full-time; Community
Development Specialist –  Moved to regular agenda
7.   Accept Petition for Voluntary Annexation of 1643 North Howe Street and Set
Public Hearing –  approved
               Budget Amendment #4
Fiscal Year 2014-2015
WHEREAS the Board of Aldermen for the City of Southport approved the
installation of SpectraShield liners for 99 manholes in the FY 2013-2014
budget; and
WHEREAS, the work was unable to be completed in that budget year; and
WHEREAS, the unused appropriation was returned to the Water and Sewer Fund fund
balance; and
WHEREAS, the work can be completed in the current budget year; and
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2014-2015 needs to be amended to
reflect the revenues and appropriations necessary to allow use of these funds;
and
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2014-2015 shall be
amended as follows:
WATER & SEWER FUND               Previous Amount      Increase      Amended
Amount
Revenues
Fund Balance Appropriation      $ 11,700      $ 18,300      $ 30,000
Appropriations
Capital Outlay – Facilities         $ 64,900      $ 18,300      $ 83,200
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, October 9,
2014.         
                        /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
/s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
Budget Amendment #5
Fiscal Year 2014-2015
WHEREAS the City of Southport Police Department suffered significant damage to
one of its police cruisers in an accident in July 2014; and
WHEREAS a majority of the cost of repairs was recovered via the city’s
liability insurance policy; and
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2014-2015 needs to be amended to
reflect the revenues and appropriations necessary to allow use of these funds;
and
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2014-2015 shall be
amended as follows:
 
GENERAL FUND                      Previous Amount      Increase      Amended
Amount
Revenues
Insurance Recoveries         $ 5,000      $ 3,500      $ 8,500
Appropriations
Police – R/M Vehicles         $ 5,000      $ 3,500      $ 8,500
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, October 9, 2014.
                        /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor         
/s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
Budget Amendment #6
Fiscal Year 2014-2015
WHEREAS the City of Southport has received and desires to accept a refund from
the United States Army Corps of Engineers for excess sponsor funds provided for
the waterfront revetment project undertaken during fiscal year 2013-2014 ; and
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2014-2015 needs to be amended to
reflect the revenues and appropriations necessary to allow use of these funds;
and
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2014-2015 shall be
amended as follows:
WATER & SEWER FUND            Previous Amount   Increase      Amended Amount
Revenues
Miscellaneous Revenue         $ 0      $ 11,900   $ 11,900
Appropriations
Discretionary         $ 60,000   $ 11,900   $ 71,900
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, October 9,
2014.      
                        /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor   
/s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
Budget Amendment #7
Fiscal Year 2014-2015
WHEREAS the City of Southport desires to upgrade its holiday lighting display;
and
WHEREAS additional materials are needed beyond the original $2,000 budgeted to
fulfill this goal; and
WHEREAS the governing board has sufficient discretionary funds to assign for
this purpose;
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2014-2015 shall be
amended as follows:
                                       Increase/
GENERAL FUND                   Previous Amount      (Decrease)   Amended Amount
Appropriations
Governing Body - Discretionary         $ 79,000      ($ 3,500)   $ 75,500
Appropriations
Buildings & Grounds – Departmental Supplies   $ 7,900       $ 3,500      $
11,400
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, October 9,
2014.            
                        /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor   
/s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk   
CERTIFICATE OF SUFFICIENCY
To the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North Carolina:
I, Michele Windham, City Clerk, do hereby certify that I have investigated the
attached petition and hereby find that said petition is signed by all owners of
real property lying in the area described therein in accordance with G.S. 160A-
58.1.
I further find that the area meets the standards for a noncontiguous area as
specified in G.S. 160A-58.1(b), in that:
1.   The petition includes a metes and bounds description of the area proposed
for annexation and has attached a map showing the proposed satellite area in
relation to the primary corporate limits of the City of Southport.
2.   The petition includes the names and addresses of all owners of real
property lying in the area described therein.
3.   The petition includes the signatures of all owners of real property lying
in the area described therein, except those not required to sign by G.S. 160A-
58.1(a).
4.   The nearest point on the proposed satellite corporate limits is no more
than three (3) miles from the primary corporate limits of the City of
Southport.
5.   No point on the proposed satellite corporate limits is closer to the
primary corporate limits of any municipality other than the City of Southport.
6.   The satellite area is so situated that the City of Southport will be able
to provide the same services as are provided within its primary corporate
limits;
7.   To the extent that the proposed satellite area contains any portion of a
subdivision, the entire subdivision is included;
8.   By Act of the North Carolina General Assembly, the City of Southport is
not subject to the 10% limitation of G.S. 160A-58.1(b)(5).
9.   The petitioner has not declared vested rights.
In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the seal of the
City of Southport, this   9th  day of October, 2014.
/s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
RESOLUTION FIXING DATE OF PUBLIC HEARING ON QUESTION OF ANNEXATION PURSUANT TO
G.S. 160A-58.2
WHEREAS, a petition requesting annexation of the non-contiguous area described
herein has been received; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen has by resolution directed the City Clerk to
investigate the sufficiency of the petition; and
WHEREAS, certification by the City Clerk as to the sufficiency of the petition
has been made;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport, North Carolina that:
Section 1.   A public hearing on the question of annexation of the non-
contiguous area described herein will be held at the Rivermist Amenity Center
located at 5020 J. Swain Boulevard in Southport, N.C. at 6:00 p.m. on November
13, 2014.
Section 2.   The area proposed for annexation is described as follows:
Being all of that certain parcel or tract of land lying and being in Smithville
Township, Brunswick County, North Carolina and being more particularly
described as follows:
Beginning at an Iron Pipe found in the western right of way of North Carolina
Highway 211 (150 ft. R/W), said Iron Pipe being the Northeast corner of the
lands claimed in Deed book 2721, Page 69; thence leaving aforesaid right of way
and with the northern line of the above referenced deed, S 70°02'59"W, 199.78
feet to a Rebar Found, the northwest corner of the lands claimed in the above
referenced deed and the northeast corner of the City of Southport as claimed in
Deedbook 252, Page 50, thence continuing, S 70°02'59"W, 99.94 feet and with the
northern line of the City of Southport to an Iron Pipe found in the eastern
line of Southport Tidewater WMS, LLC; thence with aforesaid eastern line, N
23°10'01"W,199.93 feet to an Iron Pipe Found, the southwest corner of the lands
of James F. & Sarah Faircloth as claimed in Deedbook 368, Page 661; thence with
the southern line of Faircloth, N 70°00'00"E, 299.86 feet to an Iron Pipe found
in the western right of way of North Carolina Highway 211; thence with said
right of way, S 23° 07'23"E, 200.18 feet to the place and point of beginning,
containing 1.37 acres according to a survey by Norris & Ward Land Surveyors,
P.A. dated July 25th, 2014 to which reference is made for a more full and
accurate description.
Section 3.   Notice of the public hearing shall be published once in the State
Port Pilot, a newspaper having general circulation in the City of Southport,
North Carolina, at least ten (10) days prior to the date of the public hearing.
   /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
AGENDA
8.   Resolution Supporting Lion’s Club October Vision Awareness Month
Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Adams to adopt the Resolution
Supporting Lion’s Club October Vision Awareness Month. Unanimous vote; motion
carried.
9.   Update on the Audit of the 1029 Building
City Attorney Mike Isenberg presented a report on his examination of Board
meeting minutes and other documents pertaining to the renovation of City Hall.
He discussed the adoption of the plan for use, expenditure approval, role of
the Space Planning Committee, and the company contracted to do the work. He
stated that the hiring of Turner Contracting Company, who employs Alderman
Powell’s son-in-law, was not prohibited as a conflict of interest. Attorney
Isenberg pointed out that the renovation cost exceeded $30,000, that informal
bids should have been obtained and a contract should have been executed before
work commenced. He added that the auditing company Berry, Padgett and Chandler
would be providing a financial audit report on the project with the annual
audit.
10.   Load Management Switches on New Construction
Elle Pittenger, Load Management Coordinator, presented a load management
comparison of communities with mandated load management switches for new
construction and the associated cost.  (Comparison included as Attachment #1)
City Manager McDuffie pointed out that those communities that mandate the
switches on new construction have lower electric retail costs. He recommended
adoption of an amendment to Chapter 19, Article V of the Code of Ordinances to
mandate placement of load management switches on electric water heaters, heat
pumps and HVAC units installed in new residential construction.
Alderman Adams spoke against mandating the switches and he advocated better
educating Southport electric customers to the Load Management Program.
Alderman Barnes shared his experiences with load management and spoke in favor
of requiring the switches during construction.
Mayor Howard spoke in support of amending the Ordinance.
Alderman Powell stated his load management switches have never interfered with
his electric demands and his bills are lower than that of a neighbor who does
not make use of the switches.
Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Powell to amend Chapter 19,
Article V Electrical Service as presented by staff.
Discussion
Alderman Adams repeated his opposition.
Alderman Poole agreed with Alderman Adams and she stressed informing new
construction applicants of the option.
Alderman Powell stated his opinion that mandating the switches would be a step
toward reducing the overall electric rate.
Alderman Childs emphasized the need to improve getting the benefits of
participating in the Load Management Program out to customers.
Vote   Aye:   Aldermen Barnes, Powell
   Nay:   Aldermen Adams, Poole, Childs, Coring
Motion Failed 4 – 2
11.   Consideration of Time Extension for Transient Boaters at the City Pier
Alderman Barnes presented a proposal to amend the current 24 hour stay policy
for transient boaters at the Yacht Basin City Dock. He contended that
permitting a stay of 48 hours would allow boaters to enjoy the amenities of
Southport. He noted that boaters would continue to check in at time of arrival
with the Police Department.
Alderman Barnes moved, second by Alderman Powell to amend the policy and allow
transient boaters to stay for 48 hours at the City Dock. Unanimous vote by a
show of hands; motion carried.
12.   Budget Amendment #8 to move a part-time position to full-time Community
Development Specialist
City Manager McDuffie explained the request for Budget Amendment #8 to expand
the part-time planning position vacated by Bob Grant to a full-time position
with additional duties to include special projects. He indicated the salary
proposed would be $45,000 annually. Responding to a query by Alderman Coring,
City Manager McDuffie stated that funding for the position would be 50%
Planning/Code Enforcement/Inspections and 50% divided equally into General
Fund, Water and Sewer funds. He pointed out that there are multiple city
projects underway simultaneously and the city is experiencing an annual growth
rate of 6% in development.
Alderman Coring opposed creating an unbudgeted position. He talked about the
cost for benefits and he recommended keeping the position part-time or using
someone from the League of Municipalities.
Alderman Adams expressed his opposition to a full-time position citing the
Board’s conservative stance at budget time and the recent staff restructuring
aimed at assisting the city manager. He raised concerns that long time
employees’ salaries had not been adjusted.
Mayor Howard spoke in support of the full-time position noting the demands the
Board has put on the manager and staff.
Alderman Poole discussed the surge in annexations, development and the
incomparable skill set Mr. Grant possessed that will be difficult to replace
with a new hire.
Responding to a query from Alderman Powell, City Manager McDuffie explained
that the part-time salary for the position had been budgeted for fiscal year
2014-2015
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Childs to approve Budget Amendment
#8.
Aye:   Aldermen Poole, Childs, Powell
Nay:   Aldermen Adams, Coring, Barnes
Aye:   Mayor Howard to break tie
Motion Carries 4-3
Budget Amendment #8
Fiscal Year 2014-2015
WHEREAS the City of Southport desires to increase responsibilities of a part-
time planning position recently vacated; and
WHEREAS the new job duties would include special projects to benefit operations
of the General Fund and both enterprise funds,
WHEREAS the current part-time position would be expanded to full time with
annual pay of $45,000 plus fringe benefits; and
WHEREAS monies to support the new position will be provided in part by
appropriations in the fiscal year 2014-2015 approved budget;
WHEREAS sufficient discretionary monies are available to fund the remainder;
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2014-2015 shall be
amended as follows:
                                       Increase/
GENERAL FUND                  Previous Amount      (Decrease)   Amended Amount
Appropriations
Administration - Discretionary         $ 15,000   ($ 2,600)      $ 12,400
Appropriations
Administration – Full-Time Employees      $ 60,600    $ 5,000      $ 65,600
Administration – 401k Retirement         $ 3,000    $ 200      $ 3,200
Administration – FICA            $ 4,600    $ 400      $ 5,000
Administration – LGERS Retirement      $ 4,300    $ 400      $ 4,700
Administration – Group Health         $ 28,600    $ 1,200      $ 29,800
Planning & Inspections – Full-Time Employees   $ 146,300    $ 15,000      $
161,300
Planning & Inspections - Part-Time Employees   $ 37,000   ($ 24,400)      $
12,600
Planning & Inspections – 401k Retirement      $ 7,300     $ 700      $ 8,000
Planning & Inspections – FICA         $ 14,000   ($ 600)      $ 13,400
Planning & Inspections – LGERS Retirement   $ 10,300    $ 1,100      $ 11,400
Planning & Inspections – Group Health      $ 32,700     $ 3,600      $ 36,300
ELECTRIC FUND                     Previous Amount   (Decrease)   Amended
Amount                                                                                     Appropriations
Discretionary            $ 50,000   ($ 7,200)      $ 42,800
Appropriations
Full-Time Employees            $ 211,400    $ 5,000      $ 216,400
401k Retirement            $ 10,600     $ 200      $ 10,800
FICA               $ 16,200    $ 400      $ 16,600
LGERS Retirement            $ 14,900    $ 400      $ 15,300
Group Health            $ 97,000    $ 1,200      $ 98,200
WATER & SEWER FUND     Previous Amount   (Decrease)   Amended
Amount                                                                                    Appropriations
Discretionary            $ 60,000   ($ 7,200)      $ 52,800
Appropriations
Full-Time Employees            $ 341,800    $ 5,000      $ 346,800
401k Retirement            $ 17,100    $ 200      $ 17,300
FICA               $ 26,100    $ 400      $ 26,500
LGERS Retirement            $ 24,200     $ 400      $ 24,600
Group Health            $ 148,900    $ 1,200      $ 150,100
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, October 9,
2014            
                        /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor   
/s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
…………………………………………
Mayor Howard made comments about the recent water rate increase. He pointed out
that the city purchases water from Brunswick County and the County raises the
rate the city pays by 2 – 3% annually; i.e., to purchase 3,000 gallons of water
in 2005 was $16.50, 2007 - $19.15 and 2014 - $23.95. He discussed the switch
from drawing water from city wells to the purchase of water from the County due
to an abundance of iron and minerals in the well water. He expressed regret
that the City water rates had not been incrementally raised to keep up with the
cost.
Alderman Barnes noted that a city water rate increase had not been done since
2006. He recommended reviewing the rates on an annual basis.
Aldermen Childs and Coring emphasized the need to better notify customers of
rate increases.
Mayor Howard reported that the audit would not be completed by the October 31
due date. The Board tasked the city manager with determining why the audit was
going to be late and to put procedures in place to assure that future audits
would be completed on time.
City Manager McDuffie reported that the former Building Inspections/Code
Enforcement building was scheduled for demolition during the week of October
13. He indicated construction bids for the new public restrooms would be
obtained in November, construction would begin in January 2015 and the
restrooms would open to the public in April or May. He stated the cost for the
facility is anticipated to be under the formal bid threshold. He added that he
expects construction on the Rescue Squad renovation project to begin in May or
June 2015 and construction of the Police Department renovation project to begin
in July 2015.
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Adams to adopt the Resolutions In
Recognition of Capt. Bryan K. Anderson and Sgt. Alisha Espinoza. Unanimous
vote; motion carried.
Closed Session – 7:29
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to go into closed session
pursuant to G.S 143-318.11(a)(1) to prevent the disclosure of information that
is privileged or confidential under state law and G.S. 143-318.11(a)(6) for
discussion of personnel issues. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Regular Session Reconvenes – 8:18
Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Powell to come out of closed
session. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Mayor Howard reported the Board heard from the city’s representative to the
North Carolina Eastern Power Agency (NCEMPA) regarding the sale of assets and
they discussed personnel matters with the City Manager.
Discussion of EMS & Police Renovation Plans
   The Board discussed the orientation and configuration of the Aldermen’s dais
as proposed in the provided drawing. Per majority of the Board, orientation to
remain as currently positioned and configured in a semi-circle with addition of
a 6’6” wall at the end of the dais to prevent the public from walking behind
Board members.
   The Board discussed the proposed budget and time frame for the renovation
projects. 
   Alderman Adams and Coring had a contentious discussion about the use of Fire
Headquarters by other city departments.
Adjournment- 8:56 p.m.
   Alderman Childs moved to adjourn the meeting, second by Alderman Barnes.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
                        /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:   /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
NOVEMBER 13, 2014
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN        REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
RIVERMIST AMENITY CENTER NOVEMBER 13, 2014
5020 J. SWAIN BOULEVARD  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor Robert D. Howard
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Mary “Meezie” Childs,
            Nelson Adams, Todd Coring, Jim Powell, Buddy Barnes
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
   Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   Jerry Dove, Police Chief
   Vickie Potter, Community Building Coordinator
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Coring welcomed everyone and Chief Jerry Dove gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Coring led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Special Recognition
   Ms. Shirley Wilson, Chairman of the Friends of the North Carolina Maritime
Museum at Southport, read a resolution recognizing the timely and efficient
actions of the Southport Police Department when responding to a theft on
October 9, 2014. The resolution recognized Chief Jerry Dove, Corporal Melissa
Hinnant, Sergeant Mike Williams and Patrolman Paul Rockenbach. (Resolution on
file in the Clerk’s office)
E)   Public Comment
   Ms. Roberta Dosher, 210 W. Moore Street, asked for consideration of a 4-way
stop at W. Moore Street and Caswell Avenue and a 3-way stop at Bay Street and
Caswell Avenue. She expressed her concerns about pedestrian safety and sight
distances at the intersections, noting an increase in traffic and excessive
speed in the area. Ms. Dosher presented a petition to the Board with 32
signatures in support of the request.
   Mr. Gary Claussen, 102 S. Fodale Avenue, requested consideration of reducing
the speed limit from 45 to 35 on an approximately 3/10th of a mile section of
North Howe Street between River Road and Tidewater Plaza. He stated the
reduction would permit golf carts to travel to the many businesses on that
portion of Howe Street; 7 restaurants, 10 retail businesses, 15 service
facilities, 3 medical centers. He contended that the speed limit reduction
would reduce emissions and residents’ fuel costs. Mr. Claussen presented a
petition with 17 signatures in support of the speed limit reduction.
Mayor Howard referred Ms. Dosher and Mr. Claussen’s concerns to the Police
Department and the Traffic & Transportation Committee for study and
recommendation to the Board.
F)   Approval of Agenda
   Mayor Howard requested addition of a Resolution recognizing a Snowbird
event, consideration of a flag pole at City Hall and removal of Item 14, Closed
Session from the agenda.
Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Poole to approve the Agenda as
amended. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Howard stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
G.   Announcements
Alderman Barnes announced that the Southport Tourism Department and Southport
Marina were hosting a reception Friday, November 14, 2014 at 3:00 p.m. to
welcome a group of 20 boaters traveling the Intracoastal Waterway to Florida.
The Snowbird Rally will be held at the Southport Marina through the weekend.
Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Coring to accept the Proclamation.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
CITY OF SOUTHPORT
PROCLAMATION
WHEREAS, on Friday, November 14, the City of Southport will host a wine and
cheese reception to welcome the Sail 2014 Snowbird Rally; and
WHEREAS, the Snowbird Rally is an annual journey south along the Intracoastal
Waterway (ICW) by longtime and aspiring “cruisers”; and
WHEREAS, this year’s rally launched November 1 in Hampton, Virginia and will
conclude December 15 in Miami, Florida; and
WHEREAS, the “cruisers” make major and intermediate stops along the way; and
WHEREAS, Southport, North Carolina is a 2014 intermediate stop.
NOW  THEREFORE, by virtue of authority vested in me, as Mayor of Southport and
on behalf of our citizens, I do hereby extend to the Snowbird Rally, a most
cordial and sincere welcome to our City.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I do hereby set my hand and cause the corporate seal of the
City of Southport, NC to be affixed this 13th day of November, 2014.
                              /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor   
/s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
Mayor Howard announced that the Charles Dickens Festival would be held November
29, Winterfest events begin December 4 and the Christmas Fire Engine Parade
would be held December 12, 6:30 p.m.
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to approve the consent
agenda. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
1.   Approval of October 9, 2014 regular meeting minutes – approved
Approval of October 9, 2014 closed session minutes - approved
AGENDA
2.   Public Hearing: CAMA Core Land Use Plan
Alderman Childs motioned, second by Alderman Poole to go into Public Hearing.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Jacob Vares, Cape Fear Council of Government (COG), presented an overview of
the process to update the Plan. He stated he worked closely with Mr. Bob Grant
and city staff, public engagement was pursued via on-line questionnaires with
over 100 responses, brochures were placed throughout the city and public
engagement sessions were held. He stated the Plan is a play book for land use
decisions and used heavily by planning boards. He indicated the Plan, upon
adoption by the City, would be presented to the Coastal Resource Commission
(CRC) for adoption. (Plan available for review in the Clerk’s office).
There were no public comments.
Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Childs to come out of Public
Hearing. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
3.   Consideration of Adoption of the Southport CAMA Core Land Use Plan
Alderman Barnes, a Planning Board liaison and former Planning Board member,
stated his appreciation of the efforts put into the update of the Plan by city
staff, the Planning Board and COG. Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman
Powell to adopt the Resolution of Adoption of the 2015 CAMA Core Land Use Plan.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
RESOLUTION OF ADOPTION OF THE 2015 CAMA CORE LAND USE PLAN
WHEREAS, beginning in January of 2013 and culminating in September of 2014, the
City of Southport Planning Board, with the assistance of the Cape Fear Council
of Governments, conducted an open, thorough, conscientious and methodical
review and update of the City of Southport’s 2007 CAMA Core Land Use Plan; and
WHEREAS, having finalized the task it was charged with by the Southport Board
of Aldermen to guide, direct and complete the CAMA Core Land Use Plan update
process, the Southport Planning Board, a meeting conducted September 18, 2014,
approved a Resolution recommending adoption of the 2015 CAMA Core Land Use Plan
and forwarded it to the Board of Aldermen for consideration and appropriate
action; and
WHEREAS, following a Public Hearing conducted at a regular meeting of the Board
of Aldermen on November 13, 2014, the Southport Board of Aldermen found the
policies and maps contained within the draft 2015 CAMA Core Land Use Plan to be
consistent with the City’s desired vision for the future and officially adopted
said plan as presented; and
WHEREAS, the adopted plan will now be submitted as required by state law to the
Wilmington District Planner for the Division of Coastal Management under the
North Carolina Department of Environmental and Natural Resources and forwarded
to the Coastal Resources Commission (CRC) for consideration and appropriate
action; and
WHEREAS, following ratification by the Coastal Resources Commission (CRC), a
certified copy of the 2015 City of Southport CAMA Core Land Use Plan shall be
forwarded to the Office of Ocean and Coastal Resource Management (OCRM) for
federal approval.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the City of Southport Board of Aldermen
hereby adopts the 2015 City of Southport CAMA Core Land Use Plan; and it is
further resolved that the City Manager or his designee is hereby authorized to
submit the adopted Plan to the State for certification as described above.
DULY ADOPTED, this the 13th day of November,
2014.                                                /s/ Robert D. Howard,
Mayor
ATTEST:    /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
4.   Public Hearing: Request for Non-Contiguous Annexation of 1643 N. Howe
Street
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Childs to go into Public
Hearing. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   There were no comments from the public.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Childs to come out of Public
Hearing. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
5.   Board Action on Annexation of 1643 N. Howe Street
   City Attorney, Mike Isenberg, stated the property meets all statutory
standards for annexation into the City of Southport city limits.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to adopt the Ordinance
to Extend the Corporate Limits of the City of Southport, North Carolina.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
AN ORDINANCE TO EXTEND THE CORPORATE LIMITS OF THE
            CITY OF SOUTHPORT, NORTH CAROLINA
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen has been petitioned under G.S. 160A-58.1 to
annex the area described below; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen has by resolution directed the City Clerk to
investigate the sufficiency of the petition; and
WHEREAS, the City Clerk has certified the sufficiency of the petition and a
public hearing on the question of this annexation was held at the Rivermist
Amenity Center, 5020 J. Swain Boulevard, Southport, NC 28461 at 6:00 pm on
November 13, 2014, after due notice by publication on October 29, 2014; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen finds that the area described therein meets the
standards of G.S. 160A-58.1(b), to wit:
a.   The nearest point on the proposed satellite corporate limits is not more
than three
(3) miles from the primary corporate limits of the City of Southport;
b.   No point on the proposed satellite corporate limits is closer to the
primary corporate limits of any other city than to the City of Southport;
c.   The area described is so situated that the City of Southport will be able
to
provide the same services within the proposed satellite corporate limits that
it
provides within the primary corporate limits;
d.   No subdivision, as defined in G.S. 160A-376, will be fragmented by this
proposed
annexation;
e.   By Act of the North Carolina General Assembly, the City of Southport is
not subject to the 10% limitation of G.S. 160A-58.1(b)(5); and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that the petition has been signed
by all the owners of real property in the area who are required by law to sign;
and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that the petition is otherwise
valid, and that the public health, safety and welfare of the City and of the
area proposed for annexation will be best served by annexing the area
described;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport, North Carolina that:
Section 1. By virtue of the authority granted by G.S. 160A-58.2, the following
described non-contiguous territory is hereby annexed and made part of the City
of Southport as of November 13, 2014:
Being all of that certain parcel or tract of land lying and being in Smithville
Township, Brunswick County, North Carolina and being more particularly
described as follows:
Beginning at an Iron Pipe found in the western right of way of North Carolina
Highway 211 (150 ft. R/W), said Iron Pipe being the Northeast corner of the
lands claimed in Deedbook 2721, Page 69; thence leaving aforesaid right of way
and with the northern line of the above referenced deed, S 70°02'59"W, 199.78
feet to a Rebar Found, the northwest corner of the lands claimed in the above
referenced deed and the northeast corner of the City of Southport as claimed in
Deedbook 252, Page 50, thence continuing, S 70°02'59"W, 99.94 feet and with the
northern line of the City of Southport to an Iron Pipe found in the eastern
line of Southport Tidewater WMS, LLC; thence with aforesaid eastern line, N
23°10'01"W,199.93 feet to an Iron Pipe Found, the southwest corner of the lands
of James F. & Sarah Faircloth as claimed in Deedbook 368, Page 661; thence with
the southern line of Faircloth, N 70°00'00"E, 299.86 feet to an Iron Pipe found
in the western right of way of North Carolina Highway 211; thence with said
right of way, S 23° 07'23"E, 200.18 feet to the place and point of beginning,
containing 1.37 acres according to a survey by Norris & Ward Land Surveyors,
P.A. dated July 25th, 2014 to which reference is made for a more full and
accurate description.
Section 2. Upon and after November 13, 2014, the above described territory and
its citizens and property shall be subject to all debts, laws, ordinances and
regulations in force in the   City of Southport and shall be entitled to the
same privileges and  benefits as other parts of the City of Southport. Said
territory  shall be subject to municipal taxes according to G.S. 160A-58.10.
Section 3. The Mayor of the City of Southport shall   cause to be recorded in
the office of the Register of Deeds of Brunswick County and in  the office of
the Secretary of State at Raleigh, North Carolina, an accurate map of the
annexed territory, described in Section 1 above, together with a duly certified
copy of this ordinance. Such a map shall also be delivered to the Brunswick
County Board of Elections, as required by G.S. 163-288.1.
Adopted this 13th day of November, 2014.
                                                                                               City
of Southport
                                                                                               
/s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
6.   Lease Agreement with Historic Society for Old Jail
City Manager McDuffie advised the Board that consideration of the Old Jail
lease would be deferred to the December meeting to allow for required
advertisement.
7.   Maritime Museum Expansion Project Update
Ms. Mary Strickland, Branch Manager, North Carolina Maritime Museum at
Southport gave an update on the Maritime Museum Expansion Project. She pointed
out the 10 year Concession Agreement between the City and the Museum had been
signed by all required governmental entities, allowing Phase II of the Museum
expansion to proceed. She stated that, as with Phase I, there would be no debt
incurred for the estimated $300,000 project. She indicated the preliminary fund
raising had begun and the Public Capital Campaign would begin January 1, 2015.
Ms. Strickland thanked the Board for the many years of friendship to the
Maritime Museum. 
8.   Duke Sewer Extension
   Item deferred.
9.   ABC Board Request to Fund Educational Program
Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Coring to authorize an additional
$1,000 to the Drug & Alcohol Abstinence Program of Brunswick County by the
Southport ABC Board.
Discussion
Alderman Adams stated his opinion the ABC Board should be granted an additional
$2,000 to fulfill the original request for $3,000.
Ayes:   Aldermen Barnes, Coring, Poole, Childs, Powell
Abstained:   Alderman Adams
Motion Passed 5-1
Alderman Adams motioned to give $2,000 to the ABC Board. Motion died for lack
of a second.
10.   Planting of Oak Trees on Garrison Lawn
Alderman Childs motioned, second by Alderman Poole to authorize the city
manager to seek approval from the North Carolina State Historic Preservation
Office (SHPO) for planting two (2) Live Oak trees on the lawn of Fort Johnston
with funds from Downtown Southport Inc. (DSI) in memory of Ann Duke. Unanimous
vote; motion carried.
11.   Assist Oak Island with Construction of Park
Mayor Howard discussed the request for assistance paying expenses incurred for
repairs and upgrades at Bill Smith Park by Oak Island Mayor Betty Wallace. He
stated his support of the request and suggested Southport contribute 1/3 of the
approximately $14,000 cost.
Aldermen Adams, Barnes and Coring stated they could not endorse the request.
Alderman Poole indicated she had mixed feelings about the request. She pointed
out that Oak Island has been a good neighbor and supportive of the City in many
endeavors.
12.   Proposal to install Seals on City Buildings
City Manager McDuffie explained a suggestion had been made to place the
Southport City Seal on all city buildings. A listing of buildings, seal type,
seal size and cost was provided;
Southport Seals
Building         Location of Seal            Seal Style      Seal
Size      Cost
City Hall         Stair Tower facing Howe St.         Metal      7 ft.
Dia.      $ 539
         Top of stair tower facing Howe         Metal      4 ft. Dia.      $
176
         Stair Tower facing 11th St.
          (Parking Entrance)            Metal      7 ft. Dia.      $ 539
Police/Aldermen’s      Front Porch facing Howe above
Chamber       historic sign            HDU      2 ft. Dia.      $ 320
Community Building      Front Porch facing tennis courts         HDU      4 ft.
Dia.      $ 1,280
Public Services      Brick Wall facing Howe St.         Metal      4 ft.
Dia.      $ 176
Gymnasium      Adjacent to Doors facing Atlantic       Metal      4 ft.
Dia.      $ 176
Parks and Rec.      Adjacent to Doors facing Atlantic      Metal      4 ft.
Dia.      $ 176
Public Toilets      Above drinking fountains facing               
          Nash Street            HDU      2' 6" Dia.      $ 500
Jaycees Building      In pediment facing Fodale Ave.         Metal      4 ft.
Dia.      $ 176
Lowe White Park      Side of building visible from
          Leonard St.            Metal      4 ft. Dia.      $ 176   
11 signs for $4,234 (20% discount for total package $3, 388)                  $
4,234
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Powell to approve the request for
funds to put seals on city buildings as identified with addition of the W.
Moore Street Community Building Annex and the rear of the Police Department.
Unanimous vote by an uplift of hands; motion carried.
City Manager McDuffie recommended installation of a ship mast type flag pole at
City Hall. Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to approve
expenditure of up to $3,000 to purchase a flag pole. Unanimous vote; motion
carried.
13.   Lord Street Gym Update
Mayor Howard reported that discussions with Brunswick Community College
continue regarding acquisition of the Lord Street Gym.
Staff Reports
   The Clerk read an e-mail response from Karen Fussell, North Carolina
Department of Transportation (NCDOT) regarding the city’s request for widening
the NC211 Dutchman Creek Bridge;
   The referenced bridge is Brunswick 24. Current statistics are as follows:
   Sufficiency Rating – 52.19 (out of 100). Must be < 50 to qualify for federal
replacement.
   Functionally Obsolete, not structurally deficient.
   Originally built in 1922, rehabilitated in 1952.
   Deck, Superstructure and Substructure ratings are all “5” which is fair.
   The bridge is not posted less than legal load.
This project is included in R-5021, widening of NC 211. Under this project, the
current 37.5’ long bridge is scheduled to be replaced with 140’ long dual
bridges. Project is currently on track for let in 2021.
If this bridge required widening prior to the widening of NC 211, I would
estimate a replacement cost in the range of $3-4M.
Another point is that once the Long Beach Road Extension Project is completed,
traffic will not be as heavy on this section of roadway.
Board Comments
All members conveyed gratitude to the Rivermist residents for hosting the Board
meeting.
Alderman Poole stated her appreciation to staff for the Board’s detailed agenda
packets and staff reports.
Alderman Coring thanked the Parks & Recreation and Tourism Departments for
holding Halloween events.
Recess- 7:15 p.m.
   Alderman Coring moved to recess the meeting to Tuesday, November 18, 2014,
4:00 p.m. in the Aldermen’s Chambers, 201 E. Moore Street. Second by Alderman
Powell.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
                        /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:   /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
NOVEMBER 18, 2014
RECESSED MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN                       RECESSED MEETING MINUTES
NOVEMBER 18, 2014                       4:00 P.M.
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS (201 E. MOORE STREET) SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Jim Powell, Mary “Meezie” Childs, Todd Coring,
         Nelson Adams, Mary Ellen Poole, Buddy Barnes
STAFF PRESENT:   Kerry McDuffie, City Manager   
         Michele Windham, City Clerk
         Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
A.   Call to Order - 4:00 p.m.
   Mayor Howard called the continuation of the November 13, 2014 regular
meeting to order at 4:00 p.m.
B.   Invocation
   Alderman Coring welcomed everyone and pronounced the invocation.
C.   Announcements
   Mayor Howard announced Shop With A Cop to be held Saturday, December 13.
D.   Agenda
    Mayor Howard listed the agenda items to be considered:
∙   Duke Progress Energy request for sewer service
∙   Brunswick County Proposed Sewer Service Agreements Amendment
∙   Discussion of sewer capacity issues
∙   Christmas bonus for city employees
∙   Closed Session for a personnel matter
1.   Duke Progress Energy
   City Manager McDuffie explained a request made by Duke Progress Energy for
sewer service outside the City’s corporate limits to Duke Energy’s Brunswick
Nuclear Plant (BNP). He pointed out that City policy requires annexation unless
the Board waives the requirement, in order to receive city services but Duke
Progress Energy lobbies that annexation of the BNP is not practical. City
Manager McDuffie discussed the advantages of providing the BNP with sewer
service. He indicated the land and building values of approximately $44M are
set by the State. At the city’s current tax rate Duke Progress Energy would pay
$109,000 annually for property taxes if annexed into the city. He stated that
staff recommends negotiating an agreement with Duke Progress Energy to provide
sewer without annexation and, in lieu of property taxes, an amount equal to the
amount of taxes be charged to Duke Progress Energy for as long as the BNP
receives the service. City Manager McDuffie indicated Duke Progress Energy
would be required to pay impact fees in the amount of $3M and incur the cost of
connecting to the sewer system.
   Responding to questions, City Attorney Isenberg indicated the City is not
obligated to provide sewer service and any agreement in lieu of annexation
would be treated like a contract for services.   
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to authorize the Utility
Committee and the City Manager to negotiate a contract with Duke Progress
Energy and bring the proposed contract to the Board for consideration.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
2.   Brunswick County Proposed Sewer Service Agreements Amendment
   City Manager McDuffie explained a proposed sewer service agreements
amendment from Brunswick County;
∙   The County would assume remaining debt on Sandy Lane pump station and 16”
force main; approximately $596,000
∙   Upon assumption of debt, City would deed and dedicate pump station and
force main to County
∙   City would agree to amend the limits of the Sewer Service Area to the
limits of the City of Southport ETJ (extra-territorial jurisdiction)
   The City Manager stated staff could not recommend amending the current Sewer
Service Agreements with Brunswick County.
   Alderman Powell pointed out that the proposed amendment would inhibit
Southport’s growth.
   No action taken on the proposal.
3.   Sewer Capacity
   City Manager McDuffie reported that the city’s sewer capacity limit of
500,000 gallons would be taxed if Duke Progress Energy was provided sewer
service. He suggested the Utility Committee and staff examine alternatives for
increasing the sewer capacity. Board consensus to accept the City Manager’s
recommendation.
4.   Christmas Bonus for City Employees
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Poole to give Christmas bonuses
to city employees; $175 for full-time employees and $125 for part-time
employees. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
5.   Closed Session – 4:27 p.m.
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Powell to go into Closed
Session pursuant to G.S. 143-318.11(a)(6) for discussion of personnel issues.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Regular Session Reconvened – 4:50 p.m.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Childs to come out of Closed
Session. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Mayor Howard reported the Board received comments from the City Manager
pertaining to a personnel matter. No action was taken.   
Adjournment
   Alderman Powell motioned, seconded by Alderman Childs to adjourn the meeting
at 4:52 p.m.  Unanimous vote; motion carried.
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
DECEMBER 11, 2014
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING DECEMBER 11, 2014
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor Robert D. Howard
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Mary “Meezie” Childs,
            Nelson Adams, Todd Coring, Jim Powell, Buddy Barnes
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
   Jerry Dove, Police Chief
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   John Allen, Community Development Specialist
   Vickie Potter, Community Building Coordinator
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Powell welcomed everyone and Chief Jerry Dove gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Powell led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Howard stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
D)   Announcements
   There were no announcements.
E)   Public Comment
   No one spoke.   
F)   Special Recognition
   Alderman Poole recognized South Brunswick High School student, Caroline
Peoples, who was attending the meeting, taking notes and photographs for a
school project, “How the Government Operates.”
   Alderman Barnes recognized Southport Marina for being named one of the 25
best marinas in all of North America and featured in Power and Motoryachts
Magazine .
   Police Chief Dove recognized and thanked the Beautification Committee for
decorating the Police Department for the holidays.
   City Manager McDuffie introduced Mr. John Allen who has joined city staff as
the Community Development Specialist.
Waterfront Steering Committee
Mr. Tommy Harrelson, Chairman, Waterfront Steering Committee, gave a brief
summation of the progress the Committee has made to date;
∙   Have been holding weekly meetings; have had excellent attendance by members
∙   Have engaged public; many people attending meetings and speaking to the
committee
∙   Have collaborated with the Beautification Committee on design change for
street lights
∙   Have performed a waterfront walk
∙   Worked with consultant to develop a questionnaire to be distributed in the
January utility bills
∙   Have scheduled a public meeting in January
City Manager McDuffie advised that the Committee had referred the Street Light
Proposal to a subcommittee.    
G)   Approval of Agenda
   Mayor Howard requested addition to the agenda of consideration of bids for
construction of the public restrooms.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Childs to approve the agenda as
amended.  Unanimous vote; motion carried.
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Childs to approve the consent
agenda. Unanimous vote; motion carried.   
   1.   Approval of Minutes for November 13, 2014 regular meeting minutes –
approved
       Approval of Minutes for November 18, 2014 recessed meeting minutes –
approved
      Approval of Minutes for November 18, 2014 closed session minutes –
approved
   2.   Approval of Southport participating in the Regional Hazard Mitigation
Plan – approved
AGENDA
3.   Project Update Beautification Committee
Ms. Shirley Snyder, Chairman, Beautification Committee, gave a PowerPoint
presentation of the 2014 accomplishments of the Committee, and made the
following recommendations:
1.   The city adds the landscaped triangle at NC 87/211 to its regular mowing
schedule.
2.   Requests assistance from City staff to lay pavers in multiple planting
areas; Live Oak planters in the 100 block of S. Howe Street, planter at Bay and
Howe Streets, planter at Waterfront Park sign, and Kingsley Park circle planter
3.   Replace or refurbish the current Christmas wreathes and return to the
sailboat design.
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to accept the
recommendation of the Beautification Committee to add mowing of the landscaped
triangle at NC 87/211 to the regular mowing schedule. Unanimous vote; motion
carried.
City Manager McDuffie indicated he would contact the Department of
Transportation (DOT) to let them know the city would be mowing the triangle
which is located on State property.
Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Poole to allow the recommended
spring plantings and for city staff to provide assistance installing pavers.
Alderman Barnes noted that the Beautification Committee has adequate funds for
the project. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Coring to authorize replacement of
the current Christmas wreaths, adding new nautical themed wreaths and
establishing a fund raising goal of $30,000 with the city as agent.
Discussion
Alderman Adams asked if enough wreaths would be purchased to continue the
current display. Ms. Snyder stated she anticipated there would be enough
wreaths to display to the Robert Ruark Drive intersection if the existing
wreaths were able to be refurbished and continued to be used.
Alderman Barnes praised the plan to raise funding for new wreaths and stated
his opinion the community would get behind the return to nautical themed
displays.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
City Manager McDuffie introduced Ms. Melanie Trexler who will be assuming the
duties of Southport Finance Director December 31, 2014.
4.   Lease Agreement with Historic Society for Old Jail
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Poole to approve the lease
agreement with the Historic Society for the Old Jail at 318 E. Nash Street and
to adopt the Resolution Authorizing Lease of City Property for a term of 10
years for the sum of $1 per year. Unanimous vote; motion carried.   
RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING LEASE OF CITY PROPERTY
   WHEREAS, the City of Southport owns the old Brunswick County jail site
located at 318 E. Nash Street, which site the Board finds is currently surplus
to the city’s needs; and
   WHEREAS, the City and the Southport Historical Society have agreed upon a
lease under which the Southport Historical Society will lease the City’s
property described above for a term of 10 years beginning December 10, 2014;
and
   WHEREAS, in consideration of leasing this property, the Southport Historical
Society has agreed to pay the sum of $1 per year and to make all necessary
improvements, additions and alterations to the property and be responsible for
all repairs, maintenance, insurance and expenses; and
   WHEREAS, N. C. G. S. 160A-272 authorizes the City to enter into leases of up
to 10 years upon resolution of the Board of Aldermen adopted at a regular
meeting after 10 days public
notice; and
   WHEREAS, the required notice has been published and the Board is convened in
a regular meeting;
   NOW, THEREFORE, THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN RESOLVES that the Board hereby
approves the lease of the city property described above to the Southport
Historical Society for 10 years and directs the City Manager to execute any
instruments necessary to the lease.
   Adopted December 11, 2014.         City of Southport
                     By: /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
                        
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
5.   Request to Water Newly Planted Trees
City Manager McDuffie explained that the Boy Scouts could no longer water the
trees planted annually by the Forestry Committee and subsequently the survival
rate of the trees has diminished. He indicated the Forestry Committee has
requested assistance from the city for watering the new trees.
Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Childs to direct the City Manager
to add watering of newly planted trees to the schedule of maintenance staff.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
6.   Approval of Architectural and Engineering Agreements
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Coring to defer consideration to a
future workshop. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
7.   Set Date of January Workshop
By Board consensus, a Workshop for review of the proposed Rescue Squad and
Police Department renovations, and possible consideration of awarding a
contract for construction of the public restrooms, was scheduled for Thursday,
January 8, 2015, 12:00 p.m. at Fire Headquarters, 1011 N. Howe Street.
By Board consensus, the annual Board Retreat was scheduled for Saturday,
January 31, 2015, 8:00 a.m. at Fire Headquarters, 1011 N. Howe Street.       
8.   Approval of Agreement for Lord Street Gym
City Attorney Isenberg reviewed the details and terms of the Memorandum of
Understanding Between City of Southport and Brunswick Community College for
acquisition by the City of the Lord Street Gym:
∙   The boundary of the property to be conveyed
∙   Fee simple warranty deed
∙   If city fails to renovate and open the facility within seven (7) years or
ceases to use the building for public recreational purposes, the title could
revert back to the College
∙   City agrees to paint the exterior and replace the roof within two (2) years
from the date of the recording of the deed
∙   City agrees to renovate the interior of the building within seven (7) years
from the date of the recording of the deed
∙   The College may use the facility without fee at such times as the facility
is not being used by the City
Alderman Adams stated his support for the agreement and shared his vision and
expectations of how the facility can serve the community. He discussed applying
for a grant to get the project started and he emphasized the “can do” spirit of
Southport government and citizens to raise funds to improve the quality of life
for all.
City Manager McDuffie discussed a new Department of Commerce grant program and
he explained that Ms. Heather Hemphill, Director of Parks and Recreation, had
prepared a grant application for $50,000 towards the Lord Street Gym project.
He stated an additional $150,000 for replacement of the roof and $11,000 for
exterior painting would need to be raised within two years in order to be in
compliance with the Memorandum of Understanding.
Alderman Powell recounted a previous Board pledge not to commit any taxpayer
dollars to the renovation of the gym. He suggested giving the Lord Street Gym
Committee time to determine if donations can be raised for the project.
Alderman Adams noted that an in-house campaign to raise the needed funding is
being planned. He emphasized the importance of the City owning the building
prior to asking people to pledge.
Alderman Barnes stated his support for the project and pointed out the
consideration before the Board was for an acquisition agreement and not for
expenditure of funds.
Recess – 7:05 p.m.
Reconvene – 7:10 p.m.
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to approve the Memorandum of
Understanding Between City of Southport and Brunswick Community College as
presented. (Memorandum on file in the clerk’s office)
Vote by an uplift of hands:   Ayes:   Aldermen Poole, Barnes, Adams, Coring,
Childs
            Nay:   Alderman Powell
            Motion carried 5 - 1
Alderman Adams motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to authorize the City
manager to file the grant application with the Department of Commerce, Rural
Development for $50,000. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
9.   Consideration of Bids for Construction of Public Restrooms
City Manager McDuffie reported that the bids for the public restrooms came in
over what was anticipated and he is negotiating with the low bidder to reduce
the price. It was noted that if the price could not be negotiated to an
acceptable amount, the project would have to be advertised again.
Mayor Howard expressed his concerns about the length of time the project was
taking and the Board’s commitment to the citizens to have the facilities open
by the start of the 2015 tourist season. He suggested the Building Committee
work with the city manager to continue negotiations and move the project
forward. He also speculated about the City acting as its own general
contractor.
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Coring to authorize the Building
Committee and City Manager to negotiate with the contractor to obtain a quote
within budget range.
Discussion
Alderman Adams stated his displeasure that the project was taking longer than
the original estimate of six to seven months.
City Manager McDuffie explained that a list of contractors was obtained from
the Building Inspections Department, all contractors were contacted for
quotations, four (4) contractors picked up plans but only one submitted a
proposal.
Attorney Isenberg advised that per State law, an informal contract can be
negotiated with the bidder.
Unanimous vote by an uplift of hands; motion carried.
Closed Session – 7:30
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Childs to go into closed session
pursuant to G.S 143-318.11(a)(3) to consult with the attorney and G.S. 143-
318.11(a)(6) for discussion of personnel issues. Unanimous vote; motion
carried.
Regular Session Reconvenes – 8:31
Alderman Childs motioned, second by Alderman Powell to come out of closed
session. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Mayor Howard reported the Board received advice from the city attorney and the
Board continued the performance evaluation of the City Manager. No action was
taken.
By Board consensus, Item 6 Approval of Architectural and Engineering
Agreements, was considered. Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Powell
to authorize the Emergency Services Committee and the City Manager to act on
behalf of the Board to award the contracts within budget and as presented.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
City Manager McDuffie advised the Board that drawings of the proposed
renovations to the Police Department and Rescue Headquarters were available for
review in the Clerk’s office.
Adjournment- 8:35 p.m.
   Alderman Powell moved to adjourn the meeting, second by Alderman Childs.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.   
                     
                        /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:   /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
2015
JANUARY 8, 2015
WORKSHOP SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  WORKSHOP SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING JANUARY 8, 2015
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor Robert D. Howard
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Mary “Meezie” Childs,
            Nelson Adams, Todd Coring, Jim Powell, Buddy Barnes
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Tyler Johnson, EMS Chief
   John Allen, Community Development Specialist
   Vickie Potter, Community Building Coordinator
A)   Call to Order – 12:33 p.m.
Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 12:33 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Poole welcomed everyone and gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Poole led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
…………
Mayor Howard announced there was no formal agenda for the Workshop.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Howard stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
D)   Announcements
There were no announcements.
AGENDA
1.   Police Department/Board Chambers & EMS Headquarters
City Manager McDuffie updated the Board:
∙   The Emergency Services Committee had met,
∙   Contracts in place with Cape Fear Architecture, PA and Norris & Tunstall
Consulting Engineers for architectural and engineering services,
∙   The basic design plans are being presented to the Board
∙   Project Estimate: EMS with addition - $500,000
Police/Board Chambers - $1M
The Board reviewed full size drawings of the design plans for the renovation of
the Police Department/Board Chambers & EMS Headquarters.
Mayor Howard discussed the lengthy time the projects are taking. He emphasized
the objective of upgrading the city’s deteriorating buildings and the
considerations critical for the best way to accomplish that within an
established budget. He questioned when the projects could go out for bids. City
Manager McDuffie estimated the EMS building could be ready for bids in either
June or July and the Police Department could go out for bids in July or August.
2.   Public Restrooms
The Board reviewed the plans for public restrooms to be constructed at 107 E.
Nash Street. Aldermen Powell reported the bid came in at $264,000, was
negotiated down to three (3) construction options; $193,000, $175,000 and
$165,000.
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Childs to authorize the Building
Committee and City Manager to finalize negotiations for Option 3 and to realize
the operation of the facility by June 1. Unanimous vote by an uplift of hands;
motion carried.
3.   Street Lights
City Manager McDuffie presented recommendations and pricing from Brunswick
Electric Membership Corp (BEMC) for street light fixtures. The Board discussed
the options with emphasis on providing a safe environment for pedestrians.
Decorative fixtures and placement locations were considered along with lighting
type; high pressure sodium vs. LED, life expectancy of the different material
types of poles and candlepower.
Alderman Adams motioned, second by Alderman Poole to make aluminum poles the
standard City of Southport street light pole at a cost of $1,070 per pole.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Adams to adopt 1.5 candlepower as
the standard for all City of Southport street lights. Unanimous vote; motion
carried.
4.   Outside City Limits Sewer Rate for Existing Industry
Alderman Barnes presented the Rate Committee’s recommendation for sewer service
rates for customers outside the city limits.
City Manager McDuffie pointed out that the rates are based on the size of the
water tap. He noted also that three (3) businesses outside the city are
currently receiving sewer service at an inside city rate and with the adoption
of the proposed rates, their rates would change.
Board consensus to adopt the sewer rates as recommended by the Rate Committee
for sewer customers outside the city limits. Rates will be effective at the end
of the February billing cycle.
Proposed Sewer Rates
Size Water Tap      Inside City Limits      Outside City Limits
         Base Per 1k gal      Base Per 1k gal
¾”         $ 28.50    $ 5.81      $ 42.75    $ 6.39 
1”         $ 35.50    $ 5.81      $ 53.25    $ 6.39
1-1/4”         $ 41.50    $ 5.81      $ 62.25    $ 6.39
1-1/2”         $ 51.25    $ 5.81      $ 76.88    $ 6.39
2”         $ 71.00    $ 5.81      $ 106.50    $ 6.39
4”         $ 183.50    $ 5.81      $ 275.25     $ 6.39
6”         $ 347.25    $ 5.81      $ 520.88    $ 6.39
5.   Duke Progress Energy
City Manager McDuffie advised that, now that the Outside City Limit Sewer Rates
have been adopted, the Utility Committee would continue negotiations with Duke
Progress Energy for the City to provide sewer service to the Brunswick Nuclear
Plant (BNP).
6.   Amendment to Section 19-138 of the Code of Ordinances
Mayor Howard proposed for consideration, an amendment to Section 19-138 of the
Code of Ordinances entitled “Initiation of water and/or sewer projects outside
corporate limits” which allows for the Board to waive the annexation
requirement in order for industry outside the city limits to be provided sewer
service by the City of Southport. The amendment would waive the requirement of
annexation for any industrial entity which:
1.   Was in business prior to January 1, 2014;
2.   Employs 200 or more employees, and
3.   Is located within the city’s sewer service area
Aldermen Poole, Childs and Barnes spoke in support of the proposed amendment.
Consideration of the proposed amendment will be made in the January 8 regular
meeting.
7.   Archer Daniels Midland Company (ADM)
Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Childs to authorize the Utility
Committee and City Manager to negotiate with ADM to reach a mutual agreement to
provide sewer service to ADM by the City of Southport per the following:
∙   ADM to pay a one-time fee; $64,000
∙   $53.25 Base Rate
∙   ADM required to connect to city’s pump station on Moore Street
∙   ADM required to furnish a flow meter and vault
∙   ADM required to upgrade the pumping station when the flow increases
 Unanimous vote; motion carried.
8.   Sewer Capacity
Mayor Howard spoke about the City’s impending need for additional sewer
allocation, the County’s inability to provide the allocation and that the Town
of Oak Island may consider selling one (1) million gallon capacity to the City.
He noted that in August 2014, the City went over its current 500,000 gallon
capacity.
9.   ABC Board Appointment
City Clerk Windham advised that Application for Appointment to the ABC Board
had been advertised and would remain open until January 23.
Mayor Howard directed staff to contact current ABC Board member, Mr. William
Davis, to determine his interest in being re-appointed.
Consideration for appointment will be held at the February regular Board
meeting.
10.   Leasing Old Visitors Center
Board consensus to not lease the Community Building Annex (Old Visitors’
Center) and to keep the facility available for possible use by the Police
Department during renovation of 201 E. Moore Street.
11.   Get Prices for Finishing Roads in Cemetery
Board consensus to direct the City Manager to obtain bids for paving the
remaining roads in Northwood Cemetery. Aldermen Poole and Adams remarked that
they had received positive comments about the roads that had been paved and the
appearance of the cemetery.
12.   Request to add Southport to State Health Plan
Mayor Howard talked about the increased cost for employee health care citing
the cost of $150,000 annually 10 years ago compared to $648,000 currently and
the expected increase going forward. He noted an option for municipalities to
consider is going on the State Employee Health Insurance Plan. To do so would
require a local bill authorizing the city’s eligibility.
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Powell to ask local delegation to
make Southport eligible for the State Employee Health Care Plan. Unanimous
vote; motion carried.
13.   Moving Start of Pay Period from Thursday to Tuesday
Mayor Howard explained that employee payroll is processed on Thursday with pay
on Friday which leaves no time to process payroll if there is a power failure
or the Human Resources Technician is ill.
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Powell to authorize staff to back
up processing of payroll to Tuesday without any impact to employees
compensation. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
14.   Waterfront Steering Committee Request
Mayor Howard stated the Waterfront Steering Committee had requested
authorization to increase its membership from 8 to 10 members with members
chosen from the applications previously submitted. Alderman Barnes motioned,
second by Alderman Poole to appoint Ms. Morgan Harper and Mr. Jim Sotherland to
the Waterfront Steering Committee. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
15.   Closed Session - 3:40 p.m.
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to go into Closed Session
Pursuant to G.S. 143-318.11(a) (6) for discussion of personnel issues.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Return to Open Session - 5:16 p.m.
Alderman Adams motioned, second by Aldermen Barnes to come out of Closed
Session. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Mayor Howard stated the Board had completed the City Manager’s review and
Alderman Poole would put a final report together for review with the City
Manager at the January 31 Retreat.
Adjournment-5:17 p.m.
   Alderman Barnes moved to adjourn the meeting, second by Alderman Coring.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.   
                        /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:   /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING JANUARY 8, 2015
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor Robert D. Howard
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Mary “Meezie” Childs,
            Nelson Adams, Todd Coring, Jim Powell, Buddy Barnes
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   John Allen, Community Development Specialist
   Vickie Potter, Community Building Coordinator
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Poole welcomed everyone and gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Poole led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Howard stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
D)   Announcements
Mayor Howard announced that the Waterfront Steering Committee and CTT
Consultants are hosting a public outreach meeting to be held Monday, January
26, 2015, 5:30 p.m. at the Community Building. Mayor Howard encouraged everyone
to attend.
E)   Public Comment
   No one from the public spoke.
F)   Approval of Agenda
   Mayor Howard requested addition to the agenda; consideration of solar power
buy back from a commercial customer and amending Section 19-138 of the Code of
Ordinances.
   Alderman Poole requested addition to the agenda of consideration of changing
the time of the regular monthly meeting of the Board.
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Powell to approve the agenda as
amended.  Unanimous vote; motion carried.
CONSENT AGENDA
   Mayor Howard pointed out that due to the timeframe for the renovation of the
Board of Aldermen Chambers at 201 E. Moore Street, the Board was committed to
holding meetings in a location that was accessible to all citizens.
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Childs to approve the consent
agenda. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   1.   Minutes for December 11, 2014 regular meeting minutes – approved
       Minutes for December 11, 2014 closed session minutes – approved
   2.   Move regularly scheduled monthly meeting to the Community Building -
approved
AGENDA
3.   Request from Waterfront Steering Committee for Additional Funds
   Mr. Ron Thompson, a member of the Waterfront Steering Committee, explained
the committee’s request for additional funds to allow the City’s consultant,
CTT Engineering, to attend one committee meeting a month to answer questions
from the committee and to provide additional information. Mr. Thompson pointed
out that approximately $1,000 of the requested funds would be used for
advertising public meetings.
   Alderman Childs motioned, second by Alderman Powell to approve the request
for additional funds in the amount of $9,500. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
4.   Offer to Provide Fund Raising for Lord Street Gym
   Alderman Adams reported that Mr. Pat Dane has volunteered his professional
services to steer the fund raising for Phase I of the Lord Street Gym
restoration.
   Alderman Adams motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to authorize a fund
raising goal of $218,000 for Phase One of the Lord Street Gym renovation
project and have the Lord Street Gym Committee work with Mr. Pat Dane, who is
volunteering his time and expertise.  Unanimous vote; motion carried.   
5.   Street Lights
   Item addressed during an earlier workshop.
6.   Utility Vouchers
   City Manager McDuffie presented a recommendation by staff and the Rate
Committee to discontinue charging utility customers a $5 late fee or $25
delinquent fee when the customer has received, and is awaiting payment of, a
utility voucher issued by Southport-Oak Island Interfaith Church Fellowship,
Brunswick Family Assistance or Department of Social Services. He explained that
the payment may take 2-3 weeks to be received but it is not fair to charge late
fees.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to accept the staff and
Rate Committee recommendation. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
7.   Transportation Committee Recommendations
   Alderman Powell, member of the Traffic & Transportation Committee, reported
that the committee met and took under consideration the petitioned requests for
4-way stop signs at Bay Street & Caswell Avenue, Moore Street & Caswell Avenue
and a speed limit reduction along N. Howe Street. He indicated the committee
determined that 4-way stop signs would not be appropriate at the requested
intersections, in part due to the current parking configuration, and the
committee recommended not to use 4-way stop signs.
   Alderman Powell pointed out that the area of N. Howe Street petitioned for a
speed limit reduction to allow golf carts access to businesses is a State route
and a designated truck route with an estimated 150 trucks a day traveling
through the area. He expressed his concerns about the safety of golf cart
operators. He indicated the committee recommended not to lower the speed limit
as petitioned.
   Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Adams to accept the Traffic &
Transportation Committee recommendations.
Ayes:   Aldermen Barnes, Adams, Childs, Poole, Powell
Nay:   Alderman Coring
Motion Passed 5-1
8.   Appointments to Board of Adjustment
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to re-appoint Ms. Melissa
Hinnant to an in-town two-year term on the Board of Adjustment. Unanimous vote;
motion carried.
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Childs to re-appoint Mr. Chris
Maynor to an extra-territorial jurisdiction (ETJ) two-year term on the Board of
Adjustment and Mr. Frank Popelars to an ETJ Alternative one-year term, subject
to approval by the Brunswick County Commissioners and to adopt the Resolution
Requesting Brunswick County Board of Commissioners to Appoint Extraterritorial
Members to City of Southport Board of Adjustment Pursuant to G.S. 160A-362.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
RESOLUTION OF SOUTHPORT BOARD OF ALDERMEN REQUESTING BRUNSWICK COUNTY BOARD OF
COMMISSIONERS TO APPOINT EXTRATERRITORIAL MEMBERS TO CITY OF SOUTHPORT BOARD OF
ADJUSTMENT PURSUANT TO G.S. 160A-362
WHEREAS, the terms of one alternate extraterritorial member of the City of
Southport Board of Adjustment has expired; and
WHEREAS, the term of one regular extraterritorial member of the City of
Southport Board of Adjustment has expired; and
WHEREAS, the members who have been serving in said capacities desire to be
reappointed; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen desires that the Brunswick County Board of
Commissioners appoint said extraterritorial members as expeditiously as
possible in order to assure the efficient functioning of said board;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT HEREBY RESOLVED as follows:
1. That the City of Southport Board of Aldermen hereby requests that the
Brunswick County Board of Commissioners appoint one regular member and one
alternate member to the City of Southport Board of Adjustment as expeditiously
as possible.
2. That the City of Southport Board of Aldermen hereby requests that the
Brunswick County Board of Commissioners appoint the following persons to said
positions:
Regular:      Chris Maynor
Alternate:   Frank Popelars
This the 8th day of January, 2015
                     City of Southport
                     By: /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
9.   Rate Committee Recommendation to Create Out-of-Town Sewer Rate
   Item addressed during an earlier workshop.
10.   Changing Meeting Time
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Childs to change the monthly
meeting time from 6:00 p.m. to 1:00 p.m. and to amend Section 2-48 of the Code
of Ordinances to so provide:
Roll Call Vote by the Clerk:
Ayes:   Aldermen Poole, Adams, Powell, Coring, Childs
Nay:   Alderman Barnes
Motion Carried 5-1
AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING THE TIME AND PLACE OF THE REGULAR MEETING OF THE
BOARD OF ALDERMEN
BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport that section
2-48 of the Code of Ordinances is hereby amended to read as follows:
Sec. 2-48. Regular meetings.
There shall be a regular meeting of the Board of Aldermen at the meeting room
of city hall, or at such other place as may be designated, on the second
Thursday of each month at 1:00 p.m., unless otherwise specified, in which case
notice shall be given in accordance with applicable law.
Adopted this 8th day of January, 2015         City of Southport
                     By: /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
11.   Solar Buy Back
   City Manager McDuffie presented a staff and Rate Committee recommendation to
buy back solar generated electricity by a commercial entity at the same rate as
a residential customer, 6.75 cents per kilowatt. He pointed out that the
commercial customer is on a standard meter and not a demand customer.
   Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Childs to adopt the rate of
6.75 cents per kilowatt for solar buy back for a non-demand commercial entity.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
12.   Consideration of Amending Section 19-138 of the Code of Ordinances
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to adopt an ordinance
amending Section 19-138 of the Code of Ordinances. Unanimous vote; motion
carried.
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 19 OF THE CODE OF ORDINANCES
BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport that Section
19-138 of the Code of Ordinances entitled “Initiation of water and/or sewer
projects outside corporate limits” is hereby amended to read as follows:
(a)   It shall be the general policy of the city to permit extensions of water
and sewer service outside the city’s corporate limits only when those areas or
developments simultaneously with the request for service petition the city for
annexation (including non-contiguous annexation) where practical. Service shall
not be considered prior to annexation.
(b)   The application for service shall contain a valid petition from the
applicant requesting annexation or, if annexation is not practical, a written
statement setting forth the reasons why annexation would not be practical, or a
written statement setting forth the request for waiver and documentation
verifying that the standards set forth in subsection (c) below are met.
(c)   The Board of Aldermen shall have the authority to waive the requirement
of annexation when it determines that annexation would not be practical,
legally possible or would not be in the best interest of the City. In addition,
the Board may waive the requirement of annexation for any industrial entity
which (i) was in business prior to January 1, 2014, (ii) employs 200 or more
employees, and (iii) is located within the city’s sewer service area. In this
event, the city manager shall prepare an extension agreement providing for
service without annexation, which agreement must be approved by the Board of
Aldermen in order to be effective.
(d)   The application for service shall contain written statements agreeing to
the city’s water and sewer extension policy, particularly Section 19-136.
Furthermore, the applicant shall be responsible for one hundred (100) percent
of the cost of the improvements, other related facilities and rights of way or
easements necessary to construct the improvements.
This the 8th day of January, 2015.         City of Southport
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
Mayor Howard announced that a dedication of Rob Gandy Boulevard is being
planned.
Mayor Howard announced that the Board, at their earlier workshop, approved
construction of the public restrooms at a cost of $165,000. It is anticipated
the restrooms will be open to the public by June 1.
Mayor Howard re-opened Public Comment .
City Attorney Isenberg advised Ms. Edge, an applicant for taxi service within
the City, that consideration would be given to the application at the February
12 Board meeting after required notification to other franchise holders.
Ms. Bonnie Bray, 404 Clarendon Avenue, and two (2) other un-named attendees
expressed their displeasure for the change in meeting time of the Board.
Adjournment- 6:45 p.m.
   Alderman Childs moved to adjourn the meeting, second by Alderman Powell.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.   
                     
                        /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:   /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
JANUARY 31, 2015
RETREAT MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN            RETREAT MINUTES
JANUARY 31, 2015             9:00 A.M.
FIRE DEPARTMENT HEADQUARTERS SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Robert D. Howard
         Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Buddy Barnes, Nelson Adams
         Jim Powell, Todd Coring and Mary “Meezie” Childs
STAFF PRESENT:   Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
         Michele Windham, City Clerk
         Jerry Dove, Chief of Police
         Charles Drew, Fire Chief
         Cindy Brochure, Tourism & Economic Development Director
         Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
         Vickie Potter, Community Building Coordinator
         David Fox, Public Works Director
         Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
         B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
         Teresa Mosley, Human Resources Technician
Call to Order - 9:00 a.m.
   Mayor Howard called the meeting to order.
Invocation
   Alderman Poole welcomed everyone, gave the invocation and led the assemblage
in the Pledge of Allegiance.
Adoption of the Agenda
   Alderman Poole requested consideration of a donation to the Town of Oak
Island for Smith Park.
   Mayor Howard requested consideration of a waiver to the Noise Ordinance for
S.T. Wooten requested by the North Carolina Department of Transportation
(NCDOT).
   Mayor Howard indicated he would update the Board on the status of the city’s
sewer capacity and a contractual arrangement with Duke Progress Energy.
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to adopt the agenda as
amended. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Closed Session – 9:09 a.m.
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to enter closed session
pursuant to G.S. 143-318.11(a)(1) to discuss confidential information under
G.S. 159B-38. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Return to Regular Session – 10:51 a.m.
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Childs to come out of closed
session. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Mayor Howard announced that the Board met in closed session with
representatives of the North Carolina Eastern Municipal Power Agency (NCEMPA)
to receive an update on the potential sale as assets.
DEPARTMENTAL REPORTS
(Complete reports included as Attachment #1)
Fire Department – Chief Charles Drew
Chief Drew provided an overview of the department’s accomplishments for 2014.
He emphasized the certifications achieved, largest increase in volunteers in 25
years, implementation of an awards program, restoration of the Chaplaincy
Program, number of calls responded to, response time, equipment replacement,
enhanced 911 mapping program, success of events and updates in progress to the
department’s Operating Guidelines. Chief Drew discussed the condition of the
City’s fire hydrants and the necessity of a substation in the Rivermist
subdivision area.
Administration – City Manager McDuffie
City Manager McDuffie presented a conceptual idea to install radio read water
meters to reduce the timeframe for reading meters, the billing cycle,
disconnections and debt collection. He pointed out that the city currently
contracts meter reading at a cost of $54,000 annually.
Public Works Department – David Fox
   Mr. Fox highlighted the Public Works Department accomplishments for 2014. He
briefly reviewed requests for the 2015-2016 budget, pointed out the vehicle
inventory, conditions, and recommendations provided in the agenda packet and
answered questions pertaining to the use of a proposed purchase of a scissor
lift, status of underground electric installation at the Yacht Basin and
proposed design of street light fixtures.
Finance Department – Melanie Trexler
Ms. Trexler provided an Operating Cash Balances and Funds Balance Activity
report through June 30, 2014. She gave an update on the implementation of the
new Utility Billing Software and explained the time line for financing new
capital projects, i.e., EMS and Police Department renovations, through the
Local Government Commission (LGC). Responding to inquiries by Alderman Childs,
Ms. Trexler assured the Board that monthly reports were a departmental priority
and credit card policy changes would be implemented within 30 days. Ms. Trexler
provided clarification of the Tax Collector Annual Settlement Report and
collections made to date.
Police Department – Lt. Gary Smith & Chief Jerry Dove
   Lt. Gary Smith outlined the Police Department’s accomplishments, programs,
training, vehicles, personnel equipment and technology. He noted the department
continues to utilize Brunswick Community College training opportunities,
continues a one (1) new vehicle a year program, has a full-time vacancy and the
reserve patrol is reduced. He recommended increasing the reserve force to three
(3) officers, updating side arms, purchasing new traffic-monitoring equipment,
purchasing lock out kits, enhancing technology systems and improving building
security.
Chief Dove discussed the success of the Golf Cart Registration Program, a grant
received for the purchase of new Tasers, continuation of the Community Policing
Program, working in cooperation with the Fire and Rescue Departments for
development of a Public Safety Substation, and the city’s status as one of the
safest cities in the State.
EMS – Chief Tyler Johnston
   Chief Johnston unavailable due to a family illness.
Planning/Inspection/Code Enforcement/Animal Control – Wayne Strickland
   Mr. Strickland gave an annual report for Planning/Inspections/Code
Enforcement and Animal Control. He reviewed the permitting and valuation of 119
single family residences, 24 commercial structures, 837 electrical, mechanical
and plumbing permits, corresponding inspections and 87 sign permits. He
highlighted the fire inspections performed, animal control calls answered,
solid waste violations, successful clean-up projects and the updates and
certification of the Southport CAMA Core Land Use Plan, Zoning Map and
Community Rating System (CRS). He outlined the department’s goals for 2015 and
long term goals to digitize permitting files and update software programs.
City Clerk – Michele Windham
   Ms. Windham presented a brief report of the 2014 accomplishments of the City
Clerk’s office, emphasizing the completed preservation of three (3) minutes
books dated 1914 through 1925. She pointed out that two (2) additional books
are scheduled to be preserved in 2015 at an estimated cost of $5,800. She noted
that she and the Deputy City Clerk were participating in North Carolina
Association of Municipal Clerks (NCAMC) and School of Government training
opportunities. She highlighted future goals of the department to improve
meeting recording equipment and electronic management of all records.
Beautification Committee Request
Ms. Vickie Lombardi reported that the city planter project on S. Howe Street in
front of the Silver Coast Winery Shoppe would be getting underway. She stated
the Beautification Committee had hoped that city staff would maintain the
planter with cleaning out liter, mulching, and light trimming.
Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Powell to accept the
recommendation of the Beautification Committee. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Human Resources – Teresa Mosley
   Ms. Mosley gave a brief overview of the department’s accomplishments and
goals noting the implementation of new payroll software, building the Human
Resources page on the city’s website, plans to establish uniform pay plan
classifications for all positions and the importance of attending training
programs offered by the School of Government.
   Board members were supportive of attending training opportunities with
Alderman Poole noting the frequent changes in HR regulations.
Tourism/Economic Development – Cindy Brochure
   Ms. Brochure discussed the many 2014 projects and events for the Tourism &
Economic Development Department; Wayfinding Signs, Visitor Map, Trolley, Peace
Day, Classic Cars ‘n Rock ‘n Roll, Scarrison House, Winterfest, Light Up the
Night Christmas Fire Engine Parade to name a few. Ms. Brochure expressed her
delight that two (2) Southport billboards had been placed on Highways 17 and I-
40 through funding from Electricities. Ms. Brochure talked about the
improvements to the Fort Johnston-Southport Museum Store, exhibits and the
volunteers. She pointed out that she had been officially tasked with
maintaining the City of Southport website and her goal, with assistance from
departments and staff, to have the site completely updated by March 1, 2015.
Ms. Brochure outlined future goals for the visitor center, museum, tourism,
economic development and the repairs needed to the Garrison House and grounds.
Community Building – Vickie Potter
   Ms. Potter reported that the exterior of the community building was painted
in 2014, new chairs were purchased with a donation made, and the restroom
stalls were upgraded. She indicated future projects would include painting the
interior of the facility, replacing the restroom floor tiles and refinishing
the wood floors. Responding to a question from Alderman Barnes, Ms. Potter
stated she is soliciting prices for re-installation of the eight (8) flags that
have been displayed in the main room.
Parks and Recreation – Heather Hemphill
    Ms. Hemphill discussed the submittal of a $50,000 URL grant application for
the Lord Street Gym revitalization project, the August 8 lease expiration of
the 9th Street Park, and the need to dredge the city dock. She reviewed the
recommendations from the 2015-2020 Parks, Recreation and Open Space Master
Plan, many of which are contingent on funding. She noted that individual items
of the Plan would be addressed during the budget process. Ms. Hemphill to
explore grant options for dredging of the city dock.
Lunch – 1:25 p.m.
Return to Session – 2:02 p.m.
Closed Session
   Alderman Childs motioned, second by Alderman Powell to go into closed
session pursuant to G.S. 143-318.11(a)(6) for discussion of personnel issues.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Return to Regular Session – 2:52 p.m.
   Alderman Powell motioned second by Alderman Barnes to come out of closed
session. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Mayor Howard announced that the Board met in closed session at the request
of the city manager. The Board gave guidance to the city manager and took no
action.
Audit Presentation
   Mr. Menton Padgett, Berry, Padgett & Chandler, PLLC, presented the Financial
Analysis Report through January 30, 2014, pointing out the available fund
balance, the electric fund has no debt, and the city has no outstanding bonds.
He emphasized that the water fund continues to have an operating loss as rates
have not kept up with costs. He explained the city’s liability change for the
State Pension Plan. He stated receipt, by August 15, of the annual financial
information for preparation of the audit would allow for filing the audit with
the State by the October 31 deadline. (Audit report included as Attachment #2)
Time Line for Police and EMS Building – Stephanie Seeber
   Ms. Seeber reported that she is working diligently with the EMS and Police
Chiefs, city staff and engineers. She anticipated bidding the renovation
project in the Spring and she stated her hope is to solicit a single prime bid
with the plumbing, mechanical and electrical all inclusive. She stated she is
meeting with the project engineers during the week of February 2. She pointed
out that the Police Department has been more complex due to water intrusion,
air quality and the condition of the roof. She indicated that the EMS and
Police project are moving concurrently but are at different levels of design
stage work. She stated she is working within the budget parameters for the
projects.
Board Consideration of Closing Project Budgets
Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Childs to adopt Resolution for
Closing of Capital Project Budget Ordinance for the City of Southport Safe
Routes to Schools and to transfer a balance of $3,642.19 to the general fund.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
RESOLUTION FOR THE CLOSING OF CAPITAL PROJECT BUDGET ORDINANCE FOR THE CITY OF
SOUTHPORT SAFE ROUTES TO SCHOOLS
WHEREAS, the Aldermen for the City of Southport pursuant to Section 13.2 of
Chapter 159 of the General Statutes of North Carolina created a Capital Project
Ordinance adopted on the 10 th day of January, 2013 for the Safe Routes to
Schools funded by a federal grant from the NC Department of Transportation; and
WHEREAS, the funds for the Southport Safe Routes to Schools, at a projected
cost of $125,000, were appropriated from the Capital Reserve Fund in accordance
with the Ordinances for the City of Southport and Section 22 of Chapter 159 of
the General Statutes of North Carolina; and
WHEREAS, the actual expenditure of funds for Southport Safe Routes to Schools
totaled $121,357.81 leaving a balance of $3,642.19 with all costs of the
project being accounted for;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE ALDERMEN OF THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT, that
the Capital Project Ordinance for the Southport Safe Routes to Schools be
closed and the $3,642.19 balance of appropriated funds be unappropriated and
made readily available in the City of Southport’s general fund.
THE FOREGOING RESOLUTION WAS ADOPTED BY THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT ON JANUARY 31,
2015.
                     By: /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to adopt Resolution for the
Closing of Capital Project Budget Ordinance for the Fire Station Capital
Project and to transfer a balance of $ 163,727 to the general fund. Unanimous
vote; motion carried.
RESOLUTION FOR THE CLOSING OF CAPITAL PROJECT BUDGET ORDINANCE FOR THE FIRE
STATION CAPITAL PROJECT
WHEREAS, the Aldermen for the City of Southport pursuant to Section 13.2 of
Chapter 159 of the General Statutes of North Carolina created a Capital Project
Ordinance adopted on the 14 th day of May, 2009 for construction of the New
Southport Fire Station which was amended on the 10 th day of October, 2013 for
the purpose of transferring funds to another fund to pay down the principle;
and
WHEREAS, The Fire station capital project is funded from loan proceeds; and
WHEREAS, the funds for the Capital Project, at a projected cost of $3,784,000,
were appropriated from the Capital Reserve Fund in accordance with the
Ordinances for the City of Southport and Section 22 of Chapter 159 of the
General Statutes of North Carolina, and
WHEREAS, the actual expenditure of funds for construction of the Southport Fire
Station totaled $3,550,243 leaving a balance of $163,727 with all costs of the
project being accounted for;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE ALDERMEN OF THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT, that
the Capital Project Ordinance for the Southport Fire Station be closed and the
$163,727 balance of appropriated funds be unappropriated and made readily
available in the City of Southport’s general fund.
THE FOREGOING RESOLUTION WAS ADOPTED BY THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT ON JANUARY 31,
2015.
                     By: /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
Alderman Childs motioned, second by Alderman Powell to adopt Resolution for the
Closing of Capital Project Budget Ordinance for the Pedestrian Plan. Unanimous
vote; motion carried.
RESOLUTION FOR THE CLOSING OF CAPITAL PROJECT BUDGET ORDINANCE FOR THE
PEDESTRIAN TRANSPORTATION PLAN
WHEREAS, the Aldermen for the City of Southport pursuant to Section 13.2 of
Chapter 159 of the General Statutes of North Carolina created a Capital Project
Ordinance adopted on the 13 th day of September, 2012 for development of a
comprehensive municipal bicycle and pedestrian plan, 80% of cost of which was
funded by NC Department of Transportation; and
WHEREAS, the budget was amended on the 13 th day of September, 2012 for the
purpose of transferring from general fund to provide the matching share; and
WHEREAS, the funds for the Pedestrian Transportation Plan, at a projected cost
of $31,000 were appropriated from the Capital Reserve Fund in accordance with
the Ordinances for the City of Southport and section 22 of Chapter 159 of the
General Statutes of North Carolina; and
WHEREAS, the actual expenditure of funds for The Pedestrian Transportation Plan
totaled $31,000 leaving a balance of $0 with all costs of the project being
accounted for;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE ALDERMEN OF THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT, that
the Capital Project Ordinance for the Pedestrian Transportation Plan be closed.
THE FOREGOING RESOLUTION WAS ADOPTED BY THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT ON JANUARY 31,
2015.
                     By: /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Powell to adopt Resolution for the
Closing of Capital Project Budget Ordinance for the Southport Wastewater System
Enhancement Phase II. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
RESOLUTION FOR THE CLOSING OF CAPITAL PROJECT BUDGET ORDINANCE FOR THE
SOUTHPORT WASTEWATER SYSTEM ENHANCEMENT PHASE II
WHEREAS, the Aldermen for the City of Southport pursuant to Section 13.2 of
Chapter 159 of the General Statutes of North Carolina created a Capital Project
Ordinance adopted on the 12 th day of November, 2012 for the Southport
Wastewater System Enhancement Phase II; and
WHEREAS, the funds for the Southport Wastewater System Enhancement Phase II, at
a projected cost of $4,404,695, were appropriated from the Capital Reserve Fund
in accordance with the Ordinances of the City of Southport and Section 22 of
Chapter 159 of the General Statutes of North Carolina; and
WHEREAS, the actual expenditure of funds for Southport Wastewater System
Enhancement Phase II totaled $3,897,974 leaving a balance of $121,134 with all
costs of the project being accounted for;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE ALDERMEN OF THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT, that
the Capital Project Ordinance for Southport Wastewater System Enhancement Phase
II be closed.
THE FOREGOING RESOLUTION WAS ADOPTED BY THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT ON JANUARY 31,
2015.
                     By: /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
Public Hearing for Financing of Public Restrooms
Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Childs to fund the construction of
the Public Restrooms Project from the general fund.
Ayes:   Aldermen Barnes, Childs, Poole, Adams, Powell
Nay:   Alderman Coring
Motion Passed 5-1   
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to amend the authorization
for construction of the public restrooms at a cost of $165,000 to a cost of
$167,200. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Break – 3:35 p.m.
Return to Session – 3:51 p.m.
Organizational Chart
City Manager McDuffie presented a City staff organizational chart. It was noted
that eleven (11) department heads report directly to the city manager.
Sewer Allocation
   Mayor Howard discussed the city’s need for increased sewer allocation in
order to provide service in the city’s sewer service area, for new annexations,
for requests for service from Duke Energy Progress, Archer Daniels Midland
(ADM) and future developments. He reported that the Brunswick County Manager
had agreed to lease the City a temporary additional allocation of 150,000
gallons above the City’s current allocation at $1/gallon per year. He also
discussed an option for Southport to purchase 750,000 to 1M gallon of
allocation from the Town of Oak Island through an agreement with Brunswick
County to transfer 750,000 – 1M gallon to Southport from Oak Island at a
projected cost of $970,000 annually through 2031 at which time Southport would
own the capacity.
Duke Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Poole to authorize the City
Manager to send a response letter to Duke Energy Progress (DEP), regarding
DEP’s request for sewer service. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
NC DOT Request
   By Board consensus, waiver to the Noise Ordinance for paving of Moore and
Howe Streets to be performed by S. T. Wooten, under the authority of the North
Carolina Department of Transportation (NCDOT), during the hours of 6:00 p.m. –
5:00 a.m. Per suggestion of Alderman Adams, City Manager McDuffie to inquiry
if, during the street resurfacing, the traffic light at the Moore and Howe
Streets intersection can be upgraded and the wiring be placed underground.
Donation to Oak Island
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Powell to donate $4,000 to the Town
of Oak Island towards capital improvements made at Smith Park. Unanimous vote;
motion carried.
Determining Our Mission
Aldermen Poole and Childs volunteered to work with the City Manager to improve
the City’s Mission Statement and to present a recommendation to the full Board
at a future work session.
Board Sets Major Goals Going Forward
∙   Continuation of moving electric transmission lines underground
∙   Waterfront Revitalization
∙   Increase sewer capacity
∙   Install back-up generator at City Hall
∙   Receive monthly financial statements
∙   Provide timely submittal of annual audit information to Auditor
∙   Liquidation of surplus equipment
∙   Lease renewal for 9th Street Park
∙   Potential sale of the former wastewater treatment plant and city owned
property in Boiling Spring Lakes
Board Comments
   Alderman Barnes opened a discussion regarding the recent time change of the
regular Board meetings. He indicated he had received many e-mails about it and
he felt the reason for the change was unclear to many Southport citizens.
   Mayor Howard stated the Board strives to get people to attend meetings and
members have been told that citizens that do not get out a night and retirees
are unable to attend the night meetings. So in an effort to attract more
people, the meeting time was changed to 1:00 p.m.
   Alderman Poole, Adams and Powell echoed the Mayor’s comments.
   Alderman Coring indicated he had been overrun with calls, comments and
messages and speculated that if meeting attendance did not improve, the Board
may want to reconsider the meeting time.
   Alderman Childs stated she had received calls supporting the time change.
   Alderman Coring suggested that the Emergency Services Committee look at the
recommendation to have Animal Control services placed under law enforcement.
   Alderman Childs raised concerns that city staff would not be able to attend
the 1:00 p.m. Board meetings. Additionally, she requested periodic reports on
the progress of the Lord Street Gym Renovation Project.
Adjournment – 5:05 P.M.
   Meeting adjourned upon motion of Alderman Barnes, second by Alderman Childs.
Vote unanimous; motion carried.   
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
FEBRUARY 12, 2015
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING FEBRUARY 12, 2015
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor Robert D. Howard
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Mary “Meezie” Childs,
            Nelson Adams, Todd Coring, Jim Powell
ABSENT:         Alderman Buddy Barnes
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   John Allen, Community Development Specialist
   Vickie Potter, Community Building Coordinator
   Gary Smith, Police Lieutenant
A)   Call to Order – 1:00 p.m.
Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 1:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Adams welcomed everyone and gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Adams led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Howard stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
D)   Announcements
   There were no announcements
E)   Public Comment
   Mr. Charles Warren, Chairman of the North Carolina Black Leadership Caucus,
asked the Board to consider releasing electrical customers Mrs. Becky Smith and
residents living on Dosher Cutoff to become customers of Brunswick Electric
Membership Corporation.
   Ms. Mary Friend, 306 Herring Drive, voiced her opinion that the Board
decision to change the time of the monthly meeting was not done properly. She
contended that the midday meetings would adversely affect business owners
unable to attend and parking would be problematic when the tourist traffic
increased during the summer months.
   Ms. Roberta Dosher, 210 W. Moore Street, made comments to the proposed
lighting changes noting the need for consistency, keeping the ambience and her
opinion that an industrial fixture is out of character for Southport. She
questioned if all property owners, who could be affected by the lighting
changes, had been notified.
F)   Approval of Agenda   
   Mayor Howard requested addition to the agenda; consideration of bids for
paving Northwood Cemetery roads and an update on the status of Rob Gandy
Boulevard.   
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Powell to approve the agenda as
amended.  Unanimous vote; motion carried.
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Powell to approve the consent
agenda. Unanimous vote; motion carried.   
   1.   Minutes for January 8, 2015 regular meeting minutes – approved
       Minutes for January 31, 2015 Retreat, including closed session minutes –
approved
   2.   Amend Audit Contract – approved (Contract on file in the Clerk’s
office)
   3.   Ratification of items considered at the workshop that were not put on
the agenda before the workshop: Response Letter to Duke Energy Progress; Noise
Ordinance Waiver for S.T. Wooten - approved
AGENDA
4.   Arbor Day Proclamation
City Clerk Windham read the Arbor Day Proclamation into the record.
Alderman Childs motioned, second by Alderman Poole to approve the Arbor Day
Proclamation. Unanimous vote; motioned carried.
ARBOR DAY PROCLAMATION
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1620_1366x1395.jpg]
 
WHEREAS, in 1972, J. Sterling Morton proposed to the Nebraska Board of
Agriculture that a special day be set aside for the planting of trees, and
WHEREAS, this holiday called Arbor Day, was first observed with the planting of
more than a million trees in Nebraska, and
WHEREAS, Arbor Day is now observed throughout the nation and the world, and
WHEREAS, trees can reduce the erosion of our precious topsoil by wind and
water, cut heating and cooling costs, moderate the temperature, clean the air,
produce life-giving oxygen, and provide habitat for wildlife, and
WHEREAS, trees are a renewable resource giving us paper, wood for our homes,
fuel for our fires, and beautify our community, and
WHEREAS, trees in our city increase property values, enhance the economic
vitality of business areas, and beautify our community, and
WHEREAS, trees wherever they are planted are a source of joy and spiritual
renewal.
NOW, THEREFORE, I Robert D. Howard, Mayor of the City of Southport, NC, do
hereby proclaim February 12, 2015 as ARBOR DAY in the City and urge all
citizens to celebrate and support efforts to protect our trees and woodlands,
and
FURTHER, I urge all citizens to plant trees to gladden the heart and promote
the well-being of this and future generations.
DATED, this 12th day of February, 2015.
                        By: /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
5.   Public Hearing; Rezoning
Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Childs to go into Public Hearing.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Mr. John Allen, Community Development Specialist, explained the proposed zoning
changes recommended by the Planning Board:
Address/Location            Current Zoning         Proposed Zoning
250 & 252 E. 11th Street          Business District (BD)       Office/
Institutional (O/I)
254 E. 11th Street             Residential (R-10)       O/I
John Smith Cemetery         R-10            Open Space (OS)
Northwood Cemetery & Jaycee Building   R-10            OS
Old Smithville Burying Ground
Franklin Square Park         R-10            OS
Lowe-White Park            R-10            OS
Kingsley Park            R-10            OS
Waterfront Park            R-10            OS
Waterfront along Bay Street east of
Davis Street            R-10            OS
Pump Station at foot of Lord Street      R-10            OS
Responding to a concern from Ms. Mary Friend as to how the zoning changes would
affect adjoining properties, Mr. Allen stated the proposed changes would not
affect any adjoining properties.
Alderman Childs motioned, second by Alderman Powell to come out of Public
Hearing. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
6.   Consideration of Rezoning
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Powell to approve the Ordinance
Granting Application for Zoning Map Amendment to rezone 254 E. 11th Street from
Residential (R-10) to Office/Institutional (O/I) and 250 & 252 E. 11th Street
from Business District (BD) to O/I. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
ORDINANCE GRANTING APPLICATION FOR ZONING MAP AMENDMENT
THAT WHEREAS, the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance, other land
use ordinances and a zoning map that control land development within both the
City’s incorporated areas and within its extraterritorial area; and
       WHEREAS, in order to promote the public health, safety and general
welfare and to promote the best interest of the city and community, it is
necessary for the City Board of Aldermen from time to time to consider
appropriate revisions, modifications and additions to the city’s zoning map;
and
       WHEREAS, the city staff has filed an application for a zoning map
amendment requesting that 254 East 11th Street be rezoned from Residential (R-
10) to Office/Institutional (O/I) and 250 and 252 East 11th Street be rezoned
from Business District (BD) to O/I; and
       WHEREAS, the Planning Board has thoroughly considered this matter and
has recommended that the application for zoning map amendment be approved; and
       WHEREAS, pursuant to N. C. General Statutes and city ordinances, a
public hearing, properly noticed, was held on February 12th, 2015, before the
Board of Aldermen regarding this issue; and
        WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen hereby finds that the recommendation of
the Planning Board that the property be rezoned from R-10 and BD to O/I is
consistent with the Southport CAMA Core Land Use Plan; and
       WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that the granting of this
application is reasonable and in the public interest in that (i) the tract at
254 East 11th Street is a non-conforming commercial use in residential zoning,
(ii) the tracts at 250 and 252 East 11th Street are not contiguous to other BD
zoning, (iii) the current use of the properties is allowable under O/I zoning;
       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that
254 East 11th Street be rezoned from R-10 to O/I and 250 and 252 East 11th
Street be rezoned from BD to O/I.
    This 12th day of February, 2015             City of Southport
                                          BY: /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
Alderman Childs motioned, second by Alderman Adams to approve the Ordinance
Granting Application for Zoning Map Amendment to rezone certain City owned
properties to Open Space. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
ORDINANCE GRANTING APPLICATION FOR ZONING MAP AMENDMENT
THAT WHEREAS, the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance, other land
use ordinances and a zoning map that control land development within both the
City’s incorporated areas and within its extraterritorial area; and
       WHEREAS, in order to promote the public health, safety and general
welfare and to promote the best interest of the city and community, it is
necessary for the City Board of Aldermen from time to time to consider
appropriate revisions, modifications and additions to the city’s zoning map;
and
       WHEREAS, the city staff has filed an application for a zoning map
amendment requesting that the following properties be rezoned from Residential
(R-10) to Open Space (OS): Lowe-White Park, Franklin Square Park, Waterfront
Park, City-owned waterfront land to the East of Davis Street, the pump station
at the foot of Lord Street, Old Smithville Burying Ground and adjacent pump
station, Northwood Cemetery and adjacent Jaycees Building, and John Smith
Cemetery; and
       WHEREAS, the Planning Board has thoroughly considered this matter and
has recommended that the application for zoning map amendment be approved; and
       WHEREAS, pursuant to N. C. General Statutes and city ordinances, a
public hearing, properly noticed, was held on February 12th, 2015, before the
Board of Aldermen regarding this issue; and
        WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen hereby finds that the recommendation of
the Planning Board that the properties be rezoned from R-10 to OS is consistent
with the Southport CAMA Core Land Use Plan; and
       WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that the granting of this
application is reasonable and in the public interest in that (i) the tracts are
a non-conforming use in residential zoning, (ii) the current use of the
properties is allowable under OS zoning;
       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that
above listed City-owned properties be rezoned from R-10 to OS.
    This 12th day of February, 2015             City of Southport
                                          BY: /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
7.   Public Hearing; Taxi Cab Application
Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Childs to go into Public Hearing.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Attorney Isenberg explained that the applicant has the burden of proof to
satisfy the Board regarding the following factors:
   (1)   Whether or not the public convenience and necessity require such
proposed or additional taxicab service within the city.
   (2)   The financial responsibility of the applicant and the likelihood of
the proposed service being permanent, responsible and satisfactory.
   (3)   The number and condition of equipment.
   (4)   The schedule of proposed rates, if required by the board to be
charged.
   (5)   The number of taxicabs now operated and the demand for increased
service, if any, and whether or not the safe use of the streets by the public,
both vehicular and pedestrian, will be preserved and whether or not adequate
provision has been made for off-street parking of such taxicabs.
   (6)   The experience of applicant in the taxicab business.
   (7)   Such other relative facts as may be deemed necessary and advisable.
Mr. Robert Edge and his wife explained to the Board their desire to start a
clean, reliable taxi cab service to benefit the community. Mr. Edge, responding
to Attorney Isenberg’s concerns relating to the status of Mr. Edge’s driver’s
license, stated he had applied to have his license renewed.
Mr. Robert Gainer, 415 W. West Street, stated his appreciation of
entrepreneurs.
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Childs to come out of Public
Hearing. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
8.   Consideration of Taxi Cab Application
Item referred to the Tourism Commission for further investigation and
recommendation.
9.   Beautification Committee Roundabout Improvements
Ms. Shirley Snyder, Chair, Beautification Committee, gave the Board an update
on the improvements made to the S. Howe Street planters. She publicly thanked
the 22 volunteers involved in the project, Phillips Nursery, Hoffman Eco Works,
local business owners, the Board, and city staff. She reported the remaining
planters will be planted when the weather allows.
Ms. Snyder made a presentation of a proposed planting plan for the E. Moore
Street and Ferry Road roundabout. She gave a detailed report of the plants
being recommended that are expected to stand up to the wind and salt, the
timeline for planting, placement of a 22 ft. old fishing boat as a centerpiece
and made a request of city staff to remove the existing vegetation, add a yard
of soil into each of the 4 island planters, check the integrity of the
irrigation system and water the 4 island plantings for the first year.
Ms. Snyder discussed the offers for donations of several components of the
plan, wholesale pricing received, and the estimated total cost of approximately
$2,000 that is not covered in the Beautification Committee budget.
Alderman Childs suggested looking for alternatives for funding. Alderman Childs
motioned, second by Alderman Poole to approve the requested preparation work
and plan concept. Unanimous vote; motion carried.  
10.   Request by Rebecca B. Smith to Become BEMC Customer
Mrs. Rebecca B. Smith, 5215 Southport-Supply Road presented her request for a
release from Southport Utilities in order to become a member of Brunswick
Electric Membership Corporation.
Introduction Remarks
a.   My name is Rebecca B. Smith
b.   I am a lifelong citizen of Brunswick County.
c.   I thank the Southport Board of Aldermen for this opportunity to petition
government for redress, which is my Constitutional right.
2.   The Situation
A.   I asked Brunswick Electric Cooperative to become a member and to begin
receiving its services.
B.   I was advised that I need to seek a release from the Southport Utilities
because the Southport Utilities could block my membership.
C.   I sought a release through the Mayor of Southport, He denied my request.
D.   I am left with this option of seeking an appeal through the City of
Southport Board of Aldermen
E.   Today, I am seeking an appeal to the Mayor’s decision to deny my right to
be released from the Southport Utilities jurisdiction.
F.   I have 3 point to make in support of my request.
3.   First Point is about Fair Representation
A.   I do not live in the City of Southport city limits.
B.   I am not afforded an opportunity to vote for the mayor, Board of Alderman
or other City officials.
C.   As a result, I fail to see the fairness of being subject to a government
agency where I have no voice.
D.   The City of Southport does not provide any municipal services to me. Not
fire, not police, not trash, not water, not sewage.
E.   It seems unreasonable to me to have a government where I have no
representation deny me a legal right to choose a utility of my choice.
F.   The Mayor’s decision should be reversed because the unilateral control of
my services resembles taxation with representation.
G.   On its face, this is fundamentally unfair.
4.   The Second Point is About Equal Protection
A.   As a US, NC, and Brunswick County citizen, I deserve equal protection
under the law.
B.   To me, this means that I should be treated like everyone else.
C.   Equal treatment means equal opportunities to pursue legal choices.
D.   The reason given to me by the Mayor when I sought a release was that if I
were released, others might also seek a release.
E.   It seems to me that government should have a set of standards that apply
to all citizens.
F.   No standards were offered by the Mayor.
G.   Without standards, the Mayor’s decision seems vague, arbitrary and
capricious.
H.   This is further aggravated then I have learned that my neighbors have been
given the option to become members of Brunswick Electric Cooperative.
I.   This is a fairness issue.
J.   I am not treated equal to other similarly situation citizens.
K.   The Mayor’s decision should be reversed because I deserve equal protection
under the law.
5.   My Final Point if About Public Policy.
A.   While I am the plaintiff for this request, the Southport Board of Alderman
should consider the public policy implications of your decision.
B.   This subject should be a matter of much interest to the community and the
press.
C.   If government of any kind can make decisions that unfairly affect a single
person, then other citizens are at risk of unfair treatment.
D.   I am not taking a stand for benefit of the community.
E.   I am but one person who believes her rights as a citizen have been
violated.
F.   But as you ponder how you will treat me as an individual, you should
consider the impression you leave with the community on how any persons will be
treated.
G.   For this reason, the Mayor’s decision to deny my release from the
Southport Utility should be reversed because his position is not a good public
policy.
6.   Summary
a.   Thank you again for hearing my complaint.
b.   I respectfully ask that the Mayor’s decision be reversed and that I be
granted a release from the Southport Utilities.
Mayor Howard remarked that the request is not a governmental action but a
utility provider action. He noted that the City has funded infrastructure that
is required to provide electricity in the city’s franchise area as designated
by the Utilities Commission. He stated his position that the city has an
obligation to serve the service area.
City Manager McDuffie explained the location of Ms. Smith’s residence, that the
electric service territories were established in the 1960’s by the N.C. General
Assembly, and the City purchases generation capacity based on the size of its
service area.
Alderman Coring pointed out that Ms. Smith’s residence is in the Southport Fire
Department district.
Alderman Powell noted that Ms. Smith lives 1.5 miles out of the city limits and
several neighboring properties, i.e. Rivermist Subdivision, Newbridge Bank and
Bella Cucina shopping center are within the city limits.
City Manager McDuffie and Attorney Isenberg verified that to their knowledge, a
release has never been made.
Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Childs to table the item in order
to get more information.
Discussion
Alderman Adams raised concerns about setting a precedent for release requests.
Alderman Coring requested staff provide a map of the service area.
Ayes:   Aldermen Coring, Childs, Powell, Adams
Nay:   Alderman Poole
Motion Carried 4-1
11.   Consideration of Accepting Phase I Jonas Creek Utilities and Streets
Mr. Allen explained the request for acceptance of the utilities and
infrastructure for Jonas Creek Phase I and the request to waive the one year
warranty bond requirement submitted by Cottage Point LLC. He stated that Mr.
David Fox, Public Works Director, had completed review of the documentation
submitted, performed a field walk of the site and he recommends the City accept
the utilities/infrastructure and holding the one year warranty bond on
workmanship and the streets.
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Powell to accept the utilities/
infrastructure for Jonas Creek Phase 1. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Adams to deny the bond request and
to retain a one year warranty bond. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
12.   ABC Appointment
Alderman Adams motioned, second by Alderman Poole to re-appoint Mr. William
Davis to the ABC Board. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
13.   NCDOT’s Request to Allow County to Design Sewer Line Relocation
City Manager McDuffie explained that the County has requested to redesign the
16” sewer line parallel to NC 211 from Dosher Cut Off to St. James since they
are responsible for the maintenance and the North Carolina Department of
Transportation (NCDOT) needs the City’s approval to allow the County to do the
redesign. Item deferred back to the City Manager for clarification that the
City has final approval of any alterations to city sewer lines.
14.   Consideration of Approval of Street Lights
Item deferred back to the City Manager for clarification of fixtures quoted in
the material provided in the agenda packet.
15.   Consideration of Hanging a Banner to Promote
“America’s Happiest Seaside Town”
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Childs to approve hanging the
banner to promote “America’s Happiest Seaside Town.” The contest is the fourth
annual for Coastal Living Magazine.  Unanimous vote; motion carried.
16.   Rob Gandy Boulevard
Mayor Howard provided an update on Rob Gandy Boulevard stating the road is
essentially complete and a final inspection is scheduled. He praised the
public/private endeavor and he expressed appreciation to Capital Power for
funding the construction of the road that will bring much needed traffic
congestion relief. He anticipated an official opening in the near future.
17.   Northwood Cemetery
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Powell to approve paving the roads
in Northwood Cemetery, accepting the bid from Thompson Landscape &
Construction, Inc. for $35,200 to perform the work and approving Budget
Amendment #9. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Budget Amendment #9
Fiscal Year 2014-2015
WHEREAS the Board of Aldermen for the City of Southport approved the
Improvements to the Roads in the Northwood Cemetery.
WHEREAS, the work can be completed in the current budget year; and
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2014-2015 needs to be amended to
reflect the revenues and appropriations necessary to allow use of these funds;
and
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2014-2015 shall be
amended as follows:
General FUND         Previous Amount         Increase      Amended Amount
Revenues
Fund Balance Appropriation         $ 0         $ 35,700      $ 35,700
10-3991-0000
Appropriations
Capital Outlay Buildings & Grounds      $ 5,500         $ 35,700      $ 41,200
10-4190-5800
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, February 12,
2015.
                           By: /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
Staff Comments
City Manager McDuffie announced that the City has been awarded a $50,000 grant
towards repairs to the Lord Street Gym. He thanked the Parks & Recreation
Director, Ms. Heather Hemphill, for preparing an excellent grant submittal.
City Manager McDuffie reported that staff is researching if enough funds remain
in the 1029 building capital budget for purchase of a generator for that
building.
18.   Closed Session per G.S. 143-318.11(a) (6) for Discussion of Personnel
Issues
2:19 p.m.
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Poole to go into Closed Session
pursuant to G.S. 143-318.11 (a) (6) for discussion of personnel issues.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Return to Open Session – 2:55 p.m.
Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Powell to come out of Closed
Session. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Mayor Howard reported that the performance evaluation of the City Manager had
been completed and the next step is to meet with him and convey the Board’s
appraisal of him.
Mayor Howard emphasized the need for sufficient information in order to make
decisions and to take action. He stated it should be a rarity to table an issue
for additional information. He suggested that Board members review the agenda
packets when they first receive them and advise staff if further information is
needed. He encouraged staff to be better prepared.
Adjournment- 3:00 p.m.
      Alderman Powell moved to adjourn the meeting, second by Alderman Childs.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.   
                        /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:   /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
MARCH 12, 2015
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING MARCH 12, 2015
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
PRESENT:         Mayor Robert D. Howard
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Mary “Meezie” Childs,
            Nelson Adams, Todd Coring, Jim Powell, Buddy Barnes
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   Jerry Dove, Police Chief
   David Fox, Public Works Director
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   John Allen, Community Development Specialist
   Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
   Vickie Potter, Community Building Coordinator
A)   Call to Order – 1:00 p.m.
Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 1:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Barnes welcomed everyone and Chief Drew gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Barnes led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Howard stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
D)   Announcements
There were no announcements.
E)   Public Comment
   Ms. Florence Mason, 111 N. Lord Street, spoke about a large tree in the
right-of-way that is dropping limbs and has been declared dead by Carolina Tree
Company. Ms. Mason requested removal of the tree.  City Manager McDuffie
indicated the Public Works Director had inspected the tree and staff is
soliciting quotes for removal of the tree.
F)   Approval of Agenda
   Mayor Howard requested consideration of a recommendation from the Waterfront
Steering Committee and a Closed Session be added to the agenda.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to approve the agenda as
amended.  Unanimous vote; motion carried.
G)   SPECIAL RECOGNITION
   A special tribute was made to Captain George R. “Dickie” Marlow of the
Southport Fire Department. Department personnel, clad in dress uniforms, were
in attendance to honor Captain Marlow and Ladder Truck #362, ladder extended,
was on display along the waterfront. Chief Charles Drew spoke of Dickie’s 55
years of dedicated service to the community, his perfect attendance to every
call and his 29 years as operator of Ladder Truck #362. Assistant Chief Coring
read the Resolution Honoring Capt. George R. (Dickie) Marlow. He and Chief Drew
presented the Resolution and a plaque commemorating Captain Marlow’s service to
his nephew, Retired Assistant Chief Larry Brown.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to adopt the Resolution
honoring Captain George R. (Dickie) Marlow and to dedicate Ladder Truck #362 to
Captain Marlow. Unanimous vote; motion carried.[https://export.amlegal.com/
media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/IMAGES/0-0-0-1660.gif]
Resolution
Honoring
Capt. George R. (Dickie) Marlow
55 years of Service on Southport Fire Department
WHEREAS, George R. (Dickie) Marlow has served the City of Southport and the
community since 1960 as a member of the Fire Department and was elected to the
position of Captain in 1989 to the present, and
WHEREAS, Captain Marlow is being honored by the Board of Alderman, community,
and citizens for his loyal, faithful, and dedicated contributions to the
Southport Fire Department, and
WHEREAS, the performance of his duties and responsibilities were always
characterized by his commitment, fast response, and responding to every call
for assistance for many years, and
WHEREAS, Capt. Marlow is steadfast in his devotion to duty, which has a
valuable effect on the efficiency and professionalism within the Southport Fire
Department and its membership.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that Mayor Robert D. Howard and the Southport
Board of Alderman express its sincere appreciation for 55 years of service to
the City of Southport Fire Department.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Mayor Robert D. Howard and the Board of Alderman
proclaims March 13, 2015 as “Dickie Marlow Day” in the City of Southport, NC
and further urge all citizens to join in acknowledgement of grateful
appreciation for a lifetime of unselfish and dedicated service to the citizens
of the Southport Community and Southport Fire Department.
Presented, this 12th day of March 2015.
/s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Recess to view Fire Truck #362 dedicated to Captain Marlow.
Meeting reconvened by Mayor Howard – 1:24 p.m.
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to approve the consent
agenda. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   1.   Minutes for January 8, 2015 workshop meeting minutes – approved
       Minutes for February 12, 2015 regular meeting minutes – approved
AGENDA
2.   Public Hearing; Zoning Reclassification for 621 N. Fodale Avenue
Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Powell to go into Public Hearing.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Mr. Allen explained that staff had discovered the zoning for 621 North Fodale
Avenue was inconsistent with the adjoining properties and not applicable to the
current use. An application for Zoning Reclassification was submitted by Larry
L. Hemby, DDS to change the zoning from multi- family (MF) to office/
institutional (O/I). Mr. Allen indicated the Planning Board had considered the
request and found it consistent with the Southport CAMA Core Land Use Plan and
recommended approval of the zoning change.
No one from the public spoke.
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Childs to come out of Public
Hearing. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   3.   Consideration of Rezoning   
   Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Coring to adopt the Ordinance
for Zoning Map Amendment and approve the zoning reclassification as presented.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
ORDINANCE GRANTING APPLICATION FOR ZONING MAP AMENDMENT
THAT WHEREAS, the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance, other land
use ordinances and a zoning map that control land development within both the
City’s incorporated areas and within its extraterritorial area; and
      WHEREAS, in order to promote the public health, safety and general
welfare and to promote the best interest of the city and community, it is
necessary for the City Board of Aldermen from time to time to consider
appropriate revisions, modifications and additions to the city’s zoning map;
and
      WHEREAS, the property owner has filed an application for a zoning map
amendment requesting that 621 N. Fodale Avenue be rezoned from Multi-Family
(MF) to Office/Institutional (O/I); and
      WHEREAS, the Planning Board has thoroughly considered this matter and
finds the proposed amendment to the Unified Development Ordinance to be
consistent with the City of Southport CAMA Core Land Use Plan and recommend
their approval; and
      WHEREAS, pursuant to North Carolina General Statutes and city ordinances,
a public hearing, properly noticed, was held on March 12th, 2015, before the
Board of Aldermen regarding this issue; and
       WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen hereby finds that the recommendation of
the Planning Board that the property be rezoned from MF to O/I is consistent
with the City of Southport CAMA Core Land Use Plan; and
      WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that the granting of this
application is reasonable and in the public interest in that (i) the tract at
621 N. Fodale Avenue is a non-conforming commercial use in residential zoning,
(ii) the current use of the property is allowable under O/I zoning, and (iii)
the use of the property is compatible with adjoining properties;
      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that
621 N. Fodale Avenue be rezoned from MF to O/I.
This, the 12th day of March, 2015
                                          City of Southport
BY: /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
4.   Public Hearing; Unified Development Ordinance (UDO) Text Amendment
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Childs to go into Public Hearing.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.   
Mr. Allen explained that the newly enacted North Carolina Statute, G.S. 160A-
383.5 required zoning approval of “temporary health care structures” in single-
family areas provided there is a qualifying need, the structure qualifies and a
set of regulatory requirements are met;
Temporary Healthcare Structure. A temporary structure no more than 300 gross
square feet that will house a single mentally or physically impaired person.
Structure must be assembled off-site and meet the standards of the State
Building Code. It must not be placed on a permanent foundation and may be
required to connect to water, sewer and electric utilities. Only one such
structure is permitted per lot. Subject to all requirements of North Carolina
General Statute 160A-383.5.
Mr. Allen pointed out that an annual permit must be obtained for the structure
and once the need no longer exists, the structure has to be removed. Noting the
high cost of the structures, Mr. Allen stated he did not foresee a demand for
them. He indicated the Planning Board had found that meeting the requirements
of G.S. 160A-383.5 was consistent with the Southport CAMA Core Land Use Plan
and recommended that the Board of Aldermen adopt amendments to Article 2 & 10
of the Unified Development Ordinance.
No one from the public spoke.
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Adams to come out of Public
Hearing. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
5.   Consideration of UDO Text Amendment
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Childs to adopt the Ordinance and
approve the UDO Text Amendments as presented. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   AN ORDINANCE APPROVING TEXT AMENDMENTS TO THE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
THAT WHEREAS, the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance and other
land use ordinances that control land development within both the City’s
incorporated areas and within its extraterritorial area; and
      WHEREAS, in order to promote the public health, safety and general
welfare and to promote the best interest of the city and community, it is
necessary for the City Board of Aldermen from time to time to consider
appropriate revisions, modifications and additions to the city’s land use
ordinances; and
   WHERAS, City Staff, in conjunction with the Planning Board, has prepared
proposed amendments to Article 2 and Article 10 of the Southport Unified
Development Ordinance; and
   WHEREAS, the Planning Board has thoroughly considered this matter and find
the proposed amendments to the Unified Development ordinance to be consistent
with the City of Southport CAMA Core Land Use Plan and recommend their
approval; and
   WHEREAS, pursuant to N.C. General Statutes and city ordinances, a public
hearing, properly noticed, was held on March 12, 2015, before the Board of
Aldermen regarding this issue; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen, after considering the public hearing
response and the recommendation of the Planning Board, hereby find that these
proposed amendments to the Unified Development Ordinance are consistent with
the Southport CAMA Core Land Use Plan; and
   WHERAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that these amendments are
reasonable and in the public interest in that they are necessary in order to
ensure consistency with recent changes to North Carolina General Statutes
related to temporary health care structures.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that the
attached amendments to Articles 2 and 10 of the Southport Unified Development
Ordinance are hereby approved and adopted.
   This, the 12th day of March, 2015.               City of Southport
                        By: /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
   6.   Marry Me Military Use of Community Building
Ms. Potter reported that she had received a request for Southport to
participate in the Marry Me Military event to honor a military couple with a
free wedding on Veterans Day, November 11, 2015. She indicated the city had
previously participated in the program and vendors in the area provide free
services.
Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Coring to authorize the use of the
Community Building anytime the facility is available.
Discussion
Alderman Childs and Adams requested clarification of when the Community
Building would be used. Ms. Potter explained the request is for an annual use
only on Veterans Day.
Alderman Barnes amended his motion, second by Alderman Coring to authorize the
use of the Community Building once a year when requested for participation in
the Marry Me Military event. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   7.   Update on Happiest Seaside Town Campaign
Tourism Director, Cindy Brochure, reported she had promoted Southport for the
Happiest Seaside Town contest through online channels and at the Governor’s
Conference. She indicated she had gained support from various elected officials
and Southport had appeared on national television segments. She stated the
status of the voting was unavailable and the winner would be published in the
June/July edition of the magazine. She said a promotional push would be made
the last week of voting.
8.    Consideration of Accepting Cades Cove Phase 2 & 4 Water and Sewer
Public Works Director, David Fox, reported that the Cades Cove Subdivision had
submitted a request for acceptance of the water and sewer infrastructure for
Phase 2 & 4. He indicated that all permits are in place, all specifications are
met, the pump station is in position and staff is recommending acceptance.
Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Aldermen Poole to accept the water and
sewer infrastructure of Cades Cove Phase 2 & 4 Unanimous vote; motion carried.
9.   Sale of City-Owned Lot in Boiling Spring Lakes  
Mr. Allen explained that the City had acquired a .40 acre residential building
lot in Boiling Spring Lakes from Southport Baptist Church in 1984. He indicated
that staff did not foresee any potential use of the property by the City. He
pointed out that the lot, at 1385 Grace Road, has a tax value of $10,000,
recent sales of similar lots have sold for $8,000 - $9,000, and there are no
restrictions in the deed prohibiting sale of the property. He stated that staff
is recommending that the Board declare the property to be surplus and authorize
staff to solicit an offer on the property subject to the upset bid provisions
of G.S. 160A-269.
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to declare the property
surplus and authorize staff to solicit bids per G.S. 160A-269. Unanimous vote;
motion carried.
Mr. Allen also reported that he had begun the process of selling eight (8)
surplus vehicles through GovDeals.com with two (2) of the vehicles currently
posted on the website until March 16.
10.   Request by Mrs. Becky Smith to become BEMC Customer
Item died for lack of a motion.
11.   Electrical Substation Upgrade
City Manager McDuffie advised the Board that the Duke Energy Progress electric
substation at Fodale Avenue and Howe Street is in need of upgrading. He stated
the electricity to the entire city will be turned off for approximately two or
three hours and the outage is expected to take place in mid-May between the
hours of midnight and 3:00 a.m. Manager McDuffie indicated the exact time of
the outage will be advertised when the schedule is finalized.
12.   Funding Roundabout Improvements
Alderman Childs reported that the Beautification Committee was unable to secure
a sponsor for the planting material for the E. Moore Street/Ferry Road
roundabout improvements.
Mayor Howard emphasized the value of the planned improvements, noting the free
labor, professional installation and expertise of those involved in the
project.
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to authorize up to $2,000
for the plantings for the roundabout. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
13.   Beautification Committee Presentation for Sailboat Christmas Decorations
Ms. Shirley Snyder, Chair, Beautification Committee, gave a brief update on the
status of the Roundabout improvements; detailing on the boat continues,
placement of the boat in the roundabout is expected within a week and planting
will take place on April 11.
Ms. Snyder presented the three-part process for acquisition of sailboat
wreaths.
Part 1:   Acquire 60 5’6” diameter sailboat wreaths at a negotiated price of
$29,995 from Mosca Design.
5 year guarantee
Funded through Beautification Committee fundraising and backed by the City
Major gifts work completed by May 14
Public phase of fundraising to commence May 15
Possible kick-off party
Presence at Wednesday market on the Garrison lawn
Promotional help from Southport Tourism Department and State Port Pilot
Fundraising chaired by Vicky Riley
Part 2: Determine if current wreaths can be refurbished for use.
Part 3: Unify the look throughout the city; e.g. light the Franklin Square Park
tree similar to the lighting used on the tree at Fire Headquarters.
Ms. Snyder requested the City underwrite the purchase of the wreaths with
issuance of a purchase order prior to March 27 in order to get the lowest
quoted price.
Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Powell to issue a purchase order
prior to March 27 to Mosca Design in the amount of $29,995 for purchase of 60
sailboat wreaths. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
14.   Consideration of Taxi Cab Application
Chief Dove, member of the Tourism Commission, presented the commission’s
findings for the Application for Permit to Operate Taxicab submitted by Robert
A. Edge, 4387 Flagship Avenue;
Currently two taxicab companies operate within the City of Southport
Unable to determine the financial responsibility of the applicant without doing
a credit check or business rating.
No information was provided regarding the number of taxicabs or the type or
condition of equipment.
No rates schedule was attached to the application.
Documentation missing:
Copy of valid NC licenses
Certificate of General Liability
Name of drivers along with criminal background check and driving record
Name and phone number of taxicab company
Schedule of rates
Description of hours of operation
Federal tax ID
State tax ID
Additional Findings
Applicant does not hold a valid NC driver’s license
Applicant has past criminal record
Applicant has pending “assault on a female” charges
Chief Dove indicated the recommendation of the Commission was there was not a
need for another taxi cab service in Southport
Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Childs to accept the
recommendation of the Tourism Commission. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
15.   Stevens Park Lease Extension
Mayor Howard explained that Alderman Powell had secured a two year extension of
the lease for Stevens Park from Bald Head Island, LLC. with the extension under
the same terms as the original lease dated August 8, 2013.
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Coring to extend the Stevens Park
Lease as provided. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
EXTENSION
OF BALL PARK LEASE AGREEMENT
STEVENS PARK PROPERTY – SOUTHPORT, NC
   THIS EXTENSION OF BALL PARK LEASE AGREEMENT, made and entered into this 1st
day of March, 2015, by and between CITY OF SOUTHPORT, a North Carolina
municipal corporation (“Tenant” or “City”), and BALD HEAD ISLAND LIMITED, LLC,
a Texas limited liability company (“Landlord” or “Owner”);
WITNESSETH:
   For and in consideration of the rents to be paid by Tenant to Landlord and
the mutual promises and covenants contained in the Ball Park Lease agreement as
hereby extended, the parties hereto agree that the Ball Park Lease Agreement
for 3.27 acres of land in Stevens Park, Southport, North Carolina, dated as of
the 8th day of August, 2013, a copy of which Lease agreement is attached
hereto, by and between City of Southport as Tenant and Bald Head Island
Limited, LLC as Landlord, shall be extended by mutual agreement of the parties
for an additional twenty-four (24) month period beyond its current term which
expires on August 8, 2015, thereby ending on the 8th day of August, 2017,
subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein.
   The parties understand, acknowledge and agree that, beginning August 9,
2015, the Base Rent payable by Tenant shall be one and 00/100 ($1.00) dollars
per year.
   Except as otherwise set forth herein, the aforesaid Ball Park Lease
Agreement shall remain in effect, and the parties that they will continue to
perform and be bound by the terms, provisions and conditions thereof applicable
to them as Landlord and Tenant, respectively.
   WITNESS the following signatures of the parties’ duly authorized
representatives.
LANDLORD/OWNER:                  TENANT/CITY:
Bald Head Island Limited, LLC               City of Southport
By:   /s/ Charles A. Paul, III               By: /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
   Date: March 1, 2015               Date: March 12, 2015
16.   Request from Waterfront Steering Committee
Mayor Howard read the request submitted by the Waterfront Steering Committee:
“We ask the Board of Aldermen only consider attractive lighting that is in
keeping with the beauty of Southport.”
City Manager McDuffie reported that he is awaiting prices from Brunswick
Electric Membership Corp (BEMC) who is awaiting prices from their supplier on
decorative arms that can be mounted to aluminum polies in a 130 mph wind zone.
City Manager McDuffie stated he anticipates having the pricing information for
the April Board meeting.
17.   Financial Update
Finance Director, Melanie Trexler, provided the Board with detailed Balance
Sheets, Income Statements and Bank Reconciliation for the period ending January
31, 2015. The information was broken down by fund, department and line item.
She pointed out that the city was in sound financial condition. She stated the
financial software is being upgraded which she anticipated would allow more
timely reporting to the Aldermen. 
Closed Session – 2:34 p.m.
   Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Powell to go into Closed
Session pursuant to N.C.G.S. 143-318.11(a)(3) to consult with the city attorney
and pursuant to N.C.G.S. 143-18.11(a)(6) to discuss specific personnel.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Resume Open Session – 3:00 p.m.
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to come out of Closed
Session. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Mayor Howard reported the Board discussed specific personnel and received
advice from the attorney about contracting of services.
Mayor Howard pointed out that the city has a sewer district and governing
ordinance that provides for the city to furnish services inside the city and to
new developments that annex into the city. He asked the Chairman of the Utility
Committee and Chairman of the Rate Committee to review the sewer rates for
major developments to assure the city’s rates are competitive with the rates of
Brunswick County.
The Board discussed exploring options for funding an estimated $15M to $18M
infrastructure project to put the city’s electrical transmission lines
underground. Attorney Isenberg shared information about legislation several
communities had obtained for special assessment authority for underground
placement of electric, cable and telephone lines.
Mayor Howard gave the Board an update on the status of sewer allocation;
Oak Island has not made a decision with regard to selling a portion of their
sewer allocation.
The County is implementing an engineering study on expansion of the Supply
plant.
Mayor Howard stated his opinion that the county will continue to work with the
city to assure the city has sufficient allocation to serve its future
customers.
Mayor Howard noted there is parking congestion at City Hall. He suggested that
all city vehicles be parked either at the end of the parking lot or on the
street.
Alderman Barnes asked City Manager McDuffie to determine if it is permissible
for semi-trucks to drive on the residential streets of Fodale and Stuart
Avenues and, if not, to post the streets accordingly.
Recess- 3:24 p.m.
   Alderman Powell moved to recess the meeting to Friday, March 20 at 2:00
p.m., second by Alderman Childs. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
            
                        ____________________________       
                         Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:   __________________
    Clerk
MARCH 20, 2015
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING MARCH 20, 2015
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
PRESENT:         Mayor Robert D. Howard
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Nelson Adams, Todd Coring,
            Jim Powell, Buddy Barnes
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Jerry Dove, Police Chief
   David Fox, Public Works Director
   Cindy Brochure, Tourism & Economic Development Director
   Vickie Potter, Community Building Coordinator
A)   Call Back to Order – 2:00 p.m.
Mayor Howard called the meeting back to order at 2:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
In lieu of the invocation, the Board paid tribute to Alderman Meezie Childs who
passed away unexpectedly March 15. A single white rose representing Alderman
Childs stood in a vase at her seat along with a picture of her. Her seat was
adorned with a black ribbon. Each Alderman and Mayor placed a red rose in the
vase to accompany the white rose. The Board observed a moment of silence and
shared personal sentiments, memories and anecdotes of their friend and
colleague.
The City Clerk read into the record;
Resolution
In Memory of
Mary Louise Herring Childs
WHEREAS, the City of Southport Mayor, Board of Aldermen and employees mark with
sympathy the passing of Mary Louise Herring Childs; and
WHEREAS, Mary Childs served as Alderman of the City of Southport, and exercised
sound judgment and a wise and kindly counsel, endearing herself to her
associates; and
WHEREAS, Meezie, as she was affectionately known, dedicated her life to
community service, family, church, and rendering efficient, faithful and
invaluable service in all she undertook as social worker, florist, and local
business owner; and
WHEREAS, we mourn her loss and extend to the Child’s family this expression of
our condolences and with knowledge that her passing will leave an unfilled void
in the minds and hearts of all those who knew her personally; and
WHEREAS, we sincerely hope that you will be comforted by the memories of your
loved one and her life, and all who mourn with you; and
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that Mayor Robert D. Howard and the Southport
Board of Aldermen convey to the Child’s family this Resolution in Memory of
Meezie, evidencing our deepest grief and sympathy; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that we urge all citizens to join with the Southport
Board of Aldermen in honoring a faithful and dedicated citizen on this the 20th
day of March 2015.
/s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
   /s/ Nelson Adams, Alderman       /s/ James Powell, Alderman
   /s/ Todd Coring, Alderman      /s/ Buddy Barnes, Alderman
/s/ Mary Ellen Poole, Mayor Pro Tem
C)   Announcements
   Mayor Howard reported that the Board had met with Senator Bill Rabon and
Representative Frank Iler to discuss Southport’s legislative goals;
Locate a source of funding for the waterfront redevelopment; similar to what
beach communities can do with their oceanfront projects through occupancy
taxes.
Represent Southport in providing that the North Carolina Department of
Transportation (NCDOT) install curb cuts at J. Swain Boulevard and the new Long
Beach Road extension to provide a second access to the Rivermist neighborhood.
Expedite the widening of Dutchman Creek Bridge to four lanes.
Work with NCDOT to expedite the opening of Rob Gandy Boulevard.
Provide for Southport employees to be eligible to join the State Health
insurance plan.
Reinstate the privilege license fee at a moderate rate.
   Mayor Howard announced that the Board had completed the performance
evaluation of the city manager. He stated that he and Alderman Poole had met
with the manager and the results of the evaluation were average to above
average.
   Mayor Howard commented that Alderman Poole had accepted the position of
secretary for the 4th of July Committee. He noted that Aldermen Coring and
Poole represent the Board on the Committee, and on behalf of the Board, he
expressed appreciation for their efforts.
   Mayor Howard announced that a Human Resources seminar would be held April 2
and City Manager McDuffie along with Human Resources Technician, Teresa Mosley,
have been instructed to attend. Mayor Howard pointed out the importance of
keeping up to date on personnel issues. He commended Ms. Mosley’s job
performance and directed she present a report on the seminar during the Board’s
April regular meeting.
   Mayor Howard stated he had received a request asking if citizens could
prepay for a boat Christmas wreath and the city would add the purchase to its
order. Board consensus to permit the purchase under advisement from the city
attorney.
AGENDA
Mayor Howard stated the purpose of the recessed meeting was to allow the
Chairmen of the Rate and Utility Committees an opportunity to examine the
city’s sewer rates and to report back to the Board on ways to make the rates
more competitive with the rates of Brunswick County.
Mayor Howard requested discussion of health care insurance to the agenda. City
Manager McDuffie requested consideration of tree trimming. Alderman Powell
requested addition of a closed session pursuant to N.C.G.S. 143-318.11(a)
(6) to discuss specific personnel.
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to amend the agenda.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Tree Trimming
City Manager McDuffie reported that all FY 2014-2015 funds had been expended
for tree trimming. He stated requests had been made for cutting trees on Lord
and West Streets and trimming trees in Northwood Cemetery to allow for paving
of the roads.
Mr. David Fox, Public Works Director, reported he had obtained three prices for
trimming the trees in Northwood Cemetery and cutting and stump grinding trees
at 304 W. West Street and 111 N. Lord Street. He stated the trees on Lord and
West Streets are large, pose a major safety concern, and need to be removed.
Alderman Barnes questioned if entering into a contract with a specific company
for tree services would result in a discounted rate.
Mayor Howard noted that Southport residents have inquired about piggybacking on
a city contract for similar services.
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to authorize a budget
amendment in the amount of $7,850 for tree trimming in Northwood Cemetery and
cutting trees at 304 W. West Street and 111 Lord Street. Unanimous vote; motion
carried.
Sewer Rates
Alderman Powell reported that the Chairs of the Utility and Rate Committees had
been unable to review the sewer impact rates due to extenuating circumstances.
Mayor Howard emphasized the responsibility of addressing the rates in order to
be competitive and provide service to potential developments. He recommended
recessing the meeting to allow time for the Chairs to meet and to report back
to the Board.
Alderman Powell, Barnes and City Manager McDuffie scheduled to meet on March
21.
Board Visit to Childs’ Residence – 3:00 p.m.
While remaining in session, the Board walked to the residence of Mr. Bob
Childs, 109 S. Atlantic Avenue. Mr. Childs and his family were presented with
the roses and the Resolution in Memory of Mary Louise Herring Childs.
Health Care Insurance
City Manager McDuffie reported that the city’s health insurance carrier had
presented a 25% rate increase for FY 2015-2016.
Alderman Coring noted that the rising cost of health care is being felt by all
entities and he shared his employer’s approach to the issue with an emphasis on
an open line of communication to all employees. He recommended looking at
options, holding a workshop for employees and he offered his assistance.
Alderman Barnes suggested exploring a partnership with Dosher Memorial Hospital
for a wellness clinic to offer standard services, e.g. blood tests, seeing a
nurse practitioner vs. seeing a doctor for minor health maladies.
Alderman Powell indicated that Alderman Childs had been in contact with Tom
Siemers, Dosher Memorial Hospital President & CEO. City Manager McDuffie
indicated he would contact Mr. Siemers.
The Board directed the City Manager to keep all employees advised of health
care issues, put together options for participating in the State Insurance
Plan, get options from the current provider for different types of coverage and
have a workshop to present options to the Board and invite employees to attend.
Closed Session – 3:26 p.m.
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to go into Closed Session
pursuant to N.C.G.S. 143-318.11(a) (6) for discussion of specific personnel.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Return to Open Session – 4:05 p.m.
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to come out of Closed
Session. Unanimous vote; motion carried. 
Mayor Howard reported that a specific personnel matter was brought to the
Board’s attention and would need further discussion.
Mayor Howard outlined the State Statute requirements for filling a vacancy on
the Board. He pointed out that the Board can appoint someone to fill the
vacancy up to the next scheduled city election.
Mayor Howard disclosed his unfavorable experience with the city’s Finance
Department regarding a payment transaction. He encouraged staff to be more
considerate and familiar with the citizens of Southport.
Recess- 4:16 p.m.
   Alderman Barnes moved to recess the meeting to Monday, March 23, 6:00 p.m.,
second by Alderman Powell. Unanimous vote; motion carried.   
                        ____________________________   
                            Mayor
Attest:   _________________________
      Clerk
MARCH 23, 2015
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING MARCH 23, 2015
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
PRESENT:         Mayor Robert D. Howard
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Nelson Adams, Todd Coring,
            Jim Powell, Buddy Barnes
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Cindy Brochure, Economic Development & Tourism Director
A)   Call Back to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Howard called the meeting back to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Announcements
   Tourism Director, Cindy Brochure, displayed a full page ad scheduled to run
in the State Port Pilot to promote the final days of voting in the 4th annual
Coastal Living Magazine contest, for Southport as America’s Happiest Seaside
Town. She stated the block party event would be held Friday, March 27, 5:00 –
7:00 p.m. at Big Al’s Slam Dunk BBQ, 607 N. Howe Street with free food, live
music by Guy Phillips & Rev Dippermouth, a display of classic cars from the
Cape Fear Cruisers and a live remote broadcast by 93.7/106.3 FM, “The Dude,”
sponsored by Yost & Yost/Margaret Rudd Realty. Ms. Brochure also announced that
the Fire Department would be hosting a “Tweet & Eat” pizza party for high
school students, Saturday, March 28, 4:30 p.m.
   On behalf of the Board, Mayor Howard expressed appreciation for Ms.
Brochure’s leadership and the many volunteers promoting the contest.
AGENDA
Mayor Howard stated the purpose of the recessed meeting was to allow the
Chairmen of the Rate and Utility Committees an opportunity to examine the
city’s sewer rates and to report back to the Board on ways to make the rates
more competitive with the rates of Brunswick County.
Sewer Rates
Alderman Powell reported that he and Alderman Barnes had met and reviewed the
sewer impact rates. He stated they focused on the allocation and related impact
fees with a recommendation of $20/gallon for single family dwelling (sfd)
development on over two (2) acres. Alderman Barnes noted the rate would not
change for development on less than 2 acres.
The Board reviewed examples provided of the proposed rates vs the rates of
Brunswick County and discussed the need to set the rates at an amount that
would be competitive and reasonable.
Alderman Barnes motioned to adopt an amendment to Appendix A, Wastewater
Allocation Impact Fee Schedule to change the single family dwelling (SFD)
development wastewater impact fee from $30/gallon to $20/gallon and to amend
the third paragraph to read;
“For proposed new subdivided development on less than 2 acres (including the
division of existing lots
plated at the time of the initiation of this schedule), duplex or multi-family
development, or any other
development where a wastewater utility system extension permit is required
where plans are approved
by the City subsequent to the adoption of this schedule, the following shall
apply:”
There was no second to the motion.
The Board further evaluated the rate differential between the city and county
to arrive at an equitable rate.
Alderman Barnes amended his motion to adopt an amendment to Appendix A,
Wastewater Allocation Impact Fee Schedule to change the single family dwelling
(SFD) development wastewater impact fee from $30/gallon to $16.50/gallon, and
amend paragraph three. Second by Alderman Powell. Unanimous vote; motion
carried.
Operation & Maintenance of Sewer Operating System
   City Manager McDuffie reported he had a discussion with Brunswick County
Manager Ann Hardy, regarding the county doing operation and maintenance (O&M)
of the city’s sewer operating system. He stated Ms. Hardy indicated the county
had taken ownership of the Sunset Beach system, including debt, cash and
associated assets, and would prefer a similar deal with the city. She advised
him that the first step would be for county employees to do an assessment of
the city’s system.
   City Manager McDuffie advised the Board that, after his meeting with Ms.
Hardy, it came to his attention that city employees had been informed that the
County was taking over O&M for the city. He indicated he had met with city
employees, this date, to help alleviate their anxiety and render them more
comfortable with the events that had occurred.
   Mayor Howard pointed out that the Board had no intention of relinquishing
ownership of the city’s sewer system.
Closed Session – 6:35 p.m.
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to go into Closed Session
pursuant to N.C.G.S. 143-318.11(a) (6) for discussion of specific personnel.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Return to Open Session – 6:59 p.m.
Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Powell to come out of Closed
Session. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Mayor Howard reported that the Board finalized comments on the City Manager
review process and took no action in closed session.
Mayor Howard stated his hope that someone could be found that is compatible
with the Board and represents Alderman Childs position to serve the eight
months until fall elections. He pointed out that the Board, together with
staff, had accomplished many undertakings by working together.
Responding to a query by Alderman Coring, Mayor Howard stated that Board
members would nominate candidate(s) from Ward I for the Board to vote on.
Alderman Coring publicly thanked the Board for the support the city gave the
fire department during funeral services for Dickie Marlow
Adjournment- 7:06 p.m.
Alderman Coring moved to adjourn the meeting, second by Alderman Powell.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
                        ______________________________
                         Mayor
Attest:   ________________________
       Clerk
APRIL 9, 2015
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING APRIL 9, 2015
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
PRESENT:         Mayor Robert D. Howard
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Nelson Adams, Todd Coring,
            Jim Powell, Buddy Barnes
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
   Jerry Dove, Police Chief
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   David Fox, Public Works Director
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
   Cindy Brochure, Tourism & Economic Development Director
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   John Allen, Community Development Specialist
   Teresa Mosley, Human Resources Technician
   Vickie Potter, Community Building Coordinator
A)   Call to Order – 1:00 p.m.
Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 1:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Coring welcomed everyone and gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Coring led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Public Comment
   Ms. Shirley Snyder, 5120 Prices Creek Drive, representing the Beautification
Committee, spoke about the measures taken by the committee, working in
conjunction with the Waterfront Steering Committee, reviewing options for
lighting at the Yacht Basin and on the waterfront.
   Mr. Harley Lemons, 6228 Navigator Way, asked the Board to reconsider moving
the time of their regular monthly meetings back to 6:00 p.m. He pointed out
that Board appointed committees’ meeting times were scheduled to coincide with
the later meeting time.
   Mr. Ed Boguskie, 502 W. Brown Street, stated his support for Ms. Regina
Alexander as a candidate for the vacant seat on the Board.
   Ms. Regina Alexander, 130 Stuart Avenue, retired city clerk, submitted her
name for consideration to fill the vacant seat on the Board.
E)   Approval of Agenda
   Mayor Howard requested additions to the agenda; discussion regarding
underground placement of electricity and funding concept, consideration of a
proposal from Brunswick County for sewer capacity and a Closed Session pursuant
to N.C.G.S. 143-318.11(a)(3) to consult with the City Attorney.
   City Manager McDuffie requested consideration of a No Parking designation
for a portion of 10th Street.
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to approve the agenda as
amended.  Unanimous vote; motion carried.
F)   Announcements
   Code Enforcement Officer Charles Drew announced that the annual Spring
Clean-Up would be held Friday, April 10th through Tuesday, April 14th, 7:00
a.m. – 7:00 p.m., at Taylor Field.
   Chief Dove announced that the National Day of Prayer will be observed on
Thursday, May 7, 12:00 noon on the lawn of the Police Department, 201 E. Moore
Street, with a remembrance of citizens and employees who have passed.
   On behalf of the Board, Mayor Howard thanked the community for the efforts
made in the Coastal Living contest for the Happiest Seaside Town. Results of
the contest will be made public in a summer issue of the magazine.
G)   ETHICS STATEMENT:
Mayor Howard stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any conflict of
interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect to matters on
the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Poole to approve the consent
agenda. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   1.   Minutes for March 12, 2015 regular meeting minutes, including closed
session minutes – approved
   Minutes for March 20, 2015 recessed meeting – approved
   Minutes for March 23, 2015 recessed meeting - approved
   2.   Adopt Resolution Recognizing the National Day of Prayer – approved
   3.   Adopt Earth Day Proclamation – approved
A RESOLUTION RECOGNIZING THE NATIONAL DAY OF PRAYER
WHEREAS, civic prayers and national days of prayer have a long and venerable
history in our constitutional republic, dating back to the First Continental
Congress in 1775; and
WHEREAS, the Declaration of Independence, our first statement as Americans of
national purpose and identity, made “the Laws of Nature and Nature’s God” the
foundation of our United States of America and asserted that people have
inalienable rights that are God-given; and
WHEREAS, the Supreme Court has affirmed the right of state legislatures to open
their sessions with prayer and the Supreme Court and the U.S. Congress
themselves begin each day with prayer; and
WHEREAS, in 1988 legislation setting aside the first Thursday of May in each
year as a National Day of Prayer was passed unanimously by both Houses of
Congress and signed by President Ronald Reagan; and
WHEREAS, the National Day of Prayer is an opportunity for Americans of all
faiths to join in united prayer to acknowledge our dependence on God, to give
thanks for blessings received, to request healing for wounds endured, and to
ask God to guide our leaders and bring wholeness to the United States and her
citizens; and
WHEREAS, it is fitting and proper to give thanks to God by observing a day of
prayer in the City of Southport when all may acknowledge our blessings and
express gratitude for them, while recognizing the needs for strengthening
religious and moral values in our State and Nation; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that I, Robert D. Howard, Mayor of the City of
Southport, and Board of Aldermen do hereby proclaim May 7, 2015 as “A DAY OF
PRAYER IN SOUTHPORT” and urge all citizens of Southport to observe the day in
ways appropriate to its importance and significance.
This 9th day of April 2015.
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
City of Southport
2015 Earth Day Proclamation
WHEREAS, our home, this planet Earth, is adversely affected by population
growth and rapid depletion of resources; and
WHEREAS, since the first Earth Day in 1970, the Clean Air Act has made the
nation’s air cleaner, the Clean Water Act has improved water quality, and the
Endangered Species Act has attempted to preserve ecosystems to maintain the
variety of species; and
WHEREAS, following the principles of reduce, repair, reuse and recycle,
residents can improve their environment; and
WHEREAS, preservation is easier and less expensive than restoration; and
WHEREAS, Earth Day provides an opportunity for members of the community to
study, learn and teach local activities which will contribute to protecting our
planet’s ecosystem; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that I, Robert D. Howard, Mayor of the City of
Southport, do hereby proclaim Wednesday, April 22, 2015, as
EARTH DAY
to be observed by all citizens in ways to better understand, appreciate, and
preserve the resources of our earth, and especially the resources of this area.
This 9th day of April 2015.
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
AGENDA
4.   Adopt Proclamation in Support of National Safe Boating Week
Alderman Barnes read the Proclamation into the record.
Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Coring to approve the Resolution
in Support of National Safe Boating Week. Unanimous vote; motioned carried.
Proclamation
Recreational boating is fun and enjoyable, and we are fortunate that we have
sufficient resources to accommodate the wide variety of pleasure boating
demands. However, our waterways can become crowded at times and be a place of
chaos and confusion. While being a marvelous source of recreation, boating, to
the unprepared, can be a risky sport. Not knowing or obeying the Navigation
Rules or the nautical “Rules of the Road,” drinking alcohol or taking drugs
while operating a boat, or choosing not to wear your life jacket when doing so
is clearly NOT the smart thing to do, are all examples of human error or a lack
of proper judgment. One particular behavior that can reduce the number of
boaters who lose their lives by drowning each year by is the wearing of a life
jacket. It is a simple task that has the potential to reduce terrible loss in
lives.
Knowledge and skills are important in reducing human error and improving
judgment. If people are aware of the risk, they are likely to take the
precautionary measures to protect themselves and their friends and family. That
is why we must continue to spread the messages of boating safety not only
during National Safe Boating Week but also throughout the entire year.
Whereas, on average, 700 people die each year in boating-related accidents in
the U.S.; approximately 71% of these are fatalities caused by drowning; and
Whereas, the vast majority of these accidents are caused by human error or poor
judgment and not by the boat, equipment, or environmental factors; and
Whereas, a significant number of boaters who lose their lives by drowning each
year would be alive today had they worn their life jackets; and
Whereas, today’s life jackets are more comfortable, more attractive, and more
wearable than styles of years past and deserve a fresh look by today’s boating
public.
Therefore, I, Robert D. Howard, do hereby support the goals of the North
American Safe Boating Campaign, the United States Coast Guard and the Coast
Guard Auxiliary and proclaim May 16 – 22, 2015, as National Safe Boating Week
and the start of the year-round effort to promote safe boating.
In Witness Thereof, I urge all those who boat to Wear It! and practice safe
boating habits.
Given under my signature and the seal of
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1662_1171x1171.jpg]
/s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor, Southport, North Carolina
/s/ BMCS A. Mark Kannan, Officer-in-Charge USCG Station Oak Island
/s/ Jack Gordon, Flotilla Commander, USCG Auxiliary Flotilla 10-05
at the City of Southport, North Carolina
this 9th
day of April, 2015.
5.   Presentation by Gordon Walker & Judy Gordon Regarding John Smith Cemetery
Ms. Judy Gordon, Chairperson of The John N. Smith Restoration and Preservation
Committee and Mr. Gordon Walker spoke to the Board about the efforts of the
Committee and the establishment of the Friends of the John N. Smith Cemetery,
to make improvements and ensure regular maintenance of the cemetery. Ms. Gordon
discussed the history of the 1880 cemetery that is the site of more than 800
interments of many local black citizens who contributed to the growth and
development of Southport; slaves, farmers, teachers, businessmen, laborers,
domestic servants, homemakers and veterans from the Civil War and subsequent
military campaigns.
Ms. Gordon pointed out that contributions are needed to fund publication of
narrative and pictorial history, ground radar penetration to locate unmarked
graves, upgrading and installing markers, design and implement a landscaping
plan and install an attractive perimeter fence. She stated the Committee is
reaching out to the community to recruit volunteers and raise the funds needed
to ensure the cemetery’s future as a unique and respected site for celebrating
an honorable past.
Ms. Gordon and Mr. Walker thanked the City for its’ continued assistance
keeping the cemetery in a respectful condition.
6.   Consideration of Preliminary Plat Approval; The Hammocks Subdivision
Mr. Allen explained that the preliminary plat for a new 50 lot, single family
subdivision, The Hammocks, located at Moore Street and Stuart Avenue had been
reviewed by the Planning Board. He pointed out that the subdivision will have
two street connections and a stub out to the tract to the west. He stated the
Planning Board found that the preliminary plat meets the requirements of the
Southport CAMA Core Land Use Plan Unified Development Ordinance (UDO) and
recommends approval.
Alderman Powell discussed construction specifications for the streets with
Justin Bishop, Malpass Engineering.
Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Coring to approve the Preliminary
Plat for The Hammocks subdivision. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
7.   Final Plat Approval; Snyder’s Landing, Lots 48-51
Mr. Allen presented the following:
In 2007 the Planning Board and the Board of Aldermen approved a preliminary and
final plat for what was then called Phase III of the Cottage Point Subdivision,
located on W. Owens Street with the following exceptions:
1.   The Board accepted a fee in lieu of the required recreation area in the
amount of $15,700 due to the lack of useable space on lots 48 – 51.
2.   An exception to the required lot depth of Lot 48.
The developer did not record the final plat, and therefore needs approval for
what is now called Snyder’s Landing, Lots 48 – 51.
At its meeting on March 19, the Planning Board found that the final plat for
Snyder’s Landing, Lots 48 – 51 meets the requirements of the Southport CAMA
Core Land Use Plan and UDO, and recommends that the Board of Aldermen approve
it .
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Powell to approve the Final Plat
for Snyder’s Landing, Lots 48 – 51. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
8.   Preliminary Plat Approval; Highland Park, Phase 1
Mr. Allen advised the Board that in 2012 the Planning Board and the Board of
Aldermen approved a preliminary plat for Phase 1 of the Highland Park
Subdivision, located on Stuart Avenue at Atlantic Avenue. The developer did not
realize that the approval expired after two (2) years, and failed to request an
extension. The developer is now ready to begin construction of the subdivision,
and has again requested preliminary plat approval for Phase 1. There have been
no changes made to the site plan since it was previously approved. Mr. Allen
indicated that the Planning Board found that the preliminary plat meets the
requirements of the Southport CAMA Core Land Use Plan and UDO and recommends
that the Board of Aldermen approve it.
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to approve the Phase I
Preliminary Plat for Highland Park. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
9.   Budget Amendments
Ms. Trexler presented Budget Amendment #10, incorporating multiple line item
transfers, to the Board for consideration and she briefly discussed the
expenditures associated with the transfers.
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to approve Budget Amendment
#10 as presented. Unanimous vote; motion carried.  
Budget Amendment #10               
Fiscal Year 2014-2015               
   WHEREAS the City of Southport has received additional revenues from tourism
event ticket sales;
   to appropriate those funds to purchase the tickets from Southport Historical
Society.
   -WHEREAS the City of Southport desires to transfer between line items in the
water and sewer funds;
   to appropriate those funds for the water main replacement on Lord St. from
Owens to West $58,092,
   to rehabilitate the Lift station at Indigo $16,041 and to remodel Public
Works restroom $7,097 and the
   purchase of office furniture $10,172.
   WHERAS the City of Southport conducted a salary study and desires to adjust
wages and associated benefits.
   WHEREAS the City of Southport desires to appropriate funds for the purchase
of City Christmas Decorations,
   trim trees in the City's Cemetery $7,850, and allocate funds for the
beautification
   committee $30,000 and Tourism marketing for the Happiest Seacoast City
$1,000.
   AS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2014-2015 needs to be amended to
reflect the revenues and transfers
   from board and public works and electric discretionary funds to fund those
expenditures.
   BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina,
   that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2014-2015 shall be amended
as follows:
          Previous Amount� Increase / (decrease)  Amended Amount
GENERAL FUND
                �Previous Amount   Increase /    Amended Amount
                                                   (decrease)
GENERAL FUND
(Decrease)
Revenues            10-3617-0000 $5,000            $9,795        $14,795
Tourism Special
Events
Appropriations      10-6170-2710 0                $9,795       $9,795
Tourism Community
Events
Totals                           $5,000            $0            $5,000
Water & Sewer Fund
Line Items
Contract Services   31-7130-4400 $436,000          ($62,700)     $373,300
Capital Outlay      31-7130-5100 $162,500          ($11,400)     $151,100
Equipment
Discretionary       31-7130-9700 $64,700           ($23,802)     $40,898
Capital Outlay      31-7130-5800 $83,200           $81,230       $164,430
Facilities
Departmental        31-7130-2600 $8,300           $16,672      $24,972
Supplies
Totals                           $754,700          $0            $754,700
General Fund
Beautification      10-3833-0005 $0                $30,000       $30,000
Donations
Salaries Parks &    10-6120-0000 $81,800           $4,574        $86,374
Rec
Fica                -900         $10,800           $350          $11,150
Retirement          -700         $4,100            $229          $4,329
LGERS               -1000        $5,800            $320          $6,120
Salaries Bldgs &    10-4190-0000 $181,200          $2,500        $183,700
Grounds
Fica                -900         $13,900           $191          $14,091
Retirement          -700         $9,100            $125          $9,225
LGERS               -1000        $12,800           $175          $12,975
Salaries Streets    10-4511-0000 $76,400           $3,760        $80,160
Fica                -900         $5,800            $288          $6,088
Retirement          -700         $3,800            $188          $3,988
LGERS               -1000        $5,400            $263          $5,663
Capital outlay      10-4190-3502 26,700            30,000        56,700
Equipment
Capital Outlay      10-4190-5800 5,500             7,850         13,350
Facitlites
R/M Facilities      10-4190-3502 26,700            2,000         28,700
Communications      10-6170-3200 2,400             1,000         3,400
Tourism
Board Discretionary 10-4110-9700 63,377           (23,813)     39,564
Totals                           535,577           0             535,577
Electric            30-7210-9700 41,500            (1,995)       39,505
discretionary
Wages Electric      30-7210-0000 216,400           1,667         218,067
Fica                -900         16,600            128           16,728
Retirement 401K     -700         10,800            83            10,883
LGERS               -1000        15,300           117          15,417
Totals                           300,600           0             300,600
Water/Sewer         31-7130-9700 40,898            (5,496)       35,402
discretionary
Salaries Water/     31-7130-0000 346,800           4,593         351,393
Sewer Works
Fica                -900         26,500            351           26,851
Retirement 401K     -700         17,300            230           17,530
LGERS               -1000        24,600           322          24,922
Totals                           $456,098          $0            $456,098
Totals                           $3,222,652        $0            $3,277,157
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, April 9, 2015.
/s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
/s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
10.   Street Lights
City Manager McDuffie reported that Brunswick Electric Membership Corporation
(BEMC) had reduced the price of concrete street light poles to be comparable to
the price for aluminum poles and had provided five (5) options of arms and
light fixtures for the Board’s consideration.
Alderman Barnes stated his opinion that decorative poles and light fixtures
should be used in the downtown area and on the waterfront. He stated his
support for a concrete pole with Option 2; decorative 8’ arm with bell shaped
LED fixture.
Responding to a query by Alderman Coring, City Manager McDuffie explained that
the candlepower of Option 2 was 1.5 per sq. ft. and meets State requirements
and North Carolina Department of Transportation (NDCOT) recommendation.
Mayor Howard read the request submitted by the Waterfront Steering Committee:
“We ask the Board of Aldermen only consider attractive lighting that is in
keeping with the beauty of Southport.”
Waterfront Steering Committee member, Harley Lemons, stated the Committee voted
on the options via e-mail and 5 of the 9 members preferred Option 2.
Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to accept Option 2 with a
concrete pole.
Discussion
Alderman Poole stated her opinion that the Board had always thought the lights
should be decorative.
Confusion ensued about the shape, color, cost and order quantity of the poles.
Staff directed to confer with BEMC representatives present and return with a
firm recommendation by the end of the meeting. Motion withdrawn; no action
taken.
11.   Approval of Sign Design for City Hall
After a brief discussion about the type of construction material for the sign,
the City Manager was directed by Board consensus to obtain pricing for a
sandblasted sign and have the lettering displayed in the City of Southport
print font.
12.   Use of City Vehicles by City Hall Employees
Alderman Coring pointed out that there had been discussion previously about
parking overcrowding at City Hall and vehicles subsequently being parked on the
grass. He indicated that he had asked the City Manager to provide the formula
used by the Police Department allowing Police Department personnel to drive
city vehicles home. Alderman Coring requested the Board consider allowing two
(2) City Hall employees to drive their city vehicles to and from work to help
reduce the number of vehicles in the City Hall parking lot.
City Manager McDuffie explained that police officers living further than 12
miles from the Police Department pay, $144 per mile per year, for the privilege
of driving a city vehicle to their home.
Mayor Howard raised concerns about preferential treatment unless the option was
provided to all city employees.
Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to permit the Animal
Control Officer and Building Inspector to drive their city vehicles home.
Discussion
City Attorney Isenberg indicated that permitting city employees other than
police officers to drive city vehicles home could result in tax consequences
for the employees.
Alderman Barnes withdrew his second. No action was taken.
Aldermen Barnes and Adams requested the city manager to provide the Board with
a listing of city employees on call and to prepare a policy for consideration.
13.   Board of Aldermen Vacancy
   Mayor Howard pointed out that the Board has the authority to fill the vacant
seat on the Board until the November election at which time the position will
be filled for the remaining portion of the term.
   Alderman Barnes nominated Ms. Emily Humphreys.
   Alderman Coring nominated Ms. Regina Alexander.
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Powell to close the nominations.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Mayor Howard called for a vote.
   Ms. Humphreys:   Aldermen Barnes, Poole, Adams
   Ms. Alexander:   Alderman Coring
   Alderman Powell did not cast a vote. By a 3-1 vote, Ms. Humphreys was
appointed to fill the Alderman seat for Ward 1 through the election.
14.   Update; 2015 Regional Risk Management Services Meeting
Ms. Mosley gave an overview of the 2015 Regional Risk Management Services
Meeting attended by herself and the city manager. She stated the meeting,
presented by the North Carolina League of Municipalities, entitled “More Than
Insurance,” encompassed employment practices, health insurance renewal
percentages, and risk management initiatives. She noted it was emphasized that
municipalities should have job descriptions for every employee. She pointed out
that the League offers a classification study for providing job descriptions
which for Southport would be approximately $8,700. She stated the funding for a
study will be submitted in the FY 2015-2016 budget. Ms. Mosley explained the
benefits of “Tel-A-Doc,” a new service provided by the League.
Recess - 3:20 – 3:24 p.m.
15.   Consideration of No Parking Area Designation on 10 th Street
City Manager McDuffie explained that he had received a request from the Fire
Department to designate a portion of 10 th Street as a No Parking Area.
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to designate the north side
of the 100 block of 10 th Street as a No Parking Area. Unanimous vote; motion
carried.
16.   Street Lights
The Board resumed discussion about street lights. Mr. Rivenbark, BEMC,
presented pricing for round ($1,143) and hexagon ($1,352.96) light poles.
Mayor Howard noted that the Waterfront Steering Committee recommended hexagon
poles.
Alderman Adams motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to adopt Option 2 with a
round concrete pole. Unanimous vote by an uplift of hands; motion passed.
Closed Session – 3:30 p.m.
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Powell to go into Closed Session
pursuant to N.C.G.S. 143-318.11(a)(3) to consult with the city attorney.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Resume Open Session – 4:13 p.m.
Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Powell to come out of Closed
Session. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Mayor Howard reported that the Board consulted with the city attorney regarding
possible legal issues for putting electric service underground and about a
potential sewer contract with Brunswick County for sewer capacity.
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Poole to authorize the city
attorney to work with the County attorney to develop a contract for leasing up
to 750,000 gallons of sewer capacity. Unanimous vote by an uplift of hands;
motion passed.
17.   Underground Electricity
Mayor Howard talked about the feasibility and possibility of putting Southport
utilities underground at an estimated expenditure of $18M. He spoke about the
upcoming sale of the North Carolina Eastern Municipal Power Agency (NCEMPA)
generating assets to Duke Energy Progress and the opportunity to consider
issuing bonds up to an amount that would be funded through the cost savings. He
indicated that the Board would be conducting Town Hall meetings to make a
comprehensive presentation to the citizens when specifics of the savings are
known.
Staff Comments
City Manager McDuffie reported that the Finance Department has the ability to,
and will start, prorating utility bills. There was no objection from the Board
to prorating the utility bills.
City Manager McDuffie provided dates that the city’s health insurance carrier,
North Carolina League of Municipalities, would be available to meet with the
Board and city employees to review health insurance options; April 20, 29, May
4, 5, 6. Board members to advise the Clerk of their availability.
Board Comments
Mayor Howard made the following statement:
Democracy demands at least two things of power … that power not be held in too
few hands and that it never be held in the same hands for too long ….
I have been Southport Mayor since December 2009, when the current term ends
during December of this year I will have enjoyed serving the Citizens of this
community as Mayor for six years; the time is right to step aside from this
phase of my inspiration; serving our community. During the upcoming filing
period, I will not file for reelection. I have been honored by the opportunity
to serve my fellow citizens and to help shape the future our city for three
full terms.
As a courtesy to any others who may wish to seek the position, it is important
that I make my intentions known at this time. However, we still have a lot of
work to do in the next seven months and I am confident that our Board of
Aldermen team will remain focused on following through on our plans and the
many projects that are underway.
I arrived at this decision some weeks ago and reconsidered it over this past
weekend and the days leading up to this meeting to be sure I felt comfortable
following through with this decision and making this announcement today.
All I’m really interested in; is doing things that help people. I really care
about the lives of people in Southport. The greatest professional job I could
have is to serve my hometown. Southport and its people have been very kind to
me and my family during my entire life.
For the past four of my six years as Mayor, we have enjoyed Boards that have
been the perfect formula for Southport – such a motivated, disciplined and
decisive group focused on progress, efficiency and streamlining city processes.
In addition to the members service now, I acknowledge and thank Juanita Frink,
Donnie and Vickie Potter, Ken Karn who all worked hard for the harmony of this
Board and its accomplishments for our citizens. Of course my love and respect
for Meezie Herring Childs and her life is well known.
We really have a collective vision that we’re going to move opportunities
forward and to make sure our citizens are engaged early in the decision making
process. I am most proud of the team effort to move the city forward and I am
especially proud of the state the city is in.
Southport has had success because this Board seeks to listen to all
stakeholders before reacting or making decisions that will affect our
Community. The magic is including people in meaningful times and places. Get
people involved in a decision before you make it.
I entered this office knowing that electrical rates is the single largest
concern to our citizens and businesses; now through the efforts of this Board
and the other 31 Cities in our coalition which make up the Eastern Power
Agency, we are on the threshold of making major announcements that will provide
for opportunities in this regard for our citizens.
We understand that healthy citizens need a healthy downtown; this Board has
moved from those days (during the first two years of my tenure) where signs and
benches in addition to confusion, disagreement and division was reality to
creating and supporting efforts to enhance our town for tourist, commercial and
residential appeal.
In recent years I’ve found gratification in our progress in building stronger,
respectful relationships with Brunswick County, Brunswick Community College and
the surrounding Communities. And, more generally, embracing the importance of
diversity for our community.
We have been advocating for the widening of the Dutchman Creek Bridge, of
course our River Front restoration, placing our utilities underground and
completing the renovation and retrofit project to City facilities. We have
completed a portion of the fix needed to relieve traffic congestion by working
towards a private public partnership with the completion of Rob Gandy
extension.
Additionally and most importantly we have been advocating for the paving of
Howe and Moore Streets through our City, and I think we now have the ear of our
legislative delegation and the DOT – because this work has begun and will be
completed during the fall of this year.
Of course we have our Sewer capacity situation which is well underway to being
resolved through the acquisition of capacity rather than short term lease we
inherited. Through our Sewer District and with the flexibility of this Board we
are expanding our corporate limits and increasing service more efficiently and
effectively; all of which are initiatives that are ongoing.
As I leave office we have the comfort of knowing the dye is cast on a number of
important projects that will be completed during the next term of this Board of
Aldermen. Some of those project include protecting and retrofitting our
Riverfront, continuing to make changes to developing our downtown for easier
use and accessibility for our tourists.
We have a wonderful and effective staff; sometimes we are a Board create
concerns in that we involve ourselves in the responsibilities of the City
Manager as he manages his staff. We have a capable and effective City Manager.
Our goal of management should be to put the right people in the right spots
then let them do their jobs. Again, our City Manager is doing an above average
job; he knows and understands his duties and responsibilities. I am very proud
that I was a part of the team effort to bring him to our community.
I hope the next mayor and Board of Aldermen doesn’t try to micro-manage our
City Manager. Just allow he and his staff to run their departments, they really
are good at what they do.
Southport people are truly extraordinary. From the bottom of my heart to the
very fiber of my soul, I want you to know what an honor it has been to be a
part of the team that is Southport!
I look forward to the next seven months as we continue the initiatives we as a
Board have undertaken.
Adjournment- 4:35 p.m.
Alderman Powell moved to adjourn the meeting, second by Alderman Coring.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
                        /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:   /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
APRIL 29, 2015
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING APRIL 29, 2015
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor Robert D. Howard
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Nelson Adams, Todd Coring,
            Jim Powell, Buddy Barnes
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   38 Active and Retired Employees
A)   Call to Order – 12:00 p.m.
Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 12:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Coring welcomed everyone and gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
Alderman Coring led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Swearing In
Mrs. Emily Humphreys was sworn in as Alderman by the Clerk.
Closed Session – 12:10 p.m.
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to go into Closed Session.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Resume Open Session – 12:35 p.m.
Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Powell to come out of Closed
Session. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Mayor Howard reported the Board discussed terms of a contract with Brunswick
County. No action was taken.
Health Insurance Workshop
   Ms. Lisa Kinsey and Ms. Julie Hall of the North Carolina League of
Municipalities provided the Board and city employees with a handout of multiple
health insurance options detailing plans with various deductibles, out-of-
pocket limits, and optional health savings accounts (HSA).
   Responding to inquiries from several employees, Mayor Howard indicated it
was the Board’s intention to maintain health insurance for active and retired
employees with no intention of reducing the general fund contribution,
currently $833 per active employee. He stated the purpose of the workshop was
to review options and hear from the employees before the Board makes a
decision.
   Mr. Charles Drew suggested narrowing the options down to a smaller number
for consideration and he shared his assessment of, and opposition to a HSA.
Several employees agreed and shared their recent experiences with out-of-pocket
expenses for surgeries, medications, etc.
   20 year employee and current retiree, Mr. Johnny Faulk, expressed
appreciation for the health care coverage provided over the years and for the
opportunity to provide input to the Board for their decision process. Ms.
Kinsey pointed out it was very rare for employees to be involved.
   Responding to an inquiry from Mr. Drew regarding how to reduce claims, Ms.
Hall talked about League initiatives that are helping to reduce claims, such as
the wellness requirements and a new grant program. She discussed “Tel-A-Doc”
which is available 24-hours a day via phone for diagnostic and prescription
services by North Carolina Board certified doctors. Additionally, Ms. Hall
stated that per the Affordable Care Act, in 2018, an excise tax will be added
to each plan over $850 per person per month. The responsibility for payment of
the tax may be that of the employer.
   Ms. Hall explained how the annual rate adjustment is determined based on the
amount of claims, noting that 10% of the city’s employees are driving 90% of
the claims. She also explained why the premiums are higher for retirees.
   Ms. Trexler asked the Board to consider offering a high deductible plan
(HDHP) with an HSA, allowing for the difference in the current premium to go
into the HSA. She offered assistance to any employee who would like to
determine what their yearly costs are. Ms. Hall emphasized that a HDHP with an
HSA is an individual decision and not appropriate for everyone.
   Mr. Elle Pittinger requested the Board consider a plan with an option for
employees to pay additional for an upgraded plan.
   Retiree, Mr. Bob Grant, pointed out that employees had forfeited a cost of
living increase last year in order to keep their current health care coverage.
   Mayor Howard thanked employees for attending. He emphasized that employees
are an important and vital part of the City and he stated the Board is
sensitive to their needs
Recess: 1:45 – 1:51p.m.
   Rob Gandy Boulevard
   Mayor Howard spoke about the 2 year public/private partnership to construct
Rob Gandy Boulevard. He expressed frustration that acceptance in the State road
system and opening of the road has been delayed for nearly eight weeks and
through a Duke Energy Progress Outage which adds 4,500 extra employees and
overstresses the area roads. He noted the gridlock situation experienced daily
on Southport’s roads and he emphasized the necessity of opening the road to
assure the safety of Southport citizens and visitors. Mayor Howard suggested
submitting a resolution to NCDOT regarding the situation.
   Alderman Powell pointed out that Memorial Day is within four (4) weeks and
traffic will increase. He supported sending a resolution to NCDOT.
   Alderman Poole supported sending a resolution to NCDOT.
   Alderman Coring supported sending a resolution to NCDOT and he stated that
traffic congestion during a recent accident at Jabbertown and River Roads could
have been avoided had Rob Gandy Boulevard been open.
   Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Powell to send a Resolution to
North Carolina Department of Transportation (NCDOT) Secretary of Transportation
Anthony Tata, Ms. Karen Fussell Division 3 Engineer, NCDOT and Southport
legislative delegates Bill Rabon and Frank Iler requesting the expedited
opening of Rob Gandy Boulevard. Unanimous vote; motion carried. (Resolution on
file in the Clerk’s office)
   Sewer Rates
Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Powell to amend Appendix A
Wastewater Allocation Impact Fee Schedule to change the non-residential
wastewater impact fee to $16.50/gallon. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Consideration of Contract with Brunswick County for Sewer Allocation
Mayor Howard reported that the Brunswick County Commissioners had approved an
agreement to lease up to 750,000 gallons per day of sewer capacity to the City
with the understanding that the County will undertake a study of the West
Brunswick Regional Wastewater Treatment plant to evaluate capacity levels and
come back to the City in late September or October with a plan for Southport to
purchase allocation. He added that as part of the agreement the Southport sewer
district and several operating agreements are reaffirmed.
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Poole to authorize the Mayor to
execute a contract between Brunswick County and The City of Southport for sewer
capacity up to 750,000 gallons per day. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
(Contract on file in the Clerk’s office.)
Adjournment- 2:10 p.m.
Alderman Powell moved to adjourn the meeting, second by Alderman Poole.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
                        /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:   /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
MAY 6, 2015
SPECIAL SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN   SPECIAL SESSION MINUTES
FIRE HEADQUARTERS   MAY 6, 2015
1011 N. HOWE STREET SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor Robert D. Howard
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Nelson Adams, Todd Coring,
            Jim Powell, Buddy Barnes, Emily Humphreys
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
A)   Call to Order – 3:00 p.m.
Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 3:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Powell welcomed everyone and gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Powell led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Announcements
   Alderman Poole read into the record;
Resolution for Municipal Clerks Week May 3 – 9, 2015
Whereas, May 3 – 9, 2015 is the 46th Annual Municipal Clerks Week, and
Whereas, The Office of the Municipal Clerk, a time honored and vital part of
local government exists throughout the world, and
Whereas, The Office of the Municipal Clerk is the oldest among public servants,
and
Whereas, The Office of the Municipal Clerk provides the professional link
between the citizens, the local governing bodies and agencies of government at
other levels, and
Whereas, Municipal Clerks have pledged to be ever mindful of their neutrality
and impartiality, rendering equal service to all, and
Whereas, The Municipal Clerk serves as the information center on functions of
local government and community, and
Whereas, Michele Windham serves as City of Southport Clerk and has been
employed by the City of Southport since December 12, 2003, and
Whereas, Gayle Jones services as City of Southport Deputy City Clerk and has
been employed by the City of Southport since May 3, 2010, and
Whereas, it is most appropriate that we recognize the accomplishments of the
Office of the Municipal Clerk.
Now, Therefore, be it resolved that the Southport Board of Aldermen, recognize
the week of May 3 – 9, 2015, as Municipal Clerks Week, and further extend
appreciation to our Municipal Clerk, Michele Windham and Deputy Clerk Gayle
Jones for their vital services performed and exemplary dedication to the City
of Southport.
Dated this 6th day of May, 2015
                        /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to adopt the Resolution for
Municipal Clerks Week May 3 – 9, 2015. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
E)   ETHICS STATEMENT: 
Mayor Howard stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any conflict of
interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect to matters on
the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
AGENDA
Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Powell to go into Closed Session
pursuant to N.C.G.S. 143-318.11(a) (1) to discuss confidential information
under N.C.G.S. 159B-38. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Resume Open Session – 4:57 p.m.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Adams to come out of Closed
Session. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Mayor Howard reported that the Board heard from Mr. Roy Jones and Mr. Cecil
Rhodes, representatives of the North Carolina Eastern Municipal Power Agency
(NCEMPA), regarding contractual terms and conditions for the purchase of
generating assets by Duke Progress Energy.
W.K. Dickson
   City Manager McDuffie advised that the contract for services with W.K.
Dickson to assist the City in pursuing PARTF and USDA grant funding for the
renovation of the existing Lord Street Gym had been received. He indicated that
staff would execute the contract to begin the process. There were no objections
from the Board.
Health Insurance
   City Manager McDuffie pointed out that a decision had to be made within 23
days on the 2015-2016 Health Insurance Plan. He stated that the NC Senate had
passed a bill to allow 10,000 municipal employees to join the State health
insurance plan, the bill is currently in the NC House of Representatives and is
expected to pass. He noted that the city’s current plan is based on a fiscal
year of July 1 through June 30th while the deductible is a calendar year. He
stated that the State plan is calendar year and if a six (6) month plan, July 1
through December 31, 2015, could be purchased from the city’s current health
insurance carrier, a 90 day notice would be submitted to the State requesting
Southport be added to the State’s plan January, 2016. City Manager McDuffie
noted that the State has three (3) plans to choice from and the best State plan
is very comparable to what the City currently provides.
    Aldermen Coring and Powell pointed out that employees had shared their
thoughts at a previous meeting and had sacrificed a cost of living allowance in
the 2014 - 2015 budget in order to retain their current health care coverage.
   City Manager McDuffie stated the State does not provide a plan for retirees
so the City would have to purchase a separate plan for the eight (8) pre-65 and
ten (10) post 65 retirees.
   The Board discussed spousal coverage, options for retirees and directed the
City Manager to follow up on joining the State’s plan and to submit a
recommendation to the Board at a future budget workshop.
Adjournment- 6:00 p.m.
Alderman Powell moved to adjourn the meeting, second by Alderman Barnes.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
                     /s/  Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:   /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
MAY 14, 2015
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING MAY 14, 2015
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor Robert D. Howard
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Nelson Adams, Todd Coring,
            Jim Powell, Buddy Barnes, Emily Humphreys
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
   Jerry Dove, Police Chief
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   David Fox, Public Works Director
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   John Allen, Community Development Specialist
A)   Call to Order – 1:00 p.m.
Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 1:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Powell welcomed everyone and asked the public to submit comments
regarding the afternoon meetings vs. the evening meetings. Chief Dove gave the
invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Powell led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Public Comment
   No one from the public spoke.
E)   Approval of Agenda
   Mayor Howard requested additions to the agenda; consideration of Budget
Amendment #11, update on the sale of surplus property, and set a date for a
public hearing regarding placing electric service underground.
   Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Poole to approve the agenda as
amended.  Unanimous vote; motion carried.
F)   Announcements
   City Manager McDuffie reported a scheduled city wide power outage would
occur Wednesday, May 27 at 11:30 p.m. to allow for an upgrade to the
substation. He stated the outage could last as long as two (2) hours. He noted
that a notice of the outage had been included on the utility bills and a
message board would be displayed.
   Ms. Shirley Snyder, representing the Beautification Committee, was
recognized by the Board. She presented a progress report on the fund raising
for the sailboat Christmas wreaths;
∙   $12,850 has been pledged
∙   $ 5,000 pledged from Downtown Southport Inc. (DSI)
∙   $ 2,500 pledged from the Historical Society
∙   $ 500 gift received from the Garden Club
∙   Several $500 gifts received from individuals
∙   A photo op has been done for publication in the State Port Pilot
∙   Marketing materials are prepared
∙   50 promotional packets with a letter from the Mayor have been sent out
∙   The fund raising kick off will be held Friday, June 5, 6:30 – 9:30 p.m. on
the Garrison Lawn
∙   Multiple musicians will be performing at the kick off
∙   A donor honor roll will be displayed; no donation amounts will be shown
Alderman Poole announced that the traffic light at NC 211 and J. Swain
Boulevard had been recalibrated making it easier to get in and out of the
Rivermist subdivision.
Alderman Poole announced that the Caswell Avenue Community Garden had worked
with an art class at South Brunswick High School to create a logo for the
garden. The student creating the logo will be recognized on Monday, May 18, 3:
30 p.m. at the garden.
G)   ETHICS STATEMENT: 
Mayor Howard stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any conflict of
interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect to matters on
the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to approve the consent
agenda. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
1.   Minutes for April 9, 2015 regular meeting minutes, including closed
session minutes – approved
   Minutes for April 29, 2015 special meeting – approved
2.   Adopt Resolution in Support of the City of Boiling Spring Lakes’ Planned
Spillway Project – approved
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1667_1389x1176.jpg]
 
RESOLUTION IN SUPPORT OF THE CITY OF BOILING SPRING LAKES’ PLANNED SPILLWAY
PROJECT
WHEREAS, the City of Boiling Spring Lakes is seeking grant funding to help fund
a new spillway project for N.C. 87; and
WHEREAS, heavy rains from thunderstorms and tropical storms often causes
flooding on N.C. 87; and
WHEREAS, the City of Boiling Spring Lakes has a plan to install a new spillway
aimed at correcting the flooding problem on this important thoroughfare; and
WHEREAS, travel on N.C. 87 is important to many in southeastern Brunswick
County, not just the residents of Boiling Spring Lakes; and
WHEREAS, N.C. 87 is one of the few evacuation routes available to Southport
residents and visitors in the event an evacuation is mandated ahead of a
hurricane; and
WHEREAS, the City of Southport appreciates the opportunity to lend its support
to this much-needed project which has the potential to help thousands of people
travel away from the coast and to safer areas before a hurricane makes
landfall; and
WHEREAS, the City of Southport joins the City of Boiling Spring Lakes in
requesting funding for this project.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the City of Southport hereby officially
supports the spillway project and requests that grant funding be allocated as
the City of Boiling Spring Lakes requests.
Adopted this the 14th day of May, 2015.
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor                              
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
AGENDA
3.   Adopt Resolution Recognizing National Police Week and Peace Officers
Memorial Day
The City Clerk read the Resolution into the record.
A RESOLUTION RECOGNIZING NATIONAL POLICE WEEK AND PEACE OFFICER’S MEMORIAL DAY
WHEREAS,  the Congress and the President of the United States has designated
that there be a National Peace Officers Memorial Day, and the week in which
Peace Officers Memorial Day falls as Police Week; and
WHEREAS, the members of the law enforcement agencies of North Carolina play an
essential role in safeguarding the rights and freedom of the citizens of the
State; and
WHEREAS, it is important that all citizens know and understand the problems,
duties and responsibilities of their law enforcement officers and agencies, and
that members of those agencies recognize their duty to serve the people by
safeguarding life and property, by protecting them against violence or
disorder, and by protecting the innocent against deception and the weak against
oppression or intimidation; and
WHEREAS, the citizens of Southport recognize and appreciate the contributions
made by law enforcement officers at all levels of government.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that I, Robert D. Howard, Mayor of the City of
Southport, and Board of Aldermen do hereby proclaim May 15, 2015 as “PEACE
OFFICER’S MEMORIAL DAY,” and May 10 – 16, 2015 as “NATIONAL POLICE WEEK” in
Southport, North Carolina, and that, all of our people join in commemorating
law enforcement officers, past and present, which by their faithful and loyal
devotion to their responsibilities have rendered a dedicated service to their
communities. In so doing, they have established for themselves an enviable and
enduring reputation for preserving the rights and security of all citizens.
This 14th day of May 2015.
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Poole to adopt the Resolution.
Unanimous vote; motioned carried.
4.   Public Hearing; Application for Taxicab Franchise
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to go into Public Hearing.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Chief Dove presented the findings of the Tourism Commission pertaining to the
Application for Permit to Operate Taxicab submitted by Ms. Helena Deering, 1812
Capps Street, Durham, NC. He pointed out the burden of proof per Code of
Ordinances Section 10-16 is upon the applicant to establish the convenience and
necessity. He stated he had not received any complaints about a lack of taxi
service, he raised concerns that the contact phone number is a Durham exchange
and that there is no indication a business would be established in Southport.
Noting there are two (2) taxi services operating in Southport, Chief Dove
stated the recommendation of the Tourism Commission is that there is no
convenience and necessity for an additional taxi service.
Ms. Deering spoke to the Board about her 30 years’ transportation experience in
Durham. She indicated that she holds a Commercial Driver’s License (CDL) and
provided taxi service in Durham for the past year. She stated she began her
taxi service with a focus on safety of women. She shared her goal to grow her
company, the difficulty doing so in Durham due to steep competition, and her
decision to operate a taxi service in Southport.
Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Powell to go out of Public
Hearing. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
5.   Consideration of Application for Taxicab Franchise
Alderman Adams pointed out that the Board had not seen the convenience and
necessity for a previously submitted taxicab application. He motioned, second
by Alderman Poole to accept the recommendation of the Tourism Commission to not
issue the permit for a taxicab company. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
6.   Consideration of Second Two-Year Renewal of the Concession Agreement
Between the City of Southport and Southport Historical Society
City Manager McDuffie stated that staff recommends continuation of the lease
with the Southport Historical Society for operation of the Susie Carson
Research Room in the Fort Johnston Garrison House. Attorney Isenberg pointed
out that the lease can be renewed for two (2) additional terms.
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Coring to renew the Concession
Agreement. Unanimous vote; motion carried.   
7.   Planning Board Appointments
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to appoint Karen Mosteller
and Laura Sharkey to 3-year term city positions and Matt Green to a 3-year term
city alternate position on the Planning Board.
Ayes:   Aldermen Poole, Barnes, Adams, Humphreys
Nays:   Aldermen Powell, Coring
Motion carried 4-2.
8.   Consideration of Amending Code of Ordinances Chapter 17, Traffic and Motor
Vehicles, Article III, Operation of Vehicles, Section 17-79 Prohibition of
Certain Vehicles on Light Traffic Roads
Mr. Allen explained that the request to add Turtlewood Drive, Grey Squirrel
Path and Canvasback Court to Chapter 17, Section 17-79 of the Southport Code of
Ordinances stemmed from the developer of the subdivision wanting to stop
through truck traffic. Mr. Allen added that staff has recommended including
Brunswick Street and Yacht Basin Drive between W. Moore Street and Brunswick
Street.
Alderman Barnes questioned if exceptions are made for vehicles making
deliveries or moving vans. Attorney Isenberg advised that the Ordinance
provides exceptions for public utility vehicles, firefighting vehicles, garbage
trucks, vehicles for delivery of heating fuel, vehicles transporting and
delivering materials for on-premises use at a destination located on the light-
traffic road and vehicles performing contractual work at a destination located
on the light-traffic road.
City Manager McDuffie noted that Brunswick Street is posted “No Thru Trucks”
but without its inclusion in the Ordinance, it is unable to be enforced. 
Questions were raised about tour bus traffic, weight limitations and
enforcement.
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Adams to table the request and
refer to the Traffic and Transportation Committee for clarification of the
13,000 pound gross weight limit. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
9.   Final Plat Approval; Highland Park, Phase 1
Mr. Allen explained that staff recommends approval of the Highland Park, Phase
1 Final Plat, noting that no changes have been made to the site plan since the
approval of the Preliminary Plat.
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to approve the Final Plat
for Highland Park, Phase 1. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
10.   Set Date for Budget Workshop
A budget workshop was scheduled for Wednesday, May 27, 6:30 p.m. at Fire
Headquarters, 1011 N. Howe Street.
RECESS – 1:47 p.m.
RECONVENE – 1:53 p.m.
11.   Consideration of Budget Amendment #11
City Manager McDuffie reviewed items on Budget Amendment #11 noting the need to
replace the current backhoe. He pointed out that money is available in the FY
2014-2015 budget and staff is recommending purchase of a new backhoe in the
amount of $84,500. Responding to a query from Alderman Adams, City Manager
McDuffie stated the city currently owns 22 and 23 year old backhoes that are in
questionable shape and a 9 year old backhoe in good shape.
Alderman Powell and Coring pointed out that a budget surplus could be applied
towards employee health insurance coverage.
Alderman Adams questioned the rush to put a backhoe out of service when it can
be refurbished.
Public Works Director, David Fox talked about safety concerns and the condition
of the older backhoes, pointing out that they are used daily and driven to
jobsites. He added that one of the backhoes is currently in the shop with four
(4) cylinders being rebuilt.
Alderman Barnes shared his experience with heavy equipment and the importance
of maintenance. He further stated that replacement of a backhoe was mentioned
during the 2014-2015 budget discussions and the City backhoes are used for
heavier work than normal equipment.
Aldermen Barnes, Powell and Adams requested further justification for the
purchase.
Alderman Adams recommended tabling consideration of the purchase. He requested
Aldermen Powell, the City Manager and the Public Works Director confer and
bring the request to the Board at a later date.
The Board reviewed the additional Budget Amendment #11 items agreeing to amend
the request; remove Capital Outlay Equipment $84,500 and defer $24,700 of Sewer
Supplies.
Alderman Coring emphasized receiving such requests in a manner and form
allowing for review before consideration of action.
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to approve Budget Amendment
#11 as amended to include Insurance, Vehicles, Sewer Supplies $7,000, R/
M Equipment, R/M Sewer Collection System, Insurance & Bonds and Debt Service.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1670_855x848.jpg]
 
Budget Amendment #11
Fiscal Year 2014-2015
WHEREAS the City of Southport desires to purchase a backhoe and supplies and
make additional repairs to facilities and equipment.
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2014-2015 needs to be amended to
reflect the transfers necessary to allow use of these funds; and
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2014-2015 shall be
amended as follows:
                                       Increase/
Water Sewer Fund           Previous Amount   (Decrease)   Amended Amount   
Appropriations
Insurance – Workers Comp-1400   $ 4,700       $ 1,094      $ 5,794
Vehicles – 2500         $ 8,500      $ 1,200      $ 9,700
Sewer Supplies – 2606         $ 53,100      $ 7,000      $ 60,100
R/M Equipment – 3500         $ 4,000      $ 2,900      $ 6,900
R/M Sewer Collection System-3506   $ 64,700      $ 15,800      $ 80,500
Insurance & Bonds – 4500      $ 6,600      $ 277      $ 6,870
Debt Service – 7100         $322,500      $ (28,271)      $ 294,229
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, May 14,
2015      
                        /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor      
/s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk   
12.   Surplus Property Update
Mr. Allen provided a report on the sale of eight (8) surplus vehicles netting
$6,770.09. He indicated additional surplus equipment, currently stored at the
former Wastewater Treatment Plant, would be sold.
13.   Set a Date for Underground Public Meeting
A meeting to provide information and receive public input regarding the
possibility of installing electric lines underground was scheduled for Tuesday,
May 26, 6:30 p.m. in the Community Building.
Staff Reports
City Manager McDuffie reported that 59 of the old candle style Christmas
decorations have been listed on GovDeals.com. He indicated the highest bidder
will have an option to purchase one or 59 of the decorations and that price
will set the sale price for any remaining decorations. He stated that the bid
as of May 13 was $25.
Board Comments
Alderman Barnes reported that the Rate Review Committee had met and discovered
from information provided by the City Manager and Brunswick Electric Management
Corp. (BEMC) that a Southport home using Load Management practices would have
an electric bill lower than a bill from BEMC or Duke Progress Energy. Alderman
Barnes encouraged everyone to consider using Load Management to save money.
Mayor Howard pointed out that there is a misconception that Southport’s
electric rates are higher because the electric charge is consolidated on one
bill with water, sewer, trash, recycling and yard waste charges.
Adjournment – 2:25 p.m.
Alderman Powell moved to adjourn the meeting, second by Alderman Poole.
 Unanimous vote; motion carried.
                        /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
MAY 26, 2015
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  PUBLIC HEARING MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING MAY 26, 2015
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor Robert D. Howard
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Nelson Adams, Todd Coring,
            Jim Powell, Buddy Barnes, Emily Humphreys
 
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   John Allen, Community Development Specialist
A)   Call to Order - 6:30 p.m.
Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Powell welcomed everyone and Alderman Coring gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Powell led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Announcements
Mayor Howard announced that the special meeting was scheduled to discuss the
possibility and feasibility of putting Southport's electric system underground.
He urged those attending to participate in the discussion.
Mayor Howard announced that the Board would be holding a 2015 - 2016 Budget
Workshop on Wednesday, May 27, 6:30 p.m. at Fire Headquarters, 1011 N. Howe
Street.
Mayor Howard directed staff and the Traffic & Transportation Committee to look
at limiting access to Moore and Howe Streets from Memorial Day to Labor Day for
the horse and buggy tour. He pointed out that traffic is backing up behind the
tour and could create an unsafe situation during the summer months. He
encouraged everyone to share their thoughts on the issue during the Board's
June 11 regular meeting.
Mayor Howard directed the City Manager and two members of the Board to review
the policy for allowing music to be played outdoors at the Community Building.
He shared his understanding that music via bands or DJ were restricted to
inside the building and he pointed out that he and several Aldermen had
received calls over the past weekend about the outdoor music. He asked staff to
report to the Board in June who is responsible for enforcing the policy and who
citizens should call with a complaint.
Electric Underground
Mayor Howard spoke about the proposed sale of the electric generating assets by
the North Carolina Eastern Municipal Power Agency (NCEMPA) to Duke Energy
Progress. He explained that Southport is one of 32 cities forming the NCEMPA
and the sale would reduce Southport's current portion of debt from $12.3M to
$3.5M. Additionally, he pointed out that there will be a decrease in the cost
to obtain electricity. He stated the Board is seeking input from the citizens
to determine their willingness to allow a major portion of the decrease in cost
to be used towards putting the city's electric system underground, currently
estimated at $18M. He indicated that, pending support from the citizens, the
city would expend approximately $20,000 for a feasibility study.
City Manager McDuffie presented a PowerPoint presentation depicting the assets
being sold, the projected cost of electric after the sale, an average Southport
electric customer's monthly bill, the anticipated monthly savings, and scenes
of Southport with and without overhead electric lines. He explained three
financing options and timelines for installing the electric system underground.
Mayor Howard announced that a representative of NCEMPA would be attending the
Board's June 11 regular meeting to present details of the proposed asset sale.
Mr. Al Willis, 6150 Riversound Circle, spoke about the current electric rates
and his belief that people do not move to Southport because the electric rates
are high. He doubted that proof exists that outages are reduced by putting
electric underground, and he questioned if the homeowner would have to pay for
any part of the project.
Resident, Ms. Jean Brit, shared her experiences being without power due to a
storm and she supported putting the electric service underground.
Ms. Jean Parker, 315 W. 8th Street, a resident for 75 years, urged the Board to
reduce the high rates customers have been paying for the last 25 - 30 years.
Mr. Hank Singley, 113 W. West Street, spoke in support of going underground. He
emphasized the protection from storm damage and the aesthetic quality.
Mr. Richard Sloan, 509 E. Moore Street, questioned what cost, if any, the
homeowner would incur to put their service underground.
Alderman Powell pointed out that there were still many questions that needed to
be addressed. He suggested getting a system survey and cost estimates of how
much it would cost residents to move the lines at their residence underground.
Alderman Adams stated his concerns about the proposal focusing on the
commercial area. He pointed out that his constituents live 8-10 blocks away and
they would suffer a financial burden to connect their homes to the service at
the right-of-way. He noted that his electric panel box is 200 feet from the
right-of-way. He stated his support for giving customers a break on their
electric bills.
Mayor Howard announced that another public hearing would be held for further
public input.
Adjournment - 7:25 p.m.
Mayor Howard declared the meeting adjourned.
                        /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:   /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
MAY 27, 2015
BUDGET WORKSHOP MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN   BUDGET WORKSHOP MINUTES
FIRE HEADQUARTERS   MAY 27, 2015
1011 N. HOWE STREET SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor Robert D. Howard
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Nelson Adams, Todd Coring,
            Jim Powell, Buddy Barnes, Emily Humphreys
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
   Jerry Dove, Police Chief
   David Fox, Public Works Director
   Tyler Johnston, Rescue Squad Chief
   Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
   Vickie Potter, Community Building Coordinator
A)   Call to Order – 6:30 p.m.
Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Powell welcomed everyone and Jerry Dove gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Powell led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Announcements
   Mayor Howard announced that a ground breaking was held this date at the
North Carolina Maritime Museum at Southport for Phase II of the museum’s
expansion project.
   Alderman Barnes reminded everyone that Southport would be experiencing a
scheduled power outage beginning at 11:30 p.m. and anticipated to last two (2)
hours for upgrades to be made to the electric substation.
E)   ETHICS STATEMENT: 
Mayor Howard stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any conflict of
interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect to matters on
the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
AGENDA
1.   Traffic & Transportation Committee Recommendation
City Manager McDuffie reported that the Traffic & Transportation Committee had
met and recommended the addition of Turtlewood Drive, Grey Squirrel Path,
Canvasback Court, Brunswick Street, Yacht Basin Drive between W. Moore and
Brunswick Streets, and I Am Street between E. Moore and Nash Streets to Chapter
17, Article III, Section 17-79 of the Code of Ordinances prohibiting certain
vehicles on light traffic roads.
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Poole to accept the Traffic &
Transportation Committee recommendation. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 17, TRAFFIC AND MOTOR VEHICLES,
ARTICLE III, OPERATION OF VEHICLES
BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport that Section
17-79 of the Code of Ordinances is hereby amended to read as follows:
Sec. 17-79, Prohibition of certain vehicles on light traffic roads.
(a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate a truck or other
motor vehicle having a gross weight in excess of thirteen thousand (13,000)
pounds upon the following light-traffic roads within the city which are hereby
designated as light-traffic roads:
(1)   Fodale Avenue from Howe Street to Moore Street
(2)   Stuart Avenue from Howe Street to Moore Street
(3)   Park Avenue from Leonard Street to Moore Street
(4)   Willis Avenue from Leonard Street to Moore Street
(5)   Turtlewood Drive between E. Moore Street and Leonard Street
(6)   Grey Squirrel Path between Turtlewood Drive and Canvasback Court
(7)   Canvasback Court between Grey Squirrel Path and E. Leonard Street
(8)   Brunswick Street
(9)   Yacht Basin Drive between W. Moore Street and Brunswick Street
(10)   I Am Street
(b)   The following trucks or motor vehicles are hereby exempted from the above
light-traffic road limitations:
(1)   A truck or other motor vehicle when owned, operated by or under contract
to a public utility, electric or telephone membership corporation or
municipality and such motor vehicle is used in connection with the
installation, restoration or emergency maintenance of utility services on said
light-traffic road.
(2)   A firefighting vehicle operated by any member of a municipal or volunteer
fire department in the performance of his duties and any vehicle of a voluntary
lifesaving organization when operated by a member of that organization while
answering an official call.
(3)   A fully enclosed motor vehicle designed specifically for collecting,
compacting or hauling garbage from residences or garbage dumpsters located on
said light-traffic roads.
(4)   A truck or motor vehicle when transporting heating fuel for on-premises
use at a destination located o the light-traffic road.
(5)   A truck or other motor vehicle when transporting and delivering materials
for on-premises use at a destination located on the light-traffic road or a
truck or other motor vehicle when performing contractual work at a destination
located on the light-traffic road.
(6)   Buses operated by a school or other educational institution for the
purposes of transporting students between home and school.
(c)   This ordinance shall be effective whenever appropriate signs are erected
indicating the contents hereof.
Adopted this 11th day of June, 2015               City of Southport
                        By: /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
2.   Set Date for Public Hearing Regarding Underground Electric
The second public hearing was scheduled for Wednesday, June 4, 6:30 p.m., at
the Community Building. Alderman Coring to request use of a message sign
announcing the meeting from Brunswick County with placement in front of Fire
Headquarters.
3.   Sewer Capacity Purchase
City Manager McDuffie explained that HDR Engineering, Inc. of the Carolinas had
been employed by Brunswick County to prepare a Preliminary Engineering Report
on the West Brunswick Regional Wastewater System to determine how Southport’s
requested wastewater capacity can be accomplished. He stated that the
engineering firm has asked for confirmation of the city’s wastewater capacity
requested.
Board consensus that the request is for a minimum of 750,000 gallons and a
maximum of one (1) million gallons.
4.   Budget Workshop
The Board heard from the city manager regarding the cost to continue the
employee and retiree health care plan with the North Carolina League of
Municipality. He indicated the city hopes to join the state’s health care plan
in 2016. The League plan most comparable to the state’s plan is $896/ month/
employee. He stated that changes in coverage should be minor but if an employee
chooses to keep the city’s current plan, the employee would pay an additional
$62/month. He pointed out that the proposed budget has $833 month allocated and
to fund the $896/month plan, an additional $37,420 will need to be allocated in
the budget.
City Manager McDuffie recommended the $896/month/employee plan with option for
employee to pay an additional $62/month and to help offset the cost, he
recommended the city no longer pay 30% of the cost for employee dependents, no
longer allow spouses to be covered under the city plan and ask department heads
to make cuts to their respective budgets.
Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Poole to accept the recommendation
of the city manager. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Capital
The Board reviewed capital outlay requests from city departments:
Amount            Description
$ 1 Million         Police Department Renovation
$ 639,548         Automatic Meter Reading System
$ 500,000         Rescue Squad Renovation
$ 82,500         Dump Truck
$ 62,500         Generator for City Hall
$ 45,500         500 Load Management Switches
$ 45,000         Accounting, Utility and Payroll Software
$ 38,500         2015 Chevrolet Tahoe for Rescue Squad
$ 30,000         Police Cruiser
$ 27,000         2015 F-350 Pickup
$ 25,000         Forklift
$ 19,000         Large Format Printer/Scanner
$ 18,800         Water System Altitude Valves & Radios
$ 17,400         Police Equipment: Body Cameras, 2 Guns and Holsters,
            Radar Gun, Car Computers
$ 17,300         Ft. Johnston Playground Equipment and Mulch
$ 16,000         West Brown Street Water Main
$ 16,000         Two (2) Replacement Mowers
$ 13,500         Ground Penetrating Radar
$ 10,000         Painting Interior of Community Building
$ 8,100         Scissor Lift
$ 7,500         Golf Cart
$ 6,000         Generator at Water Tank
$ 3,500         Pipe Rack
 
RECESS – 8:07
RETURN TO SESSION – 8:17
Department heads in attendance presented their budget requests.
Parks and Recreation
Ms. Heather Hemphill, Director, Parks and Recreation Department reported her
departmental budget included a part-time basketball coordinator for assisting
her with coordinating youth basketball leagues.
Ms. Hemphill explained the budget includes $ 57,000 for engineering fees for
the Lord Street Gym and the City Dock. She indicated $50,000 would be covered
by a recently awarded grant. She stated that the dredging must be done if boat
slips are to be useable.
Ms. Hemphill announced that bleachers had been purchased for Stephens Park and
flag football would be played there in the fall.
Ms. Hemphill was encouraged to speak with Charlie Miller with the Board of
Education to determine if the schools would be participating or assisting with
funding at Stephens Park.
Community Building
Director Hemphill pointed out that the personnel costs and department supplies
had not changed. She indicated the utilities had risen due to the 7% tax
increase and the only capital request was $10,000 for painting the interior of
the building. Board consensus to purchase paint and have city staff do the
painting.
Rescue
Tyler Johnson, Chief, reported that calls had been missed due to being on
transports, so the second ambulance had been up for a portion of the day and
crews had been on 24/7 for the last eight (8) months.
He indicated two (2) heart monitors need to be reconditioned at a price of $700
each and has been budgeted. He stated the capital outlay for the department was
for renovations to the building.
Alderman Adams suggested rescue squad and other emergency responders employ a
screen on the scene of accidents to protect the privacy of victims of an
accident.
Police
Chief Jerry Dove reported that fuel costs had been fluctuating resulting in
rising vehicle costs.
The Board discussed the possibility of the city providing fuel as had been the
practice in the past and directed the city manager to get a cost for it.
Public Works
   Water & Sewer
   Public Works Director, David Fox, pointed out that the department was short
three positions due to two retirements and one employee leaving for a position
with Brunswick County. He noted that one vacant position requires a Department
of Environmental & Natural Resources (DENR) Operator In Charge (ORC)
Collections License.
Mr. Fox, discussed the increased maintenance costs of vehicles, cost to flush
manholes, request for ground penetrating radar for locating lines and necessary
maintenance on the water tank.
   Building & Grounds
   Mr. Fox reported that Building & Grounds are responsible for all janitorial
duties in all city facilities and mowing citywide. He stated a new employee is
included in the budget in order for the new public bathrooms to be maintained.
Responding to Alderman Adams, Mr. Fox explained the request for $18,000 for
tree trimming noting that many large trees are dying and are costly to remove.
The Board was steadfast that the city was to be kept clean and mowed.
Streets
Mr. Fox pointed out an increase for replacement of safety equipment; e.g., hard
hats, vests, rain gear, first aid kits.
Planning & Code Enforcement
Building Inspector, Wayne Strickland proposed increases in developmental and
building permit fees along with implementation of Fire Marshal fees. He pointed
out the fees were last updated in 1999. He stated the proposed changes would
result in the city fees being more than those of Brunswick County but less than
those of Oak Island.
The Rate Review Committee was charged with reviewing the proposal.
Recess- 9:40 p.m.
The meeting was recessed to June 1, 2015 at 6:30 p.m., Fire Headquarters, 1011
N. Howe Street.
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:   /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
JUNE 4, 2015
PUBLIC HEARING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  PUBLIC HEARING MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING JUNE 4, 2015
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor Robert D. Howard
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Nelson Adams, Jim Powell,
            Buddy Barnes, Emily Humphreys
ABSENT:         Alderman Coring
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Ellie Pittenger, Load Management Coordinator
A)   Call to Order – 6:30 p.m.
Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Humphreys welcomed everyone and gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Humphreys led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
         ……………………………………………..   
Mayor Howard stated the purpose of the meeting was for the second public
hearing to get residents input regarding moving Southport’s electric utility
underground.
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Poole to go into Public Hearing.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Mayor Howard addressed the approximately 40 people in attendance. He emphasized
the rare opportunity to consider relocating the electric lines underground and
he discussed the city’s goal to provide reliable, clean electricity free of
disruptions. He pointed out some of the advantages of pursuing the endeavor:
less storm damage, aesthetically pleasing, less vulnerable to wind and ice and
reduced butchering of Southport’s prized Live Oaks. He explained the
opportunity comes about through the sale of assets of the North Carolina
Eastern Municipal Agency (NCEMPA), of which the city is one of 32 municipality
members, to Duke Progress Energy. The sale will result in considerable savings
for Southport’s wholesale power cost allowing for realization of the project
without assessments, increased taxes or increased electric fees for Southport
residents. He stated the project is estimated to cost $14 - $22 million and a
bond initiative would be presented to the citizens of Southport.
City Manager McDuffie led a presentation of how the sale would affect overhead
lines and power bills. (Presentation included as Attachment #1)
Mr. Ellie Pittenger, Load Management Coordinator, discussed the Load Management
Program that can save 4 cents per kilowatt hour which equates to $80 monthly if
the customer participates in the R-12 level of the program. He stated Southport
is the only city in the state that offers a discount instead of a credit.
Ms. Julie Canny, 6241 Navigator Way, spoke to the Board in favor of giving
customers relief on their utility bills. She stated she is a retired Manager of
the North Carolina Utility Commission. She stated her opinion that underground
is not perfect, it will go out during storms just not as much as overhead
lines. She referenced a 2003 report, precipitated by a 2002 major ice storm, by
the North Carolina Natural Disaster Preparedness Task Force entitled
Feasibility of Placing Electric Distribution Facilities Underground. She
questioned the projected completion time for the project, estimating it would
be as ten years instead of five.
Mr. John Simmons, 315 W. Brown Street, former 40 year employee of Duke Energy,
stated his property on Oak Island with underground electric experiences nearly
as many outages as his home in Southport. He asked about the cost of the load
management devices. Mr. Pittenger advised him of the costs.
Mr. Al Willis, 6150 Riversound Circle, quoted aspects of the NC Task Force
Feasibility Study and spoke in favor of utility bill relief. He stated his
opinion that electric usage would decline dramatically with the increased usage
of natural gas.
Mr. Ed Boguskie, 502 W. Brown Street, questioned if natural gas usage would
effectively reduce the customer base. He stated his opinion that hooking up
underground should be required, noting that his home has underground services
but the transformer is on the ground and is affected by storms. He supported
pursuing a feasibility study and stated it is important not to do anything that
would turn people away from coming to Southport.
Ms. Harriet Davis, 605 N. Clarendon Avenue, stated her frustration with the 30
years with ElectriCities and the associated costs. She spoke in favor of
utility bill relief.
Ms. Betty Timberlake, 118 N. Atlantic Avenue, stated her support for the
underground proposal. She talked about her love of Southport and its majestic
trees. She discussed the rights of electric utility to cut the trees and the
resultant damage.
Mr. Paul Fisher, 110 River Drive, supported the underground proposal. He added
that the existing system would have to be in peak condition for the proposal to
work. He suggested keeping electric rates in place until December 2015 when the
full impact of the sale will be known. He talked about his personal savings by
utilizing the Load Management Program.
Ms. Sandy Spencer, 410 W. Brunswick Street, supported the underground proposal
encouraging city officials to investigate the costs to the citizens and doing
it in a reasoned manner with as little affect as possible. She commended former
Alderman Paul Fisher for his work on the NCEMPA Commission.
Cherie Oliver, 613 E. Leonard spoke in support of the underground proposal and
offered her opinion that the above ground system could use some attention.
Responding to an inquiry from Ms. Jean Parker, 315 W. 8th Street and a Park
Avenue resident pertaining to possible assistance for homeowners to hook up
underground to their homes, Mayor Howard responded that the feasibility study
would include that aspect of the project and the related costs. 
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to come out of Public
Hearing. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Mayor Howard thanked everyone for attending and announced that the Board would
meet next in regular session on June 11. He stated the Board would be
considering returning to their 6:00 p.m. time slot.
Adjournment- 7:27 p.m.
Alderman Poole moved to adjourn the meeting, second by Alderman Powell.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:   /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
JUNE 8, 2015
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN   BUDGET WORKSHOP MINUTES
FIRE HEADQUARTERS   JUNE 8, 2015
1011 N. HOWE STREET SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor Robert D. Howard
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Nelson Adams, Todd Coring,
            Jim Powell, Buddy Barnes, Emily Humphreys
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
   Cindy Brochure, Tourism & Economic Development Director
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
   Vickie Potter, Community Building Coordinator
A)   Call to Order - 7:00 p.m.
   Mayor Howard called the June 4, 2015 recessed meeting back to order at 7:00
p.m.
B)   Announcements
   Mayor Howard updated the Board on the status of Rob Gandy Boulevard,
announcing that approval for opening the road must come from the N.C. Board of
Transportation that is scheduled to meet July 2. He talked about options for
getting the new road open as soon as possible to relieve congestion, one of
which would be for the City to take title to the property and open it as a City
street.
   Mayor Howard discussed an analysis of auditing fees paid by various
municipalities from 2010-2013, noting that Southport's fees were among the
highest. He indicated that staff, at his request, had contacted three other
firms for quotations and prices had come in substantially lower than the
$46,400 quoted by local accounting firm Berry, Padgett, Chandler. He announced
that the Board would consider a contract for auditing services at their June 11
meeting.
BUDGET
   City Manager McDuffie pointed out that per previous Budget Workshops,
changes and cuts were made in order to present a balanced budget, i.e., all but
three departments office supplies budget requests were cut 10%, $13,000 for an
engineering printer requested by Planning & Code Enforcement was cut, request
for a backhoe removed, and the painting of the Community Building will be
undertaken during the winter months with city staff. He stated a 1.8% raise for
all city employees was included.
Tourism & Economic Development
   Cindy Brochure, Director, explained some of her budget requests:
"   LaserJet Printer that will print 11" x 17" posters and flyers - $3,300
"   Video Camera for security - $1,650
"   Janitorial/Office Supplies - $12,800
Ms. Brochure indicated the heating and air system for Fort Johnston Visitor
Center and Museum is in need of replacement and it was not budgeted for. She
stated that mini units have been added because the main system cannot carry the
load.
   She announced that Coastal Living Magazine would be announcing the winner of
the America's Happiest Seaside Town contest starting June 9 at 7:00 a.m.
counting down each hour to the #1 spot.
FIRE
Fire Chief Drew pointed out that the Fire Department budget, $718,400 is funded
through fire fees and grants. He reported that the department brought in
$25,000 over the projected 2014-2015 budget.
Chief Drew indicated that the department was looking into providing screens
that can be used to provide privacy at the scene of accidents as required by
Alderman Adams.
FY 2014-2015 Budget Amendments
City Manager McDuffie explained a request for adoption of Budget Amendment #12
for an additional $56,000 payable to Brunswick County to treat city sewage at
the West Brunswick Regional Wastewater Treatment Plant.
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Poole to approve Budget Amendment
#12. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Budget Amendment #12
Fiscal Year 2014-2015
WHEREAS the City of Southport desires to contract services for the amount of
Sewer Collection fees to Brunswick County.
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2014-2015 needs to be amended to
reflect the transfers necessary to allow use of these funds; and
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2014-2015 shall be
amended as follows:
                           Increase/
Water Sewer Fund      Previous Amount         (Decrease)   Amended Amount
Appropriations
Contract Services - 4400       $ 373,300         $ 56,000    $ 425,300
Debt Service     7100          $ 184,129         $ (56,000)    $ 128,129
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, June 8, 2015
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
/s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
City Manager McDuffie explained that Budget Amendment #13 was for purchase of
new street barricades and supplies for the water and sewer department. He
stated that barricades provided on Rob Gandy Boulevard at the request of
Capital Power had been damaged.
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Aldermen Barnes to approve Budget Amendment
#13. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Budget Amendment #13
Fiscal Year 2014-2015
WHEREAS the City of Southport desires to purchase supplies and make additional
repairs to facilities and equipment.
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2014-2015 needs to be amended to
reflect the transfers necessary to allow use of these funds; and
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2014-2015 shall be
amended as follows:
                           Increase/
Water Sewer Fund      Previous Amount         (Decrease)   Amended Amount
Appropriations
Sewer Supplies - 2606       $ 60,100         $ 36,534    $ 95,800
Debt Service    - 7100          $ 128,129         $ (36,534)    $ 92,429
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, June 8, 2015
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
/s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
Occupancy Tax
City Manager McDuffie, responding to a previous request from Alderman Barnes,
provided the Board with a listing of 20 tax payers that are paying occupancy
tax.
Yard Waste Carts
City Manager McDuffie pointed out that the City has a contract with Waste
Industries through June 30, 2013 for recycling and yard debris removal. He
informed the Board that Waste Industries no longer repairs or replaces the yard
waste carts and he proposed buying carts to sell to citizens when needed.
After discussion pertaining to the contractual obligations of Waste Industries,
board consensus for the city manager to further investigate the city's contract
with the company.
Overtime
City Manager McDuffie pointed out that the FY 2015-2016 overtime budget was
cut.
Alderman Adams noted that the 4th of July Festival has historically accounted
for $14,000 of the overtime budget.
Beautification Committee
City Manager McDuffie indicated that $2,700 was in the proposed budget for the
Beautification Committee.
John Smith Cemetery
Alderman Adams indicated he would like to see the road running through John
Smith Cemetery paved. It was noted that a ground penetrating radar unit was
proposed in the budget and would be utilized to locate graves and determine the
right-of-way prior to paving.
ABC Board
City Manager McDuffie explained that there was a significant disparity in
revenues for the upcoming year from the ABC Store. He stated that the city is
projecting $325,000 for FY 2015-2016 while the store is projecting $142,000. He
pointed out that the store is expected to undergo renovations.
Board consensus directing the city manager to contact the chairman of the ABC
Board and emphasize that the Board of Aldermen find the $142,000 unacceptable
and expect revenues in the amount of $275,000.
Planning & Zoning Fees
City Manager McDuffie reported that the Rate Review Committee will meet June 9
to consider and report back to the Board on the proposed increased to
developmental applications and building permit fees.
Waterfront Development
City Manager McDuffie pointed out that there was no money in the budget for
waterfront development and it is hoped grants will be obtained.
Old Wreaths
City Manager McDuffie reported that an old Christmas wreath decoration was
posted for sale on GovDeals.com with the bid period closing June 9. He stated
the additional wreaths would be offered for sale to the general public at the
bid price.
Water & Sewer
Board consensus to contract with Norris & Tunstall in the amount not-to-exceed
$3,000 to perform a study on ways to alleviate flooding at Yacht Basin and W.
Moore Streets.
Police Department
City Manager McDuffie reported that bids are being solicited for putting on a
new roof at the Police Department. He stated that in order to get roofing
materials on the roof, the electric lines on Davis Street need to be placed
underground and an electric pole removed. He indicated Brunswick Electric will
provide a cost to do the work and money is available in the current year
budget. Board consensus to proceed.
Wooden Boat Show
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to close S. Caswell Avenue
and W. Moore Street from Caswell Avenue to the Yacht Basin and permit use of
the Visitor Center Annex for use by the Wooden Boat Show to be held Saturday,
September 26, 2015. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
          ……………………………………………………..
All members spoke favorably about the budget presented.
A Public Hearing on the proposed FY 2015-2016 Budget will be held Thursday,
June 11, 2015, 1:00 p.m. at the Community Building.
Adjournment- 8:42 p.m.
Alderman Poole moved to adjourn the meeting, second by Alderman Barnes.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:   /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
JUNE 11, 2015
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING JUNE 11, 2015
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor Robert D. Howard
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Nelson Adams, Todd Coring,
            Jim Powell, Buddy Barnes, Emily Humphreys
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
   Jerry Dove, Police Chief
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   David Fox, Public Works Director
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   John Allen, Community Development Specialist
   Ellie Pittenger, Load Management Coordinator
A)   Call to Order – 1:00 p.m.
Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 1:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Humphreys welcomed everyone and gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Humphreys led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Public Comment
   Mr. Tom Lombardi, 5021 Oarlock Court, and member of the Beautification
Committee, congratulated the City for winning America’s Happiest Seaside Town
contest through Coastal Living Magazine and he praised the committee’s efforts
on multiple projects.
    Ms. Lora Sharkey, 432 Cades Trail, asked if funding was included in the FY
2015-2016 Budget for improvements recommended in the Comprehensive Pedestrian
Transportation Plan adopted by the Board February 2014.
   Fire Chief Charles Drew proposed dedicating the vacant property at 109 E.
Nash Street, the first location of a Southport Fire Department, as a memorial
park. He requested forming a partnership consisting of an Alderman, himself,
Director of Southport Parks and Recreation, Chairman of the Beautification
Committee, Director of the Southport Tourism Department, and a representative
of the Southport Historical Society to design and explore funding sources.
   Ms. Bonnie Bray, 317 N. Rhett Street, spoke to the Board about the proposed
FY 2015-2016 Budget contending it contained accounting errors.
E)   ETHICS STATEMENT: 
Mayor Howard stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any conflict of
interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect to matters on
the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
F)   Approval of Agenda
   Mayor Howard requested addition to the agenda; update of electrical meters
and electric underground study.
   Alderman Barnes requested addition of an update from the Beautification
Committee.
   Alderman Poole requested addition of consideration of a contract for
auditing services and amendment to the Code of Ordinances: Peddlers License;
and pulling from the consent agenda and placing on the regular agenda the
Ordinance Change to Set Time of Regular Meeting.
   Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Powell to approve the agenda as
amended.  Unanimous vote; motion carried.
F)   Announcements
   Mayor Howard announced that Rob Gandy Boulevard had opened for use this
date.
Alderman Poole announced that Dosher Memorial Hospital would be dedicating the
new patient facility in honor of local physician, Dr. Robert Zukoski, on
Sunday, June 14.
Alderman Poole announced that the Chamber of Commerce would begin sale of 4th
of July t-shirts and American Flags on Sunday, June 14.
Ms. Shirley Snyder, Beautification Committee chair, gave an update on the
“Bring Back Our Boats” Christmas wreath campaign, emphasizing that a recent
community concert raised $5,000 towards the $30,000 goal for 60 wreaths. She
stated an estimated 475 people attended the concert; a total of $24,500 had
been raised to date and fund raising would continue with a presence at the
weekly Waterfront Market.
CONSENT AGENDA
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to approve the consent
agenda. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
1.   Minutes for May 6, 2015 special meeting and May 14, 2015 regular minutes -
approved
AGENDA
2.   Ordinance to Set Time of Regular Meeting
   Mayor Howard noted that the Board had previously discussed moving the
regular meeting time back to the original 6:00 p.m. time slot. He pointed out
that the time change required an amendment to the Ordinance.
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to adopt an amendment to An
Ordinance Establishing the Time and Place of the Regular Meeting of the Board
of Aldermen. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING THE TIME AND PLACE OF THE REGULAR MEETING OF THE
BOARD OF ALDERMEN
BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport that section
2-48 of the Code of Ordinances is hereby amended to read as follows:
Sec. 2-48. Regular meetings.
There shall be a regular meeting of the Board of Aldermen at the meeting room
of city hall, or at such other place as may be designated, on the second
Thursday of each month at 6:00 p.m., unless otherwise specified, in which case
notice shall be given in accordance with applicable law.
Adopted this 11th day of June, 2015         City of Southport
                     By: /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
3.   Public Hearing for 2015-2016 Budget
Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Poole to go into Public Hearing.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Mayor Howard thanked city staff for developing a budget that provides for the
needs of the community without a tax increase.
Mr. Nick Kern, 415 Burrington Avenue, questioned the availability of the
proposed budget for public review.
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to close the Public Hearing.
Unanimous vote; motioned carried.
4.   ElectriCities; Ordinance Approving Sale of Assets
Mr. Paul Fisher, Commissioner, North Carolina Eastern Municipal Power Agency
(NCEMPA), introduced Mr. Roy Jones, Chief Operating Officer of NCEMPA.
Mr. Roy Jones presented to the Board and audience a detailed presentation of
the specifics and impacts of the asset sale between North Carolina Eastern
Municipal Power Agency (NCEMPA) and Duke Energy Progress. He pointed out that
the sale would not impact Southport’s electrical distribution system or
physical infrastructure, Southport’s debt will be reduced by 77 percent, there
will be a 14 percent reduction in the wholesale power costs, and Southport and
the other 31 municipalities of the Power Agency will shed their ownership and
liabilities in two nuclear and two coal-fired plants.
Mr. Jones explained the three contracts before the Board for consideration:
∙   Power Sales Agreements Termination Agreement which terminated all pre-
existing contracts
∙   Debt Service Support Contract
∙   Full Requirements Power Sales Agreement which is a new 20 or 30 year
contract by which the City agrees to purchase electricity from Duke Energy
Progress
Alderman Adams motioned, second by Alderman Powell to approve the Ordinance
determining that it is in the best interests of the City of Southport to
approve the Asset Purchase Agreement and the Full Requirements Power Purchase
Agreement between North Carolina Eastern Municipal Agency and Duke Energy
Progress, Inc., to consent to the transactions contemplated thereby, and to
approve and authorize the execution and delivery of the Debt Service Support
Contract, the Full Requirements Power Sales Agreement and the Power Sales
Agreements Termination Agreement between the City of Southport and North
Carolina Eastern Municipal Power Agency as corrected. (Ordinance, Agreements &
Contracts included as Attachment #1)
Discussion
Alderman Barnes stated for the record that he would vote for the Ordinance but
he felt “like we are going from the frying pan into the fire. Just like 30
years ago, we don’t know what is going to happen in the future, so there is a
big risk in passing this.”
Roll Call Vote:    Alderman Adams     Aye
     Alderman Barnes     Aye
     Alderman Coring    Aye
     Alderman Humphreys    Aye
     Alderman Poole    Aye
     Alderman Powell    Aye
 Motion Carried:   6-0 
5.   Consideration of Load Management Ordinance
Mr. Paul Fisher spoke in support of the Load Management Program and the savings
benefits. He gave an example of the potential savings referencing a monthly
bill of $104.30, $43.20/month savings using load management for an annual
savings of $518. He pointed out that the City saves $150,000 annually utilizing
load management.
Mr. Ellie Pittenger, Load Management Coordinator, talked about the need to shed
the electric load for the city, noting that approximately 100 new homes are
being built annually and increasing the demand. He outlined a proposed policy
for requiring all new construction to install load management switches.
City Manager McDuffie indicated that staff is requesting adoption of an
Ordinance to require all new construction to install the load management
switches. He pointed out that customers would not be required to use them.
Alderman Adams repeated his position taken in August 2014, when the issue was
previously considered, stating he would not support requiring the switches.
Stating her support for the load management program, Alderman Poole agreed with
Alderman Adams that the decision to participate in the program be at the
discretion of the individual.
Alderman Coring stated appreciation for the information provided by staff,
stated he could see the benefits of load management but agreed with Aldermen
Adams and Poole that the switches should not be mandatory.
Item died for lack of a motion.
RECESS – 2:15 p.m.
RECONVENE – 2:21 p.m.
6.   Southport Presbyterian Church Expansion Phase II
Mr. John Urban, Architect, presented a proposed Phase II 13,350 sq. ft.
addition to the Presbyterian Church consisting of restrooms, nursery,
administrative offices, fellowship hall, on-site parking and storm water
retention pond.
7.   Rate Committee Recommendation
Alderman Barnes reported that the Rate Committee met and fully reviewed
proposed rate changes for developmental applications; e.g., subdivision,
zoning, special use, building permits, fire prevention and building trades
permits. He pointed out that rates had not been evaluated since 1999.
Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Poole to accept the committee
recommendation to increase rates as presented. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
DEVELOPMENT APPLICATIONS
CITY OF SOUTHPORT
ZONING                     FEE
Rezoning:   Less than 3 acres               $ 500.00
      3.01 - 6.00 acres               $ 1,000.00
      6.01+ acres                  $ 1,000.00 + $20/acre   
SUBDIVISION
Minor Plat:   1-2 lots                  $ 200.00
      3-7 lots                  $ 200.00 + $2/lot   
      Creation of lots (heirs)            $ 100.00
Major:   8 or more lots from any 1 tax parcel            $ 1,000.00 + $20/lot
      Master Plan Approval (PUD)         $ 1,000.00 + $20/acre
Subdivision Exception                  $ 200.00
PUD (Planned Unit Development):   
      Special Use/Land Use Plan          $ 2,000.00
      Land Use Plan               $ 2,000.00
      Modification (Minor)            $ 500.00
      Modification (Major)            $ 1,000.00
PLANNED BUILDING GROUP   
      Sketch Plan               $ -0-
      Project Greater than 7,000 sq. ft. or
       more than one building            $ 1,500.00
      Modification               $ 1,500.00
      Apartments/Townhouses, Condos/Mixed Use
       Site Development Plan            $ 2,500.00
CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT               $ 750.00
      Home Occupation            $ 250.00
      Modification               $ 250.00
VARIANCE                     $ 500.00
      Modification               $ 250.00
APPEAL                     $ 250.00
INTERPRETATION                  $ 250.00
ZONING TEXT CHANGE               $ 100.00
CODE OF ORDINANCES CHANGE            $ 100.00
ZONING LETTER                  $ 100.00
FLOOD PERMIT                  $ 100.00
8.   Transportation Committee Recommendation for Limiting Time of Parking in
Yacht Basin
Mr. Allen explained that the Transportation Committee met and discussed ways to
curb the practice of parking all day in the Yacht Basin area by individuals
working on Bald Head Island. He indicated the committee considered a proposal
to place a four (4) hour time limit and unanimously decided to recommend to the
Board of Aldermen not to add a parking limitation.
Alderman Barnes commented that he sees the same cars parked daily in the Yacht
Basin area by 7:00 a.m., people boarding boats traveling to Bald Head Island
for work and he stated his opinion it is not fair to the citizens of Southport
and that a time limit is justifiable and needed. He commented that Bald Head
Island provides parking at Deep Point Marina.
Chief Dove pointed out that the parking in the Yacht Basin area is public
parking and available for anyone to use. He spoke about the difficulty
enforcing a parking time limit and he suggested issuing courtesy/warning
letters and working with Bald Head Island officials to find a remedy to the
problem.
Alderman Poole raised concerns for those homeowners using the public spaces
because they do not have on-site parking.
Alderman Coring spoke in support of the courtesy letters and suggested Alderman
Barnes work with Chief Dove to identify the vehicles parking in the area for
the entire day.
Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Poole to give the Police Chief 60
days to try to work out an amicable solution for the ongoing problem. Unanimous
vote; motion carried.
9.   Input on Community Building Noise
City Manager McDuffie requested input from the Board regarding the concerns
from neighbors of the community building that music played on the outside deck
until 10:00 p.m. was too loud. He pointed out that the current contract for
rental of the facility allows music outside until 10:00 p.m and inside until
11:00 p.m.
Mayor Howard stated his concern for the citizens living in the neighborhood,
noting he had received complaints about the music.
Alderman Poole indicated she had received complaints as well.
Alderman Barnes remarked that the city’s noise ordinance allows for bands to
play anywhere until 10:00 p.m. and a band or DJ is common with rental of the
Community Building.
Attorney Isenberg advised that the city’s rental agreement can include any
terms the Board chooses and there is no requirement that music be permitted for
any particular period of time.
Alderman Adams suggested reducing the time playing music outside is allowed. He
pointed out that the city’s Parks and Recreation Department hosts movies and
bands on the lawn of Fort Johnston which is next door to the Community
Building.
Alderman Adams motioned, second by Alderman Poole to lower the permitted time
for outside music at the Community Building from 10:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
10.   Input on Horse and Carriage on Howe and Moore Streets
Alderman Poole reported that she and Alderman Humphreys reviewed the operation
and route of the horse drawn carriage tours with emphasis on the placement of
the carriage on Howe Street for loading and the route’s impact on Moore and
Howe Streets vehicular traffic and pedestrian safety.
Tourism Director, Cindy Brochure, told the Board that the carriage company is
willing to work with the city.
Staff was directed to get a reasonable solution worked out for the tour company
and Southport citizens.
11.   Resolution of Intent to Finance Remodeling of 201 E. Moore Street
City Manager McDuffie explained that the Local Government Commission (LGC) and
U.S. Treasury regulations require a resolution of intent to reimburse for
financing improvements to 201 E. Moore Street in order for roof repairs to
begin.
Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Poole to adopt the Resolution
Declaring Official Intent to Reimburse. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
CITY OF SOUTHPORT, NORTH CAROLINA
RESOLUTION DECLARING
OFFICIAL INTENT TO REIMBURSE
WHEREAS, the City of Southport desires to undertake certain renovations to its
municipal building located at 201 E. Moore St; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the City to finance those improvements through
suitable financing which financing will be obtained as a result of a process
involving Local Government Commission oversight and approval; and
WHEREAS, this Resolution and declaration (the “Declaration”) is made pursuant
to the requirements of the United State Treasury Regulations Section 1.150-
2 and is intended to constitute a Declaration of Official Intent to Reimburse
under such Treasury Regulations Section; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport is authorized to
resolve and declare the official intent of the City of Southport, North
Carolina (the “Issuer”) with respect to the matters herein.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the City of Southport proposes to undertake
the Project as described below, to incur the related and necessary project
expenditures, and to finance the cost of the Project with the proceeds of debt
to be issued by the City for the project all as described below:
1.   Expenditures to be Incurred. The City of Southport anticipates incurring
estimated expenditures of $1,000,000 for renovations to the municipal building
201 E. Moore St. Southport, NC.
2.   Plan of Finance. The Issuer intends to finance the costs of the Project
with the proceeds of financing or other suitable form of debt, to be issued by
the City (the “Borrowing”), the interest on which is to be excluded from gross
income for Federal income tax purposes.
3.   Maximum Principal Amount of Debt to be Issued. The estimated principal
amount of the Borrowing to be incurred by the Issuer to finance the project is
$1,000,000.
4.   Declaration of Official Intent to Reimburse. The Issuer, City of
Southport, NC, hereby declares its official intent to reimburse itself with the
proceeds of the Borrowing for any of the Expenditures incurred by it prior to
the issuance of the Borrowing.
Adopted this 11th day of June 2015.            City of Southport
                         /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
ATTEST: Michele Windham, City Clerk
12.   Color Coding of Fire Hydrants
Chief Drew explained that the Southport Fire Department is rated on a point
system by the Insurance Services Office (ISO), and color coding the fire
hydrants will garner additional points towards maintaining the department’s
high rating of 4.
Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Coring to permit color coding of
the city fire hydrants to coincide with the gallons of flow they provide.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
13.   Request to Increase Roster of Fire Department
Chief Drew explained that the fire department’s roster is limited to 40 members
per ordinance. He stated applications have been submitted and he requested
increasing the roster to 50. Additionally, he asked that he and Assistant Chief
Coring be permitted to update Chapter 7, Fire Prevention and Protection of the
Code of Ordinances.
Mayor Howard recommended involving the City Manager and City Attorney in the
Code update.
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to increase the roster of
the fire department from 40 to 50 active volunteers. Unanimous vote; motion
carried. 
14.   CPA Audit Contract
Mayor Howard pointed out that the cost of auditing services had increased,
prompting staff to obtain additional quotes. The quotes before the Board for
consideration of a contract were presented:
∙   Berry, Padgett & Chandler          $ 46,400
∙   S. Preston Douglas & Associates, LLP    $ 36,000
∙   Thompson, Price, Scott, Adams & Co., P.A. $ 23,950
Mayor Howard emphasized that the audit report is required to be filed with the
LGC by the 1 st of October.
Alderman Powell stated he had spoken with Menton Padgett of Berry, Padgett &
Chandler and that the fee had increased due to city personnel problems.
Noting that the personnel problems had been corrected, Alderman Adams suggested
that staff renegotiate the fee with Berry, Padgett & Chandler.
Mayor Howard appointed Aldermen Adams and Powell with contacting Berry, Padgett
& Chandler to renegotiate a potential contract and bring the information back
to the Board on Tuesday, June 16, at 6:00 p.m.
15.   Peddlers Permit Ordinance
City Manager McDuffie presented an amendment to the Code of Ordinances for
clarification of peddler, transient merchant, itinerant merchants and itinerant
vendor permits.
City Attorney Isenberg stated he had reviewed the amendment and a reasonable
fee can be charged for the permit.
Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Poole to adopt the Ordinance and
to set the application fee at $50. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 10, ARTICLE III, OF THE SOUTHPORT CITY CODE
   BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport that
section 10-58 of the Code of Ordinances is hereby amended to read as follows:
Sec. 10-58. Regulatory fee.
    The fee for the issuance of a peddler's permit, transient merchant's
permit, itinerant merchant's permit or itinerant vendor's permit shall be set
by the Board of Aldermen and shall be based on the cost of regulation of the
activities regulated in this article. A schedule of said fees and rates shall
be maintained in the office of the city clerk and the fees are payable at the
time of application for a permit. In the event, however, that a transient
merchant, itinerant merchant or itinerant vendor is engaged in a temporary
business at several places within the city at the same time, said merchant
shall pay the fee for each place of business as required under code 10-52.
   BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport
that the word “license” is hereby replaced with the word “permit” wherever it
appears in Chapter 10, Article III, of the Code of Ordinances.
Adopted this 11thth day of June, 2015.
                     City of Southport
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
16.   Update on Electric Meters
City Manager McDuffie reported that he had met with Brunswick Electric
Membership Corp. (BEMC) regarding changing out the city’s 2,700 electric meters
and taking on the city’s electric service billing. He outlined some of the
benefits: a substantial savings per each meter for the city, allow customer
website access to electric usage, prepay billing, reduction in delinquent costs
and reduce the length of the billing cycle. He explained the features of the
pre-payment kiosk and indicated the entire project could be achieved for
$389,000 funded through the electric fund. He stated a savings of approximately
$350,000 annually would be realized.
Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Powell to proceed with getting the
meter change out and billing program implemented. Unanimous vote; motion
carried.
17.   Consideration of Authority of City Manager to Obtain Pricing to Take
Underground Study to Next Level
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Powell to direct the City manager
to seek proposals to conduct a feasibility study for placing the city’s
electrical system underground. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
18.   Adoption of the 2015-2016 Budget
City Manager McDuffie addressed the comments made during public comment and the
public hearing:
∙   Powell Bill funds are available to do improvements per the Pedestrian Plan
and the Traffic & Transportation Committee will be making recommendations to
the Board.
∙   13 budget amendments were adopted in FY 2014-2015.
∙   The contract with Brunswick County for additional sewer allocation was
approved by the Board in July.
∙   The City will realize a substantial savings by ordering 500 Load Management
switches at one time.
∙   The proposed budget was available in the Clerk’s office, at the public
library and on the city’s website for review by the public.
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Poole to adopt the proposed FY
2015-2016 Budget with a tax rate of $0.2456 per $100 of assessed property
valuation. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
BUDGET ORDINANCE - FISCAL YEAR 2015-2016
CITY OF SOUTHPORT   
BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that, following a duly advertised public hearing, the following
annual budget ordinance is adopted to estimate revenues and make appropriations
for the financial operations of the City of Southport for the fiscal year
beginning July 1, 2015, and ending June 30, 2016.
SECTION I. GENERAL FUND
A. Anticipated Revenues. The following revenues are estimated to be available
in the General Fund for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2015, and ending June
30, 2016:
Ad Valorem and Motor Vehicle Taxes               $ 1,788,353
Local Option Sales Tax                  $ 717,600
Utility Franchise, Solid Waste, and Beer & Wine Taxes         $ 314,200   
ABC Store Distribution                  $ 288,000
Room Occupancy Taxes                  $ 82,000
Refuse Collection Fees                  $ 227,000
Inspection Permit and Other Code Enforcement Fees         $ 211,900
Fire District Fees and Other Fire-Related Revenue         $ 718,400
County Rescue Support and Other Rescue-Related Revenue      $ 201,000
Police Grants and Other Police-Related Revenue            $ 20,000
Recreation Programs and Other Parks-Related Revenue         $ 25,000
Community Building Rentals                  $ 98,000
Visitor Center and Other Tourism-Related Revenue         $ 65,000
Other Revenues                     $ 44,100
Grants Park & Recreations for Gym               $ 57,000
1029 N. Howe Street Lease and CAM Revenue            $ 91,429
Powell Bill Distribution & Fund Balance            $ 182,500
Proceeds from Financing                  $ 1,500,000
Fund Balance Appropriation                  $ 15,000
Total Revenues                     $ 6,646,482
B. Expenditures. The following amounts are hereby appropriated in the General
Fund for the expenses of the city government and its activities for the fiscal
year beginning July 1, 2015, and ending June 30, 2016:
Governing Body                     $ 161,969   
Administration                     $ 349,780
Finance                        $ 208,725
Solid Waste                        $ 227,000
Buildings and Grounds                  $ 533,277
Garage                        $ 175,609
Police                        $ 1,940,395
Fire                           $ 718,400
Planning & Code Enforcement                  $ 324,636
Rescue                        $ 784,843
Streets                         $ 233,493
Parks and Recreation                     $ 454,938
Community Building                     $ 119,718
Tourism                        $ 231,199
Powell Bill                        $ 182,500
Total Expenditures                     $ 6,646,482
SECTION II. ELECTRIC FUND
A.   Anticipated Revenues. The following revenues are estimated to be available
in the Electric Fund for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2015, and ending
June 30, 2016:
Electricity Sales                     $ 7,200,000
Utility Sales Taxes                      $ 504,000
Underground Service Installations               $ 180,000
Service Charges                     $ 90,000
Other Revenues                     $  4,000
Total Revenues                     $ 7,978,000
B.   Expenditures. The following amounts are hereby appropriated in the
Electric Fund for expenses for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2015, and
ending June 30, 2016:
Salaries and Benefits                     $ 407,161
Purchase of Power                     $ 5,881,939
Utility Sales Taxes                     $ 504,000
Underground Service Installations               $ 186,900
Capital Outlay& Contract Services - Facilities            $ 921,600
Other Expenditures                     $  76,400
Total Expenditures                     $ 7,978,000
SECTION III. WATER AND SEWER FUND
A.   Anticipated Revenues. The following revenues are estimated to be available
in the Water and Sewer Fund for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2015, and
ending June 30, 2016:
Water and Sewer Sales                  $ 2,804,171
Water and Sewer Tap Fees                  $ 21,624
Sewer Impact Fees                     $ 370,000
Water Impact Fees                     $ 53,170
Fund Balance                     $  380,790
Total Revenues                     $ 3,629,755
B.   Expenditures. The following amounts are hereby appropriated in the Water
and Sewer Fund for expenses for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2015, and
ending June 30, 2016:
Salaries and Benefits                     $ 571,578
Water Purchases                     $ 639,764
Distribution/Collection Supplies               $ 174,500
Sewer Capacity Allocation                  $ 750,000
Contract Services - System Maintenance            $ 371,000
Capital Outlay – Equipment                  $ 37,600
Capital Outlay – Vehicles                  $ 103,250
Capital Outlay – Facilities                  $ 695,700
Debt Service                        $ 119,963
Other Expenditures                     $  166,400
Total Expenditures                     $ 3,629,755
SECTION IV. TAX RATE
There is hereby levied, for fiscal year 2015-2016, a tax at the rate of $0.2456
on each one hundred dollars ($100) of assessed valuation of property located
within the City of Southport for the purpose of raising revenue in the General
Fund.
SECTION V. BUDGET OFFICER AUTHORITY
The city manager (budget officer) is hereby authorized to transfer
appropriations within a fund and between funds under the following terms:
A.   He may transfer amounts between objects of expenditures (line items)
within a departmental appropriation.
B.   He may transfer amounts between appropriations within the same fund,
provided that a report of such transfers shall be made no later than the next
regular financial report to the Board of Aldermen. He may approve un-budgeted
inter-fund transfers, up to $5,000, provided that a report of such transfers
shall be made no later than the next regular financial report to the Board of
Aldermen.
C.   He may transfer and/or utilize appropriations contained in contingency
appropriations within a fund (except for contingency amounts within the
governing board appropriation) or in emergency fund appropriations.
D.   He may authorize temporary transfers of cash among funds as necessary to
meet cash flow needs.
E.   He may transfer funds from capital reserve funds, up to $20,000 per
purpose, to meet current needs for the purpose for which such funds are being
held in reserve, provided that a report of such transfers shall be made no
later than the next regular financial report to the Board of Aldermen.
All other transfers of funds between appropriations or budget funds shall be
accomplished by Board amendment of this ordinance.
SECTION VIII. CONTINUING AUTHORIZATION
Previously-adopted capital project budgets, grant project budgets, and special
reserve funds are hereby re-authorized, and revenues and appropriations made
for all such funds shall remain authorized on an ongoing basis until such
projects are completed and/or all funds are utilized. At the conclusion of such
capital projects or grant projects, any residual, unexpended local funds shall
be transferred to the general government or enterprise fund with which the
project is associated.
SECTION IX. BUDGET IMPLEMENTATION
This ordinance and the supporting budget document shall be the basis of the
financial plan for the City of Southport municipal government for the 2015-2016
fiscal year. The budget officer shall administer the budget and shall insure
the finance officer and department heads of the city are provided with
sufficient guidance to properly implement this plan. Copies of the budget
ordinance shall be furnished to the city manager and the finance officer for
their use and direction in the disbursement of funds and to the city clerk for
the official records of the city.
SECTION X. ADOPTION
This ordinance has been adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular
session on June 11, 2015, upon the motion of Alderman Powell and the second of
Alderman Poole, with a vote of  6  ayes and  0 noes, and shall be effective
July 1, 2015.
                        /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
Recess – 3:29 p.m.
The June 11, 2015 regular Board of Aldermen meeting was recessed to Tuesday,
June 16, 6:00 p.m. in the Aldermen Chambers, 201 E. Moore Street.
                        /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
JUNE 16, 2015
RECESSED SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN   RECESSED SESSION MINUTES
POLICE DEPARTMENT   JUNE 16, 2015
201 E. MOORE STREET SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor Robert D. Howard
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Nelson Adams, Todd Coring,
            Jim Powell, Buddy Barnes, Emily Humphreys
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk   
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Howard called the June 11 recessed meeting back to order at 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Howard pointed out that the purpose of the meeting was to consider three
(3) quotations for auditing services:
∙   Berry, Padgett & Chandler            $ 46,400 revised to $36,000
∙   S. Preston Douglas & Associates, LLP      $ 36,000   
∙   Thompson, Price, Scott, Adams & Co., P.A.      $ 23,950
Mayor Howard noted the sensitivity of the issue and emphasized the Board’s
ethical and fiduciary responsibility to the citizens of Southport. He noted
that the three firms were equally qualified and acceptable to the Local
Government Commission (LGC).
Alderman Adams reported that he and Alderman Powell had met with Menton Padgett
to discuss all aspects of past audits performed by Berry, Padgett & Chandler
and the additional work the firm had to accomplish which resulted in higher
fees. Alderman Adams provided Board members with a 55 item checklist of
financial reports, schedules and other records that would need to be provided
to Berry, Padgett & Chandler in a timely manner in order to complete the audit
for a revised cost of not to exceed $36,000. Alderman Adams emphasized the
quality of work provided by Berry, Padgett & Chandler, pointing out that the
firm has been doing the city’s audits since 1973 and has saved the city a lot
of headaches. He and Alderman Powell stated their opinions that the City’s
audit should be performed by the local firm.
Alderman Barnes stated his respect for Berry, Padgett & Chandler. He stated it
is his responsibility to the tax paying citizens to get the best price for
services and he could not justify spending over $10,000 more for the same work,
comparing the services quoted by all three firms as “apples to apples.”
Alderman Poole stated her opinion that changing firms and going in a different
direction could be a good thing for the city.
Alderman Coring pointed out that Berry, Padgett & Chandler have been loyal to
Southport, are very familiar with the city and he is nervous bringing in a new
firm that would not know the city and how it operates.
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Adams to retain Berry, Padgett &
Chandler for auditing services at a cost not to exceed $36,000.
Aye:   Aldermen Powell, Adams, Coring, Humphreys
Nay:   Aldermen Poole, Barnes
Motion Carried 4-2
City Manager McDuffie updated the Board that the new public restrooms on East
Nash Street were nearing completion and would be open for the 4 th of July
Festival.
City Manager McDuffie announced that the City would have a float in the N.C. 4
th of July Festival parade. He stated the float will promote Southport as
“America’s Happiest Seaside Town” and city employees and their families will be
invited to ride.
City Manager McDuffie advised the Board that the Southport Personnel Policy
states; “If a holiday, other than Christmas falls on a Saturday or Sunday, the
following Monday will be observed as a holiday.” He pointed out that July 4 th
falls on a Saturday and the City has traditionally observed the State holiday
schedule which this year is observing the 4 th on the preceding Friday. He
recommended amending the Policy and Alderman Poole concurred.
Responding to a concern raised by Alderman Powell to traffic exiting Southport
after the 4th of July fireworks display, Alderman Coring indicated a public
announcement would be made detailing the traffic patterns for the event.   
City Manager McDuffie advised the Board that they would need to meet before
June 30 to consider end-of-year budget amendments.
Adjournment- 6:35 p.m.
Alderman Coring moved to adjourn the meeting, second by Alderman Poole.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:   /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
JUNE 24, 2015
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN   SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
FIRE HEADQUARTERS   JUNE 24, 2015
1011 N. HOWE STREET SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor Robert D. Howard
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Nelson Adams, Todd Coring,
            Jim Powell, Buddy Barnes, Emily Humphreys
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk   
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
   Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
   Alderman Humphreys welcomed everyone and gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Humphreys led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Announcements
   There were no announcements.
E)   ETHICS STATEMENT: 
Mayor Howard stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any conflict of
interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect to matters on
the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
Mayor Howard pointed out that the purpose of the meeting was to consider three
(3) items:
1.   FY 2014-2015 End-of-Year Budget Amendment #14
2.   Amendment to Code of Ordinances, Chapter 10, Article III, Peddlers,
Itinerant Merchants and Vendors
3.   Resolution Recognizing Exception to Chapter 143, Article VIII, Public
Contracts, for Purchase Pursuant to G.S. 143-129(e)(6)
F)   Approval of Agenda
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Adams to remove Item 2 from the
agenda and place on the July 9, 2015 regular meeting agenda.
Discussion
Mayor Howard noted there was a sense of urgency to addressing the Ordinance,
pointing out that the Ordinance currently permits anybody setting up anywhere
on public property and competing with the local merchants.
Alderman Poole questioned if a moratorium should be placed until the Board
addresses the issue.
Mayor Howard indicated that an order he issued, that no peddlers could block
traffic, would remain in effect if not opposed by the Board. There was no
objection to the order.
Alderman Humphreys stated that through her research into the issue she had
found that Wilmington and Wrightsville Beach do not allow any peddlers unless
they have a brick and mortar building.
Unanimous vote to remove Item 2 from the agenda and place it on the July 9,
2015 agenda. Motion Carried.
Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to accept the agenda as
amended. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
1.   Consideration of FY 2014-2015 End-of-Year Budget Amendment #14
City Manager McDuffie explained that the amendment was for end-of-year budget
clean up and there were two (2) major issues being addressed in the amendment:
1.   The increase in electrical sales tax from 3 percent to 7 percent was not
included when the budget was originally adopted;
2.    Several employees’ salaries are coming out of multiple departments and
the percentages in the original budget were not the same as in the payroll
system.
Additionally, he explained that the Fire Department had collected more revenue
than originally forecast.
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to adopt Budget Amendment
#14. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Budget Amendment #14
Fiscal Year 2014-2015
WHEREAS the City of Southport has received and desires to amend the budget for
additional Revenues received and appropriate to the following departments;
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2014-2015 shall be
amended as follows:
General Fund
Revenues                   Previous     Actual       Increase       Amended
                           Budget                    Revenues       Budget
10-3100-1100   Ad Valorem  1,613,000.00 1,694,965.77 72,028.00      1,685,028.00
               Taxes - CY
               Motor
10-3100-1200   Vehicle     45,700.00    58,411.60    12,000.00      57,700.00
               Taxes
               Utility
10-3324-0000   Franchise   303,500.00   350,136.26   30,000.00      333,500.00
               Tax
               Fire
10-3434-0100   District    644,000.00   682,046.49   38,000.00      682,000.00
               Fees
               Refuse
10-3500-0000   Collection  192,200.00   209,881.86   18,000.00      210,200.00
               Fees
               Totals                                170,028.00
Appropriations             Previous     Actual       Increase       Amended
by Department              Budget                    appropriations Budget
                          180,300.00   165,472.15   19,508.00      199,808.00
Finance
Solid Waste                186,200.00   201,646.70   35,400.00      221,600.00
Buildings & Grounds        450,141.00   383,143.80   29,300.00      479,441.00
Garage                     175,100.00   176,351.38   10,020.00      185,120.00
Police                     961,600.00   948,594.00   16,400.00      978,000.00
Fire                       689,400.00   657,315.76   38,000.00      727,400.00
Streets                    214,299.00   218,920.87   15,300.00      229,599.00
Tourism                    200,595.00   202,130.16   6,100.00       206,695.00
               Totals                                170,028.00
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, June 24, 2015.
 
                        /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor      
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk   
2.   Consideration of Amendment to Code of Ordinances, Chapter 10, Article III,
Peddlers, Itinerant Merchants and Vendors
Item removed from agenda.
3.   Consideration of Resolution Recognizing Exception to Chapter 143, Article
VIII, Public Contracts, for Purchase Pursuant to G.S. 143-129(e)(6)
Mayor Howard explained that in order to upgrade electric meters and the
substation, the city would need to purchase equipment and apparatus compatible
with Brunswick Electric Membership Corps’ (BEMC) system. He stated that doing
so would save a tremendous amount of money on the meters and would avert any
difficulties using a different system. He indicated that after a meeting with
the city manager, city attorney and BEMC, it was determined that State Statute
G.S. 143-129(e)(6) provides for an exception to the bidding requirements when
compatibility is the overriding consideration.
Responding to a question from Alderman Powell, City Manager McDuffie stated
that BEMC will sell the meters to the city at a cost of $10 each, saving $117
per meter, nearly $370,000 for 2,450 meters. He added that replacement of the
meters will be included at no additional charge to the maintenance and
operation portion of the current contract with BEMC.
RESOLUTION RECOGNIZING EXCEPTION TO CHAPTER 143, ARTICLE VIII, PUBLIC
CONTRACTS, FOR PURCHASE PURSUANT TO G.S. 143-129(e)(6)
                                                               WITNESSETH:
THAT WHEREAS, the City of Southport currently has an Operation and Maintenance
Contract with Brunswick Electric Membership Corporation for operation and
maintenance of its’ electric system; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen has determined that it is in the best
interests of the City to now contract with Brunswick Electric Membership
Corporation for BEMC to read its’ electric meters; and
   WHEREAS, in order to do so, it is necessary for the City to purchase certain
apparatus and equipment to enable BEMC to provide said service; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary for said apparatus and equipment to be compatible
with the BEMC system and equipment; and
   WHEREAS, standardization and compatibility is the overriding consideration
in the purchase of the necessary apparatus and equipment;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport as follows:
(1)   That the Board hereby determines that standardization and compatibility
with the existing BEMC system is the overriding consideration in the purchase
of the necessary apparatus and equipment to enable BEMC to provide meter
reading services to the City.
(2)   That G. S. 143-129 (e)(6) provides an exception to the bidding
requirements of Chapter 143, Article 8, of the General Statutes when
standardization or compatibility is the overriding consideration in the
purchase of apparatus and equipment.
(3)   That in order to assure said compatibility it is necessary for the City
to purchase said apparatus and equipment directly from BEMC.
(4)   That the purchase of said apparatus and equipment directly from BEMC is
hereby approved.
       This the 24th day of June, 2015.
               CITY OF SOUTHPORT
               BY: /s/ Robert Howard, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
Board Comments
City Manager McDuffie reported that the new concrete street light poles would
be delivered June 25 and would be stored at the former wastewater treatment
plant site.
Alderman Powell reported he had spoken with the contract for the public
restrooms and a final inspection is expected by July 1. He noted that 21 rain
days had delayed the project.
Alderman Barnes asked if the Beautification Committee could put in landscape
plantings, likely in September. Mayor Howard directed a design and proposal be
submitted to the Board for consideration.
Alderman Barnes announced that the $30,000 goal for purchase of sailboat
Christmas wreaths had nearly been met.
Alderman Barnes announced that N.C. House Bill 97 will add a new tax to all
boaters.
Mayor Howard asked Jason Tyson, State Port Pilot reporter, to explain the
proposed New Inlet Dam project currently before the state legislature. Ms.
Tyson stated that Senate Bill 160, submitted by Representative Michael Lee,
proposes to remove the rock dam walls installed in 1870 just south of Fort
Fisher. The walls have created their own ecosystem and it is uncertain why
removing the walls is being considered. Mr. Tyson said that Bald Head Island
had commissioned a study by Mr. Erik Olsen, engineer, which shows the
ramifications for Southport would be severe. Bald Head Island officials have
asked the Southport Board of Aldermen to consideration a resolution opposing
the project.
Mayor Howard requested comments from the Board.
Alderman Poole indicated she had received several calls about the project, she
had read the engineering report and feels a resolution opposing it would be
appropriate. Alderman Barnes agreed.
Alderman Adams stated he was not prepared to support a resolution until he
would review the engineering study. Alderman Powell noted he had not yet read
the report.
Further consideration of the issue to be placed on the July 9 regular meeting
agenda.
Mayor Howard pointed out that a good deal of discussion has been taking place
about a tour train recently approved by the Tourism Commission. He directed the
Board to be prepared to discuss the Tourism Commission Ordinance at their July
regular meeting. He directed staff to provide a copy of the Ordinance to each
member.
Alderman Adams extended an invitation to a 7:00 p.m. vigil at Mount Carmel AME
Church in support of the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in
Charleston, South Carolina after a tragic shooting incident.
Adjournment- 6:35 p.m.
Alderman Coring moved to adjourn the meeting, second by Alderman Powell.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
                     /s/  Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:   /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
JULY 9, 2015
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING JULY 9, 2015
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor Robert D. Howard
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Buddy Barnes,
            Todd Coring, Emily Humphreys
ABSENT:         Aldermen Jim Powell, Nelson Adams
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
   Jerry Dove, Police Chief
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
   Cindy Brochure, Tourism Director
   Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   John Allen, Community Development Specialist
A)   Call to Order - 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Poole welcomed everyone and gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Poole led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Public Comment
   Mr. Harley Lemons, 6228 Navigator Way, and member of the Lions Club, stated
his appreciation to the 4th of July Committee, Chamber of Commerce, City of
Southport, citizens, merchants and all those involved in the 4th of July
Festival.
   Mr. Edward Quinn, 114 N. Caswell Avenue, presented a drawing depicting
parking and for cars traveling south on Caswell Avenue line of sight at the
Moore Street and Caswell Avenue intersection. He spoke about the speed of
vehicles, he has witnessed, traveling on W. Moore Street which is posted 20mph.
He requested the Board reconsider making the intersection a 4-way stop for the
safety of drivers and pedestrians.
   Ms. Karen Mosteller, 310 N. Atlantic Avenue, read comments pertaining to the
proposed legislative bill to remove the rocks known as the New Inlet Dam at
Zeke's Island:
   As a concerned citizen, I'm speaking to you this evening about the proposed
legislation regarding the removal of rocks known as the New Inlet Dam at Zeke's
Island. And please forgive me if I repeat information that you are already
aware of.
   This Bill was originally introduced as N.C. Legislative proposal (SB160) and
when it did not receive any traction the Bill was added to the proposed budget
as a line item within Budget Bill 97.
   The stated purpose in the Bill is to remove the historical New Inlet Dam's
Southern Component in order to reestablish the natural hydrodynamic flow of
water between the Cape Fear River and the Atlantic Ocean that occurred prior to
emplacement of the dam, much of which was built circa 1879.
   The physical and environmental consequences of reintroducing a second tidal
inlet to the Cape Fear River would be significant.
   Any inlet related erosion - after inlet opening - could threaten portions of
the historical Ft. Fisher complex.
   Not accounting for future erosion, at the onset of removing the dam…the
boundary of Zeke's Island Reserve would be shifted 200 feet eastward loosing
critical habitat. According to the NC Department of Environmental and Natural
Resources, Zeke's Island is one of the three original National Estuarine
Research Reserve components dedicated by the National Oceanic Atmospheric
Administration and the Division of Coastal Management in 1985.
   And the unusual characteristics of the site have created a variety of
habitats, including tidal flats, salt marshes, shrub thicket, maritime forest,
sand dunes, ocean beach, and the hard surface of the rocks. Fish, shrimp,
crabs, clams, and oysters use the estuary as a nursery ground and again, the NC
Department of Environmental and Natural Resources has identified the expanse of
intertidal flats in the Zeke's Island vicinity as the single most important
shorebird habitat in southeastern North Carolina.
   The entire geomorphology of the entrance to the Cape Fear River as it
currently exists - with its congressionally authorized and routinely maintained
federal navigation channel, is dependent upon a no-flow condition at New Inlet.
Prior to its closure, New Islet was a relatively robust flowing tidal inlet.
With dam removal, the driving forces which influence tidal inlet creation and
stability would be expected again to foster a large flowing inlet.
   The re-opening of New Inlet would immediately service to decrease tidal flow
through the Cape Fear River mouth. Subsequently, shoal configurations would be
subject to significant change. The latter would substantially influence
littoral processes and sediment transport on both Oak Island and Bald Head
Island. Federal navigation channel shoaling would be expected to increase
significantly thereby requiring more frequent and larger dredging operations.
   According to the bill, the reason for removing the rocks would be "for eco-
system restoration and protection of navigational safely."
   NC State Senator Lee, one of the bill's primary sponsors said that,
"removing the Rocks would simply help restore the areas equilibrium." Mr. Lee
further stated that, "The general idea is that they don't need to be there, so
let's see if we can get them removed."
   Clearly Senator Lee's observations are not based on science. You have the
science in the White Paper written by Coastal Engineer, Eric Olsen. These
findings are echoed by Spencer Rogers, a coastal engineering expert with NC Sea
Grant and other Coastal Engineers.
   The White Paper report sheds light on more resulting changes and risks than
I have stated here tonight.
   I stand before you, asking you to please consider passing a Resolution
against the proposed legislation in House Bill 97, Section 14.6, requesting the
removal of the rocks at Zeke's Island, New Inlet Dam.
   Thank you for your thoughtful consideration of this issue and thank you for
changing the meeting time to 6:00 in the evening. The last time I attended an
Aldermen meeting, I had to take a half day off from work…..so I am looking
forward to being able to attend the meetings. Thank you.
   Ms. Roberta Dosher, 210 W. Moore Street, reiterated her plea of November 14,
2014 to improve safety at the W. Moore Street and Caswell Avenue intersection
via a 4-way stop, overhead flasher, parking reconfiguration or traffic camera
for issuance of speeding citations. She emphasized that the visibility is so
bad for a vehicle traveling south on Caswell Avenue that it must get into the
middle of Moore Street to see if it is clear to proceed.
   Mr. Bill Van, 506 W. St. George Street, and President of the Cape Fear
Cruisers Classic Car Club asked permission to hold the 2015 Classic Cars &
Rock-n-Roll weekend October 9 & 10. He anticipated more vendors than the 2014
event and asked if they could be placed closer to the venue at the end of S.
Howe Street. He stated that a pancake breakfast at the fire station had been
added to the event which includes multiple car clubs participating, a drive-in
movie and old fashioned street dance.
   Mr. Bob Cowan, 106 S. Lord Street, stated his support for a 4-way stop at
the W. Moore Street and S. Caswell Avenue intersection.
   Ms. Verilyn McKee, 114 S. Davis Street, stated her opinion that the
placement of port-a-johns on Davis Street during the 4th of July Festival is
disrespectful to the grounds of Fort Johnston.
   Mayor Howard recognized Senator Bill Rabon in attendance. Senator Rabon
stated he had spoken with staff at the North Carolina Department of
Transportation (NCDOT) and DOT would send a traffic safety engineer to study
the Moore Street/Caswell Avenue area if the city so desired.
E)   Approval of Agenda    
   Mayor Howard requested additions to the agenda: consideration of sign for
Fort Johnston Garrison, Resolution in opposition to a proposal to remove the
New Inlet Dam, and a request from Cape Fear Classic Cars.
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to approve the agenda as
amended. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
F)   Announcements
   Mayor Howard announced that Southport had earned recognition as a 2014 Tree
City from the Arbor Day Foundation.
   Mayor Howard announced that he, Aldermen Poole and Coring, the City Manager
and Tourism Director, Cindy Brochure had attended the July 6 Brunswick County
Commissioners meeting at which Southport was honored by the Commissioners for
being named The Happiest Seaside Town in America.
   Alderman Poole read into the record the Proclamation presented to Southport
by the Brunswick County Commissioners:
County of Brunswick
Office of the County Commissioners
Proclamation In Honor of Southport's Being Named the Happiest Seaside Town in
America
   WHEREAS, Coastal Living Magazine set out to declare the happiest seaside
town in America, considering coastal towns from across the country and
bordering the Atlantic Ocean, the Pacific Ocean and the Gulf of Mexico; and
   WHEREAS, after much consideration and public input, Coastal Living Magazine
selected Southport as the happiest seaside town in America, coming in ahead of
close contenders like Tybee Island Georgia and Delray Beach Florida; and
   WHEREAS, in granting Southport such recognition, Coastal Living Magazine
noted Southport's beauty, charm, and historic and picturesque settings, as well
as its history as a film location and as host of the annual North Carolina 4th
of July Festival; and
   WHEREAS, Brunswick County's residents and visitors have long known of the
charm, friendliness and welcoming nature of Southport; and
   WHEREAS, Coastal Living Magazine's declaring Southport the happiest seaside
town in America brings national attention to these same attributes.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT PROCLAIMED that the Brunswick County Board of
Commissioners does congratulate the city of Southport on being named the
Happiest Seaside Town in America.
This the 6th day of July, 2015.
                     /s/ Scott Phillips, Chairman
                   Brunswick County Commissioners
Attest: /s/ Marjorie Stephenson, NCCCC
Clerk to the Board
G)   ETHICS STATEMENT:
   Mayor Howard stated, "If any member of the Board knows of any conflict of
interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect to matters on
the agenda, to please so state it at this time."
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to approve the consent
agenda. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
1.    Minutes for May 27 Budget Workshop - approved
Minutes for June 4 Public Hearing - approved
Minutes for June 11 Regular Meeting - approved
Minutes for June 16 Recessed Meeting - approved
   Minutes for June 24 Special meeting - approved   
2.    4th of July Resolutions of Appreciation - approved
Alderman Coring read into the record, the Resolution of Appreciation to the
N.C. 4th of July Festival Board of Directors, Committees and Volunteers:
RESOLUTION OF APPRECIATION
WHEREAS, for over 200 years the City of Southport has celebrated our nation's
independence; and
WHEREAS, the City of Southport is the official Home of the NC 4th of July
Festival; and
WHEREAS, the North Carolina 4th of July Festival was incorporated in 1972 and
the patriotic spirit is alive and well, and has established the City of
Southport as one of the most patriotic towns in the State of North Carolina;
and
WHEREAS, the 4th of July festival draws an estimated 40,000 to 50,000 people to
Southport and its surrounding communities; and
WHEREAS, the festival highlights over 150 arts and craft vendors, food vendors,
a parade, freedom run, veteran's recognition, naturalization ceremony, children
games, firefighter's competition, flag retirement ceremony, fireworks and more;
and
WHEREAS, the N.C. 4th of July Festival could not be realized without the
Festival Board of Directors, Committees and hundreds of volunteers that work
year round to promote and organize this event.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the City of Southport recognizes and thanks
each and every individual who tirelessly gave of their time and energy to put
on the 4th of July Festival.
ADOPTED this the 9th day of July 2015.
                        /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
/s/ Michele Windham, Clerk                        
Alderman Barnes read into the record, the Resolution of Appreciation to City
Departments involved in the N.C. 4th of July Festival:
RESOLUTION OF APPRECIATION
WHEREAS, for over 200 years the City of Southport has celebrated our nation's
independence; and
WHEREAS, the City of Southport is the official Home of the NC 4th of July
Festival; and
WHEREAS, the 4th of July festival draws an estimated 40,000 to 50,000 people to
Southport and its surrounding communities; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen would like to acknowledge city staff in the
Public Works, Parks & Recreation and Tourism Departments for an exceptional
job; and
WHEREAS, the City was manicured, well-groomed and in top shape for the
festivities; and
WHEREAS, the many events planned were delightful for visitors and residents
alike; and
WHEREAS, by July 5th, through the superb clean-up efforts, one would not have
known there had been such an enormous event the days before; and
WHEREAS, the N.C. 4th of July Festival could not be realized without the
Festival Board of Directors, Committees, hundreds of volunteers and dedicated
hard work of city staff that strive year round to promote and organize this
event.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Southport Board of Aldermen recognize
and thank each employee who tirelessly gave of their time and energy to make
the NC 4th of July Festival a memorable occasion.
ADOPTED this the 9th day of July 2015.
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
/s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
Alderman Poole read into the record, the Resolution of Appreciation to
Emergency Services Personnel involved in the N.C. 4th of July Festival:
RESOLUTION OF APPRECIATION
WHEREAS, for over 200 years the City of Southport has celebrated our nation's
independence; and
WHEREAS, since 1972, the City of Southport has been the official Home of the NC
4th of July Festival; and
WHEREAS, the 4th of July Festival draws an estimated 40,000 to 50,000 people to
Southport and its surrounding communities; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen would like to commemorate all of Southport's
emergency services personnel on their exemplary efforts to safeguard festival
visitors; and
WHEREAS, the N.C. 4th of July Festival could not be realized without the
Southport Police Department, Fire Department and Rescue Squad that work year
round to help organize, direct and coordinate, this outstanding event.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Southport Board of Aldermen recognize
and thank the Southport Police Department, Rescue Squad and Fire Department
members who endlessly gave of their time and energy to provide any assistance
needed during the 4th of July Festival.
ADOPTED this the 9th day of July 2015.
                        /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
/s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
RECESS - 6:39 p.m.
RECONVENE - 6:42 p.m.
AGENDA
3.   Beautification Committee Update
Ms. Shirley Snyder, Chair of the Beautification Committee, provided an update
on several Committee projects. She discussed the monthly clean-up at Waterfront
Park, Kingsley Park, Franklin Square Park, Caviness Park, and Moore Street
Roundabout. She pointed out that the irrigation system at the roundabout was
not working properly. She stated the Committee had assisted the Historical
Society with clean-up of Smithville Burying Grounds. She reported the Bring
Back Our Boats Christmas Wreath project was close to reaching its goal of
$30,000 for 60 wreaths.
4.   Beautification Committee Appointments
Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Poole to re-appoint Shirley Snyder
and Tom Lombardi and appoint Mary Friend, Anne Carey and Beth Kernodle to the
Beautification Committee. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
5.   Zoning Board of Adjustment Appointments
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to appoint Richard Sloan to
a full city seat on the Zoning Board of Adjustment. Unanimous vote; motion
carried.
6.   Transportation Committee Recommendation
Mr. John Allen explained that the Traffic & Transportation Committee had met
and recommended to the Board of Aldermen that I Am Street be designated as a
one way street between Moore & Bay Streets.
Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Poole to adopt the Ordinance
changing a portion of I Am Street to one way.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
AN ORDINANCE CHANGING A PORTION OF I AM STREET TO ONE WAY
   THAT WHEREAS, Section 17-68 of the City of Southport Code of Ordinances
gives the City the authority to designate one way streets; and
   WHEREAS, the Transportation Committee has determined that having two way
traffic on the portion of I Am Street between Moore and Bay Streets is a public
safety hazard; and
   WHEREAS, the Transportation Committee has recommended to the Board of
Aldermen that the portion of I Am Street between Moore and Bay Streets be
designated a one way street, from north to south.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that the
portion of I Am Street between Moore and Bay Streets is designated a one way
street, from north to south.
This, the 9th day of July, 2015.         City of Southport
                        BY: /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
7.   Adoption of Resolution Requesting NCDOT Incur the Cost of Placing Electric
Power Lines Underground in the Howe Street/Highway 211 Widening Project Area
City Manager McDuffie explained that NCDOT will be widening Howe Street/
Southport-Supply Road/Hwy NC 211to four (4) lanes from 12th Street to Hwy NC
17. He pointed out that the electric poles will have to be relocated and it is
the policy of Southport to place electric lines underground whenever lines are
moved. He stated that questions had been raised whether Southport or NCDOT
would be responsible for the estimated $600,000 cost to move the lines. He
noted that Southport has been in the business of providing electrical power
since 1917 which predates NCDOT assuming maintenance of the county roads in
1932. Based on the prior right of the City, City Manager McDuffie stated it is
staff's belief that NCDOT should assume the cost of relocating the electric
lines underground in the Howe Street/Highway 211 widening project.
Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Poole to adopt the Resolution
Requesting Assistance from the North Carolina Department of Transportation. By
an uplift of hands, unanimous vote; motion carried.
The clerk read the resolution into the record.
CITY OF SOUTHPORT
RESOLUTION REQUESTING ASSISTANCE FROM THE NORTH CAROLINA DEPARTMENT OF
TRANSPORTATION
   THAT WHEREAS, the North Carolina Department of Transportation (DOT) intends
to widen Howe Street/Highway 211 in the City of Southport (Southport); and
   WHEREAS, Southport has electric power lines and poles within the right of
way of Howe Street/Highway 211 which must be moved to accommodate the widening
project; and
   WHEREAS, it is currently the policy of Southport to place electric power
lines underground whenever such lines are moved; and
   WHEREAS, the estimated cost of placing the electric power lines in the
project area underground is $600,000, the cost of which would be an
unreasonable burden on Southport; and
   WHEREAS, Southport has been in the business of providing electrical power to
its' residents and customers since 1917; and
   WHEREAS, DOT took over the maintenance of county roads in 1932, 15 years
after Southport began providing electric power; and
   WHEREAS, it is logical and reasonable to assume that Southport's electric
power poles and power lines pre-existed DOT's takeover of county road
maintenance, including Howe Street/Hwy 211; and
   WHEREAS, if Southport's power poles pre-existed DOT's takeover of the
maintenance of county roads then it should be the responsibility of DOT to bear
the cost of placing the power lines underground;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that a formal
request is hereby made of DOT to pay the cost of relocating the electric power
lines in the Howe Street/Highway 211 widening project underground.
This, the 9th day of July, 2015.   
City of Southport
                     BY: /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
8.   Consideration of Amending Code of Ordinances Chapter 10, Article III,
Peddlers, Itinerant Merchants and Vendors
Attorney Isenberg explained the proposed provisions, as requested by the Board,
to Chapter 10, Article III of the Southport City Code, to regulate peddlers and
itinerant merchants. He explained that a peddler is someone that moves around
with a push cart, wagon or vehicle and it is common practice to limit the time
a peddler can stay in one location to thirty (30) minutes.
Alderman Barnes talked about the growing trend of food trucks. He stated his
opinion that the proposed amendments do not do enough to protect the local
merchants and restaurants.
Alderman Poole noted that some municipalities limit peddlers and itinerant
merchants to those that have a brick and mortar business.
Attorney Isenberg pointed out that federal law allows regulating peddling but
not prohibiting it. He added that some communities differentiate between
regular peddling and food peddling.
Alderman Coring suggested taking more time to research the issue.
Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Humphreys to accept the amendments
to the ordinance with the changes discussed.
Mayor Howard stated that a majority vote of the whole board (4) would be
required to amend an ordinance.
Ayes:   Aldermen Barnes, Humphreys, Poole
Nay: Alderman Coring
Motion Failed
Board consensus that further consideration of the issue to be included in the
August Board agenda.
Mayor Howard announced that staff had, due to safety concerns, directed an ice
cream vendor to set up in the Waterfront Park parking lot. Board consensus for
the ice cream vendor to remain at the park location until resolution of the
issue.
9.   Consideration of Ordinance Chapter 10, Article VII, For-Hire Tours of the
Southport City Code
Alderman Humphreys requested addition of a provision that any tour be in
keeping with the historic nature of the community.
Alderman Poole asked that the Board of Aldermen approve or disapprove
applications in order for an operation to be vetted by the public.
Attorney Isenberg to draft an ordinance amendment for the Board August session.
10.   Tax Releases
Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Poole to accept the tax releases.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Release Date:      09/03/14
   Taxpayer Name:      Dr. Robert Poe
   Account Number:      80028005
   Parcel ID:      237DE025
   Amount Released:   91.67
   Value Released:      31,102
   Release Reason:      Clerical Error/DE Error
   Taxpayer Name:      Pharma Ancillary Consultants
   Account Number:      80026170
   Parcel ID:      221MA038
   Amount Released:   3.18
   Value Released:      1,177
   Release Reason:      Duplicate Listing
   Taxpayer Name:      George R. Everhart, III
   Account Number:      80020299
   Parcel ID:      Null
   Amount Released:   13.51
   Value Released:      55,027
   Release Reason:      Clerical Error/DE Error
   Taxpayer Name:      City of Southport
   Account Number:      20090270
   Parcel ID:      237DC021
   Amount Released:   3,521.75
   Value Released:      1,433,938
   Release Reason:      Exempt
   Release Date:      09/15/14
   Taxpayer Name:      Martin Heller
   Account Number:      80005414
   Parcel ID:      221BA021
   Amount Released:   168.46
   Value Released:      68,590
   Release Reason:      Not Within City Limits
   Release Date:      11/07/14
   Taxpayer Name:      Colleen Ann Anderson
   Account Number:      80007453
   Parcel ID:      
   Amount Released:   16.79
   Value Released:      6,835
   Release Reason:      Did Not Own January 1
   Total Amount Released:   $3,815.36
   Total Value Released:   1,596,669
11.   Consideration of Resolution in Opposition to Removal of New Inlet Dam
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to adopt the Resolution
opposing the removal of New Inlet Dam.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
A RESOLUTION EXPRESSING THE SOUTHPORT BOARD OF ALDERMENS'
OPPOSITION OF THE NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL ASSEMBLY'S PROPOSAL
TO REMOVE THE HISTORICAL NEW INLET DAM SO AS TO ALLOW FOR OR
ENCOURAGE THE REOPENING OF NEW INLET WHICH HAS BEEN CLOSED SINCE 1879
   WHEREAS, the City of Southport is committed to recognizing and being a sound
steward of the unique coastal environment, including estuaries, marshes,
barrier islands and pristine beaches on and around Southport; and
   WHEREAS, the City of Southport Aldermen recognize that the City of Southport
and her sister coastal municipalities' economic survival solely depends on the
sustainability of the existing environment and this proposed legislation calls
for a strong response by Southport and surrounding coastal communities,
environmental conservation organizations, and all interested persons and
businesses to stand firmly in opposition to this serious economic and
environmental threat; and
   WHEREAS, the City of Southport Aldermen understands that, based on the
analysis (included in this document) of Erik Olsen, P.E., if the Southern half
of New Inlet Dam is removed, serious negative consequences will occur. Mr.
Olsen has decades of experience with coastal North Carolina and these issues
and his opinions are shared by other coastal engineers that have reviewed this
issue.
   WHEREAS, the negative effects may include but are not limited to major
alterations to the Cape Fear River's salinity regime, essential fish habitat
and entire eco-system-as they exist today- would be inevitable with the
introduction of a second tidal inlet. Additionally, hydraulic condition changes
would substantially influence littoral processes and sediment transport on both
Oak Island and Bald Head Island jeopardizing the barrier island protection they
provide Southport; and
   WHEREAS, changes in tidal flows through the mouth of the Cape Fear River
could create alterations within the AIWW and in the vicinity of Southport,
creating associated water quality changes because of reductions in water
exchange and in particular within the canalized (manmade) segment of the
Intracoastal Waterway; and
   WHEREAS, the reintroduction of a major inlet connecting the Cape Fear River
with the Atlantic Ocean, would allow increased flooding due to storm surges
associated with major storm events and result in possible flood insurance
elevations at Southport and other adjacent communities causing higher flooding
risks and insurance rates for existing habitable structures built to today's
100-year storm elevations, as established by FEMA; and
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, the City of Southport Aldermen are opposed
to SECTION 14.6(h) OF THE CURRENT VERSION OF HOUSE BILL 97 which proposes to
remove the historical New Inlet Dam so as to allow for or encourage the
reopening of new inlet which has been closed since 1879; and
   BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED the City of Southport Aldermen stand in solidarity
with our regional coastal communities who may suffer long-term social, economic
and environmental impacts of removing the New Inlet Dam.
   BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED the City of Southport Aldermen call upon all North
Carolina municipal and county governing bodies of North Carolina to pass
similar resolutions to this one and that the League of Municipalities join in
this effort.
   BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED the City of Southport Aldermen urge Governor McCrory
and the entire North Carolina General Assembly to oppose policies that risk the
health, safety and sound environmental stewardship of North Carolina's
coastline whose natural beauty attracts a proven tourism-driven economy.
On Behalf of the City of Southport Aldermen:         July 9, 2015
/s/ Robert D. Howard
                            City of Southport Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
12.   Moore Street & Caswell Avenue
City Manager McDuffie reported that Tidewater Surveying had been contracted to
do a survey of Moore Street to determine if there is enough city right-of-way
to deepen the parking spaces.
By Board consensus, the city manager was directed to request an engineer safety
study of the Moore Street & Caswell Avenue area from NCDOT.
13.   Request from Cape Fear Classic Cars Club
City Manager McDuffie reported that the event organizers would like to set up
vendors in the Waterfront Park/Whittlers Bench parking lot.
Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Poole to grant the same authority
as last year and any additional request be presented to the Board of Aldermen
at their August meeting.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
14.   Fort Johnston Garrison Sign
Mayor Howard pointed out that the Aldermen had adopted a policy that all city
buildings display a city seal and Fort Johnston did not have a seal on it.
City Manager McDuffie reported that a sign for Fort Johnston had been designed,
approved by State Historic Preservation Office (SHIPO) and was ready to be hung
over the main entrance. He stated the depiction of a cannon could be changed to
a city seal.
Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Poole to put up the Fort Johnston
sign and install a city seal on the building.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
15.   Committee Resignations
The Board accepted the resignation of Ms. Tish Hatem from the Planning Board
and the resignation of Mr. Joe Pat Hatem from the Board of Adjustment.
Board Comments
At the request of Alderman Barnes, City Manager McDuffie reminded the public
that Moore and Howe Streets would be paved beginning the Tuesday after Labor
Day and the work would be performed at night.
Alderman Humphreys thanked the City and Alderman Powell for getting the new
public restrooms open in time for the 4th of July Festival.
Mayor Howard noted that having the port-a-toilets on Davis Street was not an
ideal location but they needed to be placed where the crowds are. He suggested
the 4th of July Committee look at other possible locations.
Adjournment - 7:35 p.m.
Alderman Poole moved to adjourn the meeting, second by Alderman Barnes.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
                        /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
AUGUST 13, 2015
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN   REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
201 E. MOORE STREET AUGUST 13, 2015
                   SOUTHPORT, N.C.
PRESENT:         Mayor Robert D. Howard
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Buddy Barnes, Nelson Adams
            Jim Powell, Emily Humphreys
ABSENT:         Alderman Todd Coring
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
   Gary Smith, Interim Police Chief
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   John Allen, Community Development Specialist
   Ellie Pittenger, Electrical Superintendent
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m. He announced that the
meeting would be recessed at 6:55 in order to attend a reception for retiring
Police Chief Jerry Dove.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Adams welcomed everyone and Jerry Dove gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Adams led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Public Comment
   Former Mayor, Ms. Sandy Spencer, 410 W. Brunswick Street, expressed her
personal thanks and appreciation to Jerry Dove for his many years of dedicated
service.
   Mr. Mike Haase, of Mike’s Garage Band, announced a fund raiser for Jevanie
Green, the young man hit by a car during the 4th of July Festival. Mr. Haase
stated the event would be held Friday, August 28, 4:00 – 8:00 p.m. on the
Garrison Lawn.
   Mr. Robert Creech, 426 W. Brunswick Street, spoke in opposition to a Traffic
& Transportation Committee recommendation to make Yacht Basin Drive one-way
between Bay and Moore Streets. He talked about the impact to businesses and
confusion for visitors navigating the area.
   Ms. Karen Mosteller, 310 N. Atlantic Avenue, read comments pertaining to the
proposed resolution opposing seismic surveying and oil and gas exploration and
drilling offshore the coast of North Carolina.
My name is Karen Mosteller and I am so very proud to live in Southport, North
Carolina.
In 2014, the Aldermen of the City of Southport passed a resolution in
opposition to the use of seismic airguns in our ocean, our Aldermen, stood up
for our community…stood up for a fundamental belief in our way of life, belief
in our responsibility as sound stewards of our unique coastal environment
…honoring our connection to the environment sitting here at the mouth of the
Cape Fear…
This evening our Aldermen are considering another resolution. This resolution
confirms our community’s position against the use of Seismic Airguns and speaks
out against Offshore Oil and Gas Exploration and Drilling off the North
Carolina Coast.
The National Oceanic Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) lists impulsive sound
sources such as airguns and impact pile drivers as having the greatest
potential to affect hearing sensitivity in marine mammals.
For those of us that may not be familiar with what the proposed seismic
surveying and the use of seismic airguns looks like…it’s a boat that can drag
as many as 20 to 30 seismic airguns with microphones strung out as far as 12
miles behind it; firing the airguns approximately every ten seconds, for days,
weeks and months on end. Each burst, from each gun is about 250 decibels, a jet
engine is 150 decibels. The human eardrum ruptures at 140 decibels. The sound
from air guns is not merely twice as loud, it is exponentially greater, each
guns’ release is louder than detonating a stick of dynamite, or a grenade.
The reason the explosive sound is so very loud is they are on the surface of
the ocean shooting through the water to create a map of the area over 2 miles
below the ocean floor.
Sound travels farther, faster and is amplified in water. Sounds this loud have
the potential to travel for hundreds and even thousands of miles through ocean
water according to Duke University Marine Lab Professor Dr. Doug Nowacek.
Earlier this year, when the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, BOEM, whose job
it is to manage the sale of the oil and gas leases, made their presentation in
Wilmington, I spoke directly with their staff Marine biologist. I asked her
what their plan was for guaranteeing the safety of our whales and dolphins.
And she said BOEM’s mitigation plan is to have spotters on the boats while they
are conducting seismic testing. And if one of their spotters sees an animal in
the area they will stop shooting the air guns. So the animal has to surface
within the sightline of the spotter to be detected. If the animal is close
enough to be seen before the powerful explosions under the water are stopped,
given the strength of the sound, this seems to be a flawed mitigation process.
And this does not even address the potential effects on other marine life, some
of which lives on the ocean floor and cannot move away from the sound.
In March of this year, 75 leading marine scientists, several from North
Carolina, signed a letter sent to President Obama stating that, “the magnitude
of the proposed seismic activity is likely to have significant, long-lasting,
and widespread impacts on the reproduction and survival of fish and marine
mammal populations in the region.”
Studies have proven that there’s only 10% of the big fishes left in our oceans
that were here 50 years ago. Hunted almost into extinction, there are only
about 450 North Atlantic Right Whales left on the planet and our Brunswick
County coast is part of their calving area.
Fisheries experts and both the Mid-Atlantic and South Atlantic Fishery
Management Councils have expressed grave concerns and opposition to the use of
seismic airguns and the potential effects on commercial and recreational fish
species in the area. The survival of much of our marine life depends on sound
and I think sometimes we forget that they are wild animals and for us to think
we can predict their exact migration patterns, locations and behaviors is
presumptuous at best.
The Bureau of Ocean Energy Management currently has 4 different applications
for permits to do seismic surveying in the Mid-Atlantic. These permits are for
overlapping areas and if these permits are granted they will be allowed to
begin seismic testing 3 miles off our shore.
If we reduce it to dollars, last year our Aldermen recognized that without
healthy marine life our economy would cease to exist. The resolution being
considered tonight supports our successful tourism and recreation and our
commercial and recreational fishing economies.
In 2014, North Carolina had a record 21.3 billion dollars spent in tourism. In
2014, North Carolina was the sixth most visited state in the nation. In 2014
Brunswick County was in the top 10 North Carolina counties for tourism.
Approximately 204,800 persons are employed in direct tourism jobs in North
Carolina and representing a 2014 tourism payroll of $4.9 billion.
Visitors to North Carolina generated more than $3.2 billion in federal, state
and local taxes. Because of North Carolina’s tourism industry, each North
Carolina household in 2014 saved $455 in state and local taxes as a direct
result of visitor spending in the state. In 2014 The NC Division of Marine
Fisheries (NCDENR) reported 2014 commercial fish landings in North Carolina to
be worth $93,843,254.
The jobs and the money estimates the American Petroleum Institute lobby group
and our state government, Governor McCrory, even North Carolina’s Secretary of
the Department of Environment and Natural Resources Donald van der Vaart are
quoting… come from a report, paid for by the American Petroleum Institute and
written by Quest Offshore Resources, who are according to their own website are
and I quote, “Quest Offshore is a boutique strategic advisory and consulting
firm to the global offshore Oil & Gas industry.”
The Quest report is not based on the current Bureau of Ocean Energy
Management’s (BOEM’s) proposal to sell one lease and drill 50 miles offshore
…No, the Quest Report is based on the premise that drilling will be allowed
closer to our shores, that BOEM will be allowed to sell 350 leases, and that
North Carolina will get revenue sharing that doesn’t even exist and would
require federal legislation to make it possible.
To put this idea of revenue sharing in perspective…Currently the Gulf States
have a revenue sharing plan. They get 37.5% of the leases, royalties and bonus
bids but it has a 500 million dollar cap…and in 2017 the cap will drop to 375
million dollars. This money is split between 4 states.
We all know results depend on who’s doing the math. In spite of the fact that
the Gulf States have a Revenue Sharing plan in place, in the past three years,
the Federal government received over 22 billion dollars and the Gulf States got
about 4 million to share among themselves.
Why would we here in North Carolina consider risking a successful 21.3 billion
dollar tourism industry for this; by anyone’s definition…it’s not smart
business.
According to NOAA’s website, spill accidents are caused by weather, human error
or equipment failure; not the lack of technology. And when something happens
that hasn’t happened before, then the oil and gas industry has to throw the
kitchen sink at it. Like the dispersant they used in the BP Deep Horizon spill…
Within a week after the spill, tens of thousands of gallons of the dispersant
Corexit were dumped into the Gulf from C-130 airplanes and blasted into the
gushing wellhead by subsea robots. Officials at the time judged that the
consequences were worth the risk.
A few weeks after the BP accident in May 2010,” Jane Lubchenco, director of the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration NOAA, told reporters at a news
conference, “It’s a tradeoff decision to lessen the overall environmental
impact” she went on to say, “When an oil spill occurs, there are no good
outcomes.” The decision to use this dispersant made in those first panic-filled
weeks after the BP well blew has had catastrophic health effects on the
countless people that worked around it, even death, harmed animals and
ecosystems exposed to it, and may have undiscovered consequences for future
generations.
The onshore infrastructure, rail lines, tractor trailers, port expansion,
dredging to accommodate the tankers and the industrialization of our coastline
required to support offshore drilling will impact our coastal communities in
ways that will make us unrecognizable to ourselves.
The Alaskan Senator…Senator Murkowski has introduced a bill in Congress to
allow drilling structures as close as 12 miles to shore. The time is now for us
to speak out, to hold our Governor and our representatives in Raleigh and
Washington accountable. They need to represent us, they need to protect our
economy and our environment.
After tonight, with your leadership, your willingness to take a stand, I hope
each of us here carries this message out into our community and beyond. It’s
going to take all of us to stop this.
I stand before you grateful for your commitment, your willingness to consider
the importance of the things that make our Southport community so very special.
Thank you.
   Ms. Jill Brown, 314 Marina View Drive, and owner of Yacht Basin Eatery,
stated her concerns about flooding in the area. She spoke in favor of a
proposed 4-hour parking limit while recommending consideration be made for
Yacht Basin area employee parking on Caswell Avenue.
   Mr. Alex Shovlowsky, 314 Marina View Drive, talked about the traffic
congestion in the Yacht Basin. He questioned what area the 4-hour parking limit
would encompass and he emphasized the importance of a study on how to prevent
the flooding. He commented on the parking hazard at the Moore Street and
Caswell Avenue intersection.
   Ms. Shirley Wilson, 502 W. Brunswick Street, commended the Parks and
Recreation Department for providing a variety of events and a high quality of
care for children of working parents.
   Mr. Woody Wilson, 502 W. Brunswick Street, stated his opposition to the one-
way recommendation for Yacht Basin Drive noting it would compound the problems
experienced in the area.
   Ms. Debbie Barnes, 425 W. West Street, provided photographs showing Yacht
Basin Drive under water. She pointed out that making Yacht Basin Drive one-way
would force people to drive through the salt water or turn around and break the
law. Ms. Barnes also supplied pictures of pedestrians with nowhere to walk
along Brunswick Street except in the middle of the street. She spoke about
cars, golf carts, bicycles, and skateboarders going the wrong way on Short
Street. She stated her support for the proposed resolution in opposition to
offshore drilling.
   Ms. Martha Johnson, 227 E. 11th Street, spoke in opposition to offshore
drilling.
   Ms. Andrea Dickens, 202 E. 8th Street, asked the Board to consider extending
sidewalks to Dosher Hospital. She talked about a feral cat population in the
area of the Dosher Hospital retention pond on N. Atlantic Avenue and the
condition of a building used by Dosher Hospital during recent construction. She
stated her opposition to offshore drilling.
   Ms. Roberta Dosher, 210 W. Moore Street, stated her support for changing the
parking on W. Moore Street to improve visibility at the Moore Street and
Caswell Avenue intersection. She spoke in favor of a 4-way stop at the
intersection.
   Ms. Lora Sharkey, 432 Cades Trail, spoke in opposition to offshore drilling.
She stated her support of time limitations on public parking.
   Ms. Sandy Spencer, 410 W. Brunswick Street, stated her opposition to the
recommendation to make Yacht Basin Drive a one-way street. She shared her
observations of drivers going the wrong way on Brunswick Street and she
remarked on the flooding issues in the area.
E)   Approval of Agenda
   Mayor Howard requested Items G and 12 be removed from the agenda and placed
on the September meeting agenda. He requested addition of: Receipt of FY 2014-
2015 June 30 Financial Report and consideration of a contract for a Yacht Basin
Drive drainage study.
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to approve the agenda as
amended.  Unanimous vote; motion carried.
F)   Announcements
   Alderman Barnes announced that the Southport-Oak Island Dixie Youth Baseball
Team won the State Championship, attended the Little League World Series and
finished 6th nationally. He announced that the team would be formally
recognized at the September meeting of the Board. He thanked all businesses and
citizens that contributed towards the team’s attendance at the World Series.
   Alderman Barnes announced that the West Brunswick, Under 18, Girls Softball
Team won their World Series.
   Mayor Howard reminded the public that paving of Moore and Howe Streets would
commence after Labor Day with work being performed at night. He asked for
patience with the noise and inconveniences that would likely be experienced.
   City Manager McDuffie announced that the Waterfront Steering Committee would
be holding a public meeting Monday, August 17, 5:30 p.m. in the Community
Building.
   City Manager McDuffie introduced new Public Works Department employees
Michael Spicer and Melisha Moore. He introduced Mr. Gary Smith as the Interim
Police Chief.
G)   ETHICS STATEMENT:
   Mayor Howard stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any conflict of
interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect to matters on
the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to approve the consent
agenda. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Minutes for May 26 Public Hearing - approved
Minutes for June 8 Budget Workshop -  approved
Minutes for July 9 Regular Meeting - approved
Franchise Agreement with Brunswick County for Ambulance Services – approved
(Agreement included as Attachment #1)
North Carolina Department of Transportation Disaster Related Debris Removal
Agreement – approved (Agreement included as Attachment #2)
Reappoint Mr. Robert Jones to ABC Board
AGENDA
5.   Staff Report; Parking in Yacht Basin Area
Interim Police Chief Smith presented his findings of the all-day parking along
W. Moore Street, Caswell Avenue and Yacht Basin Drive. He reported that he had
identified approximately a dozen cars owned by contractors who work on Bald
Head Island. He indicated he spoke with several of the contractors and they
stated their opinion they did not feel eight hours parking posed a problem in
the public parking spaces. Chief Smith recommended imposing a four hour parking
limit in the area.
Alderman Adams suggested that area business owners provide decals to their
employees to prevent them from being ticketed.
Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Adams to implement a four hour
parking limit in the Yacht Basin Area effective September 1with placement of
signs. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
RECESS – 6:54
RETURN TO SESSION – 8:00
6.   Presentation of Electrical Rates & Rate Committee Recommendation
   City Manager McDuffie gave a presentation about a proposed new electric rate
structure. He explained the cost to the city to purchase electricity from the
North Carolina Eastern Municipal Power Agency (NCEMPA) which included the
kilowatt cost, operations and maintenance, billing, personnel, insurance,
transformers, and line and infrastructure costs. He further gave details to:
   ∙   An increase occurs during peak hours for which the city pays a “demand
cost,”
   ∙   Annual cost of $900,000 for 2,810 customers,
   ∙   The potential to lower costs for customers by using Load Management
switches,
   ∙   The proposed base rates match the rate of Brunswick Electric Membership
Corp. (BEMC),
   ∙   Customers will see savings in their per kilowatt/hour cost,
   ∙   The City will receive $800,000 annually from the sale of assets,
   ∙   The City will realize an annual reduction in revenue of $220,000,
   ∙   BEMC metering and billing will cost $425,000
   ∙   1,000 Load Management switches will be provided free of charge to
customers.
   City Manager McDuffie indicated that the commercial demand rates were not
recommended for change but did need to be reviewed in the future.
   City Manager McDuffie advised that the Rate Committee recommended adopting
the new rates, allowing BEMC to undertake billing for electricity and the city
to begin providing Load Management switches.
   Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Poole to approve the new rates
as recommended with the bills effective September 1 and to give away load
management switches right away and stop the rebate program.
Discussion
   Alderman Adams stated his support for the Rate Committee recommendation. He
suggested tabling the issue to allow citizens time to review the information
presented.
Ayes:   Aldermen Barnes, Poole, Powell, Humphreys
Abstain: Alderman Adams
Motion passed 5-0
7.   Budget Amendment #1 for Setup of Brunswick Electric Membership Corporation
(BEMC) Doing Utility Billing
   Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Poole to approve Budget
Amendment #1. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1660.gif]
Budget Amendment
Fiscal Year 2015-2016
Budget Amendment #1
WHEREAS the City of Southport desires to engage Brunswick Electric Membership
Corporation to change out the electric meters and provide billing services at a
startup cost of $425,000; and
WHEREAS there are sufficient funds in the purchase of electricity from the
savings of rate decrease from Electric Cities; and
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2015-2016 needs to be amended to
reflect the transfer necessary to carry out this use of these funds;
   BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2015-2016 shall be
amended as follows:
ELECTRIC FUND                     Previous Amount      Increase/
(Decrease)   Amended Amount
Purchase of Electricity
30-7210-2700                  $ 5,882,901      $ (425,000)      $ 5,457,901
Contract Services - BEMC
30-7210-6001                  $ 0         $ 425,000      $ 425,000
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, August 13, 2015
                        /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
/s/Michele Windham, City Clerk
8.   Presentation of June 30, 2015 Account Statements
   Finance Director, Ms. Trexler, presented the FY 2014-2015 June 30, 2015
account statements. (Statements included as Attachment #3)
9.   Budget Amendment #2 for Load Management Switch Program
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to approve Budget
Amendment #2. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1713.gif]
Budget Amendment
Fiscal Year 2015-2016
Budget Amendment #2
   WHEREAS the City of Southport desires to purchase Load Management Switches
to encourage savings among our residences and the City for Electricity and
   WHEREAS there are sufficient funds in the Purchase of Electricity from the
savings of a rate decrease from Electric Cities; and
   WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2015-2016 needs to be amended
to reflect the transfer necessary to carry out this use of these funds;
      BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2015-2016 shall be
amended as follows:
ELECTRIC FUND                     Previous Amount      Increase/
(Decrease)   Amended Amount
Purchase of Electricity
30-7210-2700                  $ 5,457,901      $ (155,000)      $ 5,302,901
Capital Outlay Equipment
30-7210-5100                  $ 0         $ 155,000      $ 155,000
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, August 13, 2015
                        /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
/s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
10.   Traffic & Transportation Committee Recommendations
   Mr. Allen explained the recommendations from the Traffic & Transportation
Committee:
      1.   Remove four (4) parking spaces on the north side of Moore Street
immediately west of Caswell Avenue, and replace with two (2) parallel parking
spaces. This will improve the existing sight distance issue at that
intersection.
      2.   Paint crosswalks on Moore Street, immediately east of Caswell Avenue
and on Caswell Avenue, immediately north of Moore Street.
      3.   Make Yacht Basin Drive one way, northbound, between Bay and Moore
Streets.
      4.   “No Parking” signs be placed on the south side of W. West Street,
along the eastern half of the area between the third and fourth entrances to
Southport Marina, in order to alleviate ingress issues for customers of the
business located across West Street from the marina.
   Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Powell to approve removing four
(4) parking spaces on the north side of Moore Street immediately west of
Caswell Avenue, and replace with two (2) parallel parking spaces. Unanimous
vote; motion carried.
   Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Poole to paint crosswalks on
Moore Street, immediately east of Caswell Avenue and on Caswell Avenue,
immediately north of Moore Street. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Alderman Powell recommended, and Board consensus was, for the City Manager
to change the speed limit on Brunswick Street to 10 mph, put up one-way signs,
increase enforcement, and study the area for improving conditions for
pedestrians.
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Barnes not to accept the
recommendation to make Yacht Basin Drive one way. Unanimous vote; motion
carried.
   City Manager McDuffie reported that the manager of Southport Marina shared
his opposition to the recommendation to place “no parking” signs between the
entrances to the marina.
   Alderman Barnes, referencing his years on the Planning Board, noted that
when a business is being established, it must provide adequate ingress/egress
to the property without using the public right of way. He questioned if the
area needs to be better patrolled and enforced for illegal parking on the right
of way. He suggested the storage facility could improve access with one way in
and one way out.
   Alderman Powell pointed out that a fire truck would be unable to get into
the storage area if a boat was on fire.
   It was noted that W. West Street is a State road. The recommendation failed
due to lack of a motion.
11.   Police Chief Position
   Mayor Howard pointed out that the City Personnel Policy did not reflect the
practice of the City Manager and Police Chief living within the city limits.
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to adopt the Resolution
Amending Article V of the Southport Personnel Policy with a 90 day period to
secure housing in the City and up to 90 additional days. Unanimous vote; motion
carried.
RESOLUTION AMENDING ARTICLE V OF THE SOUTHPORT PERSONNEL POLICY
   THAT WHEREAS, the positions of City Manager and Chief of Police are
extremely important and critical administrative positions within city
government and require the respect and confidence of the community; and
   WHEREAS, it is important that the persons holding these positions be a part
of the Southport Community and a resident of the City;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT HEREBY RESOLVED as follows:
   1.   That Article V, Section 6 of the Southport Personnel Policy, entitled
“Qualification Standards”, is hereby amended by adding the following language
at the end of the present section:
      In addition, the City Manager and Chief of Police shall be and remain
residents of the City of Southport. In the event that the persons hired for
these positions do not reside within the City at the time of appointment, said
persons shall have 90 days to locate within the city limits. In the event of
unforeseen hardship, this period of time may be extended for up to 90
additional days by the Board of Aldermen.
   This the 13th day of August, 2015.            City of Southport
                        /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
12.   Appointment to Planning Board
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to recommend to the
Brunswick County Commissioners that Scott Jones, 1001 Pete’s Camp Road, be
placed on the Planning Board in an extra- territorial jurisdiction (ETJ) seat.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
13.   Consideration of Amending Code of Ordinances Chapter 10, Article III,
Peddlers, Itinerant Merchants and Vendors
   Alderman Humphreys recommended language stipulating; “no pushcart, wagon,
vehicle or other conveyance may be located within 50 feet of the principal
public entrance to any food service business area not owned by the peddler or
vendor selling the merchandise approved for sale under this Article.”
   Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Poole to approve the amendments
to the Ordinance including the recommendation by Alderman Humphreys. By an
uplift of hands, Unanimous vote; motion carried.
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 10, ARTICLE III, OF THE SOUTHPORT CITY CODE
   BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport that
section 10-63 of the Code of Ordinances is hereby amended to read as follows:
Sec. 10-63. Restrictions.
Except as may be specifically permitted or allowed by the City for special
events and activities, the following restrictions apply to those businesses and
activities regulated under this article:
   (a)   All permits hereunder shall be effective and valid only between the
hours of 8:30 a.m. to 9:00 p.m., except during July second through July sixth
when such licenses shall be valid between 8:30 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.
   (b)   The duration of sales for a peddler within any one block in any one
day shall be limited to thirty (30) minutes.
   (c)   Peddling shall not be permitted at any time within the rights of way
of Bay Street or Yacht Basin Drive.
   (d)   All sales are prohibited within marked fire zones, handicapped spaces
or other areas which prohibit parking.
   (e)   No peddler or itinerant merchant shall block or otherwise prevent the
public from using parking spaces when not in use by the vendor.
   (f)   No peddler shall leave a pushcart, wagon, vehicle or other conveyance
unattended on a city right of way or street.
   (g)   No pushcart, wagon, vehicle or other conveyance may be located within
fifty (50) feet of the principal public entrance to any food service business
area not owned by the peddler or vendor selling the merchandise approved for
sale under this Article.
   (h)   An itinerant merchant shall locate for the purpose of selling
merchandise only in the following zoning districts: Business District (BD) and
Highway Commercial (HC). It shall be unlawful to locate in any other zoning
district.
   (i)   Noise-making devices such as, but not limited to, bells, whistles,
gongs and recordings, may not be used to advertise or announce the sale of
products or merchandise.
   (j)   Itinerant merchants shall not locate within the right of way of any
public street in the city.
Adopted this 13th day of August, 2015.         City of Southport
                     By: /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
14.   Consideration of Ordinance Chapter 10, Article VII, For-Hire Tours of the
Southport City Code
   Attorney Isenberg explained that he had amended the Ordinance per Board
requests: Tourism Commission will review applications for compliance and make a
recommendation to the Board of Aldermen, the Board of Aldermen will approve or
deny applications.
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to amend the Ordinance
with the information provided by the City Attorney. Unanimous vote; motion
carried.
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 10, ARTICLE VII, OF THE SOUTHPORT CITY CODE
         BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport that
Chapter 10, Article VII, of the Southport City Code is hereby amended to read
as follows:
ARTICLE VII. FOR-HIRE TOURS
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
Sec. 10-156. Purpose and authority.
It is the purpose of this division to require that all walking and vehicle
tours operated in the city for profit be licensed and regulated as set forth in
this article. This article is not intended to regulate walking and vehicle
tours conducted by nonprofit organizations such as the Southport Historical
Society, the North Carolina Maritime Museum at Southport or schools.
Furthermore, the provisions of this article shall not apply to tours conducted
entirely off the public streets, sidewalks, rights-of-way or municipal
property.
Sec. 10-157. Definitions.
   The following words, terms, and phrases when used in this article shall have
the meaning described to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   Amplifying device shall mean any equipment or apparatus that broadens or
magnifies the human voice, music or any sound.
   Charter routes shall mean the approved route of travel for any tour.
   Person shall mean a natural person, corporation, company, partnership,
limited liability company, or other organization operating for profit.
   Public right-of-way shall mean any street, highway, sidewalk, parking lot or
alley that is owned, controlled, maintained or operated by the "city" or State
of North Carolina.
   Tour or touring shall mean the conducting of or the participation in
sightseeing on foot or in a vehicle in the "city" for hire or in combination
with a request for donations.
   Tour guide shall mean any person who acts or offers to act as a guide for
hire or compensation through any part of the "city" to pedestrians or vehicle
passengers.
   Tour guide permit shall mean the written authority granted by the tourism
commission for an individual to conduct a sightseeing tour on foot or by
vehicle within the "city".
   Vehicle shall mean bicycles, pedicabs, animal drawn or motorized vehicles
used to transport members of a sightseeing tour.
LICENSES AND BUSINESS REGULATIONS
DIVISION 2. TOUR GUIDE PERMIT
Sec. 10-158. Required Permit; Number of Permits.
   No person shall offer a for-hire tour within the corporate limits of the
"city" unless such person shall have first applied for and obtained from the
City a tour guide permit. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a tour
in any manner contrary to the provisions of this article or without first
having obtained said permit. No more than 3 walking tour permits, 4 low-speed
vehicle tour permits and 1 animal-drawn vehicle permit may be issued and in
effect at any time.
Sec. 10-159. Application.
   Each applicant for a tour guide permit shall submit in writing an
application to the Tourism Commission containing the following information and
documentation: (Application forms available at the Southport Visitors Center)
   (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the owner and operator of
the business. If the applicant is a partnership, the names and addresses of the
general partners; if a corporation the names and addresses of the directors and
officers; if a limited liability company, the names and addresses of the
members and managers.
   (2)   A copy of a valid North Carolina driver’s license.
   (3)   A criminal record check of the previous 5 years which includes
criminal and driving record.
   (4)   The address and phone number from which the applicant will conduct
business operations.
   (5)   A description of the charter route to be used by the applicant
including starting point and stopping points along the route.
      (The tourism commission may alter starting location to prevent traffic
congestion).
   (4)   A description of the hours of operation of the proposed business and
the proposed hours during which the tours will be conducted.
   (5)   A detailed description of the information to be given to the members
of the tour related to those sights to be viewed within the "city", including a
copy of any published literature proposed to be provided by the tour guide to
any members of the tour.
   (6)   A statement showing that the tour guide has sufficient knowledge,
skill and information to conduct said tours.
   (7)   A schedule of the rates and charges proposed by the applicant in the
operation of the business.
   (8)   A certificate of general liability insurance in a minimum amount of
one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) which specifically provides that the
same many not be cancelled without thirty (30) days written notice to the
"city".
   (9)   Proof of City of Southport Privilege License.
   (10)   Application fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) payable at the time of
application and annually thereafter as a renewal fee.
Sec. 10-160. Handicap accessibility.
   All proposed charter routes must follow handicap accessible public rights-
of-way appropriate to tours where walking is utilized by a walking tour or
exiting a tour vehicle.
Sec. 10-161. Hearing; approval.
   (a)   Upon receipt of the complete application for a tour guide permit, the
Tourism Commission shall conduct a hearing on the application within seven (7)
business days. The applicant shall be notified of the time, date and place of
the hearing at least forty-eight (48) hours in advance of the said hearing. The
Tourism Commission may recommend approval of the application to the Board of
Aldermen if it determines that:
      (1)   The applicant is able and sufficiently knowledgeable about the
history of the city to perform the proposed service.
      (2)   The applicant has not within five (5) years of the date of the
application been convicted of a felony, driving while impaired or any crime of
moral turpitude.
      (3)   The application is complete and sufficient with all necessary
documentation.
      (4)   The applicant meets all of the minimum qualifications for the tour
guide permit.
      (5)   The applicant is solvent and financially able to furnish adequate
service on a continuing basis and have the necessary insurance required.
      (6)   The proposed service will be carried out in a reasonably safe
manner so as not to interfere with the health, safety and welfare of
pedestrians, motor vehicles and the general public and the proposed tour will
not unreasonably interfere with the use of the streets, sidewalks, parking
lots, alleys, parks and other public properties within the "city".
      (7)   The maximum number of permits have not already been issued and in
effect.
      (8)   The tour, including any vehicle or conveyance, will be compatible
with the history and area of the City where the tour is conducted.
   (b) The Tourism Commission shall recommend approval or non-approval of the
application to the Board of Aldermen within 5 days of the hearing. The Tourism
Commission may recommend conditions to the tour guide permit as deemed
necessary in the interest of the health, welfare and safety of the public. The
Board of Aldermen shall consider the recommendation of the Tourism Commission
at the next regular meeting of the Board of Aldermen held more than 10 days
from the date of receipt of the Tourism Commission’s recommendation. At said
time, the Board of Aldermen may issue or deny the permit.
   (c)   Each tour guide permit granted by the Board of Aldermen shall be valid
for a period of one year and must be renewed annually. The permit shall include
the charter route and specific hours of operation. The Board of Aldermen shall
have the authority to set other conditions to the tour guide permit as deemed
necessary in the interest of the health, welfare and safety of the public.
Sec. 10-162. Prohibited acts.
   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this article and a violation of a
tour guide permit for any tour guide or any tour guide permit holder to:
   (1)   Fail to follow the approved charter route or move in a manner blocking
entrances to stores, homes, public parks, cemeteries or other places of
business or interfere with street traffic.
   (2)   Fail to follow the lawful commands of a law enforcement officer.
   (3)   Move on a sidewalk in excess of a column of two (2) persons abreast.
   (4)   Solicit members of the public verbally while such member of the public
is on any public street, public sidewalk of public property.
   (5)   Operate an amplifying device during the course of the tour without
specific written tourism commission approval.
   (6)   Fail to comply with all the conditions of the tour guide permit.
   (7)   Place a sign in a public space to promote the business except as
allowed below.
   (8)   Conduct a tour within the confines of a cemetery after dusk.
A temporary sign may be placed one (1) hour before the operating hours of the
tour, within one (1) block of the starting location of the tour and must be
removed at the end of the business day of the permit holder. Both the starting
location of the tour and the location of the temporary sign must be approved by
the Tour Commission.
Sec. 10-163. Revocation.
   The Board of Aldermen may revoke a tour guide permit after a hearing
conducted with forty-eight (48) hours' notice to the permit holder upon the
following grounds:
   (1)   A violation of the terms and conditions of this ordinance or the
conditions of the tour guide permit.
   (2)   Upon determining that false information was given on the application
for a tour guide permit.
   (3)   The cancellation or revocation of the tour guide permit holder's
liability insurance coverage.
   (4)   The business closing of the holder of a tour guide permit.
   (5)   Conviction of a felony, driving while impaired or crime involving the
moral turpitude by a tour guide or permit holder.
   (6)   Failing to operate the tour business for 90 consecutive days.
Sec. 10-164. Transfer.
   The tour guide permit issued pursuant to this article shall not be
transferred by the permit holder.
Sec. 10-165. Violations.
   In addition to revocation of a tour guide permit, the violation of any of
the provisions of the ordinance shall subject the offender to a civil penalty
in the amount of fifty dollars ($50.00) per violation to be collected by the
"city" in the nature of a debt. Each day a continuing violation shall be deemed
a separate violation.
Sec. 10-166.  Exemptions.
   Exempt from this article are walking and vehicle tours conducted by non-
profit organizations such as the Southport Historical Society, The North
Carolina Maritime Museum at Southport and schools. Exempt, non-profit
organizations are subject to the provisions of this article in all matters
related to health and safety, right-of-way and public access concerns.
DIVISION 3. TOURISM COMMISSION
Sec. 10-167. Tourism Commission.
   A Tourism Commission is hereby established to study issues relating to for-
hire tours within the City of Southport, to make recommendations after a review
and study and to execute the provisions of this article regulating for-hire
tours. The Tourism Commission shall consist of three (3) members and shall
include the director of tourism for the City of Southport, the chief of police
of Southport and the code enforcement officer for the City of Southport. The
administrative activities of the Tourism Commission will be placed with the
department of tourism for the City of Southport. The Tourism Commission will
report to the Board of Aldermen and make recommendations when necessary related
to the ordinance.
This the 13th day of August, 2015.         City of Southport
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
15.   Discussion/Resolution Opposing Off Shore Exploration/Production of Oil/
Gas Resources off the Coast
   Alderman Poole shared her personal sentiments; “I want to speak from the
heart. I am passionate about this. All of us have acknowledged that we are at
the mouth of the Cape Fear River, the jewel that keeps people coming back and
moving here. Many of us come from families that made their living on the water.
I want to preserve that. I was always taught to respect the ocean.”
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to approve the Resolution
in continued opposition of seismic surveying and stated opposition to oil and
gas offshore exploration and drilling on the continental shelf off the coast of
North Carolina. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
RESOLUTION IN CONTINUED OPPOSITION OF SEISMIC SURVEYING AND STATED OPPOSITION
TO OIL AND GAS
OFFSHORE EXPLORATION AND DRILLING ON THE CONTINENTAL SHELF OFF THE COAST OF
NORTH CAROLINA
WHEREAS, the City of Southport is committed to being a sound steward of the
unique coastal environment, including the rare maritime forest, estuaries,
marshes, and pristine beaches on and around our regional coastal communities;
and
WHEREAS, the Aldermen of the City of Southport recognize that Southport’s
economic survival solely depends on the sustainability of the existing
environment; and
WHEREAS, on March 5, 2015, a letter was sent to President Obama signed by 75
leading marine scientists expressing their concern over the significant threat
to marine life posed by the introduction of seismic oil and gas exploration
along the U.S. Mid-Atlantic and South Atlantic coasts. The letter further
states, “Opening the U.S. East Coast to seismic airgun exploration poses an
unacceptable risk of serious harm to marine life at the species and population
levels, the full extent of which will not be understood until long after the
harm occurs.” The scientists’ letter serves as additional confirmation of the
City of Southport’s previous resolution in opposition of the use of seismic
airguns.
WHEREAS, exploratory and commercial drilling, extraction, and transportation of
offshore oil and gas resources pose a significant risk of spill; and
WHEREAS, offshore drilling requires substantial onshore infrastructure, such as
pipelines and/or refineries, which will further risk the health and safety of
the environment, character and natural beauty of North Carolina’s coast; and
WHEREAS, it is known that the 20 counties that comprise North Carolina’s
coastal region generate more commercial and personal income, public revenues,
and employment opportunities than the petroleum and natural gas industry is
estimated to generate for the State, specifically,
   1.   In 2014, a record $21.3 billion in domestic visitor/tourism spending
was realized in North Carolina; and
   2.   In 2014, North Carolina was the sixth most visited state in the nation.
Out of the 100 counties in the State of North Carolina, in terms of travel
expenditures, three of the top 10 counties were coastal counties; and
   3.   In 2014, direct tourism employment in North Carolina is approximately
204,800 persons, with direct tourism payroll of $4.9 billion; and
   4.   Visitors to North Carolina generated more than $3.2 billion in federal,
state and local taxes in 2014; and
   5.   The NC Division of Marine Fisheries (NCDENR) reported 2014 commercial
fish landings in North Carolina to be worth $93,843,254; and
   6.   Because of North Carolina’s tourism industry, each North Carolina
household in 2014 saved $455 in state and local taxes as a direct result of
visitor spending in the state; and
WHEREAS, visitors from all over the world come to enjoy the natural beauty of
our clean beaches, salt and freshwater marshes, inlets, estuaries and
tributaries; and
WHEREAS, the City of Southport and her surrounding coastal communities are rich
in natural areas that provide sanctuary, nesting and breeding grounds for
diverse groups of migratory birds, turtles, dolphin, whales, fish and other
wildlife, some of which are on the endangered species list; and
WHEREAS, North Carolina’s coastal waters and natural habitats provide the world
with some of the best wild-caught seafood, renowned for its freshness and
exceptional quality; and
WHEREAS, the inherent risks to North Carolina’s 320 miles of valued coastline
from seismic surveying, offshore oil and natural gas exploration and drilling
have the potential to irrevocably harm our natural environment, our economic
well-being and our overall quality of life; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, the Aldermen of the City of Southport reaffirm
the resolution passed in 2014 in opposition to seismic surveying and are
opposed to the exploration and development of oil/gas resources on the
continental shelf or elsewhere off the coast of North Carolina; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED the Aldermen of the City of Southport stand in
solidarity with North Carolina coastal communities and communities who may be
affected by the onshore infrastructure supporting offshore exploration and
drilling and who may suffer long-term social, economic and environmental
impacts from offshore exploration and production of petroleum resources on the
continental shelf off the coast of North Carolina.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED the Aldermen of the City of Southport call upon all
North Carolina municipal and county governing bodies of North Carolina to pass
similar resolutions to this one and that the League of Municipalities joins in
this effort.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED the Aldermen of the City of Southport urge the Governor
McCrory and the entire North Carolina General Assembly to oppose offshore
petroleum production policies that risk the health, safety and sound
environmental stewardship of North Carolina’s coastline whose natural beauty
attracts a proven tourism-driven economy.
On Behalf of the City of Southport Board of Aldermen:
                         /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
16.   4-Way Stops
   Mayor Howard asked the Board to consider approving a 4-way stop at the W.
Moore Street and Caswell Avenue intersection to help control some of the
dangers the area residents feel are there.
   Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Poole to approve a 4-way stop
at the W. Moore Street and Caswell Avenue intersection. By an uplift of
hands, unanimous vote; motion carried.
17.   Consideration of Contract for Yacht Basin Street Drainage Study
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Humphreys to approve the
contract with Norris & Tunstall Consulting Engineers, P.C. for a Yacht Basin
Drive Drainage Study in the amount of $5,000. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
(Contract on file in the Clerk’s office)
Staff Reports
   City Manager McDuffie reported that the City had been awarded a $4,000 Smart
Communities Grant from Electricities to perform environmental testing work for
the re-use of the former wastewater treatment plant.
Board Comments
   Mayor Howard announced that the City has been asked to join with Brunswick
Community College and the University of North Carolina School of Government to
consider effective community uses for the 9,000 square feet of unused space in
the Brunswick Community College Lord Street Annex.
   At the request of Alderman Powell, City Manager McDuffie reported that the
public restrooms at 107 E. Nash Street have opened and used 25,000 gallons of
water during the 4th of July Festival weekend. He stated the downtown
businesses have expressed appreciation for the facilities.
   Alderman Adams discussed the difficulty residents in Ward 2 experience
turning left onto N. Howe Street.
   Alderman Adams motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to send a resolution to
the North Carolina Department of Transportation (NCDOT) and legislative
delegates Senator Rabon and Representative Iler to study the area between 9th
and 12th streets for addition of a traffic signal. Unanimous vote; motion
carried.
A RESOLUTION REQUESTING THE NORTH CAROLINA DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
UNDERTAKE A STUDY OF AN
ADDITIONAL TRAFFIC LIGHT ON NORTH HOWE STREET
WHEREAS, the citizens of the City of Southport and all those who visit,
appreciate and enjoy the unique history, charm and appeal that the Southport
area offers; and
WHEREAS, the safe use of roads and highways is of utmost importance to not only
the citizens of Southport, but also to our visitors from this great State and
other states and countries; and   
WHEREAS, Howe Street is a state-maintained road and has only three signalized
intersections and thirteen unsignalized intersections; and
WHEREAS, this creates a dangerous situation for drivers attempting to turn left
onto Howe Street from these numerous unsignalized intersections.
BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the City of Southport requests that the North Carolina
Department of Transportation undertake a feasibility study for adding a traffic
light on N. Howe Street in the area between 9th & 12th Streets.
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, August 13, 2015
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
     
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
Adjournment – 9:05 p.m.
Alderman Powell moved to adjourn the meeting, second by Alderman Barnes.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
                        /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
SEPTEMBER 1, 2015
SPECIAL SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  SPECIAL SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING SEPTEMBER 1, 2015
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor Robert D. Howard
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Nelson Adams, Todd Coring,
            Jim Powell, Buddy Barnes, Emily Humphreys
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Gayle Jones, Deputy City Clerk
   David Fox, Public Works Director
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
   Joni Schinske, Interim Tourism Director
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   Donna Boyan, Administrative Assistant
   Sherry Hinz, Tax Collector
   John Allen, Community Development Specialist
   Teresa Parker-Mosley, Human Resources Technician
   Ellie Pittenger, Electrical Superintendent
   Vickie Potter, Community Building Facilitator   
   Angie Bates, Utilities Billing Specialist
   Rose McKeithan, Customer Service Representative
   Mark Sutherland, Buildings & Grounds Supervisor
   Gerry Sullivan, Buildings & Grounds Maintenance Technician
   Cheryl Hayes, Police Dispatcher
A)   Call to Order – 4:00 p.m.
Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 4:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Barnes welcomed everyone and retired Police Chief Jerry Dove gave the
invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Barnes led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Announcement
   Alderman Poole announced that the 2 nd International Day of Peace would be
observed Sunday, September 20, 2015 on the Fort Johnston lawn. Alderman Poole
motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to adopt the Resolution in Support of
International Day of Peace. By an uplift of hands, unanimous vote; motion
carried.
SOUTHPORT
RESOLUTION IN SUPPORT OF INTERNATIONAL DAY OF PEACE
WHEREAS, The United Nations in 1981 established a yearly International Day of
Peace, a day devoted to strengthening the ideals of peace both within and among
all nations and people; and
WHEREAS, The International Day of Peace is now observed around the world each
year on September 20 to put aside all that separates us and to experience
peace; and
WHEREAS, in 1984, the General Assembly adopted the Declaration on the Right of
Peoples to Peace; and
WHEREAS, the theme of the 2015 International Day of Peace is “Partnerships For
Peace - Dignity For All”; and
WHEREAS, Southport residents are coordinating a celebration of the
International Day of Peace on a local level; and
WHEREAS, the Celebration of Peace will be held and will include songs, dances,
art, informational booths and exhibits, a Peace Circle discussion, chidren
crafts, and a Peace Pilgrim film; and
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Mayor and Southport Board of Aldermen
on this the 1st day of September 2015, hereby proclaim Sunday, September 20,
2015 as “Peace Day” in the City of Southport and urge all citizens to join in
the festivities of this day and promote peace among all peoples.
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
E)   Swearing in of Police Chief Gary Smith
   Mayor Howard remarked on the safety of Southport through the efforts of the
area’s public safety personnel. He stated the Board’s full support for the
selection of Mr. Smith, a Southport native, who cares about the people of the
community.
   Officers present from the Southport Police Department, Brunswick County
Sheriff’s Office and neighboring municipalities stood together in a show of
support.
   Interim Police Chief Gary Smith was joined by his wife as he took the Oath
of Office as Police Chief. The oath was delivered by Alderman Coring.
   A reception in honor of the new Police Chief was held.
Closed Session – 4:25 p.m.
    Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Poole to go into Closed
Session pursuant to N.C.G.S. 143-318.11(a)(6) for specific personnel issue.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Resume Open Session – 4:52 p.m.
Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Powell to come out of Closed
Session. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Mayor Howard reported that the city manager advised the Board of an
organizational restructuring of city staff and creation of a five (5)
department head management team. The manager recommended to the Board the
creation of a full-time fire chief position and appointment of the current
chief to the post.
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to create a position of
full-time Fire Chief in the City of Southport. Unanimous vote by an uplift of
hands; motion carried.
Chief Drew expressed his appreciation and readiness to serve the community.
   Mayor Howard remarked that the Board, during its September regular meeting,
will be presented with plans and recommendations for the Waterfront project
from the Waterfront Steering Committee. He shared his hopes that the project
will continue to move forward and the Board will prioritize the options. He
indicated a workshop would be scheduled to organize the effort. He envisioned
engaging someone to work with the Corps. of Engineers, undertake grant writing,
and assist legislative delegates in pursuing avenues for Southport to expend
occupancy tax revenues, similar to that permitted beach communities, towards
the project.
Adjournment - 5:15 p.m.
Alderman Powell moved to adjourn the meeting, second by Alderman Poole.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
                     /s/  Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:   /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
SEPTEMBER 10, 2015
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING SEPTEMBER 10, 2015
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor Robert D. Howard
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Buddy Barnes, Nelson Adams
            Jim Powell, Emily Humphreys, Todd Coring
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
   Gary Smith, Police Chief
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   Tyler Johnson, Rescue Chief
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
   Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   John Allen, Community Development Specialist
   Vickie Potter, Community Building Facilitator
   Ellie Pittenger, Electrical Superintendent
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Barnes welcomed everyone and Chief Drew gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Barnes led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Special Recognition
   Alderman Barnes praised the Southport-Oak Island Dixie Youth All-Star
baseball team and their coaches for their success as State Champions and
competitors in the Dixie Youth Baseball AA World Series. He thanked all who
donated to the team’s travel expenses. Alderman Barnes introduced each player
and with the assistance of Alderman Poole, presented each young man with a
distinctive City of Southport medallion. Each coach was presented with a key to
the city. The Resolution of Recognition was read into the record and presented
to the team.
   Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Poole to adopt the Resolution
of Recognition for the Southport-Oak Island Dixie Youth All-Stars. Unanimous
vote; motion carried.
[Image]
Resolution of Recognition
Southport-Oak Island Dixie Youth All-Stars
WHEREAS, the Southport-Oak Island Dixie Youth All-Stars under the leadership of
team Manager Clay Jenkins, Coach Jason Disbrow, and Coach Erik Bocook
participated in and won the Dixie Youth Baseball District 5 AAA Tournament on
July 1 at Lockwood Folly Township District Park at Supply; and
WHEREAS, the 10 and under All-Stars also won The North Carolina Dixie Youth
Baseball AAA State Tournament on July 18 in Lillington, NC; and
WHEREAS, the Southport-Oak Island All-Stars advanced to the fourth round of the
highly competitive 12 team, double elimination format of the Dixie Youth
Baseball AAA World Series held in Lexington, SC; and
WHEREAS, it is a pleasure to extend this Resolution in Recognition of the
Southport-Oak Island Dixie Youth All-Stars for their exceptional representation
of the Southport–Oak Island area and their outstanding achievements; and
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that this Resolution of Recognition is presented
on this 10th day of September 2015 by the Mayor and Southport Board of
Aldermen.
                      /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
E)   Public Comment
   Ms. Shirley Wilson, 502 Brunswick Street, stated her concerns about the city
staff reorganization. She noted the revised organization chart appears to have
eliminated the Tourism Director position and demoted the Interim Tourism
Director to a Facilitator. She spoke highly of the many efforts and
accomplishments of the Tourism Department. She questioned placing the Tourism
Department under the charge of the Parks & Recreation Director and Human
Resources Department under the City Clerk. She questioned the timing of the
change and asked that the reorganization be tabled until after the election and
seating of the new Mayor and Board.
   Mr. Ed Boguskie, 502 W. Brown Street, spoke about the city manager’s
consolidation of departments and if the Board had been consulted. He questioned
several of the specific changes and talked about the Board’s responsibility to
the citizens and employees.
   Ms. Lora Sharkey, 432 Cades Trail, Coastal Water Watch member, spoke against
use of concrete structures to ebate erosion along the waterfront.
   Ms. Michelle Cousineau, 818 Cape Harbor, N.C. Cooperative Extension Agent,
spoke about the history of the Caswell Avenue Community Garden, the
partnerships created and the positive impacts of the garden.
   Mr. Gerald Donaldson, 5990 Dutchman Creek Road, shared findings of the North
Carolina Coastal Federation and prominent, nationally recognized North Carolina
geologists and marine engineers to the use of hardened countermeasures such as
bulkheads, revetments, groins, jetties and breakwaters in ebating shoreline
erosion. He provided related reports concerning living shorelines and coastal
erosion, Hurricane Sandy, and a South Carolina seawall ban.   
   Mr. Alex Shovlowsky, 314 Marina View Drive, expressed concerns about the
reorganization of the city employees. He stated his opinion it should be tabled
until the new board can be seated and it can be analyzed to determine the
productivity of the departments.
   Mr. Wendell M. Watson, 601 N. Burrington Avenue, spoke of his love for the
Caswell Avenue Community Garden. He explained that the produce is shared with
the elderly and he talked about his neighbor who is blind and likes okra. He
shared his hopes that the City would support the garden.
   Ms. Bonnie Bray, 317 N. Rhett Street, read a letter submitted by her and Mr.
Eric Lappala and sent to Sharon Edmundson, Director, Fiscal Management Section,
Local Government Commission, Department of State Treasurer, concerning their
interpretation the city manager had violated the Fiscal and Budget Control Act.
(Letter on file in the Clerk’s office).
   Ms. Barbara Burrell, 6284 Cattail Court, past president of League of Women
Voters announced a forum to be held on Tuesday, October 6, 6:30 p.m. in the
Community Building for citizens to meet candidates for mayor and aldermen.
F)    Approval of Agenda
   Mayor Howard requested Item 2, Budget Amendment #3, and Item 4, Resolution
of Support for Southport-Oak Island Area Economic Development Committee, of the
Consent Agenda be pulled and placed on the regular Agenda along with addition
of a discussion pertaining to the Fire Department & Rescue Squad and
consideration of a proposal from Brunswick Community College.
   Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Powell to approve the agenda as
amended.  Unanimous vote; motion carried.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Howard stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
G)   Announcements
   Mayor Howard announced that the Fall Clean Up would be held Tuesday through
Saturday, September 15 through 19 at Taylor Field.
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Powell to approve the consent
agenda. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
1.    Minutes for August 13 Regular Meeting -  approved
2.    Diagonal to Parallel Parking on Moore Street West of Caswell Avenue–
approved
3.    Ordinance Amending the City of Southport Code of Ordinances, Chapter 7,
Article IV, Fire Prevention Code, Section 7-101– approved
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 7, ARTICLE IV, ENTITLED “FIRE PREVENTION CODE”,
OF THE CODE OF ORDINANCES
   BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport that
Section 7-101 of the Code of Ordinances is hereby amended to read as follows:
 Sec. 7-1-1. Adopted.
   The most current edition of the North Carolina Fire Prevention Code with all
appendices adopted by the North Carolina Building Code Council, including all
subsequent amendments or revisions duly adopted, are hereby incorporated by
reference and shall be applicable and enforceable within the corporate limits
and extraterritorial jurisdiction of the City of Southport. The listed
standards and publications which comprise a part of the North Carolina Fire
Prevention Code, as same may be periodically revised and updated, shall be
applicable and enforced within the city's jurisdiction.
   Adopted this 10th day of September, 2015.      City of Southport
                     By: /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
AGENDA
4.   Budget Amendment #3
Finance Director, Ms. Trexler explained the budget amendment allows the city to
create the full-time Fire Chief position and to hire a Code Enforcement Officer
for the Police Department.
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Powell to approve Budget Amendment
#3 as presented.
Discussion
Alderman Adams stated his support for the full-time Fire Chief and his
opposition to spending money for a police officer to chase dogs and cats.
Vote:   Aye – Aldermen Poole, Powell, Coring, Barnes, Humphreys
Abstain – Alderman Adams
Motion Carried 6 - 0
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1717.jpg]
Budget Amendment
Fiscal Year 2015-2016
Budget Amendment #3
WHEREAS the City of Southport desires to have a Full Time Fire Chief and to
place the Animal Control and Code enforcement in the Police Department.
WHEREAS there are sufficient funds in the Fire Department Fund Balance for a
Full Time Fire Chief’s salary for the remaining fiscal year and a transfer from
the Code Enforcement Department to the Police Department for Animal Control and
Code Enforcement officer for the remaining 9 months, and
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2015-2016 needs to be amended to
reflect the Fund Balance appropriation and a transfer between departments
necessary to carry out the use of these funds;
   BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2015-2016 shall be
amended as follows:
GENERAL FUND                              Previous
Amount   Increase      Amended
Amount                                                               
Revenues
Fund Balance Appropriation   (Fire Department)   $ 0      $ 50,500   $ 50,500
Fire Inspections and Permit Fees (10-3434-700)      $ 0      $ 10,000   $
10,000
Permit and Inspection Fees (10-3343-0000)         $ 205,000   $ (10,000)   $
195,000
Appropriation Transfers
Plan. & Code Enf. Salary (10-4350-0000)
($10,000 Fire department Salary, 9mos         $ 199,192   $ (37,750)   $
161,442
Animal Control Salary $27,750)
Plan. & Code Enf. Salary (10-4350-0700)         $ 9,960   $ ( 1,388)   $
8,572   
Plan. & Code Enf. Salary (10-4350-0900)         $ 15,350   $ ( 2,123)   $
13,227
Plan. & Code Enf. Salary (10-4350-1000)         $ 13,525   $ ( 1,886)   $
11,641
Plan. & Code Enf. Salary (10-4350-1100)         $ 42,312   $ ( 8,538)   $
33,774
Plan. & Code Enf. Salary (10-4350-1400)         $ 3,842   $ ( 880)   $ 2,962
      Total                   $ (52,565)
         Total Available Funds          $103,065
Appropriations
Fire Department – Salary (10-4340-0000)         $ 0      $ 42,750   $ 42,750
Fire Department – 401k (10-4340-0700)         $ 0      $ 2,150   $ 2,150
Fire Department – Fica (10-4340-0900)       $ 10,175 $ 3,270   $ 13,445
Fire Department – Lgers (10-4340-1000)         $ 0      $ 2,910   $ 2,910
Fire Department – Health Ins (10-4340-1100)      $ 0      $ 8,540   $ 8,540
Fire Department – Workers Comp (10-4340-1400)       $ 8,941   $ 880   $ 9,821
         Total                  $ 60,500
Police Department Salary (10-4310-0000)         $ 450,517   $ 27,750   $
478,267
Police Department Salary (10-4310-0700)         $ 22,526   $ 1,388   $ 23,914
Police Department Salary (10-4310-0900)         $ 36,711   $ 2,123   $ 38,834
Police Department Salary (10-4310-1000)         $ 32,212   $ 1,886   $ 34,098
Police Department Salary (10-4310-1100)          $ 161,062   $ 8,538   $
169,600
Police Department Salary (10-4310-1400)         $ 20,795   $ 880   $ 21,675
                           $ 42,565
            Total Appropriated Funds        $ 103,065
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, September 10,
2015   
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:   /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk      
5.   Resolution of Support for Southport-Oak Island Area Economic Development
Committee
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to adopt the Resolution
of Support for Southport-Oak Island Area Economic Development and to appoint
John Allen to the committee. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Resolution of Support For Southport Oak Island Area Economic Development
Committee
WHEREAS, the Southport-Oak Island Area Chamber of Commerce has faithfully
served the needs of the Southport-Oak Island area for over 35 years, including
Bald Head Island, Boiling Spring Lakes, Bolivia, Caswell Beach, Oak Island, St.
James, Southport, Sunset Harbor and Supply; and
WHEREAS, the Southport-Oak Island Area Chamber of Commerce is a viable,
thriving organization, providing effective leadership; and
WHEREAS, the Southport-Oak Island Area Chamber of Commerce continues to work on
issues and needs important to our area and business community; and
WHEREAS, the Southport-Oak Island Area Chamber of Commerce supports existing
small businesses in the area with programs such as Business Connections,
Business Networking After Hours, Shop Small Saturday, Gift Local and
recognitions such as the Golden Pineapple Awards, Small Business Person of the
Year and Small Business Customer Service of the Year; and
WHEREAS, the Southport-Oak Island Chamber of Commerce remains committed to
promote businesses in the Southport-Oak Island and surrounding areas; and
WHEREAS, the goal of the Southport –Oak Island Area Chamber of Commerce is to
remain responsive to the unique opportunities and challenges of its service
area and Brunswick County as the Southport-Oak Island Area Chamber of Commerce;
and
WHEREAS, the Southport Oak Island area has seen tremendous population growth as
indicated from the U.S. Census Bureau which indicates the Town of Oak Island
realized a 6% growth in its population from 2010-2013, with the State of North
Carolina only showing 3% growth, and at the same time a recent traffic count
showed an average of 30,000 vehicles a day on Rt 211 west of Rt 87 – second
highest in Brunswick County; and
WHEREAS, the Southport-Oak Island Area Chamber of Commerce recognizes a need
for industrial, commercial and small business recruitment efforts in the
Southport Oak Island area to support this growing population; and
WHEREAS, in the past there has not been an aggressive business and industry
recruitment effort for the Southport Oak Island area;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, City of Southport supports the Southport-Oak
Island Area Chamber of Commerce in its creation of the Southport Oak Island
Area Economic Development Committee and further resolves to recognize them as
the lead support agency in promoting industry and business recruitment in our
local community and agrees to appoint a representative to the committee.
This the 10th day of September, 2015
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard,
Mayor                                                                     
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
6.   Beautification Committee Report; Wreath Campaign & Christmas Lights
Project
Beautification Committee Chair, Shirley Snyder, introduced the committee
members in attendance. She announced that 60 sailboat Christmas wreaths had
been paid for and were ready for delivery. She indicated that locations had
been identified for placement of the wreaths. She announced that the tree
lighting ceremony would be held Friday, November 27, 6:00 p.m. followed by a
party in the Community Building to celebrate the donors. She reported that Part
3 of the Christmas Lights Project is underway and she had met with the Parks
and Recreation Director. She stated the Beautification Committee would be
working with Chief Drew on a firefighter memorial park on E. Nash Street at the
former location of the fire station.
7.   Caswell Avenue Community Garden
   Alderman Poole referenced the project report submitted by Michelle Cousineau
Spencer, NC Cooperative Extension Chair, provided in the agenda packet and she
motioned, second by Alderman Powell for the City of Southport to serve as
successor for the Caswell Avenue Community Garden. Unanimous vote; motion
carried.
8.   Waterfront Steering Committee Presentation
   Mr. Tommy Harrelson, Chair, Waterfront Steering Committee, thanked the Board
for the trust they placed in the committee. He stated the committee worked hard
and well with each other, the consultants and the public. He thanked the
members of the Beautification Committee that participated and he praised the
assistance of city staffers John Allen, Gayle Jones and the city manager. Mr.
Harrelson expressed appreciation for the use of the former visitor center and
the valuable news coverage provided by Jason Tyson of the State Port Pilot. Mr.
Harrelson stated there were many ideas shared at the public meetings and the
consultants were careful capturing them. He indicated the committee endorsed
living shorelines and placing erosion control as the top priority of the
project. He added that the committee recommends Plan D which they feel offers
the least change and protects the view. He stated that the committee recommends
improvements in green areas, a limited number of trees, a maritime memorial
funded with donations and adoption of the erosion control measures.
   Mr. Mark Arcuri, P.E., Criser Troutman Tanner, gave a PowerPoint
presentation detailing the Southport Waterfront Project. He described the
recommendations for shoreline stabilization at six (6) identified segments, and
park improvements to the area bordered by S. Lord Street and S. Atlantic Avenue
and between Bay Street and the water. He explained the cost breakdown of the
project and apprised the Board of funding options through grant agencies.
   Mayor Howard thanked the Waterfront Steering Committee for the thorough job
they performed, noting that the Board would likely call upon them again as the
process continues.
9.   Discussion About Signage for the City Park at the Foot of Atlantic Avenue
   Alderman Coring recommended putting a sign at the park at the foot of
Atlantic Avenue so that the public would recognize it as a city park. He
suggested naming the park after Joshua Potts.
   Board Consensus for Alderman Coring and the city manager to work together to
determine an appropriate sign for the park.
11.   Proposed Resurfacing of City Streets with Powell Bill Funds
   Mr. Allen explained a recommendation from staff for resurfacing city streets
with Powell Bill funds. He stated it is anticipated the city will receive
additional funds and can determine additional streets for resurfacing in the
Spring of 2016.
STREET            SPAN            FOOTAGE      COST
Yacht Basin Drive*      W. Moore St. to W. Bay St.       333         $ 9,620.37
Fodale Avenue         E. Moore St. to River Dr.          450         $
13,000.50
S. Lord Street         W. Bay St. to W. Moore St. (west side only)
391         $ 11,295.99
N. Lord Street         W. 8th St. to W. Leonard St.       1,000         $
28,890.00
N. Lord Street         W. St. George St. to W. Leonard St.    420         $
12,133.80
W. Bay Street         S. Howe St. to S. Lord St.          388         $
11,209.32
N. Caswell Avenue      W. Owens St. to Kids World (mid block)    244         $
7,049.16
Davis Street         E. Nash St. to E. Moore St.       375         $ 10,833.75
E. Owens Street         N. Howe St. to N. Atlantic Ave.       300         $
8,667.00
W. Bay Street         S. Caswell St. to Yacht Basin Dr.       450         $
13,000.50
                           4,351         $125,700.39
*Pending completion of engineering study
   Alderman Adams expressed his displeasure that he could not add to the
recommendation.
    Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Poole to accept the
recommended list of streets and proceed with the resurfacing. Unanimous vote;
motion carried.
12.   Appointment to Zoning Board of Adjustment
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to re-appoint Ms. Jennifer
Fontaine to the Board of Adjustment. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to adopt the resolution and
recommend to the Brunswick County Commissioners appointment of Mr. Frank
Popelars to a regular extra-territorial jurisdiction (ETJ) seat on the Board of
Adjustment. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
[Image]
RESOLUTION OF SOUTHPORT BOARD OF ALDERMEN
REQUESTING BRUNSWICK COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS TO APPOINT EXTRATERRITORIAL
MEMBER TO THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT PURSUANT TO G.S. 160A-362
WHEREAS, one regular extraterritorial member of the City of Southport Board of
Adjustment has resigned and the term has expired; and
WHEREAS,  one member who has been serving in an extraterritorial alternate
capacity desires to be appointed to a regular position; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen desires that the Brunswick County Board of
Commissioners reappoint said extraterritorial member as expeditiously as
possible in order to assure the efficient functioning of said Board;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT HEREBY RESOLVED, that the City of Southport Board of
Aldermen hereby request that the Brunswick County Board of Commissioners
reappoint the following person to said position:
   Regular:   Frank Popelars
ADOPTED,  this the 10th day of September, 2015.
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
13.   Discussion on Merging the Fire Department and Rescue Squad
   Mayor Howard reported that the bids are out for the renovation of the Rescue
Squad facility and is estimated to be $330,000. He pointed out that the
Emergency Services Committee, comprised of Alderman Poole, Alderman Coring,
Chief Drew, Chief Johnson and Chief Smith, have worked diligently over the last
several years to bring all departments together. Mayor Howard stated his
opinion that it is sensible to consider the feasibility and advisability of
merging fire and rescue. Mayor Howard asked Alderman Coring to comment on the
issue.
Alderman Coring suggested that the Emergency Services Committee meet to
evaluate the issue further. He stated that the chiefs of both fire and rescue
have been working with the Committee. He indicated he believes a merger would
be a good partnership, cost effective, would upgrade overall response time and
improve customer service. He pointed out that many of the rescue squad
personnel hold firefighter certifications.
Alderman Poole concurred with Alderman Coring, and as Chair of the Emergency
Services Committee, she will schedule and post a meeting.
Alderman Adams urged caution funding a renovation to the Rescue Squad
Headquarters on E. Nash Street. He shared his opinion that money could be
better spent constructing a new building at a more central location.
Alderman Powell endorsed the recommendation for the Emergency Services
Committee to discuss the feasibility of merging the two departments and scaling
back the renovation to the current Rescue Squad facility.
Chief Drew thanked the Board for the opportunity to explore merging the Fire
Department and Rescue Squad. He expressed his belief that if an organization is
not changing and evolving, it is not growing. He stated he looks forward to
holding discussions with the Rescue Squad and coming up with solutions and
ideas.
Chief Johnson agreed with Chief Drew and stated his belief that the merger
would be a benefit to the citizens and departments.
Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Powell to direct the Emergency
Services Committee to meet and report back to the Board of Aldermen at their
October regular meeting on merging the Fire and Rescue Department. Unanimous
vote; motion carried.
14.   Consideration of a Proposal from Brunswick Community College
Mayor Howard announced that the City has been asked to join with Brunswick
Community College and the University of North Carolina School of Government to
consider effective community uses for the 9,000 square feet of unused space in
the Brunswick Community College Lord Street Annex.
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to join with Brunswick
Community College in meeting with the School of Government on Thursday,
September 17, 3:30 p.m. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Board Comments
Mayor Howard remarked about the Brunswick County Commissioners announcement to
take over maintenance and operation of Southport’s water and sewer systems. He
stated his surprise at the announcement noting that the cost suggested by the
County appears more expensive than what the city can do in house. He also
pointed out that if the Board considered a contractual arrangement, the city
employees could not be displaced from their jobs. He expressed appreciation for
the Commissioners taking a look at a possible partnership and he looked forward
to reviewing the proposal.
Mayor Howard addressed comments made concerning the recent reorganization of
city staff. He stated the city manager is charged with the responsibility of
carrying out the city’s work and he chose to divide his departments into five
(5) groups: Public Safety, Finance, Public Works, Parks & Recreation,
Administration and to appoint group leaders. Mayor Howard pointed out that no
departments had been eliminated, no department head positions were eliminated,
and there were no demotions and no salary adjustments. He stated his support
for the city manager and he praised the job city staff performs.
Alderman Coring stated his concerns about the reorganization, specifically the
Human Resources/Payroll Department answering to the City Clerk and the
additional responsibilities of a Public Safety Director. He emphasized caution
about how the reorganization is presented and the need to assure the public has
a clear understanding of it.
Mayor Howard contested the letter Ms. Bray presented regarding the financial
condition of the City. He stated the City is in a solid financial position and
carries a fund balance. He noted that the audit is underway and he expressed
confidence that the audit will show that Ms. Bray’s accusations and assertions
are unfounded.
The Clerk was directed to provide dates to the Board for a workshop to discuss
the waterfront plans.
Adjournment – 8:14 p.m.
Alderman Poole moved to adjourn the meeting, second by Alderman Powell.
 Unanimous vote; motion carried.
                        /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
SEPTEMBER 17, 2015
SPECIAL SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN           SPECIAL SESSION MINUTES
BRUNSWICK COMMUNITY COLLEGE SEPTEMBER 17, 2015
BOLIVIA, N.C.               3:30 P.M
PRESENT:         Mayor Robert D. Howard
            Aldermen Nelson Adams, Emily Humphreys, Jim Powell,
            Todd Coring, Buddy Barnes
STAFF PRESENT:      City Manager Kerry McDuffie
         City Clerk Michele Windham
   Mayor Howard and Aldermen met with members of the Brunswick Community
College Board of Trustees to hear a presentation from Mr. Rory Dowling, a
project manager with the University of North Carolina School of Government’s
Development Finance Initiative (DFI). Mr. Dowling explained that the mission of
DFI is to partner with North Carolina municipalities to attract private
investors for transformation projects.
   Mr. Dowling gave a detailed presentation of the process for redevelopment of
the unrenovated portion of the Brunswick Community College satellite campus on
N. Lord Street and on the former site of the Brunswick County Training School,
and the adjoining gymnasium that the college deeded to Southport. He explained
the 4-prongs of the pre-development methodology: site analysis, market
analysis, public proposal and financial feasibility. Mr. Dowling stated the
goal is to attract a private developer, maximize public interest but minimize
public investment.
   Responding to a question from Dr. Suzanne Adams, Brunswick Community College
President, Mayor Howard stated the city’s current plans for the gym is to make
it available to the community as a multi-use facility. He pointed out that the
gym has historical value for the citizens of Southport.
   Mr. Dowling noted the area is zoned residential and he indicated the
potential to rezone the area to mixed use to accommodate other options, such as
a neighborhood grocery, would need to be considered by the Southport Planning
Board and Board of Aldermen.
   Concerns about the condition of the building were raised and it’s potential
for development.
   Mr. Dowling advised that the pre-development process would take an estimated
nine months and the fee for the study would be $27,000.
   Alderman Adams concurred with Mayor Howard’s statements and he thanked the
college for imparting the city with the opportunity to bring the gym back for
recreational uses by the community.
                        /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
SEPTEMBER 29, 2015
SPECIAL SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  SPECIAL SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING SEPTEMBER 29, 2015
223 E. BAY STREET  4:00 P.M
 
PRESENT:         Mayor Robert D. Howard
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Nelson Adams, Emily Humphreys,
            Jim Powell, Todd Coring, Buddy Barnes
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   John Allen, Community Development Specialist
   Waterfront Steering Committee Members: Tommy Harrelson,
   Frank Marchetti, Paul Swenson, Bill Duke, Harley Lemons
A)   Call to Order – 4:00 p.m.
   Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 4:00 p.m. and stated the purpose
of the meeting was to discuss the riverfront restoration.
B)   Invocation
   Alderman Barnes welcomed everyone and led the gathering in the Lord’s
Prayer.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Barnes led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Announcements
   Mayor Howard discussed the significant tidal flooding experienced September
26-27, 2015 in the Yacht Basin area. He pointed out that the Board had engaged
Norris & Tunstall Consulting Engineers to submit proposals for drainage
improvements at Davis Street, Yacht Basin Drive, Bay Street and Moore Street.
He discussed the planned widening of the 300 block of W. Moore Street and
expressed his hope the widening and drainage improvements could be completed
simultaneously. He advised that the City Manager and staff would provide
information for the October 8 regular Board meeting.
   Mayor Howard announced that the Board met with Brunswick Community College
officials to hear a presentation from the School of Government regarding the
City joining the College in development of the Lord Street facility. He pointed
out that the School of Government only works through municipalities and the
College would like Southport to support the endeavor. He stated that
consideration of the request would be placed on the October 8 regular meeting
agenda.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to table consideration
of the operating and maintenance (O&M) proposal of the City’s water and sewer
systems from Brunswick County until such time the City can resolve the sewer
availability issue and transfer to the City the water service for the Rivermist
Subdivision.
   Discussion
   Alderman Adams stated his perception that the issue of an O&M proposal was
previously addressed by a consensus of the Board that the City was not
entertaining a proposal.
   Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   City Manager McDuffie announced that two (2) poles at the Atlantic Avenue
and Bay Street intersection had been knocked down and would be replaced with
one of the new style poles which would better direct light.
   Southport Waterfront Project
   Mayor Howard thanked the Waterfront Steering Committee for an outstanding
job. He guided the Board towards selection of a specific plan and establishing
priorities. He noted that the Committee recommended Plan D.
   Committee member Paul Swenson stated his personal recommendation that
erosion should be the highest priority and bulkheads with wide walkways
implemented. He cited successful bulkheads in New Bern, Beaufort, Charleston,
South Carolina and Savannah, Georgia. He also recommended preservation of the
beach from Old American Fish Company to the Bay Street pump station.
Additionally, he endorsed the living shoreline that has been successful along
Kingsley Park.
   Alderman Barnes commented that bulkheads are known to last 100 years+.
   Alderman Humphreys suggested the Board focus on erosion control.
   Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Poole to adopt Plan D as the
official city recommendation. Unanimous vote by an uplift of hands; motion
carried. 
   Mayor Howard noted that Plan D encompasses the area from American Fish to S.
Atlantic Avenue. Responding to a query from Alderman Barnes, Mayor Howard
stated that funding of shoreline erosion control on private property would have
to be considered.
   Mr. Frank Marchetti pointed out that the erosion control recommendation of
the Plan extends past Atlantic Avenue to Bonnets Creek.
   Alderman Poole agreed with Alderman Humphreys that the first priority of the
Plan should be erosion control.
    Alderman Powell agreed with Aldermen Humphreys and Poole. He stated his
opinion that North Carolina had, in recent years, built rip rap walls that have
been successful building beaches back out.
   Alderman Coring echoed the comments of fellow board members. He stated he
would like to look into the positives and negatives of additional types of
erosion control.
   City Manager McDuffie pointed out that Criser, Troutman & Tanner (CTT) is
contracted to identify funding sources. He indicated proposals to write grants
would be solicited from engineers and he would prefer to work with an
engineering group that had written similar grants.
   Mayor Howard stated his personal opinion that using an engineering firm to
write grants may not be the best approach. Alderman Powell agreed and cited the
Bay Street pump station preservation project with the Corps of Engineers. He
stated there are good grant writers that reside in Southport.
   Alderman Humphreys noted that the Plan is divided into segments and she
recommended focusing on one segment at a time for funding purposes.
   Alderman Barnes agreed, pointing out that the park cannot be built until the
erosion problem is solved. He stated support for a bulkhead with walkway.
   Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Coring for completion of the
erosion control and stabilization to be the #1 priority of the project.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Mayor Howard suggested consideration of partnering with someone that could
open doors in Washington, D.C. He further encouraged scrutiny of the city’s
budget and making prudent decisions for setting aside funding for the project.
He recommended contacting Mike McIntrye, former Congressman, to ascertain the
feasibility of him assisting the city in the endeavor. Mayor Howard emphasized
the valuable relationship Mr. McIntrye has with the Corps of Engineers.
Aldermen Powell and Poole concurred with Mayor Howard.
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to ask Mike McIntrye to
come in and make a proposal. Unanimous vote; motion carried. 
   Waterfront Steering Committee member Frank Marchetti suggested involving
Senator Bill Rabon on the State level. He pointed out that the wake created by
the Bald Head Island Ferry contributes to the shoreline erosion and he
recommended opening dialogue with Bald Head Island officials to address the
issue.
Announcement
   Alderman Poole announced that the Board would be hosting a public reception
for Mayor Howard who will be leaving office in December. The reception will
take place Thursday, October 8, 4:30 p.m. in the Community Building with the
regular Board meeting following at 6:00 p.m.
Adjournment – 4:55 p.m.
   Alderman Powell motioned to adjourn the meeting, second by Alderman Barnes.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
                        /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
                                        
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
OCTOBER 8, 2015
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING OCTOBER 8, 2015
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor Robert D. Howard
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Buddy Barnes, Emily Humphreys,
            Todd Coring, Jim Powell, Nelson Adams
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Gayle Jones, Deputy City Clerk
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney   
   Gary Smith, Public Safety Director/Police Chief
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   Tyler Johnson, Rescue Chief
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
   Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
   David Fox, Public Works Director
   Joni Schinske, Interim Tourism Director   
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   John Allen, Community Development Specialist
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
   Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
   Alderman Coring welcomed everyone and gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Coring led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Public Comment
   Ms. Shirley Wilson, 502 W. Brunswick Street, addressed the Board about the
Community Building sound system. She stated the system is inadequate and
distorts sounds which became apparent during a recent candidate forum. She
recommended installation of some type of baffling.
   Ms. Karen Mosteller, 310 N. Atlantic Avenue, thanked Mayor Howard for his
years of leadership and putting forth a forward thinking agenda while
preserving Southport’s heritage.
E)   Approval of Agenda    
   Mayor Howard requested addition of consideration of a waterfront
workshop.   
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Powell to approve the agenda as
amended.  Unanimous vote; motion carried.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Howard stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
F)   Announcements
   Mr. John Allen reported that the last two (2) old police vehicles had been
sold. He stated that $11,000 in surplus equipment had been sold during the
fiscal year.
   Alderman Barnes stated a reminder that Southport was one of the first cities
on the east coast to pass a resolution against seismic testing.
   Mayor Howard reported that the paving of Moore & Howe Streets had been
delayed. He added that the contractor had through December 31 to complete the
work.
   Mayor Howard stated that the City continues to work with Brunswick County
towards an increase in sewer capacity for Southport.
   Mayor Howard recalled the excitement and success in 1955 that came with the
opening of Military Ocean Terminal Sunny Point (MOTSU).
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to approve the Resolution of
Recognition for the 60 th Anniversary of MOTSU. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Resolution of Recognition
Military Ocean Terminal Sunny Point
Whereas, in 1950, the Department of Defense selected the remote region of
Southeastern North Carolina, known to locals as “Sunny Point”, on which to
build the largest munitions terminal in the free world, and
Whereas, On October 25, 1955 the terminal became operational, and
Whereas, the terminal was constructed as Wilmington Ammunition Loading
Terminal, then Sunny Point Army Ammunition Loading Terminal; further, Sunny
Point Army Terminal and now Military Ocean Terminal Sunny Point (MOTSU), and
Whereas, MOTSU is the home of the surface deployment and distribution command’s
596th Transportation Brigade, and
Whereas, Sunny Point fulfills the essential task of supplying munitions to the
United States Military, and
Whereas, Sunny Point is an integral part of Southport and the surrounding
communities, providing well-paying jobs for 250 people, and
Whereas, Sunny Point extends mutual aid to Southport’s Fire and Rescue
Departments, and
Whereas, Sunny Point was instrumental in re-building Southport after Hurricane
Hazel.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that Mayor Robert D. Howard and the Southport
Board of Aldermen extend abiding appreciation for outstanding contributions,
and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that we urge all citizens to join with the Southport
Board of Aldermen in honoring the 60th anniversary of Sunny Point.
Adopted this the 8th day of October 2015.
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to approve the consent
agenda. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
1.   Minutes for September 1 Special Meeting -  approved
   Minutes for September 10 Regular Meeting -  approved
   Minutes for September 17 Special Meeting - approved
Bay Street & Yacht Basin Drive
   The Board heard a conceptual plan from Phil Norris of Norris and Tunstall
Consulting Engineers for a project to improve drainage and reduce tidal
flooding in the Yacht Basin. Mr. Norris cited a previous report that identified
tide levels. He noted the normal high tide is 2.5 ft. and historical high tide
is 4.1 ft. He explained the recommended improvements would raise the street
elevation to 3.5 ft. which would improve stormwater drainage and be more
manageable than putting in culverts and catch basins. He emphasized that
private property owners would have to participate in the project. Mr. Norris
estimated the cost of the project would be $125,000.
   Mayor Howard pointed out that the Yacht Basin area is included in the
overall Waterfront Project. He stated his support for moving forward to the
design stage of the plan.
   Alderman Adams emphasized taking time to obtain a formal design that would
be presented to affected property owners and to Southport citizens.
   Alderman Barnes expressed support for the concept and pursuing more details
and costs of the different types of materials to be used.
   Asked by Mayor Howard to comment, Building Inspector, Wayne Strickland
stated the project would likely require a Coastal Area Management Act (CAMA)
major permit.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Aldermen Coring to authorize Norris &
Tunstall to prepare the design drawings, bring same back to the Board and to
contact CAMA and staff to concurrently have conversations with property owners.
Ayes:   Aldermen Powell, Coring, Poole, Barnes, Humphreys
Nay:   Alderman Adams
Motion Carried 5-1
Response to a Citizen’s Letter
   Mayor Howard reported that legal and auditing services were engaged to
address assertions and accusations of improper activities made by a former
employee.
   City Attorney Isenberg stated he had met with Menton Padgett, auditor, who
thoroughly reviewed all city budget amendments. Attorney Isenberg presented
responses to each specific allegation:
By statute the city manager has no authority to spend more money than is
approved in public hearings before the board – Generally true but only one
“public hearing” is required and that is for the Budget Ordinance. It appears
that all money spent in 2014/15 was approved by board of aldermen.
Inter-departmental transfers are limited to $ 5,000 – G.S. 159-15 provides that
“The governing board by appropriate resolution or ordinance may authorize the
budget officer to transfer moneys from one appropriation to another within the
same fund subject to such limitations and procedures as it may prescribe. Any
such transfers shall be reported to the governing board at its next regular
meeting and shall be entered in the minutes.” Our board has authorized the
manager to transfer up to $5,000 within the same fund pursuant to this
provision. If more than that is transferred there needs to be a budget
amendment first. If money is expended before the budget is amended, it is a
violation of state statutes, until the budget is amended. The pre-audit
requirement mandates review of the current budget to determine that budgeted
funds are available before an expenditure is made.
In 2015 McDuffie obligated the city to more than $ 150,000.00 outside of this
process, without hearings or budget amendments—There were budget amendments for
the expenditures approved by the board. No hearing is required for budget
amendments.
  Expenditures approved in April 2015 included $ 143,000.00 in costs incurred
many months prior –This amendment did not appropriate fund balances. It
decreased 3 line items within the water fund and appropriated these amounts
within the water fund. It did not increase the expenses of the water fund. .
There were some improvements that were budgeted in the prior year that did not
get completed. The April budget amendment re-budgeted them because there was no
budget for them in the current budget.
A June 2015 amendment added $ 170,000.00 for spending actions taken throughout
the previous year – No fund balance was used. There was an increase of 170,000
in revenues and this additional revenue was appropriated within the fund for
expenditures.
McDuffie unilaterally gutted the budget in a series of actions take away from
the public eye. He shrunk 8 departments and added a full time position and
eliminated a tourism department funded by occupancy tax. He also did not do
this in an open session and the board did not authorize the amendments – Again,
money was transferred within the fund but no additional money was appropriated.
Both the city charter and GS 160A-148 empower the city manager to supervise the
administration of all departments. Those personnel actions do not have to be
approved in a public meeting. The board did approve the additional full time
position at its’ special meeting and did in fact approve the necessary budget
amendments at its next regular meeting.
Aldermen Barnes, Poole, Humphreys and Mayor Howard expressed their confidence
in the job performance of the City Manager.
City Manager McDuffie thanked the Board for their continued support.
2.   Emergency Services Committee Report; Fire & Rescue Merger
Alderman Poole reported that the Emergency Services Committee consisting of
herself, Alderman Coring, Fire Chief Drew, Rescue Chief Johnson, Public Safety
Director/Police Chief Smith and the City Manager, had met and reached a
recommendation for the merger of the Fire Department and Rescue Squad.
Alderman Coring outlined the proposal:
∙   Rescue Squad would dissolve and their Emergency Medical Services function
would become a division of the Southport Fire Department.
∙   One department would be established with a fire division and an EMS
division.
∙   Current members of Rescue would transfer over to Fire Department.
∙   Headquarters at 1011 N. Howe Street would be the main station of operation.
∙   A full-time Deputy Chief position would be established to supervise the EMS
division.
∙   The current Rescue Squad building would become a Southport Fire Department
downtown substation.
∙   Renovations to the current Rescue Squad building would be modified.
   Alderman Coring noted that the two departments worked hard through
challenges and compromises to reach the consolidation.
   Public Safety Director Smith stated his support for the merger noting that
it will enhance the services.
   Chief Drew stated the merger would be cost-effective for the citizens of
Southport and he received 100% cooperation among the members of the Fire
Department.
   Chief Johnson said the Rescue Squad membership fully supported the merger
and it would improve all aspects of rescue services.
Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Powell to accept the committee
recommendation with a November 1, 2015 effective date. Unanimous vote; motion
carried.
The Mayor directed the committee and City Manager to work with the City
Attorney to assure the ordinances and by-laws are in compliance with State
statutes.
Alderman Poole stated the committee also discussed the potential for the animal
control function to be assumed by Brunswick County. Chief Smith was charged
with communicating with the County on the issue and reporting back.
3.   Consideration of Bids for Renovation of EMS Building
   City Manager McDuffie reported that the low bid of $430,000 for renovation
of the EMS building was reasonable. Due to action taken by the Board to merge
Fire and Rescue Departments, City Manager McDuffie requested permission to
decrease the scope of the renovation.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Poole to reject all bids.
Unanimous vote; motion carried . 
4.   Budget Amendment #4; Electrical Collars
   City Manager McDuffie explained that Budget Amendment #4 is for purchase of
remote disconnect electrical collars to enable citizens to purchase prepaid
electricity. He indicated the collars would be placed on meters of customers
requesting the service and on customers that are repeatedly cut off for non-
payment.
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Poole to approve Budget Amendment
#4. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1735_855x840.jpg]
 
Budget Amendment
Fiscal Year 2015-2016
Budget Amendment #4
   WHEREAS the City of Southport desires to purchase remote disconnect collars
to enable citizens to purchase prepaid electricity.
WHEREAS there are sufficient funds in the line item Capital Purchases
Equipment; and
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2015-2016 needs to be amended to
reflect the transfer necessary to carry out this use of these funds;
   BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2015-2016 shall be
amended as follows:
ELECTRIC FUND                        Increase/(Decrease)   
Capital Outlay - Equipment
30-7210-5100               $ 200,000   
Capital Outlay - Facilities
30-7210-6001               $(200,000)   
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, October 8, 2015
                        /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor      
/s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk   
5.   Budget Amendment #5; Police
   City Manager McDuffie explained that Budget Amendment #5 is for $36,000 of
available funds from the Police Department lieutenant position vacated when
that position was promoted to Chief. He stated the funds will go towards
purchase of a radar trailer and other equipment. He indicated that the
lieutenant position would be filled in the spring.
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Poole to approve Budget Amendment
#5. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1738_855x840.jpg]
 
Budget Amendment
Fiscal Year 2015-2016
Budget Amendment #5
WHEREAS the City of Southport desires to upgrade equipment for the Police
department,
WHEREAS there are sufficient funds in Salaries and benefits from a six month
vacant Lieutenant position; and
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2015-2016 needs to be amended to
reflect the transfer necessary to carry out the use of these funds;
   BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2015-2016 shall be
amended as follows:
Police Department                        Increase/(Decrease)    
10-4310-0000               $ (26,000)
10-4310-0700               $ ( 1,300)
10-4310-0900               $ ( 1,989)
10-4310-1000               $ ( 1,820)
10-4310-1100               $ ( 4,891)
Capital Outlay Equipment
10-4310-5100               $ 36,000
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, October 8,
2015               
                        /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor   
/s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
6.   Budget Amendment #7; Fire & Rescue Merger
City Manager McDuffie explained that Budget Amendment #7 was to fund the new
EMS position in the Fire Department for the remainder of the budget year.
Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Poole to approve Budget Amendment
# 7. Unanimous vote; motion carried .
Budget Amendment
Fiscal Year 2015-2016
Budget Amendment #7
   WHEREAS the City of Southport desires to have a Full Time Deputy Chief of
EMS Division to enhance public safety and emergency responses; and
   WHEREAS there are funds in Fire Response fees, general fund discretionary
funds of the Board and Administration and EMS Volunteer fees for a Full Time
EMS Deputy Chief’s salary for the remaining 8 months of this fiscal year; and
   WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2015-2016 needs to be amended
to reflect the appropriations and transfer of funds between departments
necessary to carry out the use of these funds;
   BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2015-2016 shall be
amended as follows:
GENERAL FUND
Appropriations                   Increase/(Decrease)
Fire Department Fees (10-3434-0400)          $ 9,600 
Total Appropriation Funds             $ 9,600 
Expenditures (8 months)
EMS Dept. Salary (10-4310-0000)             $ 27,500
EMS Dept.. Salary (10-4310-0700)             $ 1,375
EMS Dept.. Salary (10-4310-0900)             $ 2,105
EMS Dept.. Salary (10-4310-1000)             $ 1,870
EMS Dept.. Salary (10-4310-1100)             $ 7,600
EMS Dept.. Salary (10-4350-1400)             $ 470 
                     $ 40,920
      Total Increases expenditures        40,920
Transfers
EMS Part Time Employee (10-4370-0200)          $ ( 1,320)
Volunteer Fees (10-4370-0201)             $(10,000)
Board Discretionary (10-4110-9700)          $(10,000)
Admin Discretionary (10-4120-9700)          $(10,000) 
      Total Decreases expenditures       $(31,320)
Total Expenditure                $ 9,600
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, October 8, 2015
                        /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
/s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
7.   Board Setting Powell Bill Fund Priorities
Mr. Allen provided the Board with a listing of projects eligible for Powell
Bill funding and options for completing the projects:
Project:   Resurfacing of city streets         $ 125,000
   Davis Street drainage improvements   $ 40,000
   Yacht Basin Drive improvements      $ 125,000
   Moore Street widening         $ 6,500
   ADA improvements to sidewalks at
    Moore Street & Caswell Avenue      $ 11,000                              
Total $ 307,500
Mr. Allen reported that the city currently has approximately $100,000 in
unallocated Powell Bill funds and receipt of another $100,000 is expected
during the fiscal year.
Option 1
Eliminate the Davis Street project, the Moore Street widening and the sidewalk
improvements at Caswell and Moore to save $57,500. We would cancel the purchase
of a new dump truck, saving $41,500 in the general fund (one-half the cost of
the truck) and would appropriate $9,000 in extra funds that have been realized
from the sale of surplus property. When added to Powell Bill Funds, sufficient
funding would be available for the resurfacing work and the Yacht Basin Drive
project.
Option 2
Complete all the projects through an assessment on the adjoining property
owners. The assessment would bring in $62,500 for the Yacht Basin project, and
$10,000 for Davis Street. Combined with the additional funds described in
Option 1, funding would be available to complete all projects.
Option 3
Eliminate the work on Yacht Basin Drive, saving $125,000, and funding the rest
of the work entirely with Powell Bill funds.
Option 4
Complete all projects using Powell Bill Funds ($200,000) and finance the
$107,500 gap, paid back with future Powell Bill Funding. This option may not be
desirable due to the cost of borrowing and the need to obtain LGC approval.
Option 5
Complete all the projects using funding as described in Option 1, and use
approximately $65,000 in fund balance to make up the difference. The city’s
current unallocated fund balance above the required 8% of revenues is $650,000.
Alderman Adams questioned the potential change in priorities, the rush to pave
the Yacht Basin and spending money before it is received.
Mayor Howard pointed out that the Board had previously made commitments to pave
the streets and make drainage improvements to Davis Street.
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to authorize funding of the
street paving, Davis Street drainage improvements and to defer consideration of
the Yacht Basin Drive improvements until sufficient information is received and
affected property owners are contacted. Unanimous vote; motion carried. 
8.   Consideration of Engineering Agreement for Davis Street
Mr. Allen explained the proposal submitted by Norris & Tunstall Consulting
Engineers P.C. for civil engineering services for a project design to address
drainage issues on Davis Street. Mr. Allen stated the preferred option to
address the flooding is to put in swale and culverts.
Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Powell to approve a contract with
Norris & Tunstall Consulting Engineers, P.C. in the amount of $ 9,275 for
professional civil engineering services: survey, design, bidding & limited
construction observation for Davis Street drainage improvements. Unanimous
vote; motion carried. (Contract on file in the Clerk’s Office)
9.   Ordinance Amending the City of Southport Code of Ordinances, Chapter 10,
Article V. Taxicabs
Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to amend Chapter 10,
Article V. Taxicabs, of the City of Southport Code of Ordinances. Unanimous
vote; motion carried.
BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport that Chapter
10, Article V, of the Code of Ordinances is hereby amended to read as follows:
Sec. 10-111. Definitions.
The following definitions apply in this article:
(a)   Driver. A person who actually drives or operates a vehicle for hire on
the streets or roads within the City of Southport.
(b)   Limousine. A for-hire motor vehicle engaged in the on-call or on-demand
business of carrying and transporting people but does not solicit passengers
indiscriminately between points along streets and highways. The driver or
operator may not leave the vehicle for the purpose of soliciting passengers.
(c)   Taxicab. Any motor vehicle seating fifteen (15) or fewer passengers,
other than a limousine, operated upon any street or highway within the city on
call or on demand, accepting or soliciting passengers indiscriminately for hire
between such points along streets or highways as may be directed by the
passenger so being transported.which is or is intended to be used for the
purpose of carrying or transporting or conveying one or more persons from one
place to another, for which services a charge or fee is made or accepted. Any
taxicab parked or traveling on the streets of the city shall be subject to the
provisions of this article.
Sec. 10-112. Unlawful to operate without certificate.
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a taxicab engage in the business
of operating a taxicab or taxicab business upon and over the streets of the
city without first having applied for and secured from the board of aldermen a
certificate of convenience and necessity as hereinafter set forth.
Sec. 10-113. Application required.
Every person desiring to operate a taxicab business upon and over the streets
of the city must hold a certificate of convenience and necessity issued by the
City. Each person shall file on forms supplied by the city clerk an application
for certificate of convenience and necessity which shall be accompanied by the
fee adopted by the board of aldermen.
Sec. 10-114. Issuance of certificates.
The board of aldermen shall have power, and it will be its duty, to order
certain certificates of convenience and necessity issued under this article, or
refuse to issue certain such certificates, or to issue certificates for partial
exercise only of the rights granted herein, only such certificate shall be
issued under such terms and conditions as in its judgment the public
convenience and necessity may require.
Sec. 10-115. Duration of certificate.
A certificate shall constitute a franchise from the city for the operation of
taxicabs a taxicab business within the city subject to the provisions of this
article for one (1) year, unless a shorter period of time is specified in the
certificate. Applications for renewal shall be filed annually and hearing
conducted as herein provided. but if there have been no formal written
complaints from the public received during the previous year regarding the
certificate holder, and with the provision of certificates of insurance,
drivers’ licenses and other required elements, a renewed certificate may be
issued by the city manager for the same period as originally issued. Should any
formal written complaints have been received, the renewal shall follow the same
process as an original application, including public notice and hearing.
Sec. 10-116. Determination of convenience and necessity.
(a) In determining whether the public convenience and necessity require the
franchising of a taxicab, the board of aldermen shall, among other things, take
into consideration the following factors:
(1)    Whether or not the public convenience and necessity require such
proposed or will be favorably affected by additional taxicab service within the
city.
(2)    The financial responsibility of the applicant and the likelihood of the
proposed service being permanent responsible and satisfactory.
(3)    The number and condition of equipment.
(4)   The schedule of proposed rates, if required by the board, to be charged.
(5)   The number of taxicabs now operated and the demand for increased service,
if any, and whether or not the safe use of the streets by the public, both
vehicular and pedestrian, will be preserved and whether or not adequate
provision has been made for off-street parking of such taxicabs.
(6)    The experience of applicant in the taxicab business.
(7)    Such other relative facts as may be deemed necessary and advisable.
(b) Before making any decision with respect to the issuance of a certificate of
convenience and necessity, the board, or a committee thereof appointed by the
board, shall make a full and complete investigation of all facts, if it so
desires, subpoena witnesses and utilize the services of the chief of police or
any other officer or employee of the city.
Sec. 10-117. Insurance.
   No certificate of public convenience and necessity shall be issued or
continue in effect unless (i) there is in full force and effect common carrier
insurance, if available, and if not, automobile liability insurance for all
vehicles used in the taxicab business in the minimum amount required by North
Carolina law, and (ii) a certificate of insurance is on file with the city
clerk. If the automobile insurance expires without a new certificate being
filed with the city clerk, the city clerk shall notify the Chief of Police and
the holder’s certificate shall be immediately null and void.
Sec.10·118. Hearing, notices.
Each application for a certificate of convenience and necessity under this
article shall be scheduled for a hearing not later than forty-five (45) days
after the same is filed, and the applicant shall be notified by the city clerk
by mail to the business address set forth in the application of the date and
time of such hearing, such notification to be sent at least ten (10) days
before the date set for the hearing. The city clerk shall also, within the same
time, notify all persons who at the time hold certificates of convenience and
necessity for the operation of taxicabs within the municipality, of the date
and time for such hearing and the name of the applicant. In addition, the city
clerk shall cause to be published at least once in a newspaper of general
circulation at least ten (10) days before the hearing a notice setting forth
the name of the applicant and the date and time of hearing. The cost of such
publication shall be paid by the applicant.
Sec.10·119. Burden of proof.
The burden of proof shall be upon the applicant to establish the existence of
public convenience and necessity for the operation of the taxicab business
specified in his application, and all other facts required for the granting of
a certificate.
Sec. 10·120. Failure to begin operations.
If a certificate is granted under this article to an applicant, and such
applicant shall fail, in accordance with the provisions of the certificate, to
begin operations within sixty (60) days after the date of such certificate,
then such certificate shall become null and void, and no refund of any amount
paid by the applicant will be made by the city.
Sec. 10·121. Transfer.
A certificate granted under this article is not transferable. without the
consent and approval of the board of aldermen. Applications for a permit to
transfer shall be filed in the same manner as an application for a certificate
of convenience and necessity. The proceedings upon such application for
transfer shall be the same as those prescribed for the issuance of a
certificate, except that the question of public convenience and necessity need
not be proved.

Sec. 10-122. Revocation of certificate.
(a) The board of aldermen may at any time after a public hearing revoke any
certificate of convenience and necessity issued by authority of this article
for any one (1) or more of the following causes:
   (1)    Failure to operate the taxicab specified in the certificate in such
manner as to serve the public adequately and efficiently.
   (2)    Failure to maintain motor equipment the taxicabs in good repair.
   (3)    Failure to carry liability insurance or bond as required by law or
failure to file proof of financial responsibility with the city clerk.
   (4)   Failure to pay to the city the current taxes or license fees imposed
upon such taxicabs.
   (5)    Repeated and persistent violation by the holder or taxicab drivers of
traffic ordinances or state laws relating to alcoholic beverages or
prostitution.
   (6)    Failure to report accidents within 24 hours from the time of
occurrence.
   (7)    Willful failure to comply with any provision of this article or other
ordinances or state laws relating to the operation of taxicabs, whether such
ordinances and laws be now in force or hereafter enacted into ordinances and
into laws.
   (8)   Making any false or erroneous statement with reference to (i) the
ownership of the taxicabs or the names of those financially interested therein,
(ii) the name of the person in charge of the business, or (iii) the application
for the certificate.
       (9) Employment of any driver whose license has been suspended or revoked
within 3 years prior to the time of his employment.
      (10) The employment of a driver who shall not have a driver’s permit
issued by the city.
      (11) Failure to comply with any provision of this article or other state
or federal law relating to the operation of taxicabs.
(b) No certificate shall be revoked until the owner has had at least five (5)
days' notice by personal service or registered mail of the charges against him,
and of the time and place of the hearing. If, after the hearing, it is found
that the owner is guilty of one (1) or more of the offenses listed herein, the
board shall have the power to revoke the certificate, or to condition a non-
revocation upon compliance of its order within any time fixed by it.
Sec. 10-123. Substitution of vehicles.
The person to whom a certificate has been issued under this article may, by
proper endorsement thereon by the city clerk substitute another vehicle for the
vehicle for which certificate was granted. In such instance, the liability
insurance or bonds shall also be transferred to such substitute vehicle.
Sec. 10-124. Number of certificates limited.
The board of aldermen reserves the right to issue only one (1) such certificate
to anyone (1) person or entity, and the person or entity holding such
certificate shall be required to operate his taxicab business himself and shall
have no power or authority by virtue of his certificate to delegate the
operation of such taxicab business to any person.
Sec. 10-125. Driver’s Permit.
   (a) No person shall transport passengers in a taxi or other vehicle for hire
(except limousine) within the City of Southport unless such person shall have
first applied for and secured a driver’s permit from the Chief of Police or his
designee. Permits shall be valid for one year from the date of issuance.
Renewal applications must be submitted not less than 30 days prior to
expiration of each annual permit. All permits not presented for renewal in
accordance with this section shall become null and void.
   (b) Each application for a driving permit hereunder shall be on a form
prescribed by the city and shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable fee payable
to the City to defray the costs of processing the application. It shall
contain:
(1)    the applicant's name, address, age, and date of birth;
(2)    the applicant’s sex, weight, height, race, color of hair and eyes, and
description of tattoos;
(3)    the length of time the applicant has lived in the city and state and
whether or not the applicant is a citizen of the United States. Non-citizens
must provide a valid alien registration card;
(4)    the applicant’s employment for the previous 5 years and his or her
experience in driving taxicabs;
(5)    the name of the applicant’s prospective employer;
(6)   the number and date of issuance of the applicant’s North Carolina’s
driver’s license;
(7)   A list of all places where he or she has resided in the previous 10
years;
(8)   such other information as the Chief of Police or his designee may
require.
(c) Upon filing of an application for a permit, the applicant shall provide two
passport-sized photographs showing the applicant's face and shall proceed to
the Brunswick County Sheriff’s Office for taking of fingerprints and a
photograph. The photograph and fingerprinting are required for completion of
the application process.
(d) Any false statement of material fact made in an application for a permit
shall invalidate the permit issued thereon, and it shall be unlawful for any
applicant knowingly to make any such false statement.
Sec. 10-126. Investigation.
   The applicant's criminal history shall be investigated by the Chief of
Police or his designee prior to the issuance of a permit. Pursuant to G.S.
160A-304(a), The Department of Public Safety may provide a criminal record
check to the city for a person who has applied for a license or permit through
the city. The city shall provide to the Department of Public Safety, along with
the request, the fingerprints of the applicant, any additional information
required by the Department of Public Safety, and a form signed by the applicant
consenting to the check of the criminal record and to the use of the
fingerprints and other identifying information required by the State or
national repositories. The applicant's fingerprints shall be forwarded to the
State Bureau of Investigation for a search of the State's criminal history
record file, and the State Bureau of Investigation shall forward a set of the
fingerprints to the Federal Bureau of Investigation for a national criminal
history check. The city shall keep all information pursuant to this subsection
privileged, in accordance with applicable State law and federal guidelines, and
the information shall be confidential and shall not be a public record under
Chapter 132 of the General Statutes.
Sec. 10-127. Denial of Permit.
    The following factors shall be deemed sufficient grounds for refusing to
issue a permit or for revoking a permit already issued:
(1)    Conviction of a felony against this State, or conviction of any offense
against another state which would have been a felony if committed in this
State;
(2) Violation of any federal or State law relating to the use, possession, or
sale of alcoholic beverages or narcotic or barbiturate drugs;
(3) Addiction to or habitual use of alcoholic beverages or narcotic or
barbiturate drugs;
(4) Violation of any federal or State law relating to prostitution;
(5) Noncitizenship in the United States;
(6) Habitual violation of traffic laws or ordinances.
(7)   Conviction of a DWI/DUI when the actual date of offense was within five
years of the application.
(8)   Conviction of more than one careless and reckless driving offense.    
(9)   Conviction of any offense involving the driving of an automobile
resulting in death to any person.
(10)   Conviction of any offense which would require the applicant to be
registered as a sex offender.
(11)   Failure to pay the fees set forth herein for processing the application.
(12)   Suspension of a state driver’s license within 5 years of the application
filing.
(13)   False statement in the application and supporting documents.
Sec. 10-128. Revocation of driver’s permit.
A driver’s permit may be revoked by the Chief of Police or his designee for any
reason which would have been sufficient for refusing to issue a permit.
Sec. 10-129. Display of permit.
The driver of every vehicle for hire shall at all times while operating such
vehicle for hire, prominently post and display in such vehicle for hire, so as
to be visible to the passengers therein, the issued permit to drive a vehicle
for hire along with a photograph of the permit holder.
Sec. 10-130. Appeal.
Any person who is denied a permit or whose driver’s permit is revoked by the
Chief of Police or his designee may appeal such decision to the city manager
provided that he or she files with the city clerk a written notice of appeal
within 10 days following receipt of notice of the decision. The written notice
of appeal must include the appellant’s name, phone number, driver’s license
number, driver’s permit number if issued and basis for the appeal. Upon receipt
of a proper notice of appeal, the city manager shall schedule a hearing to be
held not more than 15 calendar days from the receipt thereof. Appellant may be
represented by an attorney provided that he or she gives the city clerk 5 days’
notice prior to the hearing of his or her intent to do so. The city manager
shall notify the appellant of his decision either by personal delivery or
certified mail to the address furnished by applicant within 10 days from the
hearing. The decision of the city manager shall be final.
Recess – 7:40
Return to Session – 7:48
10.   Consideration of Partnering with Brunswick Community College
   Mayor Howard reported that the Board had met with Brunswick Community
College to consider partnering with the college to explore community uses for
the 9,000 square feet of unused space in the Brunswick Community College Lord
Street Annex and include the City deeded gym property in the proposed study. He
pointed out that the College wishes to proceed with the project through the
School of Government. Mayor Howard stated that the School of Government can
only act through a municipality. He asked the Board to support the Community
College project to the extent the School of Government can work with the
College via the city. Board consensus to table consideration of financial
obligation on the part of the city and to support the College partnership with
the School of Government.
11.   Presentation of Landscape Plan for Fort Johnston
   Beautification Committee Chair, Shirley Snyder presented a proposed
landscape plan for Fort Johnston that would include a variety of plantings such
as Camellia, Weeping Yaupon, Holly, Magnolia and Crape Myrtle, repair to the
rope fencing and post caps, creation of a patio sitting area, and rebuilding of
the informational kiosk. She explained that the committee is working with
partners for funding of the project. She requested approval by the Board of the
proposed plan.
   Mayor Howard pointed out that the plan would need to be submitted to State
Historic Preservation Office (SHPO) for approval.
   Alderman Barnes stated that the plants proposed are salt tolerant and plants
that were traditionally used at the time of the buildings construction. He
requested that consideration of the request be tabled until the October 26
workshop.
12.   Discussion & Beautification Committee Recommendation Christmas Wreaths &
Lights
   Ms. Snyder reported on the success of the Bring Back Our Boats Christmas
Wreath campaign, the November 27th planned celebration to thank donors, the in-
kind donations received from local businesses and Part 3 of the project. She
explained that Part 3 encompasses coordinating lights around the city to
complement the new sailboat wreaths. She presented the City Light Project
Budget detailing the income and expenses.
13.   Budget Amendment #6; Beautification Committee
Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Powell to approve Budget Amendment
# 6 to appropriate an additional $2,960.96 that was donated to the Bring Back
Our Boats Campaign. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1741_855x840.jpg]
Budget Amendment
Fiscal Year 2015-2016
Budget Amendment #6
WHEREAS the City of Southport Beautification Committee raised $2960.96 more
than the projected $30,000 raised;
WHEREAS the committee would like to spend those funds on the Christmas wreath
expenditures for the city; and
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2015-2016 needs to be amended to
reflect the appropriation of the funds to cover the additional expenditures;
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2015-2016 shall be
amended as follows:
General Fund                        Increase/(Decrease)   
Beautification Donations
10-3833-0005            $ 2,960.96   
R/M Facilities
10-4190-3502            $ 2,960.96
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, October 8, 2015
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
/s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk   
Staff Reports – None
Board Comments
Alderman Barnes asked about the status of maintenance and painting of the
weather tower located on the Fort Johnston lawn. Parks and Recreation Director
Hemphill responded that those companies she had contacted for an inspection of
the structure were unable to get to the top of the tower due to the
deteriorating condition of the stairs. She indicated she would coordinate with
Chief Drew for use of the ladder truck to perform an inspection.
Alderman Barnes reported that the Annual Snowbird Rally would be visiting
Southport again this year, arriving Friday, November 6. He encouraged everyone
to welcome the boaters to Southport and he noted that Sail Magazine had
recently featured Southport.
Alderman Poole reported that the second annual recognition of International
Peace Day was an exceptional celebration. She publicly thanked all those who
made the event a success and staff that assisted her with last minute
preparations.
Alderman Poole announced that the Warrior Ride would be Wednesday, October
14th, 10:00 a.m. with ceremonies held at the Waterfront Park.
Recess – 7:35 p.m.
The meeting was recessed to Monday, October 26, 4:00 p.m.
                        /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
OCTOBER 26, 2015
RECESSED SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  RECESSED SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING OCTOBER 26, 2015
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor Robert D. Howard
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Emily Humphreys, Todd Coring,
            Jim Powell, Buddy Barnes
ABSENT:         Alderman Nelson Adams
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Gary Smith, Police Chief
   John Allen, Community Development Specialist
A)   Call Back to Order – 4:00 p.m.
   Mayor Howard called the October 8 recessed meeting back to order at 4:00
p.m.
B)   Invocation
   Alderman Coring welcomed everyone and gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance   
   Alderman Coring led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
AGENDA
Waterfront Improvements and Erosion Control; Mike McIntyre and Glenn Dunn,
Partner, Poyner & Spruill LLP
   Mayor Howard spoke about the Waterfront Improvement Plan D recently adopted
by the Board with emphasis on stabilization and erosion control of the
riverfront. He stated the Board recognized the process would involve multiple
regulatory agencies and pursuit of federal and state funding. He pointed out
that the Board had voted to ask Mike McIntyre to considering working with the
city on the project.
   Mr. Mike McIntyre, former 7th District Congressman and current director of
governmental relations with law firm Poyner and Spruill LLP, which specializes
in coastal legal matters, presented a proposal for consulting services relating
to Southport’s proposed waterfront project. He talked about the numerous ways
federal government programs can assist the city in developing a financial plan
for undertaking the project, i.e. low interest loans and grants from the U.S.
Department of Agriculture Rural Development and the U.S. Department of
Transportation. Mr. McIntyre praised the proposed plan prepared by Criser
Troutman & Tanner Consulting Engineers and thanked the Board for the
opportunity to assist the City.
   Mr. McIntyre was joined by Mr. Glenn Dunn, a partner in the firm with
extensive experience in regulatory matters. Mr. Dunn outlined a variety of
state level funding options through Coastal Area Management Act (CAMA), N.C.
Parks Service, Division of Water Resources and N.C. Department of
Transportation.
   Mayor Howard made an observation that beach communities can designate a
portion of their occupancy tax for beach renourishment. He suggested pursuing,
on a State level, a similar opportunity for Southport to designate occupancy
tax funds towards riverfront renourishment and maintenance.
   Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Poole to authorize the city
manager and staff to seek a request for proposal (RFP) from Poyner and Spruill
LLP for consideration by the Board at the November regularly scheduled meeting.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Lord Street Gym Committee Report
   City Manager McDuffie gave an update on the proposed Lord Street gymnasium
renovation. He reported that the Lord Street Gym Committee met and were
awaiting a quotation to clean the metal roof trusses to determine if they are
structurally sound. Item tabled awaiting further information.
Request for Extension of Time
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Coring to grant Police Chief
Gary Smith an additional 90 days to relocate into Southport. Unanimous vote;
motion carried.
Sewer Capacity
   Mayor Howard delivered an update on an increase in sewer capacity for
Southport. He stated that he and Alderman Powell have been working with an
engineering firm and are pursuing alternatives for purchase of 1M gallons of
capacity.
Yacht Basin
   Mayor Howard reported that he and Alderman Powell had met with property
owners in the Yacht Basin area who are willing to enter into a partnership for
a project to combat tidal flooding.
   Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Poole to authorize the city
manager, Alderman Powell and Mayor Howard to negotiate a public/private
partnership contract for the project and bring back to the Board for
consideration. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
201 E. Moore Street Remodel
   City Manager McDuffie reported that Architect Stephanie Seeber is preparing
a timeline for the renovation project of 201 E. Moore Street. Mayor Howard
urged expediting the project.
Rob Gandy Boulevard
   Mayor Howard announced that officials of Capital Power’s corporate
headquarters in Canada would be in Southport December 11. He suggested that
date for the dedication of Rob Gandy Boulevard and recognition of Capital
Power.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to designate December 11
as the date of dedication of Rob Gandy Boulevard. Unanimous vote; motion
carried.
Moore & Howe Street Repaving
   Mayor Howard talked about the resurfacing of Southport’s main thoroughfares
taking place at night. He pointed out that while the nightly work is an
inconvenience and annoyance to citizens, it was a better alternative than
rerouting daytime traffic through residential neighborhoods. He thanked
Southport citizens for their patience during the repaving process.
Beautification Committee
   Alderman Barnes reported that Mary Friend of the Beautification Committee
had drawn a landscaping plan for Fort Johnston and the Committee was seeking
approval of the plan from the Board.
Recess to Fort Johnston lawn – 4:55 p.m.
   Alderman Barnes pointed out the proposed locations of plant varieties that
are consistent with the fort’s history.
Reconvene – 5:07 p.m.
   Alderman Barnes asked the newspaper to publish the proposed landscape plan
in order to get public input.
   Board consensus to table consideration of the plan until the November
regular meeting.
Board Comments
   At the request of Mayor Howard, City Manager McDuffie responded to an appeal
from a citizen regarding the expenditure of funds to pave city streets. He
explained that the funds are collected from a gas tax and can only be used for
paving, installing sidewalks and purchase of certain signs.
   Mayor Howard provided Board members with a proposal for a “Walk of Fame” at
Franklin Square Park to honor special people who have been meaningful to
Southport. Mayor Howard asked members to review the proposal and be prepared to
discuss it at the November meeting. He stated that public input would be sought
on the proposal.
   Alderman Barnes announced that the Sail Magazine 2015 Snowbird Rally would
be coming to Southport November 7 with boaters from as far away as Maine. He
emphasized that the 2014 event earned Southport greater exposure in the boating
community.
   Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Powell to adopt a resolution in
recognition of the Sail 2015 Snowbird Rally. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1744_1466x1064.jpg]
 
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, on Friday, November 6, the City of Southport will host a wine and
cheese reception to welcome the Sail 2015 Snowbird Rally; and
WHEREAS, the Snowbird Rally is an annual journey south along the Intracoastal
Waterway (ICW) by longtime and aspiring “cruisers”; and
WHEREAS, this year’s rally launched October 23 in Hampton, Virginia and will
conclude December 1 in St. Augustine, Florida; and
WHEREAS, the “cruisers” make major and intermediate stops along the way; and
WHEREAS, Southport, North Carolina is a 2015 intermediate stop.
NOW  THEREFORE, by virtue of authority vested in me, as Mayor of Southport and
on behalf of our citizens, I do hereby extend to the Snowbird Rally, a most
cordial and sincere welcome to our City.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I do hereby set my hand and cause the corporate seal of the
City of Southport, NC to be affixed this 26th day of October, 2015.
                              /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
/s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
Adjournment – 5:15 p.m.    
   Alderman Powell motioned to adjourn the meeting, second by Alderman Barnes.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.   
                        /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:   /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
NOVEMBER 12, 2015
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN        REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
RIVERMIST AMENITY CENTER NOVEMBER 12, 2015
5020 J. SWAIN BOULEVARD  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor Robert D. Howard
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Emily Humphreys, Nelson Adams,
            Todd Coring, Jim Powell
ABSENT:         Alderman Buddy Barnes
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney   
   Gary Smith, Public Safety Director/Police Chief
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
   Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
   David Fox, Public Works Director
   Joni Schinske, Interim Tourism Director   
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   John Allen, Community Development Specialist
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
   Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
   Alderman Powell welcomed everyone and led the gathering in the Lord’s
Prayer.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Powell led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Public Comment
   Mayor Howard congratulated Mayor-Elect J.V. Dove and Aldermen-Elect Karen
Mosteller and Rick Pukenas. He thanked those not successful in the race for
wanting to serve the community.
   Mr. Tom Lombardi, resident of the Rivermist community thanked the Board for
holding their meeting in the amenity center. He thanked Mayor Howard for his
years of service and welcomed Mayor-Elect J.V. Dove, and Aldermen-Elect Karen
Mosteller and Rick Pukenas.
   Mr. Daniel Guetschow, 211 River Drive, spoke about the city Tourism
Department and his opinion the department had not gotten attention from city
administration and the Aldermen. He praised the efforts of Tourism Director
Cindy Brochure and Interim Tourism Director Joni Schinske, both of whom had
tendered resignations. Mr. Guetschow stressed undergoing a search for their
replacements with emphasis on similar qualifications.
   Mr. Bill Vann, 506 W. St. George Street, a volunteer at the Fort Johnston/
Southport Museum, stated his respect for Ms. Brochure and Ms. Schinske and
their impact on the Tourism Department during their tenure. He shared his
opinion that the 40+ volunteers should be involved in choosing the replacements
and the newly elected Board should spearhead the process.
   Ms. Ellen Messick, 6231 Cottage Creek, read a statement from Mr. Ed
Boguskie, 502 W. Brown Street, who was unable to attend:
   Board of Aldermen, I hope by this point you have been able to read the
editorial in Wednesdays State Port Pilot. The writer hit the nail on the head,
the head being the City Manager, Kerry McDuffie and you the Board of
   Aldermen of Southport.
   The department of tourism has been handled the way the Rescue Squad was
handled a few years ago. The attitude was, we do not need it. Both Cindy
Brochure and Joni Schinske along with a great group of volunteers have put
Southport on the radar of many people, within North Carolina and outside. Some
board members have stated that the tourists will come regardless of a Tourism
Department. This is shallow thinking, ask Hilton Head why they were doing a lot
of advertising about four years ago, the tourist dollars were going elsewhere,
that is why.
   Unfortunately Southport has a few aldermen that have been the under miners
of the Tourism Department, for reasons unknown. Again, like the Rescue Squad.
   Get off your high horse and do something about this situation before it is
too late. If you cannot do this at least lay the ground work so the new board
can tackle this, when seated. Of course a TDA has to be a part of the equation
to have a strong or stronger Tourism Department.
   Mr. Alex Shovlowsky, 314 W. West Street, congratulated the newly elected
officials. He talked about the flooding situation on Yacht Basin & Bay Streets,
the impact on area businesses and their employees.
   Mr. Sandy Mitchell, 513 N. Atlantic Avenue, stated his concerns about the
paving of Moore and Howe Streets taking place at night. He stated he had been
sleep deprived due to the noise and he contended that more information should
have been provided to residents such as a schedule of when and where work would
be taking place. He implored the Board to reconsider approving night work in
the future.
   Mayor Howard directed that comments provided by Ms. Shirley Wilson be
included in the official record:
   My name is Shirley Wilson & I live at 502 W. Brunswick Street. I am unable
to attend tonight’s aldermen meeting so I have asked the City Clerk to please
read my public comments into the records.
   I am dismayed to learn of another talented Southport city employee resign.
In the past several years, the city of Southport has lost several of these
dedicated employees. What do we need to do to keep these talented employees? We
need to examine these departures and try to determine how we can retain them.
The City of Southport is fortunate to have many loyal, dedicated employees and
I appreciate each and every one of them.
   My most serious concern is for the Tourism Department which has now lost
both the Director and the Assistant.
   I have 4 main concerns. They are:
1.   I reiterate concerns I expressed during public comments at the September
10, 2015 Board of Aldermen meeting. My concern then was that the Tourism
Department had been placed under Parks & Rec and was no longer a stand-alone
department. I still have that concern.
2.   We have lost exceptional talent that made the Tourism Department what it
is today. The Tourism Department also created and continued to improve the
excellent Fort Johnston Museum that interprets the history of this historic
property and the history of Southport. We were fortunate to have a former
Museum curator who oversaw the development of this great museum.
3.   I am concerned that the future of the Tourism Department is in jeopardy
and its’mission may be diminished in the future.
4.   Since winning Coastal Living’s “Happiest Seaside Town”, we, as a City,
have failed to capitalize on this designation and continue to promote this
image as part of Southport’s tourism plan. We need to rectify this oversight.
   I hope that when the job descriptions for these two positions within the
Tourism department are written, they will reflect the qualifications that the
previous employees brought to these positions. In this manner, we can continue
the excellence that we have come to expect in the Tourism Department.
   In conclusion, I believe the Tourism Department should be reinstated as a
full fledged department and should be adequately funded and staffed for
success.
   Thank you.
   Shirley Wilson
E)   Approval of Agenda
   Alderman Poole requested addition of two items: Appointment to the Board of
Adjustment and Discussion of a Christmas Bonus for Employees.
   Alderman Coring requested addition of a discussion regarding the Tourism
Department.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to approve the agenda as
amended.  Unanimous vote; motion carried.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Howard stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
F)   Announcements
   Mayor Howard announced that permanent road name signs had been installed at
Northwood Cemetery.
   Mayor Howard spoke about the Yacht Basin Street Project. He reported that
the Board had authorized funding of an engineering study, a preliminary report
was presented and affected property owners had been contacted about a public/
private partnership for the proposed improvements. He stated it was anticipated
that the city would pay 50% and property owners 50%. He pointed out that the
recommendation from the engineer should address 90% of the problem and the
Public Works Department would also be making repairs to drainage in the area.
   Mayor Howard addressed comments made about the Moore and Howe Streets
Paving. He stated that the Board had made the decision to authorize the work be
performed at night due to safety concerns. He expressed regret for the
inconvenience and asked for forgiveness and cooperation as the work progressed.
   Mayor Howard commented that Rob Gandy Boulevard, funded by Capital Power
along with a land donation from the Cameron family, would be dedicated Friday,
December 11, 2015, 10:30 a.m. He added that the North Carolina Department of
Transportation (NCDOT) would be re-routing truck traffic to the new road.
   Mayor Howard gave an update on sewer capacity, stating it had been hoped
that leasing of additional capacity would have been concluded. He indicated
negotiations were on-going with another municipality and Brunswick County to
free up one (1) million gallons and prevent the necessity of expanding the
Brunswick County West Regional Sewer Plant in Supply.
SPECIAL RECOGNITION
Southport Lions Club
   Mayor Howard spoke of the Southport Lions Club’s community spirit and
commitment to help people. Members present assembled to be recognized by the
Board.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Poole to adopt the Resolution
in recognition of the Southport Lions Club 70th Anniversary. Unanimous vote;
motion carried.
   Mayor Howard, member of the Lions Club, read the Resolution:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1754_1245x1159.jpg]    
Resolution
Southport Lions Club 70th Anniversary
WHEREAS, the Southport Lions Club was established 70 years ago (1945) by some
of the most prominent citizens in our community; and
WHEREAS, the Southport Lions Club continues to honor the challenge Helen Keller
issued to the Club in 1929 to become “knights of the blind in the crusade
against darkness”; and
WHEREAS, the Southport Lions Club conducts vision screenings every month at the
New Hope Clinic, each year at numerous local schools, and at the Brunswick
County Health Festival; and
WHEREAS, the Southport Lions Club has covered the expense of cataract surgery
for 10 needy individuals over the past 3 years; and
WHEREAS, the Southport Lions Club collects over 1,700 pairs of glasses each
year and provides assistance to those needing, but unable to afford, eye exams
and the purchase of glasses; and
WHEREAS, the Southport Lions Club contributes financial and volunteer support
to over 20 local charities and youth programs; and
WHEREAS, the Southport Lions Club is composed of men and women who dedicate
their time to the betterment of our community and aiding those in need; and
NOW THEREFORE, I, Robert Howard, Mayor of the City of Southport, NC and the
Board of Aldermen, hereby congratulate the Southport Lions Club on 70 years of
service to our City and the surrounding communities.
ADOPTED, this 12th day of November 2015 by the Southport Board of Aldermen.
                     /s/ Robert Howard, Mayor      
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
Cindy Brochure
   Mayor Howard thanked Ms. Brochure for serving as Southport’s Director of
Tourism & Economic Development and earning Southport the Coastal Living 2015
Happiest Seaside Town in America designation. He congratulated her on being
elected Mayor of Oak Island
Alderman Poole read the Resolution:
RESOLUTION OF APPRECIATION
WHEREAS, Cindy Brochure has served the City of Southport as Tourism and
Economic Development Director for four years; and
WHEREAS, Cindy’s love for Southport has shown through in all of her endeavors
to showcase the city; and
WHEREAS, Cindy has promoted Southport to new levels of recognition with
Southport being named the 2015 Happiest Seaside Town in America.; and
WHEREAS, through her efforts the major motion picture Safe Haven was filmed in
Southport along with television series Under the Dome; and
WHEREAS, she initiated the International Plein Air painting event; and
WHEREAS, under her skilled direction, the Ft. Johnston-Southport Museum was
created; and
WHEREAS, her working relationships with co-workers and citizens has been
characterized by dedication and enthusiasm in getting the job done; and
WHEREAS, the City recognizes the many achievements that have been accomplished
during her tenure; and
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that Mayor Robert D. Howard and the Board of
Aldermen express sincere appreciation and thanks to Cindy Brochure for her
contributions to the City of Southport.
ADOPTED this the 12th day of November 2015.   
IN WITNESS WHEREOF       /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
/s/ Mary Ellen Poole, Alderman            /s/ Nelson E. Adams, Alderman
/s/ James F. Powell, Alderman            /s/ Buddy Barnes, Alderman
/s/ Emily Humphreys, Alderman            /s/ Todd Coring, Alderman
   Ms. Brochure expressed her gratitude for being able to serve the citizens
and businesses of Southport. She praised the volunteers and her assistant Ms.
Joni Schinske. She thanked the many organizations and committees she worked
with and recognized the financial support of Downtown Southport Incorporated
(DSI). She thanked the State Port Pilot for always covering the events. She
acknowledged Mayor Howard as her mentor and expressed her enthusiasm to work
with Southport in her new capacity as Mayor of Oak Island.
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Powell to adopt the Resolution
of Appreciation. Unanimous vote; motion carried. 
   Alderman Poole recognized civic students from Brunswick High School
attending the meeting.
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Poole to approve the consent
agenda. Unanimous vote; motion carried.   
1.   Minutes for September 29 Special Meeting -  approved
   Minutes for October 8 Regular Meeting -  approved
   Minutes for October 26 Recessed Meeting - approved
AGENDA
2.   Presentation of AMI Water Meter Project
Mr. Andy Honeycutt, MeterSYS Advanced Metering Solutions, a company focused on
financial, operational, and customer service enhancements for public water,
gave a presentation on an AMI Smart Metering System for the City’s water
utility. He discussed the company’s key partners and stakeholders. He
emphasized the real time two-way communications and that water loss reduction
will be realized. He outlined the following:
                    BENEFITS          BENEFITS
   CITY GOALS         To Utility Customer             To
Utilities                
1. Advanced metering reading      1. Accuracy of Read      1. Real-time
Analytics
2. Accuracy of reads         2. Real-time Reporting       and Modeling   
3. System analytics         3. Historical Profiling      2. Data Management
4. Improved account management       3. Consumption Management   3. Measuring
and Sensing   
5. Optimized utility revenue                  4. Automation and Controls
6. Improved operational efficiencies               5. System Optimization   
7. Customer service enhancements
8. Scalability
Mr. Honeycutt discussed the Features, Functions and Alerts:
Account History            Alarms Report      Negative Consumption Report
High Low Exception Report      Endpoint Details      MeterID to RadioID
Mismatch
Billing Cycle Statistical Summary      Orphaned Meters      Meter Intervals by
MeterID
Master Route Registers         Consumption Report   Master Route No Reads
Consumption Historical         Comparison      Zero Consumption for Period
Consumption 24 hours Exceptions      Premise Devises      Zero Consumption
Counts by Day
Current vs Previous Reading Reported   Route Import Exceptions      
He emphasized the enhanced Customer Portal Dashboard. He explained the building
and execution of the plan and the anticipated implementation by October, 2016.
Mayor Howard noted that $600,000 had been allocated in the water fund for the
smart metering project that will make the city more competitive and conserve
the city’s aging system.
City Manager McDuffie explained that the total project cost of $904,000 could
be split between current fiscal year and next budget year.
Mayor Howard directed staff to provide options for funding and the financial
implications. He noted the project is worthy of the Board’s consideration and
he ordered the subject tabled until the next meeting.
City Manager McDuffie was directed to provide Board members with a copy of the
presentation.
3.   Consideration of Fort Johnston Landscape Plan
   Item tabled after a report by City Manager McDuffie that the proposed
landscape plan had not received a favorable response from the State Historic
Preservation Office (SHPO).
4.   Consideration of RFP for Poyner & Spruill LLP
   Mayor Howard presented a proposal from Poyner & Spruill LLP for
representation with Federal and State agencies relating to funding for the
proposed waterfront project. He indicated a $10,000 retainer is being
requested.
   City Attorney Isenberg stated he had reviewed the proposal and, at his
request, a provision permitting Poyner & Spruill to represent parties that
could be in conflict with the City, had been removed.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Poole to accept the proposal
and retain the services of Poyner & Spruill to help with the waterfront
development and to authorize the $10,000 retainer. Unanimous vote; motion
carried.
5.   Budget Amendment #8; Poyner & Spruill LLP
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to approve Budget Amendment
#8. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1757_855x798.jpg]
Budget Amendment
Fiscal Year 2015-2016
Budget Amendment #8
WHEREAS the City of Southport desires to hire a Contractor to assist in finding
and writing grants;
and
WHEREAS there are funds in the discretionary line of the Administration and
Board departments to transfer to Board Professional Services in the
Administration Department; and
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2015-2016 needs to be amended to
reflect the transfer of funds between departments necessary to carry out the
use of these funds;
   BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2015-2016 shall be
amended as follows:
GENERAL FUND
Transfer (7 months)                Increase/(Decrease)
Board Discretionary 10-4110-9700          $ (9,000)
Admin Discretionary 10-4120-9700            $ (1,000)
Board Professional Services             $10,000
10-4110-1800
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, November 12,
2015
            
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
      
/s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
6.   Consideration of Franklin Square Park “Walk of Honor”
   Mayor Howard noted that discussions have been ongoing for years for a way to
honor citizens that have contributed so much to the city. He pointed out that a
maritime memorial is being considered as part of the Waterfront Project.
   Mr. Stanley Mandel discussed establishing a Walk of Honor in Franklin Square
Park with first honoree P.D. Midget, a 30 year resident, musician and pastor.
Mr. Mandel stated his vision of a committee of citizens and Aldermen to decide
others to be honored.
   Alderman Adams stated he loved the concept; it is overdue, very deserving
and a fine tribute to P.D. He expressed concerns about the geographical area.
   Alderman Poole recommended looking at the memorials and acknowledgements at
the old jail.
   There was no opposition to considering the concept for further discussion.
7.   Lord Street Gym Update
   Alderman Adams reported that a proposal was submitted by W.K. Dickson in the
amount of $41,000 to analyze the roof beams and determine if they could support
a new roof. He added that other avenues are being pursued for a proposal or
lesser bid. He noted that if the roof beams cannot be refurbished, the outlook
is bleak for the renovation project. Item to be placed on a future agenda when
the committee is ready to report.
8.   Contract for Utility Billing with Brunswick Electric Membership Corp.
(BEMC)
   City Manager McDuffie presented a contract for Electric Customer Account
Services with BEMC.
   Alderman Powell stated support for the proposal: reading electric meters,
preparing and mailing monthly electric bills, and processing remittances from
the city’s electric customers. He talked about the payment methods that will be
available to customers and he praised the history of cooperation between the
City and BEMC.
   Mayor Howard noted that the process also includes installation of new meters
and technology that gives customers the ability to follow their electric usage.
He pointed out that the services would be beneficial for the city and citizens.
   City Attorney Isenberg indicated that he had reviewed the contract for legal
issues and he had made changes to Section 3 dealing with terms, notices and a
period for negotiation, arbitration and mediation. (contract on file in the
Clerk’s office)
   At the request of Alderman Adams, item tabled until a recessed session.
9.   Staff Christmas Bonus
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Powell to authorize a $225
Christmas bonus for full-time employees and a $175 bonus for part-time
employees. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
10.   Board of Adjustment Appointment
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Powell to appoint Thomas
Lombardi to the Board of Adjustment. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
11.   Tourism Department Discussion
   Alderman Coring talked about issues people had expressed to him during his
recent campaign for re-election. He stated that concerns about the Tourism
Department were frequently mentioned. He pointed out that many accolades for
the Tourism Department had been shared during public comment. He questioned why
it is perceived that the department is not fully supported by the Board and
city staff, why the full-time assistant position is being eliminated and what
were the reasons for placing the department under the Parks & Recreation
Director when his research could not find anywhere that tourism is under Parks
and Recreation. He stated his opinion that the city organizational chart needs
to be revised and the vision of the Tourism Department defined.
   Mayor Howard stated his respect for the Tourism Department. He insisted that
a false perception had prevailed in part because the press had not been
objective. He challenged finding another community in the area with the
percentage of revenue support as Southport for tourism. He spoke about the
organizing of five (5) groupings within the city administration and that the
Tourism Department was on the same level as the Parks & Recreation Department.
   City Manager McDuffie emphasized the importance of the Tourism Department
and noted that the Board has demonstrated its willingness to fund the
department with approval of all budget requests. He pointed out that the
reorganization occurred a month after Ms. Brochure filed for office. He stated
it was unfortunate that both staff members were leaving and he indicated that
job descriptions would be updated and advertised.
   Aldermen Powell and Adams noted that the Tourism Department annual budget is
$230,000, of which $80,000 is collected from occupancy taxes and the remainder
from taxpayers.
Staff Reports
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Humphreys to hold the December
regular meeting on December 15th at the Community Building instead of on
December 10.
Unanimous vote by an uplift of hands; motion carried.
Board Comments
   All Board members thanked the residents of Rivermist for hosting the
meeting.
   Alderman Coring stated appreciation for the attendance of high school
students involved in a civic project. He thanked the community for supporting
him during the election.
   Alderman Humphreys thanked Public Works Director David Fox and his staff for
quickly repairing a water valve damaged by NCDOT.
   Mayor Howard stated the Board would address the Yacht Basin Improvement
Contract, Franklin Square Walk of Honor, Ft. Johnston Landscape Plan, BEMC
Contract and Water AMI Project at the recessed meeting.
Recess – 7:35 p.m.
The meeting was recessed to Wednesday, November 18, 6:00 p.m. in the Board of
Aldermen Chambers, 201 E. Moore Street.
                        /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
NOVEMBER 24, 2015
RECESSED SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN   RECESSED SESSION MINUTES
ALDERMEN CHAMBERS   NOVEMBER 24, 2015
201 E. MOORE STREET SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor Robert D. Howard
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Emily Humphreys, Jim Powell,
            Buddy Barnes, Nelson Adams
ABSENT:         Todd Coring
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Gary Smith, Public Safety Director/Police Chief
A)   Call Back to Order – 6:00 p.m.
    Mayor Howard called the November 12 recessed meeting back to order at 6:00
p.m.
AGENDA
Yacht Basin Project
   Mayor Howard stated it had been anticipated that a contract for the Yacht
Basin project would be ready for consideration. However, concerns were raised
that a CAMA permit would be required. The City’s Engineer and staff met with
Tara McPherson, CAMA and it was determined that the proposed work is repairs
and maintenance and would not require a CAMA permit. Mayor Howard stated it is
hoped that bids would be in soon and an award could be made by the end of the
year. He indicated a special meeting could be called.
Fort Johnston
   Mayor Howard announced that a new sign had been put up on the Ft. Johnston
Garrison building.
   Mayor Howard announced that the landscape plan proposed by the
Beautification Committee for the garrison had been denied by the State Historic
Preservation Office (SHPO).
Public Restrooms
   Mayor Howard asked about the status of a sign for the new public restrooms.
Alderman Powell responded that Downtown Southport Inc. (DSI) had a sign made
but he had not yet seen it. Mayor Howard directed that a picture be taken of
the sign and distributed to all Board members for consideration of approval for
the sign to be placed as Old Business on the December meeting agenda.
Rob Gandy Boulevard
   Mayor Howard announced that Capital Power Corporate officials from Canada
would be present for the Rob Gandy Boulevard dedication, December 11, 2015. He
asked the Board their thoughts about hosting a reception after the dedication
to honor Capital Power and those who donated land.    
   Alderman Poole, emphasizing that Capital Power has been a good neighbor,
motioned, second by Alderman Powell to hold a reception at Mr. P’s Bistro.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Load Management Switches
   City Manager McDuffie presented a staff recommendation to purchase 700 load
management switches through the Electricities competitive purchasing program.
   Mayor Howard pointed out that the switch replacement project had been
previously approved and the City is authorized through general statute to
purchase the switches through the Electricities purchasing program because of
the uniqueness of the equipment.
   Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Powell to adopt the Resolution
Authorizing The Purchase of Load Management Switches From Nexgrid For
$109,860.00 Through The Electricities North Carolina, Inc. Purchasing Program
As Authorized Under North Carolina General Statute §143-129(e)(3).  
Discussion
   Alderman Adams stated his desire to see more emphasis put on department
heads to explain the Load Management Program to the public. Additionally, he
asked if the previous notice was revised to alleviate confusion.
   City Manager McDuffie explained that the switches would be received within
90 days and additional promotion would take place at that time.
   Mayor Howard noted that one of the goals of the Board had been to make
Southport electric rates competitive with Brunswick Electric Membership Corp
(BEMC) and that goal had been realized.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE PURCHASE OF LOAD MANAGEMENT SWITCHES FROM NEXGRID
FOR $109,860.00 THROUGH THE ELECTRICITIES NORTH CAROLINA, INC., PURCHASING
PROGRAM AS AUTHORIZED UNDER NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTE §143-129(e)(3)
   WHEREAS, the City of Southport Board of Aldermen has determined that it is
in the best interests of the City to purchase load management switches for its
electrical system; and
   WHEREAS, N.C. General Statute §143-129(e)(3) provides an exception to the
requirements of Chapter 143, Article 8, for purchases made through a
competitive bidding group purchasing program which is a formally organized
program that offers competitively obtained purchase services at discount prices
to two or more public agencies; and
   WHEREAS, the City of Southport has contacted ELECTRICITIES NORTH CAROLINA,
INC., a competitive purchasing program as authorized under General Statute
§143-129(e)(3), seeking their assistance in acquiring said load management
switches using specifications to meet the City’s needs; and
   WHEREAS, ELECTRICITIES NORTH CAROLINA, INC., has completed the bidding
process with manufacturers and Nexgrid is offering said load management
switches for $109,860.00 meeting the City’s submitted specifications with a 90
days’ delivery date; and
   WHEREAS, the Southport Board of Aldermen has determined that it is in the
best interest of the City of Southport to waive the normal bidding requirements
of N.C.G.S. 143-129 in order to purchase said Equipment in accordance with this
cooperative purchase program.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the City of Southport Board of Aldermen,
that:
   1.   The City waives the formal bidding provision of N.C.G.S. 143-129; and
   2.   The Board authorized the City Manager to execute documents required to
purchase 700 load management switches per submitted specifications from Nexgrid
through THE ELECTRICITIES NORTH CAROLINA, INC., Purchasing Program in the
amount of $109,860.00 pursuant to N.C.G.S. §143-129(e)(3)
   Adopted this 24th day of November, 2015.            CITY OF SOUTHPORT
                           
                           By: /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor   
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
Water Meters
   City Manager McDuffie reported that he anticipates having a contract for new
water meters for consideration at the December 15 meeting.
   Alderman Poole pointed out that 42% of the City’s October electric bill was
based on a one hour peak. City Manager McDuffie explained that the peak hour of
usage was billed at 19.21 cents per kW which is a tremendous cost and why
utilizing load management can greatly reduce the peak. He pointed out that the
rest of the month was billed at 3.27 cents per kW.
Loading Zone
   City Manager McDuffie referenced a picture of an area on Davis Street behind
the Dosher Hospital Flea Market and advised the Board that Waste Industries has
had difficulty accessing the trash dumpster due to vehicles parking in the
space. He recommended that the area be designated a loading zone.
   Alderman Adams pointed out that a utility pole with transformer is in the
area and needs to be accessible. He motioned, second by Alderman Poole to
designate a loading zone and directed staff to paint lines on Davis Street
behind Dosher Flea Market in the area depicted as a jutted out section on the
photo provided. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Paving
   City Manager McDuffie reported that no paving work would be performed on
Moore and Howe Streets during the nights of December 10 th & 11 th in order for
Winterfest activities to be held.
Adjournment – 6:36 p.m.
   Alderman Poole motioned to adjourn the meeting, second by Alderman Barnes.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
                        /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
Attest:   /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
DECEMBER 15, 2015
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING DECEMBER 15, 2015
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor Robert D. Howard
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Emily Humphreys, Nelson Adams,
            Todd Coring, Jim Powell, Buddy Barnes
            Mayor-Elect J.V. Dove
            Alderman-Elect Karen Mosteller
            Alderman-Elect Rick Pukenas
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Gayle Jones, Deputy City Clerk
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director   
   Gary Smith, Public Safety Director/Police Chief
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   Tyler Johnston, EMS Chief
   Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
   David Fox, Public Works Director
   Paul Woodall, Water Superintendent
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   John Allen, Community Development Specialist
   Randy Jones, Interim Tourism Director
   Vickie Potter, Community Building Coordinator
   Cheryl Metcalf, Accounts Payable Technician
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Howard called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Humphreys welcomed everyone and Southport Baptist Church Pastor Gene
Tomlinson gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Humphreys led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Public Comment
   Mr. Nick Kern, 415 N. Burrington Avenue spoke about the proposed Unified
Development Ordinance (UDO) text amendment.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Howard stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
E)   Approval of Agenda   
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to approve the agenda as
presented.  
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Powell to approve the Consent
Agenda. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
1.   Minutes for November 12 Regular Meeting -  approved
   Minutes for November 18 Recessed Meeting - approved
   Minutes for November 24 Recessed Meeting - approved
F)   Announcements
   Mayor Howard commended the initiative of the Finance Department and the
$1,440 donation made by city employees to assist utility customers.
   Mayor Howard praised the Police Department for raising over $2,000 for the
annual Shop With A Cop Program.
AGENDA – Old Business
2.   AMI Water Meter Project
City Manager McDuffie explained the three (3) contracts for the Advanced
Metering Infrastructure (AMI) Project; equipment provider, Mueller Systems;
equipment installer, Fortiline Waterworks; project manager, MeterSYS. He
indicated that Southport Water Superintendent, Paul Woodall, would oversee the
project.
Mr. Woodall stated he had reviewed all the materials and found everything in
order.
Mr. Fox indicated he had reviewed the contracts.
City Attorney Isenberg pointed out a few minor clerical items and suggested
approval be conditional on correction of those items.
Alderman Humphreys asked about the life expectancy of the system. City Manager
McDuffie stated the life expectancy is 20 years; the batteries are 10 years
with 100% replacement, 11-15 years with 50% replacement and 15-20 years with
25% replacement.
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Poole to authorize all three
contracts upon correction of clerical concerns. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
(contracts on file in the Clerk’s Office)
3.   Budget Amendment #9, AMI Project
   City Manager McDuffie explained that Budget Amendment #9 was for allocation
of the $400,000 to perform the AMI Project.
   Alderman Barnes motioned, second by Alderman Poole to approve Budget
Amendment #9. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1760_855x848.jpg]
Budget Amendment
Fiscal Year 2015-2016
Budget Amendment #9
WHEREAS the City of Southport desires to install an Automatic Meter Reading
system for the water and sewer customers of the city.
WHEREAS there are sufficient funds in the fund balance of the water and sewer
fund; and
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2015-2016 needs to be amended to
reflect the appropriation of the fund balance necessary to implement the
project;
   BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2015-2016 shall be
amended as follows:
Water/Sewer FUND          Beg. Balance Increase/(Decrease)      Ending Balance
Capital Outlay - Facilities
31-7130-5800         $695,700      $ 340,000      $1,035,700
Fund Balance Appropriation
31-2990-2000         $(270,600)      $(340,000)      $(610,600)
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, December 15,
2015.   
                        /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
/s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk   
4.   Consideration of Contracting Architectural and Engineering Services for
201 E. Moore Street
   City Manager McDuffie presented a staff recommendation to combine
engineering and architectural services for the renovation of 201 E. Moore
Street into one contract with the architect as the point person.
   Further consideration tabled until next meeting.
5.   Budget Amendment #10; Yacht Basin Improvements
Mayor Howard talked about the Board’s initiative to mitigate the tidal flooding
in the Yacht Basin area. He stated the project would involve raising the level
of Yacht Basin Drive, work would be performed in January/February and would be
funded 50% by the city. Property owners in the area would fund the remaining
portion of the project. Mayor Howard reported that most of the property owners
had been contacted and had agreed to participate.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to authorize the City
Manager to do the Yacht Basin project in the amount of $104,700. Unanimous
vote; motion carried.
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to approve Budget
Amendment #10. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1763_855x798.jpg]
Budget Amendment
Fiscal Year 2015-2016
Budget Amendment #10
WHEREAS the City of Southport desires to improve the streets and contract
services for waterfront project consulting, and;
WHEREAS there are funds available in the fund balance of Powell Bill and
additional revenues, and;
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2015-2016 needs to be amended to
reflect the appropriation of the fund balance and revenues necessary to
implement the projects;
   BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2015-2016 shall be
amended as follows:
Revenues                        Beg. Balance Increase/(Decrease)   Ending
Balance
Powell Bill Fund Balance Appropriation    80,000         40,192         120,192
20-3991-0000            
Powell Bill Additional
Revenues                                                                                           
 20-3316-0000            102,500           7,452         109,952
Misc Revenue – General
10-3920-0100             5,000          37,400          42,400         
         Total                85,044      
Expenditures
Capital Outlay - Other
20-4510-5500               164,000      47,644         211,644      
Capital Outlay - Facilities
10-4511-5100          $41,250      (41,250)              -0-   
Capital Outlay – Other
10-4511-5500             0       63,650           63,250
Professional Fees                   
10-4110-1800            42,000       15,000           57,000
      Total                 85,044
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, December 15,
2015
               
                     /s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor
/s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
6.   Community Garden Committee Appointments
   Alderman Poole recalled that the City had taken over financial
responsibility of the Caswell Avenue Community Garden. She recommended
establishing a city committee comprised of the persons serving on the existing
steering committee.
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to appoint Mamie Caison,
Molla Donaldson, Wendell Watson, Michelle Cousineau, Lora Sharkey and Donnie
Bassinger to the Caswell Avenue Community Garden Committee.  Unanimous vote;
motion carried.
   Alderman Poole asked to be appointed liaison to the committee. No Action
taken.
7.   Appointment to Planning Board
   Alderman Poole stated that two (2) vacancies exist on the Planning Board and
applications for the city seat had been submitted.
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Barnes to appoint Ms. Tish Hatem,
610A West Brown Street, to a three year full city seat on the Planning Board.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Alderman Poole requested the City Clerk advertise the Extraterritorial
Jurisdiction (ETJ) position.
8.   Sewer Update
   Mayor Howard updated the Board on the status of sewer capacity. He reported
that expansion of the West Brunswick wastewater treatment plant would be
required in order for Southport to purchase 1M gallon of capacity in lieu of
leasing. He stated that the cost to expand the plant was estimated at $20M and
would be the sole responsibility of the city. Mayor Howard indicated that the
city had begun negotiations with the Town of Oak Island to purchase a portion
of capacity the town owns at a cost of $14 – 15 million. He added that
Brunswick County had given the city its blessing to negotiate with the Town of
Oak Island. He personally thanked the Brunswick County Commissioners and County
Manager who have been sympathetic to Southport’s needs and have worked to find
additional capacity.   
9.   Lord Street Gym Update
   Mayor Howard discussed the donation from Brunswick Community College (BCC)
to the City of the Lord Street gymnasium; the City agreed to do yard
maintenance for ten (10) years and paint the exterior and put a new roof on
within two (2) years of acquisition (July 2015). He stated the Board had
authorized an engineering study which revealed the steel beam trusses of the
roof would have to be removed which would not be cost efficient for the City.
Mayor Howard reported that Alderman Adams was working to obtain an additional
quote to test the structural integrity of the trusses.
   Alderman Adams added that the condition of the trusses would dictate what
direction the City could take on the project.
   Projects Status Update by Mayor
   Mayor Howard reported that BCC had dedicated the Southport Campus. He
expressed gratitude that the campus is functioning and commended president
Adams for making the project happen through multiple setbacks and delays.
   Ball Field Project
   Mayor Howard spoke about the status of the 9 th Street Park Ballfield,
noting the setback from heavy rains. He pointed out that Bald Head Island
Limited owned 50% of the park, have leased the property to the City for two (2)
years and will continue to permit City use as long as they have no development
plans for the area. Mayor Howard announced that the Parks and Recreation
Director had advised him that the fields would be ready for play in the summer.
   Riverwalk
   Mayor Howard talked about the lease with the State Port Authority for the
Riverwalk, set to expire in 2017. He stated that through the assistance of
Senator Bill Rabon, himself, Alderman Powell, City Manager and Mayor-Elect Dove
had met with state officials and it is believed that the City of Southport will
gain ownership of the property.
   211 Widening
   Mayor Howard reported that the North Carolina Department of Transportation
(NCDOT) had notified the city that the city would be financially responsible
for removal of power poles in the right-of-way of NC 211 for the widening of
the road. He stated it was DOT’s contention that Southport had not been
providing electric service along the route prior to 1952 and DOT had requested
the city provide proof to the contrary to avoid financial responsibility. Mayor
Howard reported that the city attorney had obtained affidavits from older
residents stating that the city was providing electric service prior to 1952 as
far out 211 as to the current day location of the Verizon Store.
   Electricities
   Mayor Howard thanked Paul fisher, Jim Powell and the City Manager for their
efforts to reduce Southport’s high electrical costs, noting that with the sale
of the power plants, the citizens of Southport have electric rates lower than
Duke Energy and Brunswick Electric Membership Corp. (BEMC) Additionally he
pointed out that new automated meters will provide customers with access to
electric usage, payment kiosks and prepay accounts.
   Water Meters
   Mayor Howard pointed out that new automated water meters will be read
electronically and provide better service to the customer.
   BEMC Contract
   Mayor Howard reported that the operation and maintenance (O&M) contract with
BEMC would expire June, 2016. He indicated that negotiations are on-going for a
conclusive contract for meter reading and O&M.
   Walk of Honor
   Mayor Howard deferred consideration of the Walk of Honor in Franklin Square
Park to the new board.
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Coring to approve two (2)
resolutions of recognition. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
RECOGNITION OF DEPARTING SOUTHPORT BOARD OF ALDERMEN
   Alderman Poole read the Resolution in Honor of Alderman Humphreys
RESOLUTION
In Honor of Alderman Emily Humphreys
   WHEREAS, The City of Southport is always appreciative of those who choose to
serve for the betterment of the City; and
   WHEREAS, Emily Humphreys answered the call to serve at a time when the
community was mourning the loss of Alderman Meezie Childs; and
   WHEREAS, Emily Humphreys was sworn in as a member of the Southport Board of
Aldermen April 29, 2015 and
   WHEREAS, she has diligently and capably served the citizens of Southport for
the past eight months; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen desires to recognize the outstanding service
of Emily Humphreys to the citizens and the benefit that service has brought to
the City of Southport.
   NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE SOUTHPORT BOARD OF ALDERMEN, for and on
behalf of the Citizens of Southport, do hereby honor Emily Humphreys we
congratulate her on her service to the Board and wish her well in all her
future endeavors.
   Presented and approved at a regular meeting of the Southport Board of
Aldermen this 15th day of December, 2015
/s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor            /s/ Mary Ellen Poole, Mayor Pro Tem
/s/ Nelson Adams, Alderman            /s/ Todd Coring, Alderman
/s/ Buddy Barnes, Alderman            /s/ James F. Powell, III, Alderman
   Alderman Coring read and presented a plaque in recognition of her service to
Alderman Humphreys.
   Alderman Humphreys expressed her honor to have served with the Board and the
citizens of Southport.
   Alderman Adams read the Resolution in Honor of Alderman Barnes and presented
him with a plaque in recognition of his service.
RESOLUTION
In Honor of Alderman Floyd “Buddy” Barnes
   WHEREAS, Buddy Barnes was sworn in as a member of the Southport Board of
Aldermen to represent the citizens of Southport in December of 2011; and
   WHEREAS, he has served the citizens of Southport for the past four years on
the Board of Aldermen; and
   WHEREAS, during his tenure on the Board of Aldermen, Buddy served as the
Chair of the Rate Review Committee, Member of the Fort Johnston Committee,
Liaison to the Planning Board, and Liaison to the Beautification Committee, in
addition to other duties and responsibilities; and
   WHEREAS, Buddy previously served on the City of Southport Planning Board for
five years; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen desires to recognize the outstanding service
of Buddy Barnes to the citizens and the benefit that service has brought to the
City of Southport.
   NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE SOUTHPORT BOARD OF ALDERMEN, for and on
behalf of the Citizens of Southport, do hereby honor the outstanding career of
Buddy Barnes; we congratulate him on his service to the Board and wish him well
in all his future endeavors.
   Presented and approved at a regular meeting of the Southport Board of
Aldermen this 15th day of December, 2015
/s/ Robert D. Howard, Mayor            /s/ Mary Ellen Poole, Mayor Pro Tem
/s/ Nelson Adams, Alderman            /s/ Todd Coring, Alderman
/s/ Emily Humphreys, Alderman         /s/ James F. Powell, III, Alderman
   Alderman Barnes thanked the citizens of Southport for their support, the
city employees and Board members past and present.   
   Alderman Barnes paid tribute to Mayor Howard. He read the poem “Silver
Bullets” and presented the framed poem and a silver bullet to Mayor Howard.
   Mayor Howard recalled his lifelong friend Meezie Childs, an alderman who
passed away unexpectedly last spring. He thanked the citizens for supporting
him and allowing him to serve, the hundreds of volunteers, city employees, city
manager, the Board and his wife. He congratulated the new board members and he
passed the gavel on to Mayor Dove.
SWEARING IN CEREMONY OF MAYOR-ELECT J.V.DOVE, ALDERMEN-ELECT JAMES POWELL, TODD
CORING, KAREN MOSTELLER & RICK PUKENAS
   Superior Court Judge Ola Lewis swore in new Mayor J.V. Dove and Aldermen
Todd Coring, Karen Mosteller, Rick Pukenas and Jim Powell.
   Mayor Dove cited lines from a poem by Alfred Lord Tennyson and expressed his
love of Southport. He spoke of the influence of faith in his life, thanked his
wife, the citizens, and city employees. He vowed to be a strong leader.
   Organizational Meeting of the Board
      a.   Election of Mayor Pro-Tem
   Alderman Poole nominated Alderman Coring for Mayor Pro Tem. Second by
Alderman Powell. There were no other nominations. Unanimous vote by an uplift
of hands; motion carried.
AGENDA - NEW BUSINESS
10.   Public Hearing: Unified Development Ordinance (UDO) Text Amendment,
Article 15, Section 15-8: Small Lot Cluster Development
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to open Public Hearing.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Mr. Nick Kern, 415 N. Burrington Avenue, a former Washington, D.C.
developer, stated he had reviewed the proposed text amendment and had concerns
that he had discussed with city staff.
   Mr. Allen thanked Mr. Kern for his interest, his review of the proposed
amendment and for sharing his concerns. Mr. Allen explained that the proposed
amendment specifically was designed to create a small lot cottage home
development of 10 acres or less and zoned multi-family (MF). He added that the
amendment would allow a development on lots of 5,000 sq. ft. with a maximum
footprint of 1,400 sq. ft. and with reduced setbacks where houses are close
together with pedestrian access and geared towards social interaction. Mr.
Allen noted that concerns raised by Mr. Kern, such as a garage in front of the
house, were addressed in other articles of the UDO.
   Mr. Kern reiterated his concerns relating to lot size, house size, driveway,
garage, impervious coverage, off street parking and he suggested footnotes
should be added to refer to other articles within the UDO
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Powell to close Public Hearing.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
11.   Consideration of Text Amendment
   Responding to a query by Aldermen Adams and Powell, Mr. Allen stated that
the houses would be a story and a half, with setbacks: front 10’, side 6’, rear
5’; for an unattached accessory structure, 20’ from principal structure.
   Mr. Allen noted that stormwater management plans for developments must be
submitted to NC Department of Environmental & Natural Resources (DENR), parking
requirements were covered in Article 16, and the amendment was not designed
with a specific project in mind.
   Alderman Powell pointed out that when the UDO was crafted, a stormwater
ordinance was developed first and all proposed developments are required to
meet those requirements.
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Coring to defer consideration of
the text amendment to the January regular meeting. Unanimous vote by an uplift
of hands; motion carried. 
12.   Request Downtown Southport Incorporated (DSI) Install a Wayfinding Sign
at Howe & Nash Street
   Alderman Coring asked for input from the Board for making a request to
Downtown Southport Inc. (DSI) for additional signage, such as a decorative pole
or wayfinding style sign for the public restrooms.
   City Manager McDuffie indicated that he did not have pricing for the
wayfinding type sign and staff could install something inexpensive or make a
request to DSI.
   Board consensus to authorize the City Manager to contact DSI and advise the
Board accordingly.
13.   Consideration of Take Home Patrol Vehicle Policy
   Chief Smith presented a request to increase the take home patrol vehicle
policy from 12 miles to 25 miles. He stated the benefits of a take home vehicle
aide in recruitment and retention of qualified officers.
   Alderman Adams stated his full support for the change and he motioned,
second by Alderman Powell to increase the take home patrol vehicle policy to 25
miles. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
14.   Setting Date of Annual Retreat
   Along with a date for the annual Board Retreat, City Manager McDuffie
recommended the Board set a date to tour all city owned properties.
   Board consensus to tour city properties on Saturday, January 16, 2016, 9:00
a.m. and to hold the Retreat on Saturday, January 23, 2016, 9:00 a.m. – 4:00
p.m.
   Resolution Honoring Robert D. Ruark, Jr.
   Alderman Pukenas motioned, second by Alderman Poole to adopt a Resolution
Honoring the 100th Birthday of Robert C. Ruark, Jr. Unanimous vote; motion
carried.
   Alderman Pukenas read the resolution into the record.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1766_855x798.jpg]
 
A RESOLUTION HONORING THE 100TH BIRTHDAY OF
ROBERT C. RUARK, JR.
WHEREAS, Robert C. Ruark, Jr. was born in Wilmington on December 29, 1915; and
WHEREAS, Ruark achieved international success as a newspaper and magazine
columnist and author; and
WHEREAS, Ruark spent a great deal of his childhood visiting his maternal
grandparents, Capt. Ned and Lottie Adkins at their home in Southport; and
WHEREAS, Among Ruark’s works were the beloved book, The Old Man and the Boy; a
semi-autographical work defined by the philosophical musings of his
grandfather; and
WHEREAS, Ruark’s success brought much attention to Southport which continues to
this day.
BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the City of Southport hereby designates December 29, 2015 as
“Robert C. Ruark, Jr.” day in his honor.
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, December 15,
2015.
   
   /s/ J.V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/Michele Windham, Clerk
Staff Reports
   City Manager McDuffie reported that the Load Management switches had been
ordered and had a 90 day lead time. He indicated that within three (3) months
it is anticipated that appointments will be set with those requesting
installation of the switches.
   City Manager McDuffie presented a diagram of a proposed location on Fodale
Avenue for the placement of the electric bill payment terminal. He explained
the location was chosen by Brunswick Electric Membership Corp. (BEMC) and city
staff because the city owns the property, it is centrally located and the least
expensive location for installation. Responding to an inquiry from Alderman
Adams, City Manager McDuffie explained that the terminal would be paid for by
the City for a total project cost of $82,000 which had been budgeted. He stated
that BEMC would maintain the terminal.
   Alderman Coring and Adams commented about the removal of parallel parking
and addition of diagonal parking, pointing out that the parking had been
changed to parallel parking in the recent past per recommendation of the city’s
insurance carrier.
   Per consensus of the Board, City Manager McDuffie authorized to order the
terminal, advise BEMC the placement location may be adjusted, contact the
city’s insurance carrier pertaining to the parking configuration and include
the Fodale Avenue location on the January 16 tour of properties.
Board Comments
   Alderman Poole thanked Alderman Coring for accepting the Mayor Pro Temp
position, she welcomed the new Mayor and Board members and offered her
assistance.
   All members welcomed the Mayor and new Board members and congratulated
Alderman Coring.
   Mayor Dove announced that he would hold “Mayor’s Day” from 5:00 – 8:00 p.m.,
Thursday, January 21, 2016 at the former visitors’ center, 319 W. Moore Street.
He stated that he would be available to hear citizen’s concerns. He indicated
that subsequent meetings would be scheduled the third Thursday of each month.
Adjournment – 8:13 p.m.
   Alderman Powell motioned to adjourn the meeting, second by Alderman Poole.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
                        /s/ J.V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
2016
JANUARY 14, 2016
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING JANUARY 14, 2016
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Karen Mosteller, Jim Powell,
            Todd Coring, Rick Pukenas, Nelson Adams
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney   
   Gary Smith, Public Safety Director/Police Chief
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   John Allen, Community Development Specialist
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Dove called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Poole welcomed everyone and gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Poole led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Public Comment
   Ms. Bonnie Thomas, 5122 Prices Creek Drive, past president of the Southport
Women’s Club, announced that the annual middle and high school art show would
be held Tuesday, February 2, 4:00 – 7:00 p.m. in the Community Building.
E)   Approval of Agenda
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to approve the
agenda.  Unanimous vote; motion carried.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Dove stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
F)   Announcements
   Alderman Pukenas read the Resolution Honoring the 40th Anniversary of the
Southport Historical Society into the record.
   Alderman Adams motioned, second by Alderman Poole to adopt the resolution.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   The resolution was presented to Ms. Musette Steck, President, Southport
Historical Society and other members attending the meeting.
Resolution Honoring the 40th Anniversary of the Southport Historical Society
WHEREAS, the Southport Historical Society was established 40 years ago (1976)
by founders Eleanor Smith and Susie Carson; and
WHEREAS, the mission of the Historical Society is to bring together persons
interested in the history of Southport, promote a better appreciation of our
heritage and to discover and collect materials which illustrate the history of
the area; and
WHEREAS, the Society cooperates with city officials in the preservation of the
city’s records and archives and encourages the preservation of historic
buildings, monuments and markers; and
WHEREAS, the present membership of the Southport Historical Society is 170 with
plans to add at least 40 more members during the anniversary year; and
WHEREAS, the Society distributes a quarterly newsletter, “The Whittler’s
Bench”; and
WHEREAS, the Society has developed a museum at the Old Brunswick County Jail
and has cooperated on displays in the City Museum; and
WHEREAS, the Society funds annual scholarships to high school seniors; and
WHEREAS, the Society provides critical assistance in the preservation of the
18th Century Old Smithville Burial Grounds; and
WHEREAS, the Society conducts an annual Christmas Tour of Homes; and
NOW THEREFORE, I, J.V. Dove, Mayor of the City of Southport, NC and the Board
of Aldermen, hereby congratulate the Southport Historical Society on 40 years
of service to our City and the surrounding communities.
ADOPTED, this 14th day of January 2016 by the Southport Board of Aldermen.
                        /s/ J.V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk  
G.   Special Recognition
   Resolution Honoring Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Celebration
   The City Clerk read the Resolution into the record.
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Powell to adopt the resolution.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Alderman Adams accepted the resolution on behalf of the Dr. Martin Luther
King Jr. Celebration Committee.
CITY OF SOUTHPORT
RESOLUTION
HONORING DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING JR. CELEBRATION
WHEREAS, the Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Celebration Committee was formed and
entrusted with the responsibility to plan a community wide celebration to
appropriately honor this great leader; and
WHEREAS, Dr. Martin Luther King Celebration Committee has selected the dates of
Sunday January 17 and Monday January 18, 2016 to hold this celebration with
events scheduled to include youth programs, a march and a roundtable breakfast,
and
WHEREAS,  the Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Celebration has established a mission
statement in which its most important goal is to bring people of the community
together for the purpose of promoting good will and harmony for the betterment
of the entire community; and
WHEREAS, it is extremely important that the great works and deeds of Dr. Martin
Luther King, Jr. be duly remembered, honored and recognized in this most
fitting and proper way.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Mayor and Board of Aldermen of
Southport recognizes January 17-18, 2016 as the official dates of celebration
by the Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Celebration Committee and encourage all
citizens to participate in the activities scheduled.
Adopted the 14th day of January 2016.
                          /s/ J.V. Dove, Mayor
(Attest) /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
H.   Swearing In of Mayor Pro Tem
   Alderman Coring was sworn in as Mayor Pro Tem by Mayor Dove.
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Powell to approve the consent
agenda. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
1.   Minutes for December 15, 2015 Regular Meeting – approved   
2.   Jonas Creek Preliminary Plat, Phase 2A & 2B – approved   
3.   Budget Amendment #11- approved   
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1660.gif]
Budget Amendment
Fiscal Year 2015-2016
Budget Amendment #11
WHEREAS the City of Southport had an emergency sewer main repair in the
Cottages at Prices Creek
Subdivision and the Homeowners Association will reimburse the town for the
repair, and;
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2015-2016 needs to be amended to
reflect the increase in revenue and the increase in maintenance and repairs for
the Water & Sewer Department;
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2015-2016 shall be
amended as follows:
Water & Sewer Department
Miscellaneous Revenue         Increase
31-3839-0000               $34,248
Expenditures
R/M Sewer Collection System      Increase
31-7130-3506               $34,248
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, January 14, 2015
                           /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor   
/a/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
AGENDA
   4.   Use of Garrison Grounds and Community Building for Smithville Black
History Program (Fund Raiser for Lord Street Gym Project)
   Mr. Donnie Joyner, 635 Jabbertown Road, and Chairman of the Black History
Committee, announced that the 4th annual Black History Month would be observed
February 5, 6, & 7. He talked about the events planned.
   Friday, February 5:   
   *   program in the Community Building entitled Harriet Tubman and The
Underground Railroad including The United States Colored Troop reenactors
   Saturday, February 6:
   *   exhibits of black culture
   *   program on the history of blacks who served in the military
   *   panel discussion
   *   WLAC radio program
   Sunday, February 7:
   *   Gospel Fest
   *   Jazz Fest/Super Bowl Party
   Mr. Joyner explained that a fee would be charged for the Jazz Fest/Super
Bowl Party with all funds raised donated to the City for the Lord Street Gym
Project. He pointed out that all other events are free to the public. Mr.
Joyner asked permission to use the Fort Johnston Garrison grounds and Community
Building for the event.
Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to approve the request.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   5.   Unified Development Ordinance Text Amendment, Article 15, Section 15-8:
Small Lot Cluster Development
   Mr. Allen reviewed the proposed text amendment. Responding to Alderman
Powell, he stated that stormwater controls would have to meet the Southport
Stormwater Ordinance. He pointed out that shared driveways were being
emphasized throughout the development to help reduce impervious coverage.
   Alderman Mosteller voiced her support for the amendment noting that it will
encourage diversity of affordable housing. She noted that the development can
only apply in multi-family zoning. She stated that the Planning Board
recommendation was based on review of several cities with similar development
regulations.
   Alderman Mosteller motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to adopt the
ordinance approving a text amendment to the Unified Development Ordinance.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
AN ORDINANCE APPROVING A TEXT AMENDMENT TO THE
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
   THAT WHEREAS, the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance and other
land use ordinances that control land development within both the City’s
incorporated areas and within its extraterritorial area; and
   WHEREAS, in order to promote the public health, safety and general welfare
and to promote the best interest of the city and community, it is necessary for
the City Board of Aldermen from time to time to consider appropriate revisions,
modifications and additions to the city’s land use ordinances; and
   WHEREAS, City Staff, in conjunction with the Planning Board, has prepared
the proposed amendment to Section 15 of the Southport Unified Development
Ordinance; and
   WHEREAS, the Planning Board has thoroughly considered this matter and finds
the proposed amendment to the Unified Development Ordinance to be consistent
with the City of Southport CAMA Core Land Use Plan and recommend its approval;
and
   WHEREAS, pursuant to N. C. General Statutes and city ordinances, a public
hearing, properly noticed, was held on December 15, 2015, before the Board of
Aldermen regarding this issue; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen, after considering the public hearing
response and the recommendation of the Planning Board, hereby find that this
proposed amendment to the Unified Development Ordinance is consistent with the
Southport CAMA Core Land Use Plan; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that this amendment is
reasonable and in the public interest in that (i) this type of use is not
addressed in the Unified Development Ordinance and should be, (ii) this
amendment is necessary to promote orderly growth and development in the Multi-
Family District, and (iii) will meet the needs of a population diverse in age,
income, household composition and individual needs through encouraging a
variety of housing types and price points, innovation and variety in housing
design and site development.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that the
attached amendment to Section 15 of the Southport Unified Development Ordinance
is hereby approved and adopted.
This, the 14th day of January, 2016               City of Southport
                     BY: /s/ J.V. Dove, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
Section 15-8: Small Lot Cluster Development
Small lot cluster development is a type of detached housing providing small
residences for smaller households. Such “cottage” housing is provided as part
of the city’s overall housing strategy, which seeks to meet the needs of a
population diverse in age, income, household composition, and individual needs
through encouraging a variety of housing types and price points, innovation and
variety in housing design and site development.
Small lot cluster development standards are intended to create a small
community of cottages that is pedestrian- friendly, provides for pedestrian
amenities, minimizes impervious surfaces, and takes advantage of natural
features on the site. The development standards are intended to maintain
traditional cottage amenities and proportions while ensuring that small lot
cluster developments contribute to the overall community character. Small lot
cluster developments are encouraged to use low-impact development techniques to
the greatest extent possible.
   (A)   This section shall apply only to parcels less than 10 acres that are
zoned Multi-Family (MF).
   (B)   The minimum lot size is 5,000 square feet.
   (C)   The following minimum set back restrictions shall apply:
      (1)   Front Yard: 10 feet
      (2)   Side Yard: 6 feet
      (3)   Rear Yard: 5 feet from an unattached accessory structure; 20 feet
from principal structure
   (D)   No principal structure shall have a total “footprint” greater than
fourteen hundred (1,400) square feet. No principle structure shall have a
maximum heated square footage greater than eighteen hundred (1,800) square
feet. Open covered walkways, open covered porches on the front elevation and
first floor covered open or screen porches on the rear elevation shall not be
included in the calculation of either heated square footage or “footprint”. An
unattached accessory structure shall not be included in either the calculation
of the total heated square footage nor the “footprint”; however, the total
“footprint” of an unattached accessory structure shall not exceed five hundred
and thirty (530) square feet.
   (E)   No principal structure shall include an attached garage or accessory
structure.
   (F)   Unattached accessory structures shall be limited to a maximum area
above the first floor of three hundred and fifty (350) square feet.
Additionally, a Conditional Use Permit shall be required in order to install
plumbing lines or fixtures in an unattached accessory structure.
   (G)   Dimensional and Orientation Requirements
      (1)   Maximum building height of a principle structure shall be thirty-
five (35) feet. Structures shall be designed to be single-story, single-story
plus a loft, story and a half or two-story. Maximum building height of an
unattached accessory building shall be twenty-five (25) feet.
      (2)   All principle structures shall be provided with a covered porch
oriented towards the front yard to create a private outdoor space protected
from the weather and provide a transition from the interior private residential
space to the semi-public outdoor space. Covered porches shall be usable in both
design and dimension.
      (3)   Principal structures shall have a covered main entry porch with a
floor area measuring at least seventy-five (75) square feet in area.
      (4)   The floor of the covered main entry porch shall have minimum
dimensions of not less than eight (8) feet in any direction (length or width).
      (5)   All principle structures shall be oriented to avoid blank walls or
appear to have a “back” towards streets.
   (D)   Small lot cluster development housing may be developed on individual
lots or with a common form of ownership (townhouse or condominium-style), with
all units within a development on a single lot.
   (E)   In order to minimize impervious surface area, driveways shall be
shared whenever possible.
   Small lot cluster developments shall be designed to incorporate existing
trees and natural features into the site design, to the extent possible.
Structures shall be located so as to minimize the removal of existing trees,
especially large “specimen” trees, and to maximize natural stormwater
functions. As soils allow, small lot cluster developments shall be designed to
take advantage of open space, landscaped features, and natural areas to utilize
low-impact development techniques, including natural filtration and on-site
infiltration of stormwater.
6.   Consideration of Contracting Architectural and Engineering Services for
201 E. Moore Street
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to defer consideration
until after the tour of city facilities scheduled for Saturday, January 16.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
7.   Closed Session Pursuant to N.C.G.S. 143-318.11(a) (3).
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to go into Closed
Session. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Return to Open Session
   Alderman Adams motioned, second by Alderman Coring to return to open
session.  Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Mayor Dove reported that the Board received information from the city
attorney regarding a civil lawsuit filed against the City by the estate of
Keith Vidal. He stated that no action was taken by the Board.
Board Comments
Alderman Adams reported that an engineering inspection was made of the Lord
Street Gym and he is awaiting the report on the condition of the roof trusses.
Alderman Coring publicly thanked all responders to a fire at Carillon Assisted
Living.
Mayor Dove announced that the annual Martin Luther King Jr. events would be
held Sunday, January 17 and Monday, January 18. He encouraged all to attend.
Recess – 7:35 p.m.
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Coring to recess the meeting to
Saturday, January 16, 9:00 a.m., at Fire Headquarters, 1011 N. Howe Street.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.  
                        /s/ J.V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
JANUARY 16, 2016
FACILITIES TOUR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN FACILITIES TOUR SESSION MINUTES
                 JANUARY 16, 2016
                 SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Karen Mosteller, Todd Coring,
            Jim Powell, Rick Pukenas
ABSENT:         Alderman Nelson Adams
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Randy Jones, Interim Tourism Director
   David Fox, Public Services Director
   Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
   Maureen Moore, Parks & Recreation Program Supervisor
Call to Order – 9:00 a.m.
   Mayor Dove called the meeting to order at 9:00 a.m.
   By means of the Parks and Recreation Department bus, the Board toured
municipal properties.
Fire/Rescue Substation - 111 E. Nash Street
   Assistant Fire Chief, Todd Coring, guided the tour of the Fire Department
substation on E. Nash Street which formerly housed the Southport Rescue Squad.
He explained that with the recent merger of the fire and rescue departments to
Fire Headquarters at 1011 N. Howe Street, the renovations needed to the
substation would be approximately $25,000 for interior paint, carpet, restroom
upgrades, replacement of bay light fixtures, exterior doors painted, roof
repairs and electrical work. He indicated that the work had been quoted with a
local contractor. He pointed out that the substation would house three (3)
support vehicles for a presence in the downtown area. He added that a security
system with card access would be installed.
Bill Pay Terminal
   The Board looked at two (2) possible locations for a drive up electric bill
pay terminal. City Manager McDuffie suggested an area in the parking lot at the
rear of 201 E. Moore Street or along the Dry Street side of the Police
Department.
Police Department – 201 E. Moore Street
   Joined by Police Chief Gary Smith, the Board toured the first floor of the
former city hall. Chief Smith pointed out water damaged areas and pointed out
the need for a new door on the evidence room (former vault) due to safety
concerns. Responding to Alderman Mosteller, Chief Smith stated he currently had
two (2) vacancies in the department and would have enough space for staff if
the area was redesigned.
   City Manager McDuffie showed the Board the termite damage to the front porch
which has resulted in closure of the area for public access. Mayor Dove
emphasized the need for the Police Department to have a top quality facility.
   City Manager McDuffie advised the Board that he had received verbal notice
from the tenants of the second floor of City Hall, 1029 N. Howe Street, that
they may want to negotiate a reduced lease for one half of the floor area when
the lease is due for renewal December 31, 2016.
   Alderman Pukenas questioned if city facilities were under contract for
termite treatments. Public Works Director Fox to research and respond.
Community Building – 223 E. Bay Street
   The Board stopped briefly at the Community Building and members asked about
establishing a schedule for painting the facility.
Fort Johnston Garrison – 203 E. Bay Street
   Interim Tourism Director, Randy Jones, emphasized to the Board the condition
of the 200+ year old bricks and the pressing need for them to be sealed and
pointed. He stated the last seal and point of the bricks was performed in the
1980’s and the maintenance is supposed to be performed every 15 years. He noted
the expense of such a project and suggested a capital campaign. He indicated
the interior floors are scheduled to be refinished in 2016, the front door
needs to be replaced, he is proposing sunlight filters on the windows in the
2016-2017 budget along with a rearrangement of the welcome area and a reduction
in retail merchandise. Mr. Jones also suggested up lighting the front exterior
of the building.
Parks & Recreation – 209 N. Atlantic Avenue
   Parks & Recreation Director, Heather Hemphill, gave the Board a tour of the
central office for the department. She spoke about the After School Program
which accommodates 40 participants, Summer Camp and recent repairs to the
building. The Board joined Ms. Hemphill in the gym and heard that it is the
only indoor public gym in the County with 230 participating in the Youth
Basketball League.
Jaycees Building & Senior Building - 311 N. Fodale Avenue
   Ms. Moore explained to board members that the facility was used for city
sponsored activities such as aerobics, dance, cha-cha fitness and rented out
for event. It was noted that the Senior Building was also a rental and used
specifically for senior activities. Ms. Hemphill pointed out that maintenance
of the facilities was funded by the Parks & Recreation budget.
City Dock – Yacht Basin
   The Board inspected the City Dock and heard a report from Ms. Hemphill to
the projected cost for dredging in order to use the 8 – 10 boat slips currently
unusable during low tide. Ms. Hemphill discussed the recent submittal of a
grant, explaining that the grant was denied because the proposal to add three
(3) transient slips was not enough to satisfy the provisions of the grant.
Former Wastewater Treatment Facility - 901 W. West Street
   Board members toured the former site of the wastewater treatment plant.
Public Works Director, David Fox, explained the former treatment process and
why the State ordered the plant decommissioned. He showed members the areas of
the site continuing to be used for storage; i.e. Christmas wreaths and new
utility poles.
Central Pump Station – W. Leonard Street & Burrington Avenue
   Aldermen Mosteller and Pukenas, along with City Manager McDuffie and Mr.
Jones were given a comprehensive description of the components and operation of
the central pump station by Mr. Fox.
Lunch – 12:20 p.m.
   City Manager McDuffie asked the Board to consider a sidewalk and crosswalks
project from 9th Street to 12th Street in the 2016-2017 budget.
Bill Payment Terminal - 720 N. Fodale Avenue
   Board members viewed the proposed location of a drive thru bill payment
terminal on Fodale Avenue next to the city’s electric substation and across the
street from Dosher Hospital. City Manager McDuffie stated that staff recommends
the location which is better for pedestrian traffic than other proposed sites,
along with availability of required fiber optic cables.
   Aldermen Mosteller, Coring, Powell & Pukenas voiced their opinions that the
site was the best and safest location. Alderman Coring motioned, second by
Alderman Pukenas to install the bill payment terminal on the Fodale Avenue
site. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
441 Acres – Sunny Point Road
   The Board was driven to the city owned property along the Military Ocean
Terminal Sunny Point access road. During the drive, Alderman Powell pointed out
the city’s sewer district. He explained that four (4) basins had been dug on
the city’s site to provide dirt to the North Carolina Department of
Transportation (NCDOT) for the newest Oak Island bridge. The Board discussed
the cost and timeframe for building a wastewater treatment facility.
Public Works – 1010 N. Howe Street
   Garage
   Mr. Fox provided a tour of the vehicles and equipment used by the department
of 16 employees. He explained that he oversees the operation and maintenance of
the city’s infrastructure, i.e. water, sewer, streets, city buildings,
cemeteries, grounds and electric system. Alderman Powell suggested a
replacement program for the department’s vehicles.
   Load Management
   Mr. Ellie Pittenger, Load Management Coordinator, presented an overview of
the load management program, emphasizing the four levels of rates available
depending on the number of switches installed. He pointed out that a customer
can get an 8.5¢ per kWh rate with implementation of all switches. Mr. Pittenger
explained that 50% of the city’s electric cost happens at peak and the highest
peak ever experienced was in January 2015. Mr. Pittenger added that he has had
123 requests for the new highly efficient two-way load management switches that
are expected to arrive in March. Alderman Powell and Mosteller suggested
increased public outreach. Mr. Pittenger indicated a review of switches
currently in use was performed in 2012:
   *   612 hot water heater
    *   73 pending
   *   379 heat strips
   *   359 HVAC cycling
   *   103 HVAC total control
Mr. Pittenger encouraged upgrading to LED lighting on the street lights.
   AMI Project
   Mr. Paul Woodall, Utilities Specialist, reported that the contract had been
signed, purchase orders cut and water meters would be ordered for the automated
metering infrastructure (AMI) project. He stated it is anticipated that the
infrastructure will be set up mid-March with 100% of the project completed in
May. He indicated that 200 remote disconnect meters are ordered along with
additional stock parts. He noted that technology is not yet available for pre-
pay water similar to pre-pay electric. He added that updates to the system are
on the annual contract.
   City Manager McDuffie pointed out there is a 10 year warranty on the
batteries and a suggested 20 year replacement of batteries and meters. Mr.
Woodall stated the system will allow easy access to actual usage and
notification of a possible leak.
   City Manager McDuffie reminded the Board that replacement of all water
meters will start in early March, replacement of all electric meters will begin
in March and the city’s financial software will be implemented in February. He
emphasized that notices will go out on utility bills, special mailings and
information will be posted on the city’s web page.
Board Comments
   Alderman Coring requested replacement of the “no parking” signs on the fence
along the Dry Street side of the water tank. Alderman Coring motioned, second
by Alderman Poole to direct staff to put up the no parking signs. Unanimous
vote; motion carried.
Recess - 4:00 p.m.
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Powell to recess the meeting to
Saturday, January 23, 2016, 8:45 a.m. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
                        /s/ J.V. Dove, Mayor
Attest:   /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
JANUARY 23, 2015
RETREAT MINUTES
 
1011 N. HOWE STREET RETREAT MINUTES
FIRE HEADQUARTERS   JANUARY 23, 2015
1011 N. HOWE STREET SOUTHPORT, N.C.
PRESENT:      Mayor J.V. Dove
         Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Karen Mosteller, Nelson Adams
         Jim Powell, Todd Coring, Rick Pukenas
STAFF PRESENT:   Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
         Michele Windham, City Clerk
         Gayle Jones, Deputy City Clerk
         Gary Simmons, Police Sergeant
         Charles Drew, Fire Chief
         Randy Jones, Interim Tourism Director
         Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
         Vickie Potter, Community Building Coordinator
         David Fox, Public Works Director
         Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
         B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
         John Allen, Community Development Specialist
Call to Order - 9:00 a.m.
   Mayor Dove called the meeting to order.
Invocation
   Alderman Poole welcomed everyone and led the assemblage in the Lord's Prayer
and Pledge of Allegiance.
Adoption of the Agenda
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to adopt the agenda.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Closed Session - 9:09 a.m.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to enter closed session
pursuant to G.S. 143-318.11(a)(1) to discuss confidential information under
G.S. 159B-38 and N.C.G.S. 143-318.11(a)(6) for discussion of personnel issues.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Return to Regular Session - 10:03 a.m.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to come out of closed
session. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Mayor Dove announced that the Board met in closed session with a
representative of the North Carolina Eastern Municipal Power Agency (NCEMPA) to
receive an update on the coal ash removal by Duke Energy Progress and to
receive information from the city manager pertaining to employee salary
adjustments.
DEPARTMENTAL REPORTS
(Complete reports on file in the Clerk's office)
Tourism Department - Randy Jones
   Mr. Jones thanked the Board, city staff and citizens for making him feel
welcome, the support and encouragement, and the assurances that Tourism is
important for Southport. He emphasized the Tourism Department Vision Statement:
City of Southport envisions our town being a premier tourist destination,
retaining and showcasing the values, heritage, culture and the natural beauty
Southport has to offer and Mission Statement: The Department of Tourism has a
mission to foster, develop and promote a sustainable tourism industry for
Southport.
   Mr. Jones discussed working with other local historical organizations in
planning and developing exhibits, partnering/networking with community groups
on ongoing and new events and outreach activities, develop a "branding
campaign" to attract a sustainable flow of tourists by concentrating on a day
trip tourist base within a 100 mile radius and implementing monthly tourism
roundtable meetings.
   Mr. Jones reviewed proposed options for the Museum Store, Garrison House
repairs and maintenance, supporting filming activities and development of a new
City of Southport Website.
   Mr. Jones praised the Visitor's Center volunteers noting that they were
Southport's best ambassadors.
Fire Department - Chief Drew
   Chief Drew provided a handout of the department's accomplishments for 2015.
He emphasized the training and certifications achieved through classes held at
the station and at Brunswick Community College. He discussed the health of
volunteerism in Southport with 26 new volunteers; (13 firefighters, 13 EMS
division). He reviewed the number of calls responded to, response time and
pointed out that 15-18 members respond on each call with an average 4-6 minute
response time.
   Chief Drew discussed the goal of equipping the department for industrial
calls noting there are four (4) industrial plants in the area. To that end, the
department was awarded a $10,000 grant to help purchase equipment specific to
industrial responses.
   Chief Drew pointed out that the department is in the process of updating
Automated External Defibrillators (AED) stations and had received $40,000 worth
of equipment from a local company for that purpose. He stated a map of AED
locations will be produced for distribution and advertisement.
   Chief Drew reported that the department's fleet was in good shape and it is
not anticipated any requests will be made for upgrades in the next fiscal year.
   Chief Drew indicated the department had tested and serviced 450 hydrants and
13,000 feet of fire hose.
   Goals/Project
   Chief Drew emphasized the department's preparation for the ISO inspection,
the first in 15 years. He reported that the renovations to the former rescue
squad station had been quoted at $25,000 vs. the once quoted half million
dollars. He stated that Deputy Chief Johnson is in the process of getting
quotes for replacement of cardiac monitors.
   Chief Drew stated that getting the EMS division uniformed is a departmental
goal. He indicated that the EMS Division is talking with Dosher Memorial
Hospital about doing patient transfers which will bolster revenue.
   Chief Drew pointed out that the majority of the department's budget is based
on fire fees collected but some changes will be realized with the Fire/Rescue
merger. He stated that part-time assistance will be added in Fire Inspections
and secretarial help is needed along with staffing of the station when squads
are responding to calls. He stated that a small increase to the call stipend
(likely $5) will be proposed in the FY 2016-2017 budget.
   Chief Drew stated there is interest in the department to start a small scale
water rescue program.
   Long Range Goals
   Chief Drew stated that long range goals of the department are getting the
EMS division certified at a paramedic level and securing property in the
Rivermist subdivision to establish a future substation for better coverage of
the area.
Planning - John Allen
   Mr. John Allen reviewed the 2015 accomplishments of the Community
Development/Planning Department, pointing out his support to the Waterfront
Steering Committee and representation of the City on the Regional Hazard
Mitigation Committee and the Oak Island Area Economic Development Committee. He
indicated that the Southport-Oak Island Chamber of Commerce started the
economic development committee to assist in recruitment and retention of
retailers. Mr. Allen stated he had sold $22,243.52 worth of surplus vehicles
and equipment and had obtained a grant from Electricities to have a Phase I
environmental assessment conducted on the old wastewater treatment plant. Mr.
Allen outlined the 2016-2017 goals, emphasizing a planned review and update of
the Unified Development Ordinance (UDO) and the rezoning of parcels zoned
business district (BD) behind the parcels fronting the Howe Street business
district. He explained that the BD zoning encompasses properties beyond those
fronting Howe Street that are residential. He cited instances where parcels and
houses have split zoning.
Inspections-Wayne Strickland
   Mr. Strickland presented an annual report for the Building Inspections
Department. He reported that the Rivermist subdivision is built out and the
Cades Cove subdivision will be in the near future. He reviewed the permitting
and valuation of 93 single family residences, 20 commercial structures, 703
electrical, mechanical and plumbing permits, and 4,012 corresponding
inspections. He highlighted the updates of the Zoning Map and permitting fees
and certification of the Community Rating System (CRS). Mr. Strickland stated
he anticipates completion of an appeal to Federal Emergency Management Act
(FEMA) pertaining to Letters of Map Amendments (LOMA) for Rivermist and
adjustments to Bonnet's Creek floodway. He outlined the department's goals for
2016, specifically the purchase of a wide format printer/copier and long term
goals to digitize permitting files and update software programs.
   Mr. Strickland announced that he is nearing retirement age and encouraged
consideration of hiring a trainee replacement.
City Clerk - Michele Windham
   Ms. Windham presented a report of the 2015 accomplishments of the City
Clerk's Office, emphasizing the completed preservation of one large volume
minutes book dated 1925 through 1954 and 14 Code of Ordinance updates. She
pointed out that additional books are scheduled to be preserved in 2016. She
noted that she and the Deputy City Clerk were participating in North Carolina
Association of Municipal Clerks (NCAMC) and School of Government training
opportunities. She highlighted future goals of the department to improve
meeting recording equipment and electronic management of all records. Ms.
Windham shared plans to host a regional NCAMC conference in the upcoming years.
Human Resources - Michele Windham
   Ms. Windham reported that Human Resources Technician, Teresa Parker-Mosley
accomplished her 2015 goals; implementation of new H.R. software that
integrates the employee time clock system. Ms. Windham pointed out that Human
Resources endeavors to develop a uniform pay plan classification and job
descriptions for all positions, along with continued attendance in training
opportunities offered by the School of Government.
Community Building - Vickie Potter
   Ms. Potter presented a list of 13 needed repairs and maintenance totaling
$41,170. She also proposed a new day-rate fee adjustment to rent the building,
six-hour block min. $1,800 ($300 per hour), 12-hour block $3,900 ($325 per
hour) for non-residents and $1,800 ($150 per hour) for 12 hours for residents
and city employees. She stated she proposed the new rates to keep the building
profitable. She pointed out that the building is booked every Saturday until
November and booking has begun for 2017.
   Alderman Adams stated his concerns that the cost estimates for repairs were
too high and the proposed rates would be unaffordable for city residents.
   Alderman Powell stated his opinion the facility should be self-sustaining.
The Board delayed action on Ms. Potter's rate adjustment request until a future
meeting.
Parks and Recreation - Heather Hemphill
    Ms. Hemphill reported that a 2015 Underserved and Limited Resources
Communities Grant (ULRC) for $50,000 was awarded to help with planning and
engineering costs associated with the Lord Street Gym Project and application
was made for a 2016 Department of Environmental & Natural Resources (DENR)
Boating Infrastructure Grant (BIG) for upgrades at the City Boat Dock. Ms.
Hemphill highlighted the activities the department offers; fitness, senior
activities, athletics and special events such as Capt. Charlie's Fishing
Tournament, Crab Derby, Summer Camps, Easter Egg Hunt, and Santa's Workshop to
name just a few. Ms. Hemphill emphasized the needs to dredge the boat dock
pointing out that 8 - 10 slips are inaccessible during low tide. Ms. Hemphill
noted the renovations to the Lord Street Gym are dependent on the
sustainability of the metal roof trusses. She indicated her 2016/2017 budget
request would include the purchase of a transit van.
   Ms. Hemphill stated long term goals include construction of a recreation and
athletic complex at the 9th Street property or a recreation center at Lord
Street Gym and an athletic complex at 9th street property.
Finance Department - Melanie Trexler
   Ms. Trexler presented an update on the installation of the city's new
financial software; payroll live for the first payroll in February, purchase
orders and accounts payable live March 1, utility billing target date live July
1. She provided an analysis of the 2015 fire fees and expenditures, general
funds & enterprise funds operating cash balances, governmental funds balance
activity, proprietary funds balance activity and a proposed FY 2016-2017 Budget
Schedule.
   Ms. Trexler stated she expects the city auditors to deliver a report at the
February board meeting. She suggested a rearrangement of the lobby area for
better customer service and security. She also recommended starting an annual
fund, as was taken up by the city before Christmas last year, to help needy
citizens that struggle with their utility bills.
Lunch - 12:25 p.m.
Return to Session - 1:12 p.m.
Brunswick Electric Membership Corporation (BEMC)
   Mr. Tim Tippett and Ms. Deborah Fish with Brunswick Electric Membership
Corp. (BEMC) gave a presentation detailing specifics of the city's electric
system. They sought direction and emphasis on putting lines underground. They
updated the Board on the schedule for the electric meter change out. The Board
requested copies of the PowerPoint presentation for further review.
Public Works Department - David Fox
   Mr. Fox reviewed the 2015 accomplishments of the Public Works Department:
replaced control panels, installed pumps, replaced generators and rehabbed lift
stations throughout the city; repaired sewer main on Firefly Lane; replaced all
stop signs; initiated the Automated Metering Infrastructure (AMI) and Electric
Prepay projects while continuing the Load Management Program; replaced vehicle
#255 and purchased two (2) new trucks for the Buildings & Grounds Division.
   Mr. Fox presented an overview of the department's divisions, i.e. Water &
Sewer, Buildings & Grounds, Streets, Electric, Garage, Solid Waste, their
purposes and human resources associated with each.
   Mr. Fox reviewed in detail a two year funding and equipment requests for
each division.
Police Department - Sgt. Mike Simmons
   Sgt. Simmons delivered the department's report, underscoring the successful
year: two new certified training officers, a new patrol vehicle, new laptop
computers installed in all patrol vehicles, purchased 12 body cameras for
Patrol Division with a grant from the governor's crime commission, installed in
car video systems in four patrol cars. He stated the programs for 2015-2020 to
be continued include community policing, citizen service programs including
house checks, We Care citizen program and chaplaincy program.
   Sgt. Simmons stated the department wants to add 5 part-time reserve
officers, purchase two new pistols for issuing to reserve officers, purchase
lock out kits, jumper cables for each vehicle, and continue software upgrades.
He reviewed Chief Smith's concerns that the current building housing the
department was never designed to function as a police department and the space
assessment study recommended a new facility. Chief Smith's report further
stated that the security at the department is very poor and needs upgrades to
assure the safety of the civilian personnel in case a threat arises.
Administration - Kerry McDuffie
   City Manager McDuffie requested direction from the Board on a percentage for
a Cost of Living Allowance (COLA) for FY 2016-2017 budgetary calculations. He
suggested 1.9%. Board consensus to use the 1.9% for budget preparations.
Alderman Adams requested a breakdown of each employees wage with the 1.9%
increase reflected.
   City Manager McDuffie talked about health care insurance concerns; contract
period is July 1 thru June 30 while the deductible is based on a calendar year,
going to the State plan would be permanent, coverage for nine (9) pre-65
retirees would not be available on the State plan which would require the city
to carry a costly stand-alone policy. The City Manager was directed to get
estimates on policies for joining the State plan, for retirees and for a Health
Savings Plan (HSA).
   City Manager McDuffie stated he had met with Dosher Memorial Hospital CEO,
Tom Seeber, to discuss a 50/50 partnership to install a sidewalk from 9th
Street to 11th Street.
   The Board took no action on the architectural contract submitted by Cape
Fear Architecture, PA for schematic design, cost estimate, construction
documents, bidding and construction administration for the 201 E. Moore Street
building renovation.
Board Comments
   Alderman Adams stated appreciation for the work of the Public Works Building
& Grounds division in keeping trash picked up around town.
   Alderman Poole commented that Northwood Cemetery looked very nice.
Adjournment - 4:00 P.M.
   Meeting adjourned upon motion of Alderman Powell, second by Alderman Adams.
Vote unanimous; motion carried.
                        /s/ J.V. Dove, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
FEBRUARY 11, 2016
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING FEBRUARY 11, 2016
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Karen Mosteller, Jim Powell,
            Todd Coring, Rick Pukenas, Nelson Adams
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
            Michele Windham, City Clerk
            Mike Isenberg, City Attorney   
            Gary Smith, Public Safety Director/Police Chief
            Charles Drew, Fire Chief
            David Fox, Public Works Director
            Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
            Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
            B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
            Randy Jones, Interim Tourism Director
A)   Call to Order - 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Dove called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Adams welcomed everyone and gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Adams led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Public Comment
   Ms. Kelley Sellers handed out photographs of standing water around her
mother's home at 215 Fodale Avenue. Ms. Sellers provided correspondence of past
requests in 1999 and 2005 to the Board asking for help to alleviate the
problem. She referenced letters from Mayor Holden, City Manager Rob Gandy and
Public Works Director, Jim Henry regarding projects the city would undertake to
alleviate the poor drainage conditions. Stating her opinion that nothing has
been done, Ms. Sellers asked that the city do what they promised.
   Dr. Joe Pat Hatem, 610A West Brown Street, read lines from Robert Ruark's
The Old Man and The Boy. He proposed holding an annual Robert Ruark Writer's
Conference in February beginning in 2017, the 60th anniversary of the book
publication. He stated the conference would encourage young aspiring writers.
He asked the Board to consider a proclamation in support of the endeavor.
   Mr. Donnie Joyner, 635 Jabbertown Road, and Chairman of the Black History
Committee, thanked all those supporting and attending the 4th annual Black
History Month events held February 5, 6, & 7 at the Community Building and on
the Fort Johnston lawn.
E)   Approval of Agenda
   City Manager McDuffie requested additions to the agenda: a request to the
Planning Board to review the height restrictions for accessory buildings,
consideration of a request to the North Carolina Department of Transportation
(NCDOT) to remove passing zones on E. Moore Street, consideration of a request
to NCDOT to place traffic signals in flashing mode late at night and, have a
discussion about the proposal from NCDOT pertaining to relocation of electric
lines during the NC 211 widening project.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to approve the agenda
as amended. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Dove stated, "If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time."
F)   Announcements
   City Manager McDuffie announced that the water automated meter
infrastructure (AMI) project was moving forward and additional information
would be sent to customers. He also announced that the electric meter
replacement project was on schedule for the end of March and signup for prepay
must be made by March 7. He added that notices had been mailed to all electric
customers and he asked for citizens' patience during the transition.
   Alderman Adams suggested holding a public informational meeting on the
electric prepaid program.
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Poole to approve the consent
agenda. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   1.   Minutes of January 14, 2016 Regular Meeting including Closed Session -
approved
      Minutes of January 16, 2016 Recessed Meeting - approved
   2.   Tourism Department Action Plan 2016 & Job Descriptions - approved (plan
on file in the Clerk's office)
   3.   Budget Amendment #12; Public Works Salaries - approved
   4.   Budget Amendment #13; Fire Department, EMS Division Grant - approved
   5.   Budget Amendment #14; Caswell Avenue Community Garden - approved
Budget Amendment
Fiscal Year 2015-2016
Budget Amendment #12
WHEREAS the City of Southport wishes to raise the salaries of the Water & Sewer
department
And;
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2015-2016 needs to be amended to
reflect the increase in salaries and benefits and decrease the expenditure
capital outlay equipment;
   BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2015-2016 shall be
amended as follows:
Water & Sewer Department
Salaries & Benefits      Increase
31-7130-0000         $ 9,300
31-7310-0700          465
31-7310-0900          930
31-7130-1000          651
31-7130-1400          290
Total             $11,636
            Decrease
Capital Outlay - Equipment    ($11,636)
31-7130-5100     
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, February 11,
2016.
                     /s/ J.V. Dove, Mayor
/s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
Budget Amendment
Fiscal Year 2015-2016
Budget Amendment #13
WHEREAS the City of Southport received a Grant from Cape Fear Memorial
Foundation to the Southport Fire Department; EMS Division for the purchase of a
cardiac monitor for the new first responder vehicle,
And;
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2015-2016 needs to be amended to
reflect the increase in revenue and increase in the expenditure R/M Equipment;
   BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2015-2016 shall be
amended as follows:
Fire Department / EMS Division
Revenue          Increase
10-3437-0300         $ 4,000
Expenditures         Increase
10-4370-3500         $ 4,000
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, February 11,
2016.
                     /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
/s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
Budget Amendment
Fiscal Year 2015-2016
Budget Amendment #14
WHEREAS the City of Southport has received $6,400 in Caswell St Community
Garden rent revenue
And;
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2015-2016 needs to be amended to
reflect the increase in revenue and increase in the expenditures for Finance
Department ;
   BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2015-2016 shall be
amended as follows:
Finance Department
Revenue          Increase
10-3437-0300         $ 6,400
Expenditures         Increase
10-4140-3901         $ 6,400
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, February 11,
2016.
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
/s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
AGENDA
   6.   Audit Presentation
   Auditor Menton Padgett of the accounting firm Berry, Padgett and Chandler
presented the June 30, 2015 audit report. Noting that the Board had just
received it, he advised them on how to read it and encouraged them to come to
his office with questions. He referred the Board to the management's discussion
and analysis as a positive summary of the city's financial condition. He
highlighted the accounting policies used, reviewed fund balances, budgetary
statements and explained new pension reporting requirements. He emphasized that
revenues and expenditures continued to increase along with cash-on-hand in the
electric, water and sewer funds which were up over previous reporting periods.
Additionally, he pointed out that the city had no bonded debt. (Report on file
in the Clerk's office)
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Poole to accept the audit.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Powell to amend the auditor
contract to February 28. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   7.   Consideration of Request to Accept the Roads of Phase I of Jonas Creek
   Public Works Director, Mr. Fox, stated he had received a request from Carver
Rudolph, Manager/Developer, Cottage Point LLC for the City to accept the
streets Mackenzie Circle and Quartermaster Drive of Jonas Creek Phase I. Mr.
Fox indicated he had inspected the roadways and found that they had been
constructed to approved plans. He recommended acceptance of the streets pending
submittal of a one-year warranty bond.
   Alderman Adams stated his opinion that a one-year bond was not long enough.
Alderman Poole suggested putting consideration of extending the bond period on
a future workshop agenda.
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Coring to approve the request to
accept the streets of Phase I of Jonas Creek pending payment of a warranty
bond. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   8.   Appointment to Planning Board
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Powell to appoint Mr. Oliver
Landis, 302 River Drive, to the Planning Board. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   9.   Beautification Committee Requests
   Beautification Committee Chair, Ms. Shirley Snyder, presented a request to
reconstruct the drinking fountain in Keziah Park using committee resources and
funds.
   Alderman Mosteller motioned, second by Alderman Coring to approve the
Beautification Committee request to rebuild the base and, if need be, replace
the basin of the water fountain at Keziah Park. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Ms. Mary Friend presented a plan to install landscaping around the new
public restrooms using committee resources and funds.
   Alderman Adams raised safety concerns about putting shrubbery at the rear of
the building.
   Police Chief Smith stated his opinion that six foot tall plants at the rear
of the building would be too high and would provide a place for someone to
hide. He said that knee high plants would be better and that he would review
the plan in order to provide his recommendation.
   There was discussion about keeping the plantings properly watered. Consensus
was that the Beautification Committee would purchase and install a soaker hose
and timer on the hose bib at the Fire Department Substation. It was anticipated
that use of the hose and timer would be for a one year period.
   Alderman Mosteller motioned, second by Alderman Powell to permit planting to
proceed on the front and sides of the restrooms and postpone planting in the
rear until approved by the Police Chief. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   10.   Accessory Structure Height Limits
   Alderman Adams stated he had received complaints about the 40' permitted
height of an accessory building. He added that the location of the structure in
question gave the appearance it was much taller than the 20' reported by the
Building Inspector.
   Alderman Adams motioned, second by Alderman Poole to direct the Planning
Board to review heights permitted for an accessory structure. Unanimous vote;
motion carried.
   11.   Request to NCDOT to Eliminate Passing Zones on East Moore Street
   City Manager McDuffie reported a concern had been brought to him regarding
vehicle passing zones on E. Moore Street. He asked if the Board would like
staff to request the North Carolina Department of Transportation remove the
passing zones before permanent stripping is done on the newly resurfaced
street.
   Police Chief Smith stated he would look at the passing zones before
commenting.
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to submit a request to
the NCDOT if the Chief of Police concurs with the recommendation. Unanimous
vote; motion carried.
   12.   Request to NCDOT for Flashing Lights
   City Manager McDuffie reported that he had received a request to put the
traffic signals at Howe and Moore Streets and Howe and 9th Streets in flashing
mode, instead of cycling, after 11:00 p.m.
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Poole to adopt a resolution
requesting certain action by the NCDOT. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
A RESOLUTION REQUESTING THE NORTH CAROLINA
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION TO PLACE CERTAIN
TRAFFIC LIGHTS IN FLASHING MODE
WHEREAS, the citizens of the City of Southport and all those who visit,
appreciate and enjoy the unique history, charm and appeal that the Southport
area offers; and
WHEREAS, the safe use of roads and highways is of upmost importance to not only
the citizens of Southport, but also to our visitors from this great State and
other states and countries; and
WHEREAS, Howe and Moore Streets are state-maintained roads; and
WHEREAS, there are traffic signals at the intersections of Howe and Moore
Streets and Howe and 9th Streets; and
WHEREAS, between 11:00 PM and 5:00 AM, traffic volumes are very low in
Southport and the normal operation of the traffic signals is therefore
unnecessary for public safety; and
WHEREAS, if the traffic signals were set to a red/yellow flashing pattern, it
would allow the few vehicles on the road to move about more easily.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport,
North Carolina, that the City of Southport requests that the North Carolina
Department of Transportation place the traffic signals at Moore and Howe
Streets and at Howe and 9th Streets on a red/yellow flashing pattern between
the hours of 11:00 PM and 5:00 AM.
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, February 22,
2016.
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: s/s Michele Windham, City Clerk
   13.   NCDOT 211 Widening
   City Manager McDuffie reported that NCDOT officials had advised that they
would pay $200,000 to relocate Southport's electric lines overhead along the NC
211 widening project. He pointed out that NCDOT would not pay to place the
lines underground.
   Alderman Powell and Adams supported continued negotiations with NCDOT for
placement of the lines underground at their expense. Board consensus for the
city manager to continue negotiations with NCDOT.
   14.   Set Date/Time for Board Workshop for Setting Board Priorities
   Saturday, March 5, 9:00 a.m. was set for a Board workshop. The meeting will
be held in the Fire Department Emergency Operations Center (EOC) at 1011 N.
Howe Street.
   15.   Police Department Relocation
   City Manager McDuffie reported that staff was considering options for
relocation of the Police Department out of 201 E. Moore Street.
   16.   Whittler's Bench
   City Manager McDuffie stated that staff was considering installation of a
planter in the center of the parking lot at the foot of S. Howe Street. He
pointed out that vehicles are parking in that area and blocking others.
   Alderman Coring agreed that action needed to be taken and he suggested
revisiting the adopted Waterfront Plan. The Board agreed to place consideration
of the proposal on the March 5th workshop agenda.
Board Comments
   Alderman Adams presented an update on the proposed Lord Street gymnasium
renovation project. He stated that he had received an assessment from Norris &
Tunstall Consulting Engineers, PC regarding the structural integrity of the
roof. Alderman Adams asked for the subject to be added to the March 5th
workshop agenda.
   Mayor Dove reported that he had met with Ms. Karen Williams, a
representative of Duke Energy regarding mutual aid agreements and their
possible interest in the Lord Street gym project.
   Alderman Coring stated his appreciation for the Black History Month events.
He thanked city staff for their hard work assisting citizens with flooding
issues during the recent heavy rains.
   Alderman Mosteller asked the Board to host a public forum to discuss the
future of the old City Hall, 201 E. Moore Street. She contended that it would
be helpful to explore how to utilize the building, the alternatives,
possibilities, potential uses and consequences of any decision. She suggested
having Chris May of the Cape Fear Council of Government facilitate the meeting.
   Board consensus for Alderman Mosteller to determine available dates to hold
the meeting.
   Mayor Dove echoed Alderman Coring's thanks to city staff, congratulated Ms.
Ivory Parker for being awarded the 2016 Rev. Walter Welsh Award, and he stated
appreciation for the Brunswick County Sheriff's Department/State Port Pilot
series of articles on the dangers of heroin.
   Mayor Dove stated he had attended a meeting at Brunswick Community College
concerning the Lord Street satellite campus, the programs projected and
possible uses of the undeveloped space.
   Alderman Coring questioned what the next step would be for the Tourism
Department. City Manager McDuffie responded that a Tourism Director would be
hired.
Recess - 7:45 p.m.
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to adjourn the
meeting. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
                         /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
MARCH 5, 2016
WORKSHOP SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN   WORKSHOP SESSION MINUTES
FIRE STATION        MARCH 5, 2016
1011 N. HOWE STREET SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Karen Mosteller, Jim Powell,
            Todd Coring, Rick Pukenas, Nelson Adams
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Gayle Jones, Deputy City Clerk
   David Fox, Public Works Director   
   Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
   Randy Jones, Tourism Director
A)   Call to Order – 9:00 a.m.
Mayor Dove called the meeting to order at 9:00 a.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Pukenas welcomed everyone and gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Pukenas led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Approval of Agenda
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to approve the agenda.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Dove stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
E)   Announcements
   City Manager McDuffie reported that the electric meter change out was on
schedule to begin installation on March 14. He stated that the new water meters
were being installed on commercial accounts. He reported that the new payroll
and finance software had been implemented.
   Responding to Alderman Powell, City Manager McDuffie stated that all
electric account information had been transmitted to Brunswick Electric
Membership Corp. (BEMC) and the transition would be as seamless as possible for
all customers. He indicated that the electric pre-pay terminal would be
operational prior to the issuance of utility bills on April 20.
   Alderman Pukenas thanked city staff for setting up the public presentation
on the electric and water meter change out.
   Alderman Poole announced that the Friendship Missionary Baptist Church would
be holding a prayer breakfast on Saturday, March 12 at 9:00 a.m.
AGENDA
   1.   Whittler’s Bench Parking
   City Manager McDuffie presented a staff recommendation and a variation on
the adopted Waterfront Plan to address the parking issues at the Whittlers
Bench parking area. He outlined the proposed plan to install a concrete
planting median in the parking area with six (6) to eight (8) diagonal parking
spaces. He indicated that a catch basin would be replaced to tackle drainage
problems.
   The Board discussed the availability of water for care of the plantings in
the median and the required handicapped parking spaces.
   Alderman Pukenas suggested coordinating the paving with the contractor
tasked with the repaving of the Yacht Basin area.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to proceed with paving
of the Whittlers Bench parking area, installing a landscape median
approximately 10’ wide x 40’ long, replacing the catch basin, lining of parking
spaces in conformance with the NCDOT Uniform Traffic Control Manual and to
coordinate the work with the Yacht Basin paving project.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.  
   2.   Lord Street Gymnasium
   Pointing out that the Board had seen the engineering assessment on the steel
roof trusses, Alderman Adams asked the Board to make a decision on the Lord
Street Gymnasium renovation project. He noted that the fundraising effort was
behind, but he said one reason was the uncertainty of the structural integrity
and the city’s commitment. He emphasized the opportunity to have a civic
center, theater and larger recreational facility. He challenged the Board to
have a long range vision as previous Boards did when rebuilding the USO
(Community) Building.
   Aldermen Poole and Pukenas agreed that the building should be saved.
   Alderman Powell contended that the structure could be torn down and a new
one built for half of the cost quoted to renovate it. He pointed out that water
and sewer infrastructure throughout the city is also in need of upgrading.
   City Manager McDuffie pointed out that the college expects a new roof to be
on the building by July, 2017. He also said that building permits have to be
filed and approved by December 2018 prior to State building code changes that
would prohibit the rehabilitation due to the building’s structural make-up.
   Alderman Coring declared that he had continually supported the project. He
stated concerns that the city has multiple projects underway and he stressed
the need to prioritize. He stated his opinion that the city has already
committed to rehabilitating the gym as has the gym committee to raising money
for the project. He added that tearing down the building would go against the
historic significance of the structure.
   Mr. Donnie Joyner, gym committee member, stated he had commitments from the
community but many were hesitant to give money until the project moves forward.
He stated a facility that could host trade shows and events would draw people
to Southport.
   Mayor Dove recalled partnering with citizens of the city to rebuild the USO
Building when it was destroyed by fire in 1995. He spoke about the theory of
diminishing returns while encouraging the Board to make a decision and
afterwards to have a maintenance plan to ensure that city buildings do not fall
into disrepair in the future.
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Coring to authorize $48,000 to
do the preliminaries (cleaning, scraping, structural assessment) on the Lord
Street Gymnasium roof trusses.
   Discussion
   Alderman Powell asked if the motion could include instructions to staff to
research the deed to determine if the city could build on the site.
   Alderman Poole did not modify her motion.
   Ayes:   Aldermen Poole, Coring, Adams, Mosteller, Pukenas
   Nay:   Alderman Powell
   Motion Carried 5-1
   3.   201 E. Moore Street
   City Manager McDuffie reported that an account of the February 29th Town
Hall public meeting regarding the future of the former City Hall had not been
submitted from the facilitator of the meeting, Chris May, Cape Fear Council of
Government.
   Alderman Mosteller stated her assessment of the comments from the meeting
that expressed a clear mandate for a commitment to put a roof on the building
to halt further decline and deterioration and to relocate the Police
Department.
   Mayor Dove stated he took copious notes of what citizens stated with most
wanting the structure preserved as part of the city’s historic history. He
noted that the building was never designed to be a police department.
   Alderman Adams expressed support for relocating the police department,
putting a new roof on and taking time to consider the direction to proceed with
the building.
   Alderman Poole pointed out that the Board had previously authorized
replacement of the roof but issues arose that delayed the work. She fully
supported putting on a new roof.
   Alderman Pukenas stated his opinion that the police department needs to get
out of the building as quickly as possible and that replacement of the roof is
of vital importance to stop decline.
   Aldermen Coring and Powell agreed.
   City Manager McDuffie explained that the bid received from a Wilmington
based contractor was less than one year old and he would contact them to
determine if they would still honor it.
   Alderman Mosteller motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to proceed with the
roof replacement at 201 E. Moore Street in an amount not to exceed $225,000.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   4.   Police Department Relocation
   The Board discussed concerns about the condition of the Police Department
and came to a consensus to move the department to the former Visitors’ Center,
113 W. Moore Street as soon as possible.
   5.   Wells Fargo Lease of 1029 N. Howe Street
   City Manager McDuffie explained that the lease for the second floor of City
Hall was set to expire December 20, 2016. He indicated that the tenants, Wells
Fargo, have two (2) 5-year options for renewal. He stated a Wells Fargo
representative had approached him about revising the lease for one- half of the
square footage at a reduced rate and with two (2) 3-year extensions. City
Manager McDuffie stated that staff’s recommendation is to direct Wells Fargo
that they must lease the entire floor for the 5-year renewal, at the current
rate, or the city will not renew.
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Powell for all or nothing, with
no extensions, as recommended by staff. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   6.   Electrical Underground Priorities
   City Manager McDuffie presented a recommendation for setting directives for
BEMC to proceed with installation of underground electric service. He suggested
that the Operations and Maintenance Supervisor of BEMC determine the priority
of projects based on the following:
   1.   Age of infrastructure
   2.   Number of customers impacted
   3.   While attempting to underground from the substation out
   4.   Cost effectiveness
   City Manager McDuffie stated that each year a set amount would be budgeted.
He noted that the 2015-2016 funds had been used for the electric meter change
out.
   Alderman Mosteller recommended adding a 5th item to the criteria list that
would safeguard the trees. It was agreed to add: 5. Tree Protection as stated
in the City Code of Ordinances.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Poole to accept staff
recommendation for the electrical underground priorities including addition of
#5 to the list of criteria.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   7.   City Boat Dock
   Parks & Recreation Director, Heather Hemphill, told the Board that the
condition of the City Boat Dock had reached a point where a decision had to be
made. She stated she had applied for a boating infrastructure grant that was
not awarded because not enough slips were dedicated to transient boaters. She
stressed the need to dredge, noting that many slips were not useable at low
tide. She discussed three options:
   1.   Do nothing.
   2.   Reapply for the grant with dedication of the majority of slips to
transient boaters.
   3.   Pay for dredging and renovations with a loan to be paid back with boat
slip rentals.
   Ms. Hemphill pointed out that in order to meet the requirements for the
grant, and reach the minimum 6 foot depth for slips 5 - 26 at low tide, 1,600
cu. yds. would have to be dredged and hauled to a spoil site. She estimated the
cost at $37,000 - $47,000 with a total cost up to $70,000 to include removal to
a spoil site.
   City Manager McDuffie stated that the city would have to charge $1,800 per
year, per slip to recoup the costs. He pointed out that the current annual
income is $24,000. He noted that Southport Marina charged by the linear foot.
   After hearing Alderman Adams’ position, Board consensus to re-apply for the
grant with the understanding that a larger ratio of boat slips would have to be
converted to transient slips.
   8.   Consideration of Request from Brunswick County for Sewer Service at
Smithville Park
   City Manager McDuffie stated that Brunswick County had asked to provide
their own sewer service in the City’s sewer territory at Smithville Park and to
become a city customer.
   Alderman Powell said he didn’t see a problem with the County tapping into
the 12” force main as long as the tap was not considered the city’s allocation
per the current sewer agreement with them.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Poole to provide metered sewer
service to Smithville Park, making the County a city customer and the tap would
not be considered a city tap.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   9.   Subdivision Maintenance Guarantee
   Alderman Adams stated that he had requested consideration of extending the
maintenance guarantee from one (1) year to eighteen (18) months to ensure more
protection for the city when accepting infrastructure in a subdivision. He
cited occurrences in the past when problems with the infrastructure surfaced
after the one year period.
   Alderman Powell contended that a performance bond would better serve the
city, noting that in the past 30 years there had been just one or two
subdivisions that had resulted in problems for the city.
   Alderman Adams indicated he would withdraw the request for consideration
while reserving the right to bring it before the board in the future if a
subdivision caused problems for the city.
   10.   Set Priorities   
   Mayor Dove stated one of his priorities would be to see sidewalks in the
area of J. Arthur Dosher Memorial Hospital. City Manager McDuffie advised that
he had received a quote for $12,500 for design and DOT submittals for the
project. He stated he plans to approach the CEO of the hospital regarding
funding a portion of the project. He indicated he would put the project in the
FY 2016-2017 budget proposal for the board’s consideration.
   Alderman Poole asked about the status of correcting the erosion on the
waterfront. City Manager McDuffie indicated that John Allen would provide an
update at the Board’s regular meeting.
   Alderman Mosteller inquired about additional odor control filtration at the
Burrington Avenue sewer lift station. Public Works Director, David Fox,
responded that he had a blower that filters the exhaust before releasing into
the atmosphere, in the 2016-2017 budget.
   Alderman Adams stated he would like to see the deteriorating valve station
at Clarendon Avenue and Leonard Street addressed. Mr. Fox said that the station
is not functional and can be eliminated.
   Citing safety concerns, Alderman Adams requested a meeting be arranged with
State delegates to continue pursuit of a traffic signal on Howe Street in the
vicinity of Stuart Avenue.
   Commenting on witnessing an individual with a dog in a wheelchair while in
the middle of N. Howe Street, Alderman Mosteller asked about a safe pedestrian
path to Walmart. City Manager McDuffie indicated that the city has a 60 ft.
right-of-way at The Ridge Subdivision and is pursuing an easement from
adjoining landowner, Roy Daniels.
   Referring to the Parks, Recreation and Open Space Master Plan and the
unprecedented amount of work the Parks and Recreation Department does, Alderman
Mosteller suggested analyzing the need for another position in the department
and ways to implement the Plan. Additionally, she proposed a summit meeting of
various civic leaders, i.e. Downtown Southport Inc. (DSI), Historical Society,
Garden Club, Beautification Committee, etc. to focus on working together on
citywide projects. She noted that the Tourism Department has planned a local
businesses summit in April. Board consensus was to see what results come out of
the Tourism summit before setting a date for an additional summit.
   Alderman Mosteller shared her opinion that the proposal to adjust the rental
rates for the Community Building as presented at the January 23rd Retreat
seemed reasonable and would provide for the much needed repairs and continued
maintenance of the facility. She pointed out that in 2014 there were 54 City
sponsored events, 60 non-profit events, 45 citizens rented the building in
addition to wedding and other event rentals.
   Alderman Poole stated she could not support raising the Community Building
rates to a level that a majority of citizens could not afford to pay. She
emphasized that the citizens, businesses and organizations paid to rebuild the
building when it burned in 1995. She noted that the rental agreement prohibits
subletting.
   Responding to Alderman Coring, City Manager McDuffie told the Board that in
order to enforce two (2) hour parking in the city, a sign stating the
limitation must be in front of the parking slip. He stated options would be to
add signs or modify the ordinance to reflect what is currently posted. He added
that a parking schedule is maintained in the Police Department. Board consensus
to modify the ordinance and place on the April consent agenda for approval.
   City Manager McDuffie reported that the fire substation renovation would go
slightly over the $25,000 budget because replacement ceiling grids could not be
purchased and the electrical contractor quoted the work without looking in the
electrical box. There were no objections from the Board.
   Board consensus for staff to put together a listing of city properties not
being used for consideration of surplusing.
Board Comments
Alderman Poole thanked the city manager and staff for the background
information provided in the agenda packets.
Adjourn – 12:45 p.m.
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to adjourn the
meeting. Unanimous vote; motion carried.  
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
MARCH 10, 2016
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING MARCH 10, 2016
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Karen Mosteller, Jim Powell,
            Todd Coring, Rick Pukenas, Nelson Adams
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney   
   Gary Smith, Public Safety Director/Police Chief
   Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
   Randy Jones, Tourism Director
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   John Allen, Community Development Specialist
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Dove called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Pukenas welcomed everyone and Ms. Jane Koontz, Trinity United
Methodist Church gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Pukenas led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Public Comment
   Ms. Dee Crocker, 116 W. St. George Street spoke about a conceptual plan for
a ceremony that would be held nightly at Waterfront Park beginning May 23rd and
running through September 11. She explained that with the lowering of the U.S.
Flag, Taps would be blown by a live bugler and God Bless America may be played
from a recording or sung. She expressed her hope that the ceremony would grow
to involve Veteran’s flags. She indicated a meeting of the local group
proposing the ceremony would be held Friday, March 11th and the group would be
bringing the proposal back to the Board at their April Board meeting.
E)   Approval of Agenda
   City Manager McDuffie requested addition to the consent agenda of a
Resolution Requesting the North Carolina Department of Transportation To Set a
Speed Limit of 45 miles per hour on Rob Gandy Boulevard.
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Powell to approve the agenda as
amended.  Unanimous vote; motion carried.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Dove stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
F)   Announcements
   City Manager McDuffie announced that the city wide electric meter
replacement would begin Monday, March 14 with anticipated completion by March
31.
   City Manager McDuffie stated that the water Automated Metering
Infrastructure (AMI) project is underway with commercial meters being changed
out and residential meter change out expected to start later in the month. He
indicated the project would take approximately four (4) months to complete.
   City Manager McDuffie updated the Board on the status of the Yacht Basin
area and Waterfront Park paving projects.
   City Manager McDuffie advised the public that the temporary bridge across
9th Street for drainage purposes would be removed by March 18. He stated that a
contract had been let for repair of the drainage problem.   
   City Manager McDuffie announced that the Mayor’s Citizen meetings held on
the third Thursday of the month would be relocated to the Fire Station, 1011 N.
Howe Street along with meetings of the Planning Board and Board of
Adjustment.   
   Mayor Dove reminded everyone of the Southport Spring Festival to be held
March 25 & 26 in Franklin Square Park.
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to approve the consent
agenda. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Minutes for January 23, 2016 Retreat Meeting including closed session –
approved
   Minutes for February 11, 2016 Regular Meeting - approved
Budget Amendment #15; Public Works Emergency Drainage Costs – approved
Budget Amendment #16; Lord Street Gym – approved
Budget Amendment #17; Beautification Committee – approved
Budget Amendment #18; Donations for Utilities Customers – approved
   Resolution Requesting the North Carolina Department of Transportation To Set
a Speed Limit of 45 miles per hour on Rob Gandy Boulevard – approved
Budget Amendment
Fiscal Year 2015-2016
Budget Amendment #15
WHEREAS the City of Southport had Emergency drainage costs throughout the city
and we need to appropriate fund balance to cover the expenditures,
And;
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2015-2016 needs to be amended to
reflect the increase in the expenditures for the Street Department;
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2015-2016 shall be
amended as follows:
Street Department
General Fund Balance Appropriations          Increase
10-00-3991-0000                  $19,100
Expenditures                     Increase
10-05-4511-3502                  $19,100
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, March 10, 2016.
                           /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
/s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
Budget Amendment
Fiscal Year 2015-2016
Budget Amendment #16
WHEREAS the City of Southport needs an appropriation of fund balance to cover
the expenditure to engage engineering services of $2,208 for the Lord St Gym
roof repair analysis,
And;
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2015-2016 needs to be amended to
reflect the increase in the expenditures for Parks and Recreation Department to
use those funds;
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2015-2016 shall be
amended as follows:
Parks & Rec
General Fund Balance Appropriation   Increase
10-00-3991-0000         $ 2,208
Expenditures            Increase
10-80-6120-1800         $ 2,208
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, March 10,
2016.         
                           /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor      
/s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk   
Budget Amendment
Fiscal Year 2015-2016
Budget Amendment #17
WHEREAS the City of Southport has received $3,816 in additional donations for
the purpose of purchasing Christmas Wreaths and lights,
And;
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2015-2016 needs to be amended to
reflect the increase in revenue and increase in the expenditures for Buildings
and Grounds Department for the Beautification Committee bringing their total
for fund raising available to $33,811;
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2015-2016 shall be
amended as follows:
Buildings & Grounds
Revenue          Increase
10-3833-0005         $ 3,816
Expenditures         Increase            
10-4190-3502         $ 3,816   
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, March 10, 2016.
                     /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor      
/s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
Budget Amendment
Fiscal Year 2015-2016
Budget Amendment #18
WHEREAS the City of Southport has received $1,440 in donations for the purpose
of helping our most neediest customers with utilities bills,
And;
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2015-2016 needs to be amended to
reflect the increase in revenue and increase in the expenditures for the
Finance Department;
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2015-2016 shall be
amended as follows:
Buildings & Grounds
Revenue          Increase
10-00-3833-0005      $ 1,440
Expenditures         Increase
10-4140-2600         $ 1,440
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, March 10, 2016.
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
/s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
Resolution Requesting the North Carolina Department of Transportation to Set a
Speed Limit of 45 miles per hour on Rob Gandy Boulevard
WHEREAS, a portion of Rob Gandy Boulevard, a state road, is located within the
municipal limits of the City of Southport; and
WHEREAS, the City of Southport has determined pursuant to G. S. 20-141(f) that
a higher maximum speed than that set forth in G.S. 20-141(b) is reasonable and
safe; and
WHEREAS, the Southport Board of Aldermen hereby determines and declares that 45
mph is a safe and reasonable speed limit on said road;
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that the speed
limit on Rob Gandy Boulevard within the City of Southport be set at 45 mph and
that the State enact a concurring ordinance.
This the 10th day of March, 2016.
                  City of Southport
/s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
AGENDA
   7.   Request to Sponsor the Military Appreciation Day Event
Mr. Hank Pomeranz, a Southport resident, small business owner, retired Navy,
and President of the Southport Chapter of Military Appreciation Day, Inc., a
non-profit 501C3 organization, introduced an initiative to declare one day a
year as Military Appreciation Day. He explained that the event would be held on
September 10th and geared towards thanking active duty troops and their
families with a day of fishing provided by local fishermen. He stated the event
would showcase at Southport Marina with games included for children and a lunch
provided by volunteers. He pointed out that Southport has helped the
organization in the past and he asked for a donation to assist with the cost of
a banner.
The Board took no action on the request.
   8.   Piedmont Natural Gas Presentation
   Ms. Kathy Pleasant, Piedmont Natural Gas, spoke to the Board about the
challenges in bringing natural gas to the community. She pointed out that
additional infrastructure is required to provide gas to existing commercial and
neighborhood areas of the city versus installing infrastructure in a new
development. She stated that since first providing gas to Dosher Hospital and
the Southport Elementary School in 2011, the service has been expanded to
Indigo Plantation, Harbor Oaks, Smithville Woods, Cades Cove and The Landing.
She said the company is currently working on projects on the west and east side
of Howe Street and hopes to eventually provide natural gas to restaurants along
the waterfront. She asked for patience through the process, noting that most
Southport projects have taken two years to become feasible for the company to
undertake.
   Responding to a query by Alderman Mosteller, Ms. Pleasant stated that
typically a 40% commitment of households in a neighborhood is needed to obtain
project feasibility.
   In response to a question by City Manager McDuffie, Ms. Pleasant indicated a
gas line could not be included in joint trenching. She added that Piedmont
Natural Gas does not do fracking. She stated that the increased availability of
natural gas will drive the price lower.
   9.   Consideration of Franklin Square Park “Walk of Honor”
   Mr. Stanley Mandel discussed establishing a Walk of Honor in Franklin Square
Park with first honoree P.D. Midget, a 30 year resident, musician and pastor.
Mr. Mandel stated his vision of a committee of citizens and Aldermen to decide
others to be honored.
   Alderman Mosteller pointed out that the Old Southport Jail on E. Nash Street
has a brick paver path that honors citizens.
   Mr. Mandel indicated that Franklin Square Park had been chosen because P.D.
had performed there and had his art displayed at the Franklin Square Art
Gallery.
   Alderman Pukenas motioned, second by Alderman Powell to establish a
committee to set criteria and to recommend where done.
   Discussion
   Alderman Adams questioned locating the memorial in Franklin Square Park and
he cautioned against fragmenting memorials throughout the city.
   Alderman Poole concurred with Alderman Adams and reminded the Board that
other groups had submitted similar requests and they had been denied. She
stated that such proposals should be launched by an outside source and not
established by the Board.
   Both Alderman Adams and Poole went on record stating their respect for P.D.
Midgett.
   Alderman Coring agreed with Alderman Adams while noting that a memorial for
firefighters had been proposed at the former location of the Fire Station on E.
Nash Street.
   Aye:   Aldermen Pukenas and Powell
   Nay:   Aldermen Mosteller, Poole, Coring, Nelson
   Motion Failed.
   10.   Update on Waterfront Improvement Project
   Mr. Allen updated the Board on the status of the Waterfront Improvement
Project. He reminded the Board that the project is two parts: shoreline
stabilization and waterfront park and area improvements. He stated the current
focus is on the erosion control. He indicated he had been in frequent
communication with Mike McIntyre and Glenn Dunn of Poyner & Spruill who have
contacted the following entities on the city’s behalf:
United Stated Department of Agriculture, Rural Development
US Army Corp of Engineers
NC Division of Coastal Management
Duke Energy
Golden Leaf Foundation
   Mr. Allen stated that he has submitted the “Request for Environmental
Scoping” to the NC Department of Administration, has provided information
regarding the project to The Golden Leaf Foundation, is preparing a preliminary
grant application for submittal to the NC Division of Coastal Management’s
“Public Beach and Coastal Waterfront Access Program Grant”, and has met with
the US Department of Agriculture’s Rural Development staff in regard to a
possible loan. He indicated he plans to contact Duke Energy about a possible
grant from their foundation.
   11.   Request to Accept Infrastructure: Norseman Loop in Rivermist
   City Manager McDuffie reported that the Public Works Department had
evaluated the street and recommends acceptance pending submittal of a one year
warranty bond.
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Coring to accept the
infrastructure of Phase IV, Norseman Loop, upon submittal of a one year
warranty bond, as recommended by staff. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   12.   Beautification Committee Presentation
   Ms. Shirley Snyder, Chair of the Beautification Committee, presented a brief
slide show reviewing the committee’s activities from January 2015 to the
present. She recognized those committee members and volunteers present in the
audience, noting that there are 80 people who regularly volunteer. She
indicated that remaining funds from the Christmas wreath campaign will go
towards purchase of additional wreaths for display in the Yacht Basin Area and
on Bay Street. She reviewed calculations of the value of the volunteers’
service. Ms. Snyder submitted a $5,795 budget request for FY 2016/2017.
Board Comments
Alderman Mosteller thanked everyone for participating in the recent Town Hall
meeting. She thanked the Beautification Committee for all they do for the city.
Alderman Coring stated the Fire Department had completed the Insurance Service
Office (ISO) inspections and were awaiting results. He pointed out that fire
hydrants throughout the city had been painted specific colors to denote the
water pressure of each hydrant.
Alderman Powell talked about the two (2) hour parking limit on W. Moore Street
and how it could be enforced. Attorney Isenberg advised that proper parking
limit signs have to be erected and be reasonably noticeable for enforcement.
Responding to a query from Alderman Pukenas, Mr. Isenberg gave an example to
the Board for designating an area as two hour parking between the hours of 9:00
a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Aldermen Adams and Poole stated their opinions that two hours
was not enough time for visitors to explore Southport. It was the consensus of
the Board not to change or add any signs but to have the Ordinance reflect what
is currently displayed on the streets.
Alderman Poole recognized and complimented city staff. She also recognized the
Dosher Memorial Hospital staff, employees and volunteers for exemplary service
to Southport.
Alderman Pukenas praised those who volunteer for the city. He stated that he
has seen the volunteers in Southport do more for the community than in any
other place he has lived.
Adjourn – 7:15 p.m.
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Coring to adjourn the meeting.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.  
                           J.V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: Michele Windham, Clerk
APRIL 14, 2016
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING APRIL 14, 2016
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Karen Mosteller, Jim Powell,
            Todd Coring, Rick Pukenas, Nelson Adams
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney   
   Gary Smith, Public Safety Director/Police Chief
   David Fox, Public Services Director
   Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
   Randy Jones, Tourism Director
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   John Allen, Community Development Specialist
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Dove called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Mosteller welcomed everyone and Reverend Samuel J. Spicer, Friendship
Baptist Church, gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Mosteller led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Public Comment
   Ms. Irene Hankins, 403 W. St. George Street, spoke about the Brunswick
Senior Resources Center. She emphasized that the non-profit agency had been
providing services to Brunswick County seniors since 2002. She pointed out that
the center offers:
over 100 social, educational, health and arts programs a year
over 34 direct to client services (transportation, home delivered meals,
caregiver support)
an average of 50 home delivered meals a day
an average of 45 congregate lunches a day
has over 5,000 registered participants
over 350 people visit the center daily
Medicare counseling
has over 100 volunteers.
She asked the Board to consider a contribution of $1,000 a month to help
broaden programs and services.
   Ms. Yvonne Moody, 609 Marsh Grass Court, announced that the 2nd annual
NatureFest would be held Saturday, April 30th and would include a pancake
breakfast, nature tours, boat & kayak tours and a scavenger hunt for children
along with “Tim the Pelican.”
   Ms. Gail Ballard, 1060 Robert Ruark Drive, thanked the Mayor and Board for
recognizing the J. Arthur Dosher Memorial Hospital nurses and staff.
   Mr. Joe Bellio, 122 Yacht Basin Drive, expressed his displeasure with the
quality of work of the recent resurfacing of the street in front of his
business. He contended that the cost was excessive, unfair and that a four inch
trip hazard had resulted. City Manager McDuffie asked Mr. Bellio to come to his
office to discuss the issue further.
   Mr. John Dean and Ms. Laura Fairley with Barrier Island Excursions announced
a paddleboard event to benefit Sea Biscuit Wildlife Shelter. Mr. Dean stated
that there would be a stand up paddleboard race on the Cape Fear River,
Saturday, May 7th. He outlined the two race options: beginner race from Fort
Fisher to Southport Yacht Basin, advanced race from Carolina Beach to Southport
Yacht Basin. He stated he had coordinated with the Coast Guard, had local
sponsors and a low country shrimp boil would follow the race.    
E)   Approval of Agenda   
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Powell to approve the agenda.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Dove stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
F)   Announcements
   Mayor Dove announced that Mayor’s Day would be held Thursday, April 21, 4:00
– 6:00 p.m. at the Fire Department training room.
   Mayor Dove announced that the National Day of Prayer would be observed by
city staff on Thursday, May 5th, 1:00 p.m. at the Fire Station.
   Mayor Dove thanked the Board for supporting the Yacht Basin resurfacing
project. He thanked Alderman Powell for overseeing the work.
   Mayor Dove announced that the Southport/Oak Island Little League Baseball
season would kick off Saturday, April 16th, 10:30 a.m. He encouraged all to
support youth sports.
   Alderman Mosteller reminded everyone of the Southport Songwriters Festival
to be held April 18th through 24th.
   City Manager McDuffie announced that the city wide electric meter
replacement was complete and the bill payment terminal is expected to be
operational by May 2. He stated that 600 water meters had been changed out to
date.
G.   Special Recognition – Resolution Recognizing May 9, 2016 as J. Arthur
Dosher Memorial Hospital Nurses Day
   Alderman Mosteller motioned, second by Alderman Poole to adopt the
Resolution Recognizing May 9, 2016 as J. Arthur Dosher Memorial Hospital Nurses
Day.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Mayor Dove read the Resolution and presented it to those nurses attending
the meeting.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1660.gif]
RESOLUTION IN RECOGNITION OF J. ARTHUR DOSHER MEMORIAL HOSPITAL NURSES
WHEREAS, the nearly 3.1 million registered nurses in the United States comprise
our nation’s largest health care profession; and
WHEREAS, the depth and breadth of the nursing profession meets the different
and emergency health care needs of the American population in a wide range of
settings; and
WHEREAS, the cost-effective, safe and quality health care services provided by
nurses will be an ever more important component of the U.S. health care
delivery system in the future; and
WHEREAS, the American Nurses Association has declared the week of May 6 - 12 as
NATIONAL NURSES WEEK with the theme Delivering Quality and Innovation in
Patient Care; and
WHEREAS, the nurses of J. Arthur Dosher Memorial Hospital have provided
essential lifesaving medical service to the citizens of Southport and the
surrounding communities since the opening of the hospital in 1928; and
WHEREAS, the nurses of J. Arthur Dosher Memorial Hospital are an integral part
of our health care system providing unselfish care to the citizens of Southport
and the surrounding area of Brunswick County; and
WHEREAS, the nurses of J. Arthur Dosher Memorial Hospital have a long history
of dedicated service to the citizens of Southport;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that J. V. Dove, Mayor of the City of
Southport, and Board of Aldermen recognize the importance of their contribution
to the health and well-being of all citizens and do hereby proclaim May 6, 2016
as
 “J. ARTHUR DOSHER MEMORIAL HOSPITAL NURSES DAY”
This 14th day of April 2016
                     /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
Alderman Coring read a resolution in recognition of Municipal Clerks Week.
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to adopt the resolution.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Resolution
Municipal Clerks Week
May 1 – 7, 2016
Whereas, Municipal Clerks week is May 1 – 7, 2016, and
Whereas, The Office of the Municipal Clerk, a time honored and vital part of
local government exists throughout the world, and
Whereas, The Office of the Municipal Clerk is the oldest among public servants,
and
Whereas, The Office of the Municipal Clerk provides the professional link
between the citizens, the local governing bodies and agencies of government at
other levels, and
Whereas, Municipal Clerks have pledged to be ever mindful of their neutrality
and impartiality, rendering equal service to all.
Whereas, The Municipal Clerk serves as the information center on functions of
local government and community.
Whereas, Michele Windham serves as City of Southport Clerk and has been
employed by the City of Southport since December 12, 2003, and
Whereas, It is most appropriate that we recognize the accomplishments of the
Office of the Municipal Clerk.
Now, Therefore, be it resolved that the Southport Board of Aldermen, do
Recognize the week of May 1 through May 7, 2016, as Municipal Clerks Week, and
further extend appreciation to our Municipal Clerk, Michele Windham for the
vital services performed and exemplary dedication to the City of Southport.
Dated this 14th day of April, 2016
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to approve the consent
agenda.
Discussion
   Alderman Adams recommended amending item #8 by changing the number of
parking spaces at the Police Department from four (4) to two (2).
   Alderman Powell withdrew his motion.
   Alderman Adams motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to amend the consent
agenda by amending #8 to 2 spaces. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Poole to approve the consent
agenda as amended. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.   
Minutes for March 5, 2016 Workshop Meeting– approved
Minutes for March 10, 2016 Regular Meeting - approved
Budget Amendment #19; Police Department Relocation – approved
Budget Amendment #20; Lord Street Gym – approved
Request to Permit use of Waterfront Park and Flag Pole Every Evening May 23
through    September 11, 2016 for a Military Appreciation Event – approved
Request to Permit Hanging a Banner on the Water Tower Fence for promotion of
the September     Military Appreciation Event – approved
Resolution Recognizing the National Day of Prayer – approved
2016 Earth Day Proclamation – approved
Designation of two (2) parking spaces in front of the Police Department as
reserved for    Emergency Vehicles Only. - approved
Adoption of Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan – approved (Plan on file in the
Clerk’s office)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1713.gif]
Budget Amendment
Fiscal Year 2015-2016
Budget Amendment #19
WHEREAS the City of Southport voted to move the Police Department and $11,500
is needed to carry this out,
And;
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2015-2016 needs to be amended to
reflect the increase in fund balance appropriations and increase in the
expenditures for the Police Department;
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2015-2016 shall be
amended as follows:
Police Department
Fund Balance Appropriations          Increase
10-00-3991-0000               $ 11,500
Expenditures Moving                Increase
10-4310-3900                  $ 11,500
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, April 14, 2016.
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
      
/s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1772.gif]
Budget Amendment
Fiscal Year 2015-2016
Budget Amendment #20
WHEREAS the City of Southport agreed to seek an assessment for the structural
integrity of the trusses of the Lord Street Gym,
And;
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2015-2016 needs to be amended to
reflect the increase in fund balance appropriations and increase in the
expenditures for the Parks & Recreation Department;
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2015-2016 shall be
amended as follows:
Parks & Recreation
Fund Balance Appropriations          Increase
10-00-3991-0000               $ 48,000
Professional Fees                Increase
10-80-6120-1800               $ 48,000
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, April 14, 2016.
                     /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
/s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
A RESOLUTION RECOGNIZING THE NATIONAL DAY OF PRAYER
WHEREAS, civic prayers and national days of prayer have a long and venerable
history in our constitutional republic, dating back to the First Continental
Congress in 1775; and
WHEREAS, the Declaration of Independence, our first statement as Americans of
national purpose and identity, made “the Laws of Nature and Nature’s God” the
foundation of our United States of America and asserted that people have
inalienable rights that are God-given; and
WHEREAS, the Supreme Court has affirmed the right of state legislatures to open
their sessions with prayer and the Supreme Court and the U.S. Congress
themselves begin each day with prayer; and
WHEREAS, in 1988 legislation setting aside the first Thursday of May in each
year as a National Day of Prayer was passed unanimously by both Houses of
Congress and signed by President Ronald Reagan; and
WHEREAS, the National Day of Prayer is an opportunity for Americans of all
faiths to join in united prayer to acknowledge our dependence on God, to give
thanks for blessings received, to request healing for wounds endured, and to
ask God to guide our leaders and bring wholeness to the United States and her
citizens; and
WHEREAS, it is fitting and proper to give thanks to God by observing a day of
prayer in the City of Southport when all may acknowledge our blessings and
express gratitude for them, while recognizing the needs for strengthening
religious and moral values in our State and Nation; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that I, J.V. Dove, Mayor of the City of
Southport, and Board of Aldermen do hereby proclaim May 5, 2016 as “A DAY OF
PRAYER IN SOUTHPORT” and urge all citizens of Southport to observe the day in
ways appropriate to its importance and significance.
This 14th day of April 2016.
                     /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
City of Southport
2016 Earth Day Proclamation
WHEREAS, our home, this planet Earth, is adversely affected by population
growth and rapid depletion of resources; and
WHEREAS, since the first Earth Day in 1970, the Clean Air Act has made the
nation’s air cleaner, the Clean Water Act has improved water quality, and the
Endangered Species Act has attempted to preserve ecosystems to maintain the
variety of species; and
WHEREAS, following the principles of reduce, repair, reuse and recycle,
residents can improve their environment; and
WHEREAS, preservation is easier and less expensive than restoration; and
WHEREAS, Earth Day provides an opportunity for members of the community to
study, learn and teach local activities which will contribute to protecting our
planet’s ecosystem; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that I, J. V. Dove, Mayor of the City of
Southport, do hereby proclaim Friday, April 22, 2016, as
EARTH DAY
to be observed by all citizens in ways to better understand, appreciate, and
preserve the resources of our earth, and especially the resources of this area.
This 14th day of April 2016.
                                               /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
/s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
AGENDA
10.   Public Hearing: Unified Development Ordinance (UDO) Text Amendment,    
Article 11, Section 11-1 (I) Rear Yard Abutting Side Yard
Mr. Allen pointed out that the Board had asked the Planning Board to review
setback requirements for accessory structures. He stated that the proposed
amendment would require a 20 foot setback for an accessory structure that is
over 15 foot tall, when the back yard of the lot containing the accessory
structure is adjacent to the side yard of a neighboring lot.
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to go into Public
Hearing. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Mr. Richard Bandera, 309 Clarendon Avenue, stated his concerns that the
proposed amendment would hinder the building of an accessory structure within
the historic district. He cited several properties in the city that would be
impacted, including one owned by him and his wife.
Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Powell to close Public Hearing.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
11.   Consideration of Text Amendment
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Coring to send the
recommendation back to the Planning Board for further review.
Discussion
   Alderman Adams backed Alderman Poole, noting that he had raised the issue.
He supported the reduction in height.
   Alderman Mosteller questioned if a moratorium on accessory structures should
be considered.
   Attorney Isenberg explained the difficulty in adopting a moratorium due to
legislative changes.
   Unanimous vote; motion carried.
12.   Public hearing: UDO Text Amendment, Article 15, Section 15-8: Small Lot
   Cluster Development
   Mr. Allen explained that the proposed amendment would allow a 40 foot right-
of-way with a 10 foot utility easement on each side of the road in a small lot
cluster development. He added that the easement could count as part of the
setback requirements. He said the proposal had been reviewed by the Public
Services Director and Alderman Powell.
   Aldermen Powell stated his support for the proposed amendment.
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Powell to go into Public
Hearing. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Mr. Ron Thompson, 115 Thompson Drive, stated support for the proposed text
amendment, noting that he had been denied in a similar situation years prior.
He said it would be beneficial to the property owner and the city to not take a
hard-nosed approach.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to close Public
Hearing. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
13.   Consideration of Text Amendment
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to adopt An Ordinance
Approving A Text Amendment to the Unified Development Ordinance. Unanimous
vote; motion carried.
AN ORDINANCE APPROVING A TEXT AMENDMENT TO THE
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
   THAT WHEREAS, the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance and other
land use ordinances that control land development within both the City’s
incorporated areas and within its extraterritorial area; and
   WHEREAS, in order to promote the public health, safety and general welfare
and to promote the best interest of the city and community, it is necessary for
the City Board of Aldermen from time to time to consider appropriate revisions,
modifications and additions to the city’s land use ordinances; and
   WHEREAS, City Staff, in conjunction with the Planning Board, has prepared
the proposed amendment to Section 15.8 of the Southport Unified Development
Ordinance; and
   WHEREAS, the Planning Board has thoroughly considered this matter and finds
the proposed amendment to the Unified Development Ordinance to be consistent
with the City of Southport CAMA Core Land Use Plan and recommend its approval;
and
   WHEREAS, pursuant to N. C. General Statutes and city ordinances, a public
hearing, properly noticed, was held on April 14, 2016, before the Board of
Aldermen regarding this issue; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen, after considering the public hearing
response and the recommendation of the Planning Board, hereby find that this
proposed amendment to the Unified Development Ordinance is consistent with the
Southport CAMA Core Land Use Plan; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that this amendment is reasonable
and in the public interest in that narrower street rights of way are
appropriate for Small Lot Cluster Developments.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that the
attached amendment to Section 15.8 of the Southport Unified Development
Ordinance is hereby approved and adopted.
This, the 14th day of April, 2016                  City of Southport
                     BY: /s/ J.V. Dove, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
                     
Article 15: Residential Cluster Development
Section 15-8: Small Lot Cluster Development
(D)   Street right of ways shall be a minimum of 40 feet, with a 10 foot
utility easement adjacent to both sides of the right of way.
14.   Public Hearing: UDO Text Amendment, Article 25, Section 25-9: Subdivision
Infrastructure Acceptance and Maintenance Guarantee
   Mr. Allen explained that staff had discovered that the maintenance guarantee
was not transferred from the Code of Ordinances to the UDO.   
   Alderman Powell pointed out that a performance bond is also required for any
subdivision built. He recommended placing the maintenance guarantee at 75% of
the cost of the infrastructure in the right- of-way.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to go into Public
Hearing. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   No one from the public spoke.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to close Public Hearing.
Unanimous vote; motion carried. 
15.   Consideration of Text Amendment
   Attorney Isenberg explained the text revisions as suggested by Alderman
Powell:
4th line, add: located within rights of way
1st paragraph, last sentence, add: This security shall be in the amount of 75%
of the total construction cost of the infrastructure.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Poole to adopt the text
amendment as amended. Unanimous vote; motion carried.   
AN ORDINANCE APPROVING A TEXT AMENDMENT TO THE
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
   THAT WHEREAS, the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance and other
land use ordinances that control land development within both the City’s
incorporated areas and within its extraterritorial area; and
   WHEREAS, in order to promote the public health, safety and general welfare
and to promote the best interest of the city and community, it is necessary for
the City Board of Aldermen from time to time to consider appropriate revisions,
modifications and additions to the city’s land use ordinances; and
   WHEREAS, City Staff, in conjunction with the Planning Board, has prepared
the proposed amendment to Section 25 of the Southport Unified Development
Ordinance; and
   WHEREAS, the Planning Board has thoroughly considered this matter and finds
the proposed amendment to the Unified Development Ordinance to be consistent
with the City of Southport CAMA Core Land Use Plan and recommend its approval;
and
   WHEREAS, pursuant to N. C. General Statutes and city ordinances, a public
hearing, properly noticed, was held on April 14, 2016, before the Board of
Aldermen regarding this issue; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen, after considering the public hearing
response and the recommendation of the Planning Board, hereby find that this
proposed amendment to the Unified Development Ordinance is consistent with the
Southport CAMA Core Land Use Plan; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that this amendment is
reasonable and in the public interest in that (i) this amendment is currently
located in the City of Southport’s Code of Ordinances, (ii) this amendment
should more properly be located in the Unified Development Ordinance, (iii)
this amendment is necessary to protect the interests of the City of Southport.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that the
attached amendment to Section 25 of the Southport Unified Development Ordinance
is hereby approved and adopted.
This, the 14th day of April, 2016                  City of Southport
                     BY: /s/ J.V. Dove, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
Section 25-9: Subdivision Infrastructure Acceptance and Maintenance Guarantee
After construction of streets, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, drainage facilities,
and water and sewer lines is complete, the developer or owner of a subdivision
approved under the process set forth in this Article may request that the City
take over ownership of said streets, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, drainage
facilities located within rights of way, and water and sewer lines. Prior to
such acceptance by the Board of Aldermen, the developer or owner shall provide
a security guaranteeing streets, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, drainage
facilities, and water and sewer lines against defects for one year. This
security shall be in the amount of 75% of the costs of the infrastructure
accepted by the City and shall be in cash, letter of credit, or bond made by a
surety company authorized to do business in North Carolina.
The developer or owner shall also provide a letter or statement in which said
developer or owner shall agree to maintain the backfill and any improvements
located thereon and therein and any ditch which has been dug in connection with
the installation of such improvements. Such letter or statement shall be
binding on the developer or owner for a period of one year after the acceptance
of such improvements by the City of Southport.
This section shall be effective April 14, 2016, except that the 75% maintenance
guarantee shall not apply to any subdivision for which the preliminary plat has
been approved prior to said date.
16.   Consideration of an Ordinance Amending Chapter 17 of the Code of
Ordinances
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Powell to amend Chapter 17 of
the Code of Ordinances as presented. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 17 OF THE CODE OF ORDINANCES
   BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport that
Section 17-125 of the Code of Ordinances is hereby amended to read as follows:
Section 17-125. Parking time limited on certain streets or in certain spaces.
   When signs are placed, erected or installed giving notice thereof, no person
shall park a vehicle for longer than the times specified by the sign. Signs may
limit parking by block, street or by individual parking spaces, provided that
the signs give adequate notice of the limitation. Such limited time parking
areas shall be approved by the Board of Aldermen upon recommendation of the
Police Chief and a schedule of said limited time parking areas shall be on file
with the Police Department.
   This the 14th day of April, 2016.            City of Southport
                        By: /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
17.   Consideration of Whittlers Bench Parking Lot Resurfacing
   Mr. David Fox presented two (2) options for repair of the Whittlers Bench
parking lot: Option 1 would remove the existing asphalt, Option 2 would do a
crack fill.
   Alderman Powell pointed out that the pavement area could be ripped out in
approximately five (5) years with implementation of the Waterfront Project.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to accept Option 2.
   Discussion
   Alderman Poole expressed concerns about the current parking lines bleeding
through as had happened in the past causing confusion and the inability to
drive around the Whittlers Bench.
   Alderman Adams acknowledged Alderman Poole’s concerns. He supported Alderman
Powell with an added mandate to beginning the Waterfront Project within two
years.
   Mr. Fox noted that with the crack fill and overlay, a better product should
be realized and bleed through would be minimal.
   City Manager McDuffie recommended using thermal line marking.
   Alderman Pukenas emphasized that the fix is temporary and not a long term
solution.
   Alderman Coring pointed out that the Board had committed to doing the
Waterfront Project and the area needs to be something everyone can be proud of.
He stated his opinion that resurfacing would make a big difference.
   City Manager McDuffie explained that with a 1-1/2” asphalt layer, there
should be no bleed through. He stated that two contractors had highly
recommended removing all asphalt and installing a stone base. He said that
without a base, within three to four years, the asphalt would crack as is now
seen on West Moore Street.
   Mayor Dove asked about the longevity of Option 2. Mr. Fox responded that the
asphalt would last for an indefinite period but would crack. He added that he
would provide a sketch of the project before proceeding.
   Unanimous vote; motion carried.
18.   Appointments to Forestry Committee
   Alderman Mosteller motioned, second by Alderman Coring to reappoint four (4)
members and appoint three (3) new members to the Forestry Committee: Unanimous
vote; motion carried.
   Reappoint:   Clay Fairley         New Appointment:      Matt Green
         Bryan Whitworth                  Scott Len
         Michael Fuller                     Fred Fiss
         Betty Timberlake, Member Emeritus/Media
19.   Appointment to the Parks and Recreation Advisory Board
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to appoint Warren
Whitley, 432 Cades Trail, to the Parks and Recreation Advisory Board as a
representative for Ward 2.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
20.   Set Date for Budget Workshop
   Board consensus to hold a Budget Workshop on Saturday, May 14, 9:00 a.m. at
the Fire Department Emergency Operations Center.
Board Comments
   Alderman Coring thanked the Beautification Committee for painting the fence
around the water tower. He stated appreciation for all city volunteers.
   Alderman Poole stated her gratefulness to be a member of the Board and the
forward movement the Board is taking. She thanked the city employees for all
they do.
   Mayor Dove stated appreciation for the projects the Board is undertaking and
Aldermen Powell and Poole’s assistance with the sewer issues.
   Speaking for the Board, Alderman Poole extended best wishes to City Manager
McDuffie on his upcoming nuptials.
   City Manager McDuffie introduced his fiancé, Faith Carter.
Adjourn – 8:38 p.m.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to adjourn the meeting.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.  
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk 
MAY 12, 2016
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING MAY 12, 2016
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Karen Mosteller, Jim Powell,
            Todd Coring, Rick Pukenas, Nelson Adams
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney   
   Gary Smith, Public Safety Director/Police Chief
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
   Randy Jones, Tourism Director
   John Allen, Community Development Specialist
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Dove called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Coring welcomed everyone and gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Coring led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Public Comment
   Ms. Jan Francois, 608 Turtlewood Drive, spoke on behalf of residents of the
Turtlewood subdivision about traffic concerns within the neighborhood, i.e.
speeding, tractor trailers and that the subdivision has become a thoroughfare
to and from the ferries. Ms. Francois thanked the Southport Police Department
for stepped up efforts to monitor the traffic issues. Ms. Francois provided a
letter of concerns and a request to close one of the entrances to the
subdivision signed by residents.
   Ms. Lora Sharkey, 432 Cades Trail, thanked all those who provided support
for NatureFest. She specifically thanked Mayor Dove for attending, Tourism
Director, Randy Jones for getting the word out and Cookie Moore for driving the
bus to the Green Swamp.
E)   Approval of Agenda
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Powell to approve the agenda.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Dove stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
F)   Announcements
   Mayor Dove announced that he would hold Mayor’s Day on the 19th of May, 4:00
– 5:30 p.m. at the Fire Headquarters Training Room.
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Powell to approve the consent
agenda. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
1.   Minutes for April 14, 2016 Regular Meeting– approved
2.   Budget Amendment #21; Yacht Basin Paving Change Orders – approved
3.   Acceptance of Property from Mr. Roy Daniels – approved (deed on file in
the Clerk’s office)
4.   Approval of 3-way stops in Turtlewood Subdivision – approved
5.   Approval of Jonas Creek, Phase 2A, Lots 1, 2, & 3 Final Plat – approved
6.   Employee Health Insurance – approved (Plan on file in the Human Resources
office)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1660.gif]
Budget Amendment
Fiscal Year 2015-2016
Budget Amendment #21
WHEREAS the City of Southport agreed to additional work to the Yacht Basin
Drainage Project which involved additional stone and paving,
And;
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2015-2016 needs to be amended to
reflect the increase in fund balance appropriations and increase in the
expenditures for the Street Department;
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2015-2016 shall be
amended as follows:
Street Department
Fund Balance Appropriations          Increase
10-00-3991-0000               $ 5,817
Professional Fees                Increase
10-05-4511-1800               $ 5,817   
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, May 12, 2016.
                  /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
/s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
AGENDA
7.   Proclamation Recognizing May 21-27, 2016 as National Safe Boating Week
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to adopt the
Proclamation Recognizing May 21-27, 2016 as National Safe Boating Week.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Alderman Poole read the Proclamation into the record and the Board joined
her in presenting it to members of the USCG Station Oak Island and USCG
Auxiliary Flotilla 10-05 in attendance.
ProclamationA Sample Proclamation
Recreational boating is fun and enjoyable, and we are fortunate that we have
sufficient resources to accommodate the wide variety of pleasure boating
demands. However, our waterways can become crowded at times and be a place of
chaos and confusion. While being a marvelous source of recreation, boating, to
the unprepared, can be a risky sport. Not knowing or obeying the Navigation
Rules or the nautical “Rules of the Road,” drinking alcohol or taking drugs
while operating a boat, or choosing not to wear your life jacket when doing so
is clearly NOT the smart thing to do, are all examples of human error or a lack
of proper judgment. One particular behavior that can reduce the number of
boaters who lose their lives by drowning each year by is the wearing of a life
jacket. It is a simple task that has the potential to reduce terrible loss in
lives.
Knowledge and skills are important in reducing human error and improving
judgment. If people are aware of the risk, they are likely to take the
precautionary measures to protect themselves and their friends and family. That
is why we must continue to spread the messages of boating safety not only
during National Safe Boating Week but also throughout the entire year.
Whereas, on average, 700 people die each year in boating-related accidents in
the U.S.; approximately 71% of these are fatalities caused by drowning; and
Whereas, the vast majority of these accidents are caused by human error or poor
judgment and not by the boat, equipment, or environmental factors; and
Whereas, a significant number of boaters who lose their lives by drowning each
year would be alive today had they worn their life jackets; and
Whereas, today’s life jackets are more comfortable, more attractive, and more
wearable than styles of years past and deserve a fresh look by today’s boating
public.
Therefore, I, JV Dove, do hereby support the goals of the North American Safe
Boating Campaign, the United States Coast Guard and the Coast Guard Auxiliary
and proclaim May 21 – 27, 2016, as National Safe Boating Week and the start of
the year-round effort to promote safe boating.
In Witness Thereof, I urge all those who boat to Wear It! and practice safe
boating habits.
Given under my signature and the seal of
/s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor, Southport, North Carolina
/s/ Todd Murray “as directed”, Officer-in-Charge USCG Station Oak Island
/s/ Jack Gordon, Flotilla Commander, USCG Auxiliary Flotilla 10-05
at the city of Southport, North Carolina
this 12th day of May, 2016.
8.   Resolution Recognizing Jason Tyson
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to adopt the
Resolution Recognizing Jason Tyson. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
City of Southport
Resolution of Appreciation
WHEREAS, Jason Tyson has worked as a reporter for the State Port Pilot for
almost 4 years; and
WHEREAS, his primary responsibility was covering the City of Southport; and
WHEREAS, Jason has spent countless hours attending meetings of the Board of
Aldermen and many other City Boards and Committees; and
WHEREAS, his coverage of City affairs has always been marked by true
professionalism and integrity; and
WHEREAS, Jason’s reporting has served as an informational conduit between the
City and its citizens, keeping them informed while upholding the highest level
of journalistic principles; and
WHEREAS, presentation of this resolution represents an opportunity for the
Mayor and Board of Aldermen to thank Jason and offer him their best wishes in
his future endeavors.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that Mayor J. V. Dove and the Board of Aldermen
for the City of Southport recognize Jason Tyson for his dedicated and
distinguished service to the City.
Presented this 12th day of May, 2016.
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
9.   Consideration of Unified Development Ordinance (UDO) Text Amendment,
Article 11, Section 11-1 (I) Rear Yard Abutting Side Yard
Mr. Allen gave the following report. (April 29, 2016 memo presented in its
entirety)
   In February, the Board of Aldermen requested that the Planning Board review
the setback requirements for accessory structures. A Planning Board review
committee met with staff to review the existing setback requirements and
discuss potential changes. At its March meeting the Planning Board approved a
recommendation to amend Section 11-1 of the UDO and require a 20 foot setback
for an accessory structure that is over 15 feet tall, when the back yard of the
lot containing the accessory structure is adjacent to the side yard of a
neighboring lot.
   After hearing public comment at its April meeting, the Board of Aldermen
sent the item back to the Planning Board for further study. The original review
committee met with Richard Bandera, a local architect, on April 20 and after
discussing the issue extensively, came to the conclusion that the previous
recommendation was not viable; nor could the committee determine a way to
modify the recommendation in such a way as to make it viable. The committee
voted to recommend to the Planning Board that the original recommendation be
withdrawn.
   At its meeting on April 21, after a presentation by the committee and much
discussion, the Planning Board voted to withdraw its previous recommendation
and leave Section 11-1 of the UDO unchanged.
   While stating her appreciation for the committee’s recommendation to not go
forward with a revision, Alderman Mosteller shared her opinion that the entire
accessory building regulations throughout the UDO should be reviewed.
   Alderman Mosteller motioned, second by Alderman Poole to ask the Planning
Board to revisit all of the accessory building regulations throughout the UDO.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
10.   Price Quote for Audit Contract
   City Manager McDuffie provided a quotation from Berry, Padgett & Chandler,
PLLC for the annual audit contract in the amount of $ 39,600. He indicated the
quotation provided an increase of 10% over the previous contract. He asked if
the Board would like to consider adding a liquidated damages clause to the
contract in the amount of $50 per day if the audit is not completed by October
30.
Alderman Powell motioned second by Alderman Coring to accept the audit
contract.
Discussion
Alderman Powell stated he would not support liquidated damages.
   Alderman Adams stated his confidence in staff to provide needed information
in a timely manner to the auditors.
   City Manager McDuffie pointed out that staff had submitted all information
needed for the past audit to the auditors in September 2015 but the audit was
not turned in until mid-February 2016.
   Alderman Powell clarified that his motion was to accept the contract as
presented without liquidated damages. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
11.   Presentation of FY 2016-2017 Budget
   Ms. Trexler provided the Board with a draft FY 2016-2017 Budget.
   City Manager McDuffie stated that the budget is balanced and does not change
the tax rate or the cost of utilities for the citizens of Southport. He added
that departmental requests were cut, details of such to be discussed during the
upcoming budget workshop.
Board Comments
   Alderman Pukenas congratulated the Fire Department for making an ISO 3
rating. All members echoed the praise.
   Alderman Poole thanked staff for the clear and concise staff reports.
   Alderman Poole acknowledged all those who are members of, and involved with,
the 4th of July Committee.
   Alderman Coring praised the Public Services Department staff for the quality
of work and the extended hours worked while replacing fire hydrants. He thanked
the Beautification Committee for an excellent job accomplished during their
monthly clean up. He commended Police and Fire personnel for life saving
actions performed April 30th on a man found unresponsive at the Southport
Marina.
   Alderman Mosteller echoed appreciation to the Beautification Committee. She
thanked Tourism Director, Randy Jones, staff liaison to the Beautification
Committee, for streamlining the project review process and getting back to the
original by-laws of the committee by having the Board of Aldermen committee
liaison present proposed projects to the Board.
Recess – 6:41 p.m.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to recess the meeting
to Saturday, May 14, 9:00 a.m. in the Fire Department Emergency Operations
Center (EOC).
Unanimous vote; motion carried.  
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
MAY 14, 2016
RECESSED SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN            RECESSED SESSION MINUTES
FIRE DEPARTMENT HEADQUARTERS MAY 14, 2016
1011 N. HOWE STREET          SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Karen Mosteller, Jim Powell,
            Todd Coring, Rick Pukenas, Nelson Adams
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
   Gary Smith, Public Safety Director/Police Chief
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
   Randy Jones, Tourism Director
   Vickie Potter, Community Building Coordinator
A)   Call to Order – 9:00 a.m.
Mayor Dove called the meeting back to order at 9:00 a.m.
BUDGET WORKSHOP
1.   General Overview
   City Manager McDuffie presented a general overview of the proposed FY 2016-
2017 budget as presented to the Board at the May 12 regular meeting.
Budget numbers are balanced
Water, Sewer and Electric funds on solid footing
General Fund is the tightest
$500,000 was cut from departmental requests
1.9% COLA included for employees
$96,000 saved with change of insurance proposed to fund a salary study
Employees who chose a Health Savings Account (HSA) medical coverage will have
accounts front loaded with $1,500 and $57/month for eleven months to ease the
transition from a PPO.
Standard health plan for new hires will be an HSA
2.   Revenue
   City Manager McDuffie reported that the proposed budget keeps the tax rate
the same as FY 2015/2016. He noted there was a slight increase to the tax base,
the Division of Motor Vehicles (DMV) tax was an estimated, the ABC Store
revenues are expected to be lower due to the recent remodel, and the Southport
Marina property taxes first collection will be realized during the FY 2017/2018
budget year.
   Alderman Powell questioned if the City was taxing the boats at Bald Head
Marina. City Manager McDuffie stated he would have the Tax Collector look into
it.
   Mayor Dove noted that a 1.9% COLA was proposed for all city employees. He
stated his opinion that many employees have dedicated many years to the city
and he suggested additional salary increases be considered. City Manager
McDuffie indicated that he is doing a salary study for all city positions as
previously requested by the Board and he anticipates having it completed by the
end of June. Mayor Dove asked if the Cape Fear Council of Government (COG)
could do a study free of charge. City Manager McDuffie stated he would contact
Chris May. Alderman Coring asked for a listing of pay increases made within the
last year.
   Mayor Dove thanked the City Manager for a wonderful job on health insurance
costs and communicating the options to the employees.
3.   Projects
   City Manager McDuffie explained the provided worksheet on Projects: the
total cost, possible grants, 20 year financing projections and potential
increase on the tax rate. He emphasized the need for a blunt discussion on
funding the proposed projects.
   Waterfront      $4,300,000
   Lord Street Gym   $2,900,000
   201 E. Moore Street   $1,650,000
   Boat Dock      $ 313,000
   Garrison      $ 388,000
         Total   $9,551,000
   Alderman Powell stated his opinion that the Waterfront Project needs to be
the top priority.
He emphasized getting grants and contributions.
   201 E. Moore Street
   Alderman Mosteller asked about the roof replacement for the former City
Hall, 201 E. Moore Street. City Manager McDuffie updated the Board on the
status of the project indicating that the architect overseeing the project had
taken a full-time job and the bid has expired from the builder who gave the low
bid last June, the bid has expired, The contractor is not obligated to honor
the bid, if the contractor did agree to do the work, and the earliest date
would be early 2017. Alderman Powell recommended contacting Baker Roofing in
Raleigh. He agreed with Alderman Mosteller that putting a roof on the building
is urgent.
   City Manager McDuffie pointed out that the last bid received for the project
was for $250,000. He asked if funding should be through a loan, budget, fund
balance or an increase to the tax rate.
   The Board discussed asking Mr. Bob Grant to prepare a grant for the
Waterfront Project. Additionally, Alderman Powell offered to contact Bald Head
Island, Inc. and their consultant to determine interest in the project.
   City Manager McDuffie noted that Mr. Mike McIntyre had been hired to assist
the city with the project by spearheading contact with state and federal
agencies towards grants acquisition.
   Boat Docks
   City Manager McDuffie discussed with the Board options for the City Boat
Docks. He pointed out the deteriorating condition, potential liabilities
because of the condition, upwards to $1.2M to bring them up to shape, current
rental rates for 22 slips useable, consideration of selling, leasing, or re-
applying for a grant with emphasis on transient boaters. Alderman Adams noted
that the boat docks are a sensitive, controversial and political issue to the
community. Board consensus to direct the city manager to ascertain the value of
the boat dock and lease opportunities.
   Garrison
   Tourism Director Jones advised the Board of the first assessment received on
the Garrison structure and mortar. He stated a 4-year project is planned to
perform the necessary point work at an estimated total cost of $388,000. He
indicated he would pursue grants and have a “Save A Brick” campaign. He pointed
out that the last pointing done on the building was in the late 1970’s.
Alderman Poole concurred that when the property was given to the City, the
needed pointing was identified at that time.
   Lord Street Gym
   Parks & Recreation Director Hemphill reported that the gymnasium roof
trusses could be repaired and used. Responding to a question by Alderman Poole,
Director Hemphill stated it would cost $321,000 to put a roof on the structure
and paint the exterior.
   Alderman Mosteller cited past Board minutes relating to a public/private
partnership to restore the building.
   Alderman Adams emphasized that the City had negotiated with Brunswick
Community College (BCC) to obtain ownership of the gym. He stressed doing the
roof and pursuing outside interests, i.e. Duke and ADM to assist with the 5-
year mandate for having the building back in use.
   City Manager McDuffie recommended the city set aside a portion of the
$321,000, with the other portion to be raised via donations.
   Alderman Adams motioned, second by Alderman Poole that the city will budget
$160,000, fundraising will have until December 31, 2016 to get pledges for the
remaining $160,000, the pledges must to be collected by January 31, 2017 and if
the money is not raised, the project will not move forward.
   Alderman Powell stated his concerns about spending the estimated $2.9M on
renovation of the structure when a new building could be built for much less.
   Unanimous vote; motion carried.
4.   Surplus Property
   City Manager McDuffie talked about five (5) city owned properties that could
be surplused and sold:
Residential Building Lot in Boiling Spring Lakes (BSL)
Former Wastewater Treatment Plant Site
Rhett Street 1971 Jail
9th Street Well Site
City Boat Dock
   Noting the former WWTP side is a valuable asset, Alderman Mosteller shared
her hope that the property could be retained as green space.
   Aldermen Powell and Adams suggested testing the market to determine if the
property could bring $2M.
   City Manager McDuffie stated that Preston Development (Southport Marina) may
be approaching the city about the property after they complete a Water
Delineation Study. He suggested not advertising the property for sale.
   1971 Jail
   City Manager McDuffie reported that the 1971 jail is currently being used as
a storage building which is not the best use for the property. He stated the ¼
acre property is a buildable residential parcel in a desirable location.
   Alderman Mosteller favored selling the property as it appeared there was no
apparent municipal use for it.
   Alderman Adams suggested putting it out for lease.
   All Board members thanked the City Manager and Police Chief Smith for moving
the Police Department to the former visitor center at 113 W. Moore Street. It
was pointed out that the general public likes the downtown location and there
is room for expansion.
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to list the Boiling
Spring Lakes property and 9th Street well site, with a real estate agent at the
discretion of the City Manager. Unanimous vote, motion carried.
5.   Tourism
   Tourism Director Jones reported that as of July 1, the Historical Society
would be taking over the operation of the Ft. Johnston retail store with all
proceeds going into the maintenance of the building. Mr. Jones noted that the
Tourism budget reflects revenue from a donation box which during the tourist
season averages $700/week, money of which goes into the Ft. Johnston
maintenance fund. Mr. Jones pointed out that the departmental budget went down
over the previous years.
   Responding to a query by Alderman Coring, Mr. Jones stated the Community
Events line item is for ticket sales for the annual Tour of Homes and the
Marketing line item is for printing brochures and maps.
   Mayor Dove asked about potential filming coming to the area. Mr. Jones
reported that he is in contact with location managers from “Six” and “Good
Behavior.”
   Mr. Jones stated that Mr. Strickland and the Building Superintendent are in
the process of installing new security cameras at the entry to Ft. Johnston and
at the restrooms.
6.   Parks & Recreation
   Parks & Recreation Director Hemphill explained her request for a 12
passenger van to be used for smaller group trips and for hauling equipment to
events. She stated that most of the Parks & Recreation budget was contingent on
capital projects, i.e. Lord Street Gym and Boat Dock.
      Community Building
   City Manager McDuffie pointed out that a private contractor had been hired
to do 33 cleanings a year at $300/week. He noted that the building looked much
better during the last Board meeting.
   Community Building Coordinator Potter talked about the needed repairs and
maintenance:
Paint and repair interior
Power wash exterior
Sand and apply polyurethane to hard wood floors
Replace warming cabinets
Replace ice machine
Replace deck and deck step LED lights
Replace light fixtures in restrooms
Add electrical outlets in office
Redo walls in storage room with FRP boards
Paint porch ceiling and top of hand rails
   She emphasized the need to power wash and stain the deck and steps to
alleviate wet and slippery conditions from algae build up.
7.   Fire/EMS
   City Manager McDuffie praised Chief Drew for presenting a good solid budget
for the merged Fire and Rescue Department. He noted that the budget was tight
with two (2) full-time employees.
   Chief Drew stated it was a challenge merging the budgets. He stated the
department received nearly $629,000 in fire fees and total revenue of just over
$1M. He indicated that non-emergency transports within the city limits are
being added at $450 a trip. He stated there is one final payment of $84,000 on
the tower truck, and the department is in the process of specing out a tanker/
pumper to replace the 1995 vehicle. Chief Drew pointed out that more Insurance
Services Officer, Inc. (ISO) points can be realized by reclassifying vehicles
as was done with the old ladder truck.
   City Manager McDuffie noted that the shift honorarium line item was
increased in anticipation of increased revenue from transports.\
   Chief Drew stated that $25,000 was budgeted for the substation with $20,000
in reserve. He said it is hoped a substation can be established in the
Rivermist Subdivision area, which could potentially lower the ISO rating to a
2. He added that Pender County had recently put up three (3) substations for
approximately $300,000 and he plans to have a look at them.
   Responding to Alderman Powell, Chief Drew indicated there is $250,000 in the
Fire Department Reserve Fund.
   Mayor Dove thanked the department for lowering the ISO rating.
8.   Police
   City Manager McDuffie stated he is recommending $80,000 for additional
personnel in the Police Department: 1 full-time position July 1 and adding a
12th officer April 1. He stated the hope is to cut overtime to 50 hours per
officer. Also, he stated that Chief Smith wanted to add part-time officers at
$15/hour but that request had been cut from the budget.
   City Manager McDuffie noted that the Police Department has 12 vehicles and
the 2016-2017 budget includes purchase of two (2) vehicles. He stated the Chief
budgeted for an SUV and a car. The City Manager stated his recommendation would
be for either two (2) cars or a car and a truck for animal control.
   Alderman Adams supported purchase of an SUV. He stated his displeasure that
the department closes at 6:00 p.m. He suggested keeping the department open
until 12 midnight.
   City Manager McDuffie discussed the added expense to man the station an
additional 54 hours a week. Chief Smith stated his wish to have the station
open until midnight. He added that the additional hours could be covered by
three (3) new part-time personnel.
   Alderman Poole cautioned that the part-time positions did not evolve into
full-time positions with benefits.
   Closed Session – 12:10 p.m.
Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Powell to go into closed session
pursuant to N.C.G.S. 143-318.11(a) (6) for discussion of personnel issues.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.  
Return to Open Session – 12:33 p.m.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Adams to come out of Closed
Session. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
9.   Public Services
      Electrical
   City Manager McDuffie reported that no electrical rate change is proposed,
additional Load Management switches are included, $800,000 is budgeted for
underground services, and 10% of the Finance Department salaries are being
budgeted in the fund, a reduction from FY 2015/2016.
   Responding to Alderman Powell, Electrical Superintendent Pittenger stated
that there has been increased participation in the Load Management Program. He
added that he approves the proposed electrical budget.
   City Manager McDuffie stated his recommendation to budget $300,000 in the
Water, Sewer and Electric Funds for potential purchase of six to eight acres
for relocation of the Public Services Department. He noted that the
department’s current location has no room for storage or growth.
   Alderman Adams shared his concerns about Brunswick Electric Membership
Corp’s (BEMC) disconnect/reconnect policy and charges. City Manager McDuffie
stated the BEMC is re-evaluating their service charges and anticipate the
charges will be reduced.
Lunch: 1:00 p.m.
Return to Session – 1:45 p.m.
   Water
   City Manager McDuffie reported that replacement of the mechanical water
meters with the Automated Metering Infrastructure (AMI) will increase revenue.
He stated 1,200 of the new meters have been installed to date and he cited an
instance where a leak was quickly detected by the reporting equipment. Public
Services Director Fox stated his satisfaction with the proposed water budget.
   Buildings & Grounds
   City Manager McDuffie pointed out that two new part-time positions were
requested but that only one position had been included in the budget.
Additionally, he stated a walk behind brush cutter and additional parking at
City Hall was removed from the budget request. Included in the budget is
funding for storm drainage work at the Atlantic Avenue gym and Parks &
Recreation offices, tree maintenance in Northwood Cemetery and a carport at
Public Services to store equipment under.
   Alderman Mosteller emphasized setting aside funding for city wide tree
maintenance and arborist evaluations. She volunteered to make contact with the
NC Cooperative Extension Office at Brunswick County to determine what
assistance they could provide.
   Garage
   City Manager McDuffie stated a request for a new tire mounting machine had
been cut from the budget. Mr. Fox agreed with the cut and the proposed budget.
   Street   
   City Manager McDuffie reported that line item 5500 was cut $10,000, funding
was included to fix Caswell Avenue/Bay Street drainage problems and
installation of a walkway from N. Caswell Avenue to the Senior Center at
Smithville Crossing. The Board discussed funding and specifics of a connector
to WalMart for wheelchairs and golf carts.
   Solid Waste
   City Manager McDuffie commended the Finance Department for finding an
overbilling discrepancy from Waste Industries. He discussed the current 5-year
contract through June 2018, the problems encountered getting Waste Industries
to replace carts. He suggested future consideration of assuming the service in
house, noting he receives more complaints on this service than any other.
Currently there are 96 carts in use. He suggested purchase of a one-man grapple
truck which would be efficient and citizens would not have to bundle. Alderman
Mosteller recommended a cost analysis.
   Powell Bill
   City Manager McDuffie stated the budget included $12,000 for design work and
North Carolina Department of Transportation (NCDOT) approvals of Howe Street
sidewalks/crosswalks from 9th Street to 11th Street.
   Alderman Adams asked about the status of an additional traffic light on N.
Howe Street. City Manager McDuffie stated he was waiting a response from
Senator Rabon.
   The Board discussed the NCDOT Route 211 widening project and what, if any,
impact it would have on the commercial development planned at the recently
annexed 88 acres.
10.   Community Building Rates
   At the request of Alderman Mosteller, the Board discussed a proposed rental
rate change for the Community Building.
   Alderman Poole stated her opinion that the Tourism Department budget had for
many years subsidized the building through taxpayers. She pointed out that the
building used to be rented multiple times a day and not in 12 hour intervals.
   Mayor Dove noted that the building operated in the past without a full-time
employee and was not rented as often which resulted in less utility usage.
   Alderman Mosteller explained that she had put the information provided by
the Community Building Coordinator into a format for clear rate comparison. She
stated her opinion that the proposed rental rates would provide better savings
for citizens and employees than the current rates. She viewed the proposal as
an opportunity to make the building a self-sustaining community asset.
   Aldermen, Coring, Powell and Pukenas stated their support for the operation
of the facility to be self-sustaining.
   Aldermen Adams and Poole stated their opinions that the current and proposed
rates were unaffordable for many Southport citizens.
   Alderman Mosteller motioned, second by Alderman Powell to adopt the rates
effective July 1, 2016.
   Aye:   Aldermen Mosteller, Powell, Coring, Pukenas
   Nay:   Aldermen Adams & Poole
   Motion passed 4-2
Recess – 3:23 p.m.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to recess the meeting
to Monday, May 16, 6:00 p.m. Unanimous vote; motion carried.  
                        /s/ J.V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
MAY 16, 2016
RECESSED SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN            RECESSED SESSION MINUTES
FIRE DEPARTMENT HEADQUARTERS MAY 16, 2016
1011 N. HOWE STREET          SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Karen Mosteller, Jim Powell,
            Todd Coring, Rick Pukenas, Nelson Adams
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   Tyler Johnson, Deputy Chief/Rescue
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Dove called the meeting back into session at 6:00 p.m.
BUDGET REVIEW
   City Manager McDuffie provided the Board with a copy of the proposed budget
with the revisions as discussed at the May 14 Budget Workshop. He pointed out
the need for a discussion about funding for roof replacements on the Lord
Street Gym and 201 E. Moore Street, estimated amount $410,000. He stated the
funding could be realized via fund balance, a loan, or property taxes. He
indicated that by removing those capital projects, the budget is $8,250 from
being balanced.
   Powell Bill
   City Manager McDuffie reported that the currently approved paving projects
will encumber the entire $108,000 received in Powell Bill funds. He indicated
the projects may not be completed by the end of the fiscal year but will be by
the end of the calendar year.
   Electric Fund
   City Manager McDuffie stated there were no changes made to the Electric
Fund.
   General Fund – Board
   City Manager McDuffie noted that the Board budget will be the same as FY
2015-2016 with the exception that it is anticipated the audit will cost more.
   General Fund - Administration
   City Manager McDuffie discussed the past practice of leasing copiers. He
stated the fee quoted for FY 2016-17 would be $5,000 for leasing six (6)
copiers which would not include maintenance. He stated he had researched State
Contract pricing and he recommended a $20,000 capital equipment purchase of new
copiers.
   Alderman Adams queried if fewer copiers would be adequate.
   Alderman Poole noted that most desk top printers function as copiers.
   Alderman Coring stated his opinion that copiers have frequent problems and
he did not feel comfortable getting away from a lease.
   Mayor Dove asked about a centralized location. City Manager McDuffie stated
that a centralized location would likely increase cost due to employee travel
time.
   Alderman Adams suggested revisiting the issue after determination is made to
the exact number of copiers needed.
   City Manager McDuffie pointed out that the copier expenditure was the only
change in the Administration budget.
   Finance
   City Manager McDuffie discussed a proposed reconfiguration of the City Hall
east lobby for better customer experience and employee safety. He estimated the
redesign of two (2) teller stations would cost approximately $7,000, would
allow for more customer privacy and alleviate the crowding Angie and Rose are
experiencing.
   Alderman Adams stated his opinion he would like to see it remain as it is
and a privacy board installed on the existing counter.
   Finance Director Trexler indicated the current counter is not large enough
for installation of a privacy board.
   Alderman Adams asked for a drawing of what is being proposed.
   Streets
   City Manager McDuffie stated that $20,000 had been added to the Street
budget for installation of a golf cart/bicycle connector between Southport Way
Subdivision and Wal-Mart.
   Police
   City Manager McDuffie indicated money had been added to the budget for part-
time salaries for the additional manning hours of the station and funding for
two (2) vehicles.
   Alderman Adams stated his understanding that a consensus had been made at
the previous budget workshop to purchase an SUV and a car for the Police
Department.
   Board members discussed the pros and cons of a truck vs. an SUV.
   Alderman Adams motioned, second by Alderman Coring to purchase a 2-wheel SUV
and a car for the Police Department.
Ayes: Aldermen Adams, Coring, Poole, Mosteller, Pukenas
Nay:   Alderman Powell
Motion Passed 5-1
   Mayor Dove and Alderman Adams talked about the different functions of the
Police and Fire Departments. They suggested re-examining the role of the Public
Safety Director/Police Chief as the overall department head.
   Planning & Inspections
   City Manager McDuffie reported that Mr. Strickland, the Building Inspector,
would be retiring in March, 2018 with over 20 years with the City. He pointed
out that four (4) months of salary for a full-time building inspector trainee
had been included in the proposed budget to aid in a seamless transition. He
stated that a Level I inspection certification would be required at the time of
hire and acquiring a Level 3 certification in all disciplines within 2 years.
He said the position would be advertised in January or February of 2017.    The
Board discussed the possibility of an employment agreement.
   Responding to a query from Alderman Coring, City Manager McDuffie explained
the $7,500 proposed expenditure for a share of the $21,500 cost for a wide
format printer.
   Street
   City Manager McDuffie explained the proposed 6 foot wide asphalt Maple Leaf
Drive/Wal- Mart connector for wheelchair, bicycle and golf cart access.
   Parks & Recreation
   City Manager McDuffie explained the Parks & Recreation departmental capital
requests:
Van - $31,000
Jaycee Building Roof - $3,000
Lord Street Gym Roof - $320,000
   Community Building
   Aldermen Poole and Adams questioned the $10,000 contract services for
cleaning of the Community Building. The Board emphasized the need for the
bidding process to include local and minority vendors.
   Tourism
   City Manager McDuffie reported that the Tourism Department budget had not
changed from the previous budget workshop. He pointed out the $50,000 entry for
brick pointing and restoration, noting that the funds would be raised through
donations.
   Alderman Poole commented on the improved look of the Garrison with the
recently installed new entry door.
   Electrical
   City Manager McDuffie pointed out that the cost of streets lights had been
under budgeted by $63,000. He stated that Brunswick Electric Membership Corp.
(BEMC) had mapped the 600 lights throughout the city and is billing $93,000. He
recommended performing an audit of all lights and accounts to clean up the
discrepancy. He noted that previously the charge was paid to the city.
   Discussion
   City Manager McDuffie pointed out that State statutes require a certain
amount of money must be kept in fund balance; the equivalent of one (1) month
operating capital, 8% for the City of Southport. He noted that any money over
that amount is available for emergencies. While he stated the funding of
capital projects proposed in the budget could be realized with fund balance he
instead recommended securing a loan for the 201 E. Moore Street and Lord Street
Gym roof replacements or a tax increase.
   Board consensus to not raise taxes or use fund balance for capital projects.
They discussed the potential sale of various city properties; 9th street
abandoned well site, residential lot in Boiling Spring Lakes, Rhett Street
storage building, former site of the Wastewater Treatment Plant.
   Alderman Adams recommended selling property and securing a loan to fund the
capital projects. City Manager McDuffie reviewed the loan process through a bid
for work in hand, receipt of a bank proposal and approval by the Local
Government Commission (LGC) which takes up to 60 days, delays commencement of
the work and potentially increases the cost.
   Board consensus for departments to further review their budgets and make
additional cuts.
Recess – 8:30 p.m.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to recess the meeting
to Tuesday, May 31, 6:00 p.m. Unanimous vote; motion carried.  
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
MAY 31, 2016
RECESSED SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN            RECESSED SESSION MINUTES
FIRE DEPARTMENT HEADQUARTERS MAY 31, 2016
1011 N. HOWE STREET          SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Karen Mosteller, Jim Powell,
            Todd Coring, Rick Pukenas, Nelson Adams
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Gary Smith, Public Safety Director/Police Chief
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Dove called the meeting back to order at 6:00 p.m.
   City Manager McDuffie provided the Board with a report of the current
salaries of all employees and stated he would be meeting with Chris May of the
Cape Fear Council of Government (COG) to begin a salary study.
   City Manager McDuffie provided the Board with the balanced budget, pointing
out that in order to extend the hours of the Police Department to midnight,
additional funds would need to be found in the budget.
   Alderman Adams stated his opinion that keeping the police department open
was a directive and department heads were tasked with making budget cuts in
order to fund it. Mayor Dove concurred with Alderman Adams. City Manager
McDuffie stated that a truck, wheel balancer and AC recovery unit had been cut
from the Public Services garage division budget and one police vehicle was cut.
Mayor Dove and Alderman Adams thanked Police Chief Smith for forfeiting a
vehicle.
   Alderman Adams asked about money budgeted for donations. City Manager
McDuffie responded that no money had been budgeted in the FY 2016-2017 budget
for donations.
   Alderman Adams expressed his thoughts that the Beautification Committee
should not have a line item in the budget. He praised their work throughout the
city but he said he felt each request by the committee should be addressed as
the need arises.
   Alderman Mosteller supported appropriating $3,000 annually to the
Beautification Committee, noting that the Tourism Director is the committee
liaison with oversight for spending. She also supported funding the Forestry
Committee $1,000 whose mandate is education and building public awareness about
trees.
   Board members discussed past practices of funding committees and making
donations. Board consensus to retain the Beautification Committee line item in
the amount of $3,000 with the understanding that the sum would be the total of
money appropriated to the committee for FY 2016- 2017.
   Mayor Dove stated he had met with Ms. Judy Gordon concerning establishing a
perpetual trust fund for city cemeteries. He referred to past Board minutes and
questioned what had become of the proposed study committee.
   The Board discussed the assistance the City has provided, and will continue
to, at the John Smith Cemetery by cutting grass and locating graves with the
city’s ground penetrating radar. It had been estimated that there may be 200 –
500 unmarked graves in the cemetery.
   The Board discussed the improvements made at the Northwood Cemetery and
budgeting in fiscal year 2017/2018 for a rear fence and possible addition of
urn burial plots in the back section.
   Mayor Dove asked about the policy for employee moving expenses. Board
consensus for staff to determine the amount paid to former police Chief Bob
Gray and place approval of a similar amount on the next regular board meeting
agenda in order to pay Chief Smith for relocation expenses into the city
limits.
   Mayor Dove announced that he had met with Congressman Rouzer and had
reminded him to keep Southport in mind regarding development of city owned
property near Sunny Point and the Waterfront Revitalization Project.
Adjourn – 6:51 p.m.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Poole to adjourn the meeting.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.  
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
JUNE 9, 2016
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING JUNE 9, 2016
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Karen Mosteller, Jim Powell,
            Todd Coring, Rick Pukenas, Nelson Adams
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney   
   Gary Smith, Public Safety Director/Police Chief
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
   David Fox, Public Services Director
   Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
   Randy Jones, Tourism Director
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   John Allen, Community Development Specialist
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Dove called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Powell welcomed everyone and Mayor Dove gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Powell led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Public Comment
   There was no public comment.
E)   Approval of Agenda
   Mayor Dove requested addition to the agenda: Extending the Operation &
Maintenance (O&M) Contract with Brunswick Electric Membership Corporation
(BEMC).
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Coring to approve the agenda as
amended.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Dove stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
F)   Announcements
   Mayor Dove announced the 150th anniversary of the Masonic Lodge.
   Alderman Pukenas announced that the movie, “Something of Value”, written by
Robert Ruark would be shown in Franklin Square Park, Saturday, June 11.
   Alderman Coring announced that the Southport Fire Department would host the
33rd Annual Fire Fighter’s Freedom Competition, Saturday, July 2.
   City Manager McDuffie expressed appreciation to the public for their
patience during the current paving projects. He indicated that the Davis Street
repaving is expected to be completed by June 10th and the Whittler’s Bench
project should be completed by June 17th.
   Noting that Southport is a city of volunteers, Mayor Dove thanked the
Beautification Committee for all they do and for inviting the Board to the
volunteer appreciation picnic.
   Alderman Mosteller announced that the Southport Historical Society and
Beautification Committee would be cleaning up the Old Smithville Burying
Grounds on Saturday, July 25, 9:00 am – noon.
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Poole to approve the consent
agenda. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
1.   Minutes for May 12, 2016 Regular Meeting– approved   
2.   Budget Transfer – FY 2015-2016 Year End – approved (on file in Clerk’s
Office)
3.   Resolution Stating The Intent Of The City of Southport to Annex Property
Owned By the City    Which Is Contiguous To the Existing Municipal Boundaries –
approved
4.   Approval of Relocation Allowance for Police Chief Smith – approved
      RESOLUTION STATING THE INTENT OF THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT TO ANNEX PROPERTY
OWNED BY THE CITY WHICH IS CONTIGUOUS TO THE EXISTING MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES
         BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport that:
         Section 1. It is the intent of the Board of Aldermen, pursuant to G.
S. 160A-31, to annex the property described in Section 2, which is owned by the
City of Southport.
         Section 2. The legal description of the property is shown on Exhibit A
attached hereto.
         Section 3. The property described in Section 2 is contiguous to the
current municipal boundaries.
         Section 4. A public hearing on the question of annexation of this
property will be held at Southport Community Building, 223 E. Bay Street, at 6:
00 pm on July 14, 2016.
         Section 5. Notice of the public hearing shall be published once in the
State Port Pilot, a newspaper having general circulation in the City of
Southport, at least 10 days prior to the date of the public hearing.
         Adopted this 9th day of June, 2016.
                              City of Southport
                              BY: /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
      Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
AGENDA
5.   Presentation by Owen Garner with Brunswick County Airport Commission
   Mr. Owen Gardner, Southport’s representative on the Brunswick County Airport
Commission since 1988, outlined the background of the Cape Fear Regional
Jetport. He noted that it competes with 82 other airports for FAA funding.
   Mr. Howie Franklin, Director of the State chartered airport for the past 22
years, spoke about the economic impact the airport has on the area. He cited
specifics of past and recent NC State studies performed at the request of NCDOT
Aviation Division: 1995 impact $4M; with initial extension of runway, $21M;
runway extension to 5,005 feet resulted in current impact of $215M.
   Mr. Franklin pointed out that the airport is a fueling stop, is operating in
the black, attracts people from all over the country, sits on 197 acres, is
used by the military, Coast Guard, and could accommodate a C17 in the event of
an emergency. He stated the airport has a low environmental impact, its
maintenance shops are successful and various flight schools and flights are
provided. He added that the airport has one of the state’s largest Civil Air
Patrol (CAP) and a chapter of the Experimental Aircraft Association (EAA).
   Mayor Dove asked if an apprentice program is available for young people. Mr.
Franklin responded that an apprentice program is not currently in place but the
airport commissioners and Brunswick Community College would like to develop a
mechanics school and an air traffic control school. He stated that high school
students work at the airport and he mentors them.
6.   Public Hearing: FY 2016-2017 Operating Budget
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to go into Public
Hearing. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   No one from the public spoke.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to close Public
Hearing. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
7.   Adopting of FY 2016-2017 Operating Budget
   City Manager McDuffie indicated that the tax rate for the proposed FY 2016-
2017 Operating Budget would stay the same and there is no increase in electric,
water or sewer rates. He pointed out that purchase of one police vehicle was
removed from the police department budget and $13,000 was put into part-time
salaries to facilitate extended operating hours of the police station to 12
midnight. He stated that $10,000 of the vehicle cost was placed in Board
discretionary funds.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Poole to accept the budget.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1660.gif]  
BUDGET ORDINANCE - FISCAL YEAR 2016-2017
CITY OF SOUTHPORT
BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that, following a duly advertised public hearing, the following
annual budget ordinance is adopted to estimate revenues and make appropriations
for the financial operations of the City of Southport for the fiscal year
beginning July 1, 2016, and ending June 30, 2017.
SECTION I. GENERAL FUND
Anticipated Revenues. The following revenues are estimated to be available in
the General Fund for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2016, and ending June
30, 2017:
Ad Valorem Taxes - PY                $1,866,276
Local Option Sales Tax                802,213
Room Occupancy Tax                       93,432
Solid Waste Disposal Tax                306,899
Permit and Inspection Fees                 204,700
Fire inspections & permit fees               774,751
Rescue - Transport Fees                     261,000
Police - Misc Grants                           15,000
Refuse Collection Fees                    220,000
Parks & Recreation .Grants                       25,552
Tourism - Special Event Sales                     50,000
Interest Earnings                           3,720
Cam Revenues                        105,679
Donations for Lord St Gym                     160,000
Community Building Rentals                             162,440
Sale of Fixed Assets                         131,300
ABC Revenue - Law Enforcement                  288,000
      Powell Bill Distribution                      108,313
Proceeds from Financing                         410,000 
Total Revenues               $5,989,275
B. Expenditures. The following amounts are hereby appropriated in the General
Fund for the expenses of the city government and its activities for the fiscal
year beginning July 1, 2016, and ending June 30, 2017:
Governing Body                     $    423,276   
Administration                         390,822
Finance                            199,264
Solid Waste                            210,000
Buildings and Grounds                      536,569
Garage                               175,166
Police                            1,061,164
Fire                            1,081,010
Planning & Inspections                      287,050
Streets                                370,766
Parks and Recreation                         742,877
Community Building                         162,440
Tourism                            240,558
Powell Bill                            108,313
Total Expenditures                     $ 5,989,275
SECTION II. ELECTRIC FUND
Anticipated Revenues. The following revenues are estimated to be available in
the Electric Fund for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2016, and ending June
30, 2017:
Electricity Sales                      7,196,436
Utility Sales Taxes                          503,751
Underground Service Installations                160,000
Service Charges                      90,000
Other Revenues                               3,000
Total Revenues                     $ 7,953,000
Expenditures. The following amounts are hereby appropriated in the Electric
Fund for expenses for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2016, and ending June
30, 2017:
Total Expenditures                     $ 7,953,000
SECTION III. WATER AND SEWER FUND
Anticipated Revenues. The following revenues are estimated to be available in
the Water and Sewer Fund for the fiscal year beginning:
Water and Sewer Sales                  $ 3,267,000
Water and Sewer Tap Fees                      20,000
Sewer Impact Fees                      160,000
Water Impact Fees                      35,000            
Total Revenues                     $ 3,485,000
Expenditures. The following amounts are hereby appropriated in the Water and
Sewer Fund for expenses for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2016, and ending
June 30, 2017:
Total Expenditures                     $ 3,485,000
SECTION IV. TAX RATE
There is hereby levied, for fiscal year 2016-2017, a tax at the rate of $0.2456
on each one hundred dollars ($100) of assessed valuation of property located
within the City of Southport for the purpose of raising revenue in the General
Fund.
SECTION V. BUDGET OFFICER AUTHORITY
The city manager (budget officer) is hereby authorized to transfer
appropriations within a fund and between funds under the following terms:
He may transfer amounts between appropriations within the same fund, provided
that a report of such transfers shall be made no later than the next regular
financial report to the Board of Aldermen.
He may authorize temporary transfers of cash among funds as necessary to meet
cash flow needs.
All other transfers of funds between appropriations or budget funds shall be
accomplished by Board amendment of this ordinance.
SECTION VIII. CONTINUING AUTHORIZATION
Prior year Capital Reserve Fund is no longer a restriction of Fund Balance.
Previously-adopted capital project budgets, grant project budgets, and special
reserve funds are hereby un-authorized as all such projects have been completed
and all monies shall be returned to the associated funds upon adoption of the
Budget ordinance.
SECTION IX. BUDGET IMPLEMENTATION
This ordinance and the supporting budget document shall be the basis of the
financial plan for the City of Southport municipal government for the 2016-
2017fiscal year. The budget officer shall administer the budget and shall
insure the finance officer and department heads of the city are provided with
sufficient guidance to properly implement this plan. Copies of the budget
ordinance shall be furnished to the city manager and the finance officer for
their use and direction in the disbursement of funds and to the city clerk for
the official records of the city.
SECTION X. ADOPTION
This ordinance has been adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular
session on June 9, 2016, upon the motion of Alderman Powell and the second of
Alderman Poole, with a vote of 6 ayes and 0 noes, and shall be effective July
1, 2016.
                        /s/ J.V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
8.   Extending the Operation & Maintenance (O&M) Contract with Brunswick
Electric Membership Corporation (BEMC) to June 30, 2017
   Attorney Isenberg reported that the 5-year O&M Contract with BEMC expires at
the end of June while the meter reading contract runs another year. He stated
the proposal is for a one year extension of the O&M contract and for the City
Manager to negotiate a combined contract in 2017.
   The proposed contract entitled “Contract for The Operation and Maintenance
of the Electric Distribution System for the City of Southport, North Carolina”,
including all attachments, was discussed and considered by the Board. Upon a
motion by Alderman Powell, seconded by Alderman Poole, the following resolution
was adopted:
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Aldermen does hereby approve
the above-referenced Contract and all of said parts of said work covered by
said contract to the said Brunswick Electric Membership Corporation at and for
the rates and prices set out in the Contract, said approval being subject to
all conditions and stipulations set out in the Contract above-mentioned and the
Mayor is hereby authorized and directed to execute said Contract on behalf of
the City of Southport, North Carolina.
The foregoing resolution was adopted by unanimous vote.
   Alderman Adams asked about the meter reading contract with Ms. Bassett. City
Manager McDuffie responded that her contract runs through September 3 at which
time all water and electric meters are expected to be fully automated.
Board Comments
   Alderman Pukenas thanked the Beautification Committee.
   Alderman Adams thanked staff for pulling together and doing a good job on
the budget.
   Alderman Powell stated his appreciation to the city manager, staff and Board
for meeting on Saturdays and evenings to put the budget together.
   Mayor Dove thanked Board members for attending Town Hall Day.
Adjourn – 6:41 p.m.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Poole to adjourn the meeting.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.  
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
                        
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
JULY 6, 2016
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN            SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
FIRE DEPARTMENT HEADQUARTERS JULY 6, 2016
1011 N. HOWE STREET          SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Karen Mosteller, Nelson Adams,
            Todd Coring, Rick Pukenas
ABSENT:         Alderman Jim Powell
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   Tyler Johnston, Deputy Chief
   Gary Smith, Police Chief
   Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
A)   Call to Order – 4:30 p.m.
Mayor Dove called the meeting to order at 4:30
   Chief Drew gave the invocation.
   Mayor Dove stated the purpose of the special meeting was to discuss a Salary
Study.
   City Manager McDuffie explained that he had been requested by the Board to
do a salary study. He stated he used the 2015 North Carolina League of
Municipalities salary publication of actual salaries paid across the state. He
also worked with the Cape Fear Council of Government (COG) on a regional
average starting salary to draft a study. He indicated he had met with
department heads, received their recommendations and then individually met with
each Board member.
   City Manager McDuffie emphasized the need to do performance evaluations. He
stated that at the request of Alderman Mosteller, he had contacted the MAPS
Group about performing a salary study. The MAPS Group, which works with the
League of Municipalities, indicated the earliest they could work for the City
would be October with the process taking four (4) months. City Manager McDuffie
stated the considerations before the Board are:
   1. Adoption of the salary recommendations as presented by the city manager
and contracting for a salary study in July, 2017
   2. Granting a 1.9% COLA across the board and contracting for a salary study.
   Alderman Adams spoke in opposition to bringing in a company to do a salary
study, contending that an outside company would not know the individual. He
stated his confidence in the city manager to evaluate the employees and bring
the salaries in line as he had accomplished with the Police Department.
   Alderman Pukenas stated his support for an independent review by an outside
company and development of job descriptions.
   Alderman Mosteller talked about the importance of a methodically to the
city’s salary structure and she supported an outside agency. She noted that the
study would be a management tool and she emphasized that an outside agency that
works with the School of Government has the experience and access to in-depth
relevant data across the state.
   Alderman Coring stated his appreciation for the city manager’s work and he
supported a professional salary study. He pointed out that performance
evaluations had not been performed in many years, there seemed to be no
consistency in awarding pay adjustments and having a professional salary study
performed would show the employees a true justice. He noted that because of
health care savings, funding was available for a study.
   Alderman Adams voiced his concerns that too many studies are done that then
sit on a shelf and cannot be implemented. He shared his opinion that a “not in
my job description” attitude could result from the study and undermine the
current successful team effort.
   Mayor Dove recalled performing two (2) salary studies for the police
department during his tenure as chief. He stated his practice was to contact
local departments in order to do position comparisons.
   Alderman Poole emphasized the importance of job descriptions and a plan for
implementation of a study’s recommendations. She pointed out that the city
manager, directors and supervisors would need to work very closely with an
outside agency. She questioned if another company could do a study sooner than
the fall. She emphasized getting a company that understands municipalities. She
stated her position that the employees be given the 1.9% COLA. She explained
that a performance for pay process would require rating levels, performance
appraisal system, levels of performance and mandatory percentage tied with
them.
   City Manager McDuffie spoke about the MAPS Group assisting with performance
evaluations with the most important element being training of all supervisors
on how to do an and evaluation. He stated the MAPS Group would provide a
training course. He reported that department heads would be viewing a
Performance Evaluation Webinar at an upcoming staff meeting.
   Mayor Dove emphasized that many city employees are dedicated to serving the
city and its citizens and he cautioned not taking the human factor out of
evaluations.
   Alderman Coring shared that Brunswick County had contracted a salary study
and had implemented a 4 point system for grading.
   Responding to a concern from Alderman Adams, City Manager McDuffie stated
that no city employee’s salary would decrease from the results of a study.
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to give a 1.9% COLA to
all employees, ask for a professional salary study and the Board commit to
following through with the recommendations.
   Discussion
   Alderman Adams stated he would not vote for the salary study, noting that
many city employees, as shown by the city manager’s pay recommendations, could
not afford to wait seven (7) months.
   City Manager McDuffie answered specific funding questions posed by Alderman
Poole.
   Vote:   Aye:   Aldermen Coring, Pukenas Mosteller
    Nay:   Alderman Adams, Poole
   Motion Carried 3 – 2
Adjourn – 5:11 p.m.
   Alderman Adams motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to adjourn the
meeting. Unanimous vote; motion carried.  
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
JULY 14, 2016
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING JULY 14, 2016
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Karen Mosteller, Todd Coring,
            Rick Pukenas, Jim Powell (arrived @ 6:30 p.m.)
ABSENT:         Alderman Nelson Adams
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney   
   Gary Smith, Police Chief
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
   Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
   Randy Jones, Tourism Director
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Dove called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Poole welcomed everyone and gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Poole led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Public Comment
   Mr. Rick Johnstone, 110 Willis Drive, voiced concerns about a recent
Planning Board approval of a 70 room Residential Hotel at 704 E. Moore Street.
He stated his opinion that the approval was incorrectly done, staff
interpretation was erroneous and the Board of Aldermen should have reviewed it.
He cited sections of the Unified Development Ordinance (UDO) and provided
copies of the same to Board members and the clerk.
   Mr. Rick Ulrich, 313 E. Moore Street, speaking as a consultant for some 90
residents who signed a petition in opposition to the River Hotel of Southport,
shared his opinion that the review process for the hotel moved too quickly. He
questioned why additional permits from federal and state agencies were not
needed prior to approval.
   Mr. Johnstone provided a petition in opposition to the River Hotel of
Southport to the Clerk.
   Mayor Dove called on the Building Inspector. Mr. Strickland explained the
process of review for a planned building group submittal for a permitted use in
commercial zoning. He stated that the applicant met all requirements. He
pointed out that there are no federal wetlands on the property and no
structures are proposed to be built in the CAMA 75 ft. Area of Environmental
Concern (AEC). He added that the project would require a state storm water
permit.
   Attorney Isenberg explained that the sole role of the Planning Board for
review of a permitted use is to determine if the proposed project meets the
requirements of the UDO.
E)   Approval of Agenda
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Poole to approve the agenda.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Dove stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
F)   Announcements
   Mayor Dove announced that he would hold a Mayor’s Day on Thursday, July 21,
4:00 – 5:30 p.m. at the fire substation, 111 E. Nash Street.
G)   Special Recognition   
   Alderman Coring read a Resolution of Appreciation into the record:
RESOLUTION OF APPRECIATION
WHEREAS, for over 200 years the City of Southport has celebrated our nation’s
independence; and
WHEREAS, the City of Southport is the official Home of the NC 4th of July
Festival; and
WHEREAS, the 4th of July festival draws an estimated 30,000 to 50,000 people to
Southport and its surrounding communities; and
WHEREAS, the festival highlights over 150 arts and craft vendors, food vendors,
a parade, freedom run, veteran’s recognition, naturalization ceremony, children
games, firefighter’s competition, flag retirement ceremony, fireworks and more;
and
WHEREAS, the N.C. 4th of July Festival could not be realized without the
Festival Board of Directors, Committees, hundreds of volunteers and dedicated
hard work of city staff that strive year round to promote and organize this
event, along with emergency services personnel who safeguard festival visitors;
and.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the City of Southport recognizes and thanks
each and every individual who tirelessly gave of their time and energy to make
the 2016 NC 4th of July Festival a memorable occasion.
ADOPTED this the 14th day of July 2016.
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to adopt the
Resolution of Appreciation. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to approve the consent
agenda. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   1.   Minutes of May 14, 2016 Recessed Meeting including Closed Session
– approved
      Minutes of May 16, 2016 Recessed Meeting – approved
      Minutes of June 9, 2016 Regular Meeting - approved
   2.   Approval of 4-Way Stop at E. Nash Street & Atlantic Avenue – approved
   3.   Road Closure Request for Upcoming Events – approved
   4.   Preliminary Plat Approval, The Oaks At Highland Park Phase 2 – approved
   5.   An Ordinance Amending Chapter 10, Article VII, of the Southport City
Code, For-Hire Tours –     approved (Ordinance on file in the Clerk’s office)
   6.   Amendment to Brunswick Electric Membership Corp. (BEMC) Contract for
Electric Customer     Account Services – approved (Contract on file in the
Clerk’s office)
AGENDA
   7.   Public Hearing: Contiguous Annexation of City Owned Property Recorded
in    Book 3765 at Page 1139 of the Brunswick County Registry
Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Poole to go into public hearing.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
City Attorney Isenberg explained that the annexation is for city owned property
that was previously donated to the city by Mr. Roy Daniels.
No one from the public spoke.
Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to close the public
hearing. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   8.   Consideration of An Ordinance to Extend the Corporate Limits of the
City of Southport
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Coring to adopt the Ordinance to
Extend the Corporate Limits of the City of Southport. Unanimous vote; motion
carried.
   AN ORDINANCE TO EXTEND THE CORPORATE LIMITS OF THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT, NORTH
CAROLINA
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen has adopted a resolution under G. S. 160A-31
stating its’ intent to annex the area described below owned by the City of
Southport; and
   WHEREAS, a public hearing on the question of this annexation was held at the
Southport Community building at 6:00 pm on July 14, 2016, after due notice; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that the proposed annexation
meets the requirements of G. S. 160A-31;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport, North Carolina that:
   Section 1. By virtue of the authority granted by G. S. 160A-31, the
following described contiguous property owned by the City of Southport is
hereby annexed and made part of the City of Southport as of the date hereof:
BEGINNING at the northeast corner of that tract or parcel owned by Roy C.
Daniel, Jr. as more particularly described in a deed from Eunice F. Huntley et
vir to Roy C. Daniel, Jr. et ux recorded in Book 240 at Page 533, Brunswick
County Registry. Said point being in the northern line of Tract 7 of the Taylor
Woodside Division as surveyed by Percy Canady on October 10, 1947, a map of
which is recorded in Map Book 2 ½ at Page 192, Brunswick County Registry. From
said place and point of BEGINNING thus located, runs thence with the northern
line of Tract 7 of the Taylor Woodside Division South 74° 54’ 34” East 1700.20
feet to N.C. State Highway #211, runs thence with the right-of-way line of N.C.
State Highway #211 a southerly course 60 feet to a point; runs thence leaving
the right-of-way line of said N.C. State Highway #211 North 74° 50’ 34” West,
parallel to the first call to the eastern line of that trace or parcel of land
described in the said Book 240 at Page 533, Brunswick County Registry; runs
thence with the eastern line of said trace described in Book 240 at Page 533,
Brunswick Country Registry, a northerly direction to the place and point of
BEGINNING. This being the same property conveyed to the City of Southport in
Book 3765 Page 1139 of the Brunswick County Registry.       
   Section 2. The Mayor shall cause to be recorded in the office of the
Register of Deeds of Brunswick County and in the Office of the Secretary of
State in Raleigh, North Carolina, an accurate map of the annexed territory,
together with a certified copy of this ordinance. Such a map shall also be
delivered to the Brunswick County Board of Elections as required by G. S. 163-
288.1.
   Adopted this 14th day of July, 2016.      City of Southport
                                                                BY: /s/ J. V.
Dove, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
   9.   Public Hearing: Unified Development Ordinance (UDO) Text Amendment,
Article 2, Section 2-2 (282) Definition of Residential Hotel  
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to go into public
hearing. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Mr. Strickland explained that the amendment proposed by the Planning Board
would reduce the number of rooms permitted for a Residential Hotel to 10.
   Mr. Johnstone contended that a change to the definition alone would not
prohibit a hotel with 70 rooms in other commercial zoning districts.
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Powell to close the public
hearing. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   10.   Consideration of An Ordinance Approving a Text Amendment to the UDO
   City Attorney Isenberg recommended a revision to the following sentence in
the proposed text amendment: Kitchen area separate from the living or sleeping
areas shall may be provided and cooking may be done only in the kitchen area.
Additionally, he pointed out that the word “suites” involves one or more rooms
and he asked if the intent of limiting the residential hotel to ten (10) rooms
should actually be ten rental units.
   Alderman Powell stated his understanding that the Board had agreed to
conduct a review of the UDO prior to making any revisions.
   Noting the proposed amendment was made by the Planning Board and was a stop
gap measure to prevent another residential hotel adjoining residential zoning,
Alderman Mosteller concurred that areas of the UDO did need to be addressed.
   Attorney Isenberg presented an amended Ordinance incorporating four (4)
specific finding.
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to adopt An Ordinance
Approving a Text Amendment to the UDO, Article 2, Section 2-2 (282) Definition
of Residential Hotel, incorporating Attorney Isenberg’s wording change, four
specific findings, and limiting the number of total rooms to 10.
Ayes:   Aldermen Poole, Pukenas, Coring, Mosteller
Nay:   Alderman Powell
Motion carried 4-1
AN ORDINANCE APPROVING A TEXT AMENDMENT TO THE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
   THAT WHEREAS, the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance and other
land use ordinances that control land development within both the City’s
incorporated areas and within its extraterritorial area; and
   WHEREAS, in order to promote the public health, safety and general welfare
and to promote the best interest of the city and community, it is necessary for
the City Board of Aldermen from time to time to consider appropriate revisions,
modifications and additions to the city’s land use ordinances; and
   WHEREAS, City Staff, in conjunction with the Planning Board, has prepared
the attached proposed amendment to Section 2 of the Southport Unified
Development Ordinance; and
   WHEREAS, the Planning Board has thoroughly considered this matter and finds
the proposed amendment to the Unified Development Ordinance to be consistent
with the City of Southport CAMA Core Land Use Plan and recommend its approval;
and
   WHEREAS, pursuant to N. C. General Statutes and city ordinances, a public
hearing, properly noticed, was held on July 14, 2016, before the Board of
Aldermen regarding this issue; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen, after considering the public hearing
response and the recommendation of the Planning Board, hereby find that this
proposed amendment to the Unified Development Ordinance is consistent with the
Southport CAMA Core Land Use Plan; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that this amendment is reasonable
and in the public interest in that (i) this amendment defines “residential
hotel” to be on a smaller scale than a “hotel” so as to protect the property
values of nearby property owners and protect the character of the neighborhood
and secure the public safety, (ii) the UDO already provides for “hotels” within
the City’s jurisdiction in zones more appropriate for larger scale
construction, (iii) it would not be appropriate and in the public interest to
allow larger scale hotels in areas near residential zones and (iv) this
amendment is more consistent with the spirit, purpose and intent of the city’s
CAMA Core Land Use Plan than allowing large scale hotels in the applicable
zones.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that the
attached amendment to Section 2 of the Southport Unified Development Ordinance
is hereby approved and adopted.
This, the 14th day of July, 2016       City of Southport
                     BY: /s/ J.V. Dove, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
Residential Hotel. A building or group of buildings, limited to a maximum of 10
rooms total, providing lodging for persons, with or without meals, and intended
and used for the accommodation of transient lodgers in suites designed in such
a fashion that reflects the intended use for transient lodgers and not for
permanent residential accommodation. Suites may have one or more rooms in
addition to bathrooms, water closet compartments, laundry, pantry, foyer,
communicating corridor, closets, or any dining alcove. Kitchen area separate
from the living or sleeping areas may be provided and cooking may be done only
in the kitchen area. The definition of residential hotels shall not include
housing units defined in this section, but may include services ordinarily
provided by hotels, such as maid, desk, and laundry services.
   11.   Appointments to the Beautification Committee
   Alderman Mosteller thanked out going members of the Beautification
Committee. Stating that four (4) vacancies existed, she recommended re-
appointment of Marjorie Jones, 136 Stuart Avenue and new appointments of Robert
(Nick) Kern, 415 N. Burrington Avenue, Kathleen Singley, 113 W. West Street and
Bonnie Bray, 515 Quarter Master Drive.
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to appoint those
recommended by Alderman Mosteller to the Beautification Committee for two year
terms. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Alderman Mosteller announced that the Beautification Committee meetings are
held on the first Tuesday of each month at 7:00 p.m. in the Fire Department
Substation, 111 E. Nash Street. She encouraged the public to attend and get
involved.
   12.   Appointment to Zoning Board of Adjustment
   Alderman Poole stated that a vacancy existed on the Board of Adjustment and
Mr. Harley Lemons had applied for re-appointment. She said that Mr. Lemons had
served professionally on the Board and she motioned, second by Alderman Powell
to re-appoint Mr. Lemons. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Board Comments
   Alderman Mosteller invited the public to the next Beautification Committee
city clean-up on Saturday, August 6, 9:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m.
   Alderman Pukenas thanked the Public Services Department for the prompt
clean-up after the 4th of July festivities.
   City Manager McDuffie reported that a position on the ABC Board had been
advertised and Mr. Harold Spencer, Sr. asked to be reappointed.
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Powell to re-appoint Mr. Harold
Spencer, Sr. to the ABC Board. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Adjourn – 6:49 p.m.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to adjourn the meeting.
Unanimous vote; motion carried. 
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
AUGUST 11, 2016
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING JULY 14, 2016
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Karen Mosteller, Nelson Adams,
            Todd Coring, Rick Pukenas
ABSENT:         Alderman Jim Powell
            City Manager Kerry McDuffie
STAFF PRESENT:      Michele Windham, City Clerk
         Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
   Gary Smith, Police Chief
   David Fox, Public Works Director
   Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
   Randy Jones, Tourism Director
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   Teresa Mosley, Human Resources Technician
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Dove called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
   Alderman Adams welcomed everyone and Mayor Dove gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Adams led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Public Comment
There was no public comment.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Dove stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”   
E)   Approval of Agenda
   Mayor Dove requested additions to the agenda: Consent Agenda Item 2 add,
Resolution Awarding Badge and Service Side Arm to Retiring Officer; add Item 8
to the Consent Agenda, Resolution Regarding the Use of Grinder Pumps in New
Developments and renumbering agenda items 8 and 9.
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to approve the agenda
as amended. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
F)   Announcements
   Mayor Dove announced that Alderman Adams was celebrating a birthday and he
led the gathering in singing Happy Birthday.
   Mayor Dove thanked the Beautification Committee for their recent clean-up
efforts at the entry corridor triangle.
   Mayor Dove recognized and praised all who participated in the MDA Lock-up
which raised $42,000. He thanked the Fire Department for hosting the event.
   Mayor Dove congratulated Alderman Pukenas, proprietor of The Robert Ruark
Inn, for receiving the Trip Advisor Service Award of Excellence.
   Mayor Dove introduced Mr. Thomas Lloyd, new City Planner.
   Mayor Dove announced that he would hold a Mayor’s Day on Thursday, August
18, 4:00 – 5:30 p.m. at the Fire Substation, 111 E. Nash Street.
   Mayor Dove thanked Tourism Director, Randy Jones and Parks & Recreation
Director, Heather Hemphill for concert events in Franklin Square Park and
children’s activities.
   Alderman Mosteller thanked Downtown Southport Inc. (DSI) for donating the
new planters and the Garden Club for the plantings. She added that the
Beautification Committee, DSI, Garden Club and Forestry Committee would be
working together to establish community standards.
   Mr. Rick Rowe, commercial and real estate developer with Wakefield
Associates addressed the Board. He asked for approval of the residential
component of the development at N.C. 211 and Long Beach Road Extension. He
stated that the residential area is surrounded by wetlands and would be
comprised of 41 lots with an average size of 7,100 sq. ft. Mr. Rowe stated that
Wakefield Associates is working with the North Carolina Department of
Transportation (NCDOT) regarding a possible interchange that as planned now
could adversely impact the project. Responding to a query from Mayor Dove, Mr.
Rowe confirmed that Lowes Food would be a tenant of the retail area and he
added that there had been good interest in the development from a clothing
store, fast-food restaurants, a drug store and a coffee shop. Mr. Rowe
indicated that Wakefield Associates is moving ahead with the design phase and
would soon be submitting utilities drawings, roadway design and stormwater
design to the city. He anticipated the site work would take a year and a year
to construct the buildings.
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to approve the consent
agenda. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   1.   Minutes for May 31, 2016 Recessed Meeting – approved
      Minutes of July 6 Special Meeting – approved
      Minutes of July 14, 2016 Regular Meeting – approved
   2.   Resolution Awarding Badge and Service Side Arm to Retiring Officer –
approved
   3.   Rivermist Subdivision Street Acceptance: Viking Crest Lane – approved
   4.   Preliminary Plat Approval, Southport Crossing – approved
   5.   Acceptance of Access Easement Agreement with Southport Marina –
approved
   6.   Acceptance of planters donated by Downtown Southport, Inc. – approved 
   7.   Approval of Annual Tax Settlement and Releases – approved 
   8.   Resolution Regarding The Use Of Grinder Pumps In New Developments –
approved 
AGENDA
   9.   Military Appreciation Day Resolution
   Alderman Pukenas read the Military Appreciation Day Resolution into the
record:
CITY OF SOUTHPORT
MILITARY APPRECIATION DAY RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the rights of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness, enumerated
in our Declaration of Independence, secured by the Constitution and the Bill of
Rights, and enjoyed by every citizen of the United States, are a direct result
of the dedication of the members of the United States Armed Forces; and
WHEREAS, the sacrifices made by the members of the United States Armed Forces
and the family members who support them preserve the liberties that enrich this
nation; and
WHEREAS, the citizens of Southport wish to recognize and honor active members
of the United States Armed Forces, as well as their families, for their service
and sacrifice; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that I, J.V. Dove, Mayor of the City of
Southport and the Board of Aldermen, do hereby proclaim the second Saturday of
each September as:
Military Appreciation Day in Southport
and call this observance to the attention of all our citizens.
This, the 11th day of August, 2016            City of Southport
                     By: /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Adams to adopt the Military
Appreciation Day Resolution. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   The resolution was presented to Hank Pomeranz, event organizer. He announced
that on the second Saturday of every September the Southport Marina brings in
150 active duty troops to the city and citizens take them out fishing, families
are entertained and a picnic is served. He encouraged all to attend and to
welcome the troops.
10.   Arbor Day Resolution
   Alderman Mosteller read the Arbor Day Resolution into the record:
ARBOR DAY RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, in 1972, J. Sterling Morton proposed to the Nebraska Board of
Agriculture that a special day be set aside for the planting of trees, and
WHEREAS, this holiday called Arbor Day, was first observed with the planting of
more than a million trees in Nebraska, and
WHEREAS, Arbor Day is now observed throughout the nation and the world, and
WHEREAS, trees can reduce the erosion of our precious topsoil by wind and
water, cut heating and cooling costs, moderate the temperature, clean the air,
produce life-giving oxygen, and provide habitat for wildlife, and
WHEREAS, trees are a renewable resource giving us paper, wood for our homes,
fuel for our fires, and beautify our community, and
WHEREAS, trees in our city increase property values, enhance the economic
vitality of business areas, and beautify our community, and
WHEREAS, trees wherever they are planted are a source of joy and spiritual
renewal.
NOW, THEREFORE, I J.V. Dove, Mayor of the City of Southport, NC, and the Board
of Aldermen, do hereby proclaim September 9, 2016 as ARBOR DAY in the City and
urge all citizens to celebrate and support efforts to protect our trees and
woodlands, and
FURTHER, I urge all citizens to plant trees to gladden the heart and promote
the well-being of this and future generations.
DATED, this 11th day of August, 2016.
                     /s/ J.V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
   Alderman Adams motioned, second by Alderman Coring to adopt the Arbor Day
Resolution. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   The resolution was presented to Mr. Scott Len, Chair of the city’s Forestry
Committee.
   Alderman Mosteller announced that Arbor Day in Southport would be observed
on Friday, September 9 at 11:00 a.m. on the Garrison lawn. She stated that a
tree would be planted in honor of former Alderman Meezie Childs.
BOARD COMMENTS
   Alderman Mosteller announced that Southport was a recipient of the Pelican
Award from the NC Coastal Federation Foundation. She expressed her pride in
Southport noting that Southport had taken a leadership role in 2014 and 2015
against off shore seismic testing and oil drilling. She indicated that she and
Alderman Coring had accepted the award on Southport’s behalf at a ceremony in
Beaufort, NC.
Adjourn – 6:32 p.m.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Poole to adjourn the meeting.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.  
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
SEPTEMBER 8, 2016
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING SEPTEMBER 8, 2016
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Karen Mosteller, Todd Coring,
            Rick Pukenas, Jim Powell, Nelson Adams
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney   
   Gary Smith, Police Chief
   David Fox, Public Works Director
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
   Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
   Randy Jones, Tourism Director   
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   Teresa Parker-Mosley, Human Resources Technician
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Dove called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Pukenas welcomed everyone and Reverend Reginald Simmons, St. Phillips
Episcopal Church, gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Pukenas led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Public Comment
   Ms. Linda Baker, 4359 Frying Pan Road, a new resident to the area, expressed
her concerns about the condition of the pavement on the new Long Beach Road
extension, the proposed interchange at NC 211/133 that will impact an approved
commercial development and the widening of NC 211 into Southport.
   Mr. Ed Glenn, 202 N. Atlantic Avenue, stated his opinion that Southport is
under attack from development and needs a vision statement prepared by the
Planning Board that encompasses Southport’s values, that the Planning Board be
given review authority for residential and non-residential developments and
that a Southport Historic District be adopted.
E)   Approval of Agenda
   Mayor Dove requested the following amendments to the Agenda:
   1.   Substitute the short Extension of Contract For Disaster Debris
Monitoring Services agreement as provided to you tonight as Consent Agenda #4.
   2.   Remove items 3, 6, 7, and 8 from the consent agenda and place them on
the regular agenda as items 8, 9, 10, and 11.
   3.   Renumber the remaining items on the Consent Agenda as items 1-7.
   4.   Add a closed session at the end of the agenda to discuss personnel.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to approve the agenda as
amended. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Dove stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
F)   Announcements
   Mayor Dove thanked the Beautification Committee for the clean-up at
Northwood Cemetery and the Jaycees Building.
   Mayor Dove thanked Ellie Pittenger for applying for a grant from Duke Energy
towards an electric charging station.
   Mayor Dove thanked Downtown Southport Inc. (DSI) for a successful Farmers
Market season.
   Mayor Dove thanked the Parks & Recreation Director and staff for hosting the
Crab Derby and providing summer programs for children.
   Mayor Dove announced that Arbor Day in Southport would be celebrated Friday,
September 9 on the Garrison Lawn.
   Mayor Dove thanked the Fire/Rescue, Police and Public Works Departments for
keeping the city safe during Hurricane Hermine.
   Mayor Dove announced that he would hold a Mayor’s Day on Thursday, September
15, 4:00 – 5:30 p.m. at the fire substation, 111 E. Nash Street.
   City Manager McDuffie reported that staff had met with the Department of
Motor Vehicles (DMV) and were advised that the DMV will discontinue use of a
mobile unit to Southport as of September 30th. He said that in order to keep
the service coming to Southport, the DMV needed space in a city facility. He
stated that after visiting 201 E. Moore Street and the fire substation at 111
E. Nash, it was determined that the DMV would temporarily use the Fire
Prevention Training Room at Fire Headquarters until a permanent location can be
found. City Manager McDuffie announced that the DMV will be in Southport on
Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday of the first week of each month beginning
October 4, 5, & 6.
   Alderman Mosteller announced that the Beautification Committee in
conjunction with the Ocean Conservancy and Brunswick County Solid Waste
Department would be participating in the International Cleanup Day to be held
on Saturday, September 17, 9:00 – 11:00 a.m. with focus on the Waterfront.
   Alderman Coring talked about the 911 Remembrance Day at the fire station
that will include an open house and a family fun day.
   Alderman Pukenas stated that the Military Appreciation Day is to honor the
service of active military with members to be taken fishing in the morning and
provided dinner at 4:00. He encouraged citizens to attend.
   Alderman Pukenas announced that the 7th annual Wooden Boat Show would be
held, Saturday, September 24 in the Yacht Basin. He read the Resolution in
Support of the Wooden Boat Show into the record and presented it to Ms. Martha
Johnson.
   Alderman Poole announced that the 3rd annual Peace Day would be held Sunday,
September 18 on the Fort Johnston Garrison lawn from 2:00 – 4:00 p.m. She read
the Resolution in Support of the International Day of Peace into the record and
presented it to Ms. Marjorie Jones.
   Alderman Adams expressed his pride that the Mt. Carmel AME Church had been
126 years on the corner of Lord & St. George Streets. He invited all to attend
the evening services on Sunday, September 25 to celebrate the 126th
anniversary. Mayor Dove indicated that he would be attending and presenting a
proclamation in recognition of the anniversary.
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to approve the consent
agenda. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   1.   Minutes of August 11, 2016 Regular Meeting – approved
   2.   Budget Amendment #1: Water AMI Project – approved
   3.   Johnson Environmental & Disaster Consulting Services; Disaster Debris
Monitoring Services Contract Extension – approved (Contract on file in the
Clerk’s office)
   4.   Phillips & Jordan Disaster Debris Removal Services Contract Extension –
approved (Contract on file in the Clerk office)
   5.   Resolution in Support of the Wooden Boat Show – approved
   6.   Resolution in Support of the International Day of Peace – approved
   7.   Resolution to Establish a No-Wake Zone in the Intracoastal Waterway in
Brunswick County, North Carolina – approved
Budget Amendment
Fiscal Year 2016-2017
Budget Amendment #1
WHEREAS the City of Southport AMI project needs to process a change order for
additional water meters and to appropriate water fund balance for the carryover
of the budget from prior year; and
WHEREAS there are sufficient funds in the Water Fund Balance; and
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2016-2017 needs to be amended to
reflect the use of these funds;
   BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2016-2017 shall be
amended as follows:
Water Fund Revenues                        Increase
Appropriate Water Fund Balance
31-91-3991-0000               $127,356
Water Fund Expenditures
Capital Outlay - FACILITIES
31-91-7130-5800               $ 127,356
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, September 8,
2016             
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor   
/s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, on Saturday, September 24, 2016 the Southport Wooden Boat Show will be
held at the Old Southport Yacht Basin; and
WHEREAS, the 7th Annual Southport Wooden Boat Show, sponsored by the SWBS
Committee in conjunction with Downtown Southport, Inc., a 501(c) 3 organization
will be held from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m.; and
WHEREAS, this year’s show is expected to be bigger and better than the previous
events with more boats, demonstrators, nautical/maritime exhibits and children
events; and
WHEREAS, boats will be displayed in and around the historic Old Yacht Basin;
and
WHEREAS, visitors can meet and talk with wooden boat makers and owners; and
WHEREAS, visitors will be able to vote for their favorite boat entrant for the
People’s Choice Award, and
WHEREAS, other awards will be given in various categories; and
WHEREAS, wooden boat shows across the country are popular with boat builders
and restorers; and
WHEREAS, the Southport Wooden Boat Show Committee encourages people to preserve
the wooden boat and nautical history for which Southport is known.
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Mayor and Southport Board of Aldermen
on this the 8th day of September, hereby proclaim September 24, 2016 as
Southport Wooden Boat Show Day in the City of Southport and invite citizens and
surrounding communities to help make this day a success.
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor      
/s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
SOUTHPORT
RESOLUTION IN SUPPORT OF INTERNATIONAL DAY OF PEACE
WHEREAS, The United Nations in 1981 established a yearly International Day of
Peace, a day devoted to commemorating and strengthening the ideals of peace
both within and among all nations and people; and
WHEREAS, The International Day of Peace is now observed around the world each
year on September 21 to put aside all that separates us and to experience
peace; and
WHEREAS, the theme of the 2016 International Day of Peace is AThe Sustainable
Development Goals: Building Blocks for Peace@; and
WHEREAS, Southport residents are coordinating a celebration of the
International Day of Peace on a local level; and
WHEREAS, the Celebration of Peace will be held on the historic Fort Johnston
lawn and will include songs, dances, art, peace information and literature, and
children=s crafts; and
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Mayor and Southport Board of Aldermen
on this the 8th day of September 2016, hereby proclaim Sunday, September 18,
2016 as APeace Day@ in the City of Southport and urge all citizens to join in
the festivities of this day and promote peace among all peoples.
   /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA
COUNTY OF BRUNSWICK
RESOLUTION TO ESTABLISH A NO-WAKE ZONE IN THE INTRACOASTAL WATERWAY IN
BRUNSWICK COUNTY, NORTH CAROLINA
WHEREAS, the area of the Intracoastal Waterway between Waterway Marker 1A and
Waterway Marker 2A in the area abutting the City of Southport, is an area of
extremely high boating traffic, and includes marinas where vessels are docked
and fueled;
WHEREAS, boating traffic creates hazardous and dangerous conditions in the
above described area, due to boating congestion, appreciable wakes that result
in damage to vessels, fuel spills, and personal injuries due to falls, when
vessels are traveling at speeds substantially above idle speed.
WHEREAS, this has been a long established and recognized problem, resulting in
the North Carolina Legislature in North Carolina Session Law 1993-67, declaring
it unlawful under North Carolina state law to operate a vessel at greater than
a no-wake speed in the Intracoastal Waterway between Waterway Marker 1A and
Waterway Marker 2A in the area abutting the City of Southport.
WHEREAS, subsequent to the enactment of Session Law 1993-67, the United States
Corps of Engineers notified state and local authorities that because the
Intracoastal Waterway was constructed for the purpose of facilitating
commercial boating traffic, and is under the authority of the United States
Corps of Engineers, that the North Carolina State Law is pre-empted by federal
authority.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT NORTH CAROLINA BOARD OF
ALDERMEN THAT:
1.   The governing body of the City of Southport, North Carolina hereby
requests that the United States Corps of Engineers, the United States
Department of Commerce, or such other authority or entity establish such
federal law, United States Code, or Code of Federal Regulations as necessary
that it is unlawful to operate a vessel at greater than a no-wake speed in the
Intracoastal Waterway between Waterway Marker 1A and Waterway Marker 2A in the
area abutting the City of Southport, North Carolina.
2.   Such federal law or regulation authorize enforcement of the above
described no-wake zone by law enforcement personnel of the State of North
Carolina and Brunswick County.
Alderman Powell moved for the adoption of the forgoing resolution.
Alderman Coring seconded the motion and, upon vote, the same was adopted.
This the 8th day of September, 2016.
   /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
AGENDA
8.   Norris & Tunstall Proposal for Professional Civil Engineering Services,
Historic Southport City Hall Re-Roof
City Manager McDuffie explained that Norris & Tunstall had provided a proposal
for civil engineering services relating to the 201 E. Moore Street roof project
that originally was started with Architect, Stephanie Seeber who has since gone
out of business. He stated that Ms. Seeber’s design can be used by Norris &
Tunstall who will bid out the project and oversee construction administration.
City Manager McDuffie indicated that staff recommends accepting the proposal in
the lump sum amount of $17,500. Additionally, he stated that staff recommends
using the $250,000 appropriated for purchase of land for a new Public Works
facility towards the roof replacement on the 201 E. Moore Street building in
lieu of obtaining a loan.
Attorney Isenberg advised that language should be removed from the second
sentence in the second paragraph of page 3 that references the City
indemnifying the Engineer.
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to authorized
expenditure of the $250,000 for the roof replacement, and accept the proposal
from Norris & Tunstall for services with the second sentence in the second
paragraph of page 3 removed;
It is further agreed that the Owner will defend, indemnify and hold harmless
the Engineer from any claim or suit whatsoever, including but not limited to
all payments, expenses or costs involved, arising from all alleged to have
arisen by the contractor’s performance or the failure of the contractor’s work
to conform to the design intent and the contract documents.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
9.   Resolution Authorizing Submittal for a Loan and Grant for Construction of
a Wastewater Treatment Plant
   City Manager McDuffie explained to the Board that the city is currently
leasing wastewater capacity from Brunswick County. He stated that staff had met
with the County and the County proposed to sell the city one (1) million
gallons of capacity for $28 million. He said that a cost-analysis for
construction of a wastewater treatment plant on city-owned property near Sunny
Point Military Ocean Terminal was requested from engineering firm Norris &
Tunstall. City Manager McDuffie reported that the cost-analysis showed that the
city could construct a million-gallon-per-day wastewater treatment plant for
$18.3 million which would make construction of a facility the most cost
effective option for the city. He further explained staff’s recommendation to
apply for grants and interest-free loans, as a recent state bond made added
money available, and the city would likely qualify for a zero-percent interest
loan which could potentially save the city upwards to $8 million.
   Responding to a query by Alderman Pukenas, City Manager McDuffie explained
that the state mandated closure of the former wastewater treatment plant. He
talked about the purchase of 430 acres near Sunny Point and the suitability of
the land for a wastewater treatment facility.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to adopt a resolution
authorizing staff to submit an application for a state loan and grant for
construction of a wastewater treatment plant. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
RESOLUTION BY GOVERNING BODY OF APPLICANT
WHEREAS,   The Federal Clean Water Act Amendments of 1987 and the North
Carolina Water Infrastructure Act of 2005 (NCGS 159G) have authorized the
making of loans and grants to aid eligible units of government in financing the
cost of construction of a wastewater treatment works project, and
WHEREAS,   The City of Southport has need for and intends to construct a
wastewater treatment works project described as a new wastewater treatment
plant, and
WHEREAS,   The City of Southport intends to request state loan and grant (if
available) assistance for the project,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, BY THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN OF THE CITY OF
SOUTHPORT:
That the City of Southport, the Applicant, will arrange financing for all
remaining costs of the project, if approved for a State (loan or grant) award.
That the Applicant will adopt and place into effect on or before completion of
the project a schedule of fees and charges and other available funds which will
provide adequate funds for proper operation, maintenance, and administration of
the system and the repayment of all principal and interest on the debt.
That the governing body of the Applicant agrees to include in the loan
agreement a provision authorizing the State Treasurer, upon failure of the City
of Southport to make scheduled repayment of the loan, to withhold from the City
of Southport any State funds that would otherwise be distributed to the local
government unit in an amount sufficient to pay all sums then due and payable to
the State as a repayment of the loan.
That the Applicant will provide for efficient operation and maintenance of the
project on completion of construction thereof.
That Kerry McDuffie, City Manager, the Authorized Official, and successors so
titled, is hereby authorized to execute and file an application on behalf of
the Applicant with the State of North Carolina for a (loan or grant) to aid in
the construction of the project described above.
That the Authorized Official, and successors so titled, is hereby authorized
and directed to furnish such information as the appropriate State agency may
request in connection with such application or the project: to make the
assurances as contained above; and to execute such other documents as may be
required in connection with the application.
That the Applicant has substantially complied or will substantially comply with
all Federal, State, and local laws, rules, regulations, and ordinances
applicable to the project and to Federal and State grants and loans pertaining
thereto.
Adopted this the 8th day of September, 2016 at Southport, North Carolina.
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk   
10.   Resolution Requesting State Loan and Grant for a Wastewater Collection
   System Assessment and Mapping
11.   Resolution Requesting State Loan and Grant for a Water Distribution
   Assessment and Mapping
   City Manager McDuffie presented staff’s recommendations to submit loan and
grant applications to assess and map the city’s existing water distribution and
wastewater collection systems. He stated that the mapping would create digital
files making for easier tracking and inventory of those assets. He indicated
that the Cape Fear Council of Government provided an estimate of $70,000 for
the assessment and mapping. He stated he anticipated an 80% grant with a 20%
city match, approximately $14,000.
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to adopt the
Resolutions. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
RESOLUTION BY GOVERNING BODY OF APPLICANT
WHEREAS,   The Federal Clean Water Act Amendments of 1987 and the North
Carolina Water Infrastructure Act of 2005 (NCGS 159G) have authorized the
making of loans and grants to aid eligible units of government in financing the
cost of a wastewater collection system project, and
WHEREAS,   The City of Southport has need for and intends to complete a
wastewater collection system project described as facilities assessment of the
City’s wastewater collection system to include system mapping, and
WHEREAS,   The City of Southport intends to request state loan and grant (if
available) assistance for the project,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, BY THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN OF THE CITY OF
SOUTHPORT:
That the City of Southport, the Applicant, will arrange financing for all
remaining costs of the project, if approved for a State (loan or grant) award.
That the Applicant will adopt and place into effect on or before completion of
the project a schedule of fees and charges and other available funds which will
provide adequate funds for proper operation, maintenance, and administration of
the system and the repayment of all principal and interest on the debt.
That the governing body of the Applicant agrees to include in the loan
agreement a provision authorizing the State Treasurer, upon failure of the City
of Southport to make scheduled repayment of the loan, to withhold from the City
of Southport any State funds that would otherwise be distributed to the local
government unit in an amount sufficient to pay all sums then due and payable to
the State as a repayment of the loan.
That the Applicant will provide for efficient operation and maintenance of the
project on completion of construction thereof.
That Kerry McDuffie, City Manager, the Authorized Official, and successors so
titled, is hereby authorized to execute and file an application on behalf of
the Applicant with the State of North Carolina for a (loan or grant) to aid in
the construction of the project described above.
That the Authorized Official, and successors so titled, is hereby authorized
and directed to furnish such information as the appropriate State agency may
request in connection with such application or the project: to make the
assurances as contained above; and to execute such other documents as may be
required in connection with the application.
That the Applicant has substantially complied or will substantially comply with
all Federal, State, and local laws, rules, regulations, and ordinances
applicable to the project and to Federal and State grants and loans pertaining
thereto.
Adopted this the 8th day of September, 2016 at Southport, North Carolina.
                     /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
RESOLUTION BY GOVERNING BODY OF APPLICANT
WHEREAS,   The Federal Clean Water Act Amendments of 1987 and the North
Carolina Water Infrastructure Act of 2005 (NCGS 159G) have authorized the
making of loans and grants to aid eligible units of government in financing the
cost of a drinking water distribution project, and
WHEREAS,   The City of Southport has need for and intends to complete a
drinking water distribution system project described as facilities assessment
of the City’s drinking water distribution system to include system mapping, and
WHEREAS,   The City of Southport intends to request state loan and grant (if
available) assistance for the project,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, BY THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN OF THE CITY OF
SOUTHPORT:
That the City of Southport, the Applicant, will arrange financing for all
remaining costs of the project, if approved for a State (loan or grant) award.
That the Applicant will adopt and place into effect on or before completion of
the project a schedule of fees and charges and other available funds which will
provide adequate funds for proper operation, maintenance, and administration of
the system and the repayment of all principal and interest on the debt.
That the governing body of the Applicant agrees to include in the loan
agreement a provision authorizing the State Treasurer, upon failure of the City
of Southport to make scheduled repayment of the loan, to withhold from the City
of Southport any State funds that would otherwise be distributed to the local
government unit in an amount sufficient to pay all sums then due and payable to
the State as a repayment of the loan.
That the Applicant will provide for efficient operation and maintenance of the
project on completion of construction thereof.
That Kerry McDuffie, City Manager, the Authorized Official, and successors so
titled, is hereby authorized to execute and file an application on behalf of
the Applicant with the State of North Carolina for a (loan or grant) to aid in
the construction of the project described above.
That the Authorized Official, and successors so titled, is hereby authorized
and directed to furnish such information as the appropriate State agency may
request in connection with such application or the project: to make the
assurances as contained above; and to execute such other documents as may be
required in connection with the application.
That the Applicant has substantially complied or will substantially comply with
all Federal, State, and local laws, rules, regulations, and ordinances
applicable to the project and to Federal and State grants and loans pertaining
thereto.
Adopted this the 8th day of September, 2016 at Southport, North Carolina.
                     /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
12.   Presentation by Chad Kimes, NCDOT, 211 Widening
   Mr. Chad Kimes, deputy engineer for Highway Division 3, North Carolina
Department of Transportation (NCDOT) presented an alternate plan for the
widening of N.C. 211 to four lanes as it approaches the city. He stated that
DOT revised the plan at the request of the city to preserve 11 live oak trees
and to lessen the impact on affected businesses. Mr. Kimes stated that the
project would go out for bid in June 2018. He indicated that the revised plan
eliminated a turn lane at the Robert Ruark intersection and would lessen the
level of service expected with the original widening plan. Mr. Kimes stated
that the average daily traffic on N.C. 211 between Southport and Long Beach
Road is 35,000 – 50,000 vehicles and ranks at the top of the division, which
covers six counties.
   Alderman Powell voiced opposition to the plan and the vehicle count. He
emphasized alleviating truck traffic from Howe Street by rerouting an estimated
200 trucks a day to Rob Gandy Boulevard which was built as a truck route to ADM
and Capital Power. Alderman Powell pointed out that Southport’s traffic hold-up
was due to bridges at the Duke Energy Progress canal and Dutchman Creek and he
stressed DOT re-working the bridges. He stated his opinion that the four lanes
should be stopped before reaching the city limits.
   Alderman Adams, noting that the NC 211 widening would address the city’s
future needs, stated he appreciated DOT revising the plan to lessen the impact
on property owners and he felt it was in the city’s best interest to accept the
revised plan.
   Alderman Coring stated his appreciation for the state protecting the trees.
He added that there had been a dramatic drop in the number of wrecks that the
Southport Fire/Rescue Department had responded to since the new road opened at
NC 211 and Long Beach Road.
   Alderman Mosteller expressed concerns about the four lanes extending so far
into the city. She stated she would like to see the road be more pedestrian and
bike friendly.
   Mr. Kimes stated that DOT would need a resolution from the Board in support
of the revised plan or the project would proceed with the original design.
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Adams to adopt a resolution to
support the redesign as presented by NCDOT.
Ayes:   Aldermen Poole, Adams, Coring
Nays:   Aldermen Powell, Pukenas, Mosteller
Discussion
   At the request of Alderman Mosteller, City Attorney Isenberg explained that
the consideration before the Board was whether to endorse the original plan
that came further into town and eliminated eleven trees or to favor the
redesign. He pointed out that not voting for the redesign meant that the Board
was in favor of the original plan.
   Mayor Dove called for a show of hands.
   Ayes:   Aldermen Poole, Adams, Coring, Mosteller, Pukenas
   Nay:   Alderman Powell
   Motion Passed 5-1
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the North Carolina Department of Transportation (NCDOT) is proposing
to widen NC Highway 211 from Midway Road to 14th Street in Southport; and
WHEREAS, the widening would require the removal of 11 Live Oak Trees on the
entry corridor into Southport; and
WHEREAS, the Southport Board of Aldermen wish to preserve the Live Oak Trees;
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the Mayor and Southport Board of Aldermen
that the City of Southport is in support of the NCDOT redesign to stop the
four-lane project at Robert Ruark Drive.
Adopted this 8th day of September, 2016
                     /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor      
/s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
13.   East Bay Street Buildable Lot
   Building Inspector Strickland addressed the Board regarding 240 E. Bay
Street and the specific regulations within the Unified Development Ordinance
(UDO) which he must follow to determine if a structure can be built upon a
parcel. He stated that through review of documentation provided by multiple
owners of 240 E. Bay Street, i.e. a survey, he was able to determine that a
structure could be built on the property. Mr. Strickland noted that during his
20 year tenure with the city, he has been through five mayors, five city
managers, six public service directors, 17 aldermen, 12 planners, 18 board of
adjustment members and 46 planning board members. He addressed recent questions
about whether the UDO lacks vision, pointing out that the UDO “is the vision,”
has been continually worked on since its adoption in 2004 and has undergone 48
amendments. He added that the UDO ensured that consistency was maintained
throughout the city. Mr. Strickland addressed claims about transparency noting
that an agenda packet for the planning board is available every month at city
hall, the library and at the State Port Pilot. He encouraged people to get
involved by applying to serve on the planning board and board of adjustment.
Additionally, Mr. Strickland praised the professionalism of city staff and
their genuine care about the city.
14.   Consideration of Bond for Sidewalks in The Hammocks at Southport    
Subdivision
   City Attorney Isenberg explained that Malpass Engineering & Surveying, P.C.,
representing The Hammocks at Southport subdivision, had asked to post a letter
of credit for the installation of sidewalks throughout the subdivision in lieu
of putting in sidewalks prior to approval of the final plat in order to save
the sidewalks from getting torn up during construction. Copies of the agreement
were provided to the Board.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to approve the
agreement with submittal of a letter of credit. Unanimous vote; motion
carried.   
Closed Session – 7:45 p.m.
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Powell to go into Closed
Session pursuant to N.C.G.S. 143-318.11(a)(6) for discussion of personnel
issues. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   City Manager and City Clerk excused.
Return to Session – 8:27
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Powell to return to open
session. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Mayor Dove reported that the Board discussed the performance of a specific
employee.
Board Comments
   Alderman Mosteller asked if a meeting could be scheduled to discuss ongoing
projects, e.g. 201 E. Moore Street roof, Waterfront, Lord Street Gym.
Recess – 8:38 p.m.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to recess the meeting to
Wednesday, September 14, 5:30 p.m. at the Fire Department Emergency Operations
Center. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor                            
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
SEPTEMBER 14, 2016
RECESSED MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN   RECESSED MEETING MINUTES
1011 N. HOWE STREET SEPTEMBER 14, 2016
SOUTHPORT, N.C.      
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Karen Mosteller, Rick Pukenas,
            Jim Powell
ABSENT:         Aldermen Nelson Adams, Todd Coring            
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager   
         Michele Windham, City Clerk
   David Fox, Public Works Director
   Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
   Randy Jones, Tourism Director
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   Thomas Lloyd, Planner
A)   Call to Order – 5:30 p.m.
Mayor Dove called the meeting back to order at 5:30 p.m.
B)   Invocation
   At the request of the Mayor, Chief Drew gave the invocation.
AGENDA
   Fire Substation
   Chief Drew advised the Board of the Fire Department’s efforts to find a
suitable location for a substation in the vicinity of Long Beach Road. He
indicated that there is a possibility of property being donated for a
substation in the future; however, in the interim, a building at 4884 Long
Beach Road has been located. Chief Drew stated the property was formerly used
as a car wash and would need minimal modifications to utilize as a substation.
He provided a proposed 2-year lease with two (2) one-year extensions for $1,200
a month beginning October 1. He said the property owner would be responsible
for paying property taxes and the fire department would be responsible for
building liability insurance and maintenance of the lot. He reported that the
Fire Insurance Service Office (ISO) wants a substation within 1.5 miles of fire
headquarters. He stated that the fire department budget had $20,000 that had
been appropriated towards a substation and would cover the rental fee and
needed modifications. Chief Drew asked the Board for endorsement of the lease.
   Alderman Powell asked about the percentage of activity that the fire
department responds to in the area of the proposed substation. Chief Drew
stated his estimate is 50%.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Poole to accept the lease of
the building as a fire/rescue substation upon review of the lease by the city
attorney. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Lord Street Gym
   Mr. Donnie Joyner, chair of the Lord Street Gym Committee, updated the Board
on the status to raise $160,000 towards putting a roof on the historic
building. He stated that pledges were coming in and he would have an accurate
account by the next regular Board meeting. He expressed his confidence that the
goal would be met. Mr. Joyner indicated that several churches were involved in
collecting pledges and he was also soliciting pledges from members of the
Brunswick County Training School Alumni. He explained that promoting the
facility as a civic center would garner more interest, along with naming it in
tribute to Harry O’rie Gore, veteran, educator and prominent figure in
Southport history. Mr. Joyner stated it is planned to establish a 501c3
organization to continue the renovation project.
   201 E. Moore Street
   City Manager McDuffie reported that Engineer Phil Norris was working on the
design for the replacement of the roof on the 201 E. Moore Street building. He
indicated that staff would like feedback from the Board on the projected use of
the building. He stated that ElectriCities has offered to do a proposal on the
building for a public/private partnership which would require a long term
lease.
   With the absence of two aldermen and the importance of the project, Alderman
Poole and Powell recommended scheduling a workshop.
   The city manager was directed to obtain a timeline for the roofing aspect of
the project.
   Waterfront
   City Planner Lloyd reported that the Duke Energy Water Resource Fund Program
has grant awards ranging from $10,000 - $100,000 available which, if awarded to
the City could be used for engineer designed plans for the shoreline
stabilization portion of the waterfront project. He stated that Duke Energy is
accepting only 50 letters of intent, to be narrowed to 30 by December 1 for an
invitation to submit a full proposal. Mr. Lloyd indicated that he had also been
in contact with the U.S. Army Corps. of Engineers who responded they would make
a site visit and determine how they could assist the city on the project.
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Powell to proceed with the
letter of intent with Duke Energy and to work with the Corps. of Engineers.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.    
Recess – 6:22 p.m.
   Alderman Mosteller motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to recess the
meeting to Thursday, September 22, 2016, 5:30 p.m. in the Fire Department
Emergency Operation Center, 1011 N. Howe Street. Unanimous vote; motion
carried.  
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham,Clerk
SEPTEMBER 22, 2016
RECESSED MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN   RECESSED MEETING MINUTES
1011 N. HOWE STREET SEPTEMBER 22, 2016
SOUTHPORT, N.C.      
 
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Karen Mosteller, Rick Pukenas,
            Todd Coring, Jim Powell
ABSENT:         Alderman Nelson Adams            
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager   
         Michele Windham, City Clerk
Call to Order – 5:30 p.m.
Mayor Dove called the meeting back to order at 5:30 p.m.
AGENDA
   NCDOT – 211 Widening
   Mr. Chad Kimes, deputy engineer with NC Department of Transportation’s
Highway Division 3, presented a modified plan of the NC 211 widening. DOT
representatives accompanying Mr. Kimes displayed a map of the modified plan
which changed the shoulder feature to a curb and gutter section which lessens
the impact to businesses in the area. Mr. Kimes said that because of the curb
and gutter section it would allow for five foot wide sidewalks from Robert
Ruark Drive/NC 87 to the northern most entrance to Walmart. Mr. Kimes stated
that in order to include the sidewalks, DOT would require a cost share of 20%
from the city, estimated at $25,000. He stated that the project has an expected
bid date of June 2018 at which time DOT would need the cost share for the
sidewalks from the city.
   City Manager McDuffie inquired if sidewalks could be continued to 9th Street
to tie into existing sidewalks. Mr. Kimes responded that additional sidewalks
would be outside the project limits and the right of way had not been purchased
to continue the sidewalks beyond Robert Ruark Drive/NC 87.
   Alderman Powell inquired about where water would run for the curb and gutter
section. Acknowledging that the area had drainage issues, Mr. Kimes assured the
Board that improvements would be made.
   Responding to a question from the city manager, Mr. Kimes stated that
putting crosswalks with actuator buttons at the stoplights would be considered.
   Board consensus to submit a letter of commitment for the cost share
($25,000) for the sidewalks.
   Alderman Mosteller asked if there would be shoulders for bikes. Mr. Kimes
stated that the project will have four to five foot shoulders and he will be
asking other DOT units about bike lanes. He added that at a minimum, Share the
Road signs could be posted and at the most, symbols on the roadway. He noted
that there is a lot of engineering that goes into it and dependent on the
number of turn lanes.
   NCDOT – Long Beach Road
   Responding to a request from City Manager McDuffie as to the status of the
proposed interchange at NC 211 and the Long Beach Road, Mr. Kimes, discussed
the design for the project. Mr. Kimes cited a 20-year traffic forecast that
indicates as many as 50,000 vehicles daily will pass through the intersection.
He told the Board that an intersection with that volume triggers NCDOT to look
at an interchange. Mr. Kimes displayed the chosen design noting that 15 to 20
acres of high ground on the NW corner of the intersection would be needed. He
noted the addition to the current intersection of an off-ramp towards St. James
and a critical free-flow ramp to Oak Island.
   Mayor Dove remarked that the area of the planned overpass is within the city
limits and a proposed commercial development.
   Mr. Kimes stated that meetings had been held with Mr. Rick Rowe, Wakefield
Associates, developer of the Southport Crossing retail center and
Representative Frank Iler. Mr. Kimes indicated that meetings would continue
with Mr. Rowe who had also brought in an engineer to look at possibilities.
   Alderman Powell pointed out that 15 to 20 acres for an interchange would
seriously impact the proposed commercial development. He questioned if the
interchange could be located on the SE corner of the intersection with a
potential relocation of businesses in the Live Oak Plaza. Mr. Kimes responded
that the SE corner was on the wrong side of the road, DOT was trying to stay
away from existing businesses, construction would be less disruptive to traffic
with the chosen location and it was a cheaper land wise option. Alderman
Powell, noting the design of the diamond interchange in Leland, encouraged
rethinking the design for another way to make it work.
   City Manager McDuffie asked about a possible “flower” structure with an
elevated road which would require less land, equating to a savings on the
purchase of right of way. Mr. Kimes stated that the flower structure would
present constructability issues along with being more expensive.
   Alderman Coring asked if enough time had passed to judge the impact of the
recently completed Long Beach Road extension. He expressed concern about the
significant impact the interchange will have on the commercial development and
Southport and confusion about the research showing 50,000 cars daily. He
questioned where support for the project came from and pointed out that the
announcement about the interchange was made at a St. James meeting. Mr. Kimes
explained that funding became available, a local Council of Mayors supported
the project and it was purely a coincidence that the announcement was made at
St. James.
   Responding to a query from City Manager McDuffie, Mr. Kimes, noting that the
design had been chosen just the day before, September 21, and he indicated that
the Division design team had approved the interchange design based on impacts,
traffic count projections and benefits vs. cost.
   Alderman Powell emphasized the need for truck route signs on NC 211 to
reroute trucks across the Long Beach Road Extension to NC 87 and Rob Gandy
Boulevard. It was noted that the County GIS mapping needed to be updated. Mr.
Kimes stated that a member of his team would follow up on Alderman Powell’s
request.   
   Other
   At the request of the City Manager, Mr. Kimes updated the Board on drainage
issues in the 1100 block of E. Moore Street and a dip in the 300 block of Howe
Street.
   Mayor Dove and the City Manager asked about the process for adding
crosswalks at Howe and West Streets and Moore and Davis Streets. Ms. Leonard
stated that a municipality submits a request to DOT and a site visit is made.
She indicated that the cost is absorbed by the municipality and each crosswalk
is typically $2,500 each. She said that she would provide an estimate for the
locations.
   Board consensus to pursue crosswalks at Howe and West Streets and Moore and
Davis Streets.
   City Manager McDuffie announced that Brunswick Electric Membership Corp.
(BEMC) accidentally notified 483 city electric customers that they were invited
to the upcoming BEMC membership meeting. He pointed out that city electric
customers are not considered members per the city’s agreement with BEMC. BEMC
was contacting each customer.
   City Manager McDuffie announced that he and Public Works Director David Fox
are scheduled to meet in Raleigh with the NC Division of Water Quality (DWQ)
regarding a loan for construction of a wastewater treatment plant.
   City Manager McDuffie reported that the MAPS Group had completed interviews
of all city employees. He provided a listing of communities the Maps Group will
use to make comparisons which included Leland and Brunswick County. He pointed
out that Southport has lost employees to both Leland and Brunswick County.
   Mayor Dove announced that the 7th Annual Wooden Boat Show would be held
Saturday, September 24th.
   Mayor Dove announced that the Mt. Carmel AME Church would be celebrating 126
years of service on Sunday, September 25, 4:00 p.m.
   Mayor Dove thanked Beautification Committee chair Shirley Snyder for the
committee’s continued efforts and recent clean-up at the Waterfront.
   Alderman Poole thanked the Board for voting for the new substation location.
She indicated that the Emergency Services Committee had endorsed it as well.
She noted that the combined fire/rescue operations were working well together
as one entity.   
Recess – 6:30 p.m.
   Alderman Mosteller motioned, second by Alderman Coring to recess the meeting
to Wednesday, September 28, 2016, 5:30 p.m. in the Fire Department EOC, 1011 N.
Howe Street. Unanimous vote; motion carried.  
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
SEPTEMBER 28, 2016
RECESSED MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN   RECESSED MEETING MINUTES
1011 N. HOWE STREET SEPTEMBER 28, 2016
SOUTHPORT, N.C.      
 
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Karen Mosteller, Rick Pukenas,
            Todd Coring, Nelson Adams, Jim Powell
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
         Michele Windham, City Clerk
         David Fox, Public Works Director
         Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
         Gary Smith, Police Chief
         Charles Drew, Fire Chief
A)   Call to Order – 5:30 p.m.
Mayor Dove called the meeting back to order at 5:30 p.m.
Chief Drew gave the invocation.
AGENDA
1.   Powell Bill Priorities
   City Manager McDuffie advised the Board that Powell Bill funds projected to
be received is $108,000. The Board reviewed staff recommended Powell Bill
projects:
   Project               Determination   
   Reflective Signs             Mandated by the Federal Government
   Thermal stripping machine      FY 2016-2017 budget consideration
   Materials for stripping machine
Drainage Projects along Bay Street      Proceed
11th Street Gravel            Proceed
Yaupon Avenue Extension gravel      Proceed
Paving Bay Street         FY 2016-2017 budget consideration       
S. Davis Street drainage and curb      Proceed
Lower entrance to Community Building   Contact NCDOT about installation of a
sloped ramp
Storm drainage at The Landing      Waiting on NCDOT
Atlantic Street parking lot         Reconsider after drawing submitted
Sidewalk connections at Moore & Caswell   Proceed
Sidewalk 9th Street to 11th Street      Apply for TIP funding
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Poole to appropriate $25,000
for the city’s portion of sidewalk installation in the Department of
Transportation N.C. 211 widening project (sidewalk from Go Gas to farthest
north entrance into Walmart). Unanimous vote; motion carried.
2.   Walmart Access
   City Manager McDuffie reported that he had been in contact with Walmart and
is awaiting work from the Walmart Engineering Division as to what extent
Walmart will participate in developing an access to the store via access from
N. Caswell Avenue and Maple Leaf Drive.
3.   Senior Center/Caswell Avenue Access
   Public Works Director Fox stated that the Caswell Avenue Access project cost
came in under the original estimate and is projected to be started in early
October.
4.   Tree Lights in Downtown
   City Manager McDuffie reported that the wiring for the tree lights in the
central business district needs to be replaced. He stated that he had received
a quote from Brunswick Electric Membership Corp. (BEMC) to do the rewiring for
$5,000 with each section to be rebuilt one at a time. He said the wiring would
remain overhead and to put the wiring underground would cost $100,000. Board
consensus to replace the wiring with overhead connections.
5.   Grant for Garrison from NC Commerce
   Tourism Director Jones stated he had received a grant in the amount of
$94,000 to start the 4- year project to preserve the bricks on Ft. Johnston. He
pointed out that the original mortar has to be removed. He indicated that he
would be doing fund raising to pay for the project and he would have additional
information and a plan of action by the Board’s November regular meeting.
6.   Purchase Orders
   City Manager McDuffie announced that implementation of electronic purchase
orders would begin the week of October 18 for the staff of City Hall. He
indicated that the process would be slowly rolled out to other departments. He
explained that greater efficiencies will be realized with the process and
departments will be able to see in real time their budget expenditures and
funds availability.
7.   Boat Dock
   In the absence of the Parks & Recreation Director, City Manager McDuffie
reported that a grant application had been submitted. He pointed out that the
number of transient boat slips had been increased to strengthen the likelihood
of receiving the grant. He added that the boat slip rental agreement had been
revised to reflect responsibility of maintenance of the finger slips by the
lessee.
8.   VC3
   City Manager McDuffie reported that staff is looking at options for IT
services in order to assure secure back up, redundancy, disaster recovery and
better reliability. He stated that a proposal is being obtained from VC3.
9.   ATMC and AT&T Pole Attachment Agreement
   City Manager McDuffie advised the Board that ATMC has asked to utilize two
(2) electric poles to provide fiber optic services to businesses on N. Howe
Street and Robert Ruark Drive. He asked that staff be authorized to sign a one-
year lease while details of a long term Pole Attachment Agreement can be
reached. There was no objection from the Board.
10.   Street Lighting Plan
   City Manager McDuffie stated that staff is working on a Street Lighting Plan
with definitions/categories for specific areas and the type of lighting needed
in each area. He added that establishing a plan will benefit the planning of
the future undergrounding of the electric utility.
11.   Parking at Community Building
   City Manager McDuffie referenced a drawing provided by the Parks &
Recreation Director depicting an area at the Community Building to be
designated parking and no parking. He stated that the Police Chief, Fire Chief,
Public Works Director, Tourism Director and Parks and Recreation Director had
met to determine the layout. City manager McDuffie indicated that paint will be
applied to the surface to denote the permitted and prohibited parking.
12.   Use of 1029 Building
   City Manager McDuffie reported that the N.C. Department of Motor Vehicles
(DMV) would no longer be using an RV to provide service in Southport. He stated
that DMV is utilizing a mobile desk system beginning in October and will
temporarily operate Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday of the first week of the
month at Fire Headquarters.
   City Manager McDuffie pointed out that Wells Fargo will be vacating the
second floor of City Hall and he suggested providing DMV permanent space on the
first floor, move Administration and Inspections to the second floor and
reconfigure Finance to allow for better use. He indicated that $50,000 remained
in the budget from a land purchase allocation and could be used to do
improvements needed to move offices and to purchase furniture.
   Alderman Coring, noting that the Police Department was originally planned to
be strategically located in the 1029 building, asked to look at the original
floor plan. He stated his opinion that the current police station at 113 W.
Moore Street would be a better location for CMV and an after-hours dispatch.
   Aldermen Adams and Powell agreed with Alderman Coring with Alderman Adams
recalling a building committee had been in place when the building was
purchased and he suggested a workshop.
   Aldermen Coring and Powell expressed concerns about DMV using fire
headquarters and interfering with emergency response personnel.
   City Manager McDuffie explained the connectivity difficulty of the CMF’s
equipment at the Nash Street substation. Board consensus to work towards
boosting the signal at the substation and, if unable, to relocate DMV to the
Parks and Recreation Department building on Fodale Avenue, and to schedule a
workshop at their October meeting to discuss options for the 1029 building.
13.   Fuel Needs
   The Board discussed fuel options such as providing generators to gas
stations with Southport electric service in order to provide fuel for the city
and citizens during an electrical outage. City Manager McDuffie pointed out
that Load Management would pay for the cost of generators. Advantage and
disadvantages of the city having its own fuel tanks was discussed. Alderman
Adams endorsed the city having fuel tanks and being independent. He cautioned
against providing generators to service stations. Mayor Dove pointed out that
the city removed the fuel tanks because they were leaking and were no longer
permitted underground.
Break – 6:53 p.m.
14.   Mosquito Spraying
   City Manager McDuffie advised that mosquito spraying will be performed in
the evenings in addition to the morning spraying.
15.   Credit Card Processing for Utility Bills
   City Manager McDuffie updated the Board on the processing of credit card
payments through provided CivicPay. He stated credit cards would be interacting
with the city’s software in real time which would save approximately 10 hours
of employee time a month for doing manual entry. City Manager McDuffie
discussed staff’s efforts to encourage the no cost ACH transfers to reduce the
$2.40 per transaction fee for credit card payments. He stated 580 ACH transfers
are currently in place. He added that the city does not accept American Express
or Discover. He stated that the city is currently paying $21,000 a year in
credit card bills or 1% of everyone’s utility bill. He reported that a voice
interactive phone service will also be implemented for credit card payments.
16.   Rope at Garrison
   Tourism Director Jones reported that staff, Beautification Committee,
Forestry Committee, Garden Club, Downtown Southport Inc. (DSI) and the
Historical Society were putting together standards and practices using
information contained in city adopted plans for the Board to review. He
indicated that Joe Medlin is working with the Parks and Recreation Director for
remaking the tops on the poles holding the rope at the Garrison.
17.   AMI
   City Manager McDuffie reported that all the new water meters are installed.
He stated he would be sending Board members information to interface with their
meters. He said customers, especially absentee homeowners, would benefit from
the new system that allows real time monitoring of water usage.
18.   Schedule Workshop for 201 Building
   City Manager McDuffie reported that it is expected that the proposals will
go out on the roofing project of the 201 building at the end of October with a
potential contract award date in December. He stated that construction time is
anticipated to be 90 days. Board consensus to schedule a workshop when the
roofing project is closer to completion.
19.   Other
   Alderman Poole requested an update on the status of the sale of property on
9th street (abandoned well site) and in Boiling Spring Lakes at the Board’s
October meeting.
   Mayor Dove announced that the annual Captain Charlies Kids’ Fishing
Tournament would be held Saturday, October 1, 9:00 – 12:00.
   City Manager McDuffie announced that Piedmont gas has run a gas line to the
City Hall generator. He stated that the tie in to the gas main trunk line and
connection to the generator should be made within a week.
   Tourism Director Jones announced that the Beautification Committee would
have a clean-up on Saturday, October 1.          
Recess – 7:20 p.m.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to adjourn the meeting.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.  
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor                   
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
OCTOBER 13, 2016
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
5211 FLANK COURT  OCTOBER 13, 2016
SOUTHPORT, N.C.    
 
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Karen Mosteller, Rick Pukenas,
            Jim Powell, Todd Coring
ABSENT:         Alderman Nelson Adams
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
            Michele Windham, City Clerk
            Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
            Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
            Randy Jones, Tourism Director
            Mike Simmons, Police Lieutenant
            B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Dove called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
   Alderman Mosteller thanked the Rivermist HOA for hosting the Board’s
meeting. She extended thoughts and prayers to those communities reeling from
the effects of Hurricane Matthew. She recognized and expressed gratitude to
staff members for the planning and response during the storm.
    At the request of Alderman Mosteller, the Mayor gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Mosteller led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Public Comment
   On behalf of the Rivermist community and Board of Directors, Mr. Tom
Lombardi, 5021 Oarlock Court, welcomed the Board of Aldermen.
   Ms. Linda Baker, 4359 Frying Pan Road, noting that an appointment to the
airport commission was on the Board of Aldermen’s agenda, asked about the City
of Southport’s interest in the Cape Fear Regional Jetport and if the City had
any input on expansion of the runway. Ms. Baker was advised that Brunswick
County has a majority control over the airport and that no expansion is
planned.
E)   Approval of Agenda
   Mayor Dove requested the following amendment to the Agenda:
   1.   Consideration of an easement exchange with Dosher Memorial Hospital as
Agenda Item #9.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Poole to approve the agenda as
amended.  Unanimous vote; motion carried.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Dove stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
F)   Announcements
   City Manager McDuffie announced that vegetative debris from the hurricane
would be picked up beginning October 21. He asked that debris be placed next to
the road away from water meters, phone and electric boxes.
   City Manager McDuffie announced that a 48” water main, that provides water
to the Brunswick County NW Water Treatment Plant, had ruptured and the County
is under a MANDATORY water conservation order.
   City Manager McDuffie stated that staff is doing assessments of damage from
the hurricane to city owned property. He pointed out that Bay Street between
Atlantic Avenue and Davis Street is closed due to erosion and the city pier and
dock have sustained damage and are also closed.
   Mayor Dove thanked all participants in recent events: Peace Day, Wooden Boat
Show, King Mackerel Tournament, and Military Appreciation.
   Mayor Dove announced that a former city employee, Mr. Howard Lee, had
passed.
   Mayor Dove congratulated Dr. Joe Pat Hatem on his promotion to Chief of
Emergency Services at Dosher Memorial Hospital.
   Mr. Paul Fisher announced that the annual Warrior Ride would be held on
Wednesday, October 19, 10:00 a.m. with 45 riders expected.
   Mayor Dove stated he had received many commendations, letters and calls
about heroic deeds performed by the Fire Department, Police Department and
Public Works Department during Hurricane Matthew. He expressed gratitude to
all.
G)   Special Recognition
– Cecil Rhodes
   Mayor Dove read the Resolution Honoring Cecil Rhodes On His Retirement into
the record. He presented the Resolution to Mr. Rhodes.
RESOLUTION
HONORING CECIL RHODES
ON HIS RETIREMENT
WHEREAS, Cecil Rhodes started his employment with ElectriCities in February
1987; and
WHEREAS, since joining ElectriCities, Mr. Rhodes has played many important
roles in making public power in North Carolina a monumental success; and
WHEREAS, Mr. Rhodes has set an example of dedication to principle which has
been an inspiration to his fellow employees; and
WHEREAS, Mr. Rhodes has served as North Carolina Eastern Municipal Power Agency
Vice President for the past ten years; and
WHEREAS, Mr. Rhodes’ leadership has spanned from holding the position of
Supervisor of Load Management Operations, Manager of Power Operations, NCEMPA
Division Director and Vice President of NCEMPA; and
WHEREAS, his years of service have been marked by exemplary dedication to the
best interests of our community; and
WHEREAS, he was instrumental in establishing the Load Management Program for
the City of Southport; and
WHEREAS, Mr. Rhodes assisted city staff with refurbishing the EMS Substation to
the useful building that it is now; and
WHEREAS, he helped the City of Southport secure a contract with Brunswick
Electric Membership Corporation that will not only benefit the City but also
the residents of Southport; and
WHEREAS, Mr. Rhodes has aided the City of Southport in a number of projects
over the years, his knowledge has been immeasurable for the success of numerous
endeavors; and
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Mayor and the Board of Aldermen wish to
express their gratitude for all the assistance and friendship Mr. Cecil Rhodes
has shown the City of Southport over his 30 year working career with
ElectriCities.
Adopted this 13th day of October 2016.
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Gayle A. Jones, Deputy Clerk
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Powell to adopt the Resolution
Honoring Cecil Rhodes. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to approve the Consent
Agenda. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   1.   Minutes of September 8, 2016 Regular Meeting – approved
      Minutes of September 14, 2016 Recessed Meeting – approved
      Minutes of September 22, 2016 Recessed Meeting – approved
      Minutes of September 28, 2016 Recessed Meeting – approved
   2.   Resolution Proclaiming October 9-5 Fire Prevention Week – approved
   3.   NCDOT Purchase Contract for 0.05 acre of property – approved
      (Contract on file in the Clerk’s office)
   4.   Appointment to Brunswick County Airport Commission – approved
Resolution
Proclaiming October 9 - 15, 2016
Fire Prevention Week
WHEREAS, the Southport Fire Department is committed to ensuring the safety and
security of all those living in and visiting our Fire District; and
WHEREAS, fire is a serious public safety concern both locally and nationally,
and homes are the locations where people are at the greatest risk of fire; and
WHEREAS, the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) has documented through
its research a significant increase in home fires, and due to this fact, it is
important that everyone know two ways out of your home in case of a fire; and
WHEREAS, the Firefighters of the Southport Fire Department are dedicated to
reducing the occurrence of residential and commercial structural fires and fire
related injuries through prevention and protection education; and
WHEREAS, the residents of the Southport Fire District are responsive to public
education measures and are able to take personal steps to increase their safety
from fire; and
WHEREAS, being prepared in the event of a home fire will have a positive effect
on the home fire problem; and
WHEREAS, each home fire that is prevented in the Southport Fire District is an
opportunity to prevent painful injury and costly property damage; and
WHEREAS, the 2016 Fire Prevention Week theme, Don’t Wait Check the Date –
Replace Smoke Alarms every 10 years, effectively serves to remind us all of the
simple actions we can take to stay safer from fire every day.
THEREFORE, I Jerry V. Dove, Mayor of the City of Southport do hereby proclaim
October 9-15, 2016 as Fire Prevention Week throughout this City, and I urge all
the citizens of Southport to heed the important safety messages from the
Southport Fire Prevention Team, and the Office of the City Fire Marshal and to
support the many public safety activities and efforts of the Southport Fire
Department.
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
AGENDA
   5.   Parks & Recreation Advisory Board Atlantic Avenue & Bay Street
Recommendation
   Referencing the drawing provided in the Board’s agenda, Alderman Coring
explained the proposed five (5) parking space design at the Atlantic Avenue and
Bay Street park. He suggested that consideration of additional aspects of the
park design be deferred to a workshop.
   Alderman Mosteller stated her support for the parking configuration and said
the Parks & Recreation Advisory Board recommended using pervious pavers
consistent with pavers used at Kingsley Park.
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Poole to establish parking
spaces at the Atlantic Avenue and Bay Street Park as recommended by the Parks &
Recreation Advisory Board. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   6.   Rivermist Subdivision Request for Traffic Control Change
   Police Lieutenant Mike Simmons addressed the Board. He stated that Chief
Smith had endorsed the request from the Rivermist Community Manager to reduce
the speed limit to 15 mph on Norseman Loop and to make the street one-way.
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Poole to adopt the traffic
control change on Norseman Loop as recommended by Chief Smith. Unanimous vote;
motion carried.
   7.   Appointments to Board of Adjustment
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Coring to recuse Alderman
Pukenas. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to accept the
application of Lisa Fosbury as an alternate city member for the Board of
Adjustment and to recommend David T. Gale to the Brunswick County Board of
Commissioners for an alternate extra territorial jurisdiction (ETJ) member of
the Board of Adjustment. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   8.   Schedule a Workshop for the 1029 Building
   Deferred to recessed session.
   9.   Easement Exchange with Dosher Hospital
   Attorney Isenberg explained that surveys have shown that the City’s 30 foot
right of way easement on Burrington Avenue does not match the physical location
of the road. He stated that Dosher Memorial Hospital owns the property that the
road is actually on and a tentative agreement between the City and Dosher
Memorial Hospital has been reached to correct the matter.
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Powell to accept the right of
way exchange with Dosher Memorial Hospital upon approve of the city attorney
and to authorize the Mayor to sign the agreement. Unanimous vote; motion
carried.
Staff Reports
   City Manager McDuffie announced that tree trimming will be taking place. He
stated that trees will be trimmed to a height of 14 feet to allow for emergency
vehicle access.
Board Comments
   Alderman Coring pointed out that October 9 – 15 is Fire Prevention Week and
that the Fire Department is holding proactive programs in schools, day cares,
and senior care homes. He encouraged everyone to check the batteries in their
home’s smoke detectors. He pointed out that the Fire Department has smoke
alarms available and would install them.
Recess – 6:52 p.m.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to recess the meeting
to Monday, October 17, 2016, 5:30 p.m. in the Fire Department Emergency
Operation Center, 1011 N. Howe Street. Unanimous vote; motion carried.  
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham,Clerk
OCTOBER 17, 2016
RECESSED MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN   RECESSED MEETING MINUTES
1011 N. HOWE STREET OCTOBER 17, 2016
SOUTHPORT, N.C.      
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Karen Mosteller, Rick Pukenas,
            Jim Powell, Nelson Adams, Todd Coring
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
            Michele Windham, City Clerk\
A)   Call to Order – 5:30 p.m.
Mayor Dove called the meeting back to order at 5:30 p.m.
AGENDA
   1029 N. Howe Street
   Noting that the request to review the original floor plan for the 1029 N.
Howe Street building had been brought up in a previous Board workshop, City
Manager McDuffie stated his concerns about implementing the layout after Wells
Fargo vacates the second floor at the end of the year. He pointed out that in
three (3) years the city’s population had grown from 2,800 to 3,304 and, as
evidenced by the current construction projects, population will continue to
grow resulting in an increase of city staff. He noted that the original plan
did not allow for growth or expansion. Additionally, he expressed concerns
about locating the utility billing collections function on the second floor.
   Alderman Adams, member of the original building committee for the 1029
building, stated his opinion that city operations are currently flowing well
and it would not be appropriate to service the general public from the second
floor. He stated his position that it was not the proper time to take on
another project in the midst of current projects. He suggested consideration of
utilizing the second floor at budget time.
   Board members concurred that the city is involved in many costly projects in
addition to recent property damage from Hurricane Matthew.
   Alderman Pukenas stated his opinion that relocating the Finance Department
to the second floor would be a disadvantage for the elderly.
   Agreeing with Alderman Adams, Alderman Powell emphasized determining what
direction to take on the 201 E. Moore Street building and to move slowly on
relocating city departments to the second floor of the 1029 N. Howe Street
building.
   Alderman Coring agreed that moving the Finance Department to the second
floor would not be in the best interest of customers. He suggested relocating
the Building Inspections & Planning Department to the second floor in order to
keep Finance on the first floor and to move the Police Department to the
building. He discussed the time and effort that went into developing the floor
plan at the time of purchase of the building.
   Alderman Mosteller agreed with all comments and favored taking time to
determine the best use of the second floor.
   Mayor Dove concurred with all that the Finance Department not be relocated
to the second floor. He stated his opinion that he prefers the Police
Department remain in downtown, he shared comments he has heard from citizens
supporting the Police Department being downtown and he speculated about adding
on to the building. He talked about the possibility of having a Fire/Rescue/
Police substation in the Long Beach Road area and stated his opinion that at
some point the city would need to be divided into precincts.
   Alderman Powell stated he had heard positive remarks from the neighbors of
the Moore Street Police Department.
   City Manager McDuffie pointed out that the W. Moore Street location of the
Police Department was intended to be a temporary location.
   City Manager McDuffie stated that after the second floor of 1029 is vacated,
he would bring information to the Board about what would be needed for a
conference room and an office for the Mayor.
   Alderman Poole pointed out that the former jail on Rhett Street is being
used for storage. She emphasized relocation of the stored items and listing the
property for sale and using the proceeds for pending projects.
   Mayor Dove asked about the status of the lot in Boiling Spring Lakes. City
Manager McDuffie responded that he planned to accept proposals from local real
estate agents for listing that lot and the 9th Street property.
   201 E. Moore Street
   Responding to a query by Alderman Pukenas, City Manager McDuffie reported
that Norris & Tunstall Consulting Engineers are nearing completion of the plans
and specifications for the roof replacement of 201 E. Moore Street. He stated
that bids would be let by December and construction should be completed by
March.
   Alderman Adams stated he had recently been in the 201 E. Moore Street
building and noticed a large amount of stored files. Remarking that the records
pose a fire hazard, he emphasized disposing of the records. City Manager
McDuffie pointed out that due to a recent public records request, records
dating back 10 years must be retained.
   Stating that if a decision is made not to move the Police Department to the
1029 building, Alderman Coring advocated moving the Police Department back into
the 201 E. Moore Street building after it is renovated.
   Alderman Mosteller talked about the public meeting regarding the old City
Hall and her perception that a task force would be established to develop
criteria for proposals.
   Alderman Adams emphasized the Board’s responsibility to make the tough
decisions.
   Mayor Dove, stating he had met with potential businesses considering the
building, and he remarked that the building is not suitable for retail sales.
   Storm Damage
   City Manager McDuffie reported that estimates for repair to damages at the
waterfront ranged from $200,000 - $300,000. He stated that FEMA had declared
disaster category A (storm debris removal) and category B (storm preplanning)
for disaster assistance. He said it is expected that FEMA will declare
additional categories which would include the waterfront. He indicated that
shoreline stabilization is moving forward on the damage to E. Bay Street, an
engineer assessment of the city pier is being obtained and to date, one quote
has been received for repairs of the waterfront bulkhead and the city boat
dock.
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Poole to contact the district
office of the Coast Guard to request declaration of a lower speed for boat
traffic on the river in view of hurricane damage to the bulkhead. Unanimous
vote; motion carried.
Board Comments
   Mayor Dove announced that the annual Warrior Ride would be held Wednesday,
October 19, 10:00 a.m. at the Waterfront.
Adjourn – 6:10 p.m.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to adjourn the meeting.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.  
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
NOVEMBER 10, 2016
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING NOVEMBER 10, 2016
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Karen Mosteller, Jim Powell,
            Todd Coring, Rick Pukenas, Nelson Adams
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
   Gary Smith, Police Chief
   David Fox, Public Works Director
   Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
   Randy Jones, Tourism Director
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   Thomas Lloyd, Planner
   Brannon Gray, Code Enforcement Officer
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Dove called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Coring welcomed everyone and gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Coring led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Public Comment
   Mr. Tommy Harrelson, 202 W. Bay Street, a former Waterfront Steering
Committee member, addressed the Board. He questioned the status of the
waterfront project and he emphasized implementation of the approved plan. He
underscored the vulnerability of the waterfront as evidenced by the damage
caused by Hurricane Matthew. Mr. Harrelson was joined by committee members Bill
Duke, Paul Swenson, and Jim Sutherland.
   Ms. Linda Baker, 4359 Frying Pan Road, expressed her opinion about the North
Carolina Department of Transportation (NCDOT) widening of Howe Street and the
proposed interchange at NC 211 and Long Beach Road Extension.
   Mr. Jim McKee, Site Manager, Brunswick Town State Historic Site, brought to
the attention of the Board an option for stabilizing the city’s waterfront via
an offshore revetment approach similar to that being undertaken by Brunswick
Town. He emphasized that the revetment promotes a living shoreline. He offered
to make the Brunswick Town plans available to the city.
E)   Approval of Agenda
   Mayor Dove requested:   Consent Agenda Item 3, Resolution in Opposition of
NCDOT
               Interchange at NC 211 and Long Beach Road Extension, be
               moved to the regular agenda.
               Add Agenda Item 6. Employee Christmas Bonus
               Add Agenda Item 7. Tree Trimming
    Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to approve the agenda
as amended.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Dove stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
F)   Announcements
   Mayor Dove read a letter of appreciation from Mr. Cecil Rhodes who was
recently honored by the Board.
   Mayor Dove announced that Veteran’s Day would be observed Friday, November
11. He thanked Veterans past and present. He stated that recognition would be
held at the Southport VFW with Colonel Parker as the guest speaker.
   Mayor Dove thanked the Beautification Committee for their recent work at the
Jaycees Building and the E. Moore Street roundabout.
   Mayor Dove announced that the Christmas tree lighting would be held
Saturday, December 3, 5:30 p.m. in Franklin Square Park.
   Mayor Dove announced that Shaw Day would be celebrated at the Missionary
Baptist Church on Sunday, November 13, 11:30 a.m.
   Alderman Coring announced that the Christmas Parade would be held Friday,
December 9.
   Alderman Poole announced that the training sessions for the Planning Board
and Board of Adjustment had completed. She praised the quality of the sessions
and the City Planner and Building Inspector for their presentation. She stated
that the sessions were well attended and attendees were very involved.
   Alderman Mosteller announced that the South Brunswick High School Choir
would be performing during the Christmas tree lighting, December 3, 5:30 – 7:00
p.m. in Franklin Square Park.
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Powell to approve the consent
agenda. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   1.   Minutes for October 13, 2016 Regular Meeting– approved
       Minutes for October 17, 2016 Recessed Meeting - approved
   2.   Resolution; Designation of Applicant’s Agent for FEMA Disaster Relief –
approved
      (copy on file in the clerk’s office)
AGENDA
   3.   Resolution in Opposition of NCDOT Interchange at NC 211 and Long Beach
Road    Extension
Alderman Coring read into the record the Resolution in Opposition of NCDOT
Interchange at NC 211 and Long Beach Road Extension.
[Image]
RESOLUTION IN OPPOSITION OF NCDOT PROPOSED INTERCHANGE AT NC 211 AND LONG BEACH
ROAD EXTENSION
WHEREAS, On September 22, 2016, the North Carolina Department of
Transportation, Division 3, presented to the Southport Board of Aldermen a
proposal for planned improvements at the NC 211 and Long Beach Road Extension;
and
WHEREAS, the majority of the area for the proposed interchange will fall within
property voluntarily annexed into the City of Southport September, 2014; and
WHEREAS, the Aldermen of the City of Southport recognize that Southport’s
economic survival depends on continued development; and
WHEREAS, the Aldermen believe that the plan presented September 22, 2016 is not
the best plan for the economic prosperity and transportation needs of the City
of Southport
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, the Aldermen of the City of Southport are in
opposition to the proposed design of the interchange at NC 211 and Long Beach
Road Extension.
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to adopt the Resolution.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   4.   Consideration of Painting Franklin Square Gallery
   City Manager McDuffie explained that the Associated Artists of Southport had
requested the exterior of Franklin Square Gallery be painted during the winter
closing of the gallery, December 18 through February 16. He said that the
building was in need of repairs to the wood siding and painting but funds had
not been allocated in the current year’s budget. He stated an estimate of
$25,000 had been obtained and funds would have to be used from fund balance to
proceed with the project. He pointed out that the lease of the building would
expire the end of December, 2017 and the lease stipulated that the city was
responsible for upkeep of the exterior of the building.
   Alderman Adams suggested consideration of the project during budget review.
   Alderman Mosteller asked about the condition of the wood. Public Works
Director Fox responded that the Facilities Maintenance Coordinator had spoken
to contractors and the wood damage repair would not entail total replacement.
   Board consensus to evaluate the project during budget consideration.
   City Manager McDuffie to look into the urgency of repairs and report back to
the Board if warranted.
   5.   Code Enforcement Update
   Officer Brannon Gray updated the Board on the status of 202 River Drive. He
reported that owner, Dr. Matthew Block, while experiencing medical problems and
contractor issues, had made progress towards securing the structure and
cleaning up the grounds. Officer Gray stated that a contractor from Wilmington,
familiar with historical restoration, had been hired and issuance of a building
permit was imminent.
   6.   Employee Christmas Bonus
   Stating she had received compliments about city employees and especially all
the hard work performed during Hurricane Matthew, Alderman Poole motioned,
second by Alderman Pukenas to give full-time employees a $300 net Christmas
bonus and part-time employees a $200 net Christmas bonus. Unanimous vote;
motion carried.
   City Manager McDuffie, on behalf of city staff, thanked the Board.
   7.   Tree Trimming
   City Manager McDuffie reported that the Fire Department had brought it to
his attention that tree limbs throughout the city are below the 14 ft. required
height above the street surface to allow for safe passage of trucks and
emergency vehicles. He stated that the Forestry Committee had been apprised of
the situation, the trimming was advertised in the local newspaper and a
contractor with decades of experience was scheduled to begin trimming November
14 at a cost of $5,400 for four (4) days’ work. He added that Alderman
Mosteller had requested use of a certified arborist. City Manager McDuffie
requested direction from the Board.
   Alderman Adams questioned if the contractor had been used before and if any
problems had been experienced with the company. City Manager McDuffie replied
that the contractor had been used for tree trimming by the city on several
occasions and no problems had occurred.
   Responding to Alderman Adams query, City Manager McDuffie stated that the
last arborist used by the City, charged $2,800 a day for a full crew.
   Aldermen Adams and Poole cautioned against incurring the additional expense
for an arborist.
   Alderman Mosteller, referring to a map depicting the area in which trimming
needs to be done, pointed out that some of the trimming would be severe cutting
of leader branches which could jeopardize the health of the tree if incorrectly
cut. She spoke about the monetary value of the trees and stressed erroring on
the side of caution.
   Alderman Coring noted that money had been budgeted for an arborist and the
city would not be doing its due diligence to protect the trees if an arborist
was not consulted. He suggested having an arborist view the trees and provide a
recommendation.
   Alderman Pukenas questioned if, in the future, an arborist could be under
contract to the city. City Manager McDuffie stated an arborist could be put on
retainer. Additionally, he stated there is a possibility that someone on staff
could be trained as a certified arborist.
   There was no objection from the Board for the City Manager to retain a
certified arborist to ride the tree trimming route with the Public Works
Director and for the arborist to provide the Director with guidance and
information on where and how to trim the trees.   
   8.   Closed Session pursuant to N.C.G.S. 143-318.11(a)(6) for consideration
of a personnel matter.
Closed Session – 6:53 p.m.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to go into Closed
Session pursuant to N.C.G.S. 143-318.11(a)(6) for consideration of a personnel
matter. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Out of Closed Session – 7:15 p.m.
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to come out of Closed
Session. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Board Comments
   All Board members expressed appreciation for the post hurricane clean-up
efforts performed by city staff.
   City Manager McDuffie reported that staff would be meeting with the N.C.
Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR) regarding repairs to the
waterfront.
   City Manager McDuffie reported that funds originally budgeted for contracted
work on lift station by-pass pumps will be allocated to replace a truck in the
water and sewer department. The needed work on the by-pass pumps will be
performed in house.
Adjourn – 7:26 p.m.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Poole to adjourn the meeting.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.  
                        _______________________
                         Mayor
Attest: ____________________
      Clerk
DECEMBER 8, 2016
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING DECEMBER 8, 2016
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Karen Mosteller, Jim Powell,
            Todd Coring, Rick Pukenas, Nelson Adams
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney   
   Gary Smith, Police Chief
   David Fox, Public Works Director
   Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
   Randy Jones, Tourism Director
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   Thomas Lloyd, Planner
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Dove called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Powell welcomed everyone and Mayor Dove gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Powell led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Public Comment
   Dr. Kerry Gilliland, owner of property at 240 E. Bay Street, spoke about his
proposed plan to build a house on his waterfront lot. The structure will
include a replica of the original Pilots Tower. A portfolio of the project was
provided to each Board member. Noting that previously approved installation of
parking spaces will severely affect the landscape plan, Dr. Gilliland made a
request that no street parking spaces be placed in front of his proposed home.
   Ms. Lora Sharkey, 432 Cades Trail, stated her support for a planned greenway
to Walmart. She emphasized that the greenway will be a safe access to essential
goods and services for those individuals who do not drive or are handicapped.
E)   Approval of Agenda
   Mayor Dove requested: Addition of Consent Agenda Item 3A, Whistle Blower
Policy.
    Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Poole to approve the agenda as
amended.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Dove stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
F)   Announcements
   Mayor Dove recognized Mr. Bill Meadows. Mr. Meadows talked about the new
Southport map he designed and created. A copy of the map was provided to each
Board member and will be available in local shops. He pointed out that the map
identifies 650 structures including 97 historical homes, 69 businesses,
churches, public and historical places. He stated that the map had been posted
on the city’s web page and will be updated every six months.
   Mayor Dove recognized Representative Frank Iler attending.
   Mayor Dove announced that Mayor’s Day would be held Wednesday, December 14,
4:00 – 5:30 p.m. in the Fire Department substation on East Nash Street.
   Mayor Dove thanked city staff, Beautification Committee, and Downtown
Southport Inc. (DSI) for decorating the city for the holiday season.
   Mayor Dove thanked the Board for their support during his first year as
Mayor.
   Alderman Mosteller announced that Winterfest activities had begun.
   Alderman Coring announced that the Christmas Parade would start at 6:30 p.m.
Friday, December 9. He stated that Howe Street would be closed at 6:00 p.m.
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to approve the consent
agenda as amended. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Minutes for November 10, 2016 Regular Meeting, including Closed Session–
approved
   2.   Final Plat; The Hammocks subdivision – approved
   3.   Resolution; NCDOT, School Zone Speed Limit – approved
   3.a.   Whistle Blower Policy – approved; to be put into Article 7 of the
Personnel Policy
   (policy on file in the Clerk’s office)
Resolution Requesting the North Carolina Department of Transportation To Set a
School Zone Speed Limit of 25 miles per hour on Secondary Road 1209
WHEREAS, Secondary Road 1209, a state road, is located within the municipal
limits of the City of Southport; and
WHEREAS, this road is a high traffic road leading to Southport Elementary
School; and
WHEREAS, the Southport Board of Aldermen hereby determines and declares that a
speed limit of 25 mph in the school zone is a safe and reasonable speed limit
on said road;
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the Southport Board of Aldermen:
That 25 miles per hour Municipal Speed Zone Ordinance # 1002397 is hereby
repealed and rescinded:
   W. 9th Street (SR1209) from its western terminus, at Southport Primary
School to Burrington Avenue (Southport Primary School zone, in effect from 7:30
a.m. to 8:30 a.m. and 2:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. on school days only) (School speed
zone)
That 25 miles per hour Municipal School Speed Zone Ordinance # 1071275 is
hereby adopted and enacted:
   (West 9th Street and Maple Street) between 0.40 mile west of NC 211 (North
Howe Street) and 0.784 mile west of NC 211 (Southport Elementary School) to be
in effect from 30 minutes before to 30 minutes after school begins and ends on
school days only.
This the 8th day of December, 2016.      
City of Southport
/s/ J.V. Dove, Mayor   
   ATTEST:   /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk   
AGENDA
4.   Presentation; North Carolina Department of Transportation
   Mr. Chad Kimes, Deputy Division 3 Engineer, North Carolina Department of
Transportation (NCDOT), presented an update on the NC211/Long Beach Road
Intersection Improvement. Each Board member was provided with a packet of the
presentation (copy on file in the clerk’s office). Mr. Kimes stated that
Alternate 6A had been selected as the final design for the intersection and
would include a new access road by the existing Lowe’s Hardware, a full use
intersection at the juncture of the new access road and Long Beach Road and a
bridge over 211. He pointed out that the following will be provided for the
proposed commercial development along Long Beach Road Extension:
Still has 3 approved access breaks.
One access on NC 211. Directional left over, right in right out (This is an
improvement if no interchange was constructed). This will also allow a
directional leftover for business on opposite side.
Right in right out on NC 133 near the proposed bridge.
Full movement intersection on NC 133 across new Ramp/Access Road.
   Mr. Kimes noted that DOT would continue to monitor the area for future
growth. He asked for the Board’s support of Alternate 6A in the form of a
resolution.
   Board members thanked Mr. Kimes and his team for being responsive to the
city’s requests.
   Board consensus to review the information provided.
5.   Public Hearing pursuant to N.C.G.S. 160A-364; Unified Development
Ordinance (UDO) Text Amendment Article 2, Basic Definitions and Interpretations
and Article 10, Table of Permitted Uses
   Pursuant to N.C.G.S. 160A-364, Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman
Pukenas to Open Public Hearing. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Mr. Lloyd gave a brief summary of the proposed UDO amendment to add a
definition and specific use criteria for Portable Storage Containers.
   No one from the public spoke.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Poole to close Public Hearing.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
6.   Consideration of UDO Text Amendment
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to approve the
amendment.
   Discussion
   Alderman Poole, speaking as liaison to the Planning Board, stated that the
amendment was thoroughly reviewed multiple times by the Planning Board and city
staff and the amendment was in the best interest of the city.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
AN ORDINANCE APPROVING TEXT AMENDMENTS TO THE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
THAT WHEREAS, the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance and other
land use ordinances that control land development within both the City’s
incorporated areas and within its extraterritorial area; and
   WHEREAS, in order to promote the public health, safety and general welfare
and to promote the best interest of the city and community, it is necessary for
the City Board of Aldermen from time to time to consider appropriate revisions,
modifications and additions to the city’s land use ordinances; and
   WHEREAS, City Staff, in conjunction with the Planning Board, has prepared
proposed amendments to Article 2 and Article 10 of the Southport Unified
Development Ordinance; and
   WHEREAS, the Planning Board has thoroughly considered this matter and find
the proposed amendments to the Unified Development Ordinance to be consistent
with the City of Southport CAMA Core Land Use Plan and recommend their
approval; and
   WHEREAS, pursuant to N. C. General Statutes and city ordinances, a public
hearing, properly noticed, was held on December 8, 2016, before the Board of
Aldermen regarding this issue; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen, after considering the public hearing
response and the recommendation of the Planning Board, hereby find that these
proposed amendments to the Unified Development Ordinance are consistent with
the Southport CAMA Core Land Use Plan; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that these amendments are
reasonable and in the public interest because they will create standards and
put rules in place for portable storage containers. This directly aligns with
one of the City’s Core Values of the 2014 CAMA Core Land Use Plan, to “preserve
the city’s residential areas.” Without regulation, portable storage containers
could change the character of residential neighborhoods and hurt property
values. Furthermore, an absence of standards for public storage containers
could become a safety issue if they were used as habitable structures.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that the
attached amendments to Articles 2 and 10 of the Southport Unified Development
Ordinance are hereby approved and adopted.
This, the 8th day of December, 2016.      City of Southport
                     BY: /s/ J.V. Dove, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk      
AMENDMENT TO CITY OF SOUTHPORT UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
TEXT AMENDMENT # 16-0824-01
AMEND BY ADDITION:
1) ARTICLE 2: BASIC DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS   
Section 2-2 “Definitions of Basic Terms” is hereby amended by adding the
following definition in alphabetical sequence:
Portable Storage Containers: A container designed to store personal property
which are typically rented and intended to be delivered and removed by truck.
Portable storage containers shall not be used as a dwelling and shall not
impede public vehicular or pedestrian access or create a public safety hazard.
This definition includes shipping containers and other portable self-storage
units.
   (a)   Temporary. A portable storage container that is used for less than a
year.
(b)   Permanent. A portable storage container for commercial use.
2) ARTICLE 10: TABLE OF PERMITTED USES
Section 10-1 “Notes to the Table of Permitted Uses” is here by amended by
adding the following as Note 16.
Note 16. Portable Storage Containers. Portable storage containers are permitted
when the following conditions are met:
   (1)    A temporary portable storage container may be placed for thirty (30)
or less consecutive days in any twelve month period without issuance of a
permit in all zoning districts upon notification of the Building Inspector.
   (2)    Temporary portable storage containers being used for over thirty (30)
days shall apply for and obtain a permit from the Building Inspector. A maximum
of one (1) portable storage container shall be allowed per lot in residential
areas for up to a twelve (12) month period if the following conditions are met:
(a)   The principal structure is damaged and is undergoing repairs,
constructions, reconstruction, or renovation.
      (b)   A building permit has been issued for the repairs, constructions,
reconstruction, or renovation, if required, and is valid.
      (c)   After a twelve (12) month period, an extension may be granted for
up to thirty (30) additional days as approved by the Building Inspector.
      (d)   Temporary portable storage containers used by developers for
construction of a subdivision shall renew their permit with the Building
Inspector every twelve (12) months. Portable storage containers must be removed
upon completion of the subdivision.
   (3)   Permanent portable storage containers may be permitted for commercial
use as storage. Permanent portable storage containers may be permitted in the
business, highway commercial, light industrial, and heavy commercial districts
per approval of the Building Inspector. Permanent portable storage containers
shall submit a site plan for review by the Building Inspector.
   (4)   Permanent portable storage containers in commercial areas shall be
screened from view of any public right-of-way, private street or access
easements and any residential use or residential zoning district. Screening
shall be accomplished by a combination of fencing or landscaping, which is
contiguous and at least 1 foot higher than the height of the container.
Screening plans shall be included in the site plan submitted to the Building
Inspector for review.
   (5)   Permanent portable storage containers shall not be permitted as
accessory structures or habitable structures in residential districts.   
   (6)   Portable storage containers shall not be located in an area that
displaces required parking standards.
   (7)   Setback requirements for portable storage containers shall be the same
as setback requirements for accessory structures in their respective zoning
districts according to Article 11 of the Unified Development Ordinance.
   (8)   Portable storage containers shall meet the following appearance
standards:
      (a)   Portable storage containers shall not exceed the dimensions of
forty (40) feet in length, eight (8) feet in width and ten (10) feet in height.
Stacking of portable storage containers shall not be permitted
      (b)   No sign shall be attached to a portable storage container other
than the provider’s contact information.
      (c)    The structure of a portable storage container shall be maintained
in good condition free from structural damage, rust and deterioration.
   (9)   All portable storage containers located in the City of Southport and
its
      Extraterritorial jurisdiction prior to this text amendment which do not
comply with the terms hereof shall be designated as non-conforming and shall be
removed or brought into compliance with the terms hereof within twelve (12)
months from the date of approval of this ordinance.
7.   Set dates for January workshops
   City Manager McDuffie asked if the Board would be interested in conducting
two (2) workshops, one for departmental feedback for preparation of the FY
2017-2018 budget and another for consideration of large projects.
    Board consensus to hold the annual retreat on Saturday, February 4, 2017,
9:00 a.m. in the Fire Department Emergency Operations Center.
Board Comments
   Each Board member wished a Merry Christmas and Happy New Year to the public,
city staff and their fellow board members.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Poole to authorize the City
Manager, upon polling of the Board on Wednesday, December 14, to execute a
resolution in support of the NCDOT Alternate 6A NC211/Long Beach Road Extension
Intersection improvement. Unanimous vote; motion carried. 
Adjourn – 7:26 p.m.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Poole to adjourn the meeting.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.  
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
2017
JANUARY 12, 2017
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING JANUARY 12, 2017
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Karen Mosteller, Jim Powell, Todd Coring, Rick Pukenas
ABSENT:         Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole & Nelson Adams
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
   Gary Smith, Police Chief
   David Fox, Public Works Director
   Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
   Randy Jones, Tourism Director
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   Thomas Lloyd, Planner
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Dove called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Mayor Dove welcomed everyone and gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Mayor Dove led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Public Comment
   Mr. Woody Wilson, 502 W. Brunswick Street, stated his support for the
proposed Prepared Food Tax, noting that the tax would be minimal. He encouraged
the Board to make the commitment to use the funds for the waterfront. He urged
citizens in support of the tax to contact State Representatives. He expressed
appreciation to the Board for entertaining the option.
   Mr. Harley Lemons, 6228 Navigator Way, spoke to the Board about a storm
drainage problem in The Landing subdivision. He outlined the history of the
issue and asked the Board for assistance in getting the problem resolved.
   Ms. Lora Sharkey, 432 Cades Trail, spoke to the Board about the former waste
water treatment plant property at the end of W. West Street. She proposed using
the property for a kayak launch. She pointed out that the CAMA Core Land Use
Plan recommends the area be zoned Open Space (OS) because of its proximity to
Indigo Marsh. She contended that development of the property could
detrimentally impact the marsh. She asked the Board to consider retaining the
property instead of selling it. She asked all in support of the city retaining
the property and using it for water access to stand. Approximately 38 people
stood.
   Ms. Shirley Snyder, 5120 Prices Creek Drive, speaking as the Beautification
Committee chair, announced the first “Southport Day of Service” to be held on
Saturday, March 4, 9:00 – 11:30 a.m. followed by lunch in Franklin Square Park.
She asked civic and church groups to register their projects.
E)   Approval of Agenda
   Alderman Coring asked to remove the Closed Session due to the absence of two
aldermen.
   Alderman Mosteller asked to move Consent Agenda Item # 4, North Carolina
Eastern Municipal Power Agency Renewable Energy Development and Service
Agreement to the regular agenda.   
    Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to approve the agenda
as amended.  Unanimous vote; motion carried.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Dove stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
F)   Announcements
   Mayor Dove announced that the Martin Luther King, Jr., observance would
start Sunday, January 15 with a march and program at the International
Longshoreman Association (ILA) Hall. A memorial breakfast would be held at 8:00
a.m., Monday, January 16 at the Trinity United Methodist Church.
   City Manager McDuffie announced that a ribbon cutting would be held
Saturday, February 4, 2:00 p.m. for the new fire substation on Long Beach Road.
   Mayor Dove announced that the fire department would be holding a large scale
drill at the Southport Marina January 17th. . Other neighboring agencies are
participating.
G)   Special Recognition
   Mayor Dove recognized Officer Jason Freeman for his distinguished
meritorious service that resulted in the saving of a life on November 30, 2016
at Waterfront Park. Officer Freeman recognized Southport Fire/Rescue; “Together
we saved that gentleman’s life.”
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to approve the consent
agenda as amended. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
1.   Minutes for December 8, 2016 Regular Meeting – approved
2.   Increase Credit Limit from $32,500 to $38,500  – approved
3.   Amended Ordinance to Extend the Corporate Limits of the City of Southport
- approved
4.   Resolution Requesting Support of a Prepared Meals Tax – approved
5.   Accept Petition for Annexation of 1159 N. Caswell Avenue – approved
6.   Appointment of Tax Collector – approved
AMENDED ORDINANCE TO EXTEND THE CORPORATE LIMITS OF THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT,
NORTH CAROLINA
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen previously adopted a resolution under G. S.
160A-31 stating its’ intent to annex the area described below owned by the City
of Southport; and
   WHEREAS, a public hearing on the question of this annexation was held at the
Southport Community Building at 6:00 pm on July 14, 2016, after due notice; and
   WHEREAS, on July 14, 2016, following said hearing, the Board of Aldermen
adopted an ordinance annexing said property; and
   WHEREAS, said ordinance now needs to be amended in order to correct a minor
error in the description contained therein;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport, North Carolina that:
   Section 1. By virtue of the authority granted by G. S. 160A-31, the
following described contiguous property owned by the City of Southport is
hereby annexed and made part of the City of Southport as of the date hereof:
BEING all of that certain 2.54 acre (110732.20 square feet) tract of land
according to a Survey for the City of Southport by Tide Water Land Surveying
duly recorded in Map Cabinet 98 at Page 42 of the Brunswick County Registry,
said tract having the metes, bounds and location as shown on said map.
   Section 2. The Mayor shall cause to be recorded in the office of the
Register of Deeds of Brunswick County and in the Office of the Secretary of
State in Raleigh, North Carolina, an accurate map of the annexed territory,
together with a certified copy of this ordinance. Such a map shall also be
delivered to the Brunswick County Board of Elections as required by G. S. 163-
288.1.
   Adopted this 12th day of January, 2017. City of Southport
                           BY: /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
CITY OF SOUTHPORT
RESOLUTION REQUESTING SUPPORT OF A PREPARED MEALS TAX
WHEREAS, the City of Southport waterfront is in need of improvements that will
require significant infrastructure expenditure; and
WHEREAS, people from many areas come to enjoy the Southport waterfront; and
WHEREAS, all individuals who enjoy the waterfront should participate in the
needed infrastructure improvements instead of only being funded from taxes of
property owners; and
NOW THEREFORE, be it resolved, that the City of Southport Board of Aldermen
request the NC General Assembly to establish a Prepared Meals Tax of one-half
percent (0.5%) and dedicate the funds to infrastructure in Southport.
This the 12th day of January, 2017            By: /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
RESOLUTION DIRECTING THE CLERK TO INVESTIGATE A PETITION RECEIVED UNDER G.S.
160A-31
   WHEREAS, a petition requesting annexation of an area described in said
petition was received on January 6, 2017, by the Board of Aldermen; and
   WHEREAS, G.S. 160A-31 provides that the sufficiency of the petition shall be
investigated by the City Clerk before further annexation proceedings may take
place; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport deems it advisable
to proceed in response to this request for annexation;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport that:
   The City Clerk is hereby directed to investigate the sufficiency of the
above described petition and to certify as soon as possible to the Board of
Aldermen the result of her investigation.
                     /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk   
AGENDA 
7.   Public Hearing pursuant to N.C.G.S. 160A-364; Unified Development
Ordinance (UDO) Text Amendment Article 2, Basic Definitions and Interpretations
and Article 10, Table of Permitted Uses
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Powell to open the Public
Hearing. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Mr. Lloyd, Planner, explained the proposed UDO text amendment to bring the
definition of Family Care Homes in line with State law. He stated that the
Planning Board found the amendment consistent with the CAMA Core Land Use Plan
and recommended adoption by the Board of Aldermen.
   No one from the public spoke
   Alderman Mosteller motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to close the Public
Hearing. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
8.   Consideration of UDO Text Amendment
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Powell to adopt the
amendment.  Unanimous vote; motion carried.
AN ORDINANCE APPROVING TEXT AMENDMENTS TO THE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
THAT WHEREAS, the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance and other
land use ordinances that control land development within both the City’s
incorporated areas and within its extraterritorial area; and
   WHEREAS, in order to promote the public health, safety and general welfare
and to promote the best interest of the city and community, it is necessary for
the City Board of Aldermen from time to time to consider appropriate revisions,
modifications and additions to the city’s land use ordinances; and
   WHEREAS, City Staff, in conjunction with the Planning Board, has prepared
proposed amendments to Article 2 and Article 10 of the Southport Unified
Development Ordinance; and
   WHEREAS, the Planning Board has thoroughly considered this matter and find
the proposed amendments to the Unified Development Ordinance to be consistent
with the City of Southport CAMA Core Land Use Plan and recommend their
approval; and
   WHEREAS, pursuant to N. C. General Statutes and city ordinances, a public
hearing, properly noticed, was held on January 12, 2017, before the Board of
Aldermen regarding this issue; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen, after considering the public hearing
response and the recommendation of the Planning Board, hereby find that these
proposed amendments to the Unified Development Ordinance are consistent with
the Southport CAMA Core Land Use Plan; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that these amendments are
reasonable and in the public interest in that they are necessary in order to
ensure consistency with North Carolina General Statutes related to family care
homes.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that the
attached amendments to Articles 2 and 10 of the Southport Unified Development
Ordinance are hereby approved and adopted.
This, the 12th day of January, 2017.         City of Southport
                     BY: /s/ J.V. Dove, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
AMENDMENT TO CITY OF SOUTHPORT UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
TEXT AMENDMENT # 16-1208-01
An Ordinance Amending the City of Southport Unified Development Ordinance, With
Respect to the Basic Definitions and Interpretations and the Table of Permitted
Uses
AMEND BY ADDITION:
1) ARTICLE 2: BASIC DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS
Section 2-2 “Definitions of Basic Terms” is hereby amended by modifying the
following definition in alphabetical sequence:
(112) Family Care Home. An adult care home having two to six residents. The
structure of a family care home may be no more than two stories high and none
of the aged or physically disabled persons being served there may be housed in
the upper without provision for two direct exterior ground level accesses to
the upper story. A home licensed pursuant to G.S. 131D, Article 1 or G.S
Chapter 122C, Article 2 for adults and children with support and supervisory
personnel that provides room and board, personal care, and habilitation
services in a family environment for not more than six (6) resident handicapped
persons as defined in G.S 168-21. Handicapped persons are defined as such
persons that have a temporary or permanent physical, emotional, or mental
disability including but not limited to mental retardation, cerebral palsy,
epilepsy, autism, hearing or sight impairments. This does not include mentally
ill persons who are dangerous to others as defined in NC G.S 122C-3 (11) (b).
2) ARTICLE 10: TABLE OF PERMITTED USES
Section 10-1 “Notes to the Table of Permitted Uses” is here by amended by
adding the following as Note 17.
Note 17. Family Care Homes.
   (A)   A proposed family care home or group home shall be located no closer
than a one-half mile radius from any existing permitted family care home or
group home within any zoning district whether contiguous or not.
   (B)   With respect to the distance between the proposed use and the
existing, permitted uses described in subsection (a) above, the distance shall
be measured by following a straight line from the nearest point of the lot line
of the proposed use to the nearest point of the lot line of the lot on which
the existing facility is located.    
   (C)   The Board of Adjustments may grant a variance from the separation
requirement if shown to be a reasonable accommodation under the Fair Housing
Act.
   (D)   The structure of a family care home may be no more than two stories
high and none of the aged or physically disabled persons being served there may
be housed in the upper story without provision for two direct exterior ground
level accesses to the upper story.
9.   Forestry Committee Recommendation
   Alderman Mosteller presented a listing created by the Forestry Committee of
trees chosen for special significance:
      1.   “Indian Tree” (Keziah Park)
      2.   The two Live Oaks on the Garrison Lawn
      3.   The “Grandmother tree” (Owen and Lord)
      4.   The “Four Sisters” (Behind the Masonic lodge)
      5.   The large Live Oak on Rhett, in front of the burying ground (This is
a particularly nice LO, covered in Resurrection Fern)
      6.   Large Live Oak at Brunswick Inn (Atlantic and Bay)
      7.   The Cedar at the Whittler’s bench
      8.   Live Oaks at Community Center (Bay Street side, on either side of
deck)
      9.   Any/All of the Live Oaks in the median of E. West Street (adjacent
to gym and Franklin Square)
      10.   Any/All of the Live Oaks on Nash, in front of Post Office and
Masonic Lodge.
   Alderman Mosteller proposed a year to year action plan for care and
maintenance of the trees. She stated that she had met with Mr. Tim Matthews of
the NC Cooperative Extension Office and Sam Marshall, horticulture agent for
the Brunswick County Cooperative Extension Office about doing soil tests. She
indicated soil analysis would cost $4 per sample for an estimated total of $200
- $300. She asked the Board to approve the expenditure. There was no objection
from the Board to proceed with the soil analysis as funds had been budgeted.
10.   Electric Vehicle Charging Station
   City Manager McDuffie reported that Electrical Superintendent Ellie
Pittenger had obtained a matching grant for $10,000 towards installation of an
electric vehicle charging station. City Manager McDuffie stated that a location
at the water tower had been considered at a total installation cost of $20,000.
Another option, the former E. Nash Street location for the NC Driver’s License
Agency had electric available and would cost less than the water tower location
but three (3) parking spaces would be eliminated.
   Alderman Powell pointed out that the city had more pressing projects and
losing three parking spaces in the downtown business district would not be a
favorable approach.
   Alderman Coring, referencing the $580 hook-up and annual maintenance fee,
said he did not see the need for the project.
   While stating support for new technology, Alderman Mosteller shared her
opinion that the water tower would be the best location. She agreed with
Aldermen Powell and Coring that losing parking in the downtown business
district was not acceptable and the city already had many projects underway.
   Alderman Pukenas supported the conceptual part of the plan, but agreed with
fellow aldermen that the city had many projects with a higher priority.
11.   Consideration of Acceptance of right-of-way
   City Planner Lloyd reported that Mr. Michael Bellany had approached city
staff about donating a portion of the Hankinsville Road entrance off 9th
Street, in the form of a 20 foot easement. Mr. Bellamy expressed to Mr. Lloyd
that he thought the donation would be the first step for the city in working
towards gaining access and maintaining Hankinsville Road.
   City Planner Lloyd presented issues and options for consideration:
   Considerations
   ∙   Width of the Easement: The first consideration is whether the width of
the easement is large enough. In order to be eligible for inclusion in the
Powell Bill, the average width of the road must be 16 feet. To my knowledge,
the City has never accepted a 20 foot easement for a road.
   ∙   Liability and Maintenance: If we accept this, we will be legally
required to maintain this road to DOT standards and will also be liable for it.
   ∙   Emergency Vehicles: Although we are already able to get in and out with
certain vehicles, some of our larger vehicles would not be able to access
Hankinsville Road with only a 20 foot easement.
   ∙   Road Improvements: Currently, this portion of the road is unimproved. If
the deed of easement is accepted, the City would be responsible for improving
this portion of the road.
   Options
∙   Option 1: Accept the 20 foot easement and improve and maintain the road. If
we could ensure the road has a 16 foot width and bring it up to DOT standards,
we could claim it as a Powell Bill road. It is estimated that a 16 foot wide
paved asphalt road on this portion of Hankinsville with a length of 165 feet
would cost roughly $12,000. We could also gravel this portion. Once the first
portion is accepted, we would need to work towards obtaining easements for the
rest of it.
∙   Option 2: Offer to accept the easement if we can get a larger right-of-way.
For example, in subdivisions our UDO requires at least a 60 foot right-of-way
and a 20 foot road. Rough estimates put a 20 foot wide paved asphalt road with
a length of 165 for this portion at $15,000. This portion could also be
graveled. Based on the size right-of-way that the Board would want, we could
work with remaining property owners towards obtaining approximately sized
easements to improve and maintain the road.
   Attorney Isenberg spoke about other instances when the city had accepted a
reduced right-of-way of 30’.
   Alderman Powell asked the Building Inspector if he knew of any city
developments with a right-of-way less than 60’. Mr. Strickland indicated that
The Landing and Cottages at Prices Creek subdivisions had 50’ rights-of-way.
   Alderman Powell expressed appreciation for the donation but said the
proposed 20’ right-of-way was not enough. Aldermen Mosteller, Coring and
Pukenas agreed.
   Alderman Mosteller stated her opinion that the right-of-way should be 60’
with a 20’ wide road surface.
   Attorney Isenberg stated that the road has been a neighborhood road and
never dedicated to the public. He said that the other property owners could be
approached to determine interest in dedicating an easement to the city.
   Board consensus for the City Planner to contact Mr. Bellamy and advise him
of the Board’s position.
12.   Set Agenda for February 4, 2017 Retreat
   City Manager McDuffie presented a list of major projects underway by staff.
He asked the Board for direction on which items to put on the February 4th
Retreat agenda. Consensus to include all items. Responding to a query from
Alderman Coring, City Manager McDuffie reported that the salary study would be
presented to the Board during the retreat by Becky Veazy of The MAPS Group at
approximately 11:00 a.m.
   Alderman Coring asked for inclusion of Downtown Wi-Fi on the February 4 th
agenda.
13.   North Carolina Eastern Municipal Power Agency Renewable Energy
Development and Service Agreement (copy of agreement on file in the Clerk’s
office)
   City Manager McDuffie explained that the agreement with NCEMPA provides for
NCEMPA to be the City’s agent to continue to develop, coordinate and administer
the Renewable Energy Portfolio Standards (“REPS”) Compliance Program as set
forth by the NC General Assembly.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to accept the
agreement. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Adjourn – 7:26 p.m.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to adjourn the
meeting. Unanimous vote; motion carried.  
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
FEBRUARY 4, 2017
RETREAT MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN   RETREAT MINUTES
FIRE HEADQUARTERS   FEBRUARY 4, 2017
1011 N. HOWE STREET SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor J.V. Dove
         Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Karen Mosteller, Nelson Adams
         Jim Powell, Todd Coring, Rick Pukenas
STAFF PRESENT:   Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
         Michele Windham, City Clerk
         Tanya Crews-Beecher, Deputy City Clerk
         Mike Simmons, Police Lieutenant
         Charles Drew, Fire Chief
         Randy Jones, Tourism Director
         Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
         David Fox, Public Works Director
         Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
         B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
         Thomas Lloyd, Planner   
         Ellie Pittenger, Load Management Coordinator
Call to Order - 9:00 a.m.
   Mayor Dove called the meeting to order at 9:00 a.m.
Invocation
   Alderman Adams welcomed everyone and Mayor Dove gave the invocation.
Pledge of Allegiance
Alderman Adams led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
MAJOR PROJECTS
Tourism Director Randy Jones
Fort Johnston Garrison Brick Restoration
   An overview of the Brick Restoration Project for Fort Johnston was provided
in the meeting agenda packet for the Board’s review. (copy on file in the
Clerk’s office)
   The Board had no questions for Mr. Jones pertaining to the project.
Downtown Wi-Fi
   An update on the Downtown Corridor Free Wi-Fi was provided in the meeting
agenda packet as follows:
   Wireless availability is integral for the continued growth and development
of a successful tourist destination. Our goal is to make free wireless
available to the downtown Southport Corridor. This will be advantageous for
visitors, residents and businesses.
   A bid was received from Nexgrid in the amount of $7,435.85 for five Nexgrid
gateways in the downtown area with adding a second SSID to the gateways for
public Wi-Fi.
   A matching Smart Community Grant was obtained through ElectriCities in the
amount of $4,000 to help cover the cost. The remaining funds are approved in
the Department of Tourism 2016-2017 budget.
   The Board had no questions for Mr. Jones pertaining to the project.
   Parks & Recreation Director Heather Hemphill
Former Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP)
   Director Hemphill provided the Board with estimated costs to demolish the
former WWTP including costs to dispose of debris and solids. Depending on the
design for demolition, Director Hemphill estimated $400,000 for the project.
She indicated storage units would also need to be purchased for Christmas
decorations and other items currently stored at the location.
   Director Hemphill also provided estimates for turning the property into open
space/nature park and kayak launch. She estimated $20,000 – $100,000 depending
on the type of materials used, design of park and permitting. She pointed out
that the launch would have to be ADA compliant and a CAMA permitting process
would be involved due to the wetlands.
   Director Hemphill asked if the Board wanted to demolish the WWTP, sell the
property or turn it into a nature park with kayak launch.
   Alderman Adams shared his recollection that the Board had previously reached
a consensus to sell the property and use the revenue to offset other projects.
   Noting that citizens had expressed an interest in a park in that area,
Alderman Mosteller pointed out that the CAMA Core Land Use Plan supports
designating the area as Open Space and a park. She stated that the 2015-2020
Parks, Recreation and Open Space Master Plan indicates that Southport is
lacking the amount of water access facilities for the community and should have
two access points. She stated her opinion that it is important to explore
options and she suggested asking the Parks & Recreation Board to form a
committee to delve into possible options.
   Alderman Powell agreed with Alderman Adams. He cited pending projects, i.e.
sewer, old city hall and specifically the waterfront, noting that the latter is
the drawing card for tourism.
   Alderman Poole, commenting that she sees plans as conceptual, and that the
Board had approved many plans which she wished could all be done, stated that
the issue is how to pay for all of the projects. She emphasized that the Board
needs to address the city’s basic needs first.
   Alderman Coring stated he agreed with both sides of the discussion. He said
he did not recall a consensus to sell the property. He pointed out that the
property is unique. He remarked that interest in kayaking has grown around the
world. Acknowledging that many outstanding projects are underway, he stated his
opinion that he does not see a problem with the park option being looked at.
   Alderman Coring read the following letter into the record:
   February 1, 2017
Southport citizens ask the Board of Aldermen to retain the former waste water
property on W. West Street for future use as a nature park. We believe the
creation of a nature park on land currently owned by Southport would provide a
tourism asset, support the goals of the Southport Parks and Recreation Master
Plan and would help maintain clean water in our environment.
To accomplish the repurposing of the old water treatment site to a nature park
we propose the formation of a nonpolitical, nonprofit citizens group, Friends
of The Southport Nature Park. This type of nonprofit organization is
instrumental in the protection of historical landmarks, fundraising,
facilitating maintenance and operating venues. “Friends” organizations work
together with local government agencies to accomplish strategic goals.
There are several of examples of local “Friends” groups here. These groups
provide leadership and financial support to enhance citizens’ quality of life
as well as contributing to the tourism attractions in our locality.
   Friends of the Southport Maritime Museum
   Friends of the Southport and Oak Island Libraries
   Friends of the Oak Island Lighthouse
To move forward we ask the Board of Aldermen to commit to retain the wastewater
treatment property on W. West Street. If this is agreed, the citizens
submitting this request will formally organize a Friends of The Southport
Nature Park as a 501c3 organization. It would be open to all interested
residents of Southport. This group would undertake the task of exploring what
is possible to repurpose the site and how it can be funded through grants and
donations.
This proposal is submitted by:
Claus Fey         Lora Sharkey      Shirley Snyder
615 Marsh Grass Court      432 Cades Trail      5120 Prices Creek Drive
Marian and Brian Stevens      Emma Thomas
503 Cades Trail         216 N. Atlantic Avenue
   Alderman Pukenas made two points:
   1.   The data is incomplete until the value of the property is determined.
   2.   The option is not an “all or nothing.” A kayak launch could be
incorporated into a commercial venture.
   Mayor Dove agreed with Alderman Pukenas.
   Alderman Mosteller voiced her opinion that the property was made up of two
parcels and the water access parcel could be designated as Open Space and a
park.
   It was the consensus of the Board for staff to get an evaluation of the
property and options for saving a portion of it for public access.
Lord Street Gym
   Director Hemphill provided the following overview of the project:
   The City of Southport entered into a contract with Brunswick community
College to accept the property and have a new roof and exterior painted by June
2017. In May of 2016, the Board agreed to budget $160,000 to go towards the
estimated costs of $320,000 for the roof and paint. The remaining $160, 000 was
to be raised through a public fund raising effort with funds collected by
January 31, 2017. To date, pledges equal $20,000. There are requirements that
need to be met by the end of June 2017 or the contract needs to be renegotiated
with Brunswick Community College.
   Staff would like direction on how to proceed.
   Alderman Adams, always a great supporter of the project, suggested opening
negotiations with Brunswick Community College. Mayor Dove stated he would meet
with the college president and report back to the Board.
City Boat Docks
   Director Hemphill provided the following:
   The boat docks sustained damage from Hurricane Matthew that resulted in the
temporary closure of the property until repairs or upgrades can be made. Quotes
for repairs or complete renovations have been received. Dredging cannot begin
until at the earliest October 2017 by the Corps of Engineers due to current
dredging and use of spoil area near here. We can always contract with a private
company to dredge and haul spoil but that will be more expensive. We are
currently waiting on FEMA to see where we stand with covering the cost of
damage.
   Staff would like direction on how to proceed.
DISCUSSION TO BE PROVIDED
240 E. Bay Street
   Director Hemphill shared an offer made by the property owner of 240 East Bay
Street. (copy of offer on file in the Clerk’s office)
   No action was taken by the Board.
Fire Chief Drew
Temporary Fire Substation
   Chief Drew reported that the temporary substation on Long Beach Road is
functional and a ribbon cutting is scheduled for this date at 2:00 p.m. He
invited all to come.
Permanent Fire Substation
   Chief Drew reported that the developer of Southport Crossing had donated a
parcel of land for a permanent substation which was identified by the recent
ISO inspection as a need to better serve the Fire District. Chief Drew pointed
out that a large portion of revenues are received from the fire district area
outside Southport. Chief Drew requested action from the Board to proceed with a
build design construction phase.
   Stating that the Chief did a lot of research, Alderman Poole, member of the
Emergency Services Committee who reviewed the recommendation, motioned, second
by Alderman Powell to proceed with the build design phase. Unanimous vote;
motion carried.
   Chief Drew asked permission to use the Houston-Galveston (HGAC) bidding
process to purchase a tanker pumper. Stating the Emergency Services Committee
consensus, Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Poole to use the HGAC
bidding process to purchase a tanker pumper. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
201 E. Moore Street Building
   City Manager McDuffie reported that no bids were received for the
replacement of the roof on the 201 E. Moore Street building. He stated that the
project is being re-advertised and bids will be due February 28.
Police Lieutenant Mike Simmons
   Responding to a query by Mayor Dove, Sergeant Simmons stated that operations
were working well at the Police Department’s current location and crime was
going down.
   Alderman Powell commented that he was told that Southport was the only city
in the area with an A safety rating.
   Alderman Powell discussed a traffic situation at the Southport Elementary
School. Sergeant Simmons indicated that a contractor would be coming in to
determine the stability of the parking area in order to change the current
student pick-up process which is blocking the through lane on Maple Street.
   Building Inspector, Wayne Strickland
Shoreline Stabilization
   Mr. Strickland provided in the meeting agenda packet the following:
   Most damage from Hurricane Matthew has been repaired or is underway awaiting
FEMA approval of costs. We installed, in house, approximately seven hundred
linear feet of rip rap along Bay Street, protecting the street. We have
estimates for the repair of the bulkheads at the Atlantic Street waterway
access and the Waterfront Park bulkhead.
   While this has stabilized the existing shoreline, Alderman Pukenas and I met
with Atlantic Reefmaker to discuss what they are going to do at Brunswick
Town’s shoreline. We discussed the possibility of incorporating their product
into Southport’s shoreline stabilization plans. They would be available to make
a presentation to the full Board whenever they choose.
   Board consensus for Atlantic Reefmaker to do a presentation at the March 9th
Board meeting.
Planner, Thomas Lloyd
Waterfront Development
   City Planner Lloyd asked for input from the Board regarding the Waterfront
Concept Plan, specifically if the Board wanted to make and pay for waterfront
improvements in front of privately owned property, and if the Board wants to
move forward with other aspects of the plan such as the planting of trees, and
parking changes.
   Stating that planting trees would block the view, Alderman Poole motioned,
second by Alderman Pukenas to not proceed with the planting of trees on the
waterfront or change the current parking configuration. Unanimous vote; motion
carried.
   The Board discussed the shoreline stabilization project, specifically if
taxpayer money should be used to stabilize private shoreline property.
   Alderman Mosteller raised concerns to the long stretches of private property
and the possible affect to areas stabilized by the city if private property
owners did not improve their shoreline.
   Alderman Powell speculated that a public/private joint venture, similar to
the partnership to improve Yacht Basin Drive, could be undertaken.
   Alderman Adams questioned if legal ramifications would occur if public money
was spent on private property.
   Alderman Coring endorsed looking at a partnership with property owners.
   Alderman Adams motioned, second by Alderman Poole that the city not use
taxpayer money to fund the shoreline stabilization on private property.
DISCUSSION
   Alderman Powell stated his opinion that the motion made, if passed, would
jeopardize a potential partnership.
Vote:
AYE:   Aldermen Adams, Poole, Pukenas
NAY: Aldermen Powell, Coring, Mosteller
AYE: Mayor
Motion Carried 4-2
10:24 a.m. – Break
10:42 a.m. – Back in Session
Real Estate Agent
   City Planner Lloyd advised the Board that an RFP for a real estate agent to
list for sale a buildable lot in Boiling Spring Lakes and a former well site on
9th Street had been sent out.
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Powell to add the Rhett Street
Jail to the list of surplus property after an estimate of the value of the
property is obtained. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
GIS of Utilities 
The following information was provided in the Board’s agenda packet:
   The City has received an Asset Inventory and Assessment (AIA) grant of
$45,000 dollars. Asset management plans map out of the city’s water and
wastewater utilities and inventory the condition of existing infrastructure.
Staff has an estimate from the Cape Fear Council of Government (CFCOG) to
prepare an asset management plan for $70,000. Staff also has estimates for
ArcGIS Desktop software licenses and a Canon Image PROGRARF iPF840 44 inch
large format multifunction printer & scanner to create and printout GIS maps.
   The Board did not discuss the item.
COG UDO Update  
The following information was provided in the Board’s agenda packet:
   Staff has received a proposal from the CFCOG to update the Unified
Development Ordinance Table of Permitted Uses and Zoning Map. The proposed fee
is $7,500. This will include COG staff review of the table of permitted uses
and zoning map for potential conflict areas, facilitated meeting for review of
the table of permitted uses and zoning map with the Planning Board, and a
written report of the findings.
   The Board did not discuss the item.
Street Lighting Policy
The following information was provided in the Board’s agenda packet:
   Staff is trying to schedule Brunswick Electric Membership Corp. (BEMC) to
install a test area on Stuart Avenue from Moore to Leonard.
   The Board did not discuss the item.
Load Management Coordinator, Ellie Pittenger
1159 N. Caswell Avenue Electric Service
   Mr. Pittenger, Load Management Coordinator, advised the Board that City
Ordinance 19-184. Electric line extensions states: (b) Normally, the city will
make single-phase electric overhead line extensions to residential customers
without cost to such customers except that the customer may be required to
secure right-of-way on private property without cost to the city or to assist
the city in obtaining rights-of-way. The city shall be under no obligation to
construct such single-phase electric overhead extensions unless rights-of-way
are so obtained. Mr. Pittinger added that BEMC estimates the cost of $12,000 -
$15,000 to rerun a direct bury cable from 12th street.
   City Manager McDuffie explained that the North Caswell area between 12th and
14th Streets was subdivided in 1910, prior to electric service. Additionally,
he explained that the property owner is requesting annexation into the city and
city services. He stated there are five (5) separate property owners in the
area and the street has been accepted as a public easement and would need to be
annexed into the city limits in order to be accepted by the City.
   City Manager McDuffie stated that establishing electric service to the area
would encourage further development.
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Adams to provide the electric
service to the parcel.
Discussion
   Alderman Powell questioned how long it would take to recoup the investment.
City Manager McDuffie responded that he could not calculate the timeframe but
he did state that the time could be influenced with other properties annexing
and developing in the area.
   Alderman Poole wondered if the requesting property owner could contact
contiguous property owners to determine their interest in sharing the cost.
   Alderman Poole withdrew the motion, second withdrawn by Alderman Adams.
   Staff to obtain final prices and determine the cost benefit.
Joint Trench Agreement with ATMC
   Mr. Pittenger advised the Board that staff is working on a permanent joint
trench agreement with ATMC.
Pole Attachment with AT&T
   Mr. Pittenger reported to the Board that staff is negotiating with AT&T to
update the Pole Attachment Agreement, of which the original was signed with
Southern Bell in 1988 and is technologically obsolete.
Fiber Optic
   Mr. Pittenger reported that staff is obtaining prices to connect all offices
by fiber-optic cable. He indicated the connections would allow reduction in
costs for internet services at five (5) locations while increasing employee
efficiency. He added that it would also decrease costs for telephone service
and make available ALL city phones to be moved to the Fire Department Emergency
Operations Center (EOC) during a storm.
Load Management
   Mr. Pittenger reported that 615 load management switches have been installed
for 553 customers and 700 additional switches have been ordered. He stated the
City has 2,272 residential electric customers, 571 commercial customers, 24
small demand customers and 3 large demand customers.
   Alderman Mosteller expressed her excitement about the load management
process and the continued success of the program.
   Alderman Powell noted that if a customer went full load management, they
would receive the lowest electric rates in Brunswick County.
   Mr. Pittenger added that staff is looking at thermostats so that customers
with Geothermal units can be on load management and obtain further discounts.
88 Acres
   Mr. Pittenger advised that the City of Southport electric service area
includes the recently annexed 88 acres at NC211 and Long Beach Road. He stated
that the estimated cost to extend service to the area is $700,000 and the
annual revenue would be approximately $100,000. He asked the Board if they
wanted staff to pursue actual quotes or to let Brunswick Electric Membership
Corp. (BEMC) serve the property.
   Alderman Mosteller questioned if normally when a property is annexed into
the city, if the city would provide utility service. She recommended obtaining
a detailed quote.
   Alderman Poole agreed.
   Alderman Powell stressed getting site visits in order to get a fixed price
quote.
Public Works Director, David Fox
Drainage at The Landing
   Public Works Director Fox reported that staff had hit an impasse on reaching
a resolution to the drainage issue at The Landing. He asked the Board for
direction.
   Mayor Dove indicated that he and Alderman Powell would meet with Senator
Rabon and North Carolina Department of Transportation (NCDOT) representatives
and report back to the Board.
Yard Debris
   Public Works Director Fox reported that the contract with Waste Industries
would soon be coming up for renewal. He advised that there are 2,014 customers,
Waste Industries charges the city $4.24 per month per household for an annual
cost of $102,472. Mr. Fox requested direction from the Board to continue the
contract with Waste Industries or to consider providing the service in-house.
   City Manager McDuffie stated that the most complaints of all services
provided by the city are about yard waste pickup. He pointed out that Waste
Industries initially provided carts but not to all residents and there is a
disagreement as to the interpretation of equipment maintenance in the existing
contract. He stated that city staff would like to provide a better service to
the citizens.
   Alderman Powell stressed that when the contract is up for renewal for the
city attorney to tighten the language and force Waste Industries to adhere to
the agreement.
Construction of New Sewer Plant
   Public Works Director Fox reported that the city had been approved for a low
interest loan thru the Clean Water State Revolving Fund (CWSRF) Project Funding
in the amount of $19,850,608.
   City Manager McDuffie indicated that the interest rate will be 1-1/2% to 2%
and a loan package will be presented to the Board for consideration when the
package is received. He stated that Phil Norris, Norris & Tunstall Consulting
Engineers, P.C. did an initial engineering design and estimated cost of
construction at $18,900,000.
GIS of City Utilities
   Public Works Director Fox reported that the city was approved for a grant
thru the Asset Inventory and Assessment (AIA) for wastewater asset management
plan for $45,000.
Access to Walmart
   Public Works Director Fox reported that staff had met with representatives
from Rivercrest Realties and Walmart regarding putting in an access from Maple
Leaf Drive to Tidewater Plaza. He stated that staff is awaiting responses from
both parties.
   Public Works Director Fox stated that the project had been budgeted for an
estimated $30,000 to construct a not wider than golf cart size path, culvert
and pedestrian bridge.
   Alderman Powell asked about how many crimes had been reported in the area.
   Alderman Mosteller stated that the Police Chief had pulled a report and
there are 9 minor incidents on record since 1999, such as an unknown man
sitting on a bucket and then being picked up by a truck, a phone scan and an
unknown person sitting in a vehicle.
   Alderman Mosteller indicated the access is specifically listed in the 2014
adopted Comprehensive Pedestrian Transportation Plan.
   Alderman Powell pointed out that recent negotiations with the North Carolina
Department of Transportation (NCDOT) resulted in sidewalks being added to the
NC 211 widening project.
   Board consensus to await response from Walmart and the Tidewater Development
representatives.
Franklin Square Art Gallery
   Public Works Director Fox reported that he did not recall any work being
performed on the Franklin Square Art Gallery in his thirteen years with the
City. He stated that the building is in dire need of repairs and quotes were
received for exterior wood repair and painting.
   City Manager McDuffie stated that the lease on the building is scheduled to
expire at the end of 2017 and the current lease has the City responsible for
exterior maintenance and the tenant responsible for the interior maintenance.
   City Manager McDuffie pointed out that the Maritime Museum and the Nash
Street historical jail were lease for $1/yr. and the tenants were responsible
for all maintenance.
   Alderman Powell and Pukenas stated the importance of the City fulfilling the
lease obligations on a city owned building.
   Alderman Adams suggested consideration of repairs during budget time
allocations.
   Board consensus for staff to determine what items need immediate attention.
The MAPS Group, Becky Veasey
Classification and Pay Study with Personnel Policy
   City Manager McDuffie introduced Ms. Becky Veasey, The MAPS Group.
   Ms. Veasey gave an overview of her experience and credentials.
   Ms. Veasey explained the methodically used to prepare the proposed
Classification and Pay Study with Personnel Policy. She explained the Class
Specifications, the Salary Schedule, an implementation strategy, the data used
for comparisons and the representative local market salaries.
   Board to review the information provided and scheduled a meeting to meet
again with Ms. Veasey.
City Clerk, Michele Windham
1029 N. Howe Street Building
   The following information was provided in the Board’s agenda packet:
   Staff is in the process of creating an office for the Mayor in the space
vacated by Wells Fargo and is connecting computer network from the first floor
to the second floor.
   Board discussion deferred to a future meeting.
1029 Upstairs Conference Room
   The following information was provided in the Board’s agenda packet:
   Staff is exploring options for furnishing the 2nd floor conference room.
Staff would like to relocate Administration and Inspections to the 2nd floor
and use the 1st floor for Finance and Utility Billing and use remaining funds,
approximately $50,000, from the $300,000 allocated for purchase of a property
for Public Works for all relocations/remodeling
   Board discussion deferred to a future meeting.
Adjournment – 12:35 P.M.
   Meeting adjourned upon motion of Alderman Powell, second by Alderman Adams.
Vote unanimous; motion carried.   
                     /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
FEBRUARY 9, 2017
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING FEBRUARY 9, 2017
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Karen Mosteller, Jim Powell,
            Todd Coring, Rick Pukenas, Nelson Adams
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
   David Fox, Public Works Director
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   Randy Jones, Tourism Director
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   Thomas Lloyd, Planner
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Dove called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Adams welcomed everyone and Mayor Dove gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Adams led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Public Comment
   Mr. Hank Whitley, Manager of Southport Marina, addressed the Board. He
expressed gratitude for the January 17, 2017, full alarm fire drill organized
by Southport Fire Chief Drew. Mr. Whitley stated that 100 firefighters from 11
fire companies participated, the drill was incredible to witness and he was
satisfied that if ever there was a fire at the marina, it would be fought with
competent, skilled firefighters.   
   Ms. Katherine Hufham, 40 Forest Oaks Drive, passed out a petition and
pictures of the area at the end of Maple Leaf Drive that is a proposed greenway
access to Tidewater Plaza. She acknowledged the city’s good intentions and she
shared concerns that residents have about opening the pathway. She stated that
those trying to get to the proposed opening would have to cross Robert Ruark
Drive which does not have a walkway, street lights and has many blind spots.
Ms. Hufham encouraged the Board to look at safer options such as providing
transportation assistance. She added that Southport Way has narrow streets, no
sidewalks, no street lights and would pose a safety hazard for people walking,
biking, using wheelchairs or golf carts. Ms. Hufham talked about the
deteriorating condition of Forest Oak Drive. (petition and pictures on file in
the Clerk’s office).
   Ms. Sue Burkett, 4414 Willow Moss Way, speaking in opposition to the
proposed pathway to Tidewater Plaza, talked about littering, vandalism and
other nefarious behavior experienced by residents prior to the placing of a
berm to cut off the access. She expressed her opinion that a better solution
would be a sidewalk along one side of Howe Street.
   Mr. Joe SanManis, 43 Forest Oak Drive, spoke in opposition to the pathway.
He stated his opinion that the pathway was being proposed for use by people
with golf carts, the plan was ill conceived and will create a hazard for
residents.
   Mr. Mort Barish, 2121 Maple Leaf Drive, spoke in opposition to the proposed
pathway. He talked about the densely populated area of retired seniors and the
number of times residents would back their vehicles out onto narrow, unlit
roads. He emphasized the risk of small wheelchairs and cars colliding in
addition to the dangers of the retention pond that is 10 feet from the roadway
and home to alligators. (full copy of remarks on file in the Clerk’s office)
   Mr. James Rankin, 4457 Willow Moss Way, spoke in opposition to the proposed
pathway. He talked about the use of the area by vagrants, drunks, drug users,
dumping activities and a campground of undesirables. (full copy of remarks on
file in the Clerk’s office)
   Mr. Troy Walker, 807 N. Caswell, talked about litter in his neighborhood. He
asked if additional trash receptacles could be placed in the area. He
volunteered his time and offered to pay for an additional trash can.
   Mayor Dove announced that the First Annual Service Day would be held on
Saturday, March 4. He also stated that the city would look at getting
receptacles in Mr. Walker’s neighborhood.
E)   Approval of Agenda
   Alderman Poole requested moving item 8, Appointment(s) to Board of
Adjustments to the Board’s March agenda.
   Mayor Dove requested addition of Consideration of Roof Repairs to Franklin
Square Art Gallery at item 8.
    Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to approve the agenda
as amended.  Unanimous vote; motion carried.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Dove stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
F)   Announcements
   Mayor Dove announced that the Southport Police Department was providing free
child safety seats installation.
   Mayor Dove announced that Black History Month observances would be held in
the Community Building on February 10 through 12.
   Mayor Dove announced that the playing of Taps would resume at Waterfront
Park beginning Memorial Day and run through Labor Day.
   Mayor Dove announced that he would hold a Mayor’s Day, Thursday, February
16, 4:00 – 5:30 p.m. at the fire/rescue substation, 111 E. Nash Street.
   Alderman Mosteller announced that the Forestry Committee meets every 2 nd
Tuesday of each month at 5:00 p.m. in the fire substation. She stated that the
Committee would be advertising soon for new members and she encouraged citizens
to join.
   Alderman Mosteller talked about the Day of Service sponsored by the Tourism
Department to be held Saturday, March 4, 9:00 a.m. and followed by lunch at
Franklin Square Park.
   City Manager McDuffie announced that a new interactive voice response system
for paying utility bills with a debit or credit card is available 24 hours a
day at 910-363-1002.
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to approve the consent
agenda.   Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Minutes for January 12, 2017 Regular Meeting; Minutes of January 31 Bid Opening
– approved
2.   Downtown Southport, Inc. (DSI); Use of Franklin Square Park for Winter
Craft Festival –    approved
3.   Accept Clerk’s Certification and Set Public Hearing for Voluntary
Annexation - approved
4.   Resolution Supporting the Development of a Joint Land Use Study (JLUS) for
the Military Ocean Terminal Sunny Point (MOTSU) and Surrounding Local
Governments – approved
CERTIFICATE OF SUFFICIENCY
   To the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North Carolina:
   I, Michele Windham, City Clerk, do hereby certify that I have investigated
the attached petition and hereby find that said petition is signed by all
owners of real property lying in the area described herein in    accordance
with G.S. 160A-31.
   In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the seal of the
City of Southport, this 1st day    of February, 2017.
                     /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
RESOLUTION FIXING DATE OF PUBLIC HEARING ON QUESTION OF ANNEXATION PURSUANT TO
G.S. 160A-31
WHEREAS, a petition requesting annexation of the area described herein has been
received; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen has by resolution directed the City Clerk to
investigate the sufficiency of the petition; and
WHEREAS, certification by the City Clerk as to the sufficiency of the petition
has been made;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport, North Carolina that:
Section 1.   A public hearing on the question of annexation described herein
will be held at the Southport Community Building located at 223 E. Bay Street
in Southport, N.C. at 6:00 p.m. on March 9, 2017.
Section 2.   The area proposed for annexation is described as follows:
Being all of that certain parcel or tract of land lying and being in Smithville
Township, Brunswick County, North Carolina and being more particularly
described as follows:
   BEGINNING at a new iron pipe in the Western right of way of Caswell Avenue,
which said iron pipe is located South 22 degrees 52 minutes 19 seconds East 200
feet from the intersection of the Western right of way of Caswell Avenue and
the Southern right of way of 13th Street, City of Southport. From said point of
beginning South 22 degrees 52 minutes 19 seconds East with the Western right-
of-way of Caswell Avenue 50 feet to a new iron pipe; runs thence South 67
degrees 07 minutes 41 seconds West 122.77 feet to a new iron pipe; Runs thence
North 22 degrees 52 minutes 19 seconds West 50 feet to a new iron pipe; runs
thence North 67 degrees 07 minutes 41 seconds East 122.77 feet to the place end
point of beginning and being Lot 15, Block 9 of Southport Heights as per plat
of survey for Marian McKeithan by McHenry Surveying, dated November 11, 1994.
Section 3.   Notice of the public hearing shall be published once in the State
Port Pilot, a newspaper having general circulation in the City of Southport,
North Carolina, at least ten (10) days prior to the date of the public hearing.
   /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1794_2572x1556.jpg]
RESOLUTION SUPPORTING THE DEVELOPMENT OF A JOINT LAND USE STUDY (JLUS) FOR THE
MILITARY OCEAN TERMINAL SUNNY POINT (MOTSU) AND SURROUNDING LOCAL GOVERNMENTS
THAT WHEREAS, the City of Southport recognizes that the continued operation of
MOTSU is important to the economy of the area and region; and that its future
operational capacity as an important asset for our nation’s defense that should
be protected; and
WHEREAS, MOTSU is interested in participating in a JLUS to coordinate future
planning efforts of is operations with surrounding local governments; and
WHEREAS, the City of Southport recognizes that participation in and development
of a JLUS will preserve and enhance the health, safety and general welfare of
the residents of the community and surrounding areas by improving communication
between MOTSU and surrounding local governments and by developing
recommendations for coordinating compatible land uses in area.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport
that:
The Board of Aldermen agrees to participate in the development of a JLUS for
MOTSU and the surrounding local governments.
The Board of Aldermen agrees to appoint a representative(s) to the JLUS policy
committee.
The Board of Aldermen agrees to consider funding their local matching shares of
the cost of the JLUS, either in cash or in-kind or a combination thereof, once
determined by the policy committee.
The Board of Aldermen commits to a good faith effort to implement any
recommendations included in the JLUS.
The Board of Aldermen supports the appointment of the Cape Fear Council of
Governments as the sponsoring entity for the JLUS.
This, the 9th day of February, 2017.         City of
Southport                                                           
                     BY: /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk              
AGENDA
   5.   Public Hearing; Establish Open Space Zoning Classification for Parcel
ID # 221KC001, 2.47 Acre
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to open the Public
Hearing. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   City Planner Lloyd explained the proposed zoning classification. He stated
that staff had initiated the zoning of the property after learning it was
incorrectly shown as right-of-way on the Brunswick County GIS. He indicated
that the Planning Board had found the proposed zoning classification consistent
with the CAMA Core Land Use Plan and recommended adoption by the Board of
Aldermen.        
   No one from the public spoke
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Adams to close the Public
Hearing. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   6.   Consideration of Zoning
   Alderman Mosteller motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to approve the
zoning as recommended by the Planning Board.  Unanimous vote; motion carried.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1797_2031x1279.jpg]
ORDINANCE APPROVING A ZONING TO OS (OPEN SPACE) FOR 2.47 ACRES BRUNSWICK COUNTY
PARCEL ID – 221KC001
   THAT WHEREAS, the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance, other
land use ordinances, and a zoning map that control land development within both
the City’s incorporated areas and within its extraterritorial area; and
   WHEREAS, in order to promote the public health, safety and general welfare
and to promote the best interest of the city and community, it is necessary for
the City Board of Aldermen from time to time to consider appropriate revisions,
modifications and additions to the city’s zoning map; and
   WHEREAS, the City Planner has prepared and submitted to the Planning Board a
favorable staff recommendation to zone parcel 221KC002 to Open Space (OS); and
   WHEREAS, the Planning Board has considered this matter and has recommended
that this proposed zoning be approved; and
   WHEREAS, pursuant to the NC General Statutes and city ordinances, a public
hearing, properly noticed, was held on February 9, 2017, before the Board of
Aldermen regarding this issue; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen hereby finds that this proposed zoning is
consistent with the Southport CAMA Land Use Plan; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that this amendment is
reasonable and in the public interest in that (i) the proposed zoning is
consistent with the CAMA Core Land Use Plan, (ii) the impact to the adjacent
property owners and the surrounding community is reasonable, and (iii) the
zoning of this parcel to open space will act as a buffer between the
residential Planned Unit Development (PUD) zoning district and the Highway
Commercial (HC) district;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that the
zoning request for city-owned parcel # 221KC001 and alteration to the Southport
Zoning Map is hereby approved and adopted.
This, the 9th day of February, 2017.         City of Southport
                     BY: /s/ J.V. Dove, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
   7.   Presentation of FY 2015-2016 Audit
   Mr. Menton Padgett of Berry, Padgett & Chandler CPA, presented the FY 2015-
2016 audit. (Audit available for review in the Clerk’s office, local library
and on the City of Southport web page.)
   8.   Consideration of Roof Repairs to Franklin Square Art Gallery
   City Manager McDuffie presented a budget amendment in the amount of $18,000
to replace shingles on the Franklin Square Art Gallery. He stated that an
assessment of the roof revealed it needed immediate attention. He pointed out
that $12,000 is the cost to replace the roof plus an additional $6,000 for
unseen damages.
   Responding to a query by Alderman Coring, Public Works Director Fox stated
that several leaks had been reported, multiple quotes were received and the
lowest bid was being presented to the Board.
   Noting that the city has many buildings that need to be evaluated, Alderman
Coring stated the need to prioritize projects.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Poole to postpone consideration
of roof repairs at Franklin Square Gallery Art Museum until FY 2017-2018 budget
deliberations. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   9.   Closed Session Pursuant to N.C.G.S. 143-318.11(a)(6) for Consideration
of a Personnel Matter. 
6:55 p.m.   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Powell to go into
Closed Session.       Unanimous vote; motion carried.
      The City Manager and City Clerk were excused.
8:03 p.m.   Alderman Adams motioned, second by Alderman Powell to come out of
Closed          Session. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Mayor Dove stated that no action was taken in Closed Session.
   Board consensus to hold a meeting on March 8, 5:30 p.m. for review of a
Classification and Pay Study with Personnel Policy. The meeting will be held at
the fire/rescue substation, 111 E. Nash Street.
   Alderman Poole suggested revisiting the greenway proposal. Board consensus
for staff to provide cost estimates of the project, determine corporate
participation, and provide a drawing of how the proposed greenway would look
and where light fixtures would be placed.
   Alderman Poole recommended a letter be sent to the Forrest Oaks Homeowners
Association to encourage them to repair a section of road referenced during
Public Comment.
Recess
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Powell to recess the meeting to
February 15, 6:00 p.m. at 1029 N. Howe Street. Unanimous vote; motion
carried.  
                        /s/ J.V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
MARCH 8, 2017
SPECIAL SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN          SPECIAL SESSION MINUTES
FIRE DEPARTMENT SUBSTATION MARCH 8, 2017
111 E. NASH STREET         SOUTHPORT, N.C.
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Karen Mosteller, Jim Powell,
            Todd Coring, Rick Pukenas, Nelson Adams
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   David Fox, Public Works Director
   Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
   Gary Smith, Police Chief
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   Randy Jones, Tourism Director
   Thomas Lloyd, Planner
   Mike Simmons, Police Lieutenant   
   Brannon Gray, Code Enforcement Officer
   Vicky Potter, Community Building Coordinator
   Cheryl Metcalf, Accounting Technician
A)   Call to Order – 5:30 p.m.
   Mayor Dove called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
   Salary Study
      Ms. Becky Veasey, The MAPS Group, addressed the Board. She stated the
study before the Board for consideration was comprised of updated
classifications, job descriptions, creates a pay plan, salary range and revised
the Personnel Policy. She added that the job descriptions were based on job
duties and no personalities or people.
      Ms. Veasey pointed out that the most useful ways to approach adoption of
the study is in three (3) pieces; Job Titles, Classification Plan and Personnel
Policy.
      Noting that staff had reviewed the study and provided their input to her,
Ms. Veasey made herself available to questions from the Board. Alderman Coring
asked about the recommendation to change the job title of the Human Resources
Technician to Payroll and Benefits Specialist. Ms. Veasey explained that the
City’s HR Technician does more than a typical HR Tech., and as the city does
not have an HR Director, the duties of which are spread between the City
Manager, Finance Director and the existing HR Technician. Ms. Veasey pointed
out that with new HR regulations, it is common to find communities adding an HR
Director once the number of employees reaches 65 – 80.
      Alderman Coring asked about the Finance Specialist position. Ms. Veasey
explained that the position is recommended for the current Tax Collector
position as tax collection only makes up approximately 5% of the job duties.
She added that the position would act as backup for the Finance Director.
      Alderman Adams asked if the city was far out of line with what employees
should be paid. Ms. Veasey indicated that Southport was better off than most of
her clients and the average employee would receive roughly a 4% increase if the
study is adopted. She emphasized that the pay plan would need market
adjustments in the future (COLA), and continued range adjustments so good
employees are not lost to other communities.
      Ms. Veasey stated that City staff had started a process of developing a
performance pay and policy. She indicated that once policies are in good draft
form, employees input will be sought, supervisor training will begin to gain
the fundamental skills of conducting performance reviews and employees will be
trained to participate and gain benefits of the system. Responding to Alderman
Mosteller, Ms. Veasey stated the supervisor training is scheduled for May and
she anticipates employee training to be the end of May, first of June, followed
by a pilot period.
      Ms. Veasey explained the benefits of simultaneously posting a job vacancy
internally and externally.
      Noting the recommendation to drop Personal Leave, Alderman Coring
supported keeping it. He added that Brunswick County provides Personal Leave
and it keeps abuse of sick leave down. Alderman Powell agreed. Ms. Veasey noted
that employees had recommended phasing out Personal Leave for new hires as new
employees would receive ten (10) vacation days the first year instead of the
current five (5) days. Alderman Adams stated his opinion that all employees
should be treated the same. Alderman Coring added that Personal Leave should be
kept as it is, a benefit, and taking it away could cause morale problems.
   Board consensus to keep Personal Leave.
      Alderman Powell questioned, if the study is adopted, how it would be
funded without having to raise taxes. City Manager McDuffie explained that
changes to medical insurance resulted in a savings to fund the study and
implement the results.
      Mayor Dove asked about how an employee would be affected by the
Performance Pay once they reached the top of their range. Ms. Veasey explained
that the performance pay allows for a good performer at the top of their range
to get an increase as a lump sum check.
      Alderman Coring supported the change to Political Activity. Ms. Veasey
stated that employees have a right to be involved politically and run for any
office except the Board of Aldermen. Alderman Powell recommended adding
language to prohibit an employee from serving on the Board of Adjustment.
      There was a discussion about Policies with Ms. Veasey stating the
recommendation to keep some policies separate from the Personnel Policy is due
to the frequent changes, i.e. social media, and the ability of the City Manager
to keep the policies updated.
      Alderman Powell pointed out that there are three (3) employees that work
for the Board and would not be under the Personnel Policy: City Clerk, City
Attorney, and City Manager. Ms. Veasey pointed out that City Clerks, especially
in small towns where they have more responsibility, are considered under the
authority and daily supervision of the City Manager. Alderman Adams questioned
if the Clerk should have other duties. Ms. Veasey stated that most cities,
until the population reaches 20,000, have Clerks doing more and it is a good
use of resources. Alderman Pukenas asked who would review the Clerk’s job
performance. Ms. Veasey responded that the Board and City Manager would review
the Clerk.
      Alderman Mosteller asked about when the size of Southport would warrant a
separate HR Officer. Ms. Veasey stated that 65 – 85 employees are the trend and
depends on the growth of the community and additional needed personnel to
provide services. Ms. Veasey pointed out that the current Human Resources
Technician has too much and also does payroll which is a Finance function.
      Alderman Coring asked how the job descriptions were developed. Ms. Veasey
reported that employees completed a position description questionnaire,
interviews were conducted with each employee, and supervisors and management
clarified duties and responsibilities.
      Alderman Adams asked what the cost of the study was. City Manager
McDuffie indicated that the cost was $25,000, including multiple levels of
training.
      The Board discussed compensatory time, overtime, standby/call out pay and
longevity. Alderman Adams stated his opinion that $100 per week for standby/
call out pay was insufficient.
      Alderman Poole stated her opinion that the study was very detailed, will
put together and reviewed well. Alderman Powell stated that the Board needs
more time to review the study.
      Alderman Coring pointed out the absence of a Police Corporal job
description and pay grade.
      Ms. Veasey pointed out that the best time to put the study results into
effect is at the beginning of the fiscal year.
   City Managers Contract
      Alderman Adams motioned, second by Alderman Coring, to take action on the
City Manager’s employment contract at the Thursday, March 9 regular meeting.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Personnel Matter
      City Manager McDuffie reported that an employee in Building Maintenance
would be out on a Family Medical Leave Act (FMLA) for at least 12 weeks and
potentially the employee may not come back. He stated that Building Maintenance
currently has two (2) positions and staff was going to ask for a third position
at budget time in order to keep the buildings better. He pointed out that one
custodian cannot handle the work load. City Manager McDuffie stated that staff
would like to advertise for a permanent position instead of a temporary in
order to get a better group of candidates. Alderman Adams asked for a cost
analysis of contracting the work for 12 weeks versus hiring an employee.
      City Manager McDuffie reported that in response to the Board’s February
4th direction, the city had contracted with Booth & Associates to obtain a
quote for the city to provide electrical service to the recently annexed
property at Long Beach Road Extension and NC 211, proposed development
Southport Crossing. He stated that Booth & Associates would be making a site
visit Tuesday, March 14, He added that Brunswick Electric Membership Corps.
(BEMC) is also interested in providing electric service to the area.
      Alderman Powell stated that Southport had gotten out of the electrical
business and did not need to get back into it. He added that the site was in
BEMC’s area and they have multiple back-ups in case of an outage. He pointed
out that the city does not need to hold up the developer of the property.
Alderman Powell talked about a 2003 agreement between the City of Southport and
BEMC for Operation & Maintenance (O&M) by BEMC and the city’s substantial
savings. He stated his relief that no one was killed when Southport had its own
electric crew. He discussed the service the city receives from BEMC and stated
his opinion that the expense for Southport to provide electric to Southport
Crossing would take 20 years to recoup and the $800,000 currently in the
electric fund should be designated to the current city customers.
       Alderman Adams agreed with Alderman Powell. He stated his opinion that
the first priority is to maintain what the city already has. He added that the
O&M contract would increase with additional service area.
      Responding to a query from Alderman Adams, City Manager McDuffie stated
that the cost for Booth & Associates to do a site visit and provide a report is
$3,800.
      Alderman Mosteller asked if ElectriCities could provide an analysis of
the cost for servicing the area. City Manager McDuffie stated that
ElectriCities had estimated build out at a cost of $700,000 with a $100,000
annual revenue. Additionally, he stated that ElectriCities had referred Booth &
Associates.
      City Manager McDuffie said that State Law states that any customer that
is inside the city limits, the city has a right to service unless on the day of
annexation, the Co-op (BEMC) had electric in the area within 300 feet. If the
customer is partially within the 300 foot, it becomes customer choice. City
Manager McDuffie pointed out that the contract the city has with BEMC
specifically says that any customer within the city of Southport city limits,
is the City’s customer.
      Alderman Mosteller emphasized the importance of getting an official cost
for providing the service in order to make an informed decision.
   Budget Amendment #2; Hurricane Matthew
      City Manager McDuffie provided the Board with Budget Amendment #2 for
unbudgeted expenses incurred during Hurricane Matthew. He stated that it is
anticipated that FEMA will be reimbursing the city but likely not before the
end of the current budget year. He stated that if the Budget Amendment is not
adopted, there will not be enough money for operating expenses in May/June.
Item to be considered during the March 9 regular meeting.
      Stating his concerns about the city’s fund balance and the potential
ramifications to the $19.8M loan for construction of a wastewater treatment
plant, Alderman Powell suggested looking at department budgets to find the
$300,000 for Hurricane Matthew expenses.
      Mayor Dove stated his goal to get the fund balance up to 30% over the
next 24 – 30 months.
   201 E. Moore Street Building
      Responding to a question from Mayor Dove, City Manager McDuffie explained
that the discrepancy between the low and high bids for the roof replacement on
the 201 E. Moore Street building was due to the unknown conditions that may
appear when the current roof is torn off.
   Greenway
      City Manager McDuffie reported that he anticipates people will again be
at the Board’s regular meeting to address the greenway access to Walmart. He
stated that he had spoken with Roy Pender, Landscape Architect, and had
received some useful ideas to enhance the greenway. He stated that Walmart had
indicated it would sign off on the greenway being built and may pay for
amenities, such as lighting, trash cans, benches, privacy fences, plantings and
entranceway if citizens would agree to it. City manager McDuffie indicated that
he is waiting to hear back from Walmart and preparation of a drawing to report
back to the Board. He stated that a public meeting may be considered.
      Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to adjourn the
meeting. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
   Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
MARCH 9, 2017
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING MARCH 9, 2017
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Karen Mosteller, Jim Powell,
            Todd Coring, Rick Pukenas, Nelson Adams
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   David Fox, Public Works Director
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   Gary Smith, Police Chief
   Randy Jones, Tourism Director
   Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   Thomas Lloyd, Planner
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Dove called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Pukenas welcomed everyone and Mayor Dove gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Pukenas led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Public Comment
   Mr. James Rankin, 4457 Willow Moss Way, spoke in opposition to the proposed
pedestrian pathway to Tidewater Plaza. He stated his opinion that it will put
the elderly and handicapped in jeopardy because the streets in Southport Way
are narrow, there are no sidewalks or street lights and the area is a known
hangout to tramps, homeless and drug users.  
   Mr. David Gallant, 1242 N. Caswell Court, VP, Cades Cove Homeowners’
Association, Inc., stated that a petition in opposition to the pathway and
submitted to the Board previously was not authorized by the HOA and the Cades
Cove residents and HOA fully endorse the project. He talked about the planned
phases of the greenway, the benefits, and the portion that will extend through
Cades Cove to the Brunswick County Senior Center in Smithville Crossing.
   Mr. Bill Thorpe, 421 Cades Trail, provided an informational package
explaining support for the project by Cades Cove (included as Attachment 1). He
expressed support for the proposed greenway to serve the greater good in the
communities.
   City Manager McDuffie brought the Board and the public up to speed on the
status of the greenway:
   ∙   The owners of Tidewater Plaza support the project but will not provide
any financial assistance.
   ∙   Walmart supports the greenway.
   ∙   Walmart will not invest in the pathway but may contribute towards
enhancements to the greenway with amenities such as benches, lighting, trash
cans, privacy fences, and entry ways if those amenities were desired by the
neighbors.
   City Manager McDuffie recommended a staff or board level meeting with
citizens to get their input on the amenities.
   As directed by the Board in February, City Manager McDuffie stated that he
had received a quote from a landscape architect for a drawing of the project.
He added that he is pursuing additional quotes and may consider doing the
drawing in house.
E)   Approval of Agenda
   Mayor Dove requested moving Consent Agenda item #5, Budget Amendment #2, to
the regular agenda, adding consideration of the City Manager’s employment
contract and consideration of the Salary Study to the agenda.
   Alderman Coring requested consideration of appointment of a committee member
to the Fire Fee Budget Committee.
   Alderman Powell asked for Consent Agenda item #3 to be moved to the regular
agenda.
    Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to approve the agenda
as amended.  Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Dove stated, “If any member of the Board knows of
any conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with
respect to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
F)   Announcements
   Mayor Dove commended the Beautification Committee and all involved in the
March 4th Southport Day of Service. He pointed out that 80 people were involved
in beautifying the city.
   Mayor Dove announced that there was a tremendous outpouring at the March 3rd
Spring Art Show at Franklin Square Art Gallery.
   Mayor Dove announced that Friendship Baptist Church would be celebrating 18
years of providing spiritual service on Sunday, March 12.
   Mayor Dove stated that the annual Cancer Society “Fighting with Style”
fashion show would be held at the Community Building on Thursday, March 16, 6:
30 p.m.
   Mayor Dove announced that he would hold a Mayor’s Day, Thursday, March 16,
4:00 – 5:30 p.m. at the fire/rescue substation, 111 E. Nash Street.
SPECIAL RECOGNITION
   Mayor Dove read and presented a resolution supporting the John Smith
Cemetery.
City of Southport
RESOLUTION IN SUPPORT OF
THE JOHN SMITH CEMETERY
Whereas, the John N Smith Cemetery is an African American cemetery , created in
the 1870’s and located on Leonard Street in the City of Southport and consists
of 3.6 surveyed acres, and
Whereas, the John N Smith Cemetery Restoration and Preservation, Inc. is an
established non-profit, North Carolina corporation and has been granted 501c3
status by the IRS, and it plans to pursue designation of the Cemetery on the
National Register of Historic Places, and
Whereas, this Cemetery can stand as a testament to the relevant role African
American citizens have played in the development of Southport and it can
nurture a living legacy and honored the memory of African American history
while promoting public awareness thereof, and
Whereas, this Cemetery should be maintained and sustained in safe and sound
condition, and
Whereas, improvements to the Cemetery, including construction of a perimeter
fence, will help to advance the Cemetery’s public visibility , its physical
integrity, prevent vandalism, provide for pedestrian safety and discourage
inappropriate vehicle access;
Be it hereby resolved that the Southport Board of Aldermen supports the
activities of John N Smith Cemetery Restoration and Preservation, Inc. to
enhance, maintain and preserve the John N Smith Cemetery by means of a
perimeter fence and other improvements, and
Be it further resolved that the City recognizes the Cemetery for its historical
significance as a distinguishable Southport landmark and community asset.
                     By: /s/ J.V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to approve the
Resolution In Support of the John Smith Cemetery. Unanimous vote; motion
carried.
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Poole to approve the consent
agenda.   Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Minutes for February 4, 2017 Retreat; Minutes of February 9 Regular Meeting –
approved
2.   Friends of the North Carolina Maritime Museum at Southport; Use of Fort
Johnston Garrison Lawn    on Sunday, June 4, 2017 – approved
3.   Award Contract for 201 E. Moore Street Roof – item moved to regular agenda
4.   Award of Amended Contract for Auditing Services with Berry, Padgett &
Chandler, PLLC    approved
5.   Budget Amendment #2; Hurricane Matthew Expenses – item moved to regular
agenda
6.   Sewer & Water Allocation Fee - approved    
AGENDA
   7.   Shoreline Stabilization 
   Noting that a “band aid” had been put on the damage sustained during
Hurricane Matthew, Building Inspector, B. Wayne Strickland, reported that he
had been in contact with Jim McKee Site Manager, Brunswick Town/Fort Anderson,
regarding their method of shoreline stabilization that has been proven to
revitalize the shoreline, promote growth of oysters and improve the health of
the river. He introduced Mr. Randy Boyd with Atlantic Reefmaker.
   Mr. Randy Boyd, Atlantic Reefmaker, gave an abbreviated overview of his
involvement with the Brunswick Town stabilization project. He noted that the
Brunswick Town shoreline is along a shipping channel on the Cape Fear River
with large wave action. Noting that Southport’s greatest asset is the
waterfront, Mr. Boyd pointed out that the rip rap the city has along its
shoreline would float away with a long duration storm. A pictorial packet of
Atlantic Reefmaker projects was provided (on file in the Clerk’s office).
   Mr. Dave Hancock, Atlantic Reefmaker, addressed the Board. He stated that he
had been in the industry 40 years. He talked about Atlantic Reefmarker’s team
work on waterfront communities’ redevelopment and shoreline protection. He
stated that Atlantic Reefmaker designs around the community needs and wants
while taking into consideration what happens during a major storm. He said
Atlantic Reefmaker can offer a system along with amenities, i.e., boardwalks,
piers, esplanades, easy waterfront access while providing protection for
erosion. He stated that Atlantic Reefmaker understands the aspects of storm
water runoff, their systems are environmentally friendly, attract fish life,
and the materials are composites that do not breakdown over time. He offered to
give an alternate presentation on projects Atlantic Reefmaker is working on.
   Responding to a query by Alderman Powell, Mr. Hancock indicated the
Brunswick Town project is expected to start within a month and May would be a
good time to visit the site.
   8.   Public Hearing; Voluntary Annexation 1159 N. Caswell Avenue
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Poole to open Public Hearing.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Thanking the Board for consideration of the annexation request, Mr. Patrick
Lynch, owner, stated that he hopes to build a home on the property and has
spoken with another property owner in the area who plans to go through the
annexation process.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Adams to close Public Hearing.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   9.   Consideration of Annexation
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Powell to approve the
annexation ordinance. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
AN ORDINANCE TO EXTEND THE CORPORATE LIMITS OF THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT, NORTH
CAROLINA
   WHEREAS, the City of Southport has been petitioned under G.S.160A-31 to
annex the area described below; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen has by resolution directed the City Clerk to
investigate the sufficiency of the petition; and
   WHEREAS, the City Clerk has certified the sufficiency of the petition and a
public hearing on the question of this annexation was held at the Southport
Community Building at 6:00 p.m. on March 9, 2017, after due notice by
publication on February 22, 2017; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen finds that the petition meets the
requirements of G.S. 160A-31;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport, North Carolina that:
   Section 1. By virtue of the authority granted by G.S. 160A-31, the following
described territory is hereby annexed and made part of the City of Southport as
of March 9, 2017:
   BEGINNING at a new iron pipe in the Western right of way of Caswell Avenue,
which said iron pipe is located South 22 degrees 52 minutes 19 seconds East 200
feet from the intersection of the Western right of way of Caswell Avenue and
the Southern right of way of 13 th Street, City of Southport. From said point
of beginning South 22 degrees 52 minutes 19 seconds East with the Western
right-of-way of Caswell Avenue 50 feet to a new iron pipe; runs thence South 67
degrees 07 minutes 41 seconds West 122.77 feet to a new iron pipe; Runs thence
North 22 degrees 52 minutes 19 seconds West 50 feet to a new iron pipe; runs
thence North 67 degrees 07 minutes 41 seconds East 122.77 feet to the place end
point of beginning and being Lot 15, Block 9 of Southport Heights as per plat
of survey for Patrick S. Lynch and Cheryl L. Serra by Tide Water Land
Surveying, dated May 13, 2015.
   Section 2. Upon and after March 9, 2017, the above described territory and
its citizens and property shall be subject to all debts, laws, ordinances and
regulations in force in the City of Southport and shall be entitled to the same
privileges and benefits as other parts of the City of Southport. Said territory
shall be subject to municipal taxes according to G.S. 160A-58.10.
   Section 3. The Mayor of the City of Southport shall cause to be recorded in
the office of the Register of Deeds of Brunswick County, and in the office of
the Secretary of State at Raleigh, North Carolina, an accurate map of the
annexed territory, described in Section 1 above, together with a duly certified
copy of this ordinance. Such a map shall also be delivered to the County Board
of Elections, as required by G.S. 163-288.1.
Adopted this the 9th day of March, 2017.      City of Southport
                     /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk   
   10.   Public Hearing; Zoning Re-Classification for Eight (8) Parcels behind
the Howe    Street Corridor from Split Zonings Residential/Business District/
Central Business District
   City Planner Lloyd explained the proposed zoning re-classifications. He
stated that an effort to rezone the first portion of properties behind the Howe
Street Corridor was initiated on December 19, 2016 to correct mistakenly split
zoned commercial and residential properties. He reported that the zoning map
amendment was reviewed by the Planning Board and the Board found the amendment
consistent with the CAMA Core Land Use Plan and recommends that the Board of
Aldermen approves the map amendment.
   Responding to Alderman Adams, City Planner Lloyd indicated that there were
no objections from property owners who had been contacted via mail and
telephone.
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to open the Public
Hearing. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   No one from the public spoke
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas close the Public
Hearing. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   11.   Consideration of Zonings Ordinances
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to approve the Zoning
Ordinances as recommended by the Planning Board.  Unanimous vote; motion
carried.
ORDINANCE APPROVING A ZONING MAP AMENDMENT REZONING THREE PARCELS FROM SPLIT
ZONED R-10, CBD TO R-10
   THAT WHEREAS, the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance, other
land use ordinances, and a zoning map that control land development within both
the City’s incorporated areas and within its extraterritorial area; and
   WHEREAS, in order to promote the public health, safety and general welfare
and to promote the best interest of the city and community, it is necessary for
the City Board of Aldermen from time to time to consider appropriate revisions,
modifications and additions to the city’s zoning map; and
   WHEREAS, the City Planner has prepared and submitted to the Planning Board a
favorable staff recommendation to rezone parcels 237LG006, 237LG046, and
237LG042 from R-10, CBD to R-10; and
   WHEREAS, the Planning Board has considered this matter and has recommended
that this proposed zoning be approved; and
   WHEREAS, pursuant to the NC General Statutes and city ordinances, a public
hearing, properly noticed, was held on March 9, 2017, before the Board of
Aldermen regarding this issue; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen hereby finds that the proposed zoning map
amendment is consistent with the Southport CAMA Land Use Plan; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that this zoning map amendment
is reasonable and in the public interest in that (i) the proposed rezoning of
the above properties preserves residential areas, (ii) the proposed rezoning of
the above properties resolves the issue of split zoning, (iii) and the impact
to the adjacent property owners and the surrounding community is reasonable;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Southport Board of Aldermen
that The Official Zoning Map of the City of Southport, an element of the
Unified Development Ordinance of the City, is amended by changing the zoning
classification of the below-described properties from a split zoning of R-10,
CBD to R-10: Tax Parcel ID Numbers of properties to be rezoned: 237LG006,
237LG046, and 237LG042.
This ordinance shall be effective upon its adoption, and the Official Zoning
Map of the City of Southport shall be revised accordingly.
This, the 9th day of March, 2017            City of Southport
                     BY: /s/ J.V. Dove, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
ORDINANCE APPROVING A ZONING MAP AMENDMENT REZONING TWO PARCELS FROM BD TO R-10
   THAT WHEREAS, the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance, other
land use ordinances, and a zoning map that control land development within both
the City’s incorporated areas and within its extraterritorial area; and
   WHEREAS, in order to promote the public health, safety and general welfare
and to promote the best interest of the city and community, it is necessary for
the City Board of Aldermen from time to time to consider appropriate revisions,
modifications and additions to the city’s zoning map; and
   WHEREAS, the City Planner has prepared and submitted to the Planning Board a
favorable staff recommendation to rezone parcels 237LD040 and 237LD041 from BD
to R-10; and
   WHEREAS, the Planning Board has considered this matter and has recommended
that this proposed zoning be approved; and
   WHEREAS, pursuant to the NC General Statutes and city ordinances, a public
hearing, properly noticed, was held on March 9, 2017, before the Board of
Aldermen regarding this issue; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen hereby finds that the proposed zoning map
amendment is consistent with the Southport CAMA Land Use Plan; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that this zoning map amendment
is reasonable and in the public interest in that (i) the proposed rezoning of
the above properties preserves residential areas, (ii) the proposed rezoning of
the above properties resolves non-conforming uses, (iii) and the impact to the
adjacent property owners and the surrounding community is reasonable;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Southport Board of Aldermen
that The Official Zoning Map of the City of Southport, an element of the
Unified Development Ordinance of the City, is amended by changing the zoning
classification of the below-described properties from BD to R-10:
Tax Parcel ID Numbers of properties to be rezoned: 237LD040 and 237LD041
This ordinance shall be effective upon its adoption, and the Official Zoning
Map of the City of Southport shall be revised accordingly.
This, the 9th day of March, 2017            City of Southport
                     BY: /s/ J.V. Dove, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
ORDINANCE APPROVING A ZONING MAP AMENDMENT REZONING TWO PARCELS FROM SPLIT
ZONED R-10, BD TO BD
   THAT WHEREAS, the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance, other
land use ordinances, and a zoning map that control land development within both
the City’s incorporated areas and within its extraterritorial area; and
   WHEREAS, in order to promote the public health, safety and general welfare
and to promote the best interest of the city and community, it is necessary for
the City Board of Aldermen from time to time to consider appropriate revisions,
modifications and additions to the city’s zoning map; and
   WHEREAS, the City Planner has prepared and submitted to the Planning Board a
favorable staff recommendation to rezone parcels 237LD043 and 237LD047 from R-
10, BD to BD; and
   WHEREAS, the Planning Board has considered this matter and has recommended
that this proposed zoning be approved; and
   WHEREAS, pursuant to the NC General Statutes and city ordinances, a public
hearing, properly noticed, was held on March 9, 2017, before the Board of
Aldermen regarding this issue; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen hereby finds that the proposed zoning map
amendment is consistent with the Southport CAMA Land Use Plan; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that this zoning map amendment
is reasonable and in the public interest in that (i) the proposed rezoning of
the above properties preserves existing commercial areas, (ii) the proposed
rezoning of the above properties resolves the issue of split zoning, (iii) and
the impact to the adjacent property owners and the surrounding community is
reasonable;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Southport Board of Aldermen
that The Official Zoning Map of the City of Southport, an element of the
Unified Development Ordinance of the City, is amended by changing the zoning
classification of the below-described properties from a split zoning of R-10,
BD to BD:
Tax Parcel ID Numbers of properties to be rezoned: 237LD043 and 237LD047
This ordinance shall be effective upon its adoption, and the Official Zoning
Map of the City of Southport shall be revised accordingly.
This, the 9th day of March, 2017            City of Southport
                     BY: /s/ J.V. Dove, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
ORDINANCE APPROVING A ZONING MAP AMENDMENT REZONING ONE PARCEL FROM SPLIT ZONED
R-10, BD TO R-10
   THAT WHEREAS, the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance, other
land use ordinances, and a zoning map that control land development within both
the City’s incorporated areas and within its extraterritorial area; and
   WHEREAS, in order to promote the public health, safety and general welfare
and to promote the best interest of the city and community, it is necessary for
the City Board of Aldermen from time to time to consider appropriate revisions,
modifications and additions to the city’s zoning map; and
   WHEREAS, the City Planner has prepared and submitted to the Planning Board a
favorable staff recommendation to rezone parcel 237LD039 from R-10, BD to R-10;
and
   WHEREAS, the Planning Board has considered this matter and has recommended
that this proposed zoning be approved; and
   WHEREAS, pursuant to the NC General Statutes and city ordinances, a public
hearing, properly noticed, was held on March 9, 2017, before the Board of
Aldermen regarding this issue; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen hereby finds that the proposed zoning map
amendment is consistent with the Southport CAMA Land Use Plan; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that this zoning map amendment
is reasonable and in the public interest in that (i) the proposed rezoning of
the above properties preserves existing residential areas, (ii) the proposed
rezoning of the above properties resolves the issue of split zoning, (iii) and
the impact to the adjacent property owners and the surrounding community is
reasonable;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Southport Board of Aldermen
that The Official Zoning Map of the City of Southport, an element of the
Unified Development Ordinance of the City, is amended by changing the zoning
classification of the below-described properties from a split zoning of R-10,
BD to R-10:
Tax Parcel ID Numbers of properties to be rezoned: 237LD039
This ordinance shall be effective upon its adoption, and the Official Zoning
Map of the City of Southport shall be revised accordingly.
This, the 9th day of March, 2017            City of Southport
                     BY: /s/ J.V. Dove, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
   12.   Appointment to Board of Adjustment
   Alderman Poole recommended Mr. David Gale, ETJ alternate to an ETJ full
seat. She also recommended Ms. Lisa Fosbury, City alternate to a full city
seat.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to appoint Mr. Gale
and Ms. Fosbury as recommended by Alderman Poole. Unanimous vote; motion
carried
   13.   Sewer Plant Construction Method
   City Manager McDuffie reported that the city was approved for a subsidized
loan for construction of a wastewater treatment plant. He stated he and the
Mayor had spent time with people from the State regarding a traditional bid
build process vs. a design/build process. Noting the size of the project, City
Manager McDuffie asked for guidance and suggested having a workshop.
   Alderman Powell discussed the design build method and the benefits of
obtaining qualifications, the project gets completed faster and the city is not
required to accept the low bid.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to use Design/Build for
construction of a wastewater treatment facility.
   Discussion
   Alderman Mosteller questioned if the process was approved by the grant
entity and would allow the Board to compare using the County for solid waste
services. City Manager McDuffie stated the design build process allows the city
a better sense of direction, saves money and helps provide clear information.
He noted that the project would come before the Board many times in the next
couple years while all aspects and options are considered.
   Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   14.   Setting Date for Workshop  
   The Board set Monday, April 3, 5:00 p.m. for a workshop to further discuss
the wastewater treatment plant project and consider uses for the 2nd floor of
City Hall.
   15.   Budget Amendment # 2; Hurricane Matthew Expenses
   City Manager McDuffie explained that Budget Amendment #2 is for expenses
incurred during preparation for Hurricane Matthew, overtime of personnel, clean
up and rip rap installation along the waterfront in front of Ft. Johnston. He
pointed out that if the approximately $125,000 of the budget amendment was not
adopted, general operating expenses could not be covered to the end of the
year.
   City Manager McDuffie stated that $180,000 in the budget amendment was for
the estimated cost to repair the Bay Street CAMA water access, waterfront
bulkhead and city boat dock. He added that the repairs have been submitted to
FEMA and it is anticipated FEMA will reimburse the expenditure. He noted that
tourist and hurricane seasons are approaching and it would be detrimental not
to have the waterfront bulkhead repaired before another storm season.
   Mayor Dove commented that the waterfront is Southport’s calling card and
needs to be ready for tourist season. He added that it does not look good with
cones everywhere and busted up sidewalks.
   Alderman Powell expressed concerns that FEMA had not provided a guarantee of
reimbursement nor how much they would reimburse. He recommended putting a
hiatus on all outside spending. He argued that continued fund balance spending
would jeopardize the loan for construction of a wastewater treatment plant.
   Mayor Dove pointed out that the General Fund is for the unexpected expenses
from storms.
   City Manager McDuffie stated that he would contact FEMA and ask for a time
line.
   Alderman Mosteller pointed out that the $125,000 had already been spent.
   Alderman Adams agreed with Alderman Powell to cut spending until there is a
guarantee from FEMA.
   Noting that Southport specifically had extra money in the general fund
because it is a waterfront town, Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman
Mosteller to approve the Budget Amendment as written, minus the $180,000 line
item.
   Discussion
   While endorsing Alderman Powell’s position, Alderman Adams encouraged
Alderman Powell to support the budget amendment for $125,000, noting that the
money had to be spent.
   Alderman Powell stated his opinion that the money could be found elsewhere
in the budget.
   Aye:   Aldermen Poole, Mosteller, Pukenas, Adams
   Nay:   Aldermen Powell, Coring
   Motion Carried 4 – 2
16.   Consideration of City Manager’s Contract
Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to approve the contract.
Aye:   Aldermen Poole, Mosteller, Pukenas
Nay:   Aldermen Powell, Coring, Adams
Aye:   Mayor Dove
Motion Carried 4 – 3
RECESS – 7:25
RESUME SESSION – 7:31
   17.   Salary Study
   City Manager McDuffie talked about the funding, realized from health care
savings, for the salary study as presented February 4 to the Board. He
suggested continued review of the proposed Personnel Policy after the revisions
requested March 8 are incorporated.
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to approve the job
descriptions as presented and the salary study, effective March 14, 2017.
   Discussion
   Alderman Powell stated his impression that the Board was not satisfied with
the study and he stated that he did not go along with the recommendations in
the Personnel Policy. He expressed his views that employees in Category 9 are
underpaid in the recommended salary study and he would not endorse it until the
discrepancy was corrected. Additionally, he pointed out that the organizational
chart, chain of command was incorrect.
   Alderman Adams suggested a stipulation in the motion to endorse the study
when the particular issues expressed by Alderman Powell were straightened out
and implement the salary results retroactive to March 14. Alderman Adams
emphasized the need to let employees know the Board supports them.
   Stating his support for the study, Alderman Coring indicated he was not in a
position to vote on the study after just having a workshop the previous night.
He contended that he did not have all the facts, there was a missing job
description and pay scales.
   Alderman Coring raised a question about travel & training monies being used
to pay for the study. Finance Director Trexler could not attend the meeting and
City Manager McDuffie indicated he did not have the specifics about budget line
item transfers.
   Mayor Dove stated his support for giving the proposed pay increases.
   Alderman Adams stated his opinion that the original nearly $100,000 savings
could have been distributed to all employees.
   Stating that there was a lot of good in the study, such as the much needed
job descriptions, Alderman Coring repeated that he was not ready to take action
on it. He suggested a workshop or consideration at the next regular Board
meeting.
   Aye:   Aldermen Poole, Mosteller, Pukenas
   Nay:   Aldermen Powell, Coring, Adams
   Nay:   Mayor Dove
   Motion Failed 4 – 3
   18.   Community Member on Fire Fee Committee
   Chief Drew explained that the County Commissioners put in legislation to
redo the fire fee schedules for the entire county and there is a committee that
oversees the fees. He stated that the committee was comprised of himself, Mayor
Dove, County Fire Marshal, a County Commissioner and an appointee from
Southport.
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Powell to appoint Paul Fisher
to the Community Fire Fee Budget Committee. Unanimous vote; motion carried.    
   19.   Roof on 201 Building
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Poole to accept the low bid
with Paragon Building Corp for $144,677.00 and set a cap not to exceed what was
originally budgeted.
   Discussion
   Alderman Pukenas suggested a more precise cap.
   Alderman Powell amended the motion, second by Alderman Poole to accept the
bid for the 201 roofing project with a 25% overage cap. Unanimous vote; motion
carried.
   20.   88 Acres Electric Service
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to allow Brunswick
Electric Membership Corp. (BEMC) to service the 88 acres.
   Discussion
   Alderman Mosteller countered that the Board did not have the data on the
value of the cost for the city to provide the service in order to make a
decision.
   Alderman Poole pointed out that it is a long range plan that could impact
the city’s future.
   Alderman Powell contended that the city did not have the money which he
estimated would be $2 – 2.5 million. He pointed out that BEMC has four (4) ways
to service the area while the city would only have one.
   Alderman Pukenas stated that the developer needed a decision on the issue or
he risked losing commercial customers.
   Alderman Mosteller stated her support for making a decision once a cost/
benefit analysis is provided.
   Alderman Adams conceded Alderman Mosteller’s position that it would be
proper and transparent to obtain all the data in order to make a prudent
decision.
   City Manager McDuffie indicated that Booth & Associates were scheduled to
make a site visit Tuesday, March 14 and provide a report within two to three
weeks. He stated that a dollar amount to build the system to the property would
be provided by Booth & Associates. He added that Electricities calculated the
return on investment at roughly $100,000 annually.
   Alderman Powell repeated his opinion that the cost to provide the service
would be a large figure and the city’s underground service in the area had not
had any improvements in over 10 years and would incur additional expense.
   Responding to Mayor Dove, City Manager McDuffie explained that there was
$800,000 in the electric fund allocated for underground projects that could be
used to fund the project.
   Aye:   Aldermen Powell & Pukenas
   Nay:   Aldermen Poole, Adams, Mosteller, Coring
   Motion failed 4 – 2
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to adjourn. Unanimous
vote; motion carried.
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
APRIL 3, 2017
SPECIAL SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN   SPECIAL SESSION MINUTES
FIRE STATION        APRIL 3, 2017
1011 N. HOWE STREET SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Karen Mosteller, Jim Powell, Todd
Coring, Rick Pukenas, Nelson Adams
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
   Finance Director, Melanie Trexler
   David Fox, Public Works Director
   Randy Jones, Tourism Director
   Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   Thomas Lloyd, Planner
   Tyler Johnson, Deputy Fire Chief
   Mike Simmons, Police Sergeant
   Cheryl Metcalf, Accounting Technician
A)   Call to Order – 5:00 p.m.
Mayor Dove called the meeting to order at 5:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Mosteller welcomed everyone and Mayor Dove gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Mosteller led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Public Comment
   Mr. Pat Dane, 801 N. Caswell Avenue, spoke to the Board about the condition
of the Lord Street Gym. He stated his opinion that the structure is collapsing,
is an eyesore, poses a risk to people and should be demolished.
E)   Approval of Agenda
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Powell to approve the agenda.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Dove stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
F)   Announcements
   Mayor Dove announced that one of Southport’s favorite sons, Quinton Antoine
McCracken, who played baseball for South Brunswick High School and Duke
University, will be inducted into the Wilmington Sports Hall of Fame. Mayor
Dove stated that the City will recognize Quinton with a proclamation at a
Saturday April 29th event on the Ft. Johnston Garrison lawn.
   Mayor Dove announced that he would hold a Mayor’s Day, Thursday, April 20,
4:00 – 5:30 p.m. at the fire/rescue substation, 111 E. Nash Street.
AGENDA
   1.   Wastewater Treatment Plant 
   City Manager McDuffie reported to the Board that since Oak Island had not
made a decision about selling sewer capacity, Brunswick County could not
guarantee that they would be able to sell sewer capacity to Southport. He added
that the County did say that they could sell Southport capacity if the county
treatment plant was expanded at a cost of $34M.
   City Manager McDuffie stated that the State has said that Southport could
use the $19.8M loan approved earlier in the year and apply for an additional
$14.3M by application deadline of April 28.
   City Manager McDuffie directed the Board to a spreadsheet provided in the
agenda packet. He pointed out that costs for customers would increase
regardless of which option the city pursued. He stated that the Rate Review
Committee had met, will meet again and will continue their due diligence and
make a recommendation to the Board.
   City Manager McDuffie noted that the City’s wastewater capacity lease with
the County expires in January 2019 which requires a decision be made by the
Board. He outlined the options:
Apply for an additional State loan in order to invest in the County plant
expansion
If unable to obtain loan from the State, borrow $14.3M on the open market at an
estimated 4% interest rate
Southport build its own treatment plant
   County advantage:      The County would manage and the City’s sewer district
would be                guaranteed
   City plant advantage:      Southport would own and operate its own plant.
Construction               estimated at $19.8M
   City plant disadvantage:   Southport sewer district would not be guaranteed
   Responding to Mayor Dove, Attorney Isenberg stated that as long as the City
purchases capacity from the County, city and county sewer districts would
remain in effect. If the City builds its own plant, that agreement would stop.
   Alderman Powell & Pukenas disagreed with the estimated cost per month per
customer as provided in the agenda packet information. Alderman Powell stated
his belief that the cost would be in the range of $60 per month per customer.
   Alderman Adams stated his opinion that it would be better for the city to be
independent instead of dependent on the County.
   Responding to a query by Mayor Dove, City Manager McDuffie stated that he
and Public Works Director Fox, were licensed to operate a wastewater treatment
plant. He added that personnel would have to be hired as he and Director Fox
would not have time to operate a plant and do their current jobs.
   Alderman Powell noted that in the past the city had contracted operation of
the wastewater treatment plant.
   Alderman Adams stated his support for hiring an operator or sending a
current employee to school to become licensed.
   Pointing out that the city had land already paid for and filtration basins
in place, Alderman Pukenas stated his support for constructing the city’s own
plant.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to proceed with
development of the city’s own wastewater treatment plant.
   Discussion
   Alderman Mosteller asked how the sewer territory could affect the city.
   City Manager McDuffie explained that if both the County and City could serve
a new property, there would be no reason for the property to annex into the
city limits.
   Responding to a query by Alderman Mosteller, City Manager McDuffie talked
about the fixed costs to operate a million gallon wastewater treatment plant,
potential growth from the current 2,800 customers, and the State requirement to
build in extra capacity. He added that the lines will be built big enough for
1.5M capacity.
   Vote: Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   City Manager McDuffie proposed contracting with Phil Norris, Norris &
Tunstall Engineering, to manage the project on behalf of the city. Alderman
Powell agreed.
   Alderman Adams endorsed using Phil Norris to manage the project for the city
with a stipulation that Alderman Powell serve as the liaison for the city.
   City Manager McDuffie also proposed contracting with Emily Miller,
President, McAdams & Associates, LLC, who wrote and obtained the grant for the
city, to administer the grant, do all paperwork and submit documentation to the
State as required. City Manager McDuffie pointed out that her fee for the two
year project would be covered in the $19.8M.
   City Manager McDuffie estimated approximately $350,000 for the services of
Phil Norris and his staff for two years, 20 hours a week at $175 per hour.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to proceed with hiring
Phil Norris and Emily Miller for administration of the project and grant
documentation. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   2.   Classification & Pay Study
   Citing the provided budget transfer in the Aldermen’s agenda packet, City
Manager McDuffie explained that the funding to implement the study was realized
through health care savings. He suggested making pay adjustments effective with
the March 28th pay period, if the Board adopted the pay study. He added that a
minimum salary could be included to address concerns previously expressed by
Alderman Powell.
   Alderman Powell stated his opinion that those employees in classification 11
should be paid at a classification of 13.
   Alderman Mosteller pointed out that each classification was made up of
ranges that allow for pay increases with employee performance.
   Agreeing with Alderman Mosteller, Alderman Poole motioned, second by
Alderman Pukenas to adopt the classifications and make effective March 28.
   Discussion
   Stating his appreciation for the study and the professionalism, Alderman
Adams suggested making the pay changes retroactive back farther than March 28,
noting that employees had waited a long time.
   Aye:   Aldermen Poole, Pukenas, Mosteller
   Nay:   Aldermen Powell, Adams, Coring
   Aye:   Mayor Dove
   Motion passed 4-3
   3.   Lord Street Gym
   Mayor Dove announced that he and the City Manager had met with Dr. Susanne
Adams, President, Brunswick Community College (BCC). He pointed out that
funding to assist with fulfilling the contract terms between the City and BCC
were not realized by private sector fundraising.
   Referring to an outline of notes prepared by Alderman Mosteller, of events
to date regarding the Lord Street Gym, Mayor Dove recommended providing the
notes in the form of a letter to BCC (notes on file in the Clerk’s office.)
   Interpreting that a letter had already been submitted to BCC, Alderman Adams
took offense and stated that since he had spearheaded the project, the letter
should have come to him. He stated his realization that the project was not
going to happen and repeated he did not appreciate the handling of the
situation.
   Mayor Dove assured the Board that no letter had been sent to BCC
   Alderman Coring questioned if the City would be obligated to demolish the
structure and what that cost would be.
   Attorney Isenberg pointed out that there were outstanding issues that needed
to be resolved with BCC.
   City Manager McDuffie was directed to arrange another meeting with BCC
BREAK – 7:06
RETURN TO SESSION – 7:14
   4. a.   Budgeting
   Citing a map in the Board agenda packet depicting where electric can be run,
City Manager McDuffie reported that Booth & Associates, LLC had walked the
property, determined the amount of electricity needed and provided a cost
estimate to extend Southport electric service to the 88 acre tract at NC211 &
Long Beach Road Extension. He advised the Board that it was their decision to
provide electric service to the newly annexed area or let Brunswick Electric
Membership Corp. (BEMC) serve it.
   Alderman Powell maintained that if the city provided electric, the
development would have only one line of service to it versus multiple
connections available with BEMC.
   City Manager McDuffie stated that Southport electric service currently runs
to a building behind the Verizon Store on NC 211.
   Alderman Mosteller read into the record the following:
   “Part of being a resident of Southport is not only paying property taxes to
support our city services but also participating in our city owned water/sewer
and electric services as well. As Southport grows, our ability to deliver
services, more cost effectively, expands.
   In the case of our right to serve the electric service to the 88 acres
project…the right to serve exists for a reason. As new members of the
community, commercial and residential property owners should expect to have
access to the same services that the rest of Southport enjoys. Whether it’s
parks and rec, water/sewer, electric, fire, police.
   And revenue generated by their participation helps to share the cost of
these city services. As we increase the economy of scale, we have a larger base
to share expenses.
   If we restrict the growth of our utility services by giving away our right
to service a portion of our city, then we are placing the responsibility and
benefits of owning and operating our electrical services on only a portion of
our citizens… what’s the criteria for making this judgment call? How do we say
to some citizens, you are responsible for Southport’s electrical utility
services …How do we say to other Southport citizens, we are not going to
provide the same services for you that we provide for other citizens of
Southport?
   For those who qualify, Southport’s load management rate is the lowest priced
electricity in Brunswick County. How do we provide the opportunity to
participate in load management for some citizens and not all our citizens?
The details in the engineering report, done by Booth and Associates, a well
respected electrical engineering firm, is in line with the first estimate we
received. It seems to me looking at the numbers, we can afford to provide the
part of Southport that we refer to as the 88 acres electrical service.
   Just as an example, our Rivermist neighborhood is serviced by Brunswick
Electric. That’s 350 homes in Southport that do not participate in our utility
program.
   Currently, Southport services approximately 2800 customers. We would have
12% more customers if we had exercised our right to serve in Rivermist. Adding
over $100,000 in revenue annually to our electric utility budget.
   I would say, we can’t afford not to provide the electrical service. The
engineer’s total cost analysis including a 10% contingency fund, is $650,000.
The anticipated annual revenue once the project is built out is $100,000. Once
it’s up and running, that’s a 15% annual return on our investment. And
Southport’s electrical utility grows, our economy of scale increases and if in
the future we decide to get out of the electric business, we will have more
assets to offer a potential buyer.
   Since our electric fund is an enterprise fund…and we can only spend the
revenue within this fund on electric…it does not impact our general fund.
The electric fund budget for this year is $7,953, 000
In addition, as of February 2017…We have $ 3, 821,000 in reserves (for
emergencies)
We have $800,000 in this year’s budget that has not been spent…$350,000 of this
money has been budgeted for the replacement of the electrical line on the old
ferry road.
So we have $450,000 immediately available. And due to a rate decrease, we are
anticipating a savings of approximately $130,000. This is annual savings for
the next three years.
Even if we borrowed the whole amount from a bank …$650,000 at 4.5% amortized
over a 20 year period without a pre-payment penalty, our return on investment
would be 7.5% annually once it’s built out. Debt service would be $50,000 a
year and revenue would be $50,000.
   Our decision tonight may also determine who provides future electrical
service to any additional development adjacent to the 88 acres and Rivermist.
   Expanding our infrastructure is investing in our future. For long term
benefits … to help keep rates lower and still provide adequate revenues to meet
the needs of operating our electrical service.
   If this board chooses to give our right to serve to BEMC and the estimated
value once it’s up and running the expected revenue is approximately $100,000
annually. It’s valuable…..would it be reasonable to expect some kind of
compensation. We are just giving it away?
   Booth and Associates has been in business since 1960 as a leading
engineering consulting firm. They are who ElectriCities uses for their
projects. Booth and Associates specializes in all aspects of overhead and
underground distribution design for over fifty years.
   Over the long term, our utility services must expand to all our residents if
we are going to continue to provide the best, most cost effective utility
services.
   I called the engineer that did the analysis, Raymond Collins, Manager of
Distributing Engineering for Booth and Associates and asked typically how long
should it take to do this work? He stated “an average would be about two
months.” I asked him how long he had worked for Booth and Associates and he
said 31 years.
   Regarding duplicity – our whole city operates on one system so that having
duplicity really shouldn’t be a factor.
   Walmart’s peak load generator can power the entire store so I Would expect
Lowes Foods to have a generator for back up as well.
   Booth & Associates, LLC provided the following Construction Cost Estimate to
extend underground electric service to the 88 acre development at a total cost
of $649,230.00:
As part of this estimate, we reviewed the anticipated additional load to be
connected to the existing overhead feeder. Based on the information provided,
the overhead circuit should be adequate. The estimated 1MW development would
need three-phase, 1/0 Al, 15 kV underground conductor. 1MW is about 64 amps and
the 1/0 cable is rated for +or-155 amps. This would give you some excess
capacity.
We decided to use 4-4” conduits. The quantity of 4 based our discussions last
week – pulling the conductors in individual conduits, as well as a spare
conduit, offers an increase in reliability in the event someone digs into the
conduit & ease of conductor replacement in case of a fault. The 4” diameter
conduit would allow space to increase the size of the conductor in the future,
if necessary, to accommodate additional load.
In review of the area the proposed underground is to be installed, we
determined that the best location for the new facilities would be on the north
side of the road. The north side of Southport – Supply Road offers more options
in terms of equipment locations than the south side. Overall the cost would not
change a great deal regardless of which side is ultimately chosen. We also
elected to price the construction of this project on the basis that the
installation method for the conduit would be entirely by directional boring.
This method was chosen due to the existing number of underground utilities
already in place in the area. Boring will eliminate the necessity to hand dig
over or under the other utilities. The bore could be made below the existing
facilities as much as possible to reduce the potential conflicts.
If you have any questions or comments, please let me know. It was nice meeting
you, Kerry and seeing you again, Ellie. Thanks for allowing Booth and
Associates to provide our services to the City of Southport. We look forward to
working with you in the future.
Thank you,
Ray
Raymond J. Collins
Manager of Distribution Engineering
Booth & Associates, LLC
5811 Glenwood Avenue
Raleigh, NC 27612
919-851-8770 x 186 office
919-810-6343 cell
919-859-5918 fax
   Alderman Pukenas stated his opinion that undertaking the project to serve
the 88 acres while also undertaking construction of a wastewater treatment
plant over the next several years, would stretch the city’s resources.
   Alderman Powell stated that the Rivermist Subdivision electric service was
given to BEMC because Southport’s electric service was experiencing problems
and with limited resources, the city had to improve the electric to those
customers in the contiguous city limits. He added that electric outages still
occur in the area of The Landing Subdivision and Deep Point Marina.
   Alderman Adams agreed with Alderman Pukenas that the city has many projects
on-going and should not take on another.
   Mayor Dove agreed and stated his concerns about causing delays for the
developer.
   Alderman Poole pointed out that servicing the 88 acres gives the city the
potential to make money once the development is built out. She questioned if
BEMC would give Southport extra benefits in any of the contracts with them.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to not proceed with
providing electric service to the 88 acres and to let BEMC take responsibility
for it.
   Discussion
   Alderman Adams requested that some benefits to Southport be pursued.
AYE:   Aldermen Powell, Pukenas, Adams, Coring
NAY:   Aldermen Poole, Mosteller
Motion Passed 4-2
   4. b.   Budget Transfer
   City Manager McDuffie pointed out Budget Transfer #3, provided in the
Board’s agenda packet, that transferred funds within the health insurance and
travel and training line items for the Salary Study and Management Training. He
noted that the cost was originally budgeted to come out of the savings from the
health insurance premium.
   4. c.   Police Department Budget
   City Manager McDuffie reported that the Police Department is in need of a
budget amendment due to overtime and separation allowance paid to a retiree. He
pointed out that there are currently ten (10) officers, an 11th officer will
start April 11 and a 12th officer July 1 along with replacement of the car
recently wrecked. He stated that a $61,000 budget amendment is needed and could
be prepared for the April 13th Board meeting. He added that staff would like to
budget for a new police car as there is a two to three month lead time to get a
car and there would be no spare car once the 12th officer is added.
   Alderman Powell stated his concerns that the separation allowance for a
retiree was not budgeted when it was well known that officer Williams would be
retiring. Additionally, he pointed out that there was a salary budgeted through
the remaining budget period for the officer that recently died. He stated his
opinion that the needed funds could be found in other areas of the budget.
   Alderman Adams agreed and asked if officers could share a car. He motioned,
second by Alderman Powell to not do a budget amendment and to not hire a
trainee building inspector until July.
   City Manager McDuffie explained that a Level 1 building inspector had to be
on the job for one year before moving up to the next level of certification
which would be required during the development of the commercial portion of the
88 acres.
   Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   5.   Board Comments
   Alderman Coring expressed concerns about the many projects the city is
undertaking. He stated that he still did not understand the budget issues with
the Police Department or the $70,000 moved within the departmental budgets for
the salary study.
   Noting that business owners in the Yacht Basin have expressed concerns, City
Manager McDuffie reported that the Bay Street/Caswell Avenue drainage project
bids are due April 20 and it is anticipated the work will take approximately 45
days. He added that engineer, Phil Norris estimated a cost of $37,000, there is
$36,000 in Powell Bill funds, and the majority of the work will take place
between the road and the water.
   Alderman Powell pointed out that Bay Street may be down to a single lane for
two or three days.
   Alderman Adams suggested that rock temporarily be placed on the road to
alleviate the current potholed condition.
   City Manager McDuffie, responding to Alderman Coring, estimated the work
would start sometime in May and be complete before July 1.
   Alderman Powell recommended a depth of 9” to 1’ of gravel be placed on the
road.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Adams to adjourn. Unanimous
vote; motion carried.
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
APRIL 13, 2017
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING APRIL 13, 2017
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Karen Mosteller, Jim Powell, Todd
Coring, Rick Pukenas
ABSENT:         Alderman Adams
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney   
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
   Gary Smith, Police Chief
   Mike Simmons, Police Lieutenant
   Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
   Randy Jones, Tourism Director
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   Thomas Lloyd, Planner
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Dove called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Mosteller welcomed everyone and Mayor Dove gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Mosteller led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Public Comment
   Ms. Patsy Walker, 312 W. West Street, addressed the Board about problems she
and her neighbor are experiencing with the weekly yard debris pickup.
   Mr. Jack Gordon, 5920 Dutchman Creek Road, spoke about his futile
interactions with Waste Industries and the subcontractor Brush Bandits relating
to his yard debris pickup.
   Mayor Dove stated that he, the city attorney and city manager are reviewing
the contract with Waste Industries for yard debris pickup and he hopes a
solution can be reached for the problems being experienced by Southport
citizens.
   City Attorney Isenberg stated that the size of the yard debris carts and
weight of the tied bundles were addressed in the contract and in order to get
additional containers a modification to the agreement would be required. He
added that the pick-up limits are normal and there are no color specifications
for the carts in the contract. He pointed out that the City Manager has been in
talks with Waste Industries to improve the service.
   Alderman Powell shared his experience with yard debris pick-up and stated
his opinion that any cart should be permitted for use as long as it’s labeled
yard waste.
   Ms. Kim Sherwood, The Humane Society of the United States District Leader
Volunteer, asked the Board to consider adoption of a Resolution Urging State
Leaders to Support House Bill 179, the Puppy Mill Bill. She read an overview of
the Bill and portions of the Resolution. Responding to a query from Alderman
Powell, Ms. Sherwood clarified that the Bill specifically addressed dogs and no
other animals. The Board took no action on the resolution. (Copy of House Bill
179 and Resolution on file in the Clerk’s office)
   Ms. Shirley Snyder, 5120 Prices Creek Drive, addressed the Board as the
Chair of the Southport Beautification Society. She thanked the volunteers that
participate in the monthly clean ups and she reported that 80 people
volunteered for the Day of Service in March. She stated that the Beautification
Committee is coordinating with the Garden Club on plantings throughout the city
and agreements for watering. She thanked the Parks & Recreation Director, Ms.
Hemphill and Tourism Director Mr. Jones for their cooperation and making the
efforts of the Beautification Committee much easier.    
E)   Approval of Agenda
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Poole to approve the agenda.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Dove stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
F)   Announcements
   Mayor Dove announced the passing of Dale Southerland, lifelong member of the
Southport Fire Department, and Ralph Parker, educator and champion of human
rights.
   Mayor Dove announced that a special celebration will be held Saturday, April
29 to recognize one of Southport’s favorite sons, Quinton Antoine McCracken,
who distinguished himself at South Brunswick High School, Duke University and
multiple professional baseball teams. Mayor Dove indicated the celebration will
be held on the Fort Johnston Garrison lawn.
   Alderman Mosteller announced that Friday, April 28th would be recognized and
celebrated as Southport Arbor Day. She stated an observance would be held at
11:00 a.m. and followed by an ice cream social.
   Alderman Mosteller announced that the next Beautification Committee clean up
would be held Saturday, May 6, 9:00 a.m. – noon.
   Alderman Mosteller reminded everyone that the Southport Spring Festival
would be held Friday, April 14th and Saturday, April 15th, 10:00 – 5:00.
   Alderman Poole expressed appreciation for an article in the State Port Pilot
urging businesses and individuals to donate towards continuation of the 4th of
July Festival.
G)   Special Recognition
   Mayor Dove read a Proclamation Recognizing Quinton Antoine McCracken and
presented it to the family.
CITY OF SOUTHPORT
PROCLAMATION
Recognizing
Quinton Antoine McCracken
WHEREAS, Quinton Antoine McCracken, one of Southport’s favorite sons, is being
recognized for his sporting achievements; and
WHEREAS, Quinton began his sporting career at South Brunswick High School
playing football, basketball, track and baseball; and
WHEREAS, in his senior year he led his baseball team to a 29-0 record and the
state Championship; and
WHEREAS, after graduating from Duke University, Quinton was selected by the
Colorado Rockies in their inaugural draft in 1992; and
WHEREAS, Quinton went on to play for the Tampa Bay Devil Rays, Minnesota Twins,
Arizona Diamondbacks, Seattle Mariners and Cincinnati Reds; and
WHEREAS, Quinton has been inducted into the Greater Wilmington Sports Hall of
Fame for his distinguished career; and
WHEREAS, it is an honor to extend this expression of esteem and congratulations
on this auspicious occasion.
NOW, THEREFORE by virtue of authority vested in me as Mayor, I, J.V. Dove
proclaim Sunday, April 30, 2017, as “Quinton Antoine McCracken DAY IN THE CITY
OF SOUTHPORT, NORTH CAROLINA.”
BE IT FURTHER PROCLAIMED that “Welcome to the Home of Quinton Antoine
McCracken” be displayed on a Southport entry way sign in his honor.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I do hereby set my hand and the official seal of the City
on this 23rd day of March 2017.    
                      J. V. Dove, Mayor
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to approve the consent
agenda.   Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   1.   Minutes for March 8 Workshop; Minutes of March 9 Regular Meeting –
approved
   2.   Southport Ugly Sweater 5K Road Race December 16, 2017 – approved
   3.   Resolution to Establish Written Criteria To Determine Whether Design-
Build Is Appropriate For the Project To Construct A New Wastewater Treatment
Plant and Approval of Design-Build Method For Said Project - approved
   4.   Resolution to Participate in the North Carolina Public Employee
Deferred Compensation Plan –    approved
   5.   Arbor Day Resolution - approved
RESOLUTION TO ESTABLISH WRITTEN CRITERIA TO DETERMINE WHETHER DESIGN-BUILD IS
APPROPRIATE FOR THE PROJECT TO CONSTRUCT A NEW WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT AND
APPROVAL OF DESIGN-BUILD METHOD FOR SAID PROJECT
   WHEREAS, G. S. 143-128.1A authorizes Design-Build Contracts when authorized
in accordance with the terms of said statute; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen wishes to proceed in accordance with said
statute to set criteria to use the Design-Build method and to apply said
criteria to the construction of a new wastewater treatment plant;
   NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen that the following
criteria is hereby established pursuant to G. S. 143-128.1A to determine the
circumstances under which the Design-Build method is appropriate:
Criteria 1: The extent to which the City can adequately and thoroughly define
the project requirements prior to the issuance of the request for
qualifications (RFQ) for a design-builder.
The design-build delivery method may be used if it is determined that, for the
project, the City has professional personnel that are both qualified and
experienced to thoroughly define project requirements prior to the issuance of
a request for qualifications for a design-builder. Consideration will be given
to the qualifications and experience of the personnel in the Public Works
Department and the availability of professional personnel in the areas of
engineering, purchasing, finance and legal to assist in the development of an
RFQ.
Criteria 2: The time constraints for the delivery of the project  .
The design-build delivery method may be used if a project has a firm date by
which a facility must be operational and the normal delivery method is likely
not to be timely (typically RFQ, study, design, bid and construct). The size
and cost of a project will dictate complexity and schedule.
Criteria 3: The ability to ensure that a quality project can be delivered .
The design-build delivery method may be used if it is determined that, for the
project, the City has professional and experienced personnel to ensure that the
design-build firm will provide a quality project within a budget constraints
established by the Board of Aldermen. Consideration will be given to the
qualifications and experience of the personnel in the Public Works Department
and the availability of experienced, qualified professional engineers.
Criteria 4: The capability of the City to manage and oversee the project,
including the availability of experienced staff or outside consultants who are
experienced with the design-build method of project delivery.
The design-build delivery method may be used if it is determined that, for the
project, the City has professional and experienced personnel that are
knowledgeable regarding design-build projects or, in the alternative,
experienced consultants local to Southport who are available to be retained to
perform the construction management of a design-build contract.
Criteria 5:
A good faith effort to comply with G.S. 143-128.2, G.S. 143-128.4, and to
recruit and select small business entities .
The design-build delivery method may be used if it is determined that, for the
project, requirements will be imposed to ensure that contractors will comply
with the M/WBE goals set by Board.
Criteria 6: The criteria utilized by the City, including a comparison of the
costs and benefits of using the design-build delivery method for a given
project in lieu of other delivery methods identified .
The criteria utilized by the City when considering a design-build delivery
method for a project will be as follows:
Is the project well-defined and does it include qualitative and quantitative
characteristics that make a design-build contract more appropriate than other
methods of delivery?
Is the project timeline overly constrained and will it be necessary to have the
facility complete and operational within a short time frame?
Will it be necessary to have the beneficial use of a portion of the facility
while it is under construction?
Given the scope of the project, is there a maximum budget that must be adhered
to in order to allow negotiations and flexibility to make appropriate decisions
on scope as the project progresses?
Does the design-build delivery method meet the ultimate operational goals
established for a given facility and the quality of product achieved as a
result of a more fluid and flexible delivery method?
In general terms, if it is determined that the expected expense of a design-
build project will be no more than ten (10%) percent greater than the expected
expense of a traditional RFQ, study, design, bid and construct project, the
design-build delivery method may be utilized.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen as follows:
   In applying the criteria set forth above to the new wastewater treatment
plant project, it is determined that the design-build delivery method be used
for this project, said determination being based upon the review of the above
criteria as it relates to the project as follows:
Criteria 1:   Through the Public Works Department and local professional
engineers, the City has professional personnel available that are both
qualified and experienced to thoroughly define project requirements prior to
the issuance of a request for qualifications for a design-builder.
Additionally, qualified personnel are available in the areas of purchasing,
finance and legal to assist in the development of an RFQ.
Criteria 2:   It is necessary for the City to build and have operational a
wastewater treatment plant no later than January 1, 2019, in order to comply
with an agreement with Brunswick County which has been providing wastewater
treatment to the City. This is a period of approximately 20 months. Typical
procedure would be to procure a design consultant, complete design and
undertake construction. This process would take approximately 24-30 months thus
preventing the treatment plant from being operational by January 1, 2019. The
Design-Build process provides the best option for the City to meet this time
frame.
Criteria 3:   Within the Public Works Department and with local professional
engineers, the City has professional and experienced personnel to ensure that
the design-build firm will provide a quality project within the budget
constraints established by Board.
Criteria 4:   Within the Public Works Department and with local professional
engineers, the City has professional and experienced personnel available that
are knowledgeable of design-build projects. Should it become necessary to
contract construction management of a design-build contract, there are
experienced consultants local to Southport that are available.
Criteria 5:   The City complies with G.S. 143-128.2, G.S. 143-128.4. The City
has an established and successful M/WBE program which requires contractors to
comply with the M/WBE goals set by Council.
Criteria 6:   As stated under Criteria #2 above, one of the benefits of the
Design-Build process is that it may reduce the overall project schedule by 6 to
12 months. This has a direct benefit on the project budget. The design-build
delivery method is not expected to involve any additional expense than the
expected expense of a traditional RFQ, study, design, bid and construct
project. The budget for the building of the new wastewater treatment plant is
$19.8 million. By reducing the time frame by 6-12 months, we are eliminating
the price escalation that would occur within that year. Additionally, the scope
of the design efforts will be reduced. It is expected that the design-build
process will save 2% of construction cost over what are typical design-bid-
build process. These benefits to both the project schedule and cost make the
design-build option more appealing than the more conventional design-bid-build
in this instance.
   This the 13th day of April, 2017.         City of Southport
                     /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor            
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
CITY OF SOUTHPORT RESOLUTION
   WHEREAS, the City of Southport wishes to provide a qualified defined
contribution plan to the employees of the City; and
   WHEREAS, the State of North Carolina has established the North Carolina
Public Employee Deferred Compensation Plan, a qualified governmental Deferred
Compensation Plan under Internal Revenue Code § 457(b) for public employees of
North Carolina.
   NOW THEREFORE, be it resolved that the City of Southport has adopted the
North Carolina Public Employee Deferred Compensation Plan, also known as .NC
Deferred Comp. under the terms of the Plan Document and the Third-Party
Administrator Agreement. All employees shall become eligible to defer
compensation immediately.
This 13th day of April 2017
                     /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk       
ARBOR DAY RESOLUTION
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1860_1366x1395.jpg]
WHEREAS, in 1872, J. Sterling Morton proposed to the Nebraska Board of
Agriculture that a special day be set aside for the planting of trees, and
WHEREAS, this holiday called Arbor Day, was first observed with the planting of
more than a million trees in Nebraska, and
WHEREAS, Arbor Day is now observed throughout the nation and the world, and
WHEREAS, trees can reduce the erosion of our precious topsoil by wind and
water, cut heating and cooling costs, moderate the temperature, clean the air,
produce life-giving oxygen, and provide habitat for wildlife, and
WHEREAS, trees are a renewable resource giving us paper, wood for our homes,
fuel for our fires, and
WHEREAS, trees in our city increase property values, enhance the economic
vitality of business areas, and beautify our community, and
WHEREAS, trees in our city are a great source of joy and spiritual renewal.
NOW, THEREFORE , The City of Southport Board of Aldermen, do hereby proclaim
April 28, 2017 as ARBOR DAY in the City and urge all citizens to celebrate and
support efforts to protect our trees and woodlands, and
FURTHER, The City of Southport Board of Aldermen urges all citizens to plant
trees to gladden the heart and promote the well-being of this and future
generations.
DATED, this 13th day of April, 2017.
                  /s/ J.V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
AGENDA
   6.   Public Hearing; Zoning Re-Classification for 1125 N. Howe Street and
109 12th    Street (RZ 17-206-01)
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Powell to open the Public
Hearing. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   City Planner Lloyd explained the proposed request to rezone two properties;
1125 N. Howe Street currently split zoned Business District (BD) and
Residential District (R-10) and 109 12th Street currently zoned R-10 to
entirely BD zoning. He reported that the Planning Board had reviewed the
request and found that the zoning map amendment is consistent with the CAMA
Core Land Use Plan. Mr. Lloyd stated that the Planning Board and staff
recommend that the Board of Aldermen approve the proposed zoning map amendment.
   No one from the public spoke.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to close the Public
Hearing. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   7.   Consideration of Zoning
      a.   Ordinance Approving a Zoning Map Amendment Rezoning Parcel
            237DA013 from R-10/BD to BD
      b.   Ordinance Approving a Zoning Map Amendment Rezoning Parcel
            237DA006 from R-10 to BD
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Powell to approve the zoning map
amendment ordinance rezoning both parcels as described and as consistent with
the CAMA Core Land Use Plan.  Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   8.   Budget Amendment #3; Fort Johnston Brick Restoration Project
   Tourism Director Jones explained that the $94,340 NC Economic Downtown
Revitalization Award had been received and needed to go into the Tourism
revenue and expenditures funds to cover expenses for work performed during this
budget year.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to adopt Budget
Amendment #3. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1869_855x840.jpg]
 
Budget Amendment
Fiscal Year 2016-2017
Budget Amendment #3
WHEREAS the City of Southport received a NC Economic Downtown Revitalization
award for $94,340. Proceeds are for Fort Johnston Brick Restoration project
with a total cost estimate of $144,000. The additional $94,340 needs
appropriation and expensing to cover this budget.
WHEREAS there are sufficient funds in the General Fund Tourism Department; and
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2016-2017 needs to be amended to
reflect the use of these funds;
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2016-2017 shall be
amended as follows:
General Fund Revenues                     Increase   
Tourism Misc Revenues
10-82-3834-0300            $94,340   
General Fund Expenditures
Capital Outlay - Other
10-6170-5500            $ 94,340
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, April 13, 2017.
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor   
/s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk   
   9.   Budget Amendment #4; West Bay Street Gravel
   City Manager McDuffie reported that 300 tons of gravel would be needed to
facilitate a temporary repair on W. Bay Street as requested by the Board. He
presented Budget Amendment #4 in the amount of $9,300 to fund the work.
   Alderman Powell pointed out that the gravel will raise the street out of the
high tide water through the tourist season and the material could be repurposed
to another location once the permanent repair is completed.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to accept the budget
amendment for the West Bay Street gravel project. Unanimous vote; motion
carried.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1872_855x840.jpg]
 
Budget Amendment
Fiscal Year 2016-2017
Budget Amendment #4
WHEREAS the City of Southport desires to fill in 317 West Bay St with gravel;
and
WHEREAS there are sufficient funds in the General Fund; and
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2016-2016needs to be amended to
reflect the use of these funds;
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2016-2017 shall be
amended as follows:
General Fund
                       Increase                                                                                        
Appropriated General Fund Balance
10-00-3991-0000            $9,233   
General Fund Expenditures
Street Department Departmental Supplies
10-05-4511-2600            $ 9,233
   Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, April 13,
2016.
                        /s/ J. V., Mayor   
/s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk   
   10.   Budget Amendment #5; FEMA
   City Manager McDuffie announced that the first Hurricane Matthew
reimbursement project, damage to the sidewalk and street at Ft. Johnston
Garrison between the pier and community building, had been accepted by FEMA. He
indicated that the reimbursement should be received by the city within 3-
4 months and approval of the budget amendment would allow staff to facilitate
the repairs within the next week depending on the contractor’s schedule.    
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Poole to proceed with the FEMA
Budget Amendment for repair of the street and sidewalk. Unanimous vote; motion
carried.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1875_855x840.jpg]
 
Budget Amendment
Fiscal Year 2016-2017
Budget Amendment #5
WHEREAS the City of Southport sustained damage from Hurricane Matthew to the
sidewalk and street at Ft. Garrison between the pier and community building,
and FEMA has agreed to reimbursement for the cost to repair at $13,150; and
this revenue needs to be appropriated to spend on these repairs. And
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2016-2017 needs to be amended to
reflect the use of these funds;
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2016-2017 shall be
amended as follows:
General Fund                        Increase   
   FEMA Disaster Recoveries
   10-00-3839-0402            $13,150
   General Fund Expenditures
   Street Department Departmental Supplies
   10-05-4511-2600            $ 13,150
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, April 13, 2016
                  /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
/s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk   
STAFF REPORTS
   Tourism Director Jones announced the Summer Concert Series scheduled
Memorial Day through Labor Day. Additionally, he provided information about the
fund raising effort for the additional $49,660 to complete the Fort Johnston
brick restoration project. He stated he had collected $7,000 within the first
week.
   Chief Smith reminded everyone of the Spring Festival to be held during the
Easter weekend which would bring additional traffic to the area. He indicated
an adult and child’s bicycle and safety seat would be raffled during the event.
BOARD COMMENTS
   Alderman Mosteller pointed out that there had been a Board consensus during
the February meeting to revisit the greenway project. She requested putting the
topic on the May board agenda.
   City Manager McDuffie reported that Walmart will not be participating
financially in the greenway project. He stated he has pricing for the lighting
and paving portion of the project and anticipates bringing to the Board during
the May meeting.
   Alderman Powell asked about availability of a detailed spreadsheet for each
department’s spending. City Manager McDuffie directed him to the Finance
Department monthly report near the end of the agenda packet. He stated that if
additional information or detail is wanted to let him or the Finance Director
know.
   Alderman Pukenas expressed appreciation to city staff and volunteers,
particularly the Tourism Department for obtaining a $94,000 grant for the brick
restoration project and the Public Works Department for doing Friday morning
trash pick-ups.
   Mayor Dove echoed Alderman Pukenas’s comments and wished everyone a happy
Easter.
ADJOURN  
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to adjourn. Unanimous
vote; motion carried.
                        /s/ J.V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
MAY 11, 2017
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING MAY 11, 2017
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Karen Mosteller, Jim Powell,
            Todd Coring, Rick Pukenas, Nelson Adams
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
   David Fox, Public Works Director
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   Mike Simmons, Police Lieutenant
   Randy Jones, Tourism Director
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   Thomas Lloyd, Planner
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Dove called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Coring welcomed everyone and gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Coring led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Public Comment
   There was no public comment.
E)   Approval of Agenda    
   Alderman Mosteller asked to move Consent Agenda item #5, Resolution in
Support of Creation of a Ferry Transportation Authority , to the regular
agenda.
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Poole to approve the agenda as
amended.  Unanimous vote; motion carried.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Dove stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
F)   Announcements
   Mayor Dove announced that Memorial Day services would be held on Monday, May
29th. with a parade beginning at 10:30 a.m. and an event in the Community
Building at 2:00 p.m.
   Mayor Dove announced that the residents of Cades Cove had invited Board
members to attend a Memorial Day Event at the community pool.
   Mayor Dove thanked the Beautification Committee for their continued efforts
beautifying Southport.
   Alderman Mosteller recognized the Forestry Committee for hosting a well-
attended Arbor Day celebration. She thanked Tourism Director Jones and City
Planner Lloyd for organizing the event. She expressed appreciation to the
Public Works staff that planted 14 Live Oak trees around the city. She
announced that the Forestry Committee was accepting applications for members.
   Alderman Mosteller announced that the next Beautification Committee, This is
Our Town Clean Up would be held Saturday, June 3, 9:00 a.m. – noon. She
encouraged all to join the fun.
   Alderman Coring stated appreciation for the recent events recognizing the
United States Coast Guard, Coast Guard Auxiliary and former Alderman Meezie
Childs.
   Alderman Poole reported that she, Alderman Mosteller and Planning Board
Chairman Tish Hatem had been conducting interviews for seats on the Planning
Board. She noted that many people were interested in serving on the Board and
had applied. She stated that consideration of appointments would be on the June
Board of Aldermen agenda.   
   Mayor Dove announced that he would hold a Mayor’s Day, Thursday, May 18, 4:
00 – 5:30 p.m. at the fire/rescue substation, 111 E. Nash Street.
SPECIAL RECOGNITION
   Mayor Dove read the Proclamation declaring May 20-26, 2017 as National Safe
Boating Week. He presented the Proclamation to members of the Coast Guard and
Coast Guard Auxiliary.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to approve the
Proclamation
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
ProclamationA Sample Proclamation
Recreational boating is fun and enjoyable, and we are fortunate that we have
sufficient resources to accommodate the wide variety of pleasure boating
demands. However, our waterways can become crowded at times and be a place of
chaos and confusion. While being a marvelous source of recreation, boating, to
the unprepared, can be a risky sport. Not knowing or obeying the Navigation
Rules or the nautical “Rules of the Road,” drinking alcohol or taking drugs
while operating a boat, or choosing not to wear your life jacket when doing so
is clearly NOT the smart thing to do, are all examples of human error or a lack
of proper judgment. One particular behavior that can reduce the number of
boaters who lose their lives by drowning each year by is the wearing of a life
jacket. It is a simple task that has the potential to reduce terrible loss in
lives.
Knowledge and skills are important in reducing human error and improving
judgment. If people are aware of the risk, they are likely to take the
precautionary measures to protect themselves and their friends and family. That
is why we must continue to spread the messages of boating safety not only
during National Safe Boating Week but also throughout the entire year.
Whereas, on average, 700 people die each year in boating-related accidents in
the U.S.; approximately 71% of these are fatalities caused by drowning; and
Whereas, the vast majority of these accidents are caused by human error or poor
judgment and not by the boat, equipment, or environmental factors; and
Whereas, a significant number of boaters who lose their lives by drowning each
year would be alive today had they worn their life jackets; and
Whereas, today’s life jackets are more comfortable, more attractive, and more
wearable than styles of years past and deserve a fresh look by today’s boating
public.
Therefore, I, JV Dove, do hereby support the goals of the North American Safe
Boating Campaign, the United States Coast Guard and the Coast Guard Auxiliary
and proclaim May 20–26, 2017, as National Safe Boating Week and the start of
the year-round effort to promote safe boating.
In Witness Thereof, I urge all those who boat to Wear It! and practice safe
boating habits.
Given under my signature and the seal of
/s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor, Southport, North Carolina
/s/ Erich White, Officer-in-Charge USCG Station Oak Island
at the city of Southport
this 11th day of May, 2017
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Coring to approve the consent
agenda.   Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Minutes of April 3, 2017 Workshop; Minutes of April 13 Regular Meeting;
Minutes of April 24 Special Meeting – approved
2.   Resolution to North Carolina Department of Transportation (NCDOT)
Requesting Installation of a Signage Panel Honoring Quinton Antoine McCracken
and Authorizing Execution of NCDOT Reimbursement Agreement for related Design
and Installation Costs - approved
3.   Resolution Approving the Brunswick County Greenway, Bike Routes, and
Paddle Trail Plan – approved
4.   Resolution Terminating AT&T Joint Use Pole Agreement – approved
5.   Resolution in Support of Creation of a Ferry Transportation Authority –
moved to regular agenda
6.   Agreement with Brunswick Community College – approved 
AGENDA
   7.   Norris & Tunstall Recommendation of Award, Bay Street Drainage 
   City Manager McDuffie reported that bids were received for the Bay Street
Drainage project and that the low bid from Hickman Utilities, Inc. in the
amount of $33,681.20 was within budget of funding available in Powell Bill. He
stated that the project is expected to take up to six (6) weeks to complete and
the low bidder agreed to do the work after Labor Day so as not to disrupt
businesses in the area during the busy tourist season, with the provision that
materials for the work can be purchased now.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to accept staff
recommendation to award a contract to the low bidder with the provision that
work commences after Labor Day. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   8.   Consideration of Street Lighting Policy 
   City Manager McDuffie reported that a Street Lighting Committee of himself,
City Planner, Aldermen Poole, Coring and Pukenas had prepared standards for a
citywide Street Lighting Policy, as provided in the agenda packet. He stated
that staff recommended approval of the Policy with addition of the color or
temperature of lighting and no lights no more than 4,000 kelvin permitted. He
stated that the next step would be to draw up a map depicting which lights in
which locations.
   Alderman Adams motioned, second by Alderman Coring to table consideration of
the Street Lighting Policy until the locations map is submitted with the
Policy.
   Discussion
   Responding to a query by Alderman Powell, City Manager McDuffie explained
that 26 concrete poles remain of the original 40 purchased. He added that upon
approval of the Policy and locations, the 26 poles would be placed in the
downtown area. He pointed out that aluminum poles are recommended for use in
residential areas.   
   Unanimous vote; motion carried.                     
   9.   Rate Review Committee Recommendation 
   Alderman Poole, Chairman of the Rate Review Committee, also consisting of
the City Manager, Finance Director, Aldermen Coring and Mosteller, presented
the committee’s recommendation and discussed specific changes:
City of Southport
Rate Review Committee
4/28/2017
Proposed Rates
Water Inside      Change         Water Outside
Residential
Base      $23.95  NO             Base      $38.95   No Change
3-10k gal $5.50   NO             3-10k gal $8.25    1.5 X inside rate
>10k gal  $7.00   varies         >10k gal  $10.50   1.5 X inside rate
Commercial
Base      $33.95  NO             Base      $50.93   1.5 X inside rate
3-10k gal $5.50   NO             3-10k gal $8.25    1.5 X inside rate
>10k gal  $7.00   varies         >10k gal  $10.50   1.5 X inside rate
Irrigation Inside                Irrigation Outside
Base      $7.45   W/ 0 gal       Base      $11.18   1.5 X inside rate
0-10k gal $5.50   NO             0-10k gal $8.25    1.5 X inside rate
>10k gal  $7.00   Varies         >10k gal  $10.50   1.5 X inside rate
Sewer Inside      Change         Sewer Outside      Change
Residential
Base      $46.50  W/ 3k gal      Base      $69.75   1.5 X inside rate
>3k gal   $6.00   Was $5.81      >3k gal   $9.00    1.5 X inside rate
Commercial
Base      $56.50  W/ 3k gal      Base      $84.75   1.5 X inside rate
>3k gal   $6.00   Was $5.81      >3k gal   $9.00    1.5 X inside rate
Application fee will go from $25.00 to $35.00.
Application fee will be waived if customer signs up for
ACH
$5.00 late fee will no longer be
accessed
Reconnection & delinquent fee is $35.00
Credit/Debt Card convenience fee $5.00
If reconnected in same name or immediate family member name, within
11 months, the base rate plus reconnection fee will be charged.
If customer is a sewer customer with County provided water, the
delinquent fee is $70.00
 
   Alderman Poole stated that a review would be conducted in six (6) months to
determine if the proposed rate changes are adequate.
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to accept the proposed
rates of the Rate Review Committee effective on the bills going out the end of
June.
   Discussion
   Alderman Powell stated that he would like to see separate breakdowns on
water and sewer, how much debt the city still owes on the newest water tower,
pumping station and force mains and how that is calculated into the bill. He
added that he would like to see Operating & Maintenance (O&M) part of both
water and sewer before calculating the rates.
   Noting that rate information was provided in the annual audit, City Manager
McDuffie responded that the information requested by Alderman Powell could be
provided. He added that city debt on sewer is under $600,000 and there is no
debt on the water tank which is the County’s.
   Alderman Adams asked for specifics of which rates were increasing. City
Manager McDuffie explained that the sewer rates per 1,000 gallons would
increase approximately 3%, there was no increase for water usage under 10,000
gals/mo., and there would be an increase for out of town residents to 1-1/
2 times the rate for in town residents.
   Alderman Adams stated his position that he would not support an increase on
anything. He cited the construction of the city’s new Wastewater Treatment
Plant and potential rate increases at that time.
   City Manager McDuffie explained that the rates were built out based on the
audit and the contract expense for additional sewer capacity purchased from the
County in 2015.
   Alderman Poole stated that the main reason for the proposed rate changes was
to pay for the extra sewer capacity.
   Aye: Aldermen Poole, Mosteller, Pukenas, Coring
   Nay: Aldermen Powell, Adams
   Motion Carried 4-2
   10.   Walmart Greenway
   City Manager McDuffie reported that a Board requested diagram and cost
estimate for the proposed greenway to Walmart was provided in the agenda
packet. He stated that a friend of Alderman Mosteller’s had donated time to
prepare the drawing. He added that $30,000 was in the current budget for the
$24,000 estimated project with a potential reduction to $19,000 with the
proposed lighting being funded through the electrical budget. City Manager
McDuffie stated that a written approval from Walmart is all the project is
waiting on in order to proceed.
   Alderman Adams questioned if the Board could reposition itself on the issue
if funding was already designated for the project.
   Alderman Mosteller pointed out that the City of Southport Comprehensive
Pedestrian Transportation Plan and 2015-2020 Parks, Recreation and Open Space
Master Plan had been adopted by the Board. She noted that the Plans were a
collaboration with North Carolina Department of Transportation (NCDOT),
residents and city staff. The plans clarified that over 26% of residents lack
access to a vehicles and Southport is an older community with the average age
being 56. She emphasized the reasoning behind funding the greenway in order to
provide safe access to Southport’s only grocery store, Walmart. She added that
the proposed six foot wide path would be useable by pedestrians, cyclists,
those in wheelchairs and golf carts. She stressed the additional importance of
the greenway during the upcoming widening of NC 211 by NCDOT.
   Alderman Mosteller motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to hire Phil Norris
to do the preliminary design of the project.
   Discussion
   Alderman Adams stated his opinion that the $30,000 should be allocated to a
higher priority project, such as hurricane damage repair to the pier or towards
renovations of the former city hall.
   Alderman Mosteller reiterated her concerns for the safety and welfare of
Southport residents to access Tidewater Plaza without being endangered in the
middle of Howe Street or along the uneven terrain on the side of the road.
   Noting that FY Budget 2017-2018 consideration will begin in the very near
future, Alderman Poole stated concerns about the money. She suggested continued
discussion of the project during budget consideration and in conjunction with
other projects the city is undertaking. Alderman Poole stated support for
Alderman Mosteller’s idea to get the engineering phase completed.
   Aye:   Aldermen Mosteller, Pukenas, Coring
   Nay:   Aldermen Powell, Adams, Poole
   Aye:   Mayor Dove
   Motion Carried 4-3   
   11.   Consideration of Contract with Brunswick Electric Membership Corp.
(BEMC)
   Mayor Dove announced that BEMC was unable to attend the meeting and
requested rescheduling on Monday, May 15, 4:00 p.m. Board consensus to recess
meeting to Monday, May 15, 4:00 p.m. in order to meet with BEMC
representatives, followed by a budget workshop at 5:00 p.m.
   12.   Resolution in Support of Creation of a Ferry Transportation Authority
   At her request, Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to
recuse Alderman Mosteller. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to accept the
Resolution in Support of Creation of a Ferry Transportation Authority.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
CITY OF SOUTHPORT
RESOLUTION IN SUPPORT OF CREATION OF A
FERRY TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY
   WHEREAS, the City of Southport is located on the banks of the Cape Fear
River and Intracoastal Waterway and has a rich maritime heritage; and
   WHEREAS, the City of Southport is home to the mainland ferry terminal
facilities and vehicle parking for access to Bald Head Island; and
   WHEREAS, many Southport residents are employed on and/or regularly visit
Bald Head Island and depend upon the ferry services and parking facilities, and
many residents living on and visitors to Bald Head Island regularly transact
business in Southport; and
   WHEREAS, ferry services and facilities for access to Bald Head Island are
presently operated and owned by several privately held corporations, and
therefore the City of Southport currently has no formal role in the ownership,
management, or operations of the ferry services or parking facilities; and
   WHEREAS, Senate Bill 391 entitled “An Act to Authorize the Creation of a
Ferry Transportation Authority” would provide the potential for the facilities
and operations serving Bald Head Island to be consolidated into a single ferry
transportation authority that would be a public body with public
accountability; and
   WHEREAS, the creation of a ferry transportation authority appears to be in
the best long-term interest of the City of Southport, its residents and
businesses,
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport:
   1.   Southport supports and calls upon the General Assembly of North
Carolina to enact Senate Bill 391or similar legislation creating a ferry
transportation authority with the capability of owning and operating the water
transportation and parking facilities and services presently provided to Bald
Head Island;
   2.   Upon the effectiveness of legislation authorizing the creation of a
ferry transportation authority, it is the intention of the City of Southport to
promptly conduct, upon due notice, a public hearing on a Resolution to form an
Authority under such legislation, including, if necessary, the City of
Southport serving as an incorporator of the Authority.
   3.   The City Attorney and Staff are directed to draft said Resolution and
to coordinate, as necessary, with the Village of Bald Head Island and Brunswick
County in the drafting of Articles of Incorporation that set forth all of the
following:
      a.   the name of the Authority;
      b.   a statement that the Authority is organized under the legislation;
      c.   the name of each organizing entity;
      d.   and such other information as may be required by the legislation.
   This is 11th day of May, 2017
                     /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Board Comments
   Stating appreciation for his service, Mayor Dove announced that the City
Manager had accepted a position with another city.
   Mayor Dove appointed a committee of himself, Aldermen Poole, Pukenas, Adams
and Mayor Pro Tem Coring as an alternate to search for an Interim City Manager.
   Mayor Dove appointed a committee to oversee the city’s utilities, especially
the upcoming sewer treatment plant project. He appointed himself, Aldermen
Powell, Pukenas, Mosteller, and Mayor Pro Tem Coring as an alternate.
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Poole to allow a request by the
4 th of July Committee to close a portion of E. West Street during the 4 th of
July Festival. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Noting there have been several new Police officers hired, Alderman Powell
asked if the new officers could be introduced to the Board at their June
regular meeting. Lt. Simmons stated he would advise Chief Smith of the request.
   City Manager McDuffie reported that a request had been made to install
windows in the Public Restroom, 107 E. Nash Street, to help make it cooler. He
stated that the work could be completed for $800.
   Alderman Adams stated concerns about vandalism to the public restroom with
installation of windows and he suggested consideration of the request during
budget deliberations.
   City Manager McDuffie pointed out that several Board members had registered
to attend the August 10th-12th ElectriCities Conference which conflicts with
the Board’s August 10th regular meeting. Board consensus to move the August
regular meeting to Thursday, August 17.
   Alderman Adams expressed disappointment with the yard debris pickup service.
He stated he receives more complaints about that issue than any other. He
shared his and his ward’s problems with the colors of the debris cans and the
drivers of the collection vehicles. He recommended getting out of the contract.
   City Manager McDuffie agreed that yard debris pick up is the services most
complained about. He stated that he was told that only green debris cans would
be picked up although the service contract did not stipulate a can color.
   Alderman Powell stated his opinion that the contract needed to be enforced
by the city and he asked the city attorney to address the issue.
   City Attorney Isenberg stated that the contract does not require a specific
color of cart, just a certain size. He added that if the Board determined the
contractor is not providing the contracted services, the city can get out of
the contract after giving notice to cure the breach of contract.
   Alderman Coring asked about the option of providing the service in-house.
City Manager McDuffie stated that with the purchase of equipment, the city
could provide the labor intensive service for less money and likely provide
better customer service.
   Recess
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to recess the meeting
to Monday, May 15, 4:00 p.m. in the Emergency Operations Center (EOC) of Fire
Headquarters, 1011 N. Howe Street. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
MAY 15, 2017
RECESSED SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN            RECESSED SESSION MINUTES
FIRE DEPARTMENT HEADQUARTERS MAY 15, 2017
1011 N. HOWE STREET          SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Karen Mosteller, Jim Powell,
            Rick Pukenas, Nelson Adams
ABSENT:         Alderman Todd Coring
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
   David Fox, Public Works Director
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   Gary Smith, Police Chief
   Randy Jones, Tourism Director
   Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   Thomas Lloyd, Planner
A)   Call to Order – 4:00 p.m.
Mayor Dove called the meeting back to order at 4:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Fire Chief Drew gave the invocation.
AGENDA
   Noting that the city manager was leaving Southport to accept a position with
the Town of Ahoskie, Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Powell to
donate an Optelec CCTV, Model ClearView+ to the Town of Ahoskie and adopt the
supporting resolution as prepared by the city attorney. Unanimous vote; motion
carried.
RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING SALE TO GOVERNMENTAL UNIT
   WHEREAS, the City of Southport owns an Optelec CCTV, model ClearView +,
which is now surplus for its current needs; and
   WHEREAS, the Town of Ahoskie can use said property for valid governmental
purposes; and
    WHEREAS, N. C. G. S. 160A-274 authorizes the City to sell property without
consideration to another governmental unit; and
   WHEREAS, the Town of Ahoskie is a governmental unit under the laws of the
State of North Carolina;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that the
City of Southport hereby sells and conveys to the Town of Ahoskie its Optelec
CCTV, model ClearView +, at no cost to the Town of Ahoskie for use by its city
manager.
   Adopted this 15th day of May, 2017.
                     City of Southport
                     /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk   
   Brunswick Electric Membership Corp. (BEMC)
   The proposed contract entitled “BEMC Consolidated Contract with the City of
Southport, NC for the Operation and Maintenance and the Electric Customer
Account Services for the City of Southport Distribution System”, including all
attachments, was discussed and considered by the Board. Upon a motion by
Alderman Poole, seconded by Alderman Powell, the following resolution was
adopted:
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Aldermen does hereby approve
the above-referenced Contract and all of said parts of said work covered by
said contract to the said Brunswick Electric Membership Corporation at and for
the rates and prices set out in the Contract, said approval being subject to
all conditions and stipulations set out in the Contract above-mentioned and the
Mayor is hereby authorized and directed to execute said Contract on behalf of
the City of Southport, North Carolina.
The foregoing resolution was adopted by unanimous vote.
   Fiber Optic
   City Manager McDuffie provided the Board with quotes to extend fiber-optic
lines to Fire Headquarters, Police Department, Tourism Department, Parks &
Recreation offices and Community Building. He pointed out that the city will be
able to use one internet connection to serve multiple facilities, transfer
calls from one office to another and realize a $16,000 annual savings.
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to proceed with
installation of the fiber optic project. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Budget
   City Manager McDuffie presented the FY 2017-2018 proposed budget to the
Board. He stated that the budget was balanced, the tax rate would remain at
24.56 cents per $100 of taxable value, no funding of capital improvements are
included and no increase in employees. He pointed out that the city lost
$105,000 in revenue from the lease and shared utility and maintenance costs
when Wells Fargo moved from the second floor of city hall. He advised the Board
that departments’ requests exceeded available revenue by $1,082,000. He added
that there was a 10 percent increase for employees’ health insurance, along
with increases in the property and liability insurance costs, bonds and fuel.
   City Manager McDuffie reported that the water, sewer and electrical budgets
were good, solid long-term budgets that included capital items.
   Noting that the performance evaluation system training was put on hold until
a new manager is hired, City Manager McDuffie stated that a 2.1% COLA was
included in the budget, along with 1% for merit increases.
   Alderman Adams expressed concerns about the neglect and condition of
equipment in Caviness Park. He asked to have the park modernized.
   Board consensus to review the budget individually and reconvene Tuesday, May
30th, 5:00 p.m. in the Fire Headquarters EOC to discuss the budget in more
detail.
   It was noted that a Public Hearing on the budget is schedule for Thursday,
June 8 and the budget must be adopted by June 30.
   Recess   
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to recess the meeting
to Tuesday, May 30, 2017, 5:00 p.m. in the Fire Department Headquarters, 1011
N. Howe Street. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
MAY 30, 2017
SPECIAL SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN   SPECIAL SESSION MINUTES
FIRE DEPARTMENT     MAY 30, 2017
1011 N. HOWE STREET SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Karen Mosteller, Jim Powell, Rick
Pukenas, Nelson Adams
ABSENT:         Alderman Todd Coring
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   David Fox, Public Works Director
   Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
   Gary Smith, Police Chief
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   Randy Jones, Tourism Director
A)   Call to Order – 5:00 p.m.
   Mayor Dove called the meeting to order at 5:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
   Fire Chief Drew gave the invocation
C)   Public Comment
   Mr. Paul Fisher, 110 River Drive, spoke about the profits the city collects
from the local ABC store. He encouraged the Board to review their records for a
resolution that designated a portion of the proceeds to go to the Southport
Elementary School for student supplies.
   Mr. Fisher spoke about a recent power outage and how the city’s phone system
went out as well, making it impossible to reach city offices.
   Mr. Fisher emphasized the need to continue the electrical service
underground project.
   City Manager McDuffie pointed out that installation of fiber-optic to all
city facilities was approved by the Board. He stated that along with a new
generator at city hall, the fiber optic would allow the phone system to be
operational during a power outage.
   Ms. Penny Ormerod, President, Associated Artists of Southport that leases
Franklin Square Gallery, spoke about the condition of the roof, the need to
repair the siding and paint the exterior. She pointed out that under the lease
agreement, the association is responsible for interior upkeep of the building
and the city is responsible for the exterior.
   City Manager McDuffie stated his assumption that the Artists group and the
Board of Aldermen would renew the lease, while speculating that the Board may
prefer to turn over all maintenance, inside and out, to the tenant.
   Ms. Shelley Lesher, Treasurer, Associated Artists of Southport, stated that
her group would be open to discussing different lease terms but were in no
position to assume the cost of needed repairs. She noted that since 1997, the
Associated Artists of Southport had spent $190,658 on interior improvements.
   Alderman Adams pointed out that currently there are no funds in the budget
for the repairs and repainting. He reasoned that the lease may need to be
renegotiated.
BUDGET
   City Manager McDuffie provided an updated copy of the proposed FY 2017-2018
budget. He pointed out that overtime expenses were shown as a separate line
item and additional descriptions had been added to revenue. He reviewed the
state mandated Budget Message, Budget Ordinance and the corresponding
informational worksheets. He noted the revision to the estimated ABC Store
revenue and he reported that the Planning and Inspections Department was
reviewing the fee schedule for possible updates.
   City Manager McDuffie emphasized that there were no capital projects funded
in the proposed budget.
   Alderman Adams stated his wish that $12,000 be added to the budget for
upgrades to Caviness Park.
   Alderman Pukenas agreed and spoke about the city’s failing infrastructure.
Noting that Southport’s tax rate is lower than Oak Island and Shallotte, he
recommended looking at the city’s tax rate.
   Mayor Dove agreed and stated that it is the Board’s responsibility to the
citizens to provide necessary services and safety. He recalled a time when the
tax rate was $.58 cents per $100 valuation.
5:22 Alderman Coring arrives
   Alderman Poole agreed that parks need to be brought up to par. She stated
that as a member of the Rate Committee, the group would meet and review
Planning & Inspection Department rates and make a recommendation to the Board.
   Alderman Pukenas, noting the current tax rate is $.2456, stated he would
like to see an increase to $ .2956.
   Alderman Mosteller agreed with all comments made. She pointed out that there
was no fat in the proposed budget to cut and stated that a community could not
operate without capital improvements. She stated her support to raise the tax
rate by $.05 cents. She suggested holding a special public form to receive
input from citizens.
   Alderman Adams stated he was not in a position to do a tax increase.
   Alderman Coring stated his concerns about the proposed budget, overages in
the current budget and that he could not support a budget with no capital in
it. He recalled how the city had to catch up on purchases of police vehicles
and ambulances. He stated he had received calls from citizens questioning the
wastewater treatment plant construction project. He cautioned the Board and
agreed that a town hall meeting should be held for public input.
   Alderman Powell recalled 2011 when there was no reliable ambulance, police
cars needed replaced, citizens wanted a public restroom. He contended that the
city had operated well with the $.2456 tax rate. He commented on the city’s
financial straits and wondered how the city got there and where the “wasted”
money went. He inferred that the city started having financial problems when
employees were added. He emphasized cutting expenses. Alderman Powell stated
that he could not support an increase in taxes.
   Responding to a query by Alderman Powell, City Manager McDuffie explained
that all Hurricane Matthew related repair projects; i.e., Waterfront bulkhead,
Alantic Avenue CAMA beach access, & boat docks, had been written and approved
by FEMA. He anticipated reimbursement within 3-4 months.
   City Manager McDuffie explained that a budget amendment would be required to
do the hurricane related repairs within the 12 month from the event deadline
while waiting on FEMA reimbursement.
   Alderman Mosteller stated her impression that when the economic downturn
occurred, the city did not stay revenue neutral and that negatively impacted
subsequent budgets. She repeated her recommendation to hold a budget public
meeting.
   City Manager McDuffie asked for a list of the capital projects the Board
wanted in the proposed budget. He noted that for all capital requests, a $.16
cent tax increase would be needed.
   The Board went through each request and the following items were listed as
priorities:
   Caviness Park Improvements            $ 12,000
   Franklin Square Gallery Building Improvements   $ 42,000
   Brunswick Family Assistance            $ 2,000
   Greenway to Walmart               $ 30,000
   2 Police Ford Explorers $38,000 each      $ 76,000
   Key fob entry for Police Department         $ 3,800
   Parking Atlantic Street Park            $ 7,000
   Walkway at Garrison               $ 2,500
   Community Building HVAC            $ 15,000
   UDO Update by COG               $ 10,000
   TOTAL                  $ 200,300
RECESS – 6:29 p.m.
BACK IN SESSION – 6:39 p.m.
   Alderman Poole talked about the sell of surplus city property; i.e. Boiling
Spring Lakes lot, 9 th Street residential parcel, and “new old jail” on Rhett
Street.
   City Manager McDuffie reported that the jail property had to be subdivided
in order to split off the old historic jail portion.
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to have the property at
the new old jail surveyed and subdivided. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Board Consensus to hold a meeting on Monday, June 12, 6:00 p.m. in the
Community Building in order to receive public input on the proposed budget and
to hold a Board meeting Tuesday, June 13, 5:30 p.m. in the Fire Headquarters
EOC to consider the budget.
   Pursuant to N.C.G.S. 143-318.11(a)(6) Alderman Coring motioned, second by
Alderman Poole to go into Closed Session for consideration of a personnel
matter. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   City Manager and Clerk excused.
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Poole to come out of Closed
Session. Unanimous vote; motion carried.   
   Mayor Dove reported that the Board discussed options for an Interim City
Manager.
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Poole to adjourn the
meeting. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
                         /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
JUNE 8, 2017
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING JUNE 8, 2017
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Karen Mosteller, Jim Powell, Todd
Coring, Rick Pukenas, Nelson Adams
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney   
   Gary Smith, Police Chief
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
   Randy Jones, Tourism Director
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   Thomas Lloyd, Planner
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
   Mayor Dove called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
   Alderman Powell welcomed everyone and Mayor Dove gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Powell led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Public Comment
   Ms. Lora Sharkey, 432 Cades Trail, expressed support for the proposed
greenway to Tidewater Plaza. She asked the Board to approve construction of the
project using funding allocated in the current budget. She emphasized that
greenways provide safe passage to shopping areas, connectivity and reduce
isolation by providing recreation.
   Ms. Maryanne Huntley, 311 E. Nash Street, stated her support for the
greenway.
   Ms. Lowe Davis, 504 W. Brunswick Street, complained about the sound system
used by the Board for their meetings. She stated that it was hard for the
audience to hear and she advocated the purchase of a new sound system.
   Dr. Joe Pat Hatem, 610-A W. Brown Street, spoke about the growth in the tax
base throughout the County with projections for increased revenue. He stated
his opinion it is not unreasonable to increase taxes for specific capital
projects. He urged the Board to prioritize.
   Mr. Brian Stevens, 503 Cades Trail, stated his support for the greenway.
   Ms. Shirley Snyder, 5120 Prices Creek Drive, went on the record in support
of the greenway.
   Mr. George Rey, 1013 N. Caswell Avenue, expressed his support for the
greenway.
   Mr. Fred Fiss, 216 N. Atlantic Avenue, stated his support for the proposed
greenway and he commented on the completed greenway connecting N. Caswell
Avenue to the Brunswick Senior Center at Smithville Crossing.   
   Ms. Becky Felton, 230 Caswell Avenue, a 22 year resident of Southport
recalled a time when people could walk to the grocery store. She stated her
concerns about people not having access to shopping areas. She said she felt a
greenway could be made safe and urged the Board to support it.
   Ms. Carolyn Pryor, 5900 Dutchman Creed Road, Ms. Patti VanWagner, 5997
Spikerush Trail, Ms. Molla & Mr. Gerald Donaldson, 5990 Dutchman Creek Road,
and Ms. Virginia Jordan, 509 Cades Trail entered their names into the record in
support of the greenway.
   Mayor Dove pointed out that the Board had previously approved an engineering
study to determine the exact cost of construction of the greenway.
   City Manager McDuffie stated that Walmart had been in contact with him this
date and indicated where they would like the greenway to connect to their
parking lot. He stated that the next step is for the consulting engineers to
complete the design and cost estimate. He added that once the design and study
are completed, there would be a public meeting to get input from citizens.
E)   Approval of Agenda
   Mayor Dove asked for Agenda Item #5, Public Hearing; Proposed Capital
Project Budget, Wastewater Treatment Plant to be included in Item 10.
   City Manager McDuffie asked for addition of Budget Amendment #7; Expenses
for Overtime in the Police Department.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to approve the agenda as
amended.  Unanimous vote; motion carried.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Dove stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
F)   Announcements
   Police Chief Smith introduced new police officers Alexis Decker and Lora
McCachren.
   Mayor Dove announced that the Southport July 4th Festival is quickly
approaching.
   Mayor Dove announced that the June 19th, “Juneteenth” observation was
continued until July 8th.  . Dating back to June 19, 1865, Juneteenth is the
oldest known celebration commemorating the end of slavery in the United States.
   Mayor Dove announced that he would be giving a tour of Southport to a
visiting Women’s Wounded Veterans & Spouses Group on Friday, June 9.   
G)   Special Recognition
   Mayor Dove read a resolution recognizing the Lions Club International 100th
Anniversary and presented the resolution to Lions Club members attending the
meeting. Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to adopt the
resolution.  Unanimous vote; motion carried.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1802_855x840.jpg]
Resolution
Lions Club International 100th Anniversary
WHEREAS, the Lions Club International was established 100 years ago (June 7,
1917) with the mission of empowering volunteers to serve their communities,
meet humanitarian needs, encourage peace and promote international
understanding through Lions Clubs; and
WHEREAS, the Lions Club International is the largest service club organization
in the world with approximately 1.35 million members in more than 46,000 clubs
around the world; and
WHEREAS, since 1925, Lions have served as “knights of the blind in the crusade
against darkness”, in addition to serving in Community and Environmental
programs, Disaster Relief, to include Sight, Hearing, Diabetes Awareness
programs, International Relations, and Children and Youth programs, and
WHEREAS, since 1990, through their SightFirst Program, Lions are restoring
sight and preventing blindness on a global scale by targeting the major causes
of blindness: cataract, trachoma, river blindness, childhood blindness,
diabetic retinopathy and glaucoma; and
WHEREAS, our own Southport Lions Chapter, established in 1945, continues to
serve the noted mission of the Lions Club International by providing assistance
with eye examinations and glasses, cataract surgery, vision screening,
recycling glasses; and
WHEREAS, the Southport Lions provide scholarships, support the NC Boys & Girls
Home, the ICCF Food Pantry, and many other worthy causes;
NOW THEREFORE, I, J.V. Dove, Mayor of the City of Southport, NC and the Board
of Aldermen, hereby congratulate the Lions Club International on 100 years of
community and global service.
ADOPTED, this 8th day of June 2017 by the Southport Board of Aldermen.
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
   Parks & Recreation Director Hemphill expressed appreciation and honored the
Sisterhood of Southport group for the multitude of upgrades and renovations
made to the parks & recreation facility at 209 N. Atlantic Avenue, such as new
furniture, new appliances, artwork, pressure washing, and painting throughout.
   Mayor Dove read and presented a resolution recognizing Ms. Shirley Snyder.
RESOLUTION OF APPRECIATION FOR THE SERVICES OF SHIRLEY SNYDER
WHEREAS, Shirley Snyder has served on the Beautification Committee of the City
of Southport; and
WHEREAS, Shirley Snyder has volunteered countless hours of her precious time
towards making and keeping the appearance of the City of Southport a city for
all residents to be proud of; and
WHEREAS, Shirley Snyder has served unselfishly on the Beautification Committee
and put forth substantial effort toward the beautification of the City of
Southport.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Mayor and the Board of Aldermen of the
City of Southport, North Carolina, that Shirley Snyder is hereby officially
commended for her valuable service rendered to the City of Southport.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that this resolution be made a part of the permanent
records of the City of Southport and that a copy of this resolution be
presented to Shirley Snyder.
Duly Resolved, this 8th day of June
2017.                                                   /s/ J.V. Dove, Mayor
/s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
   Noting that this would be the city manager’s last meeting with the Board,
Mayor Dove and the Board recognized City Manager McDuffie for his service to
Southport. He was wished success in his new position as manager for the Town of
Ahoskie, NC and thanked for putting into place many endeavors that will
continue. He was presented with a keepsake of appreciation.
   City Manager McDuffie thanked the Board and citizens for giving him the
opportunity to serve Southport.
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to approve the consent
agenda.   Unanimous vote; motion carried.   
Minutes for May 11 Regular Meeting & May 15 Recessed Session – approved
2.   Review Process for Acceptance of Donations of Property or Services –
approved
Offer of Donations of Property or Services to City of Southport
The City of Southport has a review process in place, for liability reasons,
when an offer for a service or property is extended. Please allow us 1-2 weeks
for a response. We will get back to you by _________________. At that point we
will advise you of the next steps in securing the donation if we believe we can
responsibly accept the donation.
Name of person or organization offering the donation:
_____________________________________________________
Address of donor:
___________________________________________________________________________________
Phone # of donor:
___________________________________________________________________________________
Email of donor:
_____________________________________________________________________________________
Description of donation:
______________________________________________________________________________
Donors projected value of donation: $ _____________
1. How would you like the item or service to be used by the City of Southport?

2. Where would you like the item placed and how will it get there? Will you
need help from the City? Is there a cost involved? If so, what is the estimated
cost? Explain.

3. Does the item require maintenance? If so, what needs to be done and who will
provide that service? If you want the City to take on the maintenance, what is
the expectation and projected annual cost?

4. What is the projected life span of the item? At the end of usable service,
what do you want the City to do with the item? Do you want to be notified? How?

5. Does the item require electricity or a water supply or other service?
 
Signature ________________________________________________ Date
_____________________________
City of Southport Checklist for Acceptance of Donations of Property or Services
Please note: While you are doing the review, please keep the prospective donor
happy by thanking them and letting them know that prior to acceptance of gifts,
we must go through a review process for liability purposes. Let them know
exactly when you will get back to them, and then be responsible and get back to
them by that date. If you have questions, contact the donor.
Name of donor:_______________________________ Phone # of donor:
_____________________________________
Description of donation:
_____________________________________________________________________________
Donors projected value of donation: $ _____________
QUESTIONS TO ASK YOURSELF AND OTHER DEPARTMENTS EFFECTED BY PROSPECTIVE
DONATION:
1. Is this something that the City/your department really needs and wants? Does
it support/fit a quaint, seaside village image?
2. Where will the item be placed and how will it get there? Will donor need
help from the City? If so, explain.
3. Who will maintain the item and at what cost?
   a. If your department is going to be responsible for maintenance, what are
the maintenance requirements?
   b. Will your department/the City be able to fund that cost over the life
span of the item?
4. What is the life span of the item? (for example a wood bench will last 3-
5 years)
   a. How will the property be disposed of at the end of the life span?
   b. Will the donor be notified? If yes, how?
5. If required, does your department have space to store it?
6. Does the item require insurance?
   a) If yes, does your department have a budget to pay for the insurance?
   (Note: Please contact the City Manager to be sure the gift does not require
insurance)
7. Does the item require electricity or any other utility to work?
   a) If yes, does your department have the appropriate utility connections?
   (Note: If you are not sure, please contact the Facilities Department to make
sure)
8. How will the donor be thanked?
9. Do you recommend that the City accept this gift? Please note any
reservations or conditions.
Approved:
_________________________________________________________________________________________
Signed by Department Head: ________________________________________ Date:
_________________________
Please note: If you have any questions or concerns, you should check with the
City Manager and Mayor prior to accepting the gift.
Please inform donor all donations to the City of Southport are NOT tax
deductible.
No gift of real estate will be accepted without prior written approval by the
City of Southport.
3.   Public Hearing; Zoning Re-Classification, Parcel #2210000613 on Rob Gandy
Boulevard from Planned Unit Development (PUD) to Light Industrial (LI)    RZ-
17-0412-01
4.   Public Hearing; Zoning Re-Classification for Five (5) Parcels Behind the
Howe Street Corridor from Split Zonings Residential/Business District/Multi-
Family    RZ-17-0410-01
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Powell to open the Public
Hearing. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   City Planner Lloyd explained the proposed request to rezone Parcel
#22210000613 on Rob Gandy Boulevard from Planned Unit Development (PUD) to
Light Industrial (LI). He reported that the Planning Board had reviewed the
request and found that the zoning map amendment is consistent with the CAMA
Core Land Use Plan. Mr. Lloyd stated that the Planning Board and staff
recommend that the Board of Aldermen approve the proposed zoning map amendment.
   No one from the public spoke.
   Responding to a query from Alderman Adams, City Planner Lloyd stated that no
negative responses were received about the proposed rezonings.
   City Planner Lloyd explained the proposed request to rezone five (5)
properties along the Howe Street Corridor between W. St. George and W. Owens
Street. He indicated the rezoning is the second phase of changing mistakenly
split zoned properties to a more appropriate zoning. He added that all property
owners were contacted. He reported that the Planning Board had reviewed the
request and found the zoning map amendment consistent with the CAMA Core Land
Use Plan. He stated that the Planning Board and staff recommend that the Board
of Aldermen approve the proposed zoning map amendment.
   No one from the public spoke.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Poole to close the Public
Hearing. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
5.   Public Hearing; Proposed Capital Project Budget, Wastewater Treatment
Plant
      Item moved to Agenda Item #10.
6.   Public Hearing; Proposed FY 2017-2018 Budget
   City Manager McDuffie reported that a balanced budget had been presented to
the Board and an interactive public forum was scheduled for Monday, June 12, 5:
00 p.m. in the Community Building.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to open Public Hearing.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   No one from the public spoke.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to close the Public
Hearing. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
7.   Consideration of Zoning Ordinance RZ-17-0412-01 on Rob Gandy Boulevard
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Powell to approve the zoning
map amendment ordinance rezoning parcel #2220000613 as described and consistent
with the CAMA Core Land Use Plan. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
ORDINANCE APPROVING A ZONING MAP AMENDMENT REZONING ONE PARCEL FROM PUD TO LI
   THAT WHEREAS, the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance, other
land use ordinances, and a zoning map that control land development within both
the City’s incorporated areas and within its extraterritorial area; and
   WHEREAS, in order to promote the public health, safety and general welfare
and to promote the best interest of the city and community, it is necessary for
the City Board of Aldermen from time to time to consider appropriate revisions,
modifications and additions to the city’s zoning map; and
   WHEREAS, the City Planner has prepared and submitted to the Planning Board a
favorable staff recommendation to rezone parcel 2220000613 from PUD to LI; and
   WHEREAS, the Planning Board has considered this matter and has recommended
that this proposed zoning be approved; and
   WHEREAS, pursuant to the NC General Statutes and city ordinances, a public
hearing, properly noticed, was held on June 8, 2017, before the Board of
Aldermen regarding this issue; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen hereby finds that the proposed zoning map
amendment is consistent with the Southport CAMA Land Use Plan; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that this zoning map amendment
is reasonable and in the public interest in that (i) the proposed rezoning of
the above property is compatible to adjacent uses, (ii) the proposed rezoning
will not have a noticeable impact on traffic circulation due to its location on
Rob Gandy Boulevard, (iii) and that the proposed property is an appropriate
location for the uses permitted under Light Industrial (LI);
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Southport Board of Aldermen
that
The Official Zoning Map of the City of Southport, an element of the Unified
Development Ordinance of the City, is amended by changing the zoning
classification of the below-described property from PUD to LI:
Tax Parcel ID Numbers of property to be rezoned: Parcel ID # 2220000613
This ordinance shall be effective upon its adoption, and the Official Zoning
Map of the City of Southport shall be revised accordingly.
This, the 8th day of June, 2017            City of Southport
                     BY: /s/ J.V. Dove, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
   8.   Consideration of Zoning Ordinance RZ 17-0410-01 Parcels Behind the Howe
      Street Corridor
   Alderman Mosteller motioned, second by Alderman Powell to approve the zoning
map amendment ordinance for five (5) parcels behind the Howe Street Corridor as
described and consistent with the CAMA Core Land Use Plan. Unanimous vote;
motion carried.
ORDINANCE APPROVING A ZONING MAP AMENDMENT REZONING PARCEL FROM MF/BD TO
STRICTLY BD
   THAT WHEREAS, the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance, other
land use ordinances, and a zoning map that control land development within both
the City’s incorporated areas and within its extraterritorial area; and
   WHEREAS, in order to promote the public health, safety and general welfare
and to promote the best interest of the city and community, it is necessary for
the City Board of Aldermen from time to time to consider appropriate revisions,
modifications and additions to the city’s zoning map; and
   WHEREAS, the City Planner has prepared and submitted to the Planning Board a
favorable staff recommendation to rezone parcel 237ED045 from MF/BD to strictly
BD; and
   WHEREAS, the Planning Board has considered this matter and has recommended
that this proposed zoning be approved; and
   WHEREAS, pursuant to the NC General Statutes and city ordinances, a public
hearing, properly noticed, was held on June 8, 2017 before the Board of
Aldermen regarding this issue; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen hereby finds that the proposed zoning map
amendment is consistent with the Southport CAMA Land Use Plan; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that this zoning map amendment
is reasonable and in the public interest in that (i) the proposed rezoning of
the above properties preserves current business areas, (ii) the proposed
rezoning of the above properties resolves the issue of split zoning and the
confusion that arises from it, (iii) and the impact to the adjacent property
owners and the surrounding community is reasonable;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Southport Board of Aldermen
that
The Official Zoning Map of the City of Southport, an element of the Unified
Development Ordinance of the City, is amended by changing the zoning
classification of the below-described properties from MF/BD to BD:
Tax Parcel ID Numbers of properties to be rezoned: 237ED045
This ordinance shall be effective upon its adoption, and the Official Zoning
Map of the City of Southport shall be revised accordingly.
This, the 8th day of June, 2017            City of Southport
                     BY: /s/ J.V. Dove, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
ORDINANCE APPROVING A ZONING MAP AMENDMENT REZONING TWO SPLIT ZONED PARCELS
FROM R-10/BD TO STRICTLY R-10
   THAT WHEREAS, the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance, other
land use ordinances, and a zoning map that control land development within both
the City’s incorporated areas and within its extraterritorial area; and
   WHEREAS, in order to promote the public health, safety and general welfare
and to promote the best interest of the city and community, it is necessary for
the City Board of Aldermen from time to time to consider appropriate revisions,
modifications and additions to the city’s zoning map; and
   WHEREAS, the City Planner has prepared and submitted to the Planning Board a
favorable staff recommendation to rezone parcels 237EF03201 and 237EF043 from
R-10/BD to strictly R-10; and
   WHEREAS, the Planning Board has considered this matter and has recommended
that this proposed zoning be approved; and
   WHEREAS, pursuant to the NC General Statutes and city ordinances, a public
hearing, properly noticed, was held on June 8, 2017 before the Board of
Aldermen regarding this issue; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen hereby finds that the proposed zoning map
amendment is consistent with the Southport CAMA Land Use Plan; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that this zoning map amendment
is reasonable and in the public interest in that (i) the proposed rezoning of
the above properties preserves current residential area, (ii) the proposed
rezoning of the above properties resolves the issue of split zoning and the
confusion that arises from it, (iii) and the impact to the adjacent property
owners and the surrounding community is reasonable;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Southport Board of Aldermen
that
The Official Zoning Map of the City of Southport, an element of the Unified
Development Ordinance of the City, is amended by changing the zoning
classification of the below-described properties from R-10/BD to R-10:
Tax Parcel ID Numbers of properties to be rezoned: 237EF03201 and 237EF043
This ordinance shall be effective upon its adoption, and the Official Zoning
Map of the City of Southport shall be revised accordingly.
This, the 8th day of June, 2017               City of Southport
                        BY: /s/ J.V. Dove, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
ORDINANCE APPROVING A ZONING MAP AMENDMENT REZONING PARCEL FROM R-10/BD TO
STRICTLY BD
   THAT WHEREAS, the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance, other
land use ordinances, and a zoning map that control land development within both
the City’s incorporated areas and within its extraterritorial area; and
   WHEREAS, in order to promote the public health, safety and general welfare
and to promote the best interest of the city and community, it is necessary for
the City Board of Aldermen from time to time to consider appropriate revisions,
modifications and additions to the city’s zoning map; and
   WHEREAS, the City Planner has prepared and submitted to the Planning Board a
favorable staff recommendation to rezone parcel 237EF033 from R-10/BD to
strictly BD; and
   WHEREAS, the Planning Board has considered this matter and has recommended
that this proposed zoning be approved; and
   WHEREAS, pursuant to the NC General Statutes and city ordinances, a public
hearing, properly noticed, was held on June 8, 2017 before the Board of
Aldermen regarding this issue; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen hereby finds that the proposed zoning map
amendment is consistent with the Southport CAMA Land Use Plan; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that this zoning map amendment
is reasonable and in the public interest in that (i) the proposed rezoning of
the above properties preserves current business areas, (ii) the proposed
rezoning of the above properties resolves the issue of split zoning and the
confusion that arises from it, (iii) and the impact to the adjacent property
owners and the surrounding community is reasonable;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Southport Board of Aldermen
that
The Official Zoning Map of the City of Southport, an element of the Unified
Development Ordinance of the City, is amended by changing the zoning
classification of the below-described properties from R-10/BD to BD:
Tax Parcel ID Numbers of properties to be rezoned: 237EF033
This ordinance shall be effective upon its adoption, and the Official Zoning
Map of the City of Southport shall be revised accordingly.
This, the 8th day of June, 2017            City of Southport
                     BY: /s/ J.V. Dove, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
ORDINANCE APPROVING A ZONING MAP AMENDMENT REZONING PARCEL FROM MF/BD TO
STRICTLY MF
   THAT WHEREAS, the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance, other
land use ordinances, and a zoning map that control land development within both
the City’s incorporated areas and within its extraterritorial area; and
   WHEREAS, in order to promote the public health, safety and general welfare
and to promote the best interest of the city and community, it is necessary for
the City Board of Aldermen from time to time to consider appropriate revisions,
modifications and additions to the city’s zoning map; and
   WHEREAS, the City Planner has prepared and submitted to the Planning Board a
favorable staff recommendation to rezone Parcel 237ED042 from MF/BD to strictly
MF ; and
   WHEREAS, the Planning Board has considered this matter and has recommended
that this proposed zoning be approved; and
   WHEREAS, pursuant to the NC General Statutes and city ordinances, a public
hearing, properly noticed, was held on June 8, 2017 before the Board of
Aldermen regarding this issue; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen hereby finds that the proposed zoning map
amendment is consistent with the Southport CAMA Land Use Plan; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that this zoning map amendment
is reasonable and in the public interest in that (i) the proposed rezoning of
the above properties preserves current residential areas, (ii) the proposed
rezoning of the above properties resolves the issue of split zoning and the
confusion that arises from it, (iii) and the impact to the adjacent property
owners and the surrounding community is reasonable;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Southport Board of Aldermen
that
The Official Zoning Map of the City of Southport, an element of the Unified
Development Ordinance of the City, is amended by changing the zoning
classification of the below-described properties from MF/BD to MF:
Tax Parcel ID Numbers of properties to be rezoned: 237ED042
This ordinance shall be effective upon its adoption, and the Official Zoning
Map of the City of Southport shall be revised accordingly.
This, the 8th day of June, 2017            City of Southport
                     BY: /s/ J.V. Dove, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
9.   Consideration of Purchasing Capacity on County Sewer Plant
   City Manager McDuffie presented a renewed offer from Brunswick County to
sell 750,000 gallons of sewer capacity at the West Brunswick Regional
Wastewater Reclamation System, to the city. He explained that the allocation
purchase was an option because other municipalities that own capacity in the
county’s 6.5 million-gallon-per-day (GPD) use only a fraction of that flow. He
cited Oak Island as an example, pointing out that Oak Island owns 3 million GPD
but averages 800,000 gallons.
   Referring to the price comparison provided in the agenda packet, City
Manager McDuffie advised that Norris & Tunstall Consulting Engineers calculated
the city’s cost to build its own wastewater treatment plant and calculated the
city’s cost to purchase capacity from the county.
Price Comparison For One Million Gallons of
Wastewater Capacity
                    Current    Expand County    Build        Expand County
                                                Infiltration
                    Cost       for 750k gallons Basin        1 Million gallons
Construction        $0         $25,760,000      $19,800,000  $34,350,000
Estimate
Most likely     1   0.00       1.53%            1.53%       1.53%
Interest rate
Total interest      $0         $4,368,959       $3,333,581   $5,783,258
over 20 years
Annual payment      $750,000   $1,506,448       $1,156,679   $2,006,663
for 20 years
Annual O&M      2&3 $401,500   $401,500         $1,500,000   $401,500
estimate
Total Estimated     $1,151,500 $1,907,948       $2,656,679   $2,408,163
Annual Cost
Current # of        2800       2800             2800         2800
Customers
Cost Per Month      $34        $57              $79          $72
Per Customer
1. 1.53 is a not to exceed rate.
2. County O&M is $2.2 per 1,000 gallons times 500,000 gallons per day
3. Neither number includes collection system O&M
   City Manager McDuffie pointed out that for the city to build and operate its
own one-million GPD plant, the cost would increase from $34 to $79 per customer
per month. The cost to purchase 750,000 gallons of capacity from the county
would be $57 per customer per month.
   City Manager McDuffie stated that staff recommends that the Board accept the
county’s offer to purchase 750,000 GPD capacity, as the most cost-effective
option. He explained that no matter what the city does, the cost to provide
sewer in the future is going to be more. He noted that currently the city
leases capacity and that lease will expire in 2019.
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to purchase wastewater
capacity in the Brunswick County Sewer Plant.
DISCUSSION
   Alderman Powell asked for clarification of the cost. City Manager McDuffie
responded that the city’s cost to purchase the capacity was estimated to be
$25.7 million, along with an operation and maintenance cost of $400,000 per
year.
   Alderman Powell disagreed with the estimated cost per customer, stating that
in his 50 years’ experience dealing with sewer and wastewater treatment, the
cost would be in the $60 range. He stated that he could not support paying the
county $27 million for 750,000 GPD when the city could build its own one-
million-GPD plant for $20 million. He referenced a presentation that showed an
increase in flow for Southport in October attributed to Hurricane Matthew
impacts.
   Alderman Powell pointed out that the state requires a wastewater treatment
operation to begin expansion plans when the capacity reaches 80 percent of the
total capacity. He said that the decision on sewer was the most important
decision that the city will make or has made in 100 years. He stated his
opinion that he wants to control his own destiny – not give it to someone else
to control.
   Acknowledging that Brunswick County officials fielded questions from the
aldermen about the proposed agreement, Alderman Coring asked how rainfall
affected the flow and how that could impact the allocation.
   Ms. Ann Hardy, Manager, Brunswick County, stated that the county looked at
the plant as a whole when calculating the flow ratio. She added that plant
participants would need to exceed 80 percent of 6.5 million GPD total
capacities before the County would need to begin planning an expansion. She
emphasized that the county would do everything possible to control costs during
the construction and design process. She stated appreciation for the
partnership with the city as a lease participant in the last seven years and
she stated her hope that the county can continue to provide good service to the
city.
   Ms. Hardy assured the Board that the city’s sewer district would stay intact
and that the current county customers in Rivermist would become full city
customers in exchange for county servicing the planned 88 acre development at
NC 211/133, Southport Crossing .
   City Attorney Isenberg stated that a map of the city’s sewer district would
be included in the 30 year contract. He added that the contract would have
automatic 10-year renewals, with a 3-year termination by either party.
   Aye:   Aldermen Poole, Mosteller, Pukenas, Adams, Coring
   Nay:   Alderman Powell
   Motion carried 5-1
   (contract on file in the Clerk’s office)
10.   Consideration of Proposed Capital Project Budget
      Due to the vote for Agenda Item #9, consideration of Item #10 and #5 was
deleted.
11.   Consideration of Street Lighting Policy
   Expressing appreciation for all the hard work the committee and staff put
into developing a street lighting policy, Alderman Coring motioned, second by
Alderman Poole to adopt the Street Lighting Policy. Unanimous vote; motion
carried.
STREET LIGHTING POLICY
Adopted by Board: (June 8, 2017) Effective: (June 8, 2017)
POLICY PURPOSE
The purpose of this policy statement is to adopt an official policy for the
City of Southport pertaining to the installation of street lights for the
purposes of traffic safety and crime control.
COVERAGE
This policy, upon adoption, shall apply to all public rights of way within the
municipal limits of the City of Southport and any public rights of way annexed
in the future until such time that the Policy Statement is altered, modified,
or rescinded by the Board of Aldermen.
DEFINITIONS
Streets in the City of Southport will be defined as the following:
HOA/POA Subdivision Streets : Areas where street lights will be provided by
Homeowners Associations and Property Owners Associations.
Waterfront and Downtown Area Streets : Streets in the Waterfront Area, Yacht
Basin and Downtown Central Business District as designated on the Southport
Street Lighting map.
Residential Streets : Streets in primarily residential areas as designated on
the Southport Street Lighting map.
Main Roadway Corridor Streets : Main roadway corridor streets as designated on
the Southport Street Lighting map.
Walkway Lights on Public Right-Of-Way
POLICY FOR LIGHTING ON ALL STREETS
The City of Southport Board of Aldermen hereby establishes the following policy
applicable to all streets:
Relocation
Residents along a street may petition to request the relocation of a street
light provided that the proposed street light location meets City standards and
the relocation is approved by the City, and is not opposed by any persons
within the area of influence. The City shall determine the area of influence on
a case by case basis. Relocation cost and all facilities abandonment costs must
be paid in full to the City, in advance, by the resident(s) requesting the
relocation.
Requests for Additional Lighting
Residents along a street may petition to request additional street lighting
beyond that already installed, provided current street lighting does not meet
City standards, and the requested additional street lighting is approved by the
City and is not opposed by any persons within the area of influence. The City
shall determine the area of influence on a case by case basis. After approval,
the City will process the request and pay all costs associated with street
light installation.
STREET SPECIFIC POLICIES
The Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport hereby establishes the following
policy applicable to specific types of streets:
Streets in a HOA /POA in a Subdivision: Street lights will be provided by
Homeowners Associations and Property Owners Associations and will be paid for
by these entities.
The City will not pay for any costs associated with the lighting of private
streets or drives.
Street light fixture types and locations in HOA/POA Subdivision areas must be
approved by the City of    Southport.
Will be minimum 70 Watt LED and a maximum of 300 feet apart.
B. Street Lights on Waterfront and Downtown Area Streets: Street lights on
these streets shall conform to the following standards:
Street lights will be on concrete poles with bell-shaped lights and a 50W LED
bulb.
Street lights will be lit at all intersections and an average of 150 feet
intervals.
Street lights shall be as close to lateral property lines as possible, or where
the vertical or horizontal street alignment or natural features necessitate
shorter or longer spacing intervals.
C. Street Lights on Residential Area Streets : Street lights on residential
area streets as shall conform to the following standards:
Street lights will be lit at all intersections and an average of 300 feet
intervals.
Street lights shall be as close to lateral property lines as possible, or where
the vertical or horizontal street alignment or natural features necessitate
shorter or longer spacing intervals.
All fixtures on residential streets shall be at least 70 watts and no more than
80 Watt LEDs
Fixtures shall be on aluminum poles twenty-five (25) feet in height on a 6 foot
arm.
D. Street Lights on Main Roadway Corridors : Main roadway corridor street
lights shall conform to the following standards:
Street lights will be lit at all intersections and at 140 feet intervals.
Street lights shall be as close to lateral property lines as possible, or where
the vertical or horizontal street alignment or natural features necessitate
shorter or longer spacing intervals.
All fixtures along thoroughfares shall be at least 100 and no more than 110
watt LEDs.
Fixtures shall be on aluminum poles twenty-five (25) feet in height on a 6 foot
arm.
E. Walkway Lights on Public Right-Of-Way : Walkway Lights shall conform to the
following standards:
Walkway lights will be lit at 90 feet intervals.
Walkway lights shall be as close to lateral property lines as possible, or
where the vertical or horizontal street alignment or natural features
necessitate shorter or longer spacing intervals.
All fixtures along walkways shall be at least 75 watts and no more than 85 watt
LEDs and will be dark sky fixtures.
Fixtures shall be on aluminum poles twelve (12) feet in height with a
decorative design.
12.   Appointments to Planning Board
   Alderman Poole reported that there were a large number of interested
applicants for five (5) seats on the Planning Board. She indicated that she,
Alderman Mosteller and Tish Hatem, Planning Board Chairman, met with every
applicant and did interviews. Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman
Mosteller to re-appoint Kay Jolliff, appoint Daphne Green to 3-year full city
seat, and appoint Richard Bandera to fill the city alternate term vacated by
Matt Green and re-appoint Scott Jones and Donnie Joyner to 3-year Extra
Territorial Jurisdiction (ETJ) seats upon approval of the Brunswick County
Commissioners. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Noting that there was a vacancy on the Board of Adjustment, Alderman Poole
motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to appoint Pete Haislip for that
position. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
13.   Appointments to Beautification Committee
   Alderman Mosteller reported that there were four (4) openings on the
Beautification Committee. She motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to re-
appoint Shirley Snyder and Tom Lombardi and to appoint new members Joy Mitchell
and Diane LeBosse. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
14.   Appointments to Forestry Committee
   Alderman Mosteller reported that there were four (4) slots on the Forestry
Committee and just two (2) applications were received. She motioned, second by
Alderman Coring to appoint Margaret “Peg” Ingalls and Patrice Frink to the
Forestry Committee for 2-year terms. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
15.   Budget Amendment #6; Waterfront and Atlantic Street Park Bulkhead Repairs
   City Manager McDuffie reported that FEMA had written and agreed to reimburse
the City for repairs of Waterfront Park and Atlantic Avenue CAMA Beach Access
for damages sustained during Hurricane Matthew. Noting that the tourist season
was not the ideal time to be making repairs at the waterfront, City Manager
McDuffie pointed out that there was a one-year time frame after the event for
repairs to be made with an exemption for a Major CAMA permit. He noted that the
one-year extension period would expire in early October. He stated that a Major
CAMA Permit could be pursued and would require a significant amount of
engineering, notification to multiple State agencies and a 90-day waiting
period. He stated that there was no guarantee that all State agencies would
approve the project. He stated that staff recommended doing the repairs now.
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Poole to move the project ahead
and adopt Budget Amendment #6. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1817_855x840.jpg]
Budget Amendment
Fiscal Year 2016-2017
Budget Amendment #6
WHEREAS the City of Southport sustained damage from Hurricane Matthew to the
Waterfront bulkhead and the South Atlantic St bulkhead, and FEMA has agreed to
reimbursement for the cost to repair at $$108,450; and will need fund balance
to be appropriated to spend on these repairs. And
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2016-2017 needs to be amended to
reflect the use of these funds;
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2016-2017 shall be
amended as follows:
General Fund                        Increase   
   Appropriated Fund Balance
   10-00-3991-0000            $108,650
   General Fund Expenditures
   Parks & Rec Department Capital Improvements
   10-80-6120-2600            $ 108,650
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, June 8, 2017
                  /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor            
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
   16.   Budget Amendment #7; Police
   City Manager McDuffie explained that a budget amendment was needed to make
payroll to the end of the budget year for the Police Department due to an
overrun in overtime and the retirement of an officer.
   Alderman Adams motioned, second by Alderman Poole to adopt Budget Amendment
#7. Unanimous vote; motion carried.   
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1820_855x840.jpg]
Budget Amendment
Fiscal Year 2016-2017
Budget Amendment #7
WHEREAS the City of Southport incurred expenses for overtime in the Police
Department,
WHEREAS there are sufficient funds in the Fund Balances to cover these
expenditures;
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2016-2017 needs to be amended to
reflect the use of these funds from Fund Balances;
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2016-2017 shall be
amended as follows:
 
General Fund       
Revenues            Increase Description
10-00-3991-0000            46,123      General Fund Appropriations   
 
Expenses Increase Description
10-10-4310-0000         23,900      Salaries
10-10-4310-0700          1,195      401k
10-10-4310-0900          1,828      FICA
10-10-4310-1000          7,800      LEO
10-10-4310-0400         11,400      Separation Allowance
            46,123      Total Expenditure
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, June 8, 2017.
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor         
/s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk   
STAFF REPORTS
   Reports included in the agenda packet.
17.   Closed Session Pursuant to N.C.G.S. 143-318.11(a)(6) for Consideration of
a Personnel Matter
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Coring to go into closed session
pursuant to N.C.G.S. 143-318.11(a)(6) for consideration of a personnel matter.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Return to Open Session
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Adams to come out of closed
session. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Mayor Dove reported that the Board met in closed session with the City
Attorney regarding a personnel matter.
BOARD COMMENTS
   Board members expressed appreciation to Mr. McDuffie for his service to the
City of Southport and wished him well in his future endeavors.
   At the request of Alderman Powell, Alderman Poole motioned, second by
Alderman Coring to excuse Alderman Powell from the remainder of the meeting.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   At the request of Alderman Mosteller, Alderman Coring motioned, second by
Alderman Poole to excuse Alderman Mosteller from the remainder of the meeting.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   At the request of Alderman Adams, Alderman Poole motioned, second by
Alderman Pukenas to excuse Alderman Adams from the remainder of the meeting.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
RECESS  
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Poole to recess the meeting to
Friday, June 9, 10:30 a.m. in the City Hall 2nd floor conference room.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
                        /s/ J.V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
JUNE 9, 2017
RECESSED SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN   RECESSED SESSION MINUTES
CITY HALL           JUNE 9, 2017
1029 N. HOWE STREET SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Rick Pukenas, Todd Coring
EXCUSED:         Aldermen Karen Mosteller, Jim Powell, Nelson Adams
STAFF PRESENT:      Kerry McDuffie, City Manager
            Michele Windham, City Clerk
A)   Call to Order
Mayor Dove called the meeting back to order at 10:36 a.m.
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Coring to go into Closed Session
pursuant to N.C.G.S. 143-318.11(a)(6) for consideration of a personnel matter.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Return to Open Session – 11:10
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Poole to come out of Closed
Session. Unanimous vote; motion carried.   
   Mayor Dove reported that the Board met in Closed Session to discuss
qualifications of an Interim City Manager.
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to hire Mr. John Bauer
as Interim City Manager, effective Monday, June 19 and to authorize the Mayor
to discuss salary and work schedule with Mr. Bauer. Unanimous vote; motion
carried.
Adjourn
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Poole to adjourn the meeting.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
JUNE 12, 2017
SPECIAL SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN   SPECIAL SESSION MINUTES
                   JUNE 12, 2017
1029 N. HOWE STREET SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Karen Mosteller, Rick Pukenas
STAFF PRESENT:      Chris May, Cape Fear Council of Government
            Tanya Shannon, Deputy City Clerk      
A)   Call to Order
Mayor Dove called the meeting to order at 4:00 p.m.
   Mr. Chris May, Cape Fear Council of Governments (COG), provided an agenda
for the meeting, noting that the desired outcome of the meeting is to develop
an attribute list for a permanent city manager and to discuss the status of the
selection process. He noted that Alderman Poole had prepared a tool for the
process and time table. Mr. May stated he would prepare and provide an
attribute list outlined by the Board’s recommendations and give the list to the
Deputy City Clerk for distribution to the Board. He advised the Board to also
take into consideration those attributes they did not want in a manager.
   Quality traits were discussed:
Ethics/Integrity; a small town manager must have a moral compass and say what
they mean, mean what they say and do what they say
Good Social/People Skills
Maintain good written and verbal communications with staff and Board
Ability to create good team concept; be a leader and lead by example
Seven (7) years’ experience in city/county government
Five (5) years’ management experience
Who and how to access resources; grants, etc.
Experience with ElectriCities and water and sewer systems
Knowledge of budget process and financial reporting
Quality interaction with private, civic and volunteer organizations
Current in information technology
Versed in emergency operations relative to a coastal community; CAMA, FEMA
Ability to work well with the Board
   Mr. May indicated that the above would be used to craft interview questions
along with examples he received from the N.C. School of Government.
   Noting that the position posting stated applications would be received until
the position is filled, Mr. May noted there were 19 candidates to date. Mayor
Dove indicated the position had been advertised with the NC League of
Municipalities, in the State Port Pilot and on the city’s web page. Mr. May
stated that once a month the COG sends out a newsletter that lists open
positions. All applications were copied and provided to Board members for
review. Mayor Dove stated that a special meeting would be held on Wednesday,
June 21, 6:00 p.m. to select specific candidates to interview.
   Mr. May asked if applicants would be compensated for travel expenses to and
from an interview. Alderman Poole explained that the Board had not compensated
applicants in the past. She added that the Board had provided for phone
interviews if an applicant was unable to appear for an interview and during one
city manager search, when a large number of applications were received, the
Board provided three (3) questions to be answered via a video.
   It was pointed out that moving expenses would be paid up to a specific
amount (provided by the Human Resources Department) to the chosen applicant and
the employment contract spelled out salary and benefits. It was noted that an
employment contract is open for negotiations.
   Interview techniques and format were discussed along with restricted
questions that cannot be asked. Mr. May provided and reviewed a listing of
sample questions. He emphasized sticking to the facts. He stated he would be
happy to assist with the interview process.
   Alderman Poole reported that Board members were in the process of rating the
applicants in order to determine who to interview and would meet June 21 to
narrow the search and schedule interviews. She discussed past city manager
search processes utilized by the Board, including videos. 
   Mr. May suggested scheduling interviews for an hour, possibly requesting
hand written responses to questions. He speculated getting through the process
and having a manager on board by Labor Day.
Adjourn
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Tanya Crews-Beecher, Deputy Clerk
JUNE 12, 2017
PUBLIC FORUM MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  PUBLIC FORUM MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING JUNE 12, 2017
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Karen Mosteller, Rick Pukenas, Todd
Coring, Jim Powell, Nelson Adams
STAFF PRESENT:      Chris May, Cape Fear Council of Government
            Tanya Shannon, Deputy City Clerk
            B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
            Thomas Lloyd, Planner
            Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
            Randy Jones, Tourism Director
            Charles Drew, Fire Chief
            Gary Smith, Police Chief
A)   Call to Order
Mayor Dove called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
   Mayor Dove announced that the purpose of the public forum was to give
everyone an opportunity to speak about the City of Southport proposed FY 2017-
2018 budget.
   Mayor Dove introduced Mr. Chris May, Executive Director, Cape Fear Council
of Government, prior municipal and county manager and professional facilitator
who would mediate the forum.
   Mr. May indicated he would call the seven (7) people who signed up to talk
first and then open the floor to anyone else who wished to speak. He asked that
comments be limited to five (5) minutes. He stated that copies of the budget
ordinance had been provided as a handout and he read the State mandated City
Manager Budget Message.
June 8, 2017
Mayor Dove and Board of Aldermen
1029 N. Howe Street
Southport, NC 28461
Re: Budget Message Update 2017-2018
Dear Mayor Dove and Board,
After the May 30th Budget Workshop, with the Board of Aldermen, the staff has
revised the budget to reflect the Board’s wishes. The updated budget reflects
the following:
The proposed 2017-2018 Budget is a balanced budget for the City of Southport.
The budget proposes a 28 cents per $100 of evaluation tax rate. There was a
slight increase in the tax base from new construction and the Southport Marina
being purchased by a private entity versus being owned by the state of North
Carolina which does not pay property taxes. There is no change in fees for
recycling or yard waste. The Planning and Zoning Department is working on the
fee schedule to make improvements to the planning, zoning and inspection fees.
The budget is balanced without appropriating funds from fund balance. Also,
there is no proceeds budgeted from loans for capital projects other than the
Fire Department equipment.
The Water and Sewer fund is balanced with enough funds to cover the
depreciation as indicated by the most recent audit. The revenue does include
the increase in rates as adopted by the Board at the May 11, 2017 Board
meeting. The Water and Sewer Budget is a solid responsible budget that proposes
reasonable capital replacement.
The Electrical Budget is also a solid responsible budget. It continues to
support the effort to underground the electrical system with no change in
rates.
The budget has a COLA (cost of living adjustment) for employees of 2.1%. This
is based on the change in the Consumer Price Index for the calendar year 2016.
Also, there is a 1% total salaries for merit raises. The cost for health care
will increase 10%. Considering under the old health insurance plan Southport
has a 15% rate increase for 12 consecutive years, this is a good thing.
The Budget has no new employee positions other than the 2 in the Fire
Department. With the loss of revenue from Wells Fargo leasing the upstairs at
the 1029 building and their share of the common area maintenance negatively
impacts the General Fund by $150,000. Also, the city lost the revenue from the
City Boat Docks. The capital expenditure added to the General Fund are:
Caviness Park improvements         $ 12,000
Franklin Sq. Gallery building improvements      $ 42,000
Brunswick Family Assistance         $ 2,000
Greenway to Walmart            $ 30,000
2 Police Ford Explorers $38,000 each      $ 76,000
Key fob entry for Police Department      $ 3,800
Parking Atlantic Street Park         $ 7,000           
Walkway at Garrison            $ 2,500
Community Building HVAC         $ 15,000
UDO Update by COG            $ 10,000
TOTAL                  $ 200,300
This budget continues the great services for the citizens at a reasonable cost.
Respectfully submitted,
Kerry McDuffie
City Manager
   Mr. May pointed out that the Board would receive input from citizens during
the meeting and take the comments under consideration at a budget meeting
Tuesday, June 13. He pointed out that the budget meeting is open to the public.
   Ms. Amy Brown, 116 N. Howe Street, and member of the Associated Artists of
Southport stated her support of the proposed tax increase so that the City has
the funds in the budget to do the maintenance and repairs to Franklin Square
Art Gallery. Additionally, she stated support for the greenway to Walmart, two
(2) Police Department vehicles, waterfront repairs and Caviness Park
improvements. She stated her opinion that all citizens want to see Southport
well maintained and safe so that people can do the activities they love to do,
that the city thrives with the arts, where the residents are proud and people
want to come visit.
   Mr. John Gordon, 5920 Dutchman Creek Road, commended city staff and aldermen
for the work put into developing the budget. He stated his concerns about
residents that could not afford a tax increase. He suggested a graduated rate
increase dependent on the property value.
   Ms. Lowe Davis, 504 W. Brunswick Street, reminded the Board to use their
microphones in order for the audience to hear them.
   Mr. Gerald Donaldson, 5990 Dutchman Creek Road, seven (7) year city
resident, stated his support for the proposed tax increase. He cited multiple
infrastructure projects that need to be addressed by the city and he expressed
support for the greenway and waterfront restoration.
   Ms. Molla Donaldson, 5990 Dutchman Creek Road, stated her support for the
proposed 28 cent tax rate. Additionally, Ms. Donaldson supported the greenway.
   Ms. Carolyn Pryor, 5900 Dutchman Creek Road, went on the record in support
of the proposed tax increase and the Greenway.   
   Mr. Henry Singley, 113 W. West, asked what the plans are for the proposed
tax increase and if the city has a long term plan to address failing
infrastructure, such as a Bay Street sink hole, Franklin Square Gallery, and
former City Hall. Mayor Dove advised Mr. Singly to see the City Planner, Mr.
Lloyd. Alderman Coring stated that there is also a strategic plan for Parks &
Recreation and he acknowledged delays in capital projects and explained that
the Bay Street repair is planned for after the tourist season.
   Ms. Linda Pukenas, 119 N. Lord Street, stated her support for the proposed
tax increase to allow capital improvements. Additionally, she stated support
for the greenway project.
   Ms. Mary Jean Martin, “MJ”, 214 W. Nash Street, asked when taxes were last
raised. Mayor Dove stated that the tax rate was not raised when the property
valuation was changed in 2007. He shared his experience upon moving to
Southport 37 years ago and that the tax rate at that time was $.58 cents per
$100 valuation and the rate has gone down ever since. Ms. Martin shared her
observations that maintenance and repair to the city’s infrastructure is dire
and the modest proposed tax increase is prudent and timely.
   Ms. Yvonne Moody, 609 Marsh Grass Court, urged the Board to establish a fund
for maintenance of properties in a timely manner so that the current neglect is
not repeated.
   Mr. Woody Wilson, 502 W. Brunswick Street, stated his appreciation for
everything staff and the Board have done to prepare the budget. He stated the
Board needed to be better stewards of city resources and he supported the
proposed tax increase. He discussed beginning the process of encouraging State
Representatives to pursue a “user tax” for Southport, similar to the Dosher
Hospital User Tax.
   Expressing support for the Board, Mr. Tony Goldman, 407 W. Brown Street,
inquired about the status of the proposed ½ cent Prepared Meals Tax. Mr. May
referred Mr. Goldman to the North Carolina League of Municipalities webpage,
nclm.org, in order to track the status of Bills in the Legislature. Mr. May
also recommended contacting State Senator Bill Rabon.
   Mayor Dove thanked Mr. May for facilitating the meeting and thanked the
audience for providing input.
   He announced that Mayor’s Day would be held Thursday, June 15, 4:00 – 5:30
p.m. in the Fire Substation, 111 E. Nash Street.
   He announced that the Board would meet Tuesday, June 13, 5:30 p.m. in the
Fire Department EOC, 1011 N. Howe Street.
Adjourn
   Mayor Dove adjourned the meeting.
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Tanya Crews-Beecher, Deputy Clerk
JUNE 13, 2017
SPECIAL SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN   SPECIAL SESSION MINUTES
FIRE HEADQUARTERS   JUNE 13, 2017
1011 N. HOWE STREET SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Karen Mosteller, Rick Pukenas,
            Todd Coring, Jim Powell, Nelson Adams
STAFF PRESENT:      Chris May, Cape Fear Council of Government
            Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
            Tanya Shannon, Deputy City Clerk
            B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
            Thomas Lloyd, Planner
            Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
            Randy Jones, Tourism Director
            Charles Drew, Fire Chief
            Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
A)   Call to Order
Mayor Dove called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
   Chief Drew gave the invocation.
C)   Approval of Agenda
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to approve the
agenda. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
AGENDA
Discussion of Proposed FY 2017-2018 Budget
   Mayor Dove opened the floor for comments.
   Alderman Pukenas proposed a 5-cent increase on the property tax rate noting
that the previously discussed $.344 cents increase would only cover the basic
needs. He pointed out that the state is requiring improvement in the city’s
general fund balance. He stated he felt the additional money could be used for
that purpose.
   Alderman Poole stated she felt the issue of raising taxes needed more
consideration. She said that she had reviewed the budget multiple times and did
not want to be that girl that increases taxes. She suggested going through the
budget to determine if it could be tightened and what the city has to have.
   Alderman Adams stated he would not vote in favor of an increase in taxes. He
pointed out that property owners pay a hospital tax, the County may be raising
the fire fees, and Southport is considering going up on water and sewer rates.
He stated his opinion that some budget cutting can be done and he suggested an
in depth study on the amount of money the city needs and do more than a
temporary “band aid fix.” He stated the tax rate may need to go up 10 – 15
cents. He emphasized that there is a faction in town that cannot bear the
financial burden. He stated the city’s only obligation was to make repairs to
Franklin Square Art Gallery and funding for that project could be found by
making cuts in the budget.
   Alderman Powell agreed with comments made by Aldermen Poole & Adams. He
shared his opinion that past generations had made Southport a place that
everyone (outsiders) wanted to come to. He stated that the city needs to look
after its long-time residents. He said he felt the city’s needs could be met if
the Board went through the budget and made cuts. He likened the budget to a
wish list and the only obligation of the city was to do repairs to Franklin
Square Art Gallery.
   Alderman Coring stated he was “riding the fence” on increasing property
taxes. He noted that the idea of raising taxes had just come up in the past
couple weeks and he recalled during his first term that the Board said no
raising taxes. He commented that it had been quite some time since the city had
raised taxes. He said he looked at the needs and wants of the budget and he
struggled with how the city was going to meet its needs and continue to provide
services. Noting Ms. Mosteller’s previous remarks, he emphasized that the city
needs to take steps to establish a capital/maintenance plan for all of its
buildings and facilities. He discussed the public perception that the Board is
to blame for the shortfall, the desire for more accountability and that there
are loopholes and overtures in the budget that he has concerns about. He
acknowledged the urgency of the situation but was not ready to say yes to
raising taxes.
   Alderman Mosteller stated her appreciation for citizens that attended the
June 12 public forum. She spoke about the suggestion to tier taxes and her
research results that such an approach would not be permitted under state law.
She did say that the state has a Homestead Tax Exemption of 50% off county and
city taxes with no required pay back for long-time residents age 65 and older
or 100% disabled and the city could assist people in applying for the
exemption. She suggested providing the Homestead Tax Exemption information and
the city’s offer to assist in the process on the monthly electric bills. She
explained that $ .5 cents on the $100 valuation would amount to $4.17 a month
per $100,000 valuation. She pointed out that the capital improvement items in
the budget, she sees not as wants but needs. She suggested looking again at
overtime and making sure the policy is enforced, i.e., prior written approval.
She noted that there had been no tax increase since 2009, and the sewer rate
increase is a break even from years of being undercharged. She expressed her
concerns about receiving a budget with no monies for capital improvement which
is problematic for running the city.
   Alderman Adams reiterated his comments about an in-depth budget review to
decide if a tax increase should be 5 cents or 10 cents, prepare the citizens
for it and leave it there for some time. He pointed out that $12,000 in Police
Overtime is expended during the 4th of July and he cautioned “beating up”
overtime unless the city withdraws itself from public activities.
   Mayor Dove talked about the change in the character of Southport and the
affluent people coming to the area, displacement of long time Southport
citizens and loss of jobs that supported them, the crab industry, fishing,
poggy boats. He stated that Southport now supports the tourism industry. He
encouraged the Board to think about it and the people the 5 cents could affect.
   Alderman Pukenas motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to raise the city’s
tax rate by 5 cents on the $100 valuation.
   Aye:   Aldermen Pukenas, Mosteller
   Nay:   Aldermen Adams, Powell, Coring, Poole
   Motion failed 4-2
Interim City Manager
   Mayor Dove reported that an interim city manager candidate recommended by
the Cape Fear Council of Government (COG) was unable to accept the position due
to family obligations.
   Mayor Dove stated that the Board also considered contracting with the Raben
Group but decided not to pursue that option.
   Mayor Dove stated that another recommendation from COG, Mr. John Bauer, a
retired county and city manager, met the city’s qualifications and could work
for the city on a part-time basis.
   Mayor Dove pointed out that Chris May, Executive Director of COG, had agreed
to serve as acting city manager per state law, from the minute City Manager
McDuffie left, until an interim manager comes on board. Mr. May indicated that
there was no charge to the city for the COG service.
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Coring, to hire Mr. John Bauer
as the interim city manager, at $1,113.60 a week which includes travel,
starting Monday, June 19 and for Mr. May to serve as acting city manager until
Mr. Bauer arrives. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   City Attorney Isenberg stated that there is a legal requirement to have a
balanced budget in place by June 30. He recommended scheduling a workshop and a
budget meeting.
   Mayor Dove instructed department heads to review their budgets and make any
cuts possible.
RECESS
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to recess the meeting to
Saturday, June 17, 9:00 a.m. in the Fire Headquarters EOC. Unanimous vote;
motion carried.
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Tanya Crews-Beecher, Deputy Clerk
JUNE 17, 2017
RECESSED SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN   RECESSED SESSION MINUTES
FIRE HEADQUARTERS   JUNE 17, 2017
1011 N. HOWE STREET SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Karen Mosteller, Rick Pukenas,
            Todd Coring, Jim Powell, Nelson Adams
STAFF PRESENT:      John Bauer, Interim City Manager
            Tanya Shannon, Deputy City Clerk
            Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
            B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
            Thomas Lloyd, Planner
            Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
            Randy Jones, Tourism Director
            Charles Drew, Fire Chief
            Gary Smith, Police Chief
            David Fox, Public Works Director
A)   Call to Order
Mayor Dove called the meeting back to order at 9:00 a.m.
B)   Invocation
   Chief Drew gave the invocation.
AGENDA
Budget Discussion
   Mayor Dove opened the floor for discussion of the proposed FY 2017-2018
budget.
   Noting the Police Department requested two new vehicles, Alderman Adams
suggested looking at budget cuts in the department. He recommended replacing
only the vehicle that was wrecked and using the $17,000 insurance proceeds to
offset the cost. Finance Director Trexler indicated that a budget amendment
would be required to properly appropriate the insurance funds toward purchase
of a new police vehicle.
   Alderman Poole stated her opinion that the budget did not have many items to
cut. She commented to staff that they be judicious about overtime. She
suggested going through the capital expenditures in the budget memo and
discussing each one.
   Alderman Pukenas stated that public safety should be the number one concern.
He shared comments he received about the Dodge Chargers being inexpensive up
front but more costly in the long run. He stated his opinion that vehicles have
a shelf life and he emphasized giving the officers the best equipment possible.
He indicated he did not support making cuts to the Police Department. He
pointed out that cuts he felt could be made throughout the budget amounted to a
half cent in the tax rate. He stated he felt a tax increase was the best option
for the city.
   Alderman Powell stated his opinion had remained unchanged from the previous
meeting and that raising taxes would run people out of town whose relatives
from 175 years ago made the city what it is today. He said he could not vote
for raising taxes, he agreed to go through the proposed capital expenses
individually and agreed with Alderman Adams that the Police Department could
get by with just one car.
   Responding to a question from Alderman Powell, Police Chief Smith stated
that there is a special certification required for officers to ride a bicycle
for community policing. He noted that the department has one officer at this
time with the certification. Chief Smith added that officers are “walking the
beat” every day, downtown, weather permitting.
   Alderman Powell discussed needed water line upsizing on Owens and Brown
Streets funded in the water and sewer budgets. He suggested doing the work in-
house to save money.
   Alderman Coring talked about budget issues that are beyond the city’s
control, i.e. state budget cuts and increased health care benefits for
employees. He noted that many of the city’s buildings need maintenance and
several capital projects need to be done. He stated his opinion that the Board
not consider cutting services. He added that he did not see where significant
cuts could be made in the budget and he did not think it would be fair to keep
going back to employees and asking them to cut when it could become a danger
for them to perform their jobs. He reviewed the 10 capital projects, noting
four (4) of which he considered a “need” and six (6) “wants.” He discussed the
Police Department need for two (2) vehicles and he suggested outfitting the
current administration car for police service with the insurance proceeds and
then purchasing one new vehicle for police. He stated his opinion that he is
leaning towards a tax increase and adoption of a capital improvement long range
plan.
   Alderman Mosteller addressed Alderman Powell’s comments about putting
additional stress on the city’s long-time residents. She pointed out that the
State has a Homestead Exemption Act to provide relief for residents 65 & older
or 100% disabled. She noted that 41 households in Southport had taken advantage
of the Act which applies to county and hospital tax as well. She stated her
belief that there were things the community could do to help citizens. She
talked about analyzing prior years’ property valuations and the ultimate
impacts on the city’s budgets. She noted that the budget is based on
anticipated revenue based on previous year-end data and there are factors that
affect the revenue that the city has no control over. She referenced Senate
Bill 126 that could change the way local option sales taxes are calculated and
it could result in over $100,000 loss of revenue projected in the proposed
budget.
   Alderman Mosteller acknowledged that the Board can only make decisions on
what they know today and the Board knows it has to grow the general fund as
notified by the North Carolina Local Government Commission, knows it has future
projects; i.e. 201 E. Moore Street renovation and waterfront improvements,
along with funds to cover emergencies. She stated her support for the 5 cent
tax increase. Responding to a query by Mayor Dove, Alderman Mosteller stated a
5 cent increase equals $4.17 a month on $100,000 valuation.
   Alderman Poole asked what the average home valuation in Southport was. Staff
responded that $214,600 is the median home value in Southport.
   Mayor Dove agreed with all board members’ observations. He stated that the
city is in for challenges. He said the city needs to continue to provide and
improve its services. He acknowledged that a tax increase may be the best
option to improve the general fund balance up to 30% over the next three years,
proceed with capital projects and provide a high level of services to the
citizens.
Review of Proposed Capital Projects
   Caviness Park Improvements            $ 12,000
   Franklin Square Gallery Building Improvements   $ 42,000
   Brunswick Family Assistance            $ 2,000
   Greenway to Walmart               $ 30,000
   2 Police Ford Explorers $38,000 each      $ 76,000
   Key fob entry for Police Department         $ 3,800
   Parking Atlantic Street Park            $ 7,000
   Walkway at Garrison               $ 2,500
   Community Building HVAC            $ 15,000
   UDO Update by COG               $ 10,000
   TOTAL                  $ 200,300
   Alderman Coring listed his “needs” priorities: Franklin Square Art Gallery
repairs, Community Building HVAC replacement, Unified Development Ordinance
(UDO) update and new Police Department vehicles. He stated his opinion that the
other six requests were “wants.”
   While agreeing with Alderman Coring’s priorities, Alderman Mosteller stated
her belief that the other items are needs as well. She referenced the greenway
to Walmart as a public safety issue and provided a picture of an individual in
a wheelchair along the Howe Street roadway. She stated her opinion that parks
are important and the garrison walkway is a trip hazard.
   Alderman Adams stated support for Alderman Coring’s priorities. He
questioned the estimated cost for a greenway and asserted that the time was not
right financially for the project. He reiterated that he would not vote to
raise taxes.
   Alderman Powell agreed that repairs to Franklin Square Art Gallery were an
obligation per the lease agreement. He captioned the greenway as a “want.” He
questioned the possibility of staff, Planning Board and volunteers updating the
UDO.
   Alderman Adams pointed out that the UDO has and will continue to undergo
changes and revisions.
   Alderman Poole agreed with Alderman Coring’s priority listing, specifically
the repairs to Franklin Square Art Gallery, Community Building HVAC and
replacement of police vehicles. She stated that just because money is
appropriated in the budget, it doesn’t mean that it has to be spent. She noted
that updating the UDO will be a big challenge, it could wait for another budget
year, and possibly volunteers in the community could be found to assist with
the update.
   Alderman Pukenas agreed with prioritizing expenditures. He expressed his
hope that the Board would not be at the same point as last year with the same
projects needing to be done. He noted that access to the Police Department was
inadequate and he supported the requested key fob project. He stated his
opinion that Parks and greenways make us what we are and fulfill the needs and
assure safety for citizens. He said he would hate to see any items removed from
the list.
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to increase the tax
rate to $.2956 cents per $100 valuation and direct staff to update the budget
and bring a balanced budget back to the Board.
   Aye:   Aldermen Coring, Mosteller, Pukenas
   Nay:   Aldermen Adams, Powell, Poole
   Aye:   Mayor Dove
   Motion carried 4-3
   Responding to a query by Alderman Coring, Finance Director Trexler explained
that department budget line items are adjusted within the department’s budgets.
   Alderman Poole asked for a separate department listing of overtime used
during a month.
   Public Works Director Fox thanked the Police, Fire & Rescue Departments for
their response to a recent staff injury.
   Board consensus to consider the budget at a special meeting, Wednesday, June
21, 6:00 p.m. in City Hall, 2 nd floor conference room.
Adjourn
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to adjourn the
meeting. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Tanya Crews-Beecher, Deputy Clerk
JUNE 21, 2017
SPECIAL SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN   SPECIAL SESSION MINUTES
CITY HALL           JUNE 21, 2017
1029 N. HOWE STREET SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Karen Mosteller, Rick Pukenas,
            Todd Coring, Jim Powell, Nelson Adams
STAFF PRESENT:      John Bauer, Interim City Manager
            Michele Windham, City Clerk
            Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
            Randy Jones, Tourism Director
            Charles Drew, Fire Chief
            Gary Smith, Police Chief
            David Fox, Public Works Director
A)   Call to Order
Mayor Dove called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
AGENDA
Budget
   Mayor Dove opened the floor for comments on the proposed FY 2017-2018
Budget.
   Alderman Pukenas stated his support for the proposed budget.
   While pointing out there were many good, necessary things in the budget,
Alderman Adams stated he would not be able to vote for the budget due to his
opposition to the tax increase.
   Alderman Poole stated appreciation for the efforts of staff to present a
balanced budget and the detail provided as requested by the Board. She stated
her opposition to the tax increase.
   Alderman Mosteller commended staff for an excellent job preparing the budget
and stated her support for the budget.
   Alderman Coring made no comments.
   Alderman Powell agreed that staff did an excellent job preparing a balanced
budget. He stated he could not support the budget because of the tax rate
increase.
   Interim City Manager Bauer stated his observations about the budget. He
pointed out that staff had put a lot of time into preparing it, they should be
commended, the budget balanced and was a solid document.
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to approve the budget
as presented.
   Aye:   Aldermen Coring, Pukenas, Mosteller
   Nay:   Aldermen Poole, Powell, Adams
   Aye:   Mayor Dove
   Motion Carried 4-3
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1823_1559x1438.jpg]  
BUDGET ORDINANCE - FISCAL YEAR 2017-2018
CITY OF SOUTHPORT
BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that, following a duly advertised public hearing, the following
annual budget ordinance is adopted to estimate revenues and make appropriations
for the financial operations of the City of Southport for the fiscal year
beginning July 1, 2017, and ending June 30, 2018.
SECTION I. GENERAL FUND
Anticipated Revenues. The following revenues are estimated to be available in
the General Fund for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2017, and ending June
30, 2018:
Ad Valorem Taxes - PY                $2,349,841
Local Option Sales Tax                876,538
Room Occupancy Tax                    88,000
Utility Franchise Tax                369,000
Miscellaneous Tax and Permits              22,600
Permit and Inspection Fees              185,100
Fire inspections & permit fees               964,167
Rescue - Transport Fees                     216,000
Police - Misc Grants                        5,000
Refuse Collection Fees & Tax                 241,600
Parks & Recreation .Grants                    23,000
Tourism - Special Event Sales                     10,000
Interest Earnings                           2,000
Community Building Rentals                          100,000
Sale of Fixed Assets                      12,000
ABC Revenue - Law Enforcement                  243,000
      Powell Bill Distribution                      110,000
Proceeds from Financing                         450,000 
Total Revenues                $6,267,846
 
B. Expenditures. The following amounts are hereby appropriated in the General
Fund for the expenses of the city government and its activities for the fiscal
year beginning July 1, 2017, and ending June 30, 2018:
Governing Body                        $   284,205   
Administration                           295,498
Finance                              234,500
Solid Waste                                         240,000
Buildings and Grounds                      610,162
Garage                            196,959
Police                            1,214,896
Fire                            1,630,167
Planning & Inspections                        280,750
Streets                               356,659
Parks and Recreation                         438,700
Community Building                         161,100
Tourism                              214,250
Powell Bill                                         110,000
Total Expenditures                        $ 6,267,846
SECTION II. ELECTRIC FUND
Anticipated Revenues. The following revenues are estimated to be available in
the Electric Fund for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2017, and ending June
30, 2018:
Electricity Sales                                   7,350,000
Utility Sales Taxes                                     514,500
Service Charges                         45,600
Other Revenues                                  1,000
Total Revenues                        $ 7,911,100
Expenditures. The following amounts are hereby appropriated in the Electric
Fund for expenses for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2017, and ending June
30, 2018:
Total Expenditures                         $ 7,911,100
SECTION III. WATER AND SEWER FUND
Anticipated Revenues. The following revenues are estimated to be available in
the Water and Sewer Fund for the fiscal year beginning:
Water                         $ 1,573,000      
Sewer Sales                               1,704,000   
Water & Sewer Tap Fees                      35,000
Sewer Impact Fees                      90,000
Water Impact Fees                      35,000
Interest Income                                  1,000
Miscellaneous Revenues                               9,000
Total Revenues                        $ 3,447,000
Expenditures. The following amounts are hereby appropriated in the Water and
Sewer Fund for expenses for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2017, and ending
June 30, 2018:
Total Expenditures                     $ 3,447,000
SECTION IV. TAX RATE
There is hereby levied, for fiscal year 2017-2018, a tax at the rate of $0.2956
on each one hundred dollars ($100) of assessed valuation of property located
within the City of Southport for the purpose of raising revenue in the General
Fund. The assessed value of property is 741,875,518.
SECTION V. BUDGET OFFICER AUTHORITY
The city manager (budget officer) is hereby authorized to transfer
appropriations within a fund and between funds under the following terms:
He may transfer amounts between appropriations within the same fund, provided
that a report of such transfers shall be made no later than the next regular
financial report to the Board of Aldermen.
He may authorize temporary transfers of cash among funds as necessary to meet
cash flow needs.
All other transfers of funds between appropriations or budget funds shall be
accomplished by Board amendment of this ordinance.
SECTION VIII. CONTINUING AUTHORIZATION
Prior year Capital Reserve Fund is no longer a restriction of Fund Balance.
Previously-adopted capital project budgets, grant project budgets, and special
reserve funds are hereby un-authorized as all such projects have been completed
and all monies shall be returned to the associated funds upon adoption of the
Budget ordinance.
SECTION IX. BUDGET IMPLEMENTATION
This ordinance and the supporting budget document shall be the basis of the
financial plan for the City of Southport municipal government for the 2017-2018
fiscal year. The budget officer shall administer the budget and shall insure
the finance officer and department heads of the city are provided with
sufficient guidance to properly implement this plan. Copies of the budget
ordinance shall be furnished to the city manager and the finance officer for
their use and direction in the disbursement of funds and to the city clerk for
the official records of the city.
SECTION X. ADOPTION
This ordinance has been adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in special
session on June 21, 2017, upon the motion of Alderman Coring and the second of
Alderman Pukenas, with a vote of 4 ayes and 3 noes, and shall be effective July
1, 2017.
                     /s/ Jerry V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk               
Personnel Matter
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to go into Closed
Session pursuant to N.C.G.S. 143-318.11(a)(6) for consideration of a personnel
matter. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   6:35 p.m. – Alderman Coring leaves
   7:02 p.m. – Alderman Adams leaves
   Return to Open Session – 7:04 p.m.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to come out of Closed
Session. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Mayor Dove announced that the Board reviewed applications for the City
Manager position while in Closed Session. He stated that no action was
taken.   
Adjourn
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to adjourn the
meeting. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
JULY 13, 2017
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING JULY 13, 2017
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Karen Mosteller, Jim Powell,
            Todd Coring, Rick Pukenas, Nelson Adams
STAFF PRESENT:      John Bauer, Interim City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director   
   Gary Smith, Police Chief
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   David Fox, Public Works Director
   Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
   Randy Jones, Tourism Director
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   Thomas Lloyd, Planner
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Dove called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Poole welcomed everyone and Mayor Dove gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Poole led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Public Comment
   Ms. Suzanne Cox, 1114 Caney Court, spoke in opposition to the proposed
greenway to Tidewater Plaza. She stated problems with golf carts have been
experienced by residents with the connecting path in Cades Cove to the
Brunswick Senior Center. She contended that nobody wants the greenway and the
Board needs to reconsider the issue.
   Ms. Jane McMinn, 2108 Maple Leaf Drive, spoke in opposition to the proposed
greenway. She stated the greenway would negatively affect 150 people in two
communities. Citing incidences of vagrancy and vandalism in the area, she
raised questions as to how safe and secure the greenway would be. She pointed
out that with the inclusion of sidewalks in the NC 211 widening project the
greenway would not be needed. Ms. McMinn asked the Aldermen to consider how
they would feel if a greenway was proposed through their neighborhood.
   Ms. Diana Burdian, 3108 Spring Oak, a new resident to the area, stated that
had she known about the proposed path earlier she would not have built in
Southport Way. She said she named her home “Safe Haven” but felt it would not
stay safe if the path was built.
   Ms. David Grothe, 2128 Maple Leaf Drive, formerly of southern California,
shared his experiences with greenways citing increased litter, petty theft and
drug activity. He encouraged the Board to spend the money for the greenway on a
better project.
   Mr. Paul Fisher, 110 River Drive, asked the Board to petition Piedmont Gas
to extend natural gas into more Southport neighborhoods. Citing the $800,000 in
the electric fund, Mr. Fisher emphasized to the Board the importance of
continuing the placement of electric service underground. He asked the Board to
provide a plan of the electric project to the citizens.
   Ms. Mary Gorman, 45 Forest Oaks Drive, spoke in opposition to the greenway.
   Mr. Claus Fey, 615 Marsh Grass, shared his concerns about a Bald Head Island
operation occurring in Indigo Plantation. He stated that trucks are dumping
sand and yard debris on the former parking lots in the neighborhood. He
contended that the Planned Unit Development (PUD) zoning did not permit the
use.
   Ms. Tish Hatem, 610 W. Brown Street, speaking on behalf of the owners of
Oliver’s Restaurant, asked the Board to take action on the recently passed
House Bill 155, “Brunch Bill” to allow alcohol sales at 10:00 a.m. on Sunday.
She stated that tax revenue would increase and she read portions of an
editorial in the State Port Pilot.
E)   Approval of Agenda    
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to approve the agenda.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Dove stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
F)   Announcements
   Mayor Dove thanked all city employees and festival organizers for a
successful 4th of July celebration with record crowds, no trouble and excellent
clean up.
   Mayor Dove announced that he would hold Mayor’s Day, Thursday, July 20, 4:00
– 5:30 p.m. at the Fire Department Substation, 111 E. Nash Street.
   Alderman Mosteller praised the many events held during the 4th of July
Festival.
   Alderman Mosteller announced that the Beautification Committee would be
holding a “This is our Town” cleanup on Saturday, August 5, 9:00 – noon.   
   Alderman Poole thanked the Southport citizens and businesses for donating
money to the 4th of July Committee to allow the festival to continue. She asked
for prayers for the family of Mr. Oliver Landis, a member of the Planning
Board, who recently passed.
   Alderman Pukenas praised the 4th of July Festival and announced that the
Maritime Museum free Tuesday program July18th at 7:00 p.m. in the Community
Building would focus on Robert Ruark.
   Mayor Dove announced that every evening at 8:00 p.m. at Waterfront Park, the
lowering of the flag is honored.
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Adams requested moving Consent Agenda Item # 4 to the regular
agenda.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to approve the consent
agenda as amended by request of Alderman Adams.   Unanimous vote; motion
carried.   
   Minutes for May 30 Special Session, June 8 Regular Meeting, June 9 Recessed
Session, June 12    Special Session, June 12 Public Forum, June 13 Special
Session, June 17   Recessed Session &    June 21 Special Session – approved
2.   Adoption of Resolution; GenX – approved
3.   Road Closure Request; Southport Wooden Boat Show 9/30/17 and Cape Fear
Cruisers 4th    Annual Classic Car n’ Rock ‘n Roll 10/28/17 – approved (map on
file in the Clerk’s office)
4 .   Non-Profit Organizations Use of the Community Building; Item moved to
regular agenda
5 .   Resolution; Accepting State Grant from the Water Infrastructure Fund for
a wastewater Asset    Inventory and Assessment – approved
6 .   Johnson Environmental & Disaster Consulting Services; Contract Renewal –
approved
   (Contract on file in the Clerk’s office)
7 .   Southport Firefighter’s Supplemental Retirement Plan (information only)
and Roster – approved
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1826_2945x2261.jpg]
RESOLUTION REQUESTING THE CHEMOURS COMPANY TO HALT PROCESSES WHICH RESULT IN
THE DISCHARGE OF THE GenX CHEMICAL INTO THE CAPE FEAR RIVER
WHEREAS, the majority of Brunswick County’s drinking water supply comes from
the Cape Fear River; and
WHEREAS, Chemours is a company that operates a facility on approximately 2200
acres of land in Bladen County along the Cape Fear River and which withdraws up
to 26 million gallons per day from the Cape Fear River and discharges treated
wastewater back into the river; and
WHEREAS, Chemours manufactures GenX, a chemical used to make Teflon and other
products; and
WHEREAS, Chemours operates under a permit or agreement with the EPA that
requires the company to reclaim 99% of the GenX chemical it manufactures prior
to discharge; and
WHEREAS, Chemours contends that it complies with the 99% recapture rule for its
facility for production of GenX, but believes that GenX may be entering the
river as a byproduct of a vinyl ether process used at its Fayetteville Works
Plant; and
WHEREAS, GenX has been shown in some studies to cause cancer and other health
issues in lab animals, and is an emerging chemical for which the EPA has yet to
establish a safe regulatory level; and
WHEREAS, The City of Southport recognizes that the availability of safe
drinking water is of paramount importance to the health and well-being of its
citizens;
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the City of Southport Board of Aldermen
does hereby request the Chemours maintains a zero discharge policy permanently,
or at a minimum until such time as the North Carolina Department of
Environmental Quality and the Environmental Protection Agency concludes any
investigation into the effects of discharge of this chemical in the water
supply and create specific regulations or guidelines pertaining to acceptable
levels, if any, for the presence of this chemical in the water supply.
   This the 13th day of July, 2017                        
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
RESOLUTION OF ACCEPTANCE FOR WASTEWATER ASSET INVENTORY & ASSESSMENT PLAN GRANT
WHEREAS,   the North Carolina Clean Water Revolving Loan and Grant Act of 1987
has authorized the making of loans and grants to aid eligible units of
government in financing the cost of construction of wastewater treatment works,
wastewater collection systems, and water supply systems, water conservation
projects; and
WHEREAS,   The North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural Resources
has offered a Grant in the amount of $45,000 to the City of Southport in order
to complete an Asset Inventory and Assessment Plan for its Wastewater
Collection System; and
WHEREAS,   the City of Southport intends to complete said project in accordance
with the approved plans and specifications;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN OF THE CITY OF
SOUTHPORT:
   That the City of Southport does hereby accept the Grant offer of $45,000.
That the City of Southport does hereby give assurance to the North Carolina
Department of Environmental Quality that all items specified in the grant
offer, Section II Assurances will be adhered to.
That Interim City Manager John Bauer, and successors so titled, is hereby
authorized and directed to furnish such information as the appropriate State
agency may request in connection with such application or the project; to make
the assurances as contained above; and to execute such other documents as may
be required in connection with the application.
That the City of Southport has substantially compiled or will substantially
comply with all Federal, State, and local laws, rules, regulations, and
ordinances applicable to the project and to Federal and State grants and loans
pertaining thereto.
This, the 11th day of July, 2017            City of Southport
                     BY: /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor   
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
Southport Firefighter’s Supplemental Retirement Plan
Under Chief Greg Cumbee’s administration, a supplemental Retirement Plan was
put in place to help retain firefighters from leaving the department after 20
years of service. This retirement plan was through the Fire Department’s city
budget, and was in addition to the NC Fire Fighter’s Pension Plan. The plan was
set up that when a Firefighter put in 20 years with the Southport Fire
Department, and turned 55 years of age, they would receive $100.00 a month. If
they stayed active in the department, beyond the 20 years, the supplement would
increase $5.00 per month for each year. For instance, if a fire fighter had 20
years, he would receive $100.00 per month, if a firefighter had 25 years, he
would receive $125.00, a firefighter that had 35 years would receive $175.00
per month. The calculation was $60.00 X (Years of Service) divided by 12.
The plan was only eligible for fire fighters that put in 20 years at Southport
Fire Department, not any other department, and was not payable until the
firefighter reached 55 years of age. Currently, the following retirees listed
below are being paid the supplemental retirement:
Firefighter Monthly Supplement Yearly Supplement
Firefighter         Monthly Supplement Yearly Supplement
CREWS, JAMES        100.00             1200.00
JOHNSON, JOHN HENRY 100.00             1200.00
MARTIN, ROY         100.00             1200.00
TRUNNELL, AL        100.00             1200.00
GILBERT, THOMAS     100.00             1200.00
LEDGETT, DOUGLAS    160.00             1920.00
CUMBEE, GREG        240.00             2880.00
BROWN, LARRY        200.00             2400.00
DAVIS, EDDIE        110.00             1320.00
SLEDGE, JOHN        160.00             1920.00
WINDERS, JOHN       100.00             1200.00
MCROY, WOODY        100.00             1200.00
WEARREN, ERNEST     100.00             1200.00
PIERCE, JOSEPH      175.00             2100.00
VEREEN, TERRY       170.00             2040.00
 
Currently, the plan is costing $24,180.00 per year. The highlighted
Firefighter, Lt. Eddie Davis, is the only active Firefighter at this time, in
which the supplement will increase. All the other retirees that are being paid
supplements are set amounts until death, and are not eligible for any
increases. There are two (2) additional retired firefighters that are eligible
to draw a supplement, when they turn 55 years of age, retired Lt. Eric Hufham
(DOB 4-17-1966) and retired Firefighter Bill Gray (DOB 08-02-1970). They will
each draw 100.00 per month, and it is set, for they are fully retired.
Our Current Roster with Join Dates & Date of Births:
Firefighter Date of Birth Join Date
Firefighter         Date of Birth Join Date
Biggs, Clarence     09-14-1963    10-04-2016
Blake, Terry        05-08-1963    07-07-2015
Bridge, Justin      04-18-1990    05-20-2016
Bullard, Gary       09-16-1959    07-07-2015
Bullard, Jonathan   09-26-1985    08-07-2007
Cobble Sr, Nelson   06-30-1973    05-01-2012
Coring, Todd        12-28-1973    12-01-1991
Cox, Rodney         02-18-1975    04-01-2014
Davis, Eddie        06-02-1953    10-01-1992
Davis, Tyler        05-31-1994    02-07-2017
Drew, Charles A     11-30-1973    12-01-1991
Drew, Charles M     07-18-1995    10-15-2013
Drew, Charles T     09-09-1955    11-01-2011* (plus 8 years)
Gaddy, John         01-21-1986    07-12-2016
Goeden, Justin      05-31-1986    02-07-2017
Gray, Brannon       12-22-1983    01-05-2016
Hagensen, Joe       04-04-1961    05-01-2012
Hagge, Brian        07-27-1974    04-01-2015
Hankins, Gary       03-21-1960    10-04-2016
Jackson, Tasha      12-02-1985    07-12-2016
Jefferson, Michael  09-30-1997    04-01-2014
Johnson, Tyler      12-03-1984    07-07-2015
Little, Adam        04-28-1986    01-05-2016
Lueckenbach, John   01-02-1993    02-07-2017
Miller, David       06-02-1969    10-01-2001
Pierce, Brett       09-29-1981    01-04-2005
Reiter, Kevin       07-12-1989    10-04-2016
Rubio, Melicio      01-11-1994    02-07-2017
Sasser, Austin      03-03-1997    07-07-2015
Sasser, Tyler       06-10-1998    07-12-2016
Sasser, Virgil      08-07-1973    06-20-2000
Schwarz, Kendrick   01-31-1993    07-08-2014
Southerland, Mark   05-19-1963    04-01-1984
Sutton, Bryce       04-24-1998    07-12-2016
Sutton, Gage        04-24-1998    07-12-2016
Thomas, Christopher 03-14-1973    07-10-1996
Treadway, Ralph     09-01-1974    10-01-1995
Wells, Brent        11-20-1981    01-05-2016
Whitley, Warren     06-29-1958    10-05-2014
 
The * above on Capt. Charles T. Drew denotes that he served on SFD from 1986 –
1994 (8 years), he left for a period of time, and then rejoined in 2011. His
previous years of service will count toward the 20 year requirement.
AGENDA
8.   Berry, Padgett & Chandler, PLLC Audit Contract
   Referencing the contract provided in the agenda packet, Finance Director
Trexler reported the cost of the audit had increased by 5% over previous years.
She stated the audit would begin in mid to late August. 
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to approve the audit
contract with Berry, Padgett & Chandler, PLLC. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
(Contract on file in the Clerk’s office)
9.   Budget Amendment #1: Hurricane Matthew Repairs
   Finance Director Trexler stated that the Budget Amendment was a carryover
from the prior year budget for an appropriation of FEMA money in order to start
the repair work at Waterfront Park.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to adopt Budget
Amendment #1. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Alderman Mosteller motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to award a contract
to Logan Marina, Inc. in the amount of $108,450 for repairs to the waterfront
bulkhead and south Atlantic Avenue bulkhead. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
(Contract on file in the Clerk’s office)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1829_855x840.jpg]
 
Budget Amendment
Fiscal Year 2017-2018
Budget Amendment #1
WHEREAS the City of Southport sustained damage from Hurricane Matthew to the
Waterfront bulkhead and the South Atlantic St bulkhead, and FEMA has agreed to
reimbursement for the cost to repair at $108,450; and the city will need fund
balance to be appropriated to start on these repairs. And
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2017-2018 needs to be amended to
reflect the use of these funds;
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2017-2018 shall be
amended as follows:
General Fund                              Increase   
   Appropriated Fund Balance
   10-00-3991-0000            $108,450
   General Fund Expenditures
   Parks & Rec Department Capital Improvements
   10-80-6120-2600            $ 108,450
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, July 13, 2017
                     /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
/s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
10.   Budget Amendment #3: FY 2017-2018 Carryover
   Finance Director Trexler explained that Budget Amendment #3 is a carryover
for purchase order projects which have not been completed by the end of FY
2016-2017.
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Coring to adopt Budget Amendment
#3. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1832_855x840.jpg]
 
Budget Amendment
Fiscal Year 2017-2018
Budget Amendment #3
   WHEREAS the City of Southport has purchase orders for projects that have not
been completed by end of the fiscal year and they will need to roll over to the
next fiscal year; and
   WHEREAS there are sufficient funds in the General Fund, Electric Fund and
Water Fund Balance; and
   WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2017-2018 needs to be amended
to reflect the additional appropriation of funds and expenditures to complete
these projects;
   BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2017-2018 shall be
amended as follows:
                                                         Increases   
Revenues:
Appropriated Fund Balance
10-00-3991-0000 General Fund               $ 29,325.72
30-00-3991-0000 Electric Fund               $493,193.22
31-91-3991-0000 Water & Sewer Fund            $ 26,380.89   
  Total Fund Appropriations               $548,899.83
Expenditures
General Fund Expenditures
Capital Outlay – Garrison Building
10-82-6170-5500
PO # 028278 Capital Restoration               $6,627.55
PO # 028822 Capital Restoration               $7,625.00
10-82-6170-4400
PO #028713 Allwash                  $1,600.00
PO #028767 Allwash                  $500.00
10-82-6170-3502
PO # 028767 Allwash                     $200.00
10-82-6170-2600
PO # 028708 Lowe’s                    $933.17
PO #028765 Watertite Plumbing               $1,515,00
PO #028764 Aulden Whitcher              $2,500.00
Total Garrison                      $21,575.72
10-05-4511-5500
Street Department Greenway Project
PO #028698   Engineering                     $1750.00
 
10-01-4140-5100
Finance Department Misc. Accounts Receivable             $6000.00
PO #028806
Total General Fund Expenditures               $29,325.72
Electric Fund Expenditures
30-93-7210-5900
Electric Department Fiber Optic Project            $99,713.00
PO’s # 028687 & 028688 ATMC
PO # Eileen Hennessey
30-93-7210-5800
PO # 028456 BEMC Ferry Road Underground          $318,788.10
PO # 028719 BEMC Yacht Basin                      2,154.11
30-93-7210-5900
PO # 028745 BEMC River Rd Power Supply         $ 40,335.47
PO # 028800 BEMC 704 E Moore St             $ 13,526.49
30-93-7210-5100
PO # 028759 BEMC Street light repeaters            $ 1,800.00
PO # 028758 Nextgrid Street light repeaters for Load Management   $ 1,496.02
PO # 028472 Consulting with Debra Fish & AT&T         $ 5,000.00
30-93-7210-5500 201 E Moore St (50%)            $ 10,380.03
Total Electric Fund Expenditures               $493,193.22
201 E Moore St Split 50/50 Water & Electric Fund
PO # 028631 201 E Moore St Paragon Building Corp      $11514.50
PO # 028763 Paragon Building Corp Change Order         $ 9245.56
                           $20,760.06 (50% 10,380.03)
Water & Sewer Fund Expenditures
31-91-7130-5500   201 E Moore ST (50%)         $10380.03
31-91-7130-2606
PO # 028733 Tools for New Truck                $1,218.86
PO #028727 Pressure Transmitter                $2,695.00
PO# 028737 Parts Water Tank& vaults             $9,987.00
PO#028741 Labor to Install Parts                $2,100.00
Total Water & Sewer Fund Expenditures            $26,380.89
Total all PO roll overs                 $548,899.83
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, July 13,
2017      
                     /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor   
            
/s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk   
11.   Construction Observation Report; 201 E. Moore Street Roof & Budget
   Amendment #2: 201 E. Moore Street Roof Repair
   Interim City Manager Bauer updated the Board, summarized the alternatives
and presented a recommendation on the needed Change Orders for the Old City
Hall roofing project.
Board-approved original contract with a 25% overage cap =          $ 144,677
25% of original contract =                                  $ 36,169.25
Total NTE Approved by Board to date                  $ 180,846.25
 
Original Contract Amount =                         $ 144,677
Change Order #1 (already approved) =                   $ 9,245.56
Change Order #2 (additional quantities-TBD) =              $ 19,547   $ 18,994
Change Order #3 (additional scope of work-TBD) =                   $
38,990.75   $ 18,127.45
Total without any alternative deducts =                 $ 212,460.31   $
191,044.01
Potential Deduct #1 (Aluminum not Copper Gutters) =            ($11,500) - not
recommended
Potential Deduct #2 (Cupola removal-net savings) =               ($14,500) -
not recommended
Potential Deduct #3 (Gutter credit) =                  ($10,000) - Recommended
Additional Funding Requirements:
Total without any alternative deducts (CO #1&2)          $ 58,537.75   $
37,121.45
Total with Change Order #2 only no deducts =           $ 19,547      $ 18,994
Total with acceptance of Deduct # 1 & (CO #1&2)             $ 47,037.75 - not
recommended
Total with acceptance of Deducts # 1 & 2 (CO#1&2)             $ 32,537.75 - not
recommended
Total with Acceptance of Deduct #3                $ 27,121.45 - recommended
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to adopt the
recommendation and Budget Amendment #2. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1835_855x840.jpg]
Budget Amendment
Fiscal Year 2017-2018
Budget Amendment #2
   WHEREAS the City of Southport needs to complete the roof repair to 201Moore
St. The cost to repair exceeds the budgeted amount in the amount of $28,000,
   WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2017-2018 needs to be amended
to reflect the use of these funds;
   BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2017-2018 shall be
amended as follows:
   Water & sewer Fund                        Increase   
   Appropriated Fund Balance
   30-00-3991-0000 (Electric Fund)         $14,000
   31-00-3991-0000(Water & Sewer Fund)      $14,000
                        $28,000
 
   Capital Outlay Expenditures
   30-93-7210-5500 (Electric Fund)          $14,000
   31-91-7130-5500 (Water Fund)          $14,000
                         $28,000
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, July 13, 2017
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
/s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk   
12.   Concurrence with Brunswick County Board of Commissioners to Enter Into
Contract with HDR for Engineering Services Relating to the Expansion of the
West Brunswick Regional Wastewater Treatment Facility
   Interim City Manager Bauer presented his recommendation that the Board does
not approve entering into a contract with HDR, but instead the Board asks
Brunswick County to request qualifications from firms for engineering services
relating to the sewer expansion project.
   City Attorney Isenberg stated that whenever an engineering service is over
$50,000, a Request for Qualifications (RFQ), to evaluate knowledge and
expertise is required.
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to support the
Manager’s recommendation. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
13.   Yard Waste Amendments
   Interim City Manager Bauer presented amendments to the contract with Waste
Industries for solid waste collection. He advised the Board that some residents
had been mixing garbage with their yard waste and others had been putting yard
waste in their trash or recycling containers which are a violation of city
code. Referencing the information provided in the agenda packet, he stated that
the yard waste issues would be resolved with placement of a sticker on all yard
waste containers.
   Alderman Powell contended that the containers were the property of Waste
Industries, not the City, and that the contract specified Waste Industries
would be responsible for maintaining them. He added that issues with Waste
Industries arose last year when some containers fell into disrepair and Waste
Industries would not repair them. He stated his opinion that Waste Industries
needed to be held to the original agreement.
   City Attorney Isenberg pointed out that the contract amendments provided
more benefits.
   Will pick up:   2 - 95 gallon carts + 2 bundles or
         1 - 95 gallon cart + 5 biodegradable bags + 2 bundles or
         10 biodegradable bags + 2 bundles
   Alderman Pukenas motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to adopt the
amendments to the Solid Waste Collection & Disposal Agreement with Waste
Industries. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
AMENDMENT TO SOLID WASTE COLLETCION, TRANSPORTATION AND DISPOSAL AGREEMENT
   THIS AMENDMENT TO SOLID WASTE COLLECTION AGREEMENT (this “Amendment”) is
made and entered into this 13th day of July 2017, by and between WASTE
INDUSTRIES, LLC, a North Carolina limited liability company (herein referred to
as “Company”) and the TOWN OF SOUTHPORT, a municipal corporation duly
incorporated under the laws of the State of North Carolina (herein referred to
as “Town”).
RECITALS
   A.   Company and Town are parties to a Solid Waste Collection Agreement
dated June 13, 2013, as previously amended and extended (the “Agreement”).
   B.   The parties desire to extend the term of the Agreement and make certain
other changes as set forth herein.
AGREEMENTS
   NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the Recitals, the mutual covenants and
agreements set forth herein, and for other good and valuable consideration, the
receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties agree as
follows:
   1.   2B. Delete the work “BULK”.
   2.   Delete 3B
   3.   Replace 3C with the following:
         Yard Waste “will be” serviced only if:
   ∙    In approved resident owned 95 gallon rollout cart with Waste Industries
designated Yard Waste decal.
   ∙    In Biodegradable paper bags (no plastic bags of any type accepted).
   ∙    Bundles must be securely tied in 5’ lengths and a maximum of 50 lbs. in
weight.
   Yard will “will not” be serviced if:
   ∙    Trash or recycle carts are used.
   ∙    Trash or recycle is mixed in with yard waste in approved yard waste
cart.
   ∙    No vacant lots will be serviced.
   ∙    All yard waste 95 gallon rollout carts are considered the property of
the resident/homeowner and are to be maintained/repaired by same.
   Yard Waste “limits” per residence/per pickup (choice of 1):
   ∙    2 approved 95 gallon Yard Waste rollout carts with Waste Industries
decal, plus 2 bundles.
   ∙    1 approved 95 gallon Yard Waste rollout cart with Waste Industries
decal, plus 5 biodegradable paper bags, plus 2 bundles
   ∙    10 biodegradable paper bags plus 2 bundles.
   Except as specifically modified herein, the Agreement shall remain in full
force and effect as written. Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined
herein will have the meanings set forth in the Agreement.
14.   Non-Profit Organizations Use of Community Building
   Alderman Mosteller reported that she had been approached by a local non-
profit organization interested in allowing meetings to be held at the Community
Building free of charge for various non-profit organizations.
   Alderman Mosteller stated that she had contacted the Parks & Recreation
Department Head and the Community Building staff to determine that Monday
through Thursday, 10:00 a.m. – 2:00 p.m. would be available for use.
   Alderman Adams recommended continuation of the current city policy to offer
other city property locations; i.e., Jaycees Building & Fire Substation, free
of charge for meetings in order to minimize the wear and tear on the Community
Building.
   Alderman Powell agreed with Alderman Adams.
   Alderman Mosteller stated that she had not been aware of the policy.
   Alderman Adams motioned, second by Alderman Powell to stick with the current
city policy and offer alternate locations for non-profit organizations to hold
meetings. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
PROJECT REPORT
   Interim City Manager Bauer pointed out the Project Report in the agenda
packet and advised the Board that the report would be updated monthly.
STAFF REPORTS
   Reports included in the agenda packet.
   Tourism Director Jones reported that the re-pointing of the bricks on Ft.
Johnston had been completed and the building would be sealed next week. He
indicated he was still accepting donations for the project.
   Tourism Director Jones reported that a TV segment focusing on Southport
would be aired at 9:00 p.m., July 20 on PBS UNC TV.
BOARD COMMENTS
   Alderman Adams raised concerns about the $5 fee for paying a utility bill on
line with a credit card. He stated it was his impression the service was being
provided as a convenience. He contended that the $5 fee is a financial burden
to some city residents. He recommended re-addressing the fee.
   Finance Director Trexler pointed out that utility bills can be paid in
person at City Hall, by check or via an automatic draft.
   Alderman Poole, chair of the Rate Committee, stated that the fee was
implemented to cover the credit card charges the city pays to the issuing bank.
She stated that the Committee could look at the fees again.
   Alderman Pukenas recommended putting the bill payment options on the utility
bills and on the city’s web page.
   Alderman Poole welcomed Interim City Manager John Bauer.
   Alderman Coring suggested that the Board look at tabling construction of the
proposed greenway to Tidewater Plaza. He stated that he had heard from
citizens, had walked the woods, looked at the area at night and was having
doubts that it was a good project to pursue. He expressed concerns that it
would not be used when the North Carolina Department of Transportation (NCDOT)
put in sidewalks during the NC 211 widening project and the money budgeted for
the project could be better spent elsewhere.
   Alderman Adams agreed with Alderman Coring, as did Alderman Powell.
   Mayor Dove stated that he and Alderman Powell would speak with state
representatives about lowering the speed limit on NC211 to Walmart for use by
golf carts.
RECESS  
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to recess the meeting to
Saturday, July 15, 10:30 a.m. in the EOC of Fire Headquarters, 1011 N. Howe
Street. Unanimous vote; motion carried.   
                        /s/ J.V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
JULY 15, 2017
RECESSED SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN   RECESSED SESSION MINUTES
FIRE HEADQUARTERS   JULY 15, 2017
1011 N. HOWE STREET SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Karen Mosteller, Rick Pukenas,
            Todd Coring, Jim Powell, Nelson Adams
STAFF PRESENT:   John Bauer, Interim City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Chris May, Cape Fear Council of Government
A)   Call to Order
Mayor Dove called the meeting back to order at 10:30 a.m.   
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to go into Closed
Session Pursuant to N.C.G.S. 143-318.11(a)(6) for Consideration of a Personnel
Matter. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to come out of Closed
Session. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Mayor Dove announced that the Board reviewed applications and interviewed
applicants for the position of City Manager. No action was taken.
Recess
   Alderman Adams motioned, second by Alderman Powell to recess the meeting to
Monday, July 24th, 3:00 p.m. City Hall 2nd floor conference room. Unanimous
vote; motion carried.
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
JULY 24, 2017
RECESSED SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN   RECESSED SESSION MINUTES
CITY HALL           JULY 24, 2017
1029 N. HOWE STREET SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Karen Mosteller, Rick Pukenas,
            Jim Powell, Nelson Adams
ABSENT:         Alderman Coring
STAFF PRESENT:   John Bauer, Interim City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
A)   Call to Order
Mayor Dove called the meeting back to order at 3:00 p.m.
   City Attorney Isenberg explained to the Board the creation of the Bald Head
Island Transportation Authority for operation of a reliable and safe ferry and
barge transportation system to transport passengers and freight between the
City of Southport and the Village of Bald Head Island. He told the Board that
the Authority will have a board of 11 members, one of which will be appointed
by the Board of Aldermen.
   He advised that a public hearing would need to be held and a resolution
adopted. A hearing was scheduled for Monday, August 7, 5:30 p.m. at Fire
Headquarters, 1011 N. Howe Street.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to go into Closed
Session Pursuant to N.C.G.S. 143-318.11(a)(6) for Consideration of a Personnel
Matter. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Return to Open Session
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to come out of Closed
Session. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Mayor Dove reported that the Board discussed applications for the City
Manager position and a potential employment contract.
   The Board took no action.
Recess
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to adjourn the
meeting. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
AUGUST 3, 2017
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING AUGUST 3, 2017
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Karen Mosteller, Jim Powell, Todd
Coring, Rick Pukenas, Nelson Adams
STAFF PRESENT:      John Bauer, Interim City Manager
   Tanya Crews-Beecher, Deputy City Clerk
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
   Gary Smith, Police Chief
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   David Fox, Public Works Director
   Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
   Randy Jones, Tourism Director
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   Thomas Lloyd, Planner
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Dove called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Pukenas welcomed everyone and Mayor Dove gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Pukenas led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Public Comment
   Ms. Joni Christmas, 4455 Willow Moss Way, spoke in opposition to the
proposed pedestrian pathway to Tidewater Plaza through the Southport Way
Subdivision.
   Ms. Regina Napolitano, 3103 Spring Oak Lane, spoke in opposition to the
proposed pedestrian pathway to Tidewater Plaza through the Southport Way
Subdivision.
   Mr. James Rankin, 4457 Willow Moss Way, expressed his understanding that the
proposed Greenway was originally planned to provide safe passage for those
individuals in wheelchairs and he shared his perception that the greenway was
now planned for golf cart usage. He spoke about instances he had witnessed of
drug use and indigents camped behind the development.
   Mr. Robert Creech, 426 W. Brunswick Street, stated that he was on a campaign
to re-open the city dock in the Yacht Basin that was damaged by Hurricane
Matthew. He pointed out that he had read in the board agenda that consideration
was being made to demolish the structure. He asked the Board to consider re-
opening the dock and repairing it to its pre-Matthew condition.
   Ms. Lowe Davis, 504 W. Brunswick Street, spoke about witnessing people
climbing over the barricades at the city dock, still using it, and tying up
boats to it. She shared her opinion that only 1/3 of the dock appears unusable.
She emphasized the many sources of recreation the dock offers.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Dove stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
E)   Approval of Agenda
    Alderman Coring asked for addition of Item #14, Discussion of Greenway.
   Alderman Powell asked for addition of Item #15, The Ridge Sink Hole.
   Mayor Dove requested Consent Agenda Item #2, Resolution in Support of
International Day of Peace be moved to Announcements.
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Powell to approve the agenda as
amended. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
F)   Announcements
   Mayor Dove read and presented to the Peace Day Committee the Southport
Resolution In Support of International Day of Peace.
SOUTHPORT
RESOLUTION IN SUPPORT OF INTERNATIONAL DAY OF PEACE
WHEREAS, The United Nations in 1981 established a yearly International Day of
Peace, a day devoted to commemorating and strengthening the ideals of peace
both within and among all nations and people; and
WHEREAS, The International Day of Peace is now observed around the world each
year on September 21 to put aside all that separates us and to experience
peace; and
WHEREAS, the theme of the 2017 International Day of Peace is “Together for
Peace: Respect, Safety & Dignity for All”; and
WHEREAS, Southport residents are coordinating a celebration of the
International Day of Peace on a local level; and
WHEREAS, Peace Day Southport promotes world peace, local peace and inner peace
through education, art and celebration; and
WHEREAS, the Celebration of Peace will be held in Franklin Square Park and will
include songs, dances, art, peace information and literature, and children’s
crafts; and
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Mayor and Southport Board of Aldermen
on this the 3rd day of August 2017, hereby proclaim Saturday, September 16,
2017 as “Peace Day” in the City of Southport and urge all citizens to join in
the festivities of this day and promote peace among all peoples.
                           /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
   Mayor Dove read the Resolution Appointing Bruce Oakley as Southport City
Manager into the record.
RESOLUTION APPOINTING BRUCE OAKLEY AS SOUTHPORT CITY MANAGER
WHEREAS, the City of Southport has a Council-Manager form of government; and
WHEREAS, the City of Southport has publicly advertised this position; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen have evaluated 32 applicants; and
WHEREAS, the Board has chosen one application based on his qualifications and
local government experience.
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Mr. Bruce Oakley is appointed the City
Manager of Southport, NC effective September 1, 2017, and that the Employment
Agreement between the City and Mr. Oakley is hereby approved.
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Poole to adopt the RESOLUTION
IN SUPPORT OF INTERNATIONAL DAY OF PEACE & RESOLUTION APPOINTING BRUCE OAKLEY
AS SOUTHPORT CITY MANAGER. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Alderman Mosteller announced that the Beautification Committee would hold
the monthly “This is our Town” clean-up on Saturday, August 5 beginning at 8:00
a.m.
   Alderman Mosteller announced that the North Carolina Environmental Quality
is seeking public input regarding Offshore Seismic Testing and Drilling. She
indicated that a public hearing is scheduled for Monday, August 7, in the New
Hanover Government Center. She pointed out that Southport and many other
municipalities had passed resolutions in opposition to the practices, along
with Governor Cooper opposed to it. She encouraged everyone to reach out to the
Brunswick County Commissioners and State Legislators.
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to approve the consent
agenda as amended. Unanimous vote; motion carried.   
1.   Minutes for July 13 Regular Meeting, July 15 Recessed Session, & July 24
Recessed Session –    approved
2.   Item moved to Announcements
3.    Road Closure Request For Handicap Parking; Southport Wooden Boat Show 9/
30/17 –    approved  (map on file in the Clerk’s office)
4.   Approval for Hanging of Military Appreciation Day Banner on Water Tower
Fence - approved
5.   Actuarial Study for Firefighter’s Supplemental Retirement Plan – approved
6.   Water & Sewer Fund Capital Budget Equipment Purchase – approved
AGENDA
7.   First Reading: Brunch Bill Ordinance
   Alderman Poole pointed out the benefits to Southport businesses, citizens
and tourists by approving the Ordinance. She motioned, second by Alderman
Powell to adopt the Ordinance to Allow the Sale of Alcoholic Beverages Before
Noon on Sundays at Licensed Premises.
Aye:   Aldermen Poole, Powell, Pukenas, Mosteller, Adams
Nay: Alderman Coring
Motion carried 5-1
CITY OF SOUTHPORT
AN ORDINANCE TO ALLOW THE SALE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
BEFORE NOON ON SUNDAYS AT LICENSED PREMISES
WHEREAS, on June 29, 2017, the North Carolina General Assembly enacted Senate
Bill 155, entitled “An Act to Make Various Changes to the Alcoholic Beverage
Control Commission Laws”; and
WHEREAS, Section 4 of Ratified Senate Bill 155 authorizes city and county
governments to adopt an ordinance to allow alcohol sales beginning at 10 am on
Sundays; and
WHEREAS, Ratified Senate Bill 155 was signed into law by Governor Roy Cooper on
the 30th day of June, 2017 and became effective on that date (Session Law 2017,
Chapter 87); and
WHEREAS, by enacting Senate Bill 155, North Carolina joins 47 other States in
allowing alcohol service before noon on Sunday; and
WHEREAS, Sunday morning alcohol service will allow the hospitality community
and retail merchants in our community to meet the needs of their customers; and
WHEREAS, Sunday morning alcohol service will benefit our small business
community, bring people into business districts earlier in the day, and
generate increased tax revenues; and
WHEREAS, our community has a diverse and growing population with different
religious beliefs, each of which has various times and multiple days for
worship;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen of Southport, North
Carolina that:
Section 1. Pursuant to the authority granted by S.L. 2017-87 any establishment
located in the corporate limits of and holding an ABC permit issued pursuant to
G.S. 18B - 1001 is permitted to sell beverages allowed by its permit beginning
at 10 A.M. on Sundays.
Section 2. All laws and clauses of law in conflict herewith are repealed to the
extent of any such conflict.
Section 3. This ordinance is effective on the 4th day of August, 2017. Adopted
this 3rd day of August, 2017.
8.   First Reading: Golf Cart Ordinance Revisions
   Mayor Dove questioned the size and seating restrictions. City Planner Lloyd
responded that the Committee recommendation is to permit up to 3 seater golf
carts. He spoke about the differences between golf carts and low speed
vehicles.
   Alderman Powell suggested changing the seating restrictions to 4 seats.
   City Attorney Isenberg stated that low speed vehicles are licensed by the
State and travel more than 20 mph. He added that the city cannot regulate low
speed vehicles.
   Alderman Adams questioned the 18 years old age requirement and asked the
Committee to revisit the requirement. He pointed out that 16 year olds can
obtain State issued Driver’s Licenses and should be permitted to drive golf
carts. He expressed caution about making the Ordinance too restrictive.
   Alderman Coring stated he had received queries about the age limit, required
equipment such as mirrors and headlights and tagging the vehicles already
licensed by the State. He suggested providing an educational session for the
public.
   City Planner Lloyd stated that the Committee had reviewed other
municipalities’ ordinances.
   Attorney Isenberg stated that State Law prohibits anyone under 16 from
driving a golf cart. He pointed out that until the city had adopted an
ordinance, it was illegal to operate a golf cart on city roadways.
   Mayor Dove asked if provisions had been included in the draft ordinance for
handicapped operation. City Planner Lloyd responded that the ordinance allows
for operation by those with a handicap.
   Mayor Dove asked if it would be possible to tag carts for use only during
daylight hours. Attorney Isenberg advised the Board to consider the duties that
will be placed on the Police Department and the effectiveness of enforcement.
   Alderman Pukenas stated that an informational brochure would be created.
   Alderman Poole pointed out that once an ordinance is approved, the
information will be available to the public in City Hall, on the city’s web
page and each cart owner that gets a sticker would be required to read and sign
an affidavit that they have read the ordinance.
   Alderman Pukenas noted that the stickers would cost $25.
   Mr. Steve Simon, 6211 Pebble Shore Lane, golf cart owner since 2007, tour
operator for past four (4) years shared his concerns for Board consideration.
Referencing a newspaper article, Mr. Simon noted that the proposed ordinance
did not address gasoline carts or mopeds. He stated there was public confusion
about the regulations for state roads vs. city streets, low speed vehicles vs.
golf carts, what low speed vehicles can and cannot do and the proposed age
requirement of 18. He stated that golf carts typically go 12 – 13 mph and
operating them on 35 mph streets would put people at risk. He surmised that,
with additional rules, enforcement of the ordinance by the Police Department
would be difficult.
   Alderman Poole pointed out that the Board’s agendas, with all attachments,
are available at the library and City Hall. She recommended having the Golf
Cart Committee revisit the Ordinance taking into consideration all comments,
prepare another draft and bring back to the Board.
   Interim City Manager Bauer indicated that the draft ordinance is on the
city’s web page and copies are available at City Hall.    
9.   Consideration of Police Vehicle Replacement Fund
   Interim City Manager Bauer presented a 20-year time frame analysis for
creating a Police Vehicle Replacement Fund. He stated that he and the Police
Chief used $40,000 as a base to replace a vehicle when the 150,000 miles
threshold is reached. He recommended inclusion of $71,000 annually beginning
with the FY 2018-2019 budget.
CASH-ON-CASH PROJECTIONS
      YEARS TO REPLACE      AMOUNT TO FUND
   CAR #                      ESTIMATE                EACH YEAR
   100         23            $ 1,739
   101          6             6,667
   102         12             3,333
   103          5             8,000
   104         11             3,636
   105          9             4,444
   106          7             5,714
   107          3             13,333
   108         11             3,636
   110          9             4,444
   111          8             5,000
   112         10             4,000
   125         12             3,333
   127         11                 3,636
                  Projected:   $ 70,915
   Assumptions:   1.   $ 40,000 to replace a new vehicle
         2.   Vehicles Replaced @ 150,000 miles            
   Recommended:   $ 71,000 annually funded and budgeted, starting FY 18-19   
   Alderman Powell stated his opinion that the 150,000 mileage threshold should
not include the mileage accumulated for driving the vehicle to and from the
officer’s residence.
   Alderman Poole asked if the issues with the Ford Explorers that she had read
about, seen on the news, and had heard from citizens had been investigated.
   Code Enforcement Officer Brannon Gray reported that he had thoroughly
researched the issue and found that the City’s vehicles had a premium up
fitting wiring package and no drilling of the membrane existed. He added that
the NC Highway Patrol, NC State Motor Pool and other agencies had implemented
use of the vehicles, the SUVs had a higher crash rating than the Dodge Chargers
and a lower maintenance cost.
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to adopt the
recommendation of the Police Chief and City Manager to establish a Police
Vehicle Replacement Fund.
   Discusssion
   Alderman Powell repeated his opinion that the personal use mileage should
not be included in the mileage threshold and he stressed enhanced record
keeping.
   Unanimous vote; motion carried.    
10.   Cades Cove Improvements & Budget Amendment # 4
   Interim City Manager Bauer spoke about Cades Cove Subdivision and the
incomplete work to bring the streets up to NCDOT standards for acceptance by
the City and Powell Bill funding. He reported that the city has claimed
$175,000 in funds the most recent developer pledged and he recommended using
those funds to award a contract for the work. He stated that a major storm
water repair is needed prior to any paving of the streets. He referenced three
(3) bids received and recommended award to the low bidder, Carmichael
Construction Co., Inc. at $61,700 for the storm drain repair and $3,700 for an
engineer to do the specifications for paving. He noted that an estimate for
paving repairs is $171,720. He pointed out that there would be a shortfall of
funds, options of which would be considered at a later date.
   Alderman Powell stated his opinion that there may be additional charges for
installation of curbing. City Manager Bauer recommended issuing a “not-to-
exceed” purchase order to Carmichael in the amount of $ 65,000 to include
curbing.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to adopt Budget
Amendment #4. Unanimous vote; motion carried. 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1839_855x840.jpg]
Budget Amendment
Fiscal Year 2017-2018
Budget Amendment #4
   WHEREAS the City of Southport has received funds from the pledge account
posted by Albers Family, LLC on behalf of Cardinal Builders (most recent
Development Company of Cades Cove) for failure to construct public improvements
acceptable to NCDOT and City standards in the planned unit development of Cades
Cove; and
   WHEREAS, the City can apply these funds toward designing and constructing
improvements; and
   WHEREAS, the funds received total $175,000; and
   WHEREAS, these funds are in the General Fund; and
   WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2017-2018 needs to be amended
to reflect the additional appropriation of funds and expenditures to undertake
public improvements in Cades Cove;
   NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport, North Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year
2017-2018 shall be amended as follows:    
                                   Increases   
Revenues:
   General Fund Balance
   10-00-3839-0100 Misc. Revenue            $ 175,000
   Expenditures:
   General Fund Expenditures
   10-05-4511-5800 Street Dept. Capital Improvements       $ 175,000
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, August 3, 2017
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
/s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk   
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to award the storm
drain repair contract to Carmichael Construction Co., Inc. for not to exceed
$65,000. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to award a contract to
Stroud Engineering, PA for engineering services on the paving portion of the
project for a not to exceed amount of $3,700. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
11.   Quotes for Demolition of Docks and Award of Contract
   Interim City Manager Bauer presented three (3) competitive bids for
demolition of the City Dock with work to begin after the annual Kids Crab Derby
on Labor Day.
   Alderman Powell asked about the requirement that the city had to obligate
itself to spend the $117,000 FEMA reimbursement within one year of the date of
the storm or request an extension. Interim City Manager Bauer responded that
the Board had to obligate the funds. He recommended that the Board award a
contract to the low bidder to lock the price in place until an order to proceed
is given.
   Alderman Mosteller stated her understanding that the FEMA reimbursement was
awarded for construction of an upgrade to a floating dock.
   Alderman Coring questioned if the dock was safe enough for use during the
Crab Derby. Parks and Recreation Director Hemphill stated that a portion of the
dock could be used while the L portion of the dock and finger piers would be
restricted.
   Alderman Pukenas asked about moving the barricades to allow public use of
the first portion of the dock. Aldermen Poole & Coring agreed.
   Interim City Manager Bauer pointed out that the Board needed to obligate the
money to show that it was working towards making the repairs.
   Alderman Coring stated that he had heard concerns about allowing the
property to sit empty. Noting that there could be a change in the make-up of
the Board, Alderman Coring stressed moving forward. He said he wanted to make
sure a portion of the dock would be safe for children to use.
   After getting clarification from Interim City Manager Bauer that, by
approving the contract cost, the city was not required to demolish, Alderman
Poole motioned, second by Alderman Coring to lock-in the prices with Logan
Marine. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
12.   Appointment to Planning Board
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to move Richard
Bandera from an alternate position on the Planning Board to a full seat
position and to appoint Pete Hayslip as an alternate on the Planning Board.
   Due to absence of Bandera and Haislip applications in the agenda packet,
Alderman Poole withdrew her motion and appointments were tabled until a future
regular Board meeting.
13.   Appointment to Airport Commission
   Noting the experience of applicants Frederick Guerrina and John McCloskey,
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Poole to appoint Mr. Frederick
Guerrina to the Brunswick County Airport Commission. Unanimous vote; motion
carried.
14.   Discussion of Greenway
   Alderman Coring recalled his original support for the greenway, subsequent
public input, project by NCDOT to include sidewalks in the NC 211 widening, his
personal observations of the area and his change in position not to support the
greenway at this time. He talked about the dangerous logistics of directing
pedestrians along the two lane Robert Ruark Road to access the greenway. He
suggested using the allocated funds for other parks improvements.
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Powell to not do the greenway
project at this time and to put the funds back in the Parks & Recreation budget
for use elsewhere.
   Discussion
   Alderman Powell recalled meetings with NCDOT for the NC 211 improvements. He
added that he and the Mayor were going to ask NCDOT to reduce the speed limit
on NC 211 from Robert Ruark Drive to the Duke Energy Progress canal to allow
for street approved golf carts to drive to Walmart.
   Mayor Dove announced that he would bring up the speed limit reduction and
request additional sidewalks when he attended an RPO meeting, Friday, August
18.
   Alderman Mosteller expressed appreciation for citizens’ comments and
concerns. Referencing statistics of the Comprehensive Pedestrian Transportation
Plan, 26% of Southport residents do not have access to a personal vehicle;
Alderman Mosteller talked about the motivation for the greenway with planning
begun when the city acquired the land behind the neighborhoods through a
donation. She pointed out that the Board had promised to hold a public hearing
on the proposed path. She added that approximately ¾ of a mile of Howe Street
will remain without sidewalks after the NC211 widening project.
   Aye:   Aldermen Coring, Powell, Adams, Poole, Pukenas
   Nay:   Alderman Mosteller
   Motion Carried 5-1
15.   The Ridge Sink Hole
   Alderman Powell discussed the need to repair a sinkhole in The Ridge
subdivision. He referenced bids received and pointed out the low bid of $25,139
from Ellixson & Sons. He motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to award a
contract to Ellixon & Sone for repair of the sinkhole on Willow Moss Way.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
5 Minute Break
   Board members scheduled time that they would individually be available
during the week of August 14 to review the qualifications of engineering firms
for the professional services associated with the design and construction of
improvements to the West Brunswick Regional Waste Water System.
REPORTS FROM MANAGER
   Interim City Manager Bauer presented an update on the City/County Wastewater
Treatment Project. He highlighted the short term schedule:
   ITEM         BY WHOM         BY WHEN
1.   Engineering      County Engineering         August 9
   Proposals Received
2.   Engineering      County Engineer         August 10
   Proposals Delivered
   To City
3.   Proposals         City Manager         August 10-11
   Delivered to
   City Selection
   Committee Members
4.   Interview         City - County         August 15-16
   Firms         Selection Committee         9:00 a.m.
5.   Evaluate Firms      City - County         August 17-18
   Recommend Award      Selection Committee
6.   Approve          Board of Aldermen         September 14
   Engineering
   Award
7.   Approve         County Commissioners      September 18
   Engineering
   Award
   Interim City Manager Bauer reviewed the notes from a conference call July 14
with the North Carolina Local Government Commission (NCLGC) regarding the
funding and approval process for the Waste Water Treatment Facility Expansion.
   Referencing the past and future wastewater treatment projections, Interim
City Manager Bauer recommended a graduated sewer rate increase be considered by
the Board.
                  TREATED BY COUNTY
          Wastewater Readings (GPD)
         2014 - 2015   385,336   Metered
         2015-2016      516,720   Metered
         2016-2017      464,131   Metered (11 months)
         2017-2018   *   487,338   Projected
         2018-2019   *   511,705   Projected
         2019-2020   *   537,290   Projected
         2020-2021   *   564,154   Projected
         2021-2022   *   592,362   Projected
         2022-2023   *   621,980   Projected
         2023-2024   *   653,079   Projected
         2024-2025   *   685,733   Projected
         2025-2026   *   720,000   Projected
         2026-2027   *   756,021   Projected
         *5% Annual Growth Rate
   Interim City Manager Bauer reviewed the Project Report, included in the
agenda packet, with the Board. He provided updates since July 24:
201 E. Moore Street Building    Contractor remobilizing August 14, change
orders                   negotiated, completion date August 31
Shoreline Stabilization       Visit to Brunswick Town shoreline stabilization
project was August 2
Sale of Surplus Property      Property will be advertised in local paper and on
city website,
               Signs will be placed on the properties
               Will be an Upset Bid Procedure; Board can refuse offers
Joint Trench w/ATMC Pole
   Attachment & Fiber Optic      Project completion date August 15
   Interim City Manager Bauer stated that the Cades Cove storm drain repair/
pavement improvement & Willow Moss Way sink hole repair would be added to the
Project Report. He indicated that an updated report would be provided to the
Board on or before August 31.
   Responding to a query by Alderman Coring, Interim City Manager Bauer
responded that he would obtain and report to the Board the status on the
Franklin Square Art Gallery project.
   Interim City Manager Bauer stated that staff could pursue obtaining bids for
installation of a floating dock at the city boat docks. He indicated that the
floating dock could be pulled out when the basin was dredged. He stated that
this approach would signify to FEMA that progress was being made.
   Aldermen Coring and Poole supported pursuing specifications and bids.
   Interim City Manager Bauer discussed Items of Interest provided in the
agenda packet:
Consider creation of a five (5) year Capital Improvement Program (CIP) Fund.
Revisit with the new city manager the review, evaluation, and eventual adoption
of the Personnel Policy prepared by The Maps Group.
The Brunswick Community College is in the process of having an environmental
survey completed on the Lord Street Gym in order to submit a formal request to
the NC Community College Board to grant permission to take the facility and
property back from the City and subsequent demolition.
   Interim City Manager Bauer reported that “No Thru Trucks” signs should be
placed on Jabbertown Road within the next two weeks. He added that he had asked
the North Carolina Department of Transportation (NCDOT) to update GIS regarding
the Rob Gandy Boulevard truck route.
STAFF REPORTS
   Reports included in the agenda packet.
   The Annual Wastewater Collection System Performance Report was included in
the agenda packet. (report on file in the Clerk’s Office)
BOARD COMMENTS
   The Board thanked Mr. Bauer for his service as City Manager.
   Mayor Dove announced that the Board would meet in Public Hearing Monday,
August 7, 5:30 p.m. at the Fire Headquarters EOC regarding the Bald Head Island
Transportation Authority.
RECESS  
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to recess the meeting to
Monday, August 7, 5:30 p.m. in the EOC of Fire Headquarters, 1011 N. Howe
Street. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
                        /s/ J.V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
AUGUST 7, 2017
RECESSED SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN   RECESSED SESSION MINUTES
FIRE HEADQUARTERS   AUGUST 7, 2017
1011 N. HOWE STREET SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Karen Mosteller, Rick Pukenas, Todd
Coring, Jim Powell,
ABSENT:         Nelson Adams
STAFF PRESENT:      John Bauer, Interim City Manager
         Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
         Tanya Shannon, Deputy City Clerk
         B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
         Thomas Lloyd, Planner
         Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
         Randy Jones, Tourism Director
         Charles Drew, Fire Chief
         Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
Mayor Pro Tem Coring called the meeting back to order at 5:30 p.m.
   Pursuant to N.C.G.S. 160A-683(b) Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman
Powell to go into Public Hearing regarding the creation of the Bald Head Island
Transportation Authority. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Mr. Robert Creech, 426 W. Brunswick Street, asked for justification as to
why the establishment of and inclusion in the Bald Head Island (BHI)
Transportation Authority is a good idea for the City of Southport. He talked
about the loss of taxes, potential liability and what entity would be
responsible if the Authority defaulted. Mr. Creech recalled a large boating
accident of a passenger ferry in years past, with litigation still in process.
   There were no further public comments.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to close Public Hearing.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Board Comments
   Attorney Isenberg advised that Alderman Mosteller is not legally required to
abstain from voting for a conflict of interest. He stated that Alderman
Mosteller informed him that she did not want to have the appearance of a
conflict of interest due to her employment with Bald Head Limited.
   Alderman Mosteller commented on her understanding of the franchise fee as a
way to compensate for fire, police and emergency services similar to mutual aid
agreements.
   Alderman Powell stated his understanding that the Authority, which is
modeled after the Douglas Airport Authority in Charlotte, will be incorporated
through the Secretary of State who will have jurisdiction over the Authority.
He indicated that the franchise fees would be determined by mirroring the
current taxes collected. He stated that as property taxes increased, so would
the franchise fee which would be controlled by the eleven members of the Board
of Trustees as appointed by the Governor (1), General Assembly (2), North
Carolina Department of Transportation (3), Mayor & Mayor Pro Tempore of the
Village of Bald Head + 1, Southport (1), and Brunswick County (1). Alderman
Powell reported that the BHI Transportation Authority will operate just like
the State Ports Authority. He added that if a boating accident should occur, it
would be addressed by the State Authority.
   City Attorney Isenberg stated that per the legislation, there was no
liability to the City and the City would not be responsible for any debts.
   Alderman Poole pointed out that the financial reports for upcoming years had
been reviewed and a 2- 2-1/2% annual increase in franchise fees was estimated.
Additionally, she pointed out that 5 – 6 acres of property will be pulled out
of the Authority and will remain as taxable property for the City.
   Alderman Pukenas commented that he had reviewed the legislation and
determined that the franchise fees would be comparable to the property tax and
the State would assume responsibility for the ferry system, not the City.
   It was noted that appointments by the Governor, Legislature and County could
be individuals from Southport. Attorney Isenberg pointed out that the only
stipulation for the appointment made by the Board was that it be a citizen of
Southport.
   Alderman Mosteller asked to be recused. Alderman Poole motioned, second by
Alderman Powell to recuse Alderman Mosteller. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Powell to adopt A Concurrent
Resolution Whereby The Village Of Bald Head Island, The City Of Southport, And
The County Of Brunswick Signify Their Determination To Organize The Bald Head
Island Transportation Authority & Articles Of Incorporation Of Bald Head Island
Transportation Authority.
   Ayes:      Aldermen Coring, Powell, Poole, Pukenas
   Recused:   Alderman Mosteller
   Motion Carried 4-0
A CONCURRENT RESOLUTION WHEREBY THE VILLAGE OF BALD HEAD ISLAND, THE CITY OF
SOUTHPORT, AND THE COUNTY OF BRUNSWICK SIGNIFY THEIR DETERMINATION TO ORGANIZE
THE BALD HEAD ISLAND TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY
WHEREAS, on July 18, 2017, the Governor of the State of North Carolina signed
the Ferry Transportation Authority Act, as ratified by the North General
Assembly, 2017 Session Law 120, codified at North Carolina General Statutes,
Chapter 160A, Article 29 (the “Act”);
WHEREAS, the Village of Bald Head Island (the “Village”) is a municipal
corporation that is only accessible by watercraft vessel;
WHEREAS, the Village is dependent upon a reliable, safe, and affordable ferry
system (including passenger and barge transportation services, terminal
facilities and vehicle parking) that operates on the Cape Fear River between
Deep Point Marina in the City of Southport and Bald Head Island Marina in the
Village;
WHEREAS, the City of Southport (“Southport”) is a municipal corporation where
the mainland ferry terminal, the mainland barge terminal, and vehicle parking
for access to Bald Head Island are located;
WHEREAS, many Southport and other Brunswick County residents are employed on
and/or regularly visit Bald Head Island and depend upon the ferry services and
parking facilities, and many residents living on and visitors to Bald Head
Island regularly transact business in Southport and Brunswick County;
WHEREAS, the Village and Southport are both municipalities located in Brunswick
County, North Carolina in which all of the ferry terminal and barge facilities
and vehicle parking for access to Bald Head Island are located;
WHEREAS, the ferry system, barge system, on-island tram system, terminals, and
parking facilities are presently owned and operated by a number of privately
held corporations;
WHEREAS, the Act permits the purchase of those assets of those privately held
corporations used in the operations of the ferry system, barge system, on-
island tram system, terminals, and parking facilities, and the consolidation of
those operations in, by a single ferry transportation authority as defined in
G.S. 160A-681 and with the powers set forth in G.S. 160A-685 (“the Authority”);
WHEREAS, pursuant to G.S. 160A-683, the Village Council of the Village of Bald
Head Island, the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, and the Board of
Commissioners of the County of Brunswick are the proper entities to adopt a
resolution to create the Authority pursuant to the Act;
WHEREAS, the Village, Southport, and Brunswick County are engaging to
coordinate and plan for the Authority that will operate a reliable and safe
ferry and barge transportation system to transport passengers and freight
between Southport and the Village, to provide parking facilities for those
passengers on the mainland, and to provide tram service on the island; to
enhance the quality of life, mobility, and circumstances of residents of the
Village, Southport, and Brunswick County; and to promote economic development
and tourism throughout the Cape Fear region, while protecting and preserving
the environment;
WHEREAS, the Village, Southport, and Brunswick County have duly afforded the
general public, and other interested parties, both public and private, the
opportunity to participate in public hearings regarding the formation of the
Authority, which public hearings were noticed as required by G.S. 160A-683 and
properly conducted pursuant to all applicable laws;
WHEREAS, the creation of an Authority, pursuant to the Act, appears to be in
the best long-term interest of the Village, Southport, and Brunswick County,
and their residents and businesses;
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, NC, desires by this
Concurrent Resolution to signify its determination to organize an Authority
under the applicable provisions of the Act; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport, NC:
That the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, NC, signifies its
determination to organize an Authority under the Act.
That the articles of incorporation of such Authority are included herein by
reference, and that, pursuant to G.S. 160A-683, these articles of incorporation
set forth all of the following:
that the “Bald Head Island Transportation Authority” is the official name of
such Authority;
that such Authority is organized under the Act; and
that the names of the organizing entities for the Authority are the Village of
Bald Head Island, the City of Southport, and Brunswick County
that the registered agent for service of process shall be the Chairman of the
Board of Trustees or such other agent as the Board of Trustees may designate
and whose name and address is provided to the North Carolina Secretary of
State.
That the purpose of the Authority shall be to operate a reliable and safe ferry
and barge transportation system to transport passengers and freight between
Southport and the Village, provide parking facilities for those passengers on
the mainland, and to provide tram service on the island; to enhance the quality
of life, mobility, and circumstances of residents of the Village, Southport,
and Brunswick County; and to promote economic development and tourism
throughout the Cape Fear region, while protecting and preserving the
environment, in accordance with the provisions of, and with all such powers as
provided in, the Act.
That pursuant to G.S. 160A-683, public hearings were duly conducted concerning
the matter of organizing an Authority under the provisions of the Act prior to
adoption of this Concurrent Resolution.
This resolution shall become effective if and when concurrent counterparts are
adopted by the Village Council of the Village of Bald Head Island, NC and the
Board of Commissioners of Brunswick County. 
ADOPTED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, NC, this the 7th day
of August, 2017.
                      CITY OF SOUTHPORT
                      /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION
OF
BALD HEAD ISLAND TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY
In compliance with the Ferry Transportation Authority Act, Article 29 of
Chapter 160A of the North Carolina General Statutes, the Village Council of the
Village of Bald Head Island, North Carolina, the Board of Aldermen of the City
of Southport, North Carolina, and the Board of Commissioners of Brunswick
County, North Carolina, each pursuant to a resolution signifying its
determination to organize an Authority pursuant to G.S. 160A-683, which
Authority shall be a public body and body politic and corporate of the State of
North Carolina, hereby certify that:
The name of the Authority is the Bald Head Island Transportation Authority.
The Authority is organized under Article 29 of Chapter 160A of the North
Carolina General Statues.
The names of the organizing entities for the Authority are the Village of Bald
Head Island, the City of Southport, and Brunswick County.
The Authority shall be governed by a Board of Trustees consisting of eleven
(11) members selected and serving in accordance with Article 29 of Chapter 160A
of the North Carolina General Statutes.
The registered agent for service of process shall be the Chairman of the Board
of Trustees or such other agent as the Board of Trustees may designate and
whose name and address is provided to the North Carolina Secretary of State.
IN WITNESS THEREOF, the City of Southport, NC, has caused these Articles of
Incorporation to be executed by the Mayor and an official seal to be affixed
hereto and attested by the City Clerk, this the 7th day of August, 2017.
                     CITY OF SOUTHPORT
                      /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
   The Board discussed the appointment to the Authority. Board consensus to
receive applications for the position.
   Alderman Poole commented for the record that the Board took consideration of
this action seriously and spent a good bit of time reviewing it, researching,
consulting with the City Attorney, meeting with Bald Head Island affiliates and
all those involved.
   Alderman Coring echoed Alderman Poole’s comments and stated he felt
comfortable creating the Authority.
   Mayor Dove stated his opinion that the Authority will be beneficial to all
parties involved.
ADJOURN
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Powell to adjourn the meeting.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
            
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
SEPTEMBER 8, 2017
SPECIAL SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN   SPECIAL SESSION MINUTES
CITY HALL           SEPTEMBER 8, 2017
1029 N. HOWE STREET SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Karen Mosteller, Rick Pukenas, Jim Powell,
            Nelson Adams
ABSENT:         Alderman Mary Ellen Poole
            Alderman Todd Coring
STAFF PRESENT:   Bruce Oakley, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
   David Fox, Public Works Director
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   Thomas Lloyd, Planner
A)   Call to Order
Mayor Dove called the meeting to order at 3:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
   Alderman Adams welcomed everyone and Mayor Dove gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Adams led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Public Comment
   There was no public comment.
E)   APPROVAL OF AGENDA
   “if any members know of any conflict of interest or the appearance of a
conflict of interest with respect to matters on the agenda, please so state at
this time.”
   Alderman Mosteller motioned, second by Alderman Adams to approve the agenda.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
F)   Announcement
   There were no announcements
AGENDA
   1.   Award of Contract; 2017-2019 Phase II – Vegetative Debris Removal/
Disposal and C&D Debris Removal Contract; Primary Contractor DRC Emergency
Services LLC, Second Call Contractor, Southern Disaster Recover, LLC
   Public Works Director Fox stated that sealed bids had been solicited,
received, and evaluated for vegetative debris removal/disposal and C&D debris
removal for the period 2017-2019. He recommended awarding a contract to DRC
Emergency Services, LLC as primary and Southern Disaster Recovery, LLC as
second call contractor. He stated that a contract needed to be in place prior
to the need for services.
   Alderman Powell questioned the estimated contract cost and what percentage
of that would be reimbursed by FEMA.
   Public Works Director Fox noted that FEMA reimbursed 100% for the service
performed by city staff after Hurricane Michael in 2016. He added that there is
no financial obligation for the city by awarding the contracts and the services
could only be activated by a declaration from the Mayor.    
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to award the contract
for vegetative debris removal/disposal and C&D debris removal.
Discussion
   Responding to a query from Alderman Mosteller, Public Works Director Fox
stated that the funding for contract monitoring services by Johnson
Environmental & Disaster Consulting was budgeted.
   Alderman Adams pointed out that in the past, when approving contracts, the
city attorney had been present.
   Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   2.   Award of Contract; 2017-2019 Phase II – Dangerous Trees and Hanging
Limbs Removal and Disposal Contract; Primary Contractor Southern Disaster
Recovery, LLC, Second Call Contractor Custom Tree Care, Inc.
   Public Works Director Fox stated that sealed bids had been solicited,
received, and evaluated for dangerous trees and hanging limbs removal and
disposal for the period 2017-2019. He recommended awarding a contract to
Southern Disaster Recovery, LLC as primary and Custom Tree Care, Inc. as second
call contractor. He stated that a contract needed to be in place prior to the
need for services. He pointed out that FEMA did not classify a 6” limb as
“dangerous.”
   Alderman Mosteller motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to award the
contract for dangerous trees and hanging limbs removal and disposal.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   3.   Extension Agreement; Johnson Environmental and Disaster Consulting
Services
   Public Works Director Fox explained that Barry Johnson of Johnson
Environmental and Disaster Consulting Services had provided disaster debris
monitoring services for the city through several hurricane seasons. Director
Fox recommended renewing the contract.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to approve the
extension agreement with Johnson Environmental & Disaster Consulting Services.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   4.   Consideration of Request from League of Women Voters to Waive Fees for
use of the Community Building for a Candidate Forum
   Parks & Recreation Director Hemphill reported that the League of Women
Voters had requested use of the Community Building free of charge for hosting a
candidate forum. She pointed out that the rates for use by non-profits would be
$50/hr. @ 2 hours for a total of $100.
   Alderman Powell noted that the event had been held during a previous
election and the fee had been waived.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to waive the fees for
use of the Community Building by the League of Women Voters. Unanimous vote;
motion carried.
   5.   Budget Amendment #5; Hurricane Preparedness
   Finance Director Trexler explained that Budget Amendment #5 is to encumber
funds for storm preparations.
   Alderman Powell stated that it was good to set aside the funds in the event
they are needed. He and emphasized that if the funds did not have to be used
for a storm event, the money be returned to the general fund expenditures board
contingency fund.
   Alderman Adams motioned, second by Alderman Powell to create an Emergency
Fund starting with the $25,000. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
STAFF REPORTS
   Fire Chief Drew gave a briefing on Hurricane Irma stating that the storm was
taking a westerly track, depending on an anticipated turn on Saturday,
September 9; the impact to the area is expected to be wind gusts up to 50 mph
on Monday, September 11. He stated he would continue to monitor and advise the
Aldermen and staff if an emergency operation meeting is necessary.
   Fire Chief Drew stated appreciation for a recent article in the State Port
Pilot about smoke alarms. He stated that the article had already prompted five
new free alarm installations by the fire department.
   Public Works Director Fox stated that Brunswick Electric Membership Corp
(BEMC) line crews were standing for any needed repair from hurricane damage. He
added that Public Works staff would be available on Saturday, September 9 if
needed.
   Parks & Recreation Director Hemphill reported that the Waterfront Park
bulkhead replacement was complete.
   Tourism Director Jones extended an invitation to the Board, staff and public
to the Fort Johnston Open House in recognition of the Brick Refurbishing
Project, Thursday, September 14, 5:00 p.m.
BOARD COMMENTS
   Alderman Adams stated that BEMC crews could stage at the International
Longshoremen’s Association hall on N. Lord Street.
   Alderman Pukenas welcomed new City Manager Bruce Oakley.
Recess
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to recess the meeting
to Thursday, September 14, 6:00 p.m. in the Community Building, 232 E. Bay
Street
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
SEPTEMBER 14, 2017
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING SEPTEMBER 14, 2017
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Karen Mosteller, Jim Powell, Todd Coring,
            Rick Pukenas
ABSENT:         Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole & Nelson Adams
STAFF PRESENT:      Bruce Oakley, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
   Gary Smith, Police Chief
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   David Fox, Public Works Director
   Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
   Randy Jones, Tourism Director
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   Thomas Lloyd, Planner
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
   Mayor Dove called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Mayor Dove welcomed everyone and gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Mayor Dove led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Public Comment
   There was no public comment.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Dove stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
E)   Approval of Agenda
   Alderman Mosteller motioned, second by Alderman Coring to approve the
agenda. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
F)   Announcements
   Mayor Dove introduced new City Manager Bruce Oakley.
   Mayor Dove announced that Jimmy Harper had offered to donate the property
known as Taylor Field at the end of East Nash Street to the City.
   City Attorney Isenberg stated that the property would be gift deeded to the
City with two (2) restrictions; the property is to be used for recreational
purposes only and a plaque is to be erected in honor of Mr. Harper’s
grandparents. Attorney Isenberg explained that the Board needs to accept
donation of the property with the stipulated caveats and approve payment for
the appraisal and survey.
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to accept the
donation of property known as “Taylor Field” from Jimmy and Ginger Harper with
two restrictions and that the City pay for an appraisal and survey. Unanimous
vote; motion carried.
   Mayor Dove announced that the Beautification Committee would hold their
monthly clean up on Saturday, September 16.
   Mayor Dove announced that a Peace Day event would be held Saturday,
September 16, 2:00 p.m. in Franklin Square Park.
   Mayor Dove reported that Fire Prevention Week would be observed October 8 –
14. He read the Resolution in Support of Fire Prevention Week and presented it
to Fire Chief Drew.
Resolution
Proclaiming October 8 – 14, 2017
Fire Prevention Week
WHEREAS, the Southport Fire Department is committed to ensuring the safety and
security of all those living in and visiting our Fire District; and
WHEREAS, fire is a serious public safety concern both locally and nationally,
and homes are the locations where people are at the greatest risk of fire; and
WHEREAS, the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) has documented through
its research a significant increase in home fires, and due to this fact, it is
important that everyone know two ways out of your home in case of a fire; and
WHEREAS, the Firefighters of the Southport Fire Department are dedicated to
reducing the occurrence of residential and commercial structural fires and fire
related injuries through prevention and protection education; and
WHEREAS, the residents of the Southport Fire District are responsive to public
education measures and are able to take personal steps to increase their safety
from fire; and
WHEREAS, being prepared in the event of a home fire will have a positive effect
on the home fire problem; and
WHEREAS, each home fire that is prevented in the Southport Fire District is an
opportunity to prevent painful injury and costly property damage; and
WHEREAS, the 2017 Fire Prevention Week theme, Every Second Counts – Know 2 Ways
Out, effectively serves to remind us all of the simple actions we can take to
stay safer from fire every day.
THEREFORE, I, J. V. Dove, Mayor of the City of Southport do hereby proclaim
October 8-14, 2017 as Fire Prevention Week throughout this City, and I urge all
the citizens of Southport to heed the important safety messages from the
Southport Fire Prevention Team, and the Office of the City Fire Marshal and to
support the many public safety activities and efforts of the Southport Fire
Department.
                     /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
   Alderman Mosteller reported that the Beautification Committee clean up
scheduled for September 16 was in conjunction with International Clean-Up Day
and the committee would be also working with Coastal Water Watch.
   Alderman Coring stated that the fire department had received a grant for
smoke detectors. He emphasized that firefighters would install detectors, check
and replace batteries and he encouraged everyone to take advantage of the
service. He accentuated the importance of smoke alarms in saving lives.
   Alderman Powell thanked city staff for storm preparations undertaken with
the recent threat of a hurricane. He announced that the bi-annual free trash
week was being held at Stevens Park.
   Alderman Pukenas announced that the Wooden Boat Show, one of the biggest
events in Southport, would be held on Saturday, September 30th in the Yacht
Basin.   
   Mayor Dove read the Resolution in Support of the Wooden Boat Show and
presented it to a Show representative.
   RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, on Saturday, September 30, 2017 the Southport Wooden Boat Show will be
held at the Old Southport Yacht Basin; and
WHEREAS, the 8th Annual Southport Wooden Boat Show, a 501(c) 3 organization
will be held from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m.; and
WHEREAS, this year’s show is expected to be bigger and better than the previous
events with more boats, demonstrators, nautical/maritime exhibits and children
events; and
WHEREAS, boats will be displayed in and around the historic Old Yacht Basin;
and
WHEREAS, visitors can meet and talk with wooden boat makers and owners; and
WHEREAS, visitors will be able to vote for their favorite boat entrant for the
People’s Choice Award, and
WHEREAS, other awards will be given in various categories; and
WHEREAS, wooden boat shows across the country are popular with boat builders
and restorers; and
WHEREAS, the Southport Wooden Boat Show Committee encourages people to preserve
the wooden boat and nautical history for which Southport is known.
NOW  THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Mayor and Southport Board of Aldermen
on this the 14th day of September, hereby proclaim September 30, 2017 as
Southport Wooden Boat Show Day in the City of Southport and invite citizens and
surrounding communities to help make this day a success.
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
/s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to approve the consent
agenda.   Unanimous vote; motion carried.
1.   Approval of Minutes for August 3 Regular Meeting & August 7 Recessed
Session –    approved
2.   Resolution in Support of Wooden Boat Show - approved
3.   Resolution in Support of Fire Prevention Week – approved
4 .   Resolution Requesting NCDOT Undertake a Study of an Additional Traffic
Light on    North Howe Street - approved
5 .   Letter of Agreement; Fire Department to Provide Assistance to Support the
Duke Energy    Nuclear Plant’s Emergency Plan – approved (Agreement on file in
the Clerk’s office)
6 .   Budget Transfer #1; Capital Budget Equipment Purchase - approved
7.   Budget Transfer #2; Franklin Square Art Gallery Project – approved
8.   Services Agreement with Cape Fear Council of Government (COG) to Perform
the City of    Southport Wastewater Asset Management Plan – approved (Agreement
on file in the Clerk’s office)
9.   Award of Contract for Bay Street Lift Station Repair – approved
   (Contract on file in the Clerk’s office)
10.   Final Plat, Jonas Creek Phase 2B – approved
A RESOLUTION REQUESTING THE NORTH CAROLINA DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
UNDERTAKE A STUDY OF AN ADDITIONAL TRAFFIC LIGHT ON NORTH HOWE STREET
WHEREAS, the citizens of the City of Southport and all those who visit,
appreciate and enjoy the unique history, charm and appeal that the Southport
area offers; and
WHEREAS, the safe use of roads and highways is of utmost importance to not only
the citizens of Southport, but also to our visitors from this great State and
other states and countries; and
WHEREAS, at the September 8, 2016 Board of Aldermen meeting, a representative
of NCDOT stated that the average daily traffic on N.C. 211 between Southport
and the Long Beach Road is 35,000 – 50,000 vehicles and ranks at the top of
NCDOT Division 3; and
WHEREAS, much of this traffic is traveling through the City of Southport; and
WHEREAS, Howe Street is a State-maintained road and has only three signalized
intersections and thirteen unsignalized intersections; and
WHEREAS, this creates a dangerous situation for drivers attempting to turn left
onto Howe Street due to the high traffic count Howe Street experiences and the
numerous unsignalized intersections.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport, North Carolina, that the City of Southport requests that the North
Carolina Department of Transportation undertake a feasibility study for
installing a traffic light on N. Howe Street in the area of 12th and 14th
Streets.
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, September 14,
2017.
 
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1844_842x829.jpg]
 
Budget Transfer 1
Fiscal Year 2017-2018
REQUEST FOR BUDGET TRANSFER UNDER BUDGET OFFICER AUTHORITY
I hereby request approval for a transfer of funds within the authority of the
city manager to adjust Capital Purchases Vehicles and Equipment for the Water
and Sewer Department, the proposed transfers will still leave sufficient funds
in those line items to meet the needs for the balance of this fiscal year
ending June 30, 2018.
Account Number         Description      Original      New           Transfer
                        Budget      Budget   Amount
FUND 31 – Water & Sewer Fund
DEPT 91 – Water/Sewer
EXPENSE
Annual Budget
31-91-7130-5100         Capital Outlay -
   127,000.00      124,000.00   3,000.00 Transfer to 31-91-7130-5400
               Equipment
31-91-7130-5400         Capital Outlay -     52,000.00      
55,000.00   3,000.00 Transfer to 31-91-7130-5100
               Vehicles
Finance Director
/s/ Melanie Trexler   Date 8/11/17
City Manager Approval
/s/ John Bauer    Date 8/11/17
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1847_842x829.jpg]
Budget Transfer 2
Fiscal Year 2017-2018
REQUEST FOR BUDGET TRANSFER UNDER BUDGET OFFICER AUTHORITY
I hereby request approval for a transfer of funds within the authority of the
city manager to adjust Capital Outlay-Between the Street Department and
Buildings & Grounds for the Franklin Square Museum Project, the proposed
transfers will still leave sufficient funds in those line items to meet the
needs for the balance of this fiscal year ending June 30, 2018.
Account Number         Description      Original   New           Transfer
                        Budget   Budget   Amount
DEPT 05 – Streets
EXPENSE
Annual Budget
10-05-4511-5000         Capital Outlay -
   Annual      30,000.00   22,000.00   8,000.00
FUND 10 – General Fund
DEPT 03 – Buildings & Grounds
EXPENSE
Annual Budget
10-03-4190-5800         Capital Outlay -
   Annual      42,000.00   50,000.00    8,000.00
               Facilities
Finance Director
/s/ Melanie Trexler   Date 8/28/17
City Manager Approval
/a/ John Bauer   Date 8/28/17
AGENDA
11.   Second Reading: Golf Cart Ordinance Revisions
   Alderman Mosteller reported that the Golf Cart Committee comprised of
Alderman Poole, Alderman Pukenas, City Planner Lloyd, Building Inspector
Strickland, Police Chief Smith, and herself, had reviewed the concerns voiced
by the Board of Aldermen during the first reading of the proposed ordinance
revisions.
   Alderman Mosteller stated that the Committee recommends that the City
request low speed vehicles, which are regulated by the State, register with the
City and get a sticker free of charge so the City can maintain an accurate
count of low speed vehicles in Southport. She indicated that the Committee also
recommends that golf carts be required to have front headlights and/or
equivalent light bar.
   Referencing the NC Drive Manual, Alderman Mosteller indicated the Committee
revisited the 18 years of age requirement for operation of a golf cart and
recommended retaining 18 due to the fact that a valid NC driver’s license
issued at age 15 – 18 is a provisional license with specific restrictions and
statistics show that younger drivers have more accidents.
   Alderman Powell stated his opinion that golf carts should be inspected once
a year as are low speed vehicles, i.e. lights, turn signals, wear on the tires.
Alderman Mosteller stated that a sticker from the City would be required
annually following an inspection by the Police Department.
   Alderman Mosteller motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to adopt the Golf
Cart Ordinance Revisions. Unanimous vote; motion carried. 
 City of Southport Golf Cart Ordinance
Sec. 17-80. - Golf carts.
(a) DEFINITIONS
(1) GOLF CART.  A vehicle designed and manufactured for operation on a golf
course for sporting or recreational purposes and that is not capable of
exceeding speeds of 20 mph.
(2) OPERATE.  To drive, or be in physical control of a golf cart that is moving
or has its key inserted and in the on position.
(b) REGISTRATION AND PERMIT REQUIREMENTS
(1) Registration and Permit required. In order to operate a golf cart in the
corporate limits of the City of Southport under this section, the golf cart
must be registered annually with the City of Southport using an application
furnished by the city. A twenty-five dollar ($25.00) per year registration fee,
from July 1 through June 30, must be paid to the City before a registration
sticker is issued. The registration sticker must be displayed on the left rear
fender of the golf cart. Low speed vehicles subject to state regulation and
licenses will be exempt from a permit and inspection, but the City of Southport
requests low speed vehicle owners to register with the City and obtain a
sticker free of charge so the City can maintain an accurate count of low speed
vehicles in Southport.
(2) Basic requirements. In order to register a golf cart and secure an annual
permit, the owner and golf cart must meet the following basic requirements:
a. All golf cart operators must be 18 years of age or older and possess a full
valid driver's license, except any driver or operator 18 years of age or older
with a medical or physical condition that prevents that individual from being
able to obtain a valid North Carolina driver’s license. Any driver or operator
with such a medical or physical condition must have certification from an
appropriate medical professional that they can safely operate a golf cart. Any
driver or operator that is exempt from the requirement of a valid North
Carolina license must still present and have a valid North Carolina
Identification card on record and while operating a golf cart.
b. The owner must possess and maintain liability insurance in an amount not
less than required by North Carolina law for traditional motor vehicles
operated on a public street or highway.
c. The golf cart must have an identifiable vehicle identification number.
(3) Required safety features. In order to register a golf cart and secure an
annual permit, a golf cart must have the following safety features installed:
a. Two operating LED front headlights or an equivalent light bar, visible from
a distance of at least 250 feet;
b. Two operating tail lights, with brake lights and turn signals, visible from
a distance of at least 250 feet
c. A rear vision mirror;
d. An air horn
e. Stop lamps
f. At least one reflector per side;
g. A parking brake;
h. A Type 1 or Type 2 seat belt assembly conforming to section 571.209 of the
Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 209 installed at each designated
seating position.
i. A windshield; and
j. Must be limited to a maximum of three rows of seats.
k. Any modification to the golf cart must comply with all safety requirements
of this section and must be inspected by the appropriate City staff prior to
operation.
(4) Unobstructed views. No golf cart shall be registered, approved for use, or
operated on the city’s streets if the operator’s view is materially obstructed,
obscured, or impaired by any sign, poster, sticker, or other non- transparent
material placed upon any front windshield, or side or rear window.
(5) Dimension and weight limits. No golf cart shall be registered or approved
for use, or operated on the city’s streets if the overall dimensions and/or
weight of the vehicle exceed any of the following dimensions:
a. Length: 160.00 inches; 13 feet 4 inches
b. Height: 84.00 inches 7 feet
c. Width: 60.00 inches 5 feet
d. Weight: 1,600.00 pounds. Weight shall be determined by the manufacturer’s
published data or, if none is available, then by the vehicle’s curb weight.
Curb weight, for purposes hereof, is defined as the weight of the vehicle in an
operational status with all fluids and components, including batteries, but
without driver, passengers or cargo.
(6) Inspection. Prior to the issuance of a permit, designated city staff shall
inspect the golf cart for compliance with the requirements of this section. No
golf cart shall be registered and permitted unless it is in compliance with all
requirements.
(7) Acknowledgment. Prior to issuance of a permit, the owner shall sign an
acknowledgment that he or she has read and understands the provisions of this
section.
(8) Disqualified vehicles. All-terrain vehicles, 4-wheel utility vehicles, go-
karts, and other similar utility vehicles which are not manufactured for
operation on a golf course, and/or a golf cart which has been modified so that
it no longer meets the definition of golf cart may not be registered as a golf
cart under this section or shall such vehicles be operated on the public roads,
streets and highways within the city, unless such vehicles are registered and
permitted under the motor vehicle laws of North Carolina.
(9) Exceptions:
a. The operation of golf carts on private property, with the consent of the
owner
b. The operation of golf carts within private, gated, or limited access
communities, unless the streets of the community are dedicated for public use
and maintained by the city;
c. The use of a golf cart in connection with a parade, a festival, or other
special event provided the consent of the sponsor is obtained, the police
department is notified, and provided the golf cart is only used during such
event; and
d. The use of city vehicles by city personnel, or other governmental agencies
and/or public service agencies on official business.
(c) OPERATION ON PUBLIC STREETS AND ROADS. It is unlawful to operate a golf
cart on any public street or road within the City except in accordance with the
following regulations:
(1) The golf cart may only be operated on streets and roads that have a posted
speed limit of 35 miles per hour or less.
(2) A golf cart must display a valid city-issued golf cart annual registration
sticker.
(3) All golf cart operators must be 18 years of age or older and possess a full
valid driver's license, except any driver or operator 18 years of age or older
with a medical or physical condition that prevents that individual from being
able to obtain a valid North Carolina driver’s license. Any driver or operator
with such a medical or physical condition must have certification from an
appropriate medical professional that they can safely operate a golf cart. Any
driver or operator that is exempt from the requirement of a valid North
Carolina license must still present and have a valid North Carolina
Identification card on record and while operating a golf cart.
(4) No golf cart may be operated at a speed greater than reasonable and prudent
for the existing conditions, and in no instance at a speed greater than 20
miles per hour.
(5) No golf cart may be operated in a careless or reckless manner
(6) The driver and passengers must be properly seated while the golf cart is in
motion, the seating capacity with seat belts shall not be exceeded.
(7) Golf carts must be operated to the extreme right of the roadway and must
yield to all vehicular and pedestrian traffic
(8) Golf carts may not be operated or parked on any sidewalk or in any city
park, except for golf carts operated by governmental or public service agencies
for official purposes.
(9) Golf carts must be operated in accordance with all applicable state and
local laws and ordinances, including all laws, regulations and ordinances
pertaining to the possession and use of alcoholic beverages and other impairing
substances.
(10) Golf carts may only be parked in the same manner and at the same places
designated for the parking of motor vehicles or in parking spaces specifically
dedicated for golf cart parking.
(11) Golf carts may only park in handicapped parking spaces if the driver has a
valid handicapped placard or sticker and the same is clearly posted or
displayed in the golf cart.
(12) Golf carts may not be used for the purpose of towing another cart, trailer
or vehicle of any kind, including a person on roller skates, skateboard, or
bicycle.
(13) The possession of open containers of alcohol and/or consumption of alcohol
by the driver and/or passengers of a golf cart is prohibited.
(14) Golf carts may not be used as a taxicab or bus or for the commercial
carrying of passengers or the hauling of freight.
(15) All golf carts are required to maintain liability insurance at the same
level as required for automobiles.
(16) Golf carts shall not be operated on or across any public or private
properties without the permission of the property owner.
(17) During an emergency situation or at a special event, any police officer
supervising or controlling traffic may direct that golf carts be operated only
on or upon certain streets or locations as directed by the officer.
(d) PENALTIES
(1) In addition to constituting a misdemeanor or infraction as provided by G.S.
14-4, violation of any provision of this ordinance shall subject the offender
to a civil penalty in the amount of $ 50 for each separate of distinct offense
to be recovered by the city in an action in the nature of debt if not paid by
the offender within 72 hours after being cited for the violation.
(2) Operating a golf cart under the influence of an impairing substance (i.e.,
alcohol or drugs) on a public street or road is a violation of state law, and
is punishable as provided therein. The charging officer does not have
discretion to issue a civil citation for violation of this subsection.
(3) The city may refuse to register and issue a permit for the operation of a
golf cart, or may revoke a previously issued permit, if the registered golf
cart and/or the owner of the golf cart is involved in three or more violations
of this section and/or violations of state law pertaining to within a three-
year time period. Said revocation and/or denial of a permit shall be effective
for one year.
(e) LIABILITY DISCLAIMER
(1) This section is adopted to address the interest of public safety. Golf
carts are not designed or manufactured to be used on the public streets and the
city is no way advocates or endorses their operation on public streets or
roads. The City, by regulating this operation, is addressing obvious safety
issues, and adoption of this section is not to be relied upon as determination
that operation on public streets is safe or advisable if done in accordance
with this section. All persons who operate or ride upon golf carts on public
streets or roads do so at their own risk and peril, and must be observant of
and attentive to the safety of themselves and others, including their
passengers, other motorists, bicyclists and pedestrians. The City has no
liability under any theory of liability and the city assumes no liability, for
permitting golf carts to be operated on the public streets and roads under the
special legislation granted by the state legislature.  
12.   Award of Contract, W.K. Dickson, Wastewater Treatment Plant Expansion
   Project
13.   Cades Cove Paving Contract: Award to Port City Grading & Paving, Inc. in
   Amount Not to Exceed $179,177.46
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to defer consideration
of Agenda Item #12 & #13. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
14.   Fire Pumper Financing Award to BB&T in Amount Not to Exceed $450,000 &
Adoption of Resolution Approving Financing Terms
   Fire Chief Drew explained that the purchase of a new fire pumper was put out
to bids with three (3) bids received. He stated that staff recommends award to
BB&T which came in as the low bidder on a five (5) year term at a 1.97%
interest rate.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to award the financing
of a fire pumper vehicle to BB&T for not to exceed $450,000 and to adopt the
Resolution Approving Financing Terms. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Resolution Approving Financing Terms
   WHEREAS: The City of Southport (“City”) has previously determined to
undertake a project for the financing of a fire truck, (the “Project”), and the
Finance Officer has now presented a proposal for the financing of such Project.
   BE IT THEREFORE RESOLVED, as follows:
   1.   The City hereby determines to finance the Project through Branch
Banking and Trust Company (“BB&T”), in accordance with the proposal dated
September 1, 2017. The amount financed shall not exceed $450,000.00, and the
annual interest rate (in the absence of default or change in tax status) shall
not exceed 1.97%, and the financing term shall not exceed sixty (60) months
from closing.
   2.   All financing contracts and all related documents for the closing of
the financing (the “Financing Documents”) shall be consistent with the
foregoing terms. The Mayor, City Manager, and Finance Director of the City are
hereby authorized and directed to execute and deliver any Financing Documents,
and to take all such further action as they may consider necessary or
desirable, to carry out the financing of the Project as contemplated by the
proposal and this resolution.
   3.   The Finance Director is hereby authorized and directed to hold executed
copies of the Financing Documents until the conditions for the delivery of the
Financing Documents have been completed to such officer's satisfaction. The
Finance Director is authorized to approve changes to any Financing Documents
previously signed by City officers or employees, provided that such changes
shall not substantially alter the intent of such documents or certificates from
the intent expressed in the forms executed by such officers. The Financing
Documents shall be in such final forms as the Finance Officer shall approve,
with the Finance Officer’s release of any Financing Document for delivery
constituting conclusive evidence of such officer's final approval of the
Document’s final form.
   4.   The City shall not take or omit to take any action the taking or
omission of which shall cause its interest payments on this financing to be
includable in the gross income for federal income tax purposes of the
registered owners of the interest payment obligations. The City hereby
designates its obligations to make principal and interest payments under the
Financing Documents as "qualified tax-exempt obligations" for the purpose of
Internal Revenue Code Section 265(b)(3).   
   5.   The City intends that the adoption of this resolution will be a
declaration of the City’s official intent to reimburse expenditures for the
project that is to be financed from the proceeds of the BB&T financing
described above. The City intends that funds that have been advanced, or that
may be advanced, from the City’s general fund, or any other City fund related
to the project, for project costs may be reimbursed from the financing
proceeds.
   6.   All prior actions of City officers in furtherance of the purposes of
this resolution are hereby ratified, approved and confirmed. All other
resolutions (or parts thereof) in conflict with this resolution are hereby
repealed, to the extent of the conflict. This resolution shall take effect
immediately.
Approved this 14th day of September, 2017.
      By: /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor   
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
15.   Appointment of Public Official to Sunny Point Land Use Plan Policy
Committee
   Mayor Dove explained that Military Ocean Terminal Sunny Point had formed a
committee to study potential enhancements to the area surrounding it. He
pointed out that a representative on the Committee from Southport is desirable
as the City of Southport owns approximately 400 acres near the terminal.
   Alderman Pukenas volunteered for the appointment. Mayor Dove appointed
Alderman Pukenas to the Sunny Point Land Use Plan Policy Committee and he
appointed Alderman Coring as an alternate.
16.   Resolution Requesting State Grant for a Water Distribution System Asset
Inventory and Assessment Project
   City Planner Lloyd explained that staff plans to resubmit for a $52,000
grant from North Carolina Department of Environmental Quality (NCDEQ), Division
of Water Infrastructure in order to assess and digitally map the City’s water
distribution system. He pointed out that the City would be required to match
$13,000 which he indicated is funded in the current budget.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to adopt a Resolution
Requesting State Grant for a Water Distribution System Asset Inventory and
Assessment Project. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
RESOLUTION BY GOVERNING BODY OF APPLICANT
WHEREAS,   The Federal Clean Water Act Amendments of 1987 and the North
Carolina Water Infrastructure Act of 2005 (NCGS 159G) have authorized the
making of loans and grants to aid eligible units of government in financing the
cost of a water distribution system project, and
WHEREAS,   The City of Southport has need for and intends to complete a water
distribution system project described as facilities assessment of the City’s
water distribution system to include system mapping, and
WHEREAS,   The City of Southport intends to request state loan and grant (if
available) assistance for the project,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, BY THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN OF THE CITY OF
SOUTHPORT:
That the City of Southport, the Applicant, will arrange financing for all
remaining costs of the project, if approved for a State (loan or grant) award.
That the Applicant will adopt and place into effect on or before completion of
the project a schedule of fees and charges and other available funds which will
provide adequate funds for proper operation, maintenance, and administration of
the system and the repayment of all principal and interest on the debt.
That the governing body of the Applicant agrees to include in the loan
agreement a provision authorizing the State Treasurer, upon failure of the City
of Southport to make scheduled repayment of the loan, to withhold from the City
of Southport any State funds that would otherwise be distributed to the local
government unit in an amount sufficient to pay all sums then due and payable to
the State as a repayment of the loan.
That the Applicant will provide for efficient operation and maintenance of the
project on completion of construction thereof.
That Bruce Oakley, City Manager, the Authorized Official, and successors so
titled, is hereby authorized to execute and file an application on behalf of
the Applicant with the State of North Carolina for a (loan or grant) to aid in
the construction of the project described above.
That the Authorized Official, and successors so titled, is hereby authorized
and directed to furnish such information as the appropriate State agency may
request in connection with such application or the project: to make the
assurances as contained above; and to execute such other documents as may be
required in connection with the application.
That the Applicant has substantially complied or will substantially comply with
all Federal, State, and local laws, rules, regulations, and ordinances
applicable to the project and to Federal and State grants and loans pertaining
thereto.
Adopted this the 14th day of September, 2017 at Southport, North Carolina.
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
17.   Resolution Requesting State Grant for a Waste Water Collection System
Asset Inventory and Assessment Project
   City Planner Lloyd explained that the City was awarded $45,000 in grant
funding by the State for the assessment and mapping of the wastewater
collection system. He stated that staff plans to reapply for an additional
grant to complete the $65,000 estimated project. He pointed out that the City
would be required to match $4,000 which he indicated is funded in the current
budget.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to adopt a Resolution
Requesting State Grant for a Waste Water Collection System Asset Inventory and
Assessment Project.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
RESOLUTION BY GOVERNING BODY OF APPLICANT
WHEREAS,   The Federal Clean Water Act Amendments of 1987 and the North
Carolina Water Infrastructure Act of 2005 (NCGS 159G) have authorized the
making of loans and grants to aid eligible units of government in financing the
cost of a wastewater collection system project, and
WHEREAS,   The City of Southport has need for and intends to complete a
wastewater collection system project described as facilities assessment of the
City’s wastewater collection system to include system mapping, and
WHEREAS,   The City of Southport intends to request state loan and grant (if
available) assistance for the project,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, BY THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN OF THE CITY OF
SOUTHPORT:
That the City of Southport, the Applicant, will arrange financing for all
remaining costs of the project, if approved for a State (loan or grant) award.
That the Applicant will adopt and place into effect on or before completion of
the project a schedule of fees and charges and other available funds which will
provide adequate funds for proper operation, maintenance, and administration of
the system and the repayment of all principal and interest on the debt.
That the governing body of the Applicant agrees to include in the loan
agreement a provision authorizing the State Treasurer, upon failure of the City
of Southport to make scheduled repayment of the loan, to withhold from the City
of Southport any State funds that would otherwise be distributed to the local
government unit in an amount sufficient to pay all sums then due and payable to
the State as a repayment of the loan.
That the Applicant will provide for efficient operation and maintenance of the
project on completion of construction thereof.
That Bruce Oakley, City Manager, the Authorized Official, and successors so
titled, is hereby authorized to execute and file an application on behalf of
the Applicant with the State of North Carolina for a (loan or grant) to aid in
the construction of the project described above.
That the Authorized Official, and successors so titled, is hereby authorized
and directed to furnish such information as the appropriate State agency may
request in connection with such application or the project: to make the
assurances as contained above; and to execute such other documents as may be
required in connection with the application.
That the Applicant has substantially complied or will substantially comply with
all Federal, State, and local laws, rules, regulations, and ordinances
applicable to the project and to Federal and State grants and loans pertaining
thereto.
Adopted this the 14th day of September, 2017 at Southport, North Carolina.
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
18.   Appointment to Forestry Committee
   Alderman Mosteller reported that the Forestry Committee had two (2)
vacancies, the vacancies were advertised and applications were received.
   Alderman Mosteller motioned, second by Alderman Coring to appoint Harry
Singley and Jesse McPherson to the Forestry Committee. Unanimous vote; motion
carried.
19.   Appointment to Bald Head Island Transportation Authority
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to appoint Alderman
Powell to the Bald Head Island Transportation Authority.
   Discussion
   Alderman Mosteller pointed out that another qualified applicant, Mr. V. Ray
Martin Jr., had submitted his name for consideration. Noting that additional
representation of Southport on the Authority would be beneficial, she suggested
submitting Mr. Martin’s name to the Governor and Southport’s State
Representatives for their consideration.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
REPORTS FROM MANAGER
   City Manager Oakley reviewed the Project Report, included in the agenda
packet, with the Board. He pointed out that work on the Bay Street Drainage
projects would begin the week of September 18, the fiber optic project is
nearing completion and he has been in contact with the Governor’s office for
assistance with dredging at the City Boat Dock.
STAFF REPORTS
   Reports included in the agenda packet.
   Tourism Director Jones extended invitation to the Board for a business thank
you breakfast, Wednesday, September 20, 8:30 a.m. in the Community Building. He
indicated that the breakfast was sponsored through a grant from ElectriCities
and he intends to introduce the new city manager and debut the new city web
page.
   Tourism Director Jones also invited the Board to attend the Wooden Boat Show
reception, Friday, September 29, 5:00 – 7:00 p.m. at Marker 614 Coastal Banquet
Hall, 614 W. West Street.
   Fire Chief Drew reported that during Fire Prevention Week there are 15
programs planned in schools, day cares, senior centers, nursing homes, etc. He
stated that any entity wishing to participate can be added to the schedule. He
added that there will also be campaigns throughout the community testing and
installing smoke alarms and replacing batteries.    
BOARD COMMENTS
   Board members thanked city staff for keeping the city safe and being
prepared for a potential storm event.
ADJOURN  
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to adjourn the meeting.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.   
                        /s/ J.V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
OCTOBER 12, 2017   
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN        REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
RIVERMIST AMENITY CENTER OCTOBER 12, 2017
5211 FLANK COURT         SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:   Mayor J.V. Dove
      Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Karen Mosteller, Jim Powell, Rick Pukenas,
Nelson Adams
ABSENT:   Todd Coring
STAFF PRESENT:   Bruce Oakley, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
   Gary Smith, Police Chief
   David Fox, Public Works Director
   Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
   Randy Jones, Tourism Director
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   Thomas Lloyd, Planner
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Dove called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Mosteller welcomed everyone and Mayor Dove gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Mosteller led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Public Comment
   Mr. Jack Palmer, President of the Rivermist POA, on behalf of the residents,
welcomed the Mayor, Board and city officials to the Rivermist Amenity Center.
   Mr. Nick Kern, 415 Burrington Avenue, shared his concerns about The Haven
subdivision, i.e. dead end streets, inadequate turn arounds at the end of
streets, parking space, shared driveways, hardwood trees to be removed, and
proximity to sanitary pump station. He suggested sending the preliminary plat
back to the Planning Board for further review.
   Ms. Gloria Jones, speaking on behalf of Friends of Southport Feral Cats,
recognized approximately 12 members of the group present in the audience and
she read the following:
   “My name is Gloria Jones and I am a lifetime resident of Southport. I am
making this presentation on behalf of the Friends of Southport Ferals. We are
an advocacy organization dedicated to protecting and caring for the Southport
feral cats.
   We would like to make you aware of our organization and solicit your support
of our effort in the TNR program in the Southport Community. The Friends of
Southport Ferals is a non-profit community service organization staffed by
volunteers and funded by donations. We are an action group formed to accomplish
the following goals:
   1.   Identify all feral cat colonies in the Southport area
   2.   Rescue stray/homeless cats and relocate them to a colony
   3.   Recruit volunteers for the following needs:
      maintain/care for colonies
      help with trapping/transporting to Vet
      care for after surgery (usually 24 hours)
      foster/tame/train kittens to be adopted out
   4.   Plan/organize/participate in fundraising
   5.   Educate the community to the need/importance of cats in the community
   6.   Seek low cost vet care
   7.   Establish a 501©3 corporation and apply for grants
   Feral cats (aka, community cats) are the same species as pet cats, but feral
cats are not adoptable. “feral” means that the cats are not socialized to
people and generally avoid contact with humans. Under TNR, these unadoptable
cats are neutered and vaccinated. As a result, the feral cat population
stabilizes and decreases. TNR makes feral cats healthier and ends the breeding
cycle, which means no more kittens. It also ends mating behaviors including
yowling, fighting, spraying, and roaming. Feral cats in TNR programs are just
as healthy as pet cats. They receive vaccinations and ongoing management from
generous volunteers. Under the TNR, cats are humanely trapped, neutered,
vaccinated, ear tipped for identification, and returned to their outdoor homes.
   More and more communities are embracing TNR. Our neighbors in Oak Island
have a well-established society. Humanely trapping, spaying or neutering,
vaccinating and returning cats to their outdoor homes are not only good for the
cats, but it also balances the needs and concerns of the human communities in
which many feral cats live. We want to see the cat population stabilized and
mating behaviors curbed. TNR makes great public policy. It is a purposeful and
balanced approach that helps improve the coexistence of outdoor cats and humans
in their shared communities. This is why so many communities are adopting it.
   The Friends of Southport Ferals meets the 4th Thursday of each month at 4
p.m. at the Southport Library. We extend an invitation to you to attend our
meetings.
   Thank you for your time and consideration.”
   Alderman Mosteller thanked Ms. Jones for bringing the topic to the Board and
a public forum.
   Alderman Poole thanked Ms. Jones for her leadership and establishing the
group. Alderman Poole suggested preparing a resolution in support of the
endeavor for consideration at the Board’s next meeting.
    Per a citizen’s request, Mayor Dove read the following comments into the
record:
   I would like to thank the Southport Board of Aldermen for the resolution
supporting the Lions Vision Month. You are all aware of the many good works
that the Lions Clubs do. The Southport Lions Club has carried the work of
helping to another step. The Southport Lions Club helps with cataract surgeries
for many of our local citizens that need help. The Southport Lions Club has
accepted the challenge that Helen Keller gave to the Lions many years ago to
become, "Knights of the blind in the crusade against darkness".
Thank you board for your support.
Ed Boguskie
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Dove stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
E)   Approval of Agenda
    Alderman Mosteller motioned, second by Alderman Powell to amend the Agenda
by (1) adding approval of September 8 Special Session Minutes to Consent
Agenda, (2) removing #6 from Consent Agenda for later consideration and (3) by
adding to Consent Agenda item #7 that all revisions to the Golf Cart Ordinance
will not go into effect until January 31, 2018. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
F)   Announcements
   Mayor Dove announced that the Wounded Warrior Ride would be in Southport on
Wednesday, October 18, 10:00 a.m. at Waterfront Park.
   Mayor Dove thanked the Beautification Committee for their efforts making the
city beautiful. He also thanked those that recently trimmed trees throughout
the community.
   Mayor Dove announced that he would hold “Mayor’s Day” on Thursday, October
19, 4:00 – 5:30 p.m. in the Fire Substation, 111 E. Nash Street.
   Alderman Mosteller announced that the Beautification Committee would meet on
Saturday, November 4, 9:00 – 12:00, at the Fire Substation to fluff, puff and
prep for Christmas decorating.
   Alderman Mosteller announced that the annual lighting of the Christmas tree
in Franklin Square Park would be held Friday, November 24, 5:00 – 6:00 p.m.
   Alderman Pukenas announced that the rescheduled Military Appreciation Day
would be held on Saturday, October 21st.
   Alderman Pukenas announced that the Nutcracker Tea Party would be held
Saturday, December 2, 1:00 p.m. at the Community Building as a fundraiser for
the Garrison Brick Project.
G)   Special Recognition – Lions Club
   Mayor Dove read a Resolution in Recognition of the Lions Club and presented
the resolution to members attending the meeting.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1850_1246x1157.jpg]    
Resolution
Southport Lions Celebrating October as Vision Awareness Month
WHEREAS, the Southport Lions Club was established 72 years ago (1945) by some
of the most prominent citizens in our community; and
WHEREAS, the Southport Lions Club continues honor the challenge Helen Keller
issued to the Club in 1929 to become “knights of the blind in the crusade
against darkness”; and
WHEREAS, the Southport Lions Club conducts vision screenings every month at the
New Hope Clinic, each year at numerous local schools, and at the Brunswick
County Health Festival; and
WHEREAS, the Southport Lions Club has covered the expense of cataract surgery
for needy individuals over the past 5 years; and
WHEREAS, the Southport Lions Club collects over 1,700 pairs of glasses each
year and provides assistance to those needing, but unable to afford, eye exams
and the purchase of glasses; and
WHEREAS, the Southport Lions Club contributes financial and volunteer support
to over 20 local charities and youth programs; and
WHEREAS, the Southport Lions Club is composed of men and women who dedicate
their time to the betterment of our community and aiding those in need; and
NOW THEREFORE, I, J. V. Dove, Mayor of the City of Southport, NC and the Board
of Aldermen, hereby join the Southport Lions in celebrating October as Vision
Awareness Month.
ADOPTED, this 12th day of October 2017 by the Southport Board of Aldermen.
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Adams to adopt the Southport
Lions Celebrating October as Vision Awareness Month Resolution. Unanimous vote;
motion carried.
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to approve the Consent
Agenda as amended.   Unanimous vote; motion carried.
1.   Approval of Minutes for September 8 Special Session Meeting & September 14
Regular Meeting –    approved
2.   Appoint City Manager to NCEMPA Board of Commissioners as Second Alternate
- approved
3.   Replacement of Existing SCADA Server – approved
4 .   Accept McGill Associates Proposal to Prepare a Public Water and Sewer
System Development Fee    Analysis - approved
5 .   Budget Transfer #3: Supplemental Fire/EMS Personnel Insurance Policy –
approved
6 .   Preliminary Plat Approval; The Haven Subdivision – removed from Consent
Agenda (see Board Comments)
7.   Adopt Golf Cart Ordinance Revisions – approved - revisions effective 1/31/
2018
AGENDA
8.   Presentation; Gloria Jones, Friends of Southport Feral Cats
   Miss Jones spoke during Public Comment.
9.   Recommend Approval of Contract, W. K. Dickson, Wastewater Treatment Plant
   Expansion Project
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to recommend that
Brunswick County approve the Services Agreement with W.K. Dickson & Co. for the
Wastewater Treatment Plant Expansion Project. Unanimous vote; motion carried. 
(Agreement on file in the Clerk’s office)
10.   Budget Amendment #6; Bay Street Storm Drain Repair
   Finance Director Trexler explained that prior year Powell bill
appropriations and contributions received needed to be appropriated to
facilitate drainage repairs on Bay Street.
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Powell to approve Budget
Amendment #6, Bay Street Storm Drain Repair as presented.
Discussion
   Alderman Adams asked what the remaining balance of Powell Bill funds was.
Finance Director Trexler responded that one half of the annual Powell Bill
funding had been received and the additional funding is anticipated to be
received in February, 2018.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1853_855x840.jpg]
 
Budget Amendment
Fiscal Year 2017-2018
Budget Amendment #6
WHEREAS, the City of Southport has a project to repair drainage on Bay Street
and Riverside Motel and Pilot’s Association have contributed to the cost of the
repair, and
WHEREAS, the City needs to be appropriate these contributions and the Powell
Bill funds rolled over from the prior year, and;
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2017-2018 needs to be amended to
reflect the use of these funds to repair Bay St and other street capital
improvements and expenditures, and;
WHEREAS the Funds are available in the General Fund and Powell Bill;
   NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport, North
   Carolina that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2017-2018 shall be
amended as follows:
Revenues:    Increase
Powell Bill 
20-20-3839-0000 Contributions            $ 10,000
20-20-3991-0000 Appropriated Fund Balance      $ 42,454
 
Expenditures                        Increase
Powell Bill Capital Expenditures
20-20-4510-5500                     $10,000
20-20-4510-5500                     $42,454
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, October 12, 2017
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
/s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
11.   Budget Amendment #7; Fire Department Insurance Reimbursement
   Finance Director Trexler explained that a reimbursement from insurance for
the repair to a Fire Department vehicle had been received and needed to be
appropriated for the repair expenditure.
   Alderman Pukenas motioned, second by Alderman Powell to approve Budget
Amendment #7, Fire Department Insurance Reimbursement.
   Unanimous vote; motion carried.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1856_855x840.jpg]
Budget Amendment
Fiscal Year 2017-2018
Budget Amendment #7
WHEREAS, the City of Southport has a reimbursement from insurance for the
repair to a Fire Department vehicle; and
WHEREAS, the City needs to appropriate these funds for the repair expenditures,
and;
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2017-2018 needs to be amended to
reflect the use of these funds to repair the vehicle;
WHEREAS the Funds are available in the General Fund;
   NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport, North
Carolina that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2017-2018 shall be
amended as follows:
Revenues:    Increase
General Fund
10-11-3434-0500 Fire Dept. Misc. Rev         $ 6,484
Expenditures                        Increase
Fire Department Repairs
10-11-4340-3501                     $6,484
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, October 12, 2017
                        /s/ J.V. Dove, Mayor
/s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
REPORTS FROM MANAGER
   City Manager Oakley pointed out the updated Project Report included in the
agenda packet along with a capital projects expenditure report.
   City Manager Oakley reported that he, the Mayor and the Building Inspector
had participated in a conference call regarding a No Wake Zone along the
waterfront. He stated that based on the call, Southport meets the criteria and
should get the No Wake Zone but it will take some time.
   City Manager Oakley reported that Southport had received the FEMA
reimbursement for the Waterfront hurricane repair project.
   Responding to a query by Alderman Powell, City Manager Oakley indicated that
he would contact the North Carolina Department of Transportation (NCDOT)
regarding receipt of a quote for the needed drainage work at The Landing
subdivision.
STAFF REPORTS
   Reports included in the agenda packet.
BOARD COMMENTS
   Noting that she and Alderman Mosteller were liaisons to the Planning Board,
Alderman Poole stated that the Planning Board would take into consideration the
comments made by Mr. Kerns, and concerns of Board members regarding The Haven
Subdivision.
   Alderman Powell spoke about other instances where an additional entrance/
exit had to be provided in a subdivision plan prior to approval by the Board.
He emphasized the need for a cul-de-sac to provide turn around space for
emergency vehicles.
   Noting the need for and the professionalism of, Aldermen Powell and Adams
thanked the City Manager for the Project Report included in the agenda.
   Board members thanked Rivermist for hosting the monthly meeting.
ADJOURN
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to adjourn the meeting.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
                         /s/ J.V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
NOVEMBER 9, 2017
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING NOVEMBER 9, 2017
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Karen Mosteller, Jim Powell,
            Todd Coring, Rick Pukenas
ABSENT:         Alderman Nelson Adams
STAFF PRESENT:      Bruce Oakley, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
   David Fox, Public Works Director
   Gary Smith, Police Chief
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   Randy Jones, Tourism Director
   Sharon Venis, Fort Johnston Coordinator
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Dove called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Coring welcomed everyone and gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Coring led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Public Comment
   Mr. Woody Wilson, 502 W. Brunswick Street, expressed appreciation to
election candidates for conducting their elections in a professional manner. He
stated that more good things can be accomplished when everyone works together
and looks for what is good for Southport.
   Mr. Robert Creech, 426 W. Brunswick Street, talked about the valuable access
to the water provided by the Yacht Basin City Pier. He commented that FEMA
funds had been received for damage incurred at the pier during Hurricane
Matthew in 2016. He stated his displeasure that no action had been taken to
expedite the repairs. He asserted that a fixed dock would provide a better
platform than the proposed floating dock.
E)   Approval of Agenda    
   Mayor Dove asked for the City Manager Report to be added to the agenda,
prior to Staff Reports.
   Alderman Poole asked for appointment to the Planning Board to be removed.
She indicated that interviews were on-going.
   Alderman Mosteller motioned, second by Alderman Coring to approve the agenda
as amended.  Unanimous vote; motion carried.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Dove stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
F)   Announcements
   Mayor Dove announced that the lighting of the Christmas tree would take
place on Friday, November 24, 5:00 p.m. in Franklin Square Park.
   Mayor Dove announced that Taps would be performed on Veterans Day (Saturday
November 11) at Waterfront Park, 5:00 p.m.
   Alderman Mosteller urged anyone looking for a volunteer opportunity to join
the Beautification Committee on Friday November 10 and Saturday, November 11 at
the Fire Substation, 111 E. Nash Street, to get the Christmas wreaths ready for
hanging.
   Alderman Pukenas announced that a Nutcracker Tea would be held in the
Community Building on Saturday, December 2, 1:00 p.m. as a fund raiser for the
Fort Johnston Memorial Brick Project.
   Alderman Poole announced that “Shaw Day” would be held Sunday, November 12,
11:00 a.m. at Friendship Baptist Church.
SPECIAL RECOGNITION:
   Alderman Poole read a Resolution in Support of the Friends of Southport
Feral Cats into the record and presented it to members of the group in
attendance. She further thanked the group for taking the initiative to do
something about an issue that has been plaguing Southport for many years.
CITY OF SOUTHPORT
RESOLUTION IN SUPPORT OF THE
FRIENDS OF SOUTHPORT FERAL CATS
WHEREAS, there are feral cats (aka, community cats) in the Southport area; and
WHEREAS, “feral” means that the cats are not socialized to people and generally
avoid contact with humans; and 
WHEREAS, the Friends of Southport Feral Cats is an advocacy organization
dedicated to protecting and caring for the Southport feral cats; and
WHEREAS, the Friends of Southport Feral Cats is staffed by volunteers and
funded by donations; and
WHEREAS, the Friends of Southport Feral Cats embrace the Trap/Neuter/Release
(TNR) program that stabilizes the feral cat population and curbs mating
behaviors; and
WHEREAS, the TNR program is being adopted in more and more communities,
including our neighbors in Oak Island.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the City of Southport Board of Aldermen
goes on record in support of the Friends of Southport Feral Cats.  
DULY RESOLVED THIS THE 9TH DAY OF NOVEMBER 2017.
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Powell to adopt the Resolution.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Mayor Dove stated the following in recognition of the Governor’s Volunteer
Service Award Recipient:
   “Our volunteers are often the first people visitors meet as they come into
town. It is their warm welcome, enthusiasm, extensive knowledge, and love for
Southport that each visitor takes with them as they explore all Southport has
to offer. I believe our Southport Ambassadors are a large part of the reason
that Southport has become such a popular tourist destination.
Dedication, commitment, enthusiasm, loyalty, passion, accountability,
sociability, approachability, and knowledge are just a few words that describe
the special skills and qualities the Fort Johnston-Southport Museum & Visitors’
Center volunteers possess.
Our numbers confirm our volunteer’s commitment to the City of Southport’s Fort
Johnston-Southport Museum & Visitors’ Center. We have a staff of approximately
50 active volunteers, each volunteering approximately one day a week, three
hours a day. That translates into 150 hours a year, per volunteer or
collectively 7,500 volunteer hours a year! We have several Southport
Ambassadors that have been doing this for 19+ years. That is commitment!
We are honored to present the Fort Johnston-Southport Museum and Visitors’
Center volunteers the Governor’s Award for Volunteer Service. If there are
volunteers present, please step forward to accept the award.”
   Mayor Dove presented the framed award to those members of the Fort Johnston-
Southport Museum and Visitors’ Center volunteers present in the audience.
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Powell to approve the consent
agenda.   Unanimous vote; motion carried.   
Minutes of October 12, 2017 Regular Meeting – approved
2.   Resolution in Support of Cape Fear Regional Bicycle Plan – approved
A RESOLUTION BY THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT ADOPTING THE CAPE FEAR REGIONAL BICYCLE
PLAN
   WHEREAS, The Cape Fear Council of Governments, along with representatives of
the City of Wilmington, and the Towns of Carolina Beach, Kure Beach,
Wrightsville Beach, Belville, Leland, Oak Island, Navassa, New Hanover County,
Brunswick County, Pender County, Cape Fear Public Transportation Authority, the
Wilmington Urban Area MPO, Cape Fear RPO, and the North Carolina Board of
Transportation worked cooperatively for over a year to create the Cape Fear
Regional Bicycle Plan; and
   WHEREAS, cities, towns, and regions around the country are increasingly
recognizing the benefits that bicycle-friendly communities offer in terms of
quality of life to residents and visitors; and
   WHEREAS, there were 487 reported bicycle crashes from 2007-2012 that have
resulted in 254 or more injuries and eight fatalities in the region; and
   WHEREAS, the Plan will improve the quality and safety of bicycling through
new and improved infrastructure, policies and programs, for all types of
bicyclists; and
   WHEREAS, the Plan will increase transportation choices by improving
connectivity of the bicycle network while increasing accessibility to transit
and key destinations through the region; and
   WHEREAS, BlueCross BlueShield North Carolina has stated that every $1
investment in trails for physical activity can save about $3 in medical
expenses; and
   WHEREAS, the Plan will improve health and wellness by increasing access to
bikeways, thereby offering more opportunities for recreation, active
transportation, and physical activity; and
   WHEREAS, a NCDOT study in the neighboring coastal region of the Outer Banks
has demonstrated the annual return on bicycle facility development is
approximately nine times higher than the initial investment; and
   WHEREAS, the Plan promotes bicycle-related tourism and economic development
for communities in Brunswick, Columbus, New Hanover, and Pender Counties as
well as southern Bladen, western Onslow, and southern Sampson Counties; and
   WHEREAS, this Plan included an open and participatory process, with over 500
online mapping and public survey comments, with outreach at dozens of public
events; and
   WHEREAS, 97% of survey respondents said they would bike more often if more
bicycle lanes, trails, and safe roadway crossings were provided for bicyclists;
and
   WHEREAS, it is envisioned that a more bicycle-friendly Cape Fear region
would offer multiple quality of life benefits to residents and visitors by
increasing public safety, supporting health and the environment, expanding
choices for mobility, and diversifying the strength of tourism in local
communities throughout the region; and
   WHEREAS, supporting this resolution does not replace any local plans nor
dedicate any funding, but rather indicates a willingness to support the Plan’s
recommended bicycle projects and programs.
   THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED:
   THAT, the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport hereby adopts the Cape
Fear Regional Bicycle Plan.
   This, the 9th day of November, 2017
                           /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
AGENDA
   3.   Consideration of Proposed Resolution Supporting Atlantic Coast Pipeline
for       NCEMPA Member Cities and Towns
   Alderman Powell explained that the North Carolina Eastern Municipal Power
Agency (NCEMPA) has requested the city pass a resolution in support of
construction of a proposed natural gas pipe from Pennsylvania, through West
Virginia, and ending in the Lumberton, NC area. He stated it is anticipated the
pipeline would recoup approximately $113 million annually, boost the economy
over the next 20 years, provide jobs and allow for additional manufacturing
facilities.
   Alderman Powell motioned to support the Atlantic Coast Pipeline.
   Motion died for lack of a second.
   4.   Consideration of Lighting on E. Bay Street  
   Public Works Director Fox explained that Alderman Adams and Police Chief
Smith shared their concerns about the lack of lighting along E. Bay Street from
S. Davis Street to the Community Building. Director Fox stated that Brunswick
Electric Membership Corp (BEMC) provided a cost to install a new transformer
and three (3) city owned fixtures along the Bay Street right-of-way in order to
improve safety and curb criminal behavior in the area. He added that there had
also been discussion about adding a fourth light which would increase the quote
by approximately $1,000.
   Alderman Mosteller expressed concerns about the kelvin rating of the lights
and stated her opinion that the new lights at the Yacht Basin are a higher
kelvin rating than what is called for in the Street Lighting Policy and what
should be installed along Bay Street
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to install the
lighting. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   5.   Appointment to Planning Board 
   Item pulled from the Agenda.
REPORTS FROM MANAGER
   City Manager Oakley reported that $1,800 is being saved each month on the
new phone service since installation of a fiber network at all city facilities.
   City Manager Oakley reported that change orders were issued for paving,
additional pipe, and a clean out for the W. Bay Street drainage project.
   City Manager Oakley stated that the North Carolina Department of
Transportation (NCDOT) has advised him that a study for placement of a new stop
light on N. Howe Street will be completed by the end of December.
   City Manager Oakley stated that the new playground equipment for Caviness
Park has been received and will be professionally installed in the near future.
   City Manager Oakley reported that sign up for City notifications is now
available on the city’s web page.
STAFF REPORTS   
   Police Chief Smith stressed the importance of being vigilant during the
holiday season.
   Tourism Director Jones reminded everyone of the upcoming Winterfest
activities.
BOARD COMMENTS
   Mayor Dove stated that there would be a free community Thanksgiving dinner
in Franklin Square Park on November 18.
   Thanking Mr. Creech for voicing his concerns, Alderman Coring stated he
would like to see forward movement on the Yacht Basin Boat Dock.
   Board members wished everyone a Happy Thanksgiving.
ADJOURN
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to adjourn the
meeting. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
NOVEMBER 29, 2017
SPECIAL SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN   SPECIAL SESSION MINUTES
FIRE HEADQUARTERS   NOVEMBER 29, 2017
1011 N. HOWE STREET SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Karen Mosteller, Rick Pukenas,
            Todd Coring, Jim Powell, Nelson Adams
STAFF PRESENT:      Bruce Oakley, City Manager
         Michele Windham, City Clerk
         Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
A)   Call to Order – 5:30 p.m.
   Mayor Dove called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m. He stated that the
meeting was called for the purpose of discussion of Animal Control Policies.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Powell welcomed everyone and Mayor Dove gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Powell led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Public Comment
There was no public comment.
E)   Approval of Agenda
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Powell to approve the agenda.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
F)   Announcements
   Mayor Dove announced that due to an illness, Judge Ola Lewis would be unable
to perform the swearing in of new Board members at the December 14 meeting.
Mayor Dove stated that Judge Fairley will do the swearing in.
   Mayor Dove announced that Earnest Wearren, a 22 year member of the Southport
Fire Department had passed unexpectedly. Mayor Dove stated that services would
be held Thursday, November 30 at First Baptist Church.
   Mayor Dove announced that former County Commissioner May Moore had passed.
   Mayor Dove announced that the annual Fire Department Awards Banquet would be
held Saturday, December 2, 6:00 p.m. at the Brunswick Senior Resource Center,
1513 N. Howe Street.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Dove stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
AGENDA
Discussion of Animal Control Policies
   Alderman Coring stated he had requested the Special Meeting as a fact-
finding mission so the Board could hear and discuss any problems with animal
control practices and procedures within the Police Department. He reported that
he had staff research Board minutes and no reference was found to any past or
current problems. He stated he was shocked by a newspaper article concerning
the recent handling of animals. He added that he had received calls from
citizens and did not know how to address their concerns as he had not been made
aware of the specific incident.
   Alderman Mosteller concurred with Alderman Coring that she was not aware of
recent events. She stated her opinion that the current animal control
procedures are not working and she recommended a thorough review and possible
adjustments to the policies and procedures.
   Alderman Powell stated his understanding that when the animal control/code
enforcement responsibilities were moved under the Police Department
supervision, the position would be an 8:00 – 5:00, 5 days a week job with sole
responsibility to animal control/code enforcement and not running radar and
issuing tickets. He agreed with Alderman Mosteller that changes need to be
made.
   Alderman Adams stated that he has been of the opinion for many years that a
sworn Police Officer assigned as an Animal Control Officer is a misuse of
resources. He contended that the Police Department was delegated responsibility
for animal control in order to get another position in the department. He added
that an Animal Control Officer should be hired on a part-time/on call basis,
and properly trained.
   Alderman Poole expressed appreciation to Alderman Coring for calling the
meeting. She stated she was also unaware of any issues. She recalled an
Emergency Services Committee meeting when there was discussion and a request
made for an estimate to have Brunswick County take over the animal control
function. She added that the Board had authorized the position and budget be
reassigned to the Police Department.
   Alderman Pukenas thanked Alderman Coring for bringing the issue to the
Board’s attention. He stated his opinion that the code, policies and
enforcement needed to be revamped.
   Mayor Dove recalled a time when the Animal Control/Code Enforcement Officer
had been trained and the city provided a holding shelter. He suggested the City
Manager meet with the County to get an estimate for the service and to allocate
training funds for two officers.
   City Manager Oakley indicated had been in contact with the County Manager
and per her suggestion, he was making arrangements to meet with the County
Sheriff. He added that he would find funding for training of two officers and
will compile an operating manual for Animal Control.
   Alderman Adams cautioned going with the County for the services, stating his
viewpoint that the City would lose control. He suggested hiring young retirees
on a part-time basis.
   Alderman Coring questioned where the information had been obtained for the
newspaper article and he questioned if someone had spoken to the press. Chief
Smith stated he had not given any interviews.
Other Administrative Business
   Board consensus to consider employee Christmas bonuses at the December
regular meeting.
   Alderman Powell raised concerns brought to him by citizens of Police
vehicles sighted in the vicinity of Lowe’s Home Improvement, on Long Beach Road
Extension, and NC 87. Mayor Dove pointed out that the city limits reach
Rivermist Subdivision and commercial areas at Dutchman Village and Walgreens
beyond the Duke Energy Progress canal.
Closed Session – 5:56 p.m.
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Powell to go into Closed Session
Pursuant to N.C.G.S. 143-318.11(a) (6) for consideration of a personnel matter.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Out of Closed Session – 6:33 p.m.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to come out of Closed
Session. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Mayor Dove announced that the Board discussed the performance of several
employees but no action was taken.
ADJOURN
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Adams to adjourn the meeting.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
DECEMBER 14, 2017
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING JANUARY 12, 2017
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Mary Ellen Poole, Karen Mosteller, Jim Powell,
            Todd Coring, Rick Pukenas, Nelson Adams
STAFF PRESENT:      Bruce Oakley, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
   Gary Smith, Police Chief
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
   Randy Jones, Tourism Director
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   Thomas Lloyd, Planner
   Teresa Parker-Mosley, HR Technician
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Dove called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Powell welcomed everyone and Mayor Dove gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Powell led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Public Comment
   Mr. John Losch, 310 N. Fodale Avenue, spoke about the old Yacht Basin boat
dock and the monies received from FEMA for repairs of damages incurred from
Hurricane Matthew. He suggested involving Southport Marina and raising rental
rates to facilitate the repairs. He stated his dismay that dredging and repairs
would not come to fruition until October 2018. He also spoke about the city’s
animal control policy.
   Ms. Francesca Slaughter, 6243 Cottage Creek Road, board member for Rescue
Animals Community Effort (R.A.C.E.) spoke to the Board about an issue raised in
a recent State Port Pilot editorial alleging cruel treatment of stray, injured
and lost animals picked up by members of the Southport Police Department. Ms.
Slaughter spoke of her efforts to get answers regarding the truth of the
allegations and her ultimate review of requested police reports. She talked
about the results of her inquiry, pointed out that Southport is an animal-
friendly town, and her opinion that the city’s animal control program is flawed
and being carried out by untrained individuals. Ms. Slaughter implored the
Board to allow Brunswick County Sheriff’s Office Animal Protection Services to
take over the city’s operation. By a show of hands, most of those in attendance
agreed with Ms. Slaughter.
   Mr. Buddy Barnes, 425 W. West Street, expressed pride and appreciation to
have served as an Alderman alongside Aldermen Poole and Adams. He thanked the
outgoing Aldermen for their service.
   Ms. Jill Denmon, 610 Caswell Avenue, Secretary of Friends of the Southport
Feral Cats, spoke. She pointed out that the city’s animal regulations are
“unclear as to the well-being of a feral or a stray” cat. She noted that
Southport does not have a holding facility or shelter so officers have to
transport an animal to the Brunswick County Animal Shelter which requires more
time than an officer can spend. Ms. Denmon suggested a partnership between the
County and City along with having a veterinarian who could treat and board
injured or sick animals until they could be taken to the shelter.
   Mr. Jason Robbins, 506 W. Brunswick, expressed his dismay upon hearing the
allegations of cruelty to animals. He urged the Board to stop any cruelty and
to pursue public help if fundraising is needed.
   Rev. J. Lowe Davis, 504 W. Brunswick Street, spoke on the animal control
issue and referenced scripture.
   Mr. Peter MacQueen III, Willow Moss Way, spoke about his previous
involvement with a committee designated to revise the Animal Control Ordinance.
He noted that the revisions were never adopted and suggested revisiting the
work.
   Mr. Frank Kelly, 4002-1 Norseman Loop, talked about the one-way traffic
designation of Norseman Loop. Speaking for many Norseman Loop homeowners, Mr.
Kelly asked for the street to be returned to two-way traffic flow.
E)   Approval of Agenda
   Alderman Coring asked that Item 9, Appointment(s) to Planning Board and Item
10, Appointment(s) to Board of Adjustment be moved to New Business.
   Alderman Mosteller asked that Item 8, Volunteer Firefighters Supplemental
Retirement Plan, be moved for consideration to the annual Board Retreat,
tentatively scheduled for 1/27
    Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Powell to approve the agenda
as amended. 
   Alderman Adams asked for Item 7, City Manager 90 Day Review, to be moved to
the Board Retreat.
   Alderman Coring amended his motion, second by Alderman Powell to include the
request by Alderman Adams and approve the agenda as amended. Unanimous vote;
motion carried.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Dove stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
F)   Announcements
   Alderman Powell announced that he had attended the first meeting of the Bald
Head Island Transportation Authority. He stated that future meetings would be
held at 9:00 a.m. on the 3rd Wednesday of each month. He asked if the Authority
could use the Community Building for those meetings. Responding to a query from
Alderman Adams, Alderman Powell estimated 15 Board attendees at the meetings
that are open to the public. Board consensus that the Authority can use the
Community Building as long as the meetings do not interrupt any function at the
facility. City Clerk to coordinate the logistics with Parks & Recreation
Director Hemphill and Community Building Coordinator Potter.
   Alderman Mosteller recognized the Public Works Department, Fire Department
and the Beautification Committee for the beautiful holiday decorations
throughout the city.
   Alderman Mosteller announced that the Beautification Committee would meet on
January 6, 10:00 a.m. at the jail annex to pack away decorations and to plant
bulbs. She encouraged the public to join the effort.
G)   Special Recognition
   Alderman Poole motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to adopt a Resolution
Honoring the 102nd Birthday of Robert C. Ruark, Jr. Unanimous vote; motion
carried.
   Alderman Pukenas read the resolution into the record
A RESOLUTION HONORING THE 102nd BIRTHDAY
OF ROBERT C. RUARK, JR.
WHEREAS, Robert C. Ruark,, Jr. was born in Wilmington on December 29, 1915; and
WHEREAS, Ruark achieved international success as a newspaper and magazine
columnist and author; and
WHEREAS, Ruark spent a great deal of his childhood visiting his maternal
grandparents, Capt. Ned and Lottie Adkins at their home in Southport; and
WHEREAS, Among Ruark’s works were the beloved book, The Old Man and the Boy; a
semi-autographical work defined by the philosophical musings of his
grandfather; and
WHEREAS, Ruark’s success brought much attention to Southport which continues to
this day.
BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the City of Southport hereby designates December 29, 2017 as
“Robert C. Ruark, Jr.” day in his honor.
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, December 14,
2017.
                     /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to adopt resolutions
honoring Aldermen Nelson Adams and Mary Ellen Poole. Unanimous vote; motion
carried.
   Mayor Dove read the resolution honoring Alderman Poole into the record and
presented her with the Resolution and a keepsake clock.
Resolution
In Honor of Alderman
Mary Ellen Poole
WHEREAS, Mary Ellen Poole was sworn in as a member of the Southport Board of
Aldermen to represent the citizens of Southport December 10, 2009; and
WHEREAS, she has served the citizens of Southport dutifully and faithfully as a
member of the Southport Board of Aldermen for 8 years; and
WHEREAS, she previously served on the Planning Board as its chairman; and
WHEREAS, Mary Ellen has spent countless hours attending meetings and working on
the City’s Unified Development Ordinance and other codes; and
WHEREAS, her dedication to the Planning Board, Board of Aldermen, staff and
citizens of Southport has earned her much respect; and
WHEREAS, her exemplary conduct and sense of fairness has been demonstrated for
the good of the City; and
WHEREAS, presentation of this resolution represents an opportunity for the
Mayor and Board of Aldermen to thank Mary Ellen and to show appreciation for
the unselfish manner in which she has served the citizens of Southport.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that I. J. V. Dove, and Board of Aldermen
recognize Mary Ellen Poole for 16 years of dedicated and distinguished service
to the City
                                             /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
   /s/ James F. Powell III, Alderman         /s/ Nelson E. Adams, Alderman
   /s/ Karen Mosteller, Alderman         /s/ Rick Pukenas, Alderman
   /s/ Todd Coring, Mayor Pro Tem
   Alderman Poole stated it was her honor and a privilege to serve the citizens
of Southport as an Alderman and on the Planning Board. She said she enjoyed
working with past and present members of the Board of Aldermen, city managers,
attorney, committees, dedicated staff and employees. She thanked the new Board
members for their willingness to serve and wished them the best.
   Alderman Coring read the resolution honoring Alderman Adams into the record
and presented him with the Resolution and a keepsake clock.
Resolution
In Honor of Alderman
Nelson E. Adams
WHEREAS, Nelson E. Adams was sworn in as a member of the Southport Board of
Aldermen to represent the citizens of Southport December 8, 1977; and
WHEREAS, after a two year lapse, he was again sworn in as a member of the
Southport Board of Aldermen December 8, 1983; and
WHEREAS, Nelson has been a champion and spokesperson for the ordinary citizen;
and
WHEREAS, he has dedicated his life to fairness and equality; and
WHEREAS, during his tenure on the Board of Aldermen he has furthered the cause
of better community relations, better government and has been an influence in
the growth and progress of our community; and
WHEREAS, his dedication to the Board of Aldermen, staff and citizens of
Southport has earned him much respect; and
WHEREAS, presentation of this resolution represents an opportunity for the
Mayor and Board of Aldermen to thank Nelson Adams and extend profound and
abiding appreciation for his distinguished and outstanding contributions as a
community leader.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that I. J. V. Dove, and Board of Aldermen
recognize Nelson Adams for 38 years of dedicated and distinguished service to
the City and wish him success in all future endeavors.
                                             /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
   /s/ James F. Powell III, Alderman         /s/Mary Ellen Poole, Alderman   
   /s/ Karen Mosteller, Alderman         /s/ Rick Pukenas, Alderman
   /s/ Todd Coring, Mayor Pro Tem
   Alderman Adams stated he had enjoyed his years of service to the citizens of
Southport and he wished old and new Board members the best. He encouraged the
Board to be prudent, move the city forward, continue progress and leave no one
behind.
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to approve the consent
agenda.   Unanimous vote; motion carried.   
   Minutes for November 9 Regular Meeting & November 29 Special Session –
approved
2.   Correction; Acceptance of Water & Sewer ONLY Infrastructure for Cades Cove
   Subdivision –    approved
3.   Adopt Fourth Edition, 2017 Suggested Rules of Procedure for a City
Council– approved
AGENDA- Old Business  
   4.   Preliminary Plat Approval; The Haven Subdivision
   City Planner Lloyd explained that Islanda Investment Group LLC had submitted
a preliminary plat for approval of The Haven subdivision. He noted that the
proposed subdivision would be the first subdivision built using the Small Lot
Cluster Development standards that were added to the Unified Development
Ordinance (UDO) in January 2016. Mr. Lloyd stated that the Planning Board had
reviewed the preliminary plat, had found the plan consistent with the Southport
CAMA Core Land Use Plan, meets the requirements of the UDO and they recommended
that the Board of Aldermen approve the preliminary plat.
   Alderman Powell expressed concerns about the street end being a cul-de-sac
and the size of the storm water easement.   
   Noting that the project engineer could not attend the Board meeting,
Alderman Mosteller motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to move consideration
of approval of The Haven preliminary plat to the January meeting so the
engineer could attend. Unanimous vote; motion carried.   
   5.   Fort Johnston Playground Equipment
   Parks and Recreation Director Hemphill stated that the current playground
equipment at Fort  Johnston had been in place at least for the 19+ years that
she has been an employee. She said that the equipment has corroded and needs to
be replaced. She indicated that funding for the project is available in the
cancelled “greenway” project and within the Parks & Recreation operating
budget.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to approve purchase and
installation of playground equipment at Fort Johnston from Superior Recreation
of the Carolinas in the amount of $26,374 including equipment, mulch, freight,
tax and installation. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   6.   Employee Christmas Bonus
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to award full-time
employees a $300 Christmas bonus and part-time employees a $200 Christmas
bonus. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   7.   City Manager 90 Day Review
   The City Manager 90 day review was tabled until the annual Board retreat
scheduled for Saturday, January 27. 
   8.   Volunteer Firefighters Supplemental Retirement Plan
   Review of the Volunteer Firefighters Supplemental Retirement Plan was tabled
until the
Board Retreat.
   9.   Appointment(s) to Planning Board
   Consideration of Appointments to the Planning Board moved to New Business.
   10.   Appointment(s) to Board of Adjustment
   Consideration of Appointment to the Board of Adjustment moved to New
Business.
OATH OF OFFICE CEREMONY
The Honorable William F. Fairley
District Court Judge
13th Judicial District
   Judge William F. Fairley administered the oath of office to Mayor J. V.
Dove. (A copy of this oath is hereby incorporated in the minutes of this
meeting.) (ATTACHMENT #1)
   Judge William F. Fairley administered the oath of office to Aldermen Karen
Mosteller, Lora Sharkey and Marc Spencer. (A copy of these oaths is hereby
incorporated in the minutes of this meeting.) (ATTACHMENTS #2, #3 and #4)
Organizational Meeting
   a.   Election of Mayor Pro-Tempore
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to appoint Alderman
Coring as Mayor Pro-Tempore. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   b.   Swearing in of Mayor Pro-Tempore
   Judge William F. Fairley administered the oath of office of Mayor Pro-
Tempore to Alderman Todd Coring. (A copy of this oath is hereby incorporated in
the minutes of this meeting.) (ATTACHMENT #5)
CLICK_HERE_TO_VIEW_OATHS_IN_PDF_DOCUMENT
AGENDA – New Business
    11.   Budget Amendment #8; Donations
   City Manager Oakley explained the request for a budget amendment to allow
contributions to the Forestry Committee. Alderman Powell motioned, second by
Alderman Coring to adopt FY 2017-2018 Budget Amendment #8. Unanimous vote;
motion carried.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1893_855x840.jpg]
Budget Amendment
Fiscal Year 2017-2018
Budget Amendment #8
WHEREAS, the City of Southport has Received Donations for the use of the
Forestry committee and for Utility bills assistance;
WHEREAS, the City needs to appropriate for these funds to put used as the
Donors have indicated; and
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2017-2018 needs to be amended to
reflect the use of these funds by the Forestry Committee and for Utility Bill
Assistance;
WHEREAS the Funds are available in the General Fund;
   NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport, North
Carolina that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2017-2018 shall be
amended as follows:
Revenues:    Increase
General Fund
10-00-3833-0000 Forestry Donations         $ 2,000
10-00-3833-0005 Misc Donations             $ 1,200
 
Expenditures                     Increase
10-03-4190-2402 ( Beautification & Forestry)      $ 2,000
10-00-4140-3900 (Other Services)            $ 1,200   
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, December 14,
2017   
                        /s/ Jerry Dove, Mayor         
/s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk   
   12.   Public Hearing; Zoning Map Amendment, Parcel ID 221MA00109, corner of
N.       Caswell Avenue and W. 14 th Street from Business District (BD) to
Multi-Family       (MF) (RZ 17-0808-01)
   City Planner Lloyd explained that the requested zoning of multi-family (MF)
would fit as a buffer between single family residential and business district.
He noted that the Planning Board found the zoning request consistent with the
CAMA Core Future Land Use Map, there is a need for multifamily zoning, and they
recommended approval of the zoning map amendment.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to go into Public
Hearing. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Mr. Brian Stevens, 503 Cades Trail, expressed concerns about storm water
runoff for any potential development of the parcel which could exacerbate
flooding issues already existing in the neighboring Cades Cove Subdivision.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to go out of Public
Hearing. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   13.   Consideration of Zoning Map Amendment RZ 17-0808-01
   Alderman Sharkey motioned, second by Alderman Powell to adopt the Ordinance
approving the Zoning Map Amendment RZ 17-0808-01.  Unanimous vote; motion
carried.
   14.   Appointment(s) to Planning Board
   Alderman Powell nominated Messrs. Richard Bandera and Robert Tucker to the
Planning Board, Bandera from an alternate position to a full seat and Tucker to
the seat vacated by Ms. Sharkey.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to close nominations.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to appoint Mr. Bandera
and Mr. Tucker to seats on the Planning Board. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   15.   Appointment(s) to Zoning Board of Adjustment
   Alderman Mosteller motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to reappoint Ms.
Lisa Fosbury to the Board of Adjustment. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
REPORTS FROM MANAGER
   City Manager Oakley reported that he was in talks with Sheriff John Ingram
about animal control. He added that a full-time contracted animal control
officer was being considered and Police Department personnel have been
registered for training. He assured the Board that any animals taken into
custody would be transported to the Brunswick County Animal Shelter.
   City Manager Oakley reported that the reroofing of the former City Hall, 201
E. Moore Street, was completed and had passed inspection.
   City Manager Oakley reported that a meeting with North Carolina Department
of Transportation had been held regarding a flooding issue in The Landing
subdivision. He indicated that another meeting would be held in January.
   City Manager Oakley reported that a meeting was held with North Carolina
Department of Transportation (NCDOT) regarding the State assisting with the
cost of dredging the Yacht Basin. He stated that dredging or construction of a
replacement pier is not expected until October 2018.
STAFF REPORTS
   Reports included in the agenda packet. 
BOARD COMMENTS
   Mayor Dove announced that a retirement luncheon had been held in honor of
Mary Strickland, North Carolina Maritime Museum at Southport Director, who is
retiring from her position.
   Mayor Dove announced that the “Shop with a Cop” Christmas program had raised
over $6,000.
   Alderman Coring asked that the city move “expeditiously” to correct issues
with animal control.
   Alderman Powell noted that the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers held a dredging
permit for approximately 90% of the Yacht Basin.
   Alderman Poole thanked P & R Director Hemphill for bringing to fruition the
much needed playground equipment upgrade at Fort Johnston.
   Alderman Adams thanked Parks & Recreation Director Hemphill for the new
equipment at Caviness Park.
   All Board members wished everyone a happy holiday season.
ADJOURN
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to adjourn the meeting.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.   
                        /s/ J.V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
2018
JANUARY 11, 2018
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING JANUARY 11, 2018
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Karen Mosteller, Lora Sharkey, Jim Powell, Todd Coring,
Marc Spencer
ABSENT:         Alderman Rick Pukenas
STAFF PRESENT:      Bruce Oakley, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
   David Fox, Public Works Director
   Gary Smith, Police Chief
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
   Randy Jones, Tourism Director
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   Thomas Lloyd, Planner
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Dove called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Spencer welcomed everyone and Mayor Dove gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Spencer led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Public Comment
   Rev. J. Lowe Davis, 504 W. Brunswick Street, spoke about an incident with a
dog chained outside with inadequate shelter during the recent freezing weather.
She stated that the owner would not permit the dog to go inside and the Police
Department’s hands were tied. She asked the Board to consider appointing an
animal welfare committee.
   Mr. Jason Robbins, 506 W. Brunswick Street, stated he had hoped a continued
discussion about animal control/welfare would be on the meeting agenda. He
asked for an update on the issue and suggested making a discussion about animal
control/welfare a permanent agenda item.
   Ms. Bonnie Thomas, representing the Southport Womens’ Club, announced that
the annual student art show would be held Tuesday, February 6, 4:00 – 7:00 p.m.
in the Community Building. She stated that admission is free and the show is
open to the public.   
   Mr. Frank Kelly, 4002-1 Norseman Loop, repeated his request from the
December meeting to have Norseman Loop returned to two-way traffic flow. He
indicated that he had a petition from homeowners in favor of the request. City
Manager Oakley advised Mr. Kelly to submit a written proposal that can be
placed on a future agenda.
E)   Approval of Agenda
   Mayor Dove asked to amend the agenda as follows:
Add Item #4:   Budget Amendment #9
Add Item #5:   Preliminary Plat Approval; The Haven Subdivision
Add Item #6:   Advertise for Lease Consideration of Franklin Square Art Gallery
Add Item #7:   City Manager 90 Day Review   
    Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Sharkey to approve the agenda
as amended. Unanimous vote; motion carried. 
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Dove stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
F)   Announcements
   Mayor Dove appointed an Animal Control Committee to be comprised of Aldermen
Mosteller and Sharkey, City Manager, Police Chief Smith, City Planner Lloyd,
Rev. Lowe Davis and Mr. Jason Robbins.
   Noting that there were vacancies on committees due to Alderman Poole’s
absence, Mayor Dove made the following liaison appointments:
   Rate Committee:      Aldermen Mosteller and Sharkey
   Emergency Planning:       Alderman Coring as chair of committee; himself as
an alternate
   Planning Board:         Aldermen Coring    
   Mayor Dove announced that the annual Martin Luther King Jr. celebration
would be observed with a march at 2:00p.m. Sunday, January 14, a program at 3:
00p.m. at Fire Headquarters and a breakfast on Monday, January 15 at Trinity
Methodist Church.
   Alderman Mosteller reported that Phase One of the pollinator garden is
completed at the Forestry Committee nursery and a Live Oak tree is also being
incorporated.
   Alderman Mosteller announced that the Beautification Committee Our Town
Clean Up would be Saturday, February 3, beginning at 9:00a.m.
   Alderman Mosteller announced that the second annual Southport Day of Service
would be held in March. She noted that participants last year numbered over 90.
   Mayor Dove talked about the effort to upgrade US Route 74 from Wilmington to
Charlotte into an interstate highway and the potential economic boon it could
bring to the area. He suggested consideration of a resolution in support of the
effort at the Board’s next meeting.
   Alderman Sharkey spoke about the change in prohibitions to off shore
drilling along the East Coast. She pointed out that the City of Southport had
previously opposed offshore drilling with adoption of a resolution. She asked
for permission to update the adopted Resolution to reflect current language and
the Governor’s position.
   Board consensus for Alderman Sharkey to update the resolution in opposition
to offshore drilling and bring it to the Board for consideration.   
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to approve the consent
agenda.   Unanimous vote; motion carried.   
Approval of Minutes for December 14, 2017 Regular Meeting – approved
AGENDA  
   2.   Consideration of Proposal & Contract for Yacht Basin Road Repairs
   City Manager Oakley reported that he and the city attorney had reviewed the
proposal from Southern Asphalt for street paving where drainage work had been
performed on Bay Street between the Frying Pan Restaurant and Lord Street. He
indicated that a line item transfer of $200 would be necessary to encumber the
total fee.
   City Attorney Isenberg noted that he made minor language revisions to the
contract proposed by Southern Asphalt.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to approve the contract
with Southern Asphalt, Inc. for the Yacht Basin Road Repair, subject to review
and approval by the city manager and attorney. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   3.   Appointment of Planning Board
   Alderman Mosteller motioned, second by Alderman Sharkey to send a
recommendation to the Brunswick County Commissioners for consideration of
appointing Mr. Brett McKeithan to the Southport Planning Board as an
Extraterritorial Jurisdiction (ETJ) Alternate member.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   4.   Budget Amendment # 9
   Finance Director Trexler stated that additional Powell Bill money had been
received from the State and needed to be appropriated in the FY 2017-2018
budget.
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Powell to adopt Budget
Amendment #9.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1901_855x840.jpg]
 
Budget Amendment
Fiscal Year 2017-2018
Budget Amendment #9
WHEREAS, the City of Southport has Received additional Powell Bill funds
greater than budgeted;
WHEREAS, the City needs to appropriate for these funds to put used in the
Powell Bill Fund for Streets Expenditures; and
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2017-2018 needs to be amended to
reflect the use of these funds;
WHEREAS the Funds are available in the Powell bill;
   NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport, North
Carolina that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2017-2018 shall be
amended as follows:
Revenues:    Increase       
Powell Bill
20-20-3316-0000 Powell Bill Revenue         $ 3,783
Expenditures               Increase
20-20-4510-2600 Supplies               $3,783
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, January 11,
2018   
                        /s/ Jerry Dove, Mayor
/s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
   5.   Preliminary Plat Approval; The Haven subdivision
   Guiding the Board to the provided revised design of The Haven subdivision,
City Planner Lloyd stated that the developer and project engineer had been
receptive to the feedback given by the Board during its December regular
meeting and that the new design addressed the concerns raised.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to approve the revised
design of and the Preliminary Plat of The Haven subdivision. Unanimous vote;
motion carried.     
   6.   Advertise for Lease Consideration of Franklin Square Art Gallery
   City Attorney Isenberg stated that consideration of a lease for Franklin
Square Art Gallery must be advertised 30 days prior to a regular meeting.
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Powell to authorize the Clerk
to advertise for consideration of authorizing the lease of the Franklin Square
Art Gallery to Associated Artists of Southport.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   7.   City Manager 90 Day Review
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to give the city manager
a 5% pay increase effective immediately.
REPORTS FROM MANAGER
   City Manager Oakley pointed out that the Project Report Update was included
in the agenda packet. He added Lighting at Bay Street to the report and stated
that concerns had been raised about obstructing the view with installation of
lights along Bay Street at Fort Johnston that was previously approved by the
Board. He noted that a number of lights had been repaired in the area, had made
a significant difference and may diminish the need for the 30 ft. light poles.
He indicated that the lighting would be further examined.
   Mayor Dove and Alderman Spencer pointed out locations where street lights
are out; Howe Street near Easy Way Carry Out and on Cape Harbor Drive.
STAFF REPORTS
   Reports included in the agenda packet. 
BOARD COMMENTS
   Noting the harsh conditions during a recent winter storm, Alderman Spencer
lauded the Public Works and Police and Fire Departments for their job
performance.
   Alderman Sharkey echoed Alderman Spencer’s comments and pointed out that the
Payroll & Benefits Specialist reported to work in order to process payroll in
spite of the offices being closed.
   Alderman Coring asked staff to pursue a price quotation for an upgraded
sound system in the Community Building.
   Alderman Powell announced that the annual Board Retreat is scheduled for
February 3 rd & 10 th , 9:00 a.m., Fire Headquarters Emergency Operations
Center.
ADJOURN  
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to adjourn the meeting.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
                        /s/ J.V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
FEBRUARY 3, 2018
RETREAT MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN   RETREAT MINUTES
FIRE HEADQUARTERS   FEBRUARY 3, 2018
1011 N. HOWE STREET SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor J.V. Dove
         Aldermen Todd Coring, Karen Mosteller, Lora Sharkey,
         Jim Powell, Rick Pukenas
STAFF PRESENT:   Bruce Oakley, City Manager
         Michele Windham, City Clerk
         Charles Drew, Fire Chief
         Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
         Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
Call to Order - 9:00 a.m.
   Mayor Dove called the meeting to order.
Invocation
   Fire Chief Drew gave the invocation.
Introduction of Chris May
   Chris May, Executive Director, Cape Fear Council of Governments gave a brief
synopsis of his background and experience.
Process and Ground Rules
   Mr. May explained his approach to guiding the Board through exercises that
will pinpoint their five (5) priority projects to pursue. He pointed out that
Board members are representatives and stewards for the people.
Expectation of Roles Exercise
   Mr. May guided the Board through an exercise which highlighted the desired
attributes of a Mayor, an Alderman and City Manager.
Mayor Attributes
   Knowledge of City and Municipal Government      Connected to People
   Accessible                  Team Leader
   Communicator (both ways)            Understanding
   Responsive & Transparent            Delegation      
   Brings all viewpoints to the table for discussion
   Spokesperson for the City
Alderman Attributes
    Patience         Good Listener      Responsive
   Work for Common Good   Open-Minded      Strive to Understand Issues
   Negotiator – Compromise            Honesty & Integrity
   Ability to Communicate Vision
   Working Knowledge of City Regulations, Policies, etc.   
City Manager Attributes
   Educated in Municipal Government         Team Leader & Motivator (Coach)
   Supportive – Helpful – Advocate            Organized – Organizational Skills
   Good Communicator – Listener            Resourceful
   Honesty & Integrity               Visionary
   Being Able to Bring People to the Table         Accessible & Visable
Prioritization of Issues Exercise
   Mr. May guided the Board through an exercise creating a bucket list of
issues and projects for consideration. He then guided them through a voting
process for prioritizing the items.
Bucket List
   Animal Control Position & Standard Operating Procedures & Implementation
   Waterfront Stabilization               UDO Review/Update   
   1029 N. Howe Street Building            Yacht Basin/City Dock
   201 E. Moore Street Building            Seek Outside Funding
   Underground Electric               Taylor Field Project
   Keep Tax Rates Low with Sound Business Practices   Grow Fund Balance
   Surplus Property Disposal
   Buildings/Facilities Review to Determine Best Use
   Employee Merit Evaluation/Job Description Update
   Transportation: Vehicle-Bike-Pedestrian, Connect Sidewalks
   Emergency Preparedness Role Awareness
   Preserving Character of Southport as “Family”
   Public Information Officer
   Short Term Rental Policy
   The Board discussed the listing and grouped together the following for
further consideration at a separate workshop:
Buildings
      1029 N. Howe Street Building
      201 E. Moore Street Building
      Surplus Property Disposal
      Buildings/Facilities Review to Determine Best Use
   The Board voted for their top five (5) priorities and members volunteered to
champion specific items and to provide monthly updates at Board meetings.
TOP 5 PRIORITIES
Yacht Basin/City Dock – (Vote 7) – Mayor & Aldermen Powell & Sharkey
Waterfront Stabilization – (Vote 6) - Mayor & Alderman Powell
UDO Review/Update – (Vote 5) - Aldermen Coring & Mosteller
Buildings (Vote 5) – Aldermen Coring, Spencer, Sharkey
Animal Control – (Vote 4) - Aldermen Mosteller & Sharkey
   The City Manager and staff were charged with supporting the work.
   It was noted that an Employee Classification and Pay Study had been adopted
and implemented. The Manager was tasked with evaluation of the Personnel
Policy.
   It was noted that the Tourism Director acts as the Public Information
Officer.
   It was noted that there is funding in the FY 2017-2018 budget for
underground electric.
Discussion of Other Issues/Reports
   Fire Chief Drew presented a comprehensive report of the Fire Department.
(Complete report on file in the City Clerk’s office.)
Fire Department Administration
Fire Department Membership; Firefighters & EMS Members
2017 Overview:      Training & Continuing Education
               Membership
               Summary of Calls Answered
               Fire Apparatus Inventory
Current Status:      Staffing of Headquarters
            Fire District Information
            Fire Department Funding
2018 Goals/Projects
Long Range Planning Goals
   Fire Chief Drew provided the following update on the Brunswick County Fire
Commission:
   The Brunswick County Fire Commission is comprised of 19 members that were
appointed by the Brunswick County Board of Commissioners. I am currently the
Southport appointee, until July 2019. At that time the Mayor or Mayor Pro Tem
will take my spot on the Board. Currently, the Board is meeting every other
month, unless a special meeting is called. The Organizational meeting was held
in the month of October 2017. At that meeting a Chairman & Co Chair was elected
by the members of the commission.
   This group is an advisory board. Its mission is to make advisory
recommendations to the Brunswick County Board of Commissioner on fire
protection and emergency services. They can recommend funding mechanisms
including fees and or tax rates, and develop and provide overview of all
service operations regulations and guidelines for all Brunswick County Fire
Protection services.
   At the last 2 meetings, the main discussion has been performance standards
for fire departments. The commission set a sub-committee that has drafted a set
of performance standards on how fire departments are to respond and train
members. The draft was presented at last month’s meeting, and has not been
presented to the County Fire Chief’s for review. A special meeting will be held
this month to discuss the standards, making revisions or changes, vote on them
and send them to the Commissioners for approval. It has been alluded to in the
meeting, that fire departments that do not meet these standards, would not be
able to receive their fire fee funding.
   At the last 2 meetings, the main discussion has been performance standards
for fire departments. The commission set a sub-committee that has drafted a set
of performance standards on how fire departments are to respond and train
members. The draft was presented at last month’s meeting, and has not been
presented to the County Fire Chief’s for review. A special meeting will be held
this month to discuss the standards, making revisions or changes, vote on them
and send them to the Commissioners for approval. It has been alluded to in the
meeting, that fire departments that do not meet these standards, would not be
able to receive their fire fee funding.
   I have been contacted this week alone, by 8 County Fire Chiefs in regards to
these standards, and their response has been in a negative manner. As a
representative of the commission I have voiced my concerns publically at the
commission meetings and by email as requested by the commission. I am staying
very aware of the happenings of this committee. There has been some rumored
talk of a County Fire Department, but majority of the fire chiefs are not in
favor of this talk. A meet of fire chiefs has been called, and is scheduled for
late this month. The commission will meet again this month to discuss the
performance standard, and I will keep the city manager and the Board updated
with any new information. I will entertain any questions, or comments that you
may have.
Adjourn – 11:45 A.M.
   Meeting adjourned upon motion of Alderman Powell, second by Alderman Coring.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.   
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
FEBRUARY 8, 2017
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING FEBRUARY 8, 2017
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Todd Coring, Karen Mosteller, Jim Powell, Lora Sharkey,
Rick Pukenas, Marc Spencer
STAFF PRESENT:      Bruce Oakley, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney   
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
   David Fox, Public Works Director
   Mike Simmons, Police Sergeant
   Randy Jones, Tourism Director
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   Thomas Lloyd, Planner
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Dove called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Sharkey welcomed everyone and Reverend Ronald E. Davis; Mt. Carmel AME
Church gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Sharkey led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Public Comment
   Ms. Mary Ellen Poole, 217 Willis Drive, expressed concerns about citizens
having trouble paying property taxes. She stated that she and Alderman
Mosteller had obtained information about three (3) programs for tax relief;
Elderly or Disabled, Disabled Veteran and Circuit Breaker Tax Deferment. She
provided the Clerk with the Brunswick County “2018 Application For Property Tax
Relief.” The application will be available at City Hall and on the City’s web
page.
   Mr. Larry McCracken, Norseman Loop, Unit 1, immediate past present of
Rivermist Condominium Owners Association, gave a review of the original request
to make Norseman Loop one-way, a subsequent request to return Norseman Loop to
two-way and the Association’s continued support for a one-way traffic pattern.
   Mr. Kenneth Scheflin, Norseman Loop, Unit 3, resident for nine (9) years,
stated he had witnessed the traffic pattern as two-way and one-way and he said
the one-way is safer and in his opinion, drivers are more careful.
   Ms. Lori Sanderlin, 33 Pine Lake Road, introduced herself to the Board as
the new Manager of the NC Maritime Museum at Southport. She gave a brief
narrative of her upbringing, education, and experience. She offered support and
assistance promoting tourism.
   Mr. Donnie Joyner, Jabbertown Road resident, invited the Board to attend the
weekend long events of Black History Month. He stated the events would begin
Friday, February 2, 7:00 p.m. at the Community Building. He pointed out that
the majority of the events would feature women.
E)   Approval of Agenda
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Powell to approve the agenda.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Dove stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
F)   Announcements
   Mayor Dove announced that he would hold Mayor’s Day on Thursday, February
15, 4:00 – 5:30 p.m. at the Fire Substation, 111 E. Nash Street.
   Mayor Dove commented that the Board Retreat held Saturday, February 3 and
facilitated by Chris May, Council of Governments, was very successful.
   Mayor Dove announced that the Spring Arts Show would be held at Franklin
Square Art Gallery, Friday, March 2 beginning at 5:00 p.m.
   Mayor Dove thanked the Beautification Committee for the February “Our Town
Clean Up.”
   Alderman Mosteller announced that the “Annual Day of Service” would be held
Saturday, March 17 in lieu of a monthly “Our Town Clean Up.” She stated that
the City of Southport and Southport Beautification Committee will be partnering
with Trinity United Methodist Church. The day will begin with breakfast at the
church, 7:30 – 8:30 a.m., work until noon and close with pizza for all
volunteers. Alderman Mosteller pointed out that last year 90 volunteers turned
out.
   Alderman Pukenas encouraged the public to visit the latest exhibits at the
NC Maritime Museum at Southport. He noted that admission is free.
   Alderman Spencer asked Ms. Lori Sanderlin, NC Maritime Museum at Southport
Manager to explain the Museum’s Valentine’s Day Program. Ms. Sanderlin stated
that a “Parents Night Out” would be held and participants would make
valentines, watch movies and high school honor students would be available to
assist children with homework.
   Alderman Sharkey encouraged everyone to send comments to the federal
government on proposed offshore drilling along the North Carolina coast.
   Alderman Mosteller gave an update on the Animal Control Committee.
      Has held two meetings with citizen participation
      The definitions are being reviewed
      Using current ordinance to structure the revised ordinance
      Met with Sheriff Ingram
      Met with Boiling Spring Lakes Police Chief and Animal Control Officer
   Alderman Mosteller stated that the next meeting of the Animal Control
Committee would be held on Tuesday, February 20, 5:00 p.m. at the Fire
Department Substation, 111 E. Nash Street and is open to the public.
   Mayor Dove announced that the March regular meeting of the Board of Aldermen
would be held at Fire Headquarters, 1011 N. Howe Street, in recognition of the
125th anniversary of the Fire Department Charter.
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to approve the consent
agenda.   Unanimous vote; motion carried.   
Minutes for January 11, 2018 Regular Meeting – approved
2.   Resolution in Continued Opposition of Seismic Surveying and Stated
Opposition to Oil and Gas Offshore Exploration and Drilling off the Coast of
North Carolina - approved
3.   Preliminary Plat Approval; Southport Crossing - approved
4.   Road Closures - approved
Resolution of Continued Opposition of Seismic Surveying and Stated Opposition
to Oil and Gas Offshore Exploration and Drilling Off the Coast of North
Carolina
Whereas, the City of Southport is committed to being a sound steward of the
unique coastal environment, recognizing the value of the maritime forest,
estuaries, marshes and pristine waterfronts in Southport and other Brunswick
County coastal communities; and
Whereas, North Carolina waters provide some of the finest fish and shellfish
products in the world and seismic oil and gas exploration along the US Mid-
Atlantic and South Atlantic coasts is viewed by the marine science community to
pose an unacceptable risk of serious harm to marine life at the species and
population levels. Particularly at risk is the North Atlantic right whale, one
of the most endangered whales on Earth. Scientists warn the full extent of
impact by proposed seismic air gun activities will not be understood until long
after the harm occurs; and
Whereas, the Aldermen of the City of Southport have evaluated the validity of
job and revenue claims by the offshore drilling industry against the 2016
statistics of $543 million in tourism revenue for Brunswick County and the
41,000 plus tourists that visited the Southport Visitor Center, proving that
tourism has and continues to be the backbone of the City of Southport and
Brunswick County economies; and
Whereas, in 2016, the Aldermen of the City of Southport reaffirmed its earlier
opposition to seismic surveying and opposed the proposal by the U.S. Department
of the Interior to allow exploration and drilling of oil/gas resources in the
Mid and South Atlantic Ocean regions, such opposition resulted in the Atlantic
Ocean Outer Continental Shelf of the United States being withdrawn from federal
energy leasing program; and
Whereas, Presidential Executive Order 13795, “Implementing an America-First
Offshore Energy Strategy”, issued in April 2017 intends to reverse limits on
offshore seismic exploration and drilling in the Atlantic Ocean and reduce
environmental protection regulations related to offshore drilling, it is
critical the Aldermen of the City of Southport express continued opposition to
any proposals that would permit seismic surveying and offshore drilling for
oil/gas resources off the coast of North Carolina.
Be it Resolved the Aldermen of the City of Southport stand united with North
Carolina Governor Roy Cooper, governors of neighboring coastal states,
communities, residents, and visitors who oppose seismic air gun activities and
offshore drilling for oil/gas resources in the Atlantic Ocean.
Be it Further Resolved the Aldermen of the City of Southport call upon the U.S.
Secretary of the Interior to exempt the coastal zone and Outer Continental
Shelf of North Carolina from seismic oil/gas exploration and offshore drilling.
Adopted this 8th day of February, 2018
                     /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
Road Closures
Stede Bonnet 300 th Anniversary Commemoration: September 22, 2018, 8:00 a.m. –
6:00 p.m.
   1.   Closure on Bay Street from Howe Street to Atlantic Street
   2.   South Davis from Moore Street to Bay Street
   3.   I Am Street from Moore Street to Bay Street
Wooden Boat Show: September 29, 6:00 a.m. – 6:00 p.m.
   1.   Closure on Moore Street from Lord Street to Yacht Basin Drive
   2.   Caswell Avenue from Brunswick Street to Bay Street
   3.   Lord Street, from Moore Street to Bay Street
Cape Fear Cruiser 5 th Annual Classic Car ‘n Rock ‘n Roll: October 27, 2018, 8:
00 a.m. – 6:00 p.m.
   1.   South Howe Street from Moore Street to Bay Street
5.   Public Hearing; Zoning Text Amendment ZA 17-1214-01, Planned Residential
Development (PRD) 50 Foot Setbacks
   Alderman Sharkey motioned, second by Alderman Powell to go into Public
Hearing. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   City Planner Lloyd explained the proposed zoning text amendment. He stated
that he had received numerous complaints about the 50 ft. PRD setback line in
Forest Oaks, The Ridge and Southport Way. He pointed out that the setback
requirement made one vacant lot unbuildable and other lots unable to build
accessory structures. He stated that the proposed text amendment would clear up
the issue; the Planning Board reviewed the amendment and found it consistent
with the CAMA Core Land Use Plan and recommends that the Board of Aldermen
approve the text amendment.
   No one from the public spoke.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to close Public Hearing.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
6.   Consideration of Text Amendment ZA 17-1214-01, PRD 50 Foot setbacks
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to approve the text
amendment. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
AN ORDINANCE APPROVING A TEXT AMENDMENT TO THE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
   THAT WHEREAS, the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance and other
land use ordinances that control land development within both the City’s
incorporated areas and within its extraterritorial area; and
   WHEREAS, in order to promote the public health, safety and general welfare
and to promote the best interest of the city and community, it is necessary for
the City Board of Aldermen from time to time to consider appropriate revisions,
modification and additions to the city’s land use ordinances; and
   WHEREAS, City Staff, in conjunction with the Planning Board, has prepared
the proposed amendment to Article 11 of the Southport Unified Development
Ordinance; and
   WHEREAS, the Planning Board has thoroughly considered this matter and find
the proposed amendment to the Unified Development Ordinance to be consistent
with the City of Southport CAMA Core Land Use Plan and recommend its approval;
and
   WHEREAS, pursuant to N. C. General Statutes and city ordinances, a public
hearing, properly noticed, was held on February 8, 2018 before the Board of
Aldermen regarding this issue; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen, after considering the public hearing
response and the recommendation of the Planning Board, hereby find that the
proposed amendment to the Unified Development Ordinance is consistent with the
Southport CAMA Core Land Use Plan; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that this amendment is
reasonable and in the public interest in that it will make the setbacks more
uniform with similarly zoned land and it will increase the enjoyment and use of
the properties; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that the
attached amendment to Article 11 of the Southport Unified Development Ordinance
is hereby approved and adopted.
This, the 8th day of February, 2018                  City of Southport
                           /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
AMENDMENT TO CITY OF SOUTHPORT UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
TEXT AMENDMENT # 17-1214-01
   An Ordinance Amending the City of Southport Unified Development Ordinance,
With Respect to Article 11: Table of Area, Yard, Density, and Height
Requirements
Amend by Addition:
   1)   Article 11: TABLE OF AREA, YARD, DENSITY, AND HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS
      Section 11-1 “Notes to the Table of Area, Yard, Density, and Height
Requirements” is          hereby amended by adding the following note:
   Note 5. PRD Setbacks in developments approved prior to the adoption of the
Unified Development    Ordinance (UDO)
   In Planned Residential Developments approved prior to the adoption of the
UDO, the 50 foot PRD    setback line will no longer be in effect.
7.   Public Hearing; Zoning Text Amendment ZA 17-0809-01, Tree Preservation
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Spencer to go into Public
Hearing. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   City Planner Lloyd explained the proposed zoning text amendment. Planner
Lloyd’s agenda packet memorandum included in its entirety:
   Background
   “For some time, the Forestry Committee has worked on creating a text
amendment for adding tree preservation    standards to the Unified Development
Ordinance (UDO), primarily to be used during the development process. The goal
of    the text amendment is to have an Article in the UDO that would manage and
preserve the City’s tree canopy during the    development process. This
management will take the form of tree preservation on properties when possible,
and mitigation    through the replanting of trees when others are removed. The
Committee went to the Planning Board at the August 17th    meeting. Over the
next few months, they received feedback from staff, the Planning Board, as well
as some comments    from builders, developers and concerned citizens at two
Public Workshops (held at the October 19th and November 16th    Planning Board
meetings). At the November 16th meeting, the Planning Board voted to forward
the text amendment on to    the Board of Aldermen for review. Due to the
holidays, Alderman Mosteller and staff thought it would be best to hold the
   text amendment and review it at the February meeting. The public hearing for
this text amendment has been duly    advertised as required by NC    General
Statutes.
   Request
   The Forestry Committee is requesting a text amendment to amend the Unified
Development Ordinance by adding an    additional article in the UDO for Tree
Preservation.
   Article 27. Tree Preservation
   Amend:
   Add the amendment attached.
   Staff Recommendation
   Staff advises that the Board of Aldermen thoroughly review this addition to
the Unified Development Ordinance and gain feedback from the public. This is a
significant amendment and should be thoroughly considered. Staff also
recommends that    the Board of Aldermen have the City Attorney review the
ordinance to make sure that there are no potential legal issues that could
arise.”
   Alderman Mosteller thanked the Forestry Committee and City Planner for their
efforts creating the proposed tree preservation ordinance. She gave a brief
overview of the 15 month process preparing the draft proposed ordinance. Noting
that the first ordinance protecting the city’s trees was passed in 1890, she
emphasized that the trees are a valuable and important asset in the city and
Southport has a rich history recognizing that importance. She pointed out that
the city enjoys a 50 – 55% canopy coverage and the ordinance’s goal is to
establish a minimum standard of 40% canopy coverage. She talked about recent
housing developments and that the UDO did not have tree protection measures in
place for building projects. She noted that the proposed ordinance had been
presented to “subject matter experts” including the UNC School of Government,
city attorney and Urban Forestry Specialist Sam Marshall with NC Cooperative
Extension Brunswick County office.
   City Attorney Isenberg stated he had reviewed the proposed Ordinance and
made minor changes relating to penalties and property notice. He asked the City
Planner if a consistency statement had been made by the Planning Board. City
Planner Lloyd responded that the Planning Board did not make a consistency
statement.
   Noting the Ordinance would encourage smart design consistent with the
character of Southport, Mr. Fred Fiss, 206 N. Atlantic Avenue, and a
residential builder, stated his support for the proposed Tree Ordinance.
   Ms. Suzanne Hunt, 316 W. St. George Street, shared her experience with a
neighbor clearing their lot of all trees. She supported the proposed Tree
Ordinance to prevent clear cutting of lots.
   Stating she had attended several Forestry Committee meetings, Ms. Mary Ellen
Poole, 217 Willis Drive, thanked the Forestry Committee for their work on the
proposed Tree Ordinance and she expressed her support of it.
   Mr. Larry McCracken, 4004 Norseman Loop, spoke about multiple Live Oak trees
in the undeveloped parcel next to the Rivermist entrance. He stated his hope
that an ordinance could be put in place to protect the trees and that the area
could be city park.
   Ms. Betty Timberlake, 118 N. Atlantic, lifelong member of the Southport
Forestry Committee reminded everyone that the Committee has planted over 300
Live Oak trees along Southport streets. She provided a letter from her neighbor
and asked that the comments be a part of the official minutes.
   “To the members of the Committee for Trees in Southport:
   First off, thank you for serving and having the interest in our community!
   As a resident here for 30+ years, and a homeowner in the old section, I have
been a “proud steward” of 3 giant oaks since 1983. Passers-by often pause/or
stop and point and admire their stately beauty. I have been honored – twice! To
have my home on the Christmas Tour – and I give the trees in the front “huge
credit”!
   It has been brought to my attention that this Committee in considering some
revision in the local ordinance for trees that now    exists. May I please make
a comment or suggestion?
   We know and recognize that the beauty of our community would be severely
diminished if we didn’t have our ancient oaks! If you as Committee are seeking
to protect and preserve these local trees on city and private properties alike,
may I suggest the following for discussion?:
Choosing a qualified arborist for a (twice) yearly inspection of “city-wide”
oaks to monitor them and prescribe pruning/care as necessary.
Revision of cutting/removal permits to not allow any further damage or over
development where trees are located (this may point to architectural revision
in some cases)
Establishing a “Celebration of Oaks” to involve our citizens (especially our
young people and new comers) to educate them and inform them of our
irreplaceable assets we have in our magnificent trees. (written information and
field trips?)
You are serving Southport as you are on this committee. You were chosen or
appointed because of your awareness of the need to protect our unique natural
assets here in Southport. Surely this lovely coastal community deserves its
heritage and beauty to be valued and continue into the future!
Respectfully requested,
Elizabeth (Betsy) Isley
111 N. Atlantic Avenue
Southport, NC 28461
   Ms. Joanne Stuts, 406 Brunswick Street, spoke about her experience with a
recent clearing of a lot on Brunswick Street. She asked about the tree
preservation process during construction and she encouraged the Board to adopt
the proposed Ordinance.
   Mr. Ben Wilson, 416 Brunswick Street, thanked the City for having a Forestry
Committee and he thanked the Committee for putting together an Ordinance to
protect the trees. He noted that the key to the Ordinance will be enforcement.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to close Public Hearing.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
8.   Consideration of Text Amendment ZA 17-0809-01, Tree Preservation
   Noting that the city attorney had made revisions to the ordinance, Alderman
Mosteller suggested sending the ordinance back to the Planning Board for a
statement of consistency and put consideration of the amendment on the Board of
Aldermen’s March meeting agenda.
   Alderman Coring expressed concerns about enforcement of the ordinance.
Additionally, he commented about the appearance of government control over
property owners.
   Alderman Mosteller noted that the Ordinance provides for the City Manager to
designate enforcement. She stated the intent is for the Ordinance to be
administered through the Planning Department as much of the enforcement will be
during the permitting process. She pointed out that the Forestry Committee has
been consulted on numerous occasions regarding tree removal, pruning, and
replanting and will be a vital resource. She emphasized that the Ordinance does
not deny a property owner use of their property. She stated that the Ordinance
focuses on preserving a 40% canopy into the future. She offered to meet with
anyone who has concerns and go through the ordinance with them.
   Alderman Powell noted that the covenants and architectural review board of
Indigo Plantation review building plans and determine which trees can be
removed. He agreed with Alderman Coring that enforcement would be an issue.
   Alderman Pukenas praised the Forestry Committee for their work, the level of
detail and he voiced his support of the Ordinance. He stated that he views the
ordinance as a preventative plan and 50 years into the future it will be the
Board’s legacy.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Spencer to defer consideration
of Text Amendment ZA 17-0809-01, Tree Preservation until the March meeting.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
9.   Consideration of Letter of Agreement with Land Management Group, Inc.,
Environmental Consultants for Obtaining Regulatory Permitting for City Dock
Reconstruction
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to approve the
agreement with Land Management Group, Inc., subject to the City Manager and
City Attorney reviewing the final version of the agreement. Unanimous vote;
motion carried.
10.   Budget Amendment #10
   Finance Director Trexler explained that FY 2017-2018 Budget Amendment #10
was needed to appropriate funds raised by the Nutcracker Tea for upkeep of Fort
Johnston/Garrison House.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Sharkey to adopt Budget
Amendment #10. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1904_855x840.jpg]
 
Budget Amendment
Fiscal Year 2017-2018
Budget Amendment #10
WHEREAS, the City of Southport has Received Revenue from the Nutcracker Tea
Fundraiser for the Department of Tourism;
WHEREAS, the City needs to appropriate these funds for the Historic Ft.
Johnston/Garrison House continued up keep and care, and;
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2017-2018 needs to be amended to
reflect the use of these funds by the Department of Tourism;
WHEREAS the Funds are available in the General Fund;
   NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport, North
Carolina that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2017-2018 shall be
amended as follows:
   Revenues:    Increase
   General Fund
   10-82-3617-0000                $ 7,000   
   Expenditures                  Increase
   10-82-6170-3502 (R/M Facilities)            $7,000
   Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, February 8,
2018
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
   /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk      
11.   Norseman Loop One-Way
   City Manager Oakley recapped the request and Board adoption to change the
traffic pattern of Norseman Loop from two-way to one-way. He noted that Police
Chief Smith and Fire Chief Drew stated their approval of the one-way pattern.
The chiefs also approved the two-way traffic pattern as long as there was no
street parking.
   City Manager Oakley stated that he had received a request to return Norseman
Loop to the two-way traffic pattern as originally designed.
   A letter from Mr. McCracken, immediate past president of Rivermist
Condominium Owners Association, asking for Norseman Loop to remain one-way was
provided to the Board.
   City Attorney Isenberg pointed out that if the Board choose to retain the
one-way traffic flow, they did not need to take any action.
   Board consensus to table the request until the City receives a request from
the Rivermist Condominiums Owners Association Board.
PROJECT REPORTS
   City Manager Oakley reviewed the priorities set by the Board at their
February 3 Retreat:
      Yacht Basin/City Dock
      Waterfront Stabilization
      UDO Review/Update
      Buildings & Surplus Property
      Animal Control Ordinance, Standard Operating Procedures and
Implementation
   City Manager Oakley stated he had received a request from a property owner
that is adjacent to the future Southport Crossing development at NC 211 and
Long Beach Road Extension. He said the property owner would like the Board to
grant him permission to connect to Brunswick County water & sewer in lieu of
annexing into the City and connecting to Southport’s sewer. City Manager Oakley
pointed out that the subject project is within the City’s utility service area.
   The Board took no action on the request.
STAFF REPORTS – provided in the Agenda packet
BOARD COMMENTS
   Alderman Sharkey complimented the Tourism Department staff for the new easy
to use and informative web page.
   Alderman Coring stated his support for purchase of a table and chairs for
the City Hall 2nd floor conference room. He asked that the Board consider
having a discussion about the use of the 2nd floor of City Hall during the
upcoming Retreat.
   Alderman Coring asked about the status of street light installation along E.
Bay Street in front of Ft. Johnston.
   Noting that the Board had previously approved installation of four (4)
street lights, City Manager Oakley stated it was brought to his attention that
the lighting did not meet the Board adopted June 8, 2017 Lighting Policy. He
indicated that the Board could direct him to use the street lights already
purchased and not in compliance with the Lighting Policy or staff could get
pricing on decorative poles similar to those at Waterfront Park.
   Alderman Mosteller stated her concerns about the degree of kelvin of the
street lights the City has in inventory. She pointed out that the policy states
lighting must be 4,000 degree kelvin or less while the lights proposed for the
site are 5,000 degree kelvin.
   Alderman Spencer stated he would be against the lights on the waterfront.
   Alderman Powell noted that approximately $40,000 was spent purchasing the
fixtures.
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Powell to grandfather the
street lights and continue with the lighting already purchased and approved.
   By a show of hands:   Aye:   Aldermen Coring, Sharkey, Pukenas, Powell
            Nay:   Aldermen Mosteller & Spencer
   Motion carries 4-2
ADJOURN 
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to adjourn the
meeting
Unanimous vote; motion carried.   
                        /s/ J.V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
FEBRUARY 10, 2018
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN   RETREAT MINUTES
FIRE HEADQUARTERS   FEBRUARY 10, 2018
1011 N. HOWE STREET SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
RETREAT MINUTES
PRESENT:      Mayor J.V. Dove
         Aldermen Todd Coring, Karen Mosteller, Lora Sharkey, Jim Powell, Rick
Pukenas, Marc Spencer
STAFF PRESENT:   Bruce Oakley, City Manager
         Michele Windham, City Clerk
         Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
         David Fox, Public Works Director
         Gary Smith, Police Chief
         Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
         B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
         Thomas Lloyd, Planner
         Randy Jones, Tourism Director
Call to Order - 9:00 a.m.
   Mayor Dove called the meeting to order.
Brunswick Electric Membership Corp (BEMC)
   Mr. Tim Tippett, District Operations Supervisor and Ms. Deborah Fish of
Brunswick Electric Membership Corp (BEMC) addressed the Board. They gave a
presentation on BEMC’s services, relationship with the City, and a history of
the non-profit cooperative.
   Mr. Tippett outlined the operation and maintenance (O&M) contract with the
city to maintain and operate the electric distribution utility system for the
City and to manage, plan, construct, operate, maintain, repair, design, and
finance the utility system.
   Mr. Tippett talked about the Basic O&M, Non-Basic & Account Services:
      Supervision and direction
      Power restoration after outages, including repairs of damage
      Maintenance of substation equipment
      Replacement of overhead and padmount transformers
      Replacement of residential electric meters
      Maintenance of street lights and security lights
      Annual infrared scans, inspections of critical equipment
      Right-of-way clearing (5 weeks per year)
      Non-Basic Services are billed to the Customer or the City
      New Underground Services
      Electric System Upgrades
      Customer Account Services
      Reading electric meters
      Preparing and mailing monthly electric bills to the City’s electric
customers
      Processing remittances from the City’s electric customers
      In person, at any office of BEMC
      In the after-hours deposit facility at any office of BEMC
      By mail
      At any bill payment terminal
      By automatic draft of bank account or credit card
      By telephone with credit or debit card
      On line by e-payment
      New Customer Account Setup
   Mr. Tippett talked about the overhead to underground conversion projects
noting that of the 3,105 electric services in Southport, 703 are overhead and
2,401 are underground.
   Mr. Tippett reviewed the 2016 Board Retreat direction given to BEMC for
overhead to underground conversions based on:
      Age/condition of infrastructure
      Number of customers impacted
      While attempting to underground from the substation out
      Cost effectiveness
      Planning to minimize future trimming of trees
   Mr. Tippett noted that the 2016 Board of Aldermen set a budget amount each
year for underground and to allow BEMC to make the determination of what is
best to go underground with the available funds. Ms. Fish pointed out that many
years ago; the Board of Alderman mandated that all new electric services be
underground – no new overhead services.
   Mr. Tippett presented a proposed 2-Year work plan, FY 18/19 & FY 19/20
      NCDOT Hwy 211 Overhead to Underground (paid by NCDOT) $2,750,000
      Hwy 211 from 14 th Street to City of Southport City Limits; $2,750,000
      Overhead to Underground Conversions of Services Along Entire Route;
$157,000
      Yacht Basin/Moore AT&T Conversion so BEMC can remove Poles; $23,500 (paid
to AT&T)
      Lord Street Final Conversion and Overhead Retirement of Primary; $100,000
      Nine (9) weeks of right-of-way trimming; $45,000/yr.
      Rotten Pole Replacement – 50 poles/yr.; $100,000/yr.
   Alderman Coring asked how BEMC monitors the right-of-way clearing. Mr.
Tippett stated that BEMC would have direct supervision over crews and utilizes
GIS mapping of trees cut, scheduled to be cut, and corresponding dates.
   Alderman Pukenas asked for further explanation of the 9 weeks right-of-way
trimming. Mr. Tippett stated that BEMC tries to trim the trees during certain
times of the year when the city is less busy and things are just budding out.
Ms. Fish noted that the trimming is on a cycle, a five week stretch of tree
trimming was nearing completion and some trimming would be held for storm
season.
   Aldermen Pukenas and Sharkey asked about the possibility of same bore
trenching for electric, phone, and cable. Mr. Tippett stated that BEMC has a
good working relationship with ATMC and BEMC is trying to get others on board.
   Alderman Mosteller asked if matching grants could be obtained for the
conversion projects. Ms. Fish stated that BEMC has asked for legislation and
grants and that she would be happy to assist the city in securing grants.
Mr. Tippett reviewed pole replacement priorities
Priority 1 replaced 2011/2012 (complete)       56
Priority 2 replaced 2012/2013 (complete)       79
Priority 3 (rechecking now)            493
Priority 4 (ok until 2022)            704
Priority 5 (ok for a minimum of 15 years)      828
   Mr. Tippett reviewed the 2012-2017 Work Plan Conversion Projects
Yacht Basin Project COMPLETE
Ferry Road Underground Conversion COMPLETE
Lord Street Project – Need Immediately
Fodale Street Underground Conversion
Howe Street Underground Conversion
   Mr. Tippett stressed the importance of completing the Lord Street
underground conversion. He emphasized that the poles in that area are in very
bad shape and are becoming a safety concern. Ms. Fish stated that the project
has been on the Board’s agenda for 8-9 years, conduit is in place, the
conductor is at capacity, and the load is getting larger. Mr. Tippett added
that the materials are in stock and the project could be started as soon as the
City issued a purchase order.
   Mr. Tippett discussed two (2) cable upgrade and conversion from overhead to
underground projects:
FODALE STREET
   Distribution overhead to underground conversion along
      Fodale from Cape Harbour to El Moore, 0.7 mi.       `   $ 285,000
   Service conversions along
      Fodale from Cape Harbour to E. Moore, 19 services      $ 51,000
HOWE STREET
   Distribution overhead to underground conversion along
      Howe Street from W. 10 th to W. St. George, 0.5 mi.      $ 250,600
   Service conversions along
      Howe Street from W. 10 th to W. St. George, 18 services      $ 81,600
Mr. Tippett presented a price quotation for Bay Street Lighting
   4 Acorn LED Décor Lights and Concrete Poles along Bay Street      $ 18,250
   4 LED Lights and Concrete Poles along Bay Street
   (lights and poles in stock – already paid by City)            $ 8,500    
   Ms. Fish pointed out that the newest contract with the City mandates that
BEMC presents 2-year plans to the Board and to break down plans every year in
chunks as close to $340,000/yr. as possible.      
North Carolina Eastern Municipal Power Agency (NCEMPA)
   The following talking points were provided by Mr. Paul Fisher, City of
Southport NCEMPA Commissioner:
1.   The City of Southport has never had so many options for making electricity
reliable, cheap, and green.
   The biggest risk to grids is not power generation at all but the poles and
wires along with electricity flows.
   The answer to the threat to local systems is underground, renewables,
batteries and diesel generation.
   I recommend that along with BEMC, the City of Southport develops an
underground plan to use the $800,000 in the 2017-2018 budget this year. It is
further recommended that the city develop a long range plan to have all
electricity in the City underground by 2024.
2.   It is recommended that the City petition Piedmont Gas Company to provide
the city a time phased program that will offer natural gas to all sections of
the City of Southport.
3.   It is recommended that the City of Southport establish a task force with
the mission of providing a recommendation to the Board of Aldermen on how to
control the erosion problem along the banks of the Cape Fear River. This task
force should include, at least, the State, County, Corps of Engineers,
Wildlife, CAMA, and chaired by a member of the Board of Aldermen
4.   The City of Southport should review the Board of Aldermen minutes from
February 12, 2009, and provide the Southport Elementary School a small fund for
supplies from the recent monies provided by the ABC Board.
5.   Land Use:   It is recommended that the City explore the use of the City’s
land adjacent to Sunny Point to determine the economic feasibility of
establishing a solar farm. Waterfront Park, dust off plan for Waterfront Park
and pier.
Departmental Reports Review & Questions  (full department reports on file in
the Clerk’s office)
Tourism
   Responding to a query by Alderman Coring, Director Jones explained that
interest in a Maritime Memorial with a focus on Kingsley Park has been shown by
Downtown Southport Inc. and the Southport Historical Society. Mayor Dove
supported consideration of the project. Alderman Spencer stated he would like
to hear more about it.
   Director Jones stated that the Brunswick Art Council was taking the lead on
the Plein Air event.
   Alderman Sharkey asked about the Film Room in the Museum. Director Jones
indicated that he had received a $4,000 matching grant for a new interactive
walking tour.
   Alderman Spencer asked if Internet hot spots could be expanded, and the
quality and speed upgraded, throughout the city. Director Jones stated that
according to the provider, BEMC, more Wi-Fi hot spots could be added.
Parks & Recreation
   Included in the Board Retreat Agenda Packet were the Parks and Recreation
Department 2017 Accomplishments and a recommended 5 year plan. (Reports on file
in the Clerk’s office)
   Director provided the following considerations for 2018/2019 Projects:
      City Dock (dredging and placement of floating docks)
      Taylor Field Development (recreation center)
      HVAC for the City Gym
      Swing structures at Caviness Park
      Shingle replacement on gazebo at Riverwalk
      Cross braces repair on City Pier
      New floors in kitchen and restrooms at Community Building
      New railings installed in front and back of Community Building
      Surveillance system for all parks and recreation facilities
   In response to a question by Alderman Powell, Director Hemphill reported
that she would put together a plan for Taylor Field per the 2015 – 2020 Parks,
Recreation and Open Space Master Plan. She added that the City is on track to
apply for a 2019 matching PARTF grant and can use the value of the land for the
match. It was noted that any plans for Taylor Field would go through the
Planning Board, public hearings and to the Board of Aldermen.
   Mayor Dove stated his hope that Taylor Field could be connected to Lowe
White Park.
   Director Hemphill updated the Board on the completed repairs at a CAMA
access at the end of Lord Street, on-going repairs to the walkway at Riverwalk
and a plan to cover the midway seating and shingle replacement on the gazebo at
Riverwalk.
   Alderman Sharkey asked questions pertaining to programs. Director Hemphill
replied that the before and after school program has 10 children before school
and 30-35 children after school; the Senior Building has 30-40 events that do
not conflict with programs offered by Brunswick County Senior Center; athletic
programs offered are tennis, elementary to middle school age and basketball 5-
16 age range. Director Hemphill acknowledged that there is an age gap for high
school student activities. She added that Oak Island, Sheriff’s Department and
the Chamber of Commerce had tried to start a countywide youth/teen organization
and did not get any interest.
   Alderman Spencer noted that there is an interest in an aquatic center and he
encouraged consideration of a center at Taylor Field.
   Alderman Sharkey questioned if an indoor swimming pool was physically
possible. Director Hemphill stated she was a proponent of a recreation center
where all programs could take place.
Police
   Chief Smith included a review of 2017 goals and programs accomplished in the
Board Retreat Agenda Packet along with 2018-2023 programs/goals: (Complete
report on file in the Clerk’s office)
      Community Policing
      Officer Training
      Implement Vehicle Replacement Plan
      Personnel; increase department by one fulltime patrol officer for a total
of 12
      Add a position every odd year depending on city’s population growth
      Upgrade Equipment; pistols, lockout kits, jumper cables, bullet proof
vests
      Technology
      Facilities
   Chief Smith emphasized the need for a digital storage program, likely cloud
based, to accommodate the technological advances the department has made.
Additionally, he stated security measures will be added to the station doors.
When asked by Mayor Dove, Chief Smith stated the location of the Police
Department is working well though parking is always an issue.
   Alderman Sharkey and Mosteller asked about the retention of officers,
reserve program, foot patrols, elements of community policing and structure of
the department. Chief Smith reported that because Southport is a small
community, there are few opportunities for advancement, the department has
eleven (11) full time officers, five (5) reserve officers, foot patrol walks
the waterfront and downtown business district, the department has a We Care and
Child Safety Program, the working hours of detectives vary, the Lieutenant
normally works during day shift and two officers work during the night.
   Alderman Powell asked about cameras in the downtown area. Chief Smith stated
there is only a camera at Waterfront Park and to place cameras at Moore & Howe
Streets, looking in all four directions, would cost approximately $16,000. It
was noted that the Public Restrooms had cameras on it and the Police Department
has a camera for safe Craig’s List exchanges.
Planning & Inspections
   Building Inspector Strickland provided the following points for discussion:
    1.   Add building inspector position to train for eventual retirement.
   2.   Increase permitting fees to have inspections/planning pay for itself.
   3.   Upgrade permitting software, including options for online submittals
and review. Also rewrite permit applications to go with new software.
   4.   Purchase large scale scanner/printer/copier with Utilities and Parks
and Recreation.
   5.   Scan archived records so we have digital copies of all development
plans.
   6.   Purchase GIS software.
   7.   Begin UDO revision with consultants.
   8.   Move forward with pedestrian improvements recommended in the 2014
Pedestrian Plan.
   Inspector Strickland stated that an intern could be used to scan archived
files, purchase of a large scale scanner would allow the City to produce its
own maps, and an RFP is planned to be put out for an update of the Unified
Development Ordinance (UDO).
 
   There was discussion about increasing permitting fees, comparisons with
neighboring communities, cost of permits, types of inspections, and time spent
on permitting and inspections. Inspector Strickland to submit a recommendation
for % of permitting fees increase to the Rate Committee.
Public Services
   Director Fox included a review of 2017 accomplishments in the Board Retreat
Agenda Packet along with a 5 year Budget Request (Complete report on file in
the Clerk’s office).
   Responding to an inquiry by Alderman Sharkey, Director Fox clarified the
Sewer Department request for funding ($15,000) of solid removal from sewer
collection system stating that the timing of the funding would be determined by
the future of the former wastewater treatment plant.
   Director Fox talked about the training budget and current certifications of
staff. Per a query by Alderman Coring, Director Fox stated he would provide
information pertaining to after hour calls.
   Director Fox explained that a new position in the Water Division is needed
as well as an additional mechanic due to increased work load.
   Director Fox explained Remote Disconnect Meters (RDM):
   Remote Disconnect Meters have the ability to be turned on and off by
computer, tablet, smart phone, etc. by any authorized user. These meters save a
substantial amount of work for the Public Works Department, especially on
nonpayment disconnect day. They also save on overtime costs in after-hours
emergencies such as water leaks. Thus far, RDMs are proving themselves more
reliable than regular meters in terms of read failures and RF/mechanical
issues. These would also be VERY useful in times of drought or other mandated
water use restriction, taking customer compliance from just a suggestion to a
guarantee. Opening or closing an account does not require a site visit with an
RDM. These units are impossible to turn on without MiNet access, eliminating
the possibility of water theft when turned off.
   RDMs are substantially more costly than regular meters, but it is my strong
opinion that the cost is more than outweighed by the benefits they provide. As
of February, 2018, a regular meter with its required node will cost $205.00. An
RDM with its node will cost $380.00. This is a one-time cost. How many times
will a worker be paid to go operate the meter at that address over its
lifetime?
   Director Fox stated he would like to phase in the RDMs during new
construction and on repeat delinquent payment accounts.
   Responding to a question by Alderman Sharkey, Director Fox and Planner Lloyd
reported that the mapping of the sewer and water systems is 75% complete.
Administration
   City Manager Oakley reported that he is working on updates to the Personnel
Policy and expects to have it ready for submittal during the budget process.
Additionally, he stated he is updating the contact information for the
Emergency Management Plan and will send it out for review.
   City Manager Oakley stated that he and the Finance Director will be revising
the format of the annual budget to make it more users friendly, i.e. graphs,
etc.
   City Manager Oakley supported the proposed succession planning for the
Building Inspector.
   City Manager Oakley reported that staff is getting information for a table
and chairs for the 2nd floor conference room in City Hall.
   Responding to a query from Alderman Spencer, City Manager Oakley stated that
decisions would be made and approval obtained as to what documents can be
disposed of that are currently stored in the former City Hall.
Finance
   Included in the Board Retreat Agenda Packet, Finance Director Trexler
provided Operating Cash Balances – FY09-FY17, Governmental Funds Balance
Activity – FY09-FY17, Proprietary Funds Balance Activity – FY07-FY17, Capital
Expenditures 2017-2018, and General Ledger Revenue Analysis by Account Type and
Expenditure Analysis. (Reports on file in the Clerk’s office)
   Finance Director Trexler indicated that the Electric fund working capital is
$3.8M, Sewer $1.5M and $1.6M is in General Fund. Responding to a question from
Alderman Sharkey, Finance Director Trexler stated that the target % for General
Fund Balance is 30%. She indicated the City currently carries a 20-25% General
Fund Balance.
   Finance Director Trexler included a listing of property appraisals for all
properties owned by the City. She reviewed the reports with the Board noting
that most of the values represent replacement value.
   Finance Director Trexler verified for Alderman Powell that funds were
available to proceed with the Lord Street Final Electric Conversion and Fodale
Avenue Underground Conversion projects.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to proceed with the
electric underground projects for Lord Street and Fodale Avenue up to $600,000.
Discussion
   Alderman Mosteller questioned if the City would pay for electric to be
connected to customers’ meters on Lord Street. Alderman Powell noted that the
connection per residence would be roughly $2,000 and the Board could address
that issue at a later Board meeting.
   Unanimous vote; motion carried..
Adjourn – 12:30 P.M.
   Meeting adjourned upon motion of Alderman Powell, second by Alderman
Pukenas. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
                     /s/ J.V. Dove, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
MARCH 8, 2018
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN   REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
FIRE HEADQUARTERS   MARCH 8, 2018
1011 N. HOWE STREET SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Karen Mosteller, Lora Sharkey, Jim Powell, Todd Coring,
Marc Spencer, Rick Pukenas
STAFF PRESENT:      Bruce Oakley, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
   David Fox, Public Works Director
   Mike Simmons, Police Lieutenant
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
   Randy Jones, Tourism Director
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   Thomas Lloyd, Planner   
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Dove called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
   Alderman Pukenas welcomed everyone and Rev. Lowe Davis gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Pukenas led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Public Comment
   Mr. Scott Len, 318 Willis Drive, Chairman of the Southport Forestry
Committee, talked about the process the Forestry Committee utilized to craft
the fair, equitable and accurate proposed Tree Preservation Ordinance. He noted
that the endeavor took nearly two (2) years with extensive research,
discussions, public hearings, multiple layers of review by the NC Forest
Service, NC Council of Government, Planning Board, Contractors, City Attorney,
and Private Citizens. He emphasized the value of trees; provides shade in the
summer, filters the air, absorbs stormwater, is a protective blanket and helps
save on energy usage. He urged the Board to adopt the Ordinance.
   Mr. Frank Kelly, 4002-1 Norseman Loop, Rivermist Subdivision, provided the
Board with a petition of approximately 50 signatures from the townhomes
residents requesting the City return Norseman Loop to a two-way traffic
pattern. Mr. Kelly stated his opinion that emergency vehicles can access the
two-way street as long as there is no parking on the streets per the
homeowners’ association covenants.
   Mr. Tom Lombardi, 5021 Oarlock Court, noting that he had come from small
towns with very strong tree ordinances, expressed his support for the proposed
Tree Preservation Ordinance.
   Ms. Joan Kelly, 4002-1 Norseman Loop, Rivermist Subdivision, stated that she
would not have moved into the area had she known that Norseman Loop would be
changed to a one-way traffic pattern.
   Dr. Joe Pat Hatem, 610-A West Brown Street, praised the Forestry Committee
and city staff for their efforts crafting the proposed Tree Preservation
Ordinance. He spoke about the aesthetic and economic benefits of a healthy tree
canopy. He encouraged everyone to read the ordinance.
E)   Approval of Agenda
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to Approve the Agenda.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Dove stated, “If any member of the Board knows    of
any conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with
respect to    matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
   Alderman Pukenas requested to be recused from voting on the Consent Agenda
as he operates one of the For Hire Tours.
F)   Announcements
   Mayor Dove announced that Mayor’s Day would be held Thursday, March 15, 4:00
– 5:30 p.m. in the Fire Substation, 111 E. Nash Street.
   Mayor Dove announced that the Spring Festival would be held over Easter
Weekend, March 30 through April 1 in Franklin Square Park.
   Mayor Dove thanked the Beautification Committee for their efforts keeping
the city beautiful.
   Alderman Mosteller announced that the “Annual Day of Service – Paint a Park”
would be held Saturday, March 17. The day begins at 7:15 a.m. with breakfast at
Trinity United Methodist Church, followed by work until noon with pizza after.
She pointed out that last year 90 volunteers turned out. She encouraged
everyone to come out and participate.
   Alderman Mosteller gave an update on the Animal Control Committee:
      Targeting the end of March for document to be ready for review
      Draft would be made available on the City’s website
      A public hearing for citizen input will be held
   Alderman Mosteller stated that the next meeting of the Animal Control
Committee would be held on Tuesday, March 20, 5:00 p.m. at the Fire Department
Substation, 111 E. Nash Street. The meeting is open to the public.
   Alderman Mosteller reported that staff is preparing a Request For
Qualifications (RFQ) for an update of the Unified Development Ordinance (UDO).
   Alderman Coring reported that preparations have begun for the 4th of July
Festival. He stated that the Fire Department would hold their 33rd Annual Fire
Fighters Competition. He added that the mobile 911 Never Forget exhibit will be
in Southport June 30 & July 1, 9:00 a.m. – 3:00 p.m. He stated that firemen
from the site will accompany the very touching exhibit.
   Alderman Coring reported that he, Aldermen Sharkey and Spencer have begun
meeting with staff and the City Manager to craft a strategic plan of use for
city owned properties. He said he anticipated that a recommendation would be
ready for Board consideration during the April regular meeting.
G)   Special Recognition – Fire Department 125 th Anniversary
   The Board of Aldermen honored the Southport Fire Department for 125 years of
service. Mayor Dove read and presented a proclamation to Fire Chief Drew and
members of the department.
P R O C L A M A T I O N
WHEREAS, the Southport Fire Department, will celebrate their 125th anniversary
in 2018; and
WHEREAS, the volunteer fire department was organized on February 03, 1893 with
20 men; and
WHEREAS, the Southport Fire Department has grown into a full-service department
providing services in a fire division and an emergency medical services
division; and
WHEREAS, the Southport Fire Department responds to nearly 500 calls per year
and has never missed a call; and
WHEREAS, the EMS Division assists with over 2000 medical emergencies per year;
and
WhEREAS, the Department is comprised of nearly 50 firefighters and 40 EMS
volunteers; and
WHEREAS, the Southport Fire Department has earned a Class 3 rating from the
North Carolina Office of the State Fire Marshall insurance which saves citizens
money on their homeowners insurance; and
WHEREAS, the Southport Fire Department has served the citizens in its fire
district with honor, bravery and dedication for 125 years; and
WHEREAS, the Southport Fire Department volunteers take pride in the community
by participating in city festivals and events; and
Now therefore, I, Mayor J. V. Dove, by virtue of the authority vested in me as
Mayor of the City of Southport, do hereby recognize the 125th Anniversary of
the Southport Fire Department.
This the 8th day of March,
2018.                                                 /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor   
/s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Powell to recuse Alderman
Pukenas , add attendance of Alderman Spencer to the February 3 Retreat meeting
minutes and approve the consent agenda. Unanimous vote (5-0); motion carried.
   1.   Approval of Minutes for February 3, 2018 Retreat, February 8, 2018
Regular Meeting &    February 10, 2018 Retreat – approved
   2.   Tourism Committee For Hire Tours Permit Recommendations – approved
AGENDA
3.   Consideration of Franklin Square Art Gallery Lease and Resolution
   City Attorney Isenberg pointed out that minor modifications had been made to
the Franklin Square Art Gallery Lease.
   Alderman Powell asked for a provision allowing for a 60 day notice of
termination by either party.
   Alderman Mosteller questioned if the 2007 $500,000 liability insurance
coverage was adequate.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Spencer to adopt the Resolution
and accept the lease as written with changes:
Delete need for elevator – already installed
Tenant shall be responsible for any and all repairs and maintenance
Either party may terminate the lease with a 60 day notice
Terms of lease to begin March 8, 2018 and run for 10 years
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING LEASE OF CITY PROPERTY
   WHEREAS, the City of Southport owns the old City Hall site located in
Franklin Square Park now known as Franklin Square Art Gallery which site the
Board finds is currently surplus to the city’s needs; and
   WHEREAS, the City and Associated Artists of Southport have agreed upon a
lease, under which Associated Artists of Southport will lease the City’s
property described above for a term of 10 years beginning March 8, 2018; and
   WHEREAS, in consideration of leasing this property, Associated Artists of
Southport has agreed to pay the sum of $1 per year and be responsible for
necessary improvements, additions and alterations to the property, and for all
repairs, maintenance, insurance and expenses; and
   WHEREAS, N.C.G.S. 160A-272 authorized the City to enter into leases of up to
10 years upon resolution of the Board of Aldermen adopted at a regular meeting
after 10 days public notice; and
   WHEREAS, the required notice has been published and the Board is convened in
a regular meeting;
   NOW, THEREFORE, THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN RESOLVES that the Board hereby
approves the lease of the city property described above to Associated Artists
of Southport for 10 years and directs the City Manager to execute any
instruments necessary to the lease.
   Adopted March 8, 2018               City of Southport
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA
COUNTY OF BRUNSWICK               LEASE
   THIS LEASE, made and entered into this 8th day of March, 2018, by and
between CITY OF SOUTHPORT, a municipal corporation, hereinafter called "Owner",
and ASSOCIATED ARTISTS OF SOUTHPORT, a North Carolina non-profit corporation,
hereinafter called "Tenant", both of Brunswick County, North Carolina.
W I T N E S S E T H   T H A T:
   Owner hereby leases to Tenant and Tenant hereby leases from Owner the
property described below, on the terms herein set forth.
   I. Property. The leased property, herein called "Property", is located in
Southport, North Carolina, together with all improvements, easements and
appurtenances belonging thereto, said property being more particularly
described as follows:
The old City Hall site located in Franklin Square Park now known as Franklin
Square Art Gallery.
   II. Term. The term of this lease begins on the 8th day of March, 2018, and
runs for a period of up to ten (10) years, ending at midnight on the 7th day of
March, 2028, unless sooner terminated as provided herein. Notwithstanding,
either party hereto may terminate this lease at any time without liability or
obligation to the other party (except as otherwise stated herein) by giving
written notice to the other party at least 60 days prior to the date of
termination. In addition, Owner shall have the absolute right to terminate this
Lease at any time without liability or obligation to tenant upon 5 days notice
upon a finding by the Board of Aldermen that an emergency situation exists and
that said property is needed by the City of Southport for the conduct of its
business or efficient operation of the City, said finding to be in the
discretion of the Board of Aldermen.
   III. Rent. Tenant shall pay to Owner as rent, without notice or demand
therefor, the sum of $ 1.OO per year for the lease term beginning on the date
hereof. Each subsequent rental payment shall be payable on or before the same
day of each succeeding year thereafter for the term of this Lease.
    IV. Improvements. Tenant shall make no major changes in the Property
without Owner's prior written consent. Said consent shall not be unreasonably
withheld by Owner. Tenant shall comply with all applicable building codes,
zoning ordinances, laws and regulations in the construction of any permitted or
required improvements, renovations and additions to said Property and in the
use of said Property. All building improvements, alterations and additions
shall become a permanent part of the real estate and as such the property of
Owner. At the expiration of this Lease, and upon request by the Owner in
writing, Tenant shall remove any equipment and other personal property and
repair all damage caused by such removal within thirty (30) days from request
by Owner.
   V. Owner's Inspection. Owner, during the term of this lease, at reasonable
times and upon reasonable notice, may enter the Property to view and inspect
it.
   VI. Use. Tenant shall use the Property as an art gallery and for no other
purpose unless prior written consent of the Owner is obtained. Tenant shall
comply with all laws, regulations and ordinances relating to the Property and
its use, shall comply with any restrictive covenants applicable to the
Property, shall not permit any noxious or offensive sights, odors or activities
on the Property and shall not conduct or permit any nuisance thereon.
   VII. Owner's Use of Grounds. Owner retains the right to use the yards,
grounds and areas not covered by structures for any purpose or use which does
not interfere with Tenant's use of the Property as set forth above.
   VIII. Condition of Premises. Tenant has been in possession and occupancy of
the property for at least 10 years and is completely familiar with its'
condition. Owner makes no warranties or representations as to the condition of
the Property. Tenant hereby accepts the Property in its present condition and
upon termination of this lease will surrender the Property in as good condition
as the same now exists, ordinary wear and tear excepted.
   IX. Repairs. Tenant shall make and be responsible for any and all repairs
and maintenance whatsoever to the Property. Owner shall have no responsibility
to maintain or repair any part of the property.
   X. Insurance and Indemnity. Tenant will provide and keep in force in its
name and Owner's name public liability insurance in an amount of at least
$500,000.00. Premiums for all said insurance policies shall be paid by Tenant
and Tenant shall furnish Owner satisfactory proof of all said policies, changes
therein and payment of all premiums upon request. Tenant agrees to indemnify
and save harmless Owner from any loss, damages or expenses arising out of any
claims asserted or actions brought against Owner based upon acts or omissions
of Tenant, its agents, employees, contractors and invitees, in connection with
Tenant's use and occupancy of the property, including court costs and
reasonable attorney fees. Owner agrees to keep and maintain fire and hazard
insurance on the Property.
   XI. Utilities. Tenant shall pay and be responsible for all electric, water,
sewerage and other utility expenses arising out of Tenant's occupancy and use
of the property.
   XII. Assignment. Tenant shall not have the right to assign this lease in
whole or in part or to sublet any part of the Property without Owner's prior
written consent.
   XIII. Default. If Tenant shall fail to pay any annual rental within fifteen
(15) days after the same is due, or if Tenant shall fail to pay any other sums
or perform any other obligations, duties or responsibilities for which it is
liable hereunder, after twenty (20) days notice in writing to pay or perform,
or in the event of Tenant's bankruptcy, insolvency, dissolution, receivership
or assignment for the benefit of creditors, then in any of said events Owner
may terminate this lease and immediately reenter and resume possession of the
Property or any part thereof and remove all persons and property therefrom.
Owner may take any other legal action or pursue any other remedy against Tenant
or against any guarantors of this lease, or Owner may terminate the lease and
proceed with other remedies concurrently. If Tenant fails to pay any sum of
money or do any act required hereunder, Owner may, but shall not be required to
pay said money and do said act, and Tenant shall within thirty (30) days after
notice in writing repay said money and reimburse Owner for the entire costs of
said act, together with interest at the prime rate of First Citizens Bank and
Trust Company plus 1% and attorneys fees as may be required, and any failure on
Tenant's part to make such repayment shall constitute a default hereunder.
   XIV. Merger. This lease shall supersede all prior leases between the parties
for the Property described herein and said prior leases are hereby nullified.
All rights and obligations of the parties shall be governed by this lease.
   XV. Binding Effect. This lease shall be binding upon and inure to the
benefit of all parties, their heirs, executors and administrators, successors
and assigns.
   IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this lease in duplicate as of
the day and year first above written.      CITY OF SOUTHPORT            
                           By: /s/ Bruce Oakley,CITY MANAGER
ASSOCIATED ARTISTS OF SOUTHPORT  BY:
4.   Consideration of Text Amendment ZA 17-0809-01, Tree Preservation
   Alderman Mosteller pointed out that the Forestry Committee had worked nearly
two (2) years on the proposed Tree Preservation Ordinance. She emphasized that
Southport’s trees are valuable and important assets. She spoke about the
benefits of trees to the environment.
She stated; In order for us to stay successful in the face of changing times,
we have to be led by the character that defines us. Our trees are in large
measure, the visual reminder of that character.”
   Alderman Mosteller motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to adopt the Tree
Preservation Ordinance to begin implementation July 1, 2018.
Discussion
   Alderman Powell stated his support for the ordinance. He raised concerns
about potential issues citing his neighborhood, Indigo Plantation. He indicated
that the subdivision had tree regulations which have created problems for
residents and discord in the neighborhood. He stated he did not want that to
happen in Southport. He suggested educating prospective buyers about the tree
ordinance prior to purchase of property.
   City Attorney Isenberg noted that when someone purchases property in
Southport, they are subject to all municipal ordinances.
   Responding to Mayor Dove, Attorney Isenberg stated that the most restrictive
ordinance/covenant would apply in a case of a homeowners association and City
differing on interpretation of the ordinance and that the City could only
enforce its’ own ordinances.
   Stating his support for the ordinance, Alderman Spencer questioned the
canopy guidelines. He noted that where he lives is probably 200% – 300% canopy
coverage and he questioned if a permit would be required for removal of a tree
and if it would be mandatory to replant a tree. He stated that the ordinance
raises property right issues and that there are some people that do not like to
do yard work and do not want trees.
   Alderman Mosteller responded to Alderman Spencer’s concerns. She stated that
only “regulated” trees would require a permit for removal and the ultimate goal
of the ordinance is to retain a 40% canopy coverage. She added that citizens
already thought the City had a tree preservation ordinance.
   Alderman Powell asked about enforcement of the ordinance. City Manager
Oakley stated that staff would be responsible for enforcement.
   Alderman Sharkey spoke in favor of the ordinance, noting that it would allow
the city to protect a valuable resource.
   Alderman Pukenas stated he has had people assume the trees are protected and
he has had to tell them “No.” 
   Alderman Coring stated his support for the ordinance and explained that he
had asked the hard questions at the February meeting to ensure he did his due
diligence. “As hard as we fight to protect our waters and our coastline, we
should fight just as hard for the trees” he said.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
AN ORDINANCE APPROVING A TEXT AMENDMENT ADDING A TREE PRESERVATION ARTICLE TO
THE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
THAT WHEREAS, the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance and other
land use ordinances that control land development within both the City’s
incorporated areas and within its extraterritorial area; and
   WHEREAS, in order to promote the public health, safety and general welfare
and to promote the best interest of the city and community, it is necessary for
the City Board of Aldermen from time to time to consider appropriate revisions,
modifications and additions to the city’s land use ordinances; and
   WHEREAS, The Forestry Committee, in conjunction with City Staff and the
Planning Board, has prepared the proposed amendment to create an Article 27 of
the Southport Unified Development Ordinance; and
   WHEREAS, the Planning Board has thoroughly considered this matter and found
the proposed amendment to the Unified Development Ordinance to be consistent
with the City of Southport CAMA Core Land Use Plan and recommends its approval;
and
   WHEREAS, pursuant to N. C. General Statutes and city ordinances, a public
hearing, properly noticed, was held on February 8, 2018 before the Board of
Aldermen regarding this issue; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen, after considering the public hearing
response and the recommendation of the Planning Board, hereby finds that the
proposed amendment to the Unified Development Ordinance is consistent with the
Southport CAMA Core Land Use Plan because it supports the maintenance of
environmentally sensitive areas and encourages development that will protect
its resources and atmosphere, as stated in Polcy 25 and Policy 90 of the 2014
CAMA Land Use Plan; and;
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that this amendment is reasonable
and in the public interest because it protects and preserves the City’s
character and heritage, it protects the City’s environment, and it preserves
Southport’s aesthetic beauty; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that the
attached amendment to the Southport Unified Development Ordinance creating an
Article 27 for Tree Preservation is hereby approved and adopted.
This, the 8th day of March, 2018.            City of Southport
                     /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk          
ARTICLE 27. TREE PRESERVATION
The overarching goal of this article is to proactively manage the City of
Southport’s Urban Maritime Forest and its tree canopy. This management will
take the form of tree preservation when at all possible, and mitigation through
the replanting of trees when others must be removed.
   A healthy and expansive tree canopy provides a wide range of benefits to the
citizens of Southport. Aesthetically, the nurturing of trees and tree canopy
provides for a pleasant and beautiful community in which both residents and
visitors alike benefit from. Economically, a robust tree canopy provides a
consistent cooling effect on our community and on individual properties that
can significantly reduce cooling costs for homeowners and businesses alike.
Property values on both public and private land are increased when trees form
part of the landscape. A healthy tree can increase residential property values
by as much as 27 percent.
One large tree can lift up to 100 gallons of water out of the ground and
discharge it into the air in a day, helping to filter the air that we breathe
and control storm water. In our coastal location, Southport’s tree canopy
protects our community and helps mitigate the damage caused by wind during
tropical storms and hurricanes.
   For all these reasons, the City of Southport places great value on our Urban
Maritime Forest and the tangible and intangible benefits that it provides. This
article provides a plan to ensure that existing trees are protected, in
particular our signature heritage Live Oaks, and at the same time provides
guidelines for mitigation through the replanting of native species when it is
necessary to remove trees. 1
Section 27-1. Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this Article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
Arborist: An arborist shall be an individual trained in arboriculture,
horticulture, forestry, ornamental horticulture or urban forestry, who
possesses the technical competence through demonstrated experience to provide
plans for and supervise the protection, maintenance and management of trees and
other woody plants in relation to land development and construction. In
addition, the arborist shall hold current certification and membership in good
standing with the ISA (International Society of Arboriculture) or ASCA
(American Society of Consulting Arborists).
Buffer: Any visual buffer or screening required by the City of Southport
Unified Development Ordinance.
Caliper: The diameter of a nursery-stock tree trunk in inches, measured 6
inches from the ground or top of the root ball. If the diameter is greater than
4 inches, the trunk is measured 12 inches from the ground. If a tree splits or
forks into multi-trunks, the trunk is measured at its narrowest point below the
split or fork.
City Manager (City of Southport): For the purpose of this ordinance, the term
“City Manager” shall refer to the City of Southport City Manager, or his/her
designate , as appropriate. The City Manager shall appoint the appropriate
department or employee of the City to administer this Article and address
specific procedures or issues.
Critical Root Zone: The minimum area surrounding a tree that is considered
essential to support the viability of the tree and is equal to a radius of one
and one-half foot per inch of trunk diameter (Diameter at Breast Height).
Crown: The totality of branches, twigs, and leaves extending from the trunk or
main stem(s).
Developed or Development: The act, process or state of erecting buildings or
structures, or making improvements to a parcel or tract of land not otherwise
excluded by the provisions of this Article or the City of Southport Unified
Development Ordinance (UDO).
Diameter at Breast Height (DBH): The diameter or width of the main stem of a
tree as measured 4.5 feet above the natural grade at its base. Whenever a
branch, limb, defect or abnormal swelling of the trunk occurs at this height,
the DBH shall be measured at the nearest point above or below 4.5 feet at which
a normal diameter occurs. Trees consisting of two (2) or more stems in which
the fork is below DBH are considered as separate trees and the diameter is
measured for each stem separately. If a fork occurs exactly at DBH, the
diameter measurement is taken immediately below the enlargement caused by the
fork.
Essential site improvements: Any construction or reconstruction of site
development features required by any local, state or federal regulations,
ordinances or laws, such as: underground drainage, off-street parking,
driveways and retention areas or similar improvements required for the intended
use of the site.
Grading: Altering the shape of the ground surface to a predetermined condition;
this includes stripping, cutting, filling, stockpiling and shaping or any
combination thereof and shall include the land in its cut or filled condition.
Hazard tree: A tree can be considered a potential hazard if it is situated in
an area frequented by people or is located adjacent to valuable facilities and
has structural defects which predispose it to mechanical failure in whole, or
in part, that may result in property damage, personal injury or death, and the
likelihood of this failure exceeds an acceptable level of risk as determined by
the City Manager or a certified arborist.
Introduced Tree: Any non-existing tree that is planted during the development
of a property.
Heritage Tree: any Live Oak (Quercus virginiana) within the city limits of
Southport with a DBH of 8 inches or larger. This species may be protected by
additional conditions imposed by the Board of Aldermen, beyond that of
Regulated Tree, as they feel they are necessary to maintain this tree
population for its historic, environmental and aesthetic significance.
Permeable Paving: Any paving which, due to its inherent nature or construction,
allows fluids and gases to penetrate through it in at least some areas.
Preserved Tree(s): Any tree or groups of trees existing prior to development of
a property that is protected so that it remains after the development has been
completed.
Pruning: The elimination of part of the branching structure of a tree’s crown
to improve tree structure, enhance vigor and/or maintain safety.
Public Tree: Any tree on public lands, which are City-owned property and City
right of way (ROW).
Regulated tree: The subsurface roots, crown and trunk of any self-supporting
woody perennial plant such as a large shade tree, which usually has one (1)
main stem or trunk, and has a measured DBH as follows:
A hardwood tree, having a single trunk eight 8 inches in DBH. Trees may have
single or multiple trunks but at least one trunk must measure eight (8) inches
in diameter.
A coniferous tree, having a single trunk twelve 12 inches in DBH.
Any tree, of any species, with a DBH of 30” or more. (Specimen tree)
(4)   For the purpose of this Article, a Private Homeowner will only be
required to obtain a tree removal permit for the removal of a Regulated Tree
located in the front setback of the property, or a Specimen tree in any
location on the property. If a lot is improved with the addition of a structure
or hardscape that requires obtaining a Building permit, then the homeowner will
be required to note ALL Regulated trees as noted above when applying for the
tree removal permit.
Right of Way (ROW): Right of way is an area of land over which people and goods
have the right to pass or travel. A public right of way grants passage to all
and provides the right to park registered vehicles in accordance with local
parking restrictions. Public right of way is a form of easement typically
dedicated to the City during subdivision for public use. Right of way is not
part of the adjacent parcels; the right of way boundary usually coincides with
adjacent parcel property lines. The City controls all public rights of way.
Public amenities such as streets and sidewalks are part of the public right of
way.
Single Lot Residential: A lot transitions from being a part of a PUD or
subdivision to single lot residential when it is sold or deeded into
individual/single ownership.
Specimen Tree: Any tree, of any species, with a DBH of 30” or trunk
circumference of 8’ or more. A tree which grows to such maturity provides
significant aesthetic as well as practical benefits to the community at large.
Therefore, providing the tree remains viable it shall be accorded additional
protections under this Article.
Tree: Any species of self-supporting, perennial, woody plant normally capable
of attaining a height of twenty (20) feet at maturity.
Tree Mitigation Fund: A fund established to receive money for compensation for
damage to or removal of public trees, or for fees-in-lieu of preservation or
replanting on a construction site. The funds will be utilized specifically to
replant, maintain, or improve the health of the City’s urban forest.
Expenditure of these funds will be incorporated in to the annual city budgeting
process and follow the guidelines outlined in the City of Southport Urban
Forest Management Plan (2011).
Tree Plan: A scaled site plan and other documentation that identifies preserved
trees, newly planted trees, and other information as required in this Article.
Tree Removal Permit: A permit that must be obtained from the Planning &
Inspections Department prior to the removal and proper disposal of any
Regulated tree located in the front setback of any private property or a
Specimen tree located in any location of the property. A Tree Permit shall also
be required for any development, whether commercial, industrial, or residential
as part of the Building Permit and approval process. The Tree Permit fee will
be set by the Southport Board of Aldermen.
Tree Survey: Typically prepared by a surveyor, registered forester or certified
arborist indicating accurate locations, sizes and species of trees, and/or
other desired measurements or information on trees on a property or given
location. For the purposes of single lot residential construction or on a
property with an existing structure, a “tree survey” shall be a rendering of
the property which indicates the current or proposed footprint of any
structures or hardscape, along with an indication of regulated trees which are
to be retained, as well as those that are to be removed. In the case of
commercial or Planned Urban Development (PUD), the requirement for obtaining a
permit is that the survey will be prepared by a surveyor, registered forester,
landscape architect, or certified arborist as noted above.
Tree Value: The value of a Regulated tree that is unlawfully removed,
destroyed, or altered in such a way that it has a deleterious effect on
continued viability shall be determined at a rate of up to $500/inch of DBH.
Section 27-2. Purpose.
(a)   The general purpose of this article is to regulate and control the
planting maintenance, and removal of trees.
(b)   The specific purposes of this article are:
(1)   To safeguard and enhance property values and to protect public and
private investment through the maintenance and protection of significant
existing trees.
(2)   To prevent the indiscriminate removal of trees and ensure mitigation when
trees are necessarily removed. (Ord. of 10-13-88, § 1)
Section 27-3. Exceptions.
(a)   The City Manager may waive the requirements of this Article during an
emergency such as hurricane, tornado, windstorm, tropical storm, flood or other
natural occurrence or event.
(b)   If any regulated tree shall be determined to be a hazard tree such that
it may:
(1) Immediately endanger the public health, safety or welfare, or
(2) Cause an immediate disruption of public services,
The City Manager may authorize removal of the tree without a written permit.
Following removal, the City Manager may determine that replacement with
additional trees is necessary. In making determinations, the City Manager shall
utilize such professional criteria and technical assistance as may be
necessary. (Ord. of 10-13-88, § 5)
Section 27-4. Authority to treat or remove trees on private property.
(a)   The City Manager may cause or order the removal of any tree or part
thereof on public or private property which is in an unsafe condition, damaging
or likely to damage sewers or other public improvements facilities, or which is
infested by an injurious fungus, disease, insect or other pest.
(b)   The City Manager may cause or order necessary treatment for any tree on
public or private property which is infested by any injurious fungus, disease,
insect or other pest when they determine such action is necessary to prevent
the spread of any such injurious condition or pest and to prevent danger
therefrom to persons or property or to vegetation planted on adjacent property.
(c)   Before exercising the authority conferred by this section, the City
Manager shall order the owner or occupant of the property to take corrective
action. The order shall be in writing and shall state that the action specified
therein must be taken within ten (10) consecutive calendar days after the order
is mailed. The order shall be mailed by certified or registered mail, return
receipt requested. Failure to comply with the order of the City Manager shall
be a violation of this section. If the condition has not been corrected or if
action that would lead to a timely correction of the condition has not been
taken within the time specified above, the City Manager or their designee may
seek an injunction, order of abatement or other equitable remedy in a court of
competent jurisdiction against the property owner to ensure compliance in
accordance with NC GS 160A-175. In addition, the City may pursue any remedy as
specified in Section 1-6 of the Code of Ordinances.
Section 27-5. Appeals.
(a)   The City Manager shall notify persons who violate this Article of the
specific violations by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested.
The notice shall include the measures which will be necessary to comply with
this Article or, if compliance is not practicable, it shall specify measures to
minimize the noncompliance with this Article.
(b)     Any person who is dissatisfied with the decision of the City Manager or
their designee may appeal to the Board of Adjustment. The appeal shall be
written and filed with the City Clerk within ten (10) calendar days after the
notice is mailed. The appeal shall be governed by the same procedures as apply
to appeals from decisions of the Building Inspector, Code Enforcement Officer
or City Planner under the zoning ordinance. After a full and complete hearing,
the Board shall render a decision affirming, reversing or modifying the
decision of the City Manager, Public Works Director, Building Inspector, City
Planner or their designee in whole or in part. (Ord. of 10-13-88, § 6)
Section 27-6. Forestry Committee; responsibility.
The City of Southport Forestry Committee shall review and recommend actions to
preserve and enhance the community’s trees. The committee’s actions will
include protection of existing trees, tree replenishment, public education, and
any other function related to the community’s urban forest environment.
Section 27-7. Damage to trees.
(a)   It shall be unlawful to intentionally damage or destroy trees planted on
municipally owned or controlled property except as a part of a City-authorized
improvement program.
(b)   It shall also be a violation of this Article to attach or place any rope
or wire (other than one to support a young or broken tree), sign, poster,
handbill, or anything to any such public tree.
(c)   A person damaging a tree on public property in violation of this section
shall be liable to the City for such damage, including any loss of value. In
the event damage is so pervasive as to result in the treatment or removal of
the tree, the person damaging such tree shall also be liable for costs of
treatment or removal. Values of public trees or the amount of damages thereto
will be determined by a certified arborist retained by the City of Southport,
and can be assessed at a rate of up to $500/inch of DBH.
(d)   The monies collected for damages and loss of value will be placed in the
City of Southport Tree Mitigation Fund and are to be used solely for
restitution for damages or for other costs incurred by the City for violation
of this Section.
Section 27-8. Approved tree list.
The City shall maintain a list of approved native trees for various
applications. A copy of the approved native tree list can be obtained from the
City of Southport, Planning and Inspections Department or on the City web site.
Section 27-09. Development of annual tree program.
The City Manager, in cooperation with the Forestry Committee, shall annually
review its tree maintenance and installation needs including new projects,
pruning of existing trees and replacement of diseased or damaged trees in
conjunction with development of the City's annual budget.
Section 27-10. Community awareness.
The City shall undertake programs, as may be determined by the Forestry
Committee, Director of Tourism, and/or the Director of Parks and Recreation,
which enhance the community’s awareness of the value of trees and qualify for
points toward the Tree City, USA Growth Award. The City shall annually hold an
Arbor Day Ceremony, planned and organized by the Southport Forestry Committee,
which focuses attention on the value of trees in the urban environment, and
encourages public participation in tree planting or other activities supporting
Southport’s urban forest.
Section 27-11. Maintenance of public trees/ projects.
(a)   The Public Services department shall be responsible for the maintenance
of trees on municipal property with the advice of the City Manager or his
designee.
(b)   The City shall have the right to prune, maintain and remove any tree on
public grounds which interferes with the safe flow of traffic, any traffic
control device or sign.
(c)   It shall be unlawful for any person to top or cut back to stubs the crown
of any tree on City property or ROW.
(d)   Trees severely damaged by storms or other causes where required pruning
practices are impractical may be exempted from this section. This also includes
dead, dying, or diseased trees as determined by the City Manager or their
designee and which pose a threat to the safety of the community.
(e)    All other City departments shall cooperate fully with the City Manager
or his designee in carrying out the responsibilities of this section.
(f)    The planting, maintenance, and/or removal activities of public trees
shall meet current arboricultural practices (ANSI A300 Standards) and follow
guidelines outlined in the 2011 City of Southport Urban Forest Management Plan.
City departments, contractors, community organizations and individuals
performing tree related activities on City-managed property are required to
adhere to these standards.
Section 27-12. Hazard tree.
(a)   Every owner of any tree overhanging a street or sidewalk within the City
is responsible for pruning the branches so that such branches shall not
obstruct vehicles or pedestrians. Provided further, that all property owners
within the City are hereby required to cause the removal of any dead or
diseased trees on their property whenever such trees constitute a hazard to
life and property or harbor insects or diseases which constitute a potential
threat to other trees. Failure to take such action shall be a violation of this
section.
(b)    The City Manager or his designated representative shall give written
notice to any owner violating the terms of this section of said violation and
give said owner no less than 10 days to perform the duties in connection with
his or her property as specified in (a). If said owner or occupant shall refuse
or neglect to perform the duties hereof, the City Manager or his designee may
seek an injunction, order of abatement or other equitable remedy in a court of
competent jurisdiction against the property owner to ensure compliance in
accordance with NC GS 160A-175. In addition, the City may pursue any remedy as
specified in Section 1-6 of the Code of Ordinances.    
(c)   In case the owner(s) of any lot or other real property is unknown or
their whereabouts is not known after diligent efforts to identify and locate
said person, then a copy of the written notice herein above referred to shall
be posted upon the premises. The City Clerk shall make an affidavit setting out
the facts and circumstances justifying the posting of said property.
Section 27-13. Protection of utilities.
Public utilities shall exercise reasonable care and utilize best management
practices to avoid damage and injury to public trees during the installation
and maintenance of its facilities. The City’s Public Works Director or their
designee will provide assistance on any utility project to see that the public
utilities can be installed or repaired with minimal damage to any public tree
utilizing standards outlined in the City of Southport Urban Forest Management
Plan (2011).
Section 27-14. Notification for work near public trees.
(a)   As part of any new construction project, no person or business shall
perform any grading, excavation, place any fill, compact the soil or construct
any building structure, street, sidewalk, driveway, pavement or public utility
within twenty-five (25) feet of any public tree without first notifying and
consulting with the City Manager. Any such work shall be conducted in
accordance with this article.
(b)   Any public utility constructing or maintaining any overhead wires or
underground pipes or conduits within twenty-five (25) feet of public trees
shall consult with the Public Works Director prior to performing work which may
cause injury to public trees.
Section 27-15. Required.
No person, directly or indirectly, shall remove or cause the removal of any
tree from public property, including public rights of ways and public alleys,
without first obtaining a tree removal permit. Any development of property
intended for commercial, industrial, or residential purposes, shall require a
tree removal permit and landscape/tree plan submission as noted in section 27-
20 below.
A tree removal permit shall be required to remove any Regulated tree within any
private residential property’s front yard building setback; or a Specimen tree,
located anywhere on the property that is greater than 30” diameter breast
height (DBH) or 8’ in circumference.
A tree removal permit shall also be required for any commercial, industrial, or
residential development and will be issued as part of the Building permit and
approval process.
Section 27-16. Prerequisite for other authorizations.
   The City may withhold or withdraw any permits, certificates and other
authorizations issued or granted by the City, including but not limited to,
building permits, driveway permits and certificates of occupancy, until a tree
removal permit is obtained. A tree removal permit or exemption for permit must
be obtained before a building permit may be issued.
Section 27-17. Application.
All persons seeking a permit for removal of a Regulated tree shall make
application to the City via the tree removal permit application. The
application shall be in writing and contain the following information:
(1) Name, address of property owner of the site. Address of construction site
or site of tree removal if different than property owner's legal address, name,
address and telephone number of applicant, if contractor or agent for property
owner.
(1) Description of regulated trees to be removed, or a tree survey or plan, as
required herein, for trees to be preserved.
(2) Reason for removal request
(3) Mitigation/Replenishment plan 
Section 27-18. Tree Plan.
(a)   All new construction shall, in addition to the application for a permit
under this article, submit a tree plan containing the following information:
The shape and dimensions of the real property to be developed, together with
the existing and/or proposed locations of structures and improvements, existing
and/or proposed utility services, roadways, bikeways, walkways, and parking
areas.
The location, DBH and species of all regulated trees to be preserved.
The proposed relocation of any existing regulated tree with a statement of how
the tree is to be relocated and maintained.
The proposed tree mitigation/replenishment plan in the event that trees are to
be removed. Applicants are required to demonstrate a 40% canopy coverage on the
property at tree maturity either through tree retention or replacement. In the
event that structures and hardscape preclude meeting the 40% requirement, the
applicant must demonstrate that the dimensional standards in Article 11: Table
of Area Yard and Density preclude them from meeting the 40% requirement.
Any proposed grade changes which might adversely affect or endanger any
regulated tree to be preserved with a statement of how the tree is to be
protected and maintained.
The proposed method of protecting the remaining regulated trees during
construction, in accordance with this Article.
The tree plan shall utilize a diverse selection of trees native to the
Southport/ Brunswick County area such as live oaks, long-leaf pines, or other
approved native species. An approved list of native trees can be obtained from
the office of the City Planning and Inspections or via the City Web site. The
use of these species shall reflect the approximate percentages of these trees
species represented in the area where the site is located.
Where storm runoff ponds are required for impermeable surfaces, native wetland
tree species shall be planted around the pond.
The planting site shall be large enough to support the growth of the trees that
are chosen.
The City Manager or his designee shall review the tree survey or plan to ensure
that the plan submitted is structured in accordance with the principles
outlined above. The City Manager has the option to engage the Southport
Forestry Committee and/or certified arborist as required.
A tree removal permit must accompany any tree survey or plan submitted to the
City for approval.
Section 27-19. Criteria for issuance.
Unless the applicant for a permit under this article is engaged in new
construction, no tree removal permit shall be issued unless one (1) or more of
the following criteria are met:
(1) The regulated tree is dead, severely diseased, injured or in danger of
falling close to existing or proposed structures.
(2) The regulated tree is causing disruption of existing utility service or
causing drainage or passage problems upon the rights-of-way.
(3) The regulated tree is posing an identifiable threat to pedestrian or
vehicular safety.
(4) The applicant demonstrates that through preservation and mitigation, they
will maintain a minimum of 40% canopy coverage on the property at full tree
maturity, either through preservation of existing trees or planting of new
canopy or understory specimens. In the event that structures or hardscape on
the property precludes meeting the 40% requirement, the applicant must
demonstrate that the dimensional standards in Article 11: Table of Area Yard
and Density preclude them from meeting the 40% requirement.
(5)   The regulated tree violates state or local safety standards.
(6) Removal of the regulated tree is necessary to enhance or benefit the health
or condition of adjacent trees or property.
Section 27-20. Issuance, denial.
The City Manager or his designee shall review all properly submitted
applications for tree removal permits and shall grant or deny a permit in
accordance with the provisions of this Article within five (5) working days of
submittal. In applying the provisions of this Article, the City Manager or his
designee shall follow normal landscaping practices and may seek technical
assistance from tree professionals, as appropriate. A tree removal permit shall
be issued for an application as set forth above and shall apply to the
specifics of that request.
Section 27-21. Issuance in hardship cases.
Whenever meeting the requirements of this Article creates an irreconcilable
hardship which would clearly impede essential site improvements, tree removal
permits shall be issued.
Section 27-22. Tree Plans required.
(a)    A Tree Plan must be submitted to, reviewed, and approved by the Planning
& Inspections Department for the following actions:
Issuance of a tree removal permit;
Recording a subdivision plat or subdividing land;
Issuance of a commercial building permit for new construction or additions
(includes demolition of structures on these sites);
(b)   A Tree Plan shall be submitted with all applications for tree survey
approval and shall follow the procedures for consideration of a tree survey
pursuant to the City of Southport UDO. The Tree Plan will be considered as part
of the tree survey approval process.
(c)   For Commercial development of a property or a Residential subdivision,
the Tree Plan shall be a scaled plan not less than 1”= 30’ and shall be
prepared by a surveyor, landscape architect, engineer, or architect registered
in the State and shall provide the following information:
Property line with bearings and distances, easements, marsh and wetland
delineations and other information necessary to depict the development area;
All existing and proposed buildings, paving, infrastructure, and utilities;
All preserved trees which meet the criteria of Regulated trees located on the
site indicating the diameter, species, and the critical root zone for each
preserved tree;
All trees which meet the criteria of Regulated trees located on the site
proposed to be removed, including species and size;
All proposed newly planted trees indicating the caliper, height and species;
Tree protection zones, protective fencing details, and tree wall and/or tree
well details;
Maintenance plan identifying the methods to ensure the viability of all trees
and the party responsible for continuing maintenance;
Listing of total number of trees to be removed and planted by species;
Seal of the design professional with signature and date.
(d)   For single-lot residential construction or for a private homeowner, the
Tree Plan to be submitted as part of the permitting process will include a
rendering or copy of an existing plat or survey of the property indicating the
location of those Regulated trees proposed to be removed, as well as any trees
proposed to be planted as mitigation (if applicable).
(e)   Distance from utilities. Any tree required by this section which is
placed within 20 feet lateral distance from the centerline of an above ground
electric utility line (the line connecting pole centers) should have a maximum
expected maturity height as follows:
(1) Zero to ten feet lateral distance of the centerline, 15-foot maximum
expected maturity height; and
(2) Greater than ten feet and up to 20 feet lateral distance of the centerline,
25-foot maximum expected maturity height. Outside such 20 feet lateral
distance, trees should be placed in the most feasible manner to avoid future
conflict with aboveground electric utilities and violations of the National
Electric Safety Code, and to avoid conflict with any belowground utilities and
drainage facilities. Variations to such distance requirements may be made with
the approval of the Public Works Director. 
Section 27-23. Tree Plan review.
(a)   The Tree Plan will be reviewed by the City Manager or his designee for
compliance with the requirements and guidelines provided herein.
(b)   Plan submittal, review, and approval process is mandatory for major
residential uses (multiple-family dwellings, townhouses, and condominiums),
institutional uses, commercial uses, planned unit developments and
subdivisions. No changes are to be made to the approved Tree Plan during the
construction process without receiving written consent from the Planning &
Inspections Department. Compliance with the approved Tree Plan is required
prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy or recording of a final plat
for the uses.
(c)   The developer of any project requiring compliance with this article must
meet with the City Manager to discuss tree protection and other matters
relating to this ordinance prior to beginning land disturbing activities.
Section 27-24. Tree guidelines.
Tree Plans shall comply with the following guidelines:
(a)   Preserve and protect as much wooded area on the site as is practical.
Where existing trees and shrubs are being preserved or replaced, applicants are
required to retain a minimum of 40% canopy coverage on the property at full
tree maturity, either through preservation of existing trees or planting of new
canopy or understory specimens. (Estimated canopy at maturity can be found on
the approved native tree list as noted below)
(b)   Incorporate existing vegetation, wooded areas, and specimen trees into
required buffers where possible.
(c)   Where trees are being replaced, applicants may select tree types from the
list of approved native trees, a copy of which is kept in the Planning &
Inspections Department as well as the City web site.
(d)   Alternative tree species and number of required plantings to achieve the
targeted canopy coverage can be determined by the native tree listing, which
also provides estimated tree canopy coverage at maturity.
(e)   In the event that structures or hardscape on the property precludes
meeting the 40% goal, the applicant must demonstrate that the dimensional
standards in Article 11: Table of Area Yard and Density preclude them from
meeting the 40% requirement.
For example: On a city lot measuring 75’ x 100’, the total square footage of
the lot is 7500 square feet. At a goal of 40% canopy coverage, 3000 square feet
of the lot should be covered by tree canopy at full tree (canopy and understory
tree) maturity of the planted or retained trees. The tree(s) to be planted
should be selected and their full maturity estimated canopy coverage should be
3000 square feet or greater.
Section 27-25. Tree preservation.
A major objective of this article is to encourage the preservation of existing
vegetation wherever possible while allowing quality development to take place.
As a result, the following measures shall be required for preserved trees on
proposed subdivisions, planned unit developments, multifamily developments, and
all industrial and commercial projects during the construction process.
Protective fencing not less than four (4) feet high or other construction
barrier shall be placed at and completely encompass the critical root zone of
all preserved trees.
Any tree whose critical root zone will be affected by soil removal shall have
roots cut clearly by trenching at a point at least one (1) foot outside the
construction barrier installed as required above.
The following shall be prohibited within the critical root zone of any
preserved tree, except as may be necessary when constructing, repairing or
replacing public utilities:
Grading and excavation which involves cutting or filling to a depth of more
than 3 inches.
Pouring of any material onto ground which is toxic to plants.
Installing, depositing, placing, storing, or maintaining any stone, brick,
sand, concrete or other materials which may impede the free unobstructed growth
of or passage of water, air, and fertilizer to the roots.
No storing of any construction materials within the critical root zones of the
preserved trees.
Attaching any sign, poster, notice or other object, or fastening any guy wire,
cable, rope, nail, screw, or other device to any preserved tree for any reason
other than that of a protective nature to the tree.
Causing or encouraging any fire or burning of any kind near or around any tree.
(7)   Parking or operating construction or passenger vehicles of any type
within the critical root zone of any tree.
Section 27-26. Landscaping maintenance for projects other than individual
single family residential.
The owner of the property on which the landscaping improvements (as defined in
Section 18-4 of the UDO) are located shall be responsible for the maintenance
of landscape improvements and other requirements of this article. The
requirements of this article shall be maintained according to the following:
(a)   All landscaping shall be maintained in a neat and orderly manner.
(b)   Preserved trees or Introduced trees which die within five years from the
date of completed construction shall be replaced by the owner thereof
(including any homeowners association owning said property) with approved
plants within twelve months of loss. In the event that the owner fails to
replace said Preserved Tree within said time, the City shall notify the owner
in writing who shall thenhave 30 days from written notification from the City
to replace said tree, Upon failure to replace said tree after written
notification, the City may replace said tree and the owner shall be responsible
for the cost thereof which shall be paid into the Tree Mitigation Fund. The
funds will be utilized specifically to replant, maintain, or improve the
overall health of the City’s urban forest.
(c)   Broken irrigation lines or heads shall be replaced within 15 days to
ensure adequate irrigation and prevent waste of water.
(d)   Fencing, permeable paving and other non-plant landscaping improvements
shall be maintained in as close to installation conditions as possible.
Section 27-27. Enforcement; penalties for violations of Article.
Any violation of the terms of this Article shall constitute a misdemeanor
pursuant to N.C.G.S 14-4 with a maximum fine of $500. In addition to
constituting a misdemeanor, violation of this Article shall subject the
offender to a civil penalty to be recovered by the City in a civil action in
the nature of debt if the civil penalty is not paid by the offender within 96
hours of being cited for the violation. The civil penalty for violation of this
Article shall be $100 except for a violation of Section 27-7(a) which shall be
$ 500.
5.   Consideration of Consulting Services by McAdams & Associates, LLC
Associated with the Expansion of the Brunswick County Wastewater Treatment
Plant
   City Manager Oakley asked the Board for approval for staff to enter into an
agreement with McAdams & Associates, LLC to administer and have oversight of
loans, grants and construction of the Brunswick County Wastewater Treatment
Plant expansion. (Agreement on file in the Clerk’s office)
   Alderman Pukenas motioned, second by Alderman Powell to approve the
agreement. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
PROJECT REPORT (complete report on file in the (Clerk’s office)
   City Manager Oakley reported that the engineering report for the Brunswick
County Wastewater Treatment Plant Expansion had been completed and submitted to
the State. He noted that the City Dock project is on hold pending multi-agency
approvals and the City is still shooting for dredging to take place in October.
City Manager Oakley reported that ABC gross profits were up 12.65% for 2017
with revenue of $295,000.
STAFF REPORTS – Provided in Agenda Packet
BOARD COMMENTS
   Alderman Spencer expressed condolences for the passing of John Henry
Johnson, former Southport firefighter.
   Alderman Spencer reported that the Building Committee; himself, Aldermen
Sharkey and Coring, had toured city facilities. He emphasized developing a plan
of disposal for files and other items stored in the former City Hall and in the
Old Jail on Rhett Street.
   Alderman Sharkey congratulated the members of the Fire Department for 125
years of service.
   Alderman Sharkey acknowledged the Public Works Department for their work on
the brick walkway at Fort Johnston.
Adjournment
   Alderman Powell motioned to adjourn the meeting, second by Alderman Coring.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
                  /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
APRIL 4, 2018
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN   Special Meeting Minutes
                   April 4, 2018
1011 N. Howe StreSOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
Special Meeting Minutes
PRESENT:    Mayor J.V. Dove
      Aldermen Todd Coring, Jim Powell, Karen Mosteller, Lora Sharkey,
Marc Spencer, and Rick Pukenas.
STAFF PRESENT:  Bruce Oakley, City Manager
      Heather Hemphill Parks & Recreation Director
      Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
      Thomas Lloyd, City Planner
      Tanya Shannon, Deputy Clerk
(A) Call to Order: 
Mayor J.V. Dove called the meeting to order at 6:00pm.
(B) The Invocation was led by Alderman Coring.
(C) The Pledge of Allegiance was recited.
(D) Approval of Agenda: Discussion of City Options for City Dock
Motion by Alderman Powell, second Alderman Sharkey. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
(E) Public Comment: 
Bill Thorpe, 421 Cades Trail, expressed support for a floating dock at the
City Boat Dock.
The purpose of this meeting was for the discussion of options for getting the City Dock back into
a safe, accessible, and functional state after it was damaged from hurricane Matthew.
City Manager, Bruce Oakley recommended the City proceed with the application for the variance
to get the process started.  Mr. Oakley said the City has $127,000 ofFEMA
money, which is
recommended to use for construction of a floating dock instead of a fixed dock.
The options would be to partner with Southport Marina, or for the City to
facilitate and manage the demolition, plans, and construction on its own.
If the City decides to partner with the Marina, of the 50 boat slips, 30 would go to the City, and
20 to the Marina. These slips generate approximately $18,000-20,000
 per year. A Letter of Intent
was submitted by Southport Marina to help start the process of a possible partnership.
Hank Whitley, General Manager of Southport Marina, was in 
attendance to answer any questions.
He stated that there are benefits to partnering with the Marina, such as a proposed boardwalk,
restrooms, parking, and other amenities that Southport Marina has to offer.
Alderman Powell pointed out that since negotiations have been discussed with NCDOT and the
ferry system about dredging, the balance of what the Marina and the City offer are becoming
more equal.
Alderman Spencer would like to ensure that those who have already been renting would get first
choice of slips when construction is complete.
Alderman Coring asked how much it would cost the City to rebuild the
docks. Parks and
Recreation Director Heather Hemphill said that an estimate of $256,000 was given to replace
with a floating dock, and this does not include permit fees or dredging. She said the City charges
$75.00 per month for each slip. The slips will most likely to have increase to accommodate the
cost of maintenance and repairs.
Mr. Whitley said the Marina charges $8.25 per foot a month, with a twelve month rental
agreement. Alderman Spencer noted that would be a significant increase from the current City
rates.
A citizen asked about non motorized boats, such as kayaks, and how they will be able to
access
the water. Mr. Whitley said the Marina was open to suggestions and would like to provide a
launch area for non motorized boats.
Alderman Mosteller said she would like to understand the benefits to the City if a partnership
with the Marina was agreed on.
 She stated that the City could get a loan for the additional money
needed for repairs, versus paying the Marina back for monies fronted.
Alderman Sharkey asked Mr. Whitley how the Marina would benefit from partnering with the
City.
Mr. Whitley said that other than the beautification to the area with a proposed Boardwalk,
the Marina would be able to initiate the project immediately with their money, and then a shared
revenue later.
Mayor Dove expressed concerns he had heard from the citizens of Southport, i.e. parking at the
Marina, and discounts for the usage of the boat ramps for residents. Mr. Whitley said that the
Marina would be open to discussion on passes or discounts for residents and that parking would
be available.
City Manager Oakley recommended that the Board proceed with the Letter of Intent with the
Marina. This would not bind the City into an agreement, but continue the discussion and options
the City has before a final decision is made.
Therefore, with no other business to discuss Mayor Dove asked for a motion to close the
meeting.
Motion
 by Alderman Powell, second by Alderman Pukenas. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Meeting adjourned at 7:10  pm.
J.V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: Tanya Shannon, Deputy Clerk
APRIL 12, 2018
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING APRIL 12, 2018
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Todd Coring, Karen Mosteller, Jim Powell, Lora Sharkey,
Rick Pukenas, Marc Spencer
STAFF PRESENT:      Bruce Oakley, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
   David Fox, Public Works Director
   Gary Smith, Police Chief
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
   Randy Jones, Tourism Director
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   Thomas Lloyd, Planner
   Ellie Pittenger, Electrical Superintendent
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Dove called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Mosteller welcomed everyone and Reverend Patricia Smith, St. James AME
Zion Church, gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Mosteller led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Public Comment
   Ms. Roxi Smith, 209 E. Moore Street, spoke about feeding birds and their
droppings on Waterfront Park tables and benches. She stated that feeding the
birds is not good for the birds and the droppings make for an unhealthy
environment. She recommended a solution of peer monitoring, posting of small
“do not feed the birds” signs, and rental agencies advising visitors.
   Mr. Nick Kern, 415 Burrington Avenue, stated concerns about damaged curb and
gutter from new construction in the Jonas Creek Subdivision.
   Mr. Fred Fiss, 216 N. Atlantic Avenue, talked about the City Dock and
preserving it for all Southport citizens. He emphasized using caution if
entering into a partnership with Southport Marina.
   Mr. Tim Terman, 503 Lord Thomas Avenue, spoke in opposition to a potential
City of Southport and Southport Marina partnership to rebuild the City Dock in
the Yacht Basin. He expressed concerns about the environmental impact to the
marsh.
   Mr. Woody Wilson, 502 W. Brunswick Street, stated appreciation to the
Aldermen for addressing the situation with the City Dock and he encouraged the
Aldermen to adopt a mission statement and plan that is supported by the
majority of the city’s population. He urged the Board to keep in mind the
current lack of parking on Brunswick Street and where people would park if
additional boat slips were constructed.
   Ms. Bonnie Thomas, 5122 Prices Creek, speaking on behalf of the Southport
Woman’s Club, thanked the Board for their continued support.
   Mr. Royce Potter, 112 Frink Drive, owner of Potter Seafood in the Yacht
Basin, spoke about the City Dock and a potential partnership between the City
and Southport Marina. He spoke from a mariner’s point of view stating that
putting additional boat slips in the basin will create maneuverability
problems. He pointed out that the area is susceptible to pronounced shoaling
and boat slips along the point would end up in disrepair.
E)   Approval of Agenda
   Mayor Dove asked for additions to the Consent Agenda:
      Utility Relocation Agreement with NCDOT
      Resolution for Financing Construction of a Wastewater Treatment Works
Project
     Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Sharkey to approve the Agenda
as amended. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Dove stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
F)   Announcements
   Mayor Dove announced that a Kids Art Festival would be held in Franklin
Square Park, Saturday, April 14, 11:00 – 3:00.
   Mayor Dove announced that Quinton McCracken Day would be observed on
Saturday, April 28, 1:30 – 4:30 on the Fort Johnston Garrison Lawn.
   Mayor Dove announced that St. Philips Episcopal Church is celebrating 250
years with three (3) days of events in May.
   Mayor Dove expressed condolences and sent prayers to the families of Harriet
St. George and Wayne “Rabbit” Ludlum.
   Alderman Mosteller announced that 150 volunteers participated in the annual
Southport Day of Service held March 17.
   Alderman Mosteller announced that Arbor Day would be celebrated Friday,
April 27, 11:00 a.m. in Keziah Park.
   Alderman Pukenas reported that he, the City Planner and City Manager had
attended a Land Use Plan meeting at Military Ocean Terminal Sunny Point.
   Alderman Pukenas announced that Free Dump Week would be held April 16
through 21 with collection at the former Stevens Park location.
   Alderman Pukenas encouraged people to visit the Maritime Museum at
Southport. He also announced that the Old Jail was open for tours on Wednesday
and Saturday.
   Alderman Sharkey announced that Earth Day is being observed on April 22 with
a documentary “A Plastic Ocean” showing on Oak Island April 19. She also
announced that NatureFest would be held Saturday, April 28 with several free
activities, speakers and a plant sale.
   The Board recognized and thanked Yvonne Moody for providing beverage
tumblers to each member so plastic water bottles would not be used during Board
meetings.
   Alderman Mosteller gave an update on the status of the Animal Control
Committee. She stated the committee was reviewing ordinances across the State
and had created a working document that was being vetted by the School of
Government. She stated her hopes to craft updates to the current ordinance that
reflects Southport’s values. She announced that the next Animal Control
Committee meeting would be held Monday, April 30, 5:00 p.m. at the Fire
Department Substation, 111 E. Nash Street.
   Alderman Mosteller reported that four (4) Requests for Qualifications (RFQs)
had been received for updating the Unified Development Ordinance (UDO). She
stated the RFQs would be reviewed and a company selected for that endeavor.
G)   Special Recognition
   Mayor Dove read the Arbor Day Proclamation into the record.
   
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1979_1366x1395.jpg]
 
WHEREAS, in 1872, J. Sterling Morton proposed to the Nebraska Board of
Agriculture that a special day be set aside for the planting of trees, and
WHEREAS, this holiday called Arbor Day, was first observed with the planting of
more than a million trees in Nebraska, and
WHEREAS, Arbor Day is now observed throughout the nation and the world, and
WHEREAS, trees can reduce the erosion of our precious topsoil by wind and
water, cut heating and cooling costs, moderate the temperature, clean the air,
produce life-giving oxygen, and provide habitat for wildlife, and
WHEREAS, trees are a renewable resource giving us paper, wood for our homes,
fuel for our fires, and beautify our community, and
WHEREAS, trees in our city increase property values, enhance the economic
vitality of business areas, and beautify our community, and
WHEREAS, trees in our city are a great source of joy and spiritual renewal.
NOW, THEREFORE, I J. V. Dove, Mayor of the City of Southport, NC, and the Board
of Aldermen, do hereby proclaim April 27, 2018 as ARBOR DAY in the City and
urge all citizens to celebrate and support efforts to protect our trees and
woodlands, and
FURTHER, I urge all citizens to plant trees to gladden the heart and promote
the well-being of this and future generations.
DATED, this 12th day of April, 2018.            City of Southport
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
   The Board recognized the 1st Southport Tree Champion Award recipient, David
and Kathy Mock, 605 N. Atlantic Avenue for their stewardship of the trees on
their property during a recent renovation. They were presented with a framed
award printed on paper hand made by Lisa Richey, a Lake Waccamaw artist.
Southport Tree Champion
The Southport Forestry Committee and the City of Southport recognize David and
Kathy Mock for your efforts to preserve our city’s Urban Maritime Forest at 605
N. Atlantic Avenue
You have demonstrated a commitment to maintain as many trees as possible to
support the canopy that beautifies and protects our community.
This date April 12th, 2018
Signed
Scott Len Forestry Committee Chair
JV Dove Mayor
   Mayor Dove read the Proclamation recognizing the 250th Anniversary of Saint
Philip’s Church into the record and presented it to Mr. Geoff Gersen.
PROCLAMATION
WHEREAS, May 24, 2018 marks the 250th Anniversary of the consecration of Saint
Philip=s Church at The Brunswick Town State Historic Site; and
WHEREAS, Saint Philip=s Church in Southport is the daughter church of that
historic parish; and
WHEREAS, The Southport church and the Brunswick Town Historic Site are planning
a grand celebration of the consecration; and
WHEREAS, the festivities will include exhibits and other activities marking the
250th anniversary;
WHEREAS, a service will be held in the Brunswick Town church followed by a
reception in the on-site visitor=s center; and
WHEREAS, an evening prayer service will be held at the Southport church
preceded by several presentations on the Brunswick Town church and how it led
to the Southport parish; and
WHEREAS, for the past 250 years the mission and activities of St. Philip=s
Episcopal Church have been maintained by its committed and dedicated members;
and
WHEREAS, it is an honor and privilege to extend this expression of esteem and
best wishes to the Priest and members of St. Philip=s Episcopal Church on such
a memorable occasion for their dedication and spiritual service to the citizens
of Southport.
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as Mayor of the City of
Southport, I hereby proclaim May 24, 2018 as St. Philip=s Episcopal Church
250th Anniversary Day in the City of Southport, North Carolina; and
FURTHER, that a copy of this Proclamation is presented to the Priest and
congregation in testimony of the high regard in which this Church and its
members are held in the City of Southport and wish God=s continued blessings
upon you.
This 12th day of April, 2018.               /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
   Mayor Dove read the Resolution recognizing the Southport Woman’s Club into
the record and presented it to Ms. Bonnie Thomas.
Resolution
Southport Woman’s Club
WHEREAS, the Southport Civic Club, led by Mrs. C. Ed (Jessie) Taylor was
established in 1909; and
WHEREAS, the Southport Civic Club was later called the Southport Woman’s Club
and Miss Kate Stuart served as the first president; and
WHEREAS, the Southport Woman’s Club is a community services, non-profit,
philanthropic organization of women volunteers with a broad spectrum of life
experiences who work together on common interests; and
WHEREAS, the Southport Woman’s Club serves the community with programs and
fund-raising activities that promote the arts, education & literacy, encourage
civic involvement and address social issues that affect the community; and
WHEREAS, the Southport Woman’s Club participates in “Keep America Beautiful”
programs, awards the Sallie Southall Cotten Scholarship to a South Brunswick
High School student, funds scholarships to Brunswick Community College
Foundation of Nursing, assists families with a Special Needs Child, provides
school supplies to local schools, donates time in classroom and school
activities, and acts as test proctors and mentors; and
WHEREAS, the Southport Woman’s Club donates and provides support to the NC Boys
and Girls Home, Providence Home, New Hope Medical Clinic, Hope Harbor Home,
Human Needs Food Pantry and others; and
NOW THEREFORE, I, J. V. Dove, Mayor of the City of Southport, NC and the Board
of Aldermen, recognize the Southport Woman’s Club who for 109 years have
dedicated their time to the betterment of our community and aiding those in
need.
ADOPTED, this 12th day of April 2018 by the Southport Board of Aldermen.
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor      
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
   Alderman Pukenas motioned, second by Alderman Spencer to adopt the Arbor Day
and St. Philips Episcopal Church Proclamations and Resolution in recognition of
the Southport Woman’s Club.  Unanimous vote; motion carried.
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Sharkey to approve the consent
agenda as previously amended and to make item 5 conditional on posting of
maintenance bond.   Unanimous vote; motion carried.   
1.   Minutes for March 8, 2018 Regular Meeting– approved
2.   Friends of the North Carolina Maritime Museum at Southport Fundraiser on
the Garrison    Lawn    approved
3.   Street Closure; Quinton McCracken Day April 28 – approved
4.   Resolution Authorizing Sale of Surplus Property Using the Sell by Private
Sale Process –    approved
5.   Infrastructure Acceptance; Jonas Creek Phase 2B – Wild Rose Way – approved
6.   Resolution Authorizing the City Manager to Enter Into Certain Contracts on
Behalf of the    City - approved
7.   Interlocal Agreement; Bald Head Island Transportation Authority – approved
8.   Utility Relocation Agreement with NCDOT – approved (Agreement on file in
the Clerk’s office)
9.   Resolution for Financing Construction of a Wastewater Treatment Works
Project –  approved
RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING SALE OF SURPLUS PROPERTY BY PRIVATE NEGOTIATION AND SALE
WHEREAS, the City of Southport owns equipment that has become surplus for its
current needs; and
WHEREAS, all of said property is valued at less than $ 30,000.00 or one item or
group of items; and
WHEREAS, North Carolina General Statute § 160A-266 permits the city to sell
such property by private sale, upon authorization by the Board of Aldermen at a
regular meeting and notice to the public; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen is convened in a regular meeting;
NOW THEREFORE, THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN OF THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT RESOLVES THAT:
The Board of Aldermen authorizes the City Manager to sell by private sale the
following items of surplus property:
2008 Ford F-250 SD 5.4 L VIN # 1FTNF20548EA01971 Mileage: 113,694
Motor has no compression
2002 Ford F-250 SD 5.4 L VIN # 1FTNF20L82EA51987 MILEAGE: 124,241
Motor as 5 Heli Coil Plugs
Dog Box
58 3/8 “ wide. 71 ½ “ long. 38 ¾ “ deep including legs. Truck Bed is the
bottom.
1981 Ford E-350 Van Mileage: 32,681
Hunter System 700 Tire Balancer
5 ft x 8 ft Lowes Utility Trailer Rusted
5 ft by 8 ft Lowes Utility Trailer Rusted
10 ft by 77 inch 1996 Carson Trailer
5 ft by 10 ft blue trailer with hand wench Rusted
1992 Case Backhoe 580 7628 hours of use
Kobalt Aluminum Toolbox 21 inches wide, 70 inches long, 15 inches deep
GeneracNP-65G Generator 6.5 kw 6.5 kva 120 volt model # 9011-1, serial # 954798
Lincoln Chassis Lubrigun Air powered grease gun
Coats 4050a Tire Machine Serial #: 0609102064, pn # 8028717
3 inch Homelite Trash Pump Model 12oTp3-1B Serial # 31741821 Briggs & Stratton
8 hp
3 inch Homelite Trash Pump Model 12oTp3-1C Serial # HJ1440175 Briggs & St
ratton 8 hp
The City Clerk shall publish a notice summarizing this resolution and no sale
may be executed pursuant to this resolution until at least 10 days after the
date that the notice is published.
DATED, this 12th day of April, 2018
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE CITY MANAGER TO ENTER INTO CERTAIN CONTRACTS ON
BEHALF OF THE CITY
THAT WHEREAS, for the efficient operation of the city government, from time to
time it is necessary or expedient for the City to approve and execute certain
contracts and/or authorize certain expenditures prior to the next meeting of
the Board of Aldermen; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen declares that it is in the best interest of the
City to give the City Manager the authority to enter into these contracts on
behalf of the City as allowed by law without specific board approval when the
funds have been previously budgeted by the Board of Aldermen;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport as follows:
The City Manager is hereby authorized to execute and enter into contracts on
behalf of the City for the purchase of equipment, apparatus or supplies in an
amount not to exceed $ 30,000 without further Board approval, unless required
by law, provided that the funds have been previously budgeted by the Board of
Aldermen.
The City Manager is hereby authorized to execute and enter into contracts on
behalf of the City for construction, repair work or maintenance in an amount
not to exceed $ 50,000 without further board approval, unless required by law,
provided that the funds have been previously budgeted by the Board of Aldermen.
The City Manager is hereby authorized to execute and enter into contracts on
behalf of the City for services, including professional services, in an amount
not to exceed $ 30,000 without further board approval, unless required by law,
provided that the funds have been previously budgeted by the Board of Aldermen.
That the City Manager shall report to the Board of Aldermen the terms and
conditions of any contract entered into pursuant to this resolution at the next
regular meeting of the Board of Aldermen.
   Adopted this 12th day of April, 2018.      City of Southport
                        BY: /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor   
      ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
                   
INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT BETWEEN CITY OF SOUTHPORT AND BALD HEAD ISLAND
TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY
This Interlocal Agreement (“Agreement”), is entered into this 12th day of
April, 2018 (“Effective Date”), pursuant to the provisions of Article 20 of
Chapter 160A of the North Carolina General Statutes, by and between the CITY OF
SOUTHPORT, a municipal corporation of the State of North Carolina (“City”) and
the BALD HEAD ISLAND TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY, a public body corporate and
politic of the State of North Carolina (“Authority”).
RECITALS:
WHEREAS, the City is a municipal corporation of the State of North Carolina;
WHEREAS, Authority is a public body corporate and politic, established pursuant
to Article 29 of Chapter 160A of the North Carolina General Statutes (“the
Act”);
WHEREAS, N.C. Gen. Stat. § 160A-461 provides that a unit of government may
enter into an agreement whereby one unit provides services to other units;
WHEREAS, the purpose of the Authority is to acquire and operate, within its
service area as defined by N.C. Gen. Stat. § 160A-682, a ferry transportation
system consisting of real and personal property, structures, improvements,
buildings, equipment, maritime vessels, vehicles, vehicle parking, trams,
shuttle buses, docks, terminals and other facilities necessary for the
maintenance and operation of a ferry transportation service (the “System”);
WHEREAS, the mainland terminal for the System is located in the City, and the
City has appointed one member to the Board of Trustees of the Authority
pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 160A-684(b)(5);
WHEREAS, the Act authorizes the Authority to issue revenue bonds and bond
anticipation notes under the Local Government Revenue Bond Act, Articles 5 and
9 of Chapter 159 of the North Carolina General Statutes (“Indebtedness”) for
the purpose of acquiring, constructing and improving the System;
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Act, the Authority is directed to acquire and operate
the System, and requires office space and administrative support to operate
until such time as the Authority has completed the acquisition and is operating
the System (such period, the “Start-Up Period”);
WHEREAS, to assist the Authority during the Start-Up Period, the City desires
to lease to the Authority certain office space located in Southport City Hall,
located at 1029 North Howe Street in the City;
WHEREAS, the City also desires to provide to the Authority certain
administrative support services during the Start-Up Period, and the Authority
desires to contract with the City for the provision of these services; and
WHEREAS, the Authority desires to pay the City for such leased office space and
administrative services provided during the Start-Up Period.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and promises contained
herein, the City and the Authority agree as follows:
Lease of Office Space
Lease. The City hereby leases to the Authority certain office space in the
Southport City Hall, located at 1029 North Howe, Southport, NC 28461, more
particularly described in Exhibit A to this Agreement (the “Premises”).
Term of Lease. The term of the lease shall begin on the Effective Date and
shall continue until the expiration of the Start-Up Period or the second
anniversary of the Effective Date, whichever occurs earlier (the “Lease Term”).
Rent. In consideration for the City’s lease of the Premises during the Lease
Term, the Authority shall pay to the City as rent the sum of Ten Dollars
($10.00) per year. Such payment shall be due in arrears at the expiration of
the Lease Term.
Permitted Use and Access to the Premises. The Authority shall use the Premises
for recordkeeping, administrative support, and other tasks related to the
purposes of the Authority as set forth in the Act. The City shall permit
members of the Board of Trustees of the Authority and representatives of the
Authority to access the Premises during the normal operating hours of the City
government. The City acknowledges that the Authority may hold certain
confidential and sensitive records at Premises that constitute trade secrets
exempt from public disclosure under N.C. Gen. Stat. § 132-1.2, and the City
shall take reasonable measures to prevent unauthorized access to the Premises
by members of the public and City employees or contractors not engaged in
providing administrative support to the Authority under Article II of this
Agreement.
Termination of Lease.  Either party may terminate the lease at any time upon
ninety (90) days’ prior written notice to the other party. Any termination of
the lease under this Section 1.05 shall not affect the parties’ obligations
under the other sections of this Agreement.
Administrative Support
Administrative Services. During the Start-Up Period, unless sooner terminated
as provided for herein, the City shall, upon the Authority’s request, to
provide to the Authority certain administrative support services described in
Exhibit B to this Agreement (the “Support Services”). The City may, upon the
request of the Authority, provide services other than the Support Services to
the Authority if the City and the Authority agree upon the terms of service to
be provided in a separate writing signed by both parties. Following the
expiration of the Start-Up Period, the City may, upon request of the Authority,
continue to provide Support Services to the Authority; provided, however, that
the City shall have no obligation to provide Support Services to the Authority
following the expiration of the Start-Up Period.
Payment for Services.  City staff that provide Support Services to the
Authority under Section 2.01 of this Agreement shall record time spent and
associated expenses incurred in rendering services to the Authority on a
monthly basis. During the term of this Agreement, the City shall submit
quarterly reports to the Authority reflecting such time spent and expenses
incurred. Within ninety (90) days of the expiration of the Start-Up Period, the
Authority shall pay the City for the costs and expenses reflected on such
reports, at the rates reflected in Exhibit B.  
Term and Termination; Amendment
Term and Termination.  This Agreement shall commence on the Effective Date and
continue until the expiration of the Start-Up Period, unless sooner terminated
herein; provided, however, if the City continues to provide Support Services to
the Authority after the expiration of the Start-Up Period under Section 2.01 of
this Agreement, this Agreement shall continue for successive terms of ninety
(90) days. Either party may terminate this Agreement at any time upon ninety
(90) days’ prior written notice. Upon termination of this Agreement, the City
shall immediately return to the Authority all books and records of the
Authority in its custody.
Amendment. Any amendment to this Agreement must be in writing, authorized by
the Board of Trustees of the Authority, and signed by authorized persons on
behalf of the City and the Authority.
Miscellaneous
Notices. All demands, notices, approvals, consents, requests, opinions and
other communications hereunder shall be in writing and delivered in person or
mailed by first class to
City:
   1029 N. Howe Street, Suite 100
   Southport, NC 28461
   Attn: City Manager
with a copy to City Attorney
   Michael R. Isenberg, Esq.
   P.O. Box 11028
   Southport, NC 28461
Authority:
1029 N. Howe Street, Suite “Authority Office”
Southport, NC 28461
Attention: Susan Rabon, Chair
with a copy to Authority Attorney
   McGuireWoods LLP
   300 N. Third Street, Suite 320
   Wilmington, NC 28401
   Attention: Henry L. Kitchin, Jr.
Entire Agreement. This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and
constitutes the entire agreement between the City and the Authority.
Assignment. Except as may otherwise be expressly provided herein, no party may
assign any right, obligation, or liability arising hereunder without the other
party’s prior written consent. Any such assignment or attempted assignment
shall be null and void.
Severability. If any of the provisions of this Agreement shall be held by a
court of competent jurisdiction to be unconstitutional or unenforceable, the
decision of such court shall not affect or impair any of the remaining
provisions of this Agreement, and the parties shall, to the extent they deem to
be appropriate, take such actions as are necessary to correct any such
unconstitutional or unenforceable provision. It is hereby declared to be the
intent of the parties to this Agreement that this Agreement would have been
approved and executed had such an unconstitutional or unenforceable provision
been excluded therefrom.
Governing Law; Venue. This Agreement shall be construed in accordance with and
governed by the laws of the State of North Carolina. Venue for any action
between the parties, whether at law or in equity, shall be in a court of
competent jurisdiction for Brunswick County, North Carolina.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement has been executed the day and year first
above written pursuant to the resolutions duly adopted by the governing boards
of the City and the Authority.
CITY OF SOUTHPORT         BALD HEAD ISLAND TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY
By:   /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor         By:    /s/ Susan Rabon, Chair
Attest:   /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk         Attest:   /s/ Landon Zimmer,
Secretary
This instrument has been pre-audited in the manner required by the Local
Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act.
/s/ Melanie Trexler, City of Southport Finance Officer
This instrument has been pre-audited in the manner required by the Local
Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act.
____________________________   
Authority Treasurer
Exhibit A
Description of Premises
“Authority Office” at the Southport City Hall, located at 1029 North Howe
Street, Southport, NC 28405, as shown below.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1988_9327x4110.jpg]
Exhibit B
Support Services
 
Service                                   City Employee(s) Involved Hourly Rate
Preparation, posting, and mailing of
public notices of meetings of the         Michele Windham           $30.00
Authority
Maintenance, filing, and storage of
minutes and official records of the       Michele Windham           $30.00
meetings of the Board of Trustees of the
Authority
Functions of Assistant Secretary of the
Board, including maintaining audio and/or
video recordings (if any) of meetings
preparation and revising of drafts of     Michele Windham           $30.00
Board meeting minutes, preparation (with
guidance from Board) of proposed agendas
and distribution of same to Board members
prior to Board meetings
Other functions on an as-needed basis to
the extent expressly agreed to by both    Michele Windham           $30.00
the City and the Authority
 
RESOLUTION BY GOVERNING BODY OF APPLICANT
WHEREAS,   The Federal Clean Water Act Amendments of 1987 and the North
Carolina Water Infrastructure Act of 2005 (NCGS 159G) have authorized the
making of loans and grants to aid eligible units of government in financing the
cost of a wastewater collection system project, and
WHEREAS,   The City of Southport has need for and intends to construct a
wastewater treatment works project described as a new wastewater treatment
plant, and
WHEREAS,   The City of Southport intends to request state loan and grant (if
available) assistance for the project,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, BY THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN OF THE CITY OF
SOUTHPORT:
That the City of Southport, the Applicant, will arrange financing for all
remaining costs of the project, if approved for a State (loan or grant) award.
That the Applicant will adopt and place into effect on or before completion of
the project a schedule of fees and charges and other available funds which will
provide adequate funds for proper operation, maintenance, and administration of
the system and the repayment of all principal and interest on the debt.
That the governing body of the Applicant agrees to include in the loan
agreement a provision authorizing the State Treasurer, upon failure of the City
of Southport to make scheduled repayment of the loan, to withhold from the City
of Southport any State funds that would otherwise be distributed to the local
government unit in an amount sufficient to pay all sums then due and payable to
the State as a repayment of the loan.
That the Applicant will provide for efficient operation and maintenance of the
project on completion of construction thereof.
That Bruce Oakley, City Manager, the Authorized Official, and successors so
titled, is hereby authorized to execute and file an application on behalf of
the Applicant with the State of North Carolina for a (loan or grant) to aid in
the construction of the project described above.
That the Authorized Official, and successors so titled, is hereby authorized
and directed to furnish such information as the appropriate State agency may
request in connection with such application or the project: to make the
assurances as contained above; and to execute such other documents as may be
required in connection with the application.
That the Applicant has substantially complied or will substantially comply with
all Federal, State, and local laws, rules, regulations, and ordinances
applicable to the project and to Federal and State grants and loans pertaining
thereto.
Adopted this the 12th day of April, 2018 at Southport, North Carolina.
                           /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
      ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
AGENDA
10.   Consideration; Solid Waste Collection, Transportation and Disposal
Agreement with Waste Industries, LLC
   City Manager Oakley stated that the renewal of the contract with Waste
Industries was the same as past contracts with one change; yard waste pick-up
is not included and would be privately contracted out. He indicated he would
bring a yard waste contract to the Board for consideration at a future meeting.
   Alderman Sharkey asked if Waste Industries would provide receptacles for
recycling at those city locations that did not already have them.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to approve the Solid
Waste Collection, Transportation and Disposal Agreement with Waste Industries,
Inc. Unanimous vote; motion carried.   
11.   Consideration; Southport Marina, Inc. Letter of Intent, Southport Yacht
Basin – Dock Extension
   City Manager Oakley gave a brief status overview of the positions of various
regulatory entities regarding the rebuilding of the City Boat Dock;
Working through review with Coastal Area Management Act (CAMA) Army Corps of
Engineers will not permit removal of pilings and rebuild as is – prefers a
floating dock which CAMA has denied CAMA may grant a variance
Marsh owned by Southport Marina who would have Riparian Rights Ongoing
discussions with Southport Marina about potential partnering on the project.
   City Manager Oakley referenced the Letter of Intent (LOI) provided in the
agenda packet that sets a mutual understanding between the City of Southport
and Southport Marina with respect to the potential demolition, dredging and
reconstruction of the City Boat Dock. He emphasized that the LOI was not
binding.
   City Attorney Isenberg pointed out revisions suggested by Alderman Pukenas;
   First sentence, addition of language: “to negotiate in good faith and
agreement….”
   Item #14, Confidentiality; Exclusivity of Dealing.
       Addition of language:   “until such time as a final decision is rendered
by the                   CAMA permit and applicable government agencies”
   City Manager Oakley stated that if a partnership was made with Southport
Marina, the CAMA application would be a joint effort.
   Alderman Pukenas asked what benefits the City would get from a partnership
with Southport Marina. City Manager Oakley stated that parking and Southport
Marina amenities would be available, a walkway from the Marina to the dock
would be built and maintenance and management would be performed by Marina
staff.
   Alderman Pukenas asked why the LOI needed to be considered by the Board at
this time. City Manager Oakley stated the LOI needed to be considered due to
the schedule for dredging in November, the 90 day permitting process that CAMA
has indicated it would deny the permit, a 90 day period to apply for a CAMA
Variance and the hope to have the permit in place prior to dredging.
   City Manager Oakley pointed out that the City had received funds from FEMA,
for damages incurred during Hurricane Matthew, towards construction of a
floating dock.
   Based on feedback received from citizens, Alderman Sharkey stated her hope
that the LOI could be simplified without reference to reimbursement of cost,
income and management.    
   Alderman Powell emphasized the urgency of getting the project permitted, the
potential to lose the dredging and having to absorb the entire cost of dredging
vs. 95% of the cost being absorbed by the Corps of Engineers.
   Noting that a lot of the city’s infrastructure has fallen by the wayside and
the city is now trying to catch up, Alderman Coring expressed his opinion that
a partnership with Southport Marina could be mutually beneficial. He stated he
wants to assure continued public use of the City’s L dock and he believes a
detailed plan can be worked out.
   Acknowledging that Southport Marina has been a good corporate citizen in
Southport, Alderman Mosteller pointed out that the LOI obligates the City to
reimburse the Marina for construction of the dock, including interest; that the
Marina will manage the City Dock and when the loan is paid in full, the City
will receive 50% of the slip rental fees based on Marina rates. She stated her
opinion that the City could obtain a loan, collect rents to pay for the loan
and she asked the Board to consider creating a water infrastructure fund
dedicated for maintenance. Emphasizing that Southport is a historical
waterfront town, she stressed that the Dock belongs to the citizens of
Southport and needs to remain accessible to all citizens.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to approve the Letter of
Intent with Southport Marina.
   Discussion
   Responding to a query by Alderman Spencer, City Manager Oakley stated that
the existing structure could not be removed until the CAMA permit is in place.
   City Attorney Isenberg pointed out that approving the LOI begins
negotiations of a potential contract and the City is obligated to negotiate in
good faith.
   Alderman Spencer stated that the City needs to move forward with the LOI in
the interest of getting the Yacht Basin dredged.
   Alderman Mosteller raised concerns about filing for a CAMA permit without a
contract for reconstruction. City Manager Oakley stated that having a
construction contract had no effect on the permit.
   Alderman Pukenas emphasized LOI Item 15 which stipulates the LOI shall not
be deemed or constitute a legally binding obligation.
   Vote:   Ayes:   Aldermen Powell, Coring, Sharkey, Spencer, Pukenas
      Nay:   Alderman Mosteller
   Motion carried 5-1
12.   Consideration; Agreement with NCDOT for Ownership of Common Sewer Lines
Along NC 211 Widening Project
   Public Works Director Fox reported that staff had met with NCDOT regarding
the NC 211 widening project and the relocation of nine (9) private pump
stations. He stated that NCDOT has agreed to bear all costs of design and
relocation of the stations per the Utility Relocation Agreement approved on the
Consent Agenda. Director Fox stated the Agreement requires the City to accept
the gravity lines after completion of the NC 211 widening project.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to accept the
wastewater gravity lines per Transportation Improvement Program (TIP) R-5021,
Element #41582.2.1 after completion of the project. Unanimous vote; motion
carried.    
13.   Side by Side Utility Cart for Right-of-Way, Cemetery & Parks Maintenance
   
   Director Fox explained a request to purchase a utility cart to be used for
right-of-way, cemeteries and parks maintenance. He stated that a gasoline model
is quoted vs. electric as representatives were unable to guarantee a battery
that would last all day. He indicated that the speed limit of the vehicle would
be consistent with the Golf Cart Ordinance.
   Responding to a query from Alderman Mosteller, Director Fox stated he would
find out what the warranty period on the vehicle would be.
   Alderman Pukenas motioned, second by Alderman Sharkey to approve the
purchase. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
14.   Consideration; Mandatory Load Management Switches on New Construction
   Ellie Pittenger, Electrical Superintendent, reviewed a comparative and
factual study of the City‘s Load Management program (complete report on file in
the Clerk’s office). He emphasized that the “peak” one hour period of one day
during each month is charged at a rate of $18.80/kW and scheduled to increase
to $21.94/kW. That charge for January, 2018 was $305,780.58. Mr. Pittenger
pointed out that of 2,922 commercial and residential Southport electrical
customers, only 803 are on some form of load management. He stated his opinion
that additional participation in the program and mandatory load management
switches on new construction would greatly reduce the City’s energy charges.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to adopt an Ordinance
Amending Chapter 19, Article V, Section 19-186. Load Management.
   Discussion
   Noting that a 100% participation in load management would save a customer
32% on their energy usage, Alderman Mosteller suggested distributing an
informational flier and holding workshops to promote participation.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 19, ARTICLE V, OF THE SOUTHPORT CITY CODE
   BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport that
Chapter 19, Article V, of the Southport City Code, is hereby amended by adding
the following section:
ARTICLE V. ELECTRICAL SERVICE
Sec. 19-186.   Load Management.
(a)   The building contractor or his plumbing or electrical sub-contractor
shall place a Load Management switch purchased from the City on all Electric
water heaters 40 gallons or larger, as long as they are no more than 9kW,
installed in new residential structures before a Certificate of Occupancy is
issued.
(b)   The building contractor or his HVAC or electrical sub-contractor shall
place Load Management switches purchased from the City on all compressor and
heat strip circuits on all standard 240V Electric Heat Pumps or HVAC units
installed in new residential structures (“mini-split” heat pump units are
exempt) before a Certificate of Occupancy is issued.
   This the 12th day of April, 2018.            City of Southport
                     
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
15.   Appointment to ABC Board
   City Manager Oakley reported that the term of one ABC Board member had
expired and the individual, William Davis, holding that position had asked for
re-appointment.
   Alderman Powell nominated Mr. James Poppe.
   There being no other nominations, Alderman Powell motioned, second by
Alderman Sharkey to appoint Mr. James Poppe to the ABC Board. Unanimous vote;
motion carried.
16.   Appointments to Forestry Committee
   Alderman Mosteller motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to re-appoint Scott
Len, Clay Fairley and Fred Fiss to the Forestry Committee. Unanimous vote;
motion carried.
REPORTS FROM MANAGER
   City Manager Oakley announced that an Open House Workshop would be held
Wednesday, April 25, 4:00 – 6:00 p.m., 111 E. Nash Street to receive public
input on recreational uses for Taylor Field.
   City Manager Oakley requested $1,000 from the Board contingency fund to
fertilize the large Live Oak on the Fort Johnston Garrison lawn.
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Powell to authorize the $1,000
expenditure.
Discussion
   Alderman Mosteller indicated that an arborist had inspected the large Live
Oak at Fort Johnston and recommended an additional layer of fertilizer via
liquid injection at a cost of $1,685.    Additionally, Alderman Mosteller
pointed out that a donation had been received from the Wilson Family towards
preservation of the Indian Trail Tree in Keziah Park. She stated that an
arborist had inspected the tree and recommended feeding, composting, dead wood
prune and a liquid injection into the ground to boost its well-being. She said
that quote was $3,200, there was $750 remaining from the donation which would
cover the cost for compost and mulch. She asked for funding in the FY 2018-2019
budget to proceed with the recommended treatments for the Indian Trail Tree.  
   Alderman Coring amended his motion to include $1,000 for the Fort Johnston
tree plus $1,685 for a liquid injection treatment. Alderman Powell seconded the
motion.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.   
STAFF REPORTS
   Reports included in the agenda packet. 
BOARD COMMENTS
   Alderman Coring spoke about animal control. He stated that when matters
about animal control was first brought to the attention of the Board, his
concern was about enforcement of the City’s Ordinances and if it would be
beneficial for the City to contract with Brunswick County for that service. He
said he believes the City should have an in-house position responsible for
animal control as has been the practice in the past. He stressed removing the
current Code Enforcement Officer position from the Police Department. He
pointed out that there is an increase in call volume during the summer months
and he asked Board members for their comments.
   Aldermen Pukenas, Mosteller, Powell, Sharkey & Spencer supported Alderman
Coring’s position.
   Alderman Mosteller suggested a full time Animal Control/Code Enforcement
position report to the City Manager.
   Alderman Sharkey pointed out that the City Manager will need to determine
funding for the position and a potential holding facility.
   Alderman Spencer stated his opinion that a position should not be taken from
current Police Department staffing.
   City Manager Oakley stated he would bring a job description to the Board’s
next meeting.
   Alderman Spencer asked about removing items still remaining in the former
City Hall. City Manager Oakley indicated that the Finance Director was
researching storage facilities for files that have to be retained indefinitely.
ADJOURN  
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to adjourn the meeting.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.   
                        /s/ J.V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
MAY 10, 2018
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING MAY 10, 2018
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Karen Mosteller, Lora Sharkey, Jim Powell,
            Todd Coring, Marc Spencer, Rick Pukenas
STAFF PRESENT:      Bruce Oakley, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
   David Fox, Public Works Director
   Mike Simmons, Police Lieutenant
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
   Randy Jones, Tourism Director
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   Thomas Lloyd, Planner
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Dove called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Coring welcomed everyone and Reverend Ronnie Cox, Sunrise Baptist
Church, gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Coring led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Public Comment
   Margaret Campbell, 516 W. Brunswick Street, spoke in opposition to the
potential partnership with Southport Marina for rebuilding the City Boat Dock.
She contended the Board was moving too fast, the Yacht Basin would be forever
changed and effects to the marsh would be detrimental.
   Ms. Lowe Davis, 504 Brunswick Street, implored the Board to hold a public
hearing/question & answer session, on the potential City Boat Dock partnership
with Southport Marina. She stated there was much concern, uncertainty,
suspicion, and distrust within the community.
   Mr. Tommy Harrelson, 202 W. Bay Street, spoke about a weekly rental unit
next to his home and the associated disruptions. He cautioned the Board to be
careful if they consider permitting more short term rentals.
   Mr. Brian Stevens, 503 Cades Trail, spoke about the paddle craft community
in Southport. He pointed out that installing a paddle craft launch in the Yacht
Basin along with motor boats would be dangerous. He advocated repurposing the
former wastewater treatment plant on W. West Street for a paddle craft launch.
   Ms. Lori Sanderlin, Manager of the NC Maritime Museum at Southport,
introduced Ms. Katy Menne a graduate of the University of South Carolina with a
Masters in teaching and an undergrad in history. Ms. Menne has joined the staff
of the Museum.
   Ms. Lena Tobler, 215 W. 11th Street, Chairperson for the Memorial Day
Parade, invited everyone to participate in the Memorial Day Parade, observation
and decorated golf cart contest. She stated that the parade would start at 10:
30 a.m. at the International Longshoreman Association (ILA) Hall.
E)   Approval of Agenda
   Mayor Dove requested addition of:
   Consent Agenda #4; Resolution Supporting the Brunswick County Fire Fee Rate
Setting
   Regular Agenda #12; Appointment to ABC Board
   Regular Agenda #13; Animal Protective Services/Code Enforcement Officer
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to approve the agenda as
amended.
Discussion
   Alderman Sharkey asked to move consideration of the Resolution Supporting
the Brunswick County Fire Fee Rate Setting to the Regular Agenda.
Vote:   Aye; Aldermen Powell, Coring, Mosteller, Spencer, Pukenas
   Nay; Alderman Sharkey
   Motion Carried 5-1
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Dove stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
F)   Announcements
   Mayor Dove announced that the City would recognize Memorial Day with a
parade and an event at the Community Building in honor of WWII Veterans.
   Mayor Dove thanked the Beautification Committee for their efforts
beautifying the City.
   Alderman Mosteller announced that This is Our Town Clean Up would be held
June 2 beginning at 9:00 a.m. at the Jail Annex on Rhett Street.
   Alderman Mosteller announced that June 1, 2018 was the deadline for taking
advantage of the 50% reduction of the N.C. Homestead Act if 65 or older, own
your home, and income is less than $29,600.
   Alderman Coring echoed Mayor Dove’s appreciation to the Beautification
Committee.
G)   Special Recognition
   Alderman Coring read the National Safe Boating Week Proclamation into the
record
NATIONAL SAFE BOATING WEEK
PROCLAMATION
For nearly 90 million Americans, boating continues to be a popular recreational
activity. From coast to coast, and everywhere in between, people are taking to
the water and enjoying time together boating, sailing, paddling and fishing.
During National Safe Boating Week, the U.S. Coast Guard and its federal, state,
and local safe boating partners encourage all boaters to explore and enjoy
America’s beautiful waters responsibly.
Safe boating begins with preparation. The Coast Guard estimates that human
error accounts for 70 percent of all boating accidents and that life jacket
could prevent more than 80 percent of boating fatalities. Through basic boating
safety procedures – carrying lifesaving emergency distress and communications
equipment, wearing life jackets, attending safe boating courses, participating
in free boat safety checks, and staying sober when navigating – we can help
ensure boaters on America’s coastal, inland, and offshore waters stay safe
throughout the season.
National Safe Boating Week is observed to bring attention to important life-
saving tips for recreational boaters so that they can have a safer, more fun
experience out on the water throughout the year.
•Whereas, on average, 650 people die each year in boating-related accidents in
the U.S.; approximately 80 percent of these are fatalities caused by drowning;
and
•Whereas, the vast majority of these accidents are caused by human error or
poor judgment and not by the boat, equipment or environmental factors; and
•Whereas, a significant number of boaters who lose their lives by drowning each
year would be alive today had they worn their life jackets.
Therefore, I, J. V. Dove, Mayor, do hereby support the goals of the Safe
Boating Campaign and proclaim May 19-25, 2018 as National Safe Boating Week and
the start of the year-round effort to promote safe boating
Given under my signature and the seal of:            /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor,
Southport, North Carolina
Patrick Ford, USCG: Boatswain’s Mate Second Class
Kim Curry, Flotilla Commander, USCG Auxiliary Flotilla 10-05
at the City of: Southport, North Carolina
this day of: May 10, 2018
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Pukenas asked to be recused from voting on the Consent Agenda to
avoid the appearance of a conflict of interest in reference to Item 3. Alderman
Coring motioned, second by Alderman Spencer to recuse Alderman Pukenas. Vote 6-
0; motion carried.
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Powell to approve the consent
agenda. Unanimous vote; motion carried.   
Approval of Minutes for April 4 Special Meeting & April 12 Regular Meeting –
   approved
Resolution Directing the Clerk to Investigate a Petition for Annexation
Received under G. S. 160A-31    approved
Tourism Commission Approval for a Tour-For-Hire Operator - approved
Resolution Supporting the Brunswick County Fire Fee Rate Setting - approved
RESOLUTION DIRECTING THE CLERK TO INVESTIGATE A PETITION RECEIVED UNDER G.S.
160A-58.1
   WHEREAS, a petition requesting annexation of an area described in said
petition was received on May 2, 2018, by the Board of Aldermen; and
   WHEREAS, G.S. 160A-58.2 provides that the sufficiency of the petition shall
be investigated by the City Clerk before further annexation proceedings may
take place; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport deems it advisable
to proceed in response to this request for annexation;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport that:
   The City Clerk is hereby directed to investigate the sufficiency of the
above described petition and to certify as soon as possible to the Board of
Aldermen the result of her investigation.
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
CITY OF SOUTHPORT
RESOLUTION SUPPORTING THE BRUNSWICK COUNTY FIRE FEE RATE SETTING
   WHEREAS, Brunswick County established an Emergency Services Fire Fee
Committee with an assumption that the goal of the Fire Fees is to fully fund
and support the Fire Departments in Brunswick County; and
   WHEREAS, the Committee has completed its study, has voted to increase fire
fees and to make a recommendation to the Brunswick County Board of
Commissioners; and
   WHEREAS, the Southport Fire Department falls within District 3; and
   WHEREAS, the Fire Fee Committee has recommended a 10% increase in Fire Fees
for the Southport Fire Department; and
   WHEREAS, the Fire Fees appropriated to the Southport Fire Department will be
used to support operations of the Southport Fire Department.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Mayor and Board of Aldermen of the
City of Southport hereby support the recommendation of the Emergency Services
Fire Fee Committee to increase Fire Fees.
   Adopted this 10th day of May 2018.         /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
                     
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
AGENDA 
5.   Report: Cape Fear Regional Jetport
   Airport Commission Member Flick Guerrina thanked the Board for appointing
him to the Commission and he introduced Howie Franklin, Chief of the Cape Fear
Regional Jetport.
   Mr. Franklin gave a history of the airport and spoke about the economic
impact for the area. Noting that the area is the 2nd fastest growing location
in the country, he stated that the airport has more air traffic than Hilton
Head, $5M in funded projects to improve the airport, eight (8) active
businesses on the airport, largest amount of executive jets in the state, and
4th busiest airport in the state per FAA. He displayed the plans for a new
multi-use environmentally friendly terminal building and examples of aircraft
using the airport. He emphasized that the economic impact for 2016 was $215M
and that for every $1 put in aviation there is a $19 return.
6.   Public Hearing; Water & Wastewater System Development Fee Analysis
   Mr. Jim Bourey, McGill Associates, summarized House Bill 436 amendment to
G.S. 162A Article 8, System Development Fees (SDF), to provide for uniform
authority to implement system development fees for public water and sewer
systems in North Carolina. He stated the legislature established a defined
methodology on how system development fees can be calculated and the City
retained McGill Associates to complete a system development fee analysis. Mr.
Bourey indicated the study, website posting and public hearing had to be
completed by June 30.
   Mr. Mike Ballard, McGill Associates, explained the methodology used for
determining SDF and he walked the Board through the study and the resultant
development fee ceiling of $17,547.20 for a three-bedroom single-family
dwelling. (Complete study on file in the Clerk’s office).
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to Open Public Hearing.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Mr. Bourey responded to a citizen’s query about the $17,547.20 maximum fee
and if that fee would be paid by developers. He explained that the larger a
single family dwelling, the larger the fee to provide water and sewer services
which would be paid at time of subdivision review, building permit issuance or
at Certificate of Occupancy.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to close Public
Hearing. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
7.   Public Hearing; Flood Maps
   City Planner Lloyd explained that in order to comply with the minimum
criteria of the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) and per notification by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), the city is required to move
forward with adoption of the new Flood Insurance Study (FIS) and the associated
Flood Insurance Risk Maps (FIRM) effective August 28, 2018. Mr. Lloyd reported
that the Planning Board had found that the adoption of the FIS and FIRM is
consistent with the 2015 CAMA Core Land Use Plan and along with staff,
recommends adoption of the FIS and FIRM by the Board of Aldermen.
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Sharkey to Open Public Hearing.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   There was no public comment.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to close Public
Hearing. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
8.   Consideration; Adopt Flood Maps
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to adopt the Flood
Insurance Study (FIS) and the Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRM). Unanimous vote;
motion carried.
ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT, NORTH CAROLINA, TO ADOPT THE EFFECTIVE
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS) AND ITS ACCOMPANYING FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAPS
(FIRM)
WHEREAS, the City of Southport has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance with
a Flood Damage Prevention Article to control land development within the
Special Flood Hazard Area; and
WHEREAS, in order to comply with the minimum criteria of the National Flood
Insurance Program (NFIP) [44 CFR 60.3(d) and (e)] and NC Session Law 2000-150,
Senate Bill 1341 [NCGS 143.- 215.51-.61] the City of Southport must adopt the
effective Flood Insurance Study (FIS) and its accompanying Flood Insurance Rate
Maps (FIRM); and
WHEREAS, at the duly held meeting on April 19, 2018 the Planning Board found
the new flood maps to be consistent with the CAMA Land Use Plan and recommended
approval of the proposed adoption of the new flood maps; and
WHEREAS, the City of Southport conducted a duly advertised public hearing on
the draft amendment to the effective Flood Insurance Study (FIS) and its
accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRM) at the Regular Meeting of the
Board of Aldermen on May 10, 2018.
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen, after considering the public hearing response
and recommendation of the Planning Board, hereby finds that the proposed
adoption of the effective Flood Insurance Study (FIS) and its accompanying
Flood Insurance Rate Maps is consistent with the Southport 2015 CAMA Core Land
Use Plan and is reasonable and in the public interest because they will (i)
promote public health, safety, and general welfare in the community by
establishing provisions to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions within flood prone areas; (ii) they are consistent with Management
Goal 2A of the CAMA Land Use Plan, (iii) they are consistent with Policies 51
and 52 of the CAMA Land Use Plan, and (iv) the adoption of the new flood maps
is necessary to comply with the minimum criteria of the National Flood
Insurance Program (NFIP); and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen that the effective
Flood Insurance Study (FIS) and its accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps
(FIRM) is hereby approved and adopted.
Adopted this the 10th day of May 2018
                        City of Southport
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
9.   Public Hearing; Text Amendment Unified Development Ordinance (UDO) Article
21: Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance (ZA 18-0412-02)
   City Planner Lloyd explained the changes recommended by the NC Department of
Public Safety/Emergency Risk Management to the City’s Unified Development
Ordinance (UDO) Article 21, Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance, had been
completed. Mr. Lloyd stated that the Planning Board found the proposed text
amendment consistent with the CAMA Core Land Use Plan and recommend adoption of
the amendment by the Board of Aldermen.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to Open Public Hearing.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   There was no public comment.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Sharkey to close Public
Hearing. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
10.   Consideration of Text Amendment, UDO Article 21: Flood Damage Prevention
      Ordinance
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to approve the text
amendment. Unanimous vote; motion carried.   
ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT, NORTH CAROLINA, TO AMEND ARTICLE 21 OF THE
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
WHEREAS, the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance with a Flood
Damage Prevention Article to control land development within the Special Flood
Hazard Area within both the City’s incorporated areas and within its
extraterritorial area; and
WHEREAS, in order to comply with the minimum criteria of the National Flood
Insurance Program (NFIP) [44 CFR 60.3(d) and (e)] and NC Session Law 2000-150,
Senate Bill 1341 [NCGS 143.- 215.51-.61] the City of Southport must amend
Article 21 of the Unified Development Ordinance; and
WHEREAS, at the duly held meeting on April 19, 2018 the Planning Board found
this proposed amendment to be consistent with the CAMA Land Use Plan and
recommended approval of the proposed amendment to Article 21 of the Unified
Development Ordinance; and
WHEREAS, the City of Southport conducted a duly advertised public hearing on
the proposed amendment to Article 21 of the Unified Development Ordinance at
the Regular Meeting of the Board of Aldermen on May 10, 2018.
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen, after considering the public hearing response
and recommendation of the Planning Board, hereby finds that the proposed text
amendment of Article 21 of the Unified Development Ordinance is consistent with
the Southport 2015 CAMA Core Land Use Plan and is reasonable and in the public
interest because the amendment will (i) promote public health, safety, and
general welfare in the community by establishing provisions to minimize public
and private losses due to flood conditions within flood prone areas; (ii) the
amendment is consistent with Management Goal 2A of the CAMA Land Use Plan,
(iii) the amendment is consistent with Policies 51 and 52 of the CAMA Land Use
Plan, and (iv) the amendment is necessary to comply with the minimum criteria
of the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP); and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Southport Board of Aldermen that
Article 21 of the City of Southport Unified Development Ordinance is hereby
amended as follows on Exhibit A attached.
Adopted this the 10th day of May 2018
                        City of Southport
                        /s/ J.V. Dove, Mayor         
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
Exhibit A
TEXT AMENDMENT # 18-0412-02
ORDINANCE RESOLUTION OF THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT, NORTH CAROLINA, TO AMEND ARTICLE
21 OF THE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
AMEND BY ADDITION:
ARTICLE 21: Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance
The Southport UDO is hereby amended by adding the following:
(Complete text amendment on file in the Clerk’s office).
11.   Schedule Budget Hearing
   City Manager Oakley presented the Board a Preliminary FY 2018-2019 Budget.
   A Budget review meeting was scheduled for Wednesday, May 30, 5:00 p.m. at
Fire Headquarters, 1011 N. Howe Street, 2nd floor Emergency Operations Center
(EOC).
   A Budget Public Hearing was scheduled for the Board of Aldermen June 14
regular meeting, Community Building, 223 E. Bay Street, 6:00 p.m.
12.   Appointment to ABC Board
   Alderman Sharkey motioned, second by Alderman Coring to reappoint Mr.
William Davis to the Southport ABC Board. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Mayor Dove appointed Alderman Coring as Liaison to the ABC Board.
13.   Consider of Animal Protective Services/Code Enforcement Officer Job
Description
   City Manager Oakley presented a Board requested job description for an
Animal Protective Services Officer. He stated that he added code enforcement
duties to the description. He pointed out that if the Board approves the
proposed FY 2018-2019 budget, a full time position would be funded.
   Alderman Coring thanked the City Manager for putting the job description
together. He stated his support for the description and addition of the
position.
   Alderman Mosteller motioned, second by Alderman Sharkey to approve the job
description. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
   Alderman Mosteller reported that an Animal Control Ordinance working
document had been provided to the city attorney for review. She stated that
after the attorney’s review, the Animal Control Committee would schedule a
meeting.
   Alderman Mosteller reported that interviews for a candidate to review and
update the Unified Development Ordinance (UDO) would be completed the week of
May 15.
PROJECT REPORT
   Complete Project Report included in the Agenda packet.
   City Manager Oakley reported that he, the Mayor, Alderman Powell and Fire
Chief Drew will soon be meeting with the developers of Southport Crossing
regarding a Fire Department Substation.
   City Manager Oakley reported that he, the Mayor, and Alderman Powell met to
discuss shoreline stabilization.   
STAFF REPORTS
   Departmental Reports included in the Agenda packet. No additional reports
from attending department heads.
   Mayor Dove reminded Lieutenant Simmons to advise the Police Chief of Mr.
Harrelson’s comments about a short term rental in his neighborhood.
BOARD COMMENTS
   Alderman Coring spoke about the public outcry and hostility regarding the
City Boat Dock. He suggested holding a workshop to keep the public apprised of
the status of the project. He pointed out that Southport has entered other
public/private partnerships that have been beneficial for both parties and he
believes there are misunderstandings about the potential partnership with the
Marina. He said the Board needs to clarify information and get it out to the
citizens. He noted that the Marina owns the marshland.
ADJOURN  
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to adjourn the meeting.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
                        /s/ J.V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
JUNE 14, 2018
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING JUNE 14, 2018
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Karen Mosteller, Lora Sharkey, Jim Powell, Todd Coring,
Marc Spencer, Rick Pukenas
STAFF PRESENT:      Bruce Oakley, City Manager
         Michele Windham, City Clerk
         Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
         David Fox, Public Works Director
         Gary Smith, Police Chief
         Charles Drew, Fire Chief
         Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
         Randy Jones, Tourism Director
         B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
         Thomas Lloyd, Planner
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Dove called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Powell welcomed everyone and Mayor Dove gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
Alderman Powell led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Public Comment
   Steve Simon, 6211 Pebble Shore Lane, spoke about the potential loss of
waterfront views at the Southport boat dock if the city enters into an
agreement with Southport Marina to add boat slips in the Yacht Basin. He
contended that the basin will become a yacht parking lot. He suggested a No
Yacht Parking Southport campaign.
   Ms. Amy Greer, 509 N. Atlantic Avenue, spoke about vehicles traveling at
unsafe speeds along Atlantic Avenue between Brown and Leonard Streets. She said
the route is a major cut through for avoiding Howe Street traffic. She
expressed concern for the 16 children living in the area and asked for
consideration of lowering the speed limit to 20 mph and adding a 4-way stop at
E. Brown Street & Atlantic Avenue.
   Echoing Ms. Greer’s concerns, Ms. Pam Rainey, a N. Atlantic Avenue resident,
commented about the amount of pedestrian traffic along Atlantic Avenue and the
speed of vehicles. She asked for consideration of a 4-way stop at E. Brown
Street & Atlantic Avenue.
   Mr. Woody Wilson, 502 Brunswick Street, stated concerns relating to the
Board communicating with citizens about the Yacht Basin/Marina project. He
emphasized working harder to suppress rumors, better open communications and
encouraging public input.
   Ms. Shirley Snyder, 5120 Prices Creek Drive, chair of the Beautification
Committee, stated appreciation for Board liaison Alderman Mosteller and Tourism
Director Randy Jones, liaison to the City. Ms. Snyder emphasized how important
Mr. Jones is to the Beautification Committee and that he has streamlined their
work. She pointed out that Randy worked with a volunteer who built Adirondack
chairs for addition to the Garrison lawn. Ms. Snyder thanked Fire Chief Drew
for having the Fire Department water new plantings. On behalf of the Garden
Club, Ms. Snyder stated their gratefulness.
   Ms. Snyder announced that she would be hosting a picnic, Saturday, June 16,
4:00 – 7:00 p.m. to thank the volunteers. She invited the Board.
   Ms. Snyder announced that there would be a Beautification Committee float in
the 4th of July parade.
E)   Approval of Agenda
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to approve the agenda.
   Aye:   Aldermen Powell, Pukenas, Sharkey, Mosteller, Coring
   Nay:   Alderman Spencer
   Motion carried 5-1
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Dove stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
F)   Announcements
   Mayor Dove announced that celebration of Juneteenth would be held in
Caviness Park, Saturday, June 16, beginning at 10:30 a.m.
   Mayor Dove thanked the Beautification Committee for their efforts
beautifying the City.
   Alderman Mosteller announced that a clean-up of Smithville Burying Grounds,
in conjunction with the Historical Society, would be held Saturday, June 23
beginning at 8:00 a.m.
   Alderman Mosteller announced that the Board would hold an open house
workshop Wednesday, June 25, 5:00 p.m., 111 E. Nash Street on the topic of
sewer rates and development fees.
   Alderman Coring reminded all of the annual Fire Fighters Competition,
Saturday, June 30th beginning at 10:00 a.m. He also urged everyone to see the
traveling 9/11 Memorial, 9:00 a.m. – 3:00 p.m. Saturday, June 30 and Sunday
July 1.
   Alderman Coring thanked all first responders and citizens that responded to
a recent boat crash along the waterfront. He stated it was a great example of
neighbors helping neighbors.
   Alderman Pukenas announced that summer concerts are held every Thursday, 6:
00 – 8:00 p.m. in Franklin Square Park.
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Spencer asked that Items #4, Contract with Brush Bandit Hauling,
LLC & #7, Resolution Adopting System Development Fees Report, be moved from the
Consent Agenda to the Regular Agenda.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to approve the Consent
Agenda as amended. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Approval of Minutes for May 10, 2018, Regular Meeting – approved
   2.   Accept Clerk’s Certification and Set Public Hearing for Voluntary
Annexation under G.S. 160A-31 –       approved
   3.   Employee Health Insurance – approved
   4.   Downtown Southport Inc.; Market Day Relocation to Franklin Square Park
– approved
   5.   Resolution in Support of a Toll Rate Increase for the Southport-Fort
Fisher Ferry – approved
   6.   Contract; Brunswick County Fire Protection Mutual Assistance – approved
   7.   Fire Department Membership Limit - approved   
   8.   Resolutions; Acceptance of a State Grant – Water & Wastewater Asset
Inventory and Assessment       approved
   9.   FY 2017-2018 Budget Transfer – approved
CERTIFICATE OF SUFFICIENCY
To the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North Carolina:
I, Michele Windham, City Clerk, do hereby certify that I have investigated the
attached petition and hereby find that said petition is signed by all owners of
real property lying in the area described therein in accordance with G.S. 160A-
31.
In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the seal of the
City of Southport, this 18th day of May, 2018.                          
                     /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
RESOLUTION FIXING DATE OF PUBLIC HEARING ON QUESTION OF ANNEXATION PURSUANT TO
G.S. 160A-31
WHEREAS, a petition requesting annexation of the area described herein has been
received; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen has by resolution directed the City Clerk to
investigate the sufficiency of the petition; and
WHEREAS, certification by the City Clerk as to the sufficiency of the petition
has been made;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport, North Carolina that:
Section 1. A public hearing on the question of annexation of the area described
herein will be held at the Southport Community Building located at 223 E. Bay
Street in Southport, N.C. at 6:00 p.m. on July 12, 2018.
Section 2. The area proposed for annexation is described as follows:
Being all of that certain parcel(s) or tract of land lying and being in
Smithville Township, Brunswick County, North Carolina and being more
particularly described as follows:
BEGINNING for reference at the southwest corner of Cades Cove Subdivision as
shown on MB 78 PG 98 of the Brunswick County Records. Thence with the south
line of said Cades Cove Subdivision, N79°08’16”E, 144.36’ to the PRINCIPAL
PLACE OF BEGINNING FOR THIS SURVEY.
Thence leaving said south line of and into said Cades Cove Subdivision,
N19°28’04”E, 281.37’ to a point;
Thence S70°27’07”E, 479.78’ to a point on the south line of said Cades Cove
Subdivision;
Thence with said south line of Cades Cove Subdivision, S79°08’16”W, 555.86’ to
the PRINCIPAL PLACE OF BEGINNING.
Section 3. Notice of the public hearing shall be published once in the State
Port Pilot, a newspaper having general circulation in the City of Southport,
North Carolina, at least ten (10) days prior to the date of the public hearing.
                     /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
A RESOLUTION AFFIRMING SUPPORT OF A TOLL RATE INCREASE FOR THE SOUTHPORT-FORT
FISHER FERRY
WHEREAS ,  the Southport-Fort Fisher Ferry is in need of additional revenue to
pay for capital improvements to vessels on its route; and
WHEREAS, in 2013, the North Carolina General Assembly mandated that new capital
improvements to the ferry system be funded through the Strategic Transportation
Initiative (STI) or by revenue-raising initiatives such as tolling,
advertising, and concessions; and
WHEREAS ,  the North Carolina Board of Transportation approved a tolling
methodology but has taken no action to increase fares on the Southport-Fort
Fisher Ferry; and
WHEREAS ,  the Southport-Fort Fisher Ferry is currently tolled and all fares
collected fund new ferry vessels and ferry improvements that directly benefit
the Southport-Fort Fisher Ferry; and
WHEREAS ,  in 2014, the NCDOT proposed to retain the same fares for
pedestrians, bicycles, and motorcycles but increase the fares for vehicles less
than 20 feet from $5 to $7, between 20 feet and 40 feet from $10 to $14 and
greater than 40 feet from $15 to $28; and
WHEREAS ,  there is no proposed change in the price of a Commuter Pass, thereby
protecting regular users from increased costs; and
WHEREAS, all fares will be deposited in an account designated for ferry
replacement vessels on the Southport-Fort Fisher Ferry route, per NCGS §136-82
(d); and
WHEREAS ,  public comments at a February 18, 2014 meeting at Southport City
Hall were supportive of the increase; and
WHEREAS ,  on March 22, 2014, May 20, 2016, and August 18, 2017 the Cape Fear
Rural Planning Organization RTAC adopted a resolution in support of increasing
the fares on the Southport-Fort Fisher Ferry; and
NOW THEREFORE, be it resolved that the City of Southport Board of Aldermen
hereby affirms its support for the proposed ferry toll increase for the
Southport-Fort Fisher Ferry.
Adopted this, the 14th of June 2018.                City of Southport
                           /s/ J.V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA
COUNTY OF BRUNSWICK
CONTRACT AND AGREEMENT
THIS Contract and Agreement made and entered into this first day of September,
2018 by and between The County of Brunswick, a North Carolina body corporate
and politic, hereinafter called County, and the City of Southport, a political
subdivision of the State of North Carolina, Brunswick County, North
Carolina, hereinafter called Fire Department;
WITNESSETH
THAT WHEREAS, N.C.G.S. Chapter 153A authorizes Counties to enter into
contracts, and to make annual appropriations of funds; and
WHEREAS, N.C.G.S. Chapter 160A authorizes Municipalities to enter into
contracts; and
WHEREAS, the County collects Fire Fees from its citizens in order to provide
fire protection services to those citizens; and
WHEREAS, the County chooses to contract with Fire Department in order to
provide those fire protection services, and for mutual assistance in fire
protection services in order to increase fire defenses and to provide reserves
needed to assure the community of adequate protection;
NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the mutual promises and agreements
herein contained, and pursuant to the general power and authority of the Fire
Department to furnish firefighting services, and the general power and
authority of the County to provide fire protection for its inhabitants and
owners of property, the parties hereto mutually contract and agree as follows:
GENERAL DUTIES
The Fire Department agrees to furnish and provide continuing fire protection
and related services to all properties lying within its designated
fire response territorial limits, upon the call of any resident,
property owner, other person, or agency. The City shall serve the area
including the Southport Fire District as well as the Yaupon Beach Fire
District.
All firefighting equipment, related services equipment, and personnel
necessary and proper for the performance of this contract and Agreement
shall be provided by the Fire Department at its sole cost and expense, and all
persons engaged in fighting fires or in related
services pursuant to the provisions of this Contract and Agreement shall be
subject to the exclusive control, direction and supervision, of the Fire
Department. Except as noted herein below, the County shall not have any right
or power with respect to the employment, control, direction, supervision,
suspension or discharge of any person who may engage in firefighting or related
services imposed by the provisions of the Contract and Agreement upon the Fire
Department in furnishing firefighting and related services to the County for
the benefit of its residents and property owners.
MUTUAL AID
THAT WHEREAS, the General Assembly of North Carolina did enact into law an
act to authorize mutual aid assistance between fire departments
whereby full authority may be exercised for fire departments to send
firefighters and apparatus beyond the territorial limits which they normally
serve, said act having been codified as G.S. 58-83-1;
WHEREAS, the purpose of this agreement is to provide each
department within the county through this contract, a pre-determined plan by
which each of the departments might render automatic aid or mutual aid
to the other in the case of conflagration, holocaust, civil disorder, or
natural disaster, any of which demand fire services to a degree beyond
the existing capabilities of a department;
WHEREAS, it is deemed to be in the public interest
for the departments within the county to enter into an agreement for mutual
assistance in fire protection and in order to increase fire defenses and
to assure proper fire control, as well as providing reserves needed
to assure the community of adequate protection;
WHEREAS, by action of the (Governing Body) of the Department this agreement for
automatic aid or mutual aid assistance was duly authorized;
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants contained herein by the
COUNTY OF BRUNSWICK and the CITY OF SOUTHPORT , it is hereby agreed as follows:
Upon notification by another fire department, Emergency Management Department,
Fire Marshal, or other agency that an emergency does in fact exist and Fire
Department's automatic aid or mutual aid is needed, the Chief  (hereafter  also
including any other fire officer or person delegated that authority by said
Chief) shall have the implicit authority to order such available apparatus,
equipment, and personnel as may be required to respond to assist the requesting
agency. After determining that the automatic aid or mutual aid request may be
honored without impairing the Fire Department’s capacity to provide protection
within its own jurisdiction, the Chief may take such steps, as he/she deems
appropriate to furnish the requested aid.
It shall be the responsibility of the Fire Department to assure that all
personnel responding to the request for automatic aid or mutual aid
are trained, responsible persons. The conduct and actions of said responding
personnel shall remain the obligation and responsibility of the responding Fire
Department. In addition, it shall be the responsibility of the Chief of the
Fire Department to assure that each piece of responding apparatus and equipment
is operational and capable of functioning properly for that type of apparatus
or equipment.
Fire Department shall assume all liability and responsibility for the death
or injury to any of its own personnel while responding to the request for
automatic or mutual aid.
Fire Department shall assume all liability and responsibility for damage to, or
caused by, its own apparatus and equipment while en route to or from an
automatic or mutual aid request.
Agency requesting automatic or mutual aid shall have
no liability nor responsibility for the personal property of Fire Department
personnel if said property is lost, stolen, damaged, or destroyed while those
personnel are performing their duties under the automatic or mutual aid
response terms contained herein.
Fire Department shall assume no liability or responsibility for property
damaged or destroyed at the actual scene or any automatic or mutual aid
response due to the fire fighting and/or rescue operations, fire control
tactics, and strategy or other operations as may be required or ordered; all
such liability and responsibility shall rest solely with the requesting agency
and within whose boundaries the property shall exist, or the incident occurred.
Fire Department shall assume all costs of salaries, wages, bonuses, or other
compensation for its own personnel that respond to a automatic or mutual aid
dispatch under the terms of this Contract and Agreement, and Fire Department
shall also assume all costs involving the use of apparatus, equipment, and
tools used specifically in response to the request for automatic or mutual aid,
and Fire Department shall make no charge for such use to the agency requesting
the automatic or mutual aid assistance. However, any special extinguishing
agents, other than water, provided by the Fire Department
from its own supply shall be paid for by the requesting agency, upon receipt of
an itemized statement of costs for such extinguishing agents.
The Chief of the agency requesting assistance shall in all instances be  in
command  of the emergency as to the aspects of strategy, fire control tactics,
and/or overall direction of the operations. All orders or directions regarding
the operations and personnel of the automatic aid or mutual aid Fire Department
shall be relayed to the Officer of the Fire Department present at that incident
and in command of that department.
When Fire Department personnel are sent to another district pursuant to this
Contract and Agreement, the jurisdiction, rights, authority, privileges, and
immunities, including coverage under Workman's Compensation Laws, which said
personnel have in the Fire Department, shall be extended to the areas outside
the normal response territorial limits, when said personnel are acting within
the scope of the authority conferred by this Contract and Agreement.
In Fire Department where their districts have been extended to a six mile
district, the Fire Department that joins that district will automatically be
dispatched under the automatic aid agreement of this Contract and Agreement.
Upon dispatch, that Fire Department who is providing automatic aid will send a
minimum of one engine with 1,000 gallons of water and adequate personnel.
CONDITIONS TO RECEIVE FUNDS
A roster of personnel, including their fire and rescue certifications, shall be
provided quarterly.
The Fire Department will submit promptly to the County Manager any information
requested related to any services which use County fire fees.
The Fire Department shall conduct pre-fire plans on all structures other than
one and two- family dwellings within their response districts.
Each Fire Department shall have an adopted standard operating guideline that
addresses the appropriate number of firefighters needed on all types of fire
calls. The Fire Department shall adhere to the response criteria set forth by
the North Carolina Department of Insurance and associated 9S rating criteria.
Should the Brunswick County Fire Commission and/or Board of Commissioners adopt
new standards, those standards shall control to the extent they are more
stringent than the 9S rating criteria. The Fire Department shall provide a copy
of its standard operating guidelines and any amendments thereto.
The Fire Department officer in charge at all fire scenes shall attempt to
determine the origin and cause of every fire. When the officer cannot determine
the origin and cause of the fire or if the cause of the fire is suspected to be
arson in nature, the officer in charge shall request the appropriate agency
having jurisdiction to assist. The Fire Department should provide whatever
assistance is needed to assist the agency having jurisdiction at the fire
scene.
The Fire Department shall be NIMS compliant and adhere to any local, state or
federal guidelines regarding Incident Command.
The Fire Department shall take under advisement any recommendations of the
Brunswick County Fire Protection Oversight Committee.
The Fire Department shall prepare an annual budget based on anticipated
revenues and shall submit the budget to the county for processing and approval
according to the county’s regular budget calendar. The budget and recommended
fire fees shall have the approval of the department’s Board of Aldermen prior
to submission to the County.
The County may audit the Fire Department’s financial records upon reasonable
notice to the Fire Department. Any fees collected by the county will be
withheld until all fiscal issues are resolved to the satisfaction of the County
Finance Officer.
The Fire Department will use the County supplied “Emergency Reporting” software
for NFIRS incident reporting and will allow County access to their records via
Emergency Reporting login.
The Fire Department that chooses to operate a Medical Responder program shall
adhere to EMS system guidelines established for the operation of Medical
Responder programs in Brunswick County and shall adhere to the Brunswick County
EMS System Continuing Education Program.
The Fire Department shall maintain an up to date membership with the North
Carolina State Firemen’s Association and shall ensure that all members have
acquired the mandated minimum training hours as required per year to remain on
the roster.
The County shall have the right to inspect, examine, and make copies of such
operational records it requests as may assist the County in its evaluation of
the effectiveness of the department and the provision of fire services to the
County generally. Such operational information may include, but is not limited
to, Emergency Reporting Access, call volumes, staffing on duty, staffing on
scene, response time, rosters of employees and volunteers, and information the
County deems necessary to conduct a study of fire service delivery methods in
the County.
COMPENSATION AND AUDIT
As full compensation from Brunswick County for services to be rendered by Fire
Department as herein provided, the County agrees to make payments to Fire
Department in the sum as set by the Brunswick County Board of Commissioners for
each fiscal year to be advanced in quarterly payments beginning with the first
quarter after July 1, 2018.
FIRE FEE EXPENDITURES AND PROPERTY DISPOSAL
All Fire Fees shall be utilized strictly for the operation, maintenance and
capital outlay needs of the Fire Department. Any item acquired using Fire Fees
by the Fire Department shall become the property of that Fire Department (and
titled to that Fire Department when applicable).
No Fire Department resources procured with fire fees may be used for personal
purposes or for the benefit of any board members, paid staff, or volunteer
staff. In the event the Fire Department deems a piece of equipment necessary to
sell or dispose of, the department shall offer it for sale to other Brunswick
County fire departments or to the County prior to offering the equipment to
outside agencies. Any proceeds obtained from the sale of surplus property
acquired with any Fire Fees shall be used only for the same purpose as Fire
Fees.
A breach of this section shall result in the withholding of fire fees in an
amount equal to the value of the breach as determined by the County Finance
Director.
TERM
   This Contract and Agreement shall be valid until June 30, 2019 and shall
automatically renew for terms of one year following the County fiscal year
cycle until notice of termination is provided pursuant to this contract.
TERMINATION OF CONTRACT
Each party shall have the right to terminate this contract at the end of the
term without cause by giving the other party one hundred twenty (120) days
written notice of termination.
Each party shall have the right to terminate this contract with cause by giving
the other party sixty (60) days written notice of termination.
EVENT OF A BREACH
    Unless otherwise stated herein, in the event of a breach of any provision
of this contract by the Fire Department, the department shall be notified and
provided thirty (30) days to cure the breach. Failure to cure within thirty
(30) days shall result in the immediate suspension of funding.
NOTIFICATIONS
   Notifications pursuant to this agreement shall be in writing to the
following:
   Brunswick County            City of Southport
   c/o County Manager            c/o City Manager
   P.O. Box 248               1029 N. Howe Street
   Bolivia, NC 28422            Southport, NC 28461
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
   Entire Agreement. This writing contains the entire agreement between the
parties. No representations were made or relied upon by either party other than
those that are expressly set forth. This agreement may not be amended or
modified except in a subsequent written agreement duly executed by each of the
parties.
   Controlling Law. The validity, interpretation, and performance of this
agreement shall be controlled by and construed under the laws of the State of
North Carolina. The parties hereby submit to jurisdiction and venue in the
courts of Brunswick County, North Carolina.
   E-Verify. Pursuant to G.S. 143-48.5 and G.S. 147-33.95(g), the undersigned
hereby certifies that the Contractor named below, and the Contractor’s
subcontractors, complies with the requirements of Article 2 of Chapter 64 of
the NC General Statutes, including the requirement for each employer with more
than 25 employees in North Carolina to verify the work authorization of its
employees through the federal E-Verify system." E-Verify System Link:
www.uscis.gov.
   Non-Waiver of Rights. It is agreed that either party’s failure to insist
upon the strict performance of any provision of this contract or to exercise
any right based upon a breach, shall not constitute a waiver of any rights
under this contract.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the County has caused this Contract and Agreement to be
executed in its name by its chairman of the Board of County Commissioners,
attested to by the Clerk to the Board and the County Seal affixed hereto, all
by authority duly given by the Board of Commissioners of the County of
Brunswick.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, City of Southport
has caused this document to be executed in its name by its Mayor, attested to by the
Town Clerk and its Seal to be affixed hereto, all by authority duly given by
its Town Council as of the day and year first above written.
ATTEST:                  THE COUNTY OF BRUNSWICK
/s/ Andrea White, Clerk to the Board   By:   /s/ Frank Williams, Chairman
ATTEST:   CITY OF SOUTHPORT
/s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk   By:   /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
“This instrument has been preaudited in the manner required by the Local
Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act.”
/s/ Julie Miller, Director of Fiscal Operations
Brunswick County
RESOLUTION OF ACCEPTANCE FOR WATER ASSET INVENTORY & ASSESSMENT PLAN GRANT
WHEREAS,   the North Carolina General Statutes Chapter 159G has created Asset
Inventory and Assessment grants to assist eligible units of government with
meeting their water infrastructure needs; and
WHEREAS,   The North Carolina Department of Environmental Quality has offered a
Grant in the amount of $65,000 to the City of Southport in order to perform
Asset Inventory and assessment work; and
WHEREAS,   the City of Southport intends to complete said project in accordance
with the agreed scope of work;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN OF THE CITY OF
SOUTHPORT:
That the City of Southport does hereby accept State Reserve Grant offer of $
65,000.
That the City of Southport does hereby give assurance to the North Carolina
Department of Environmental Quality that any Conditions or Assurances contained
in the Award Offer will be adhered to.
That Bruce Oakley, the City Manager, and successors so titled, is hereby
authorized and directed to furnish such information as the appropriate State
agency may request in connection with such application or the project; to make
the assurances as contained above; and to execute such other documents as may
be required by the Division of Water Infrastructure.
ADOPTED this the 14th day of June, 2018.      City of Southport      
                     BY: /s/ J.V. Dove, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
RESOLUTION OF ACCEPTANCE FOR WASTEWATER ASSET INVENTORY & ASSESSMENT PLAN GRANT
WHEREAS,   the North Carolina General Statutes Chapter 159G has created Asset
Inventory and Assessment grants to assist eligible units of government with
meeting their water infrastructure needs; and
WHEREAS,   The North Carolina Department of Environmental Quality has offered a
Grant in the amount of $20,000 to the City of Southport in order to perform
Asset Inventory and assessment work; and
WHEREAS,   the City of Southport intends to complete said project in accordance
with the agreed scope of work;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN OF THE CITY OF
SOUTHPORT:
That the City of Southport does hereby accept State Reserve Grant offer of $
20,000.
That the City of Southport does hereby give assurance to the North Carolina
Department of Environmental Quality that any Conditions or Assurances contained
in the Award Offer will be adhered to.
That Bruce Oakley, the City Manager, and successors so titled, is hereby
authorized and directed to furnish such information as the appropriate State
agency may request in connection with such application or the project; to make
the assurances as contained above; and to execute such other documents as may
be required by the Division of Water Infrastructure.
ADOPTED this the 14th day of June, 2018.      City of Southport
                     BY: /s/ J.V. Dove, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
AGENDA  
10.   Contract with Brush Bandit Hauling, LLC for Yard Waste Pickup
   City Manager Oakley stated that Waste Industries has been contracted to
provide solid waste and recycling pickup. Staff is recommending contracting
directly with Brush Bandit Hauling, LLC for yard debris pickup.
   Alderman Spencer suggested consideration of an in house yard debris
recycling program to provide mulch back to citizens for use.
   Responding to a query by Alderman Powell, City Manager Oakley stated that
purchase of a 95 gallon yard waste container would be possible through Brush
Bandit Hauling.
   Alderman Sharkey motioned, second by Alderman Powell to adopt the Contract
with Brush Bandit Hauling, LLC as written. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA
COUNTY OF BRUNSWICK AGREEMENT      
THIS AGREEMENT ("Agreement") made and entered into this the 14th day of June,
2018, by and between the City of Southport, a North Carolina municipal
corporation, party of the first part (“Southport”), and Brush Bandit Hauling,
LLC, a North Carolina limited liability company of Brunswick County, North
Carolina, party of the second part (“Contractor”);
   W I T N E S S E T H :
   THAT WHEREAS, Southport desires to contract for the removal of yard debris
from the residential properties located within the city limits; and
   WHEREAS, Contractor desires to provide said service to Southport upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
   NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises and covenants
contained herein, and other valuable consideration, the receipt of which is
acknowledged by both parties hereto, it is hereby agreed as follows:
   1. This agreement shall be for a term of one year and shall take effect on
July 1, 2018, and run through June 30, 2019. This agreement shall automatically
renew each year for additional one year terms unless either party gives the
other party a 60 day written notice of termination prior to the end of the
current term.
   2. As compensation for the services provided herein by Contractor, Southport
shall pay to Contractor the sum of $ 1.00 per residential home per week. New
residential homes shall be added quarterly at the same price per year. In the
event that diesel price rises above $ 3.50 per gallon, the parties agree to
negotiate in good faith a fuel surcharge to be added to the above compensation.
In the event that the parties cannot agree regarding said adjustment to the
compensation, either party may terminate this contract upon 60 days written
notice.
   3. Yard debris will be picked up by Contractor on each Wednesday of the year
unless July 4 or Christmas falls on a Wednesday in which event an alternate
date will be chosen to ensure timely service.  
   4. Yard debris shall be serviced by Contractor provide that (i) it has been
placed in a 95 gallon rollout cart designated “Yard Waste”, or (ii ) it is in
biodegradable paper bags, or (iii) it consists of bundles of brush and limbs
securely tied in 5 foot lengths of no more than 50 pounds in weight. All
rollout carts are the property of the homeowner and Contractor is not
responsible for the maintenance or repair of said carts.
   5. Yard debris pickup shall be for residential homes only and pickup is not
included for vacant lots, businesses, parks and other public areas. In
addition, yard debris will not be picked up if mixed with trash or recycle.
   6. Contractor shall not be required to pick up yard debris above normal
tonnage following a named storm unless the parties reach an agreement related
thereto. Contractor shall, however, if conditions permit, make its regular
pickup pursuant to this agreement of the amount of debris contracted for
herein.
   7. Contractor agrees and covenants to comply with all local, state and
federal laws and regulations in performing the services hereunder.
   8. Contractor shall maintain general liability insurance coverage in at
least the amount of $2,000,000 automobile insurance coverage in at least the
amount of $1,000,000 and workmen-s compensation and other insurances as
required by law. Contractor does hereby agree to indemnify and save harmless
Southport and its employees, officers and officials from and against any and
all claims, causes of action, loss, costs, damages, charges, liability or
expenses, including court costs and attorney fees, which it may sustain or be
put to by reason of the services provided herein by Contractor.
   9. If Southport shall fail to pay any payment within seven days after the
same is due, or fail to perform any other obligations, duties or
responsibilities for which it is liable or responsible hereunder, after ten
(10) days’ notice in writing to pay or perform, Contractor may terminate this
agreement upon 10 days’ written notice without further obligation hereunder.
    If Contractor shall fail to perform its work, obligations, duties or
responsibilities in accordance with this agreement, after ten (10) days’ notice
in writing to perform, or in the event of Contractor’s bankruptcy, insolvency,
receivership or assignment for the benefit of creditors, then in any of said
events Southport may terminate this agreement upon 10 days’ written notice
without further obligation to Contractor other than to pay for the services
rendered to the date of termination.
   10. Contractor may not assign this agreement to another party without the
written consent of the City of Southport.
   IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement the day and
year first above written.
                                                               City of
Southport
      BY: /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
                              Brush Bandit Hauling, LLC
                        BY: Its Manager
11.   Resolution Adopting System Development Fees Report
   Noting that a public hearing was held during the May regular Board meeting,
City Attorney Isenberg stated that the resolution for adoption is for the
Development Fees Report only and does not set rates.
   Alderman Spencer asked when the Board would address rates and stated his
opinion that he does not want to do anything to deter growth and he would like
to see incremental rate increases. City Manager Oakley pointed out that the
June 25th workshop would be open to the public.
   Alderman Sharkey motioned, second by Alderman Powell to adopt the System
Development Fees Report.
   Ayes:   Aldermen Sharkey, Powell, Pukenas, Coring, Mosteller
   Nay:   Alderman Spencer
   Motion passed 5 – 1
RESOLUTION ADOPTING SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT FEES REPORT
   THAT WHEREAS, Session Law 2017-138 (House Bill 436) known as the “Public
Water and Sewer System Development Fee Act” sets certain standards and
limitations before a city may adopt a system development fee for water and
sewer service; and
   WHEREAS, said Act requires that a system development fee be established only
after written analysis prepared by a qualified financial professional or
qualified licensed professional engineer in a manner as set forth in said Act;
and
   WHEREAS, the City of Southport has retained McGill Associates, a qualified
and licensed professional engineer and consulting firm, to perform said
analysis in accordance with said Act; and
   WHEREAS, McGill Associates has performed said analysis and delivered a
written report to the City of Southport pursuant to said Act; and
   WHEREAS, the analysis has been posted on the City’s website as required in
said Act and a public hearing has been held as required in said Act and all
comments have been considered; and
WHEREAS, all other conditions, standards and requirements of said Act have been
satisfied;
    NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport that the City hereby adopts and approves the Cost-Justified Water and
Wastewater System Development Fees Report dated March, 2018, by McGill
Associates.
   This the 14th day of June, 2018.            City of Southport
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
12.   Public Hearing; FY 2018-2019 Budget
   City Manager Oakley stated that a full-time position is requested and would
be funded by Public Works and the Fire Department for a mechanic to work on
fire apparatus.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to go into Public
Hearing. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   There were no public comments.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to close Public Hearing.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.   
13.   Consideration; Budget Amendment #11 Forestry Committee Donations
   Alderman Mosteller motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to adopt Budget
Amendment #11. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2003_855x840.jpg]
Budget Amendment
Fiscal Year 2017-2018
Budget Amendment #11
WHEREAS, the City of Southport has Received Donations for the use of the
Forestry Committee and the Board approved a transfer of contingency funds to be
used by the Forestry committee;
WHEREAS, the City needs to appropriate these funds to be used as the Donors
have indicated, and;
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2017-2018 needs to be amended to
reflect the use of these funds by the Forestry Committee;
WHEREAS the Funds are available in the General Fund;
NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport, North
Carolina that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2017-2018 shall be
amended as follows:
Revenues:       Increase       
General Fund
10-00-3833-0000 Forestry Donations            $ 1,530
Expenditures                  Increase
10-03-4190-2402 Beautification & Forestry expense          $ 4,215
10-00-4110-9700 Board Contingency fund                     - $ 2,685         
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, June 14, 2018
                     /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor                  
/s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
14.   Consideration; Budget Amendment #12 Wastewater Asset Inventory and
Assessment Grant
   Alderman Pukenas motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to adopt Budget
Amendment #12. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2006_855x840.jpg]
Budget Amendment
Fiscal Year 2017-2018
Budget Amendment #12
WHEREAS, the City of Southport has Received a Wastewater Asset Inventory and
Assessment grant of $45,000 of which the city pays the match of $9,000
(available in contingency line of the Water & Sewer Fund) and;
WHEREAS, the City needs to appropriate for these funds to put used as the grant
indicated, and;
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2017-2018 needs to be amended to
reflect the use of these funds by the Water and Sewer Fund;
WHEREAS the Funds are available in the General Fund;
NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport, North
Carolina that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2017-2018 shall be
amended as follows:
Revenues:       Increase       
Water & Sewer Fund
31-91-3470-0890 Waste Water Asset Inv. & Assessment Grant   $ 36,000
Expenditures                  Increase
31-91-7130-5800 Capital Improvements              $ 45,000
31-91-7130-9700 Contingency              -$ 9,000          
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, June 14, 2018   
                     /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
/s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk   
15.   Consideration; Caswell Beach Fire Protection Contract & Lease
   Referencing a handout provided to each Board member, Fire Chief Drew
explained the proposal for Southport to provide fire services for Caswell Beach
and the former Yaupon Beach Fire District. He reviewed how Brunswick County,
since 1999, had funded fire service through fire fees and how the County had
chosen not to continue funding the Yaupon Beach department, which served the
smallest district in the County with annual calls of 15 per year. Chief Drew
talked of the solid 30 years working relationship the Southport Fire Department
has had with Yaupon Beach Fire Department and that as a mutual aid response
agency, Southport Fire has been responding to that district every time there
has been a call.
   Chief Drew stated that when the County decided to cut supplemental funding,
the Town of Caswell Beach reached out to Southport to provide fire protection
services. He added that the details have been worked out and the resulting
contract has been presented to the Board of Aldermen for consideration along
with a lease agreement to use the Caswell Beach Fire Station at no cost.
   Chief Drew presented a cost analysis:
Southport to receive $121,000 annually in fire fees from properties within
Caswell Beach town limits.
Southport to obtain all Yaupon Beach Fire Department assets, equipment,
apparatus and capital funds.
The new area will receive a lower ISO rating and an increased level of coverage
at a reduced cost.
The district will be covered with volunteers that will receive a stipend in
lieu of part-time employees.
   Chief Drew noted that there would be challenges but he felt confident the
challenges could be overcome with teamwork and he cited the past merger of
Southport Fire and Rescue Departments as an example.
   Chief Drew talked about the upcoming closure of the G.V. Barbee Bridge for
repair. He indicated that the Caswell Beach station would be manned with two or
three personnel and there are commitments from two Caswell Beach Public Works
employees that they will respond to any calls during working hours. Chief Drew
pointed out that some members of the Southport Fire Department live on Oak
Island.
   Responding to a query from Alderman Powell, Chief Drew stated that fire
protection services would also be provided to the N. C. Baptist Assembly.
   Chief Drew discussed the request to eliminate the ordinance that limits the
fire department membership to 50 members. He stated that there are currently 45
firefighters on the roster, 40 EMS members and 20 firefighters of Yaupon Beach
Fire Department that will be joining the Southport Fire Department.
   Alderman Sharkey asked if the Southport Fire Department would be doing fire
inspections for Caswell Beach. Chief Drew responded that fire inspections are
currently contracted out by Caswell Beach. He added that the prospect of
Southport doing the inspections could be considered in the future.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to approve the Contract
and Lease with Caswell Beach. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA
COUNTY OF BRUNSWICK          CONTRACT
   THIS CONTRACT is made and entered into this the 14th day of June, 2018 by
and between the TOWN OF CASWELL BEACH, a municipal corporation of the State of
North Carolina, hereafter called the “Town”, and the CITY OF SOUTHPORT, a
municipal corporation of the State of North Carolina , (through it’s fire
department) hereafter called the “Department”. This Contract and Agreement
shall commence on the first day of July, 2018, and run through June 30, 2019.
This contract shall automatically renew each year for an additional one year
term unless either party gives the other party a 120 day written notice of
termination.
WITNESSETH:
   In consideration of the mutual promises and covenants herein contained and
pursuant to the authority of North Carolina law, Town and Department do hereby
agree as follows:
   1.   The Department agrees to provide continuing fire protection services to
all citizens in the Town and to all real and personal property lying within the
boundaries of the Town to the extent possible within the boundaries of the
Department's manpower and equipment.
   2.   The Department agrees to dispatch, upon call of any person within the
corporate limits of the Town, the equipment necessary to answer the call with
adequate personnel to operate such equipment.
   3.   The Department and the Town jointly agree to strive to maintain a Class
six (6) insurance rating, based on the current ratings standards.
   4.   The Department shall render aid in the event of any fire within the
Town limits. If an alarm is sounded, the Department shall respond and shall not
be obligated to secure the permission of any Town Official. It shall be the
responsibility of the officer in charge of the Department to assure that all
personnel responding to the request for assistance are responsible persons, and
the conduct and actions of said personnel shall be the responsibility of the
Department. Each party to this agreement shall assume all liability and
responsibility for the death or injury to any personnel of their own command
responding to the request for aid.
   5.   All vehicles responding to a fire call shall be operated and equipped
as provided by law.
   6.   The Department shall not be bound to dispatch apparatus, equipment or
personnel to the assistance of the Town Police or the Town Emergency
Coordinator but every effort should be made to furnish such assistance if, in
the judgment of the officer in charge of the Department, such dispatch can be
made without impairing Department’s capacity to provide protection within its
own jurisdiction.
   7.   The Department shall maintain at all times adequate insurance coverage
for automobile liability, workmen’s compensation and general liability
coverage. 
   8.   The Department and the Town will cooperate at all times to see that
adequate inspection, planning, safeguards and insurance coverage are maintained
so as to the minimize the risk of liability to both the Department and the
Town.
   9.   This writing contains the entire agreement of the parties. No
representations were made or relied upon except as set forth herein. Any
amendment, addition or modification to this contract must be in writing and
signed by both parties.
   10.   Town acknowledges that it currently owns and maintains a fire station
within it’s corporate limits which it will lease to Department under a separate
lease agreement between the parties.
   11.   Town acknowledges that all fire fees collected by Brunswick County for
property lying within the corporate limits of Town will be distributed to
Department pursuant to a separate agreement between Brunswick County and City
of Southport.
   IN WITNESS WHEREOF the Town of Caswell Beach has caused this instrument to
be signed in its corporate name by its Town mayor, attested to by its Town
Clerk with its corporate seal affixed, and the City of Southport has likewise
caused this instrument to be signed in its corporate name by its City mayor,
attested to by its City Clerk with its corporate seal affixed, all on the day,
month and year first above written.
   Town of Caswell Beach            City of Southport
   BY: /s/ Deborah Ahlers, Mayor            BY: /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Chad Hicks, Town Clerk         ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, City
Clerk
STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA             LEASE
COUNTY OF BRUNSWICK
    THIS LEASE, made and entered into this 14th day of June, 2018, by and
between Town of Caswell Beach, a North Carolina municipal corporation of
Brunswick County, hereinafter called "Owner", and City of Southport, a North
Carolina municipal corporation of Brunswick County, hereinafter called
"Tenant".
W I T N E S S E T H   T H A T:
Owner hereby leases to Tenant and Tenant hereby leases from Owner the property
described below, on the terms and conditions herein set forth.
   I.   Property. The leased property, herein called "Property", is located at
1100A Caswell Beach Road, Caswell Beach, North Carolina, as more particularly
described as “Leased Premises” on Exhibit A-1 attached hereto and located
within the building depicted on Exhibit A-2 attached hereto. Excluded from the
leased Property are all other parts of the building and all other buildings,
fixtures and structures located on the land.
   II.   Term. The term of this lease begins on the first day of July, 2018,
and runs through June 30, 2019. This lease shall automatically renew each year
for additional one year terms unless either party gives the other party a 120
day written notice of termination prior to the end of the current term.
        III.   Rent. Tenant shall pay no rent, since the consideration is the
undertaking of Tenant as set forth in a separate Contract between the parties
dated June 14, 2018.
    III.    Improvements, Etc. Tenant shall make no changes, remodeling,
improvements, alterations, renovations or additions to the Property without the
Owner's prior written consent and then only in accordance with plans and
specifications previously approved in writing by Owner. Except to the extent
otherwise approved in writing by Owner, all changes, remodeling, improvements,
alterations, renovations and additions shall be at Tenant’s expense and shall
become a permanent part of the real estate (excluding Tenant’s trade fixtures)
and the property of Owner. Tenant shall pay all costs and expenses of repairing
damage to the Property caused by any installation or removal of signs and/or
trade fixtures.
   IV.    Owner's Inspection. Owner, during the term of this lease, at
reasonable times and upon reasonable notice, may enter the Property to view and
inspect it.
    V.    Use. Tenant shall use the Property as a Fire Substation to provide
fire protection services, including services to Owner pursuant to that certain
Contract between the parties dated June 14, 2018, and for no other purposes.
   VI.   Condition of Property. Tenant has inspected the Property and is
familiar with its condition and agrees that Owner has made no representation as
to condition or repair of the Property. Tenant hereby accepts the Property in
its present condition and, upon termination of this lease, will surrender the
Property in as good condition as the same now exists, ordinary wear and tear
excepted.
    VII.   Maintenance. Tenant shall maintain the leased Property and the
improvements located thereon in good order and repair, in at least as good a
condition as the same existed on the date that Tenant took possession. Tenant,
at its expense, shall perform and be responsible for (a) all routine
maintenance and repairs to said leased Property and its fixtures and personal
property located thereon and (b) all repairs to the leased Property and to
Owner’s property excluded from the leased Property (i) caused by the
installation and removal of Tenant’s fixtures and personal property or (ii)
necessary due to acts or omissions of Tenant or any of its agents, employees,
members, contractors or invitees. Tenant shall promptly make such repairs.
    VIII. Utilities. Owner shall be responsible for all utilities used in
connection with said Property including water, sewerage, garbage, electricity,
trash and telephone services.
   IX.    Insurance and Indemnity. Tenant covenants and agrees to maintain at
all times, during the term of this Lease, municipal general liability
insurance, on an "occurrence" basis (and not on a "claims made" basis), with
minimum limits of $1,000,000 per occurrence and $5,000,000 in aggregate, or be
a member of a local government pooled insurance group. Tenant agrees to
indemnify and save harmless Owner from any loss or expense arising out of any
claims asserted or actions brought against Owner based upon acts or omissions
of Tenant (but not the acts or omissions of Owner), its agents, employees,
members, contractors and invitees, in connection with Tenant's use and
occupancy of the Property, including but not limited to any claim that Tenant
is or was an agent of Owner. Owner agrees to keep and maintain fire and hazard
insurance on the Property.
X.    Fire or Casualty. If the Property is destroyed or damaged by fire, flood,
casualty or other happening so as to render the Property unfit for Tenant's use
as described herein, this Lease may be terminated by either party.
XI.    Owner's Covenant. Owner covenants that it is seized of the Property in
fee simple and has the right to execute this lease, and that Tenant, upon
fulfilling all covenants and agreements herein contained, shall peacefully and
quietly have, hold and enjoy the Property for the term of this lease.
XII.    Tenant's Covenants. Tenant shall procure all licenses and permits
required for Tenant's use and occupancy of the Property and shall comply with
all laws, regulations, and ordinances relating to the Property and its use and
shall not permit any noxious or offensive sights, odors or activities on the
Property and shall not conduct or permit any nuisances thereon. Tenant also
covenants that it will keep the inside and outside of the Property clean at all
times.
XIII. Assignment. Tenant shall not have the right to assign this lease in whole
or in part or to sublet any portion of the Property.
XIV. Default. If Tenant shall fail to perform any obligations, duties or
responsibilities for which it is liable hereunder, after fifteen days’ notice
in writing to perform such obligation then in any of said events, Owner may
terminate this lease.
XV.    Remedies on Termination; Tenant Holding Over.
      (a)    Upon expiration or termination of this lease for any reason (i)
the estate hereby granted and all rights of Tenant hereunder shall expire and
terminate, (ii) all obligations of Tenant hereunder shall continue until fully
discharged, except if Tenant terminates this lease due to Owner’s breach, then
Tenant’s obligations for maintenance under Section VII, to insure the Property
under Section IX and to procure licenses under Section XII shall terminate
(iii) Owner immediately may reenter and resume possession of the Property and
remove all persons and other property therefrom, (iv) Owner may take any other
legal action or pursue any other remedy against Tenant (including but not
limited to terminating the lease and proceeding with other remedies
concurrently) and (v) Tenant shall (A) immediately surrender and deliver
possession of the Property to Owner in the same condition in which it was at
the start of this lease, ordinary wear and tear excepted, and (B) remove within
30 days after the expiration or termination of the lease from the Property all
property (including trade fixtures and personal property) owned by Tenant and
repair any damage caused by such removal. Property not so removed shall become
the property of Owner, and Owner may thereafter cause such property to be
removed from the Property. The cost of removing and disposing of such property
and repairing any damage to the Property caused by such removal shall be paid
by Tenant to Owner on demand.
      (b)    If Tenant fails to vacate and surrender possession of the Property
at the expiration or termination of this lease, such holdover by Tenant shall
create no more than a month-to month tenancy during the period that begins on
the date this lease expires or is terminated and ends on the date on which
Tenant shall have vacated and surrendered possession in full compliance with
all terms of this lease.
      XVI. Binding Effect. This lease shall be binding upon and inure to the
benefit of all parties, their heirs, executors and administrators, successors
and assigns.
   XVII.   Notices, Consents and Waivers. All notices and other communications
given in connection with this lease must be in writing and shall be deemed
given when delivered: if to the Owner, addressed to the Town of Caswell Beach,
1100 Caswell Beach Road, Caswell Beach, NC 28465, Attention: Town Administrator
or, if to Tenant, addressed to the City of Southport, 1029 North Howe Street,
Southport, NC 28461, Attention: City Manager. This lease may not be amended,
supplemented or otherwise modified except by a written agreement executed by
the party to be charged, and the failure of either party to exercise any right
or power hereunder and the grant of any extension of time or any other
indulgence to the other party shall not constitute or be regarded as a waiver
of any of that party’s rights, powers or remedies.
   XVIII. No Agency; Limited Recourse; Miscellaneous.  
   (a)   Tenant is completely independent of Owner, is not an agent of Owner,
has no authority whatsoever to act on behalf of Owner for any purpose and is
not subject to Owner’s control in its operations as a fire department or
   otherwise. Tenant agrees it will not represent to any other entity that
Tenant is an agent of Owner.
   (b)   Any claim based on or in respect of any liability of Owner shall be
limited to actual damages and shall be enforced only against Owner and not
against its mayor or any of its commissioners, officials, employees or agents.
   (c)   This lease supersedes all prior agreements, whether written or oral,
between the parties with respect to its subject matter and constitutes a
complete and exclusive statement of the terms of the agreement between the
parties with    respect to its subject matter.
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this lease in duplicate
originals as of the day and year first above written.
Town of Caswell Beach      City of Southport
/s/ Deborah Ahlers, Mayor        /s/ J.V. Dove, Mayor
            
16.   Consideration; Junior Archaeologist Festival on the Fort Johnston
Garrison Lawn
   Parks & Recreation Director Hemphill explained that she was approached by
Mr. Kevin Mercer requesting use of the Fort Johnston Garrison lawn for an
archeological themed festival.
   Responding to questions by Alderman Sharkey, Director Hemphill stated that
Mr. Mercer did not have a date for the proposed festival, there was no
partnership with the Maritime Museum and she would not make a recommendation
for the use of the lawn for the event. She noted that there is no metal
detecting or digging permitted on the lawn and she stated her opinion that the
location would not be the best place for what is being proposed. She pointed
out that any event on the Garrison lawn that is not sponsored by the City must
be approved by the Board of Aldermen.
   Noting that the proposed event was intriguing, Alderman Sharkey motioned,
second by Alderman Mosteller for the Parks & Recreation Director to work
further with Mr. Mercer and any other interested parties on details of the
event and bring the request back to the Board of Aldermen at a future date.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
17.   Appointment to Planning Board
   Pointing out that there is a vacancy on the Planning Board for an Alternate
In-Town position, Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to
appoint John Allen, 110 W. Nash Street to the Planning Board. Unanimous vote;
motion carried.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
   Alderman Mosteller reported that the Animal Control Ordinance is under
review by the City Attorney and an opening for a full-time Animal Control/Code
Enforcement Officer has been posted.
   Alderman Mosteller reported that the Cape Fear Council of Government (CFCOG)
had been chosen for updating the Unified Development Ordinance. She stated that
negotiations were underway, once the process started, staff would be working
with West McCloud, and the City has a great working relationship with COG.
   Alderman Mosteller stated her appreciation for the comments from citizens
about traffic on Atlantic Avenue. She echoed their concerns and motioned,
second by Alderman Coring to install 4-way stop signs at N. Atlantic Avenue &
E. Brown Street. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Alderman Pukenas announced that the Zoning Board of Adjustment would be
holding a hearing on Tuesday, June 26, 4:30 p.m. at the Fire Department
Substation, 111 E. Nash Street, to consider a Conditional Use Permit request.
   Alderman Spencer reported that revisions are being considered for Chapter
10, Article VII, For-Hire Tours, of the Code of Ordinances and will be
presented to the Board at a future meeting.
PROJECT REPORTS
   City Manager Oakley reported that a preliminary audit had been received.
   City Manager Oakley reported that the CAMA application for the City Dock has
been completed and will soon be submitted. He stated that the permitting for
the dredging of the basin was being routed through the Raleigh office instead
of Wilmington but he does not foresee any problems with it being approved.
   City Manager Oakley reported that a meeting with Southport Marina had been
held outlining expectations. Per prior suggestions by Board members, City
Manager Oakley suggested setting a date for a public information session
regarding the proposed City/Southport Marina Yacht Basin project.
   Alderman Spencer asked if the entire Yacht Basin would be dredged. City
Manager Oakley responded that the North Carolina Department of Transportation
(NCDOT) had received permission to dredge the Army Corps navigational area.
   Noting the importance of transparency, Alderman Coring recommended having
the public information session about the City Dock project at the Community
Building. Mayor Dove asked for a representative from the Marina to attend the
meeting. City Manager Oakley to set up the meeting.
   City Manager Oakley reported that he and the Mayor met with the Developers
of Southport Crossing regarding a site for a new fire/rescue substation. He
stated that Fire Chief Drew is reviewing plans.
STAFF REPORTS – provided in Agenda packet
   Tourism Director Jones invited Board members to attend a volunteer
appreciation breakfast, Thursday, June 21, 8:30 a.m.
BOARD COMMENTS
   Alderman Pukenas thanked the Finance Director for her hard work preparing
the budget, working with auditors and organizing the proposed water and sewer
rate schedule.
   Noting the 4th of July is a busy time for Southport; Alderman Spencer
stressed the importance of being patient and supporting police and fire/rescue
departments.
   Alderman Sharkey wished everyone a pleasant 4th of July holiday. She shared
a compliment she had received from Keep Brunswick County Beautiful during a
recent litter survey that Southport “was immaculate.”
   Alderman Mosteller thanked Fire Chief Drew for having the Fire Department
water new plantings throughout the city. She pointed out that when the fire
hydrants are tested, the water is saved and used for watering.
ADJOURN
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to recess the meeting
until Thursday, June 27th, 5:00 p.m. in the Fire Department Emergency
Operations Center (EOC), 1011 N. Howe Street. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
JUNE 25, 2018
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  RATES WORKSHOP MINUTES
FIRE SUBSTATION    JUNE 25, 2018
111 E. NASH STREET SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
RATES WORKSHOP MINUTES
PRESENT:      Mayor J.V. Dove
         Aldermen Todd Coring, Karen Mosteller, Lora Sharkey,
         Jim Powell, Rick Pukenas, Marc Spencer
STAFF PRESENT:   Bruce Oakley, City Manager
         Michele Windham, City Clerk
         Thomas Lloyd, City Planner      
Call to Order - 5:00 p.m.
   Mayor Dove called the meeting to order at 5:00 p.m. and stated an informal
discussion would be held regarding water and sewer rates.
   City Manager Oakley stated that the System Development Report is being
further analyzed and is not ready to be adopted. He indicated that the water
and sewer development rates will significantly increase over the next two (2)
years and then will level off with a 2% annual increase.
   Mayor Dove asked members of the Rate Review Committee for their reports.
   Alderman Mosteller talked about the current residential sewer rate of
$46.50, the proposed 17% reduction and, rate increases for commercial and
residential outside the city limits. She added that there is a proposed 35%
increase to adjust the base rate in 2019, 2020 and stabilizing in 2021. She
pointed out that the rate adjustments are required in order for the City to
fund a Brunswick County Wastewater Treatment Plant expansion estimated at $25M
paid over 20 years. She noted that the City has obtained a 1.5% interest rate
on the debt.
   Mayor Dove stated that he gets questions regarding the 3,000 gallon base
minimum charged each customer. City Manager Oakley responded that the base rate
is charged for access to the system.
   Alderman Mosteller stated that the Rate Committee worked with the School of
Government (SOG) to create the proposed rate structure and be as equitable as
possible. She added that utility rates are reviewed annually.
   Alderman Powell asked the City Manager to research if the loan could be for
25 years instead of 20 years.
   Alderman Spencer asked how many customers the city serves. Alderman Pukenas
stated that there are a total of 2,516 customers which includes 280 commercial
customers.
   Alderman Sharkey, member of the Rate Review Committee, stated that the
formula applied to establish proper water and sewer rates was based on three
(3) things:
      Fixed Operating Costs
      Variable Operating Costs
      Capital Costs
   She pointed out that the City’s water and sewer lines are currently being
mapped, are very old, and will have to be replaced before they fail. She stated
that as Southport has grown, the financing of a waste water treatment plant
expansion has become a reality, all customers are paying for it, the Board is
making it as equitable as possible, and the rates will allow the city to pay
for current assets, repay the loan and accommodate growth.
   Alderman Powell talked about line repair techniques.
   Mayor Dove stated he has heard concerns about water and sewer development
(impact) fees. He asked to hear Board comments and comments of builders.
   Mr. Cameron Smith, developer, stated appreciation for further discussion
regarding the development rates. He expressed concerns about the maximum, by
law, the City is permitted to charge. He encouraged the Board to set a fair
impact fee.
   Alderman Powell emphasized the need to promote growth that will add value.
   Mr. Richard Bandera, architect, questioned irrigation rates and if the water
used for irrigation is potable water and treated the same. He contended that
irrigation usage of 10,000 gallons is charged at a lesser rate than a resident
using 3,000 gallons.
   A woman in the audience asked about the quality of the City’s water and if
the City is comfortable with the County’s treatment level and the cost.
Aldermen Powell and Sharkey pointed out that 75% of the city’s water comes from
an aquifer and 25% from the Cape Fear River. Alderman Sharkey noted that with
the discovery of GenX in the river, the County is doing a lot of testing and
plans to purchase a reserve osmosis system. The unidentified woman asked if the
rate structure would create more conservation of water useage.
   Mr. Robert Creech, 426 W. Brunswick Street, stated the proposed rates would
not promote conservation. He stated that if he used 2,000 gallons of water a
month, he should only be charged for 2,000, not the 3,000 base.
   Mr. Steve Simon, 6211 Pebble Shore Lane, agreed with Mr. Creech and he added
that his rate went up 25% when the City went to a simplified water and sewer
charge in 2017. He asked the Board to set the base rate for what is actually
used.
   Alderman Mosteller stated that the City went to a 3,000 gallon/month base
rate for water in part because of the number of second homes and that
volumetrics are trending downward.
   Mr. Creech contended that per his review of the proposed rate structure,
customers who use more water pay less. He suggested asking the Golden Leaf
Foundation for funding for the plant expansion.
   There being no further discussion, Mayor Dove adjourned the meeting at 6:00
p.m.
                        /s/ J. V. Dove,    Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
JUNE 27, 2018
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN   RECESSED SESSION MINUTES
FIRE HEADQUARTERS   JUNE 27, 2018
1011 N. HOWE STREET SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
RECESSED SESSION MINUTES
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Karen Mosteller, Lora Sharkey, Jim Powell, Todd Coring,
Marc Spencer, Rick Pukenas
STAFF PRESENT:      Bruce Oakley, City Manager
         Michele Windham, City Clerk
         David Fox, Public Works Director
         Gary Smith, Police Chief
         Charles Drew, Fire Chief
         Randy Jones, Tourism Director
         B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
         Thomas Lloyd, Planner
A)   Call to Order – 5:00 p.m.
   Mayor Dove called the meeting back to order at 5:00 p.m.
ADOPTION OF FY 2018-2019 OPERATING BUDGET
   City Manager Oakley stated that the only change to the proposed FY 2018-2019
operating budget was the addition of a mechanic position funded by Public Works
and the Fire Department.
   Alderman Powell requested a change to the budget under Board Salaries. He
asked for $350 to be added to the monthly stipend. He stated that the last
Board increase was in 2004, and there was a $400 supplement given to Board
members in 2015 towards health insurance.
   Mayor Dove polled Board members for their thoughts on Alderman Powell’s
request.
   Alderman Coring:   No issue with request
   Alderman Mosteller:    Preferred nothing added to the budget
   Alderman Sharkey:   Reluctant to increase the Board’s stipend. Would rather
allocate                for a project.
   Alderman Spencer   The raise would accommodate for vehicle mileage; had no
issues                with Alderman Powell’s request
   Alderman Pukenas   Was surprised to receive any pay. Would rather allocate
for a                project.
   Mayor Dove      Would exempt himself if adopted
   Alderman Spencer asked if the employees were provided for. City Manager
Oakley stated that the budget would include a 2% Cost of Living Allowance
(COLA) and 1% towards merit increases.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Spencer to add $350/month to
Board members’ stipend and exempting the Mayor from receiving the additional
stipend.
   Aye:   Aldermen Powell, Spencer, Coring
   Nay:   Alderman Mosteller, Pukenas, Sharkey
      TIE
   Aye:   Mayor Dove to break the tie
Motion carried 4-3
   Mayor Dove polled Board members for their thoughts on the proposed FY 2018-
2019 Operating Budget.
   Alderman Pukenas:   Fine with budget as presented.
   Alderman Spencer:   Clarified that employees received a COLA and funding for
merit                increases.
   Alderman Sharkey:   Clarified that a full-time position in the garage was
added for                working on fire apparatus.
   Aldermen Powell motioned, second by Alderman Sharkey to adopt FY 2018-2019
Operating Budget. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2009_1118x1070.jpg]  
BUDGET ORDINANCE - FISCAL YEAR 2018-2019
CITY OF SOUTHPORT
BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that, following a duly advertised public hearing, the following
annual budget ordinance is adopted to estimate revenues and make appropriations
for the financial operations of the City of Southport for the fiscal year
beginning July 1, 2018, and ending June 30, 2019.
SECTION I. GENERAL FUND
Anticipated Revenues. The following revenues are estimated to be available in
the General Fund for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2018, and ending June
30, 2019:
Ad Valorem Taxes - PY                $2,474,416
Local Option Sales Tax                968,208
Room Occupancy Tax                       100,000
Utility Franchise Tax                369,000
Miscellaneous Tax and Permits              26,500
Permit and Inspection Fees                 239,500
Fire inspections & permit fees               1,305,869
Rescue - Transport Fees                     195,000
Police - Misc Grants                           5,000
Refuse Collection Fees & Tax                 241,600
Parks & Recreation .Grants                       32,000
Tourism – Miscellaneous                         10,000
Interest Earnings                           6,100
Community Building Rentals                             90,000
Sale of Fixed Assets                         12,000
ABC Revenue - Law Enforcement                  238,000
      Powell Bill Distribution                      113,783
   FEMA Reimbursement                124,098   
Proceeds from Financing                     291,902
Appropriated Fund Balance                 227,450
Total Revenues                $7,070,426
B. Expenditures. The following amounts are hereby appropriated in the General
Fund for the expenses of the city government and its activities for the fiscal
year beginning July 1, 2018, and ending June 30, 2019:
Governing Body                        $   298,983
Administration                           360,046
Finance                              259,698
Solid Waste                         240,000
Buildings and Grounds                      673,817
Garage                              225,977
Police                            1,128,019
Fire                            1,712,761
Planning & Inspections                        373,629
Streets                               348,458
Parks and Recreation                        940,681
Community Building                        158,732
Tourism                              224,842
Powell Bill                           124,783
 
Total Expenditures                     $ 7,070,426
                  
SECTION II. ELECTRIC FUND
Anticipated Revenues. The following revenues are estimated to be available in
the Electric Fund for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2018, and ending June
30, 2019:
Electricity Sales                                   7,400,000
Utility Sales Taxes                         518,000
Service Charges                         44,800
Other Revenues                                  1,000
Total Revenues                        $ 7,963,800
Expenditures. The following amounts are hereby appropriated in the Electric
Fund for expenses for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2018, and ending June
30, 2019:
Total Expenditures                     $ 7,963,800
SECTION III. WATER AND SEWER FUND
Anticipated Revenues. The following revenues are estimated to be available in
the Water and Sewer Fund for the fiscal year beginning:
Water                         $ 1,573,000      
Sewer Sales                               2,121,186
Water/Sewer Tap Fees                      35,000
State Grant                         90,800
Service Charges                            9,000
Interest Income                                     1,000
Miscellaneous Revenues                      19,751
Transfer System Development Fund                         125,000
Total Revenues                        $ 3,974,737
Expenditures. The following amounts are hereby appropriated in the Water and
Sewer Fund for expenses for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2018, and ending
June 30, 2019:
Total Expenditures                     $ 3,974,737
SECTION IV. SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT FEE FUND
A. Anticipated Revenues. The following amounts are appropriated in the System
Development Capital Reserve Fund for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2018,
and ending June 30, 2019:
Sewer Development Fees                   $ 90,000
Water Development Fees                     35,000
                            $ 125,000
B. Expenditures. The following amounts are hereby appropriated in the System
Development Capital Reserve Fund for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2018,
and ending June 30, 2019.
   Transfer to Water and Sewer Fund                $ 125,000       
SECTION V. TAX RATE
There is hereby levied, for fiscal year 2018-2019, a tax at the rate of $0.2956
on each one hundred dollars ($100) of assessed valuation of property located
within the City of Southport for the purpose of raising revenue in the General
Fund. The assessed value of property is $784,569,252.
SECTION VI. BUDGET OFFICER AUTHORITY
The city manager (budget officer) is hereby authorized to transfer
appropriations within a fund and between funds under the following terms:
He may transfer amounts between appropriations within the same fund, provided
that a report of such transfers shall be made no later than the next regular
financial report to the Board of Aldermen.
He may authorize temporary transfers of cash among funds as necessary to meet
cash flow needs.
All other transfers of funds between appropriations or budget funds shall be
accomplished by Board amendment of this ordinance.
SECTION IX. CONTINUING AUTHORIZATION
Prior year Capital Reserve Fund is no longer a restriction of Fund Balance.
Previously-adopted capital project budgets, grant project budgets, and special
reserve funds are hereby un-authorized as all such projects have been completed
and all monies shall be returned to the associated funds upon adoption of the
Budget ordinance.
SECTION X. BUDGET IMPLEMENTATION
This ordinance and the supporting budget document shall be the basis of the
financial plan for the City of Southport municipal government for the 2018-2019
fiscal year. The budget officer shall administer the budget and shall insure
the finance officer and department heads of the city are provided with
sufficient guidance to properly implement this plan. Copies of the budget
ordinance shall be furnished to the city manager and the finance officer for
their use and direction in the disbursement of funds and to the city clerk for
the official records of the city.
SECTION XI. ADOPTION
This ordinance has been adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in special
session on June 27, 2018, upon the motion of Alderman Powell and the second of
Alderman Sharkey, with a vote of six (6) ayes and 0 noes, and shall be
effective July 1, 2018.
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk   
RESOLUTION ADOPTING SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT FEES REPORT
   City Manager Oakley stated that the revised system development fees report
under consideration by the Board lowered the maximum development fee for a
three bedroom home by approximately $1,100 less than the original report.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Spencer to Rescind Adoption of
the Systems Development Fees Report adopted June 14, 2018 dated March, 2018.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to Adopt the Revised
System Development Fees Report dated June, 2018. Unanimous vote; motion
carried.
RESOLUTION ADOPTING SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT FEES REPORT
   THAT WHEREAS, Session Law 2017-138 (House Bill 436) known as the “Public
Water and Sewer System Development Fee Act” sets certain standards and
limitations before a city may adopt a system development fee for water and
sewer service; and
   WHEREAS, said Act requires that a system development fee be established only
after written analysis prepared by a qualified financial professional or
qualified licensed professional engineer in a manner as set forth in said Act;
and
   WHEREAS, the City of Southport has retained McGill Associates, a qualified
and licensed professional engineer and consulting firm, to perform said
analysis in accordance with said Act; and
   WHEREAS, McGill Associates has performed said analysis and delivered a
written report dated March, 2018, to the City of Southport pursuant to said
Act; and
   WHEREAS, the analysis was posted on the City’s website as required in said
Act and a public hearing was held as required by said Act and all comments were
considered; and
WHEREAS, all other conditions, standards and requirements of said Act were
satisfied; and
WHEREAS, on June 14, 2018, in accordance with said Act, the Board of Aldermen
adopted a Resolution approving the Cost-Justified Water and Wastewater System
Development Fees Report dated March, 2018, by McGill Associates; and
WHEREAS, it has now come to the attention of the Board of Aldermen that there
was an error in the calculations set forth in the Cost-Justified Water and
Wastewater System Development Fees Report dated March, 2018, and the Report has
now been revised by McGill Associates to correct said error; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary for the Board of Aldermen to rescind the prior
resolution and approve the Report as now revised;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport that the City hereby rescinds the Resolution dated June 14, 2018,
approving the Cost-Justified Water and Wastewater System Development Fees
Report dated March, 2018, by McGill Associates, and the Board hereby now adopts
and approves the Revised Cost-Justified Water and Wastewater System Development
Fees Report dated June, 2018, by McGill Associates .
   This the 27th day of June, 2018.         City of Southport
                     /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
ATTEST:   /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk                        
ORDINANCE ADOPTING SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT FEES
   City Manager Oakley explained that the City is required by the State to
adopt system development fees by July 1. He indicated that reinstating the pre-
recession development fee rates would be a starting point, is equitable and a
review of the rates could be revisited at any time.
   Alderman Powell stated that during the recession, the Board cut impact
(development) fees to the current rates. He pointed out that the area is
experiencing growth again and he felt returning to the prior fees would be
affordable. He recommended setting the sewer development fee for a 3-bedroom
house at $7,200.
   Alderman Mosteller agreed with Alderman Powell that the $7,200 per 3
bedrooms is a good place to start with the development fee as there is history
of operating at that level.
   Noting she was relying on the people that were here before her and that the
fees were set and used consistently vs. using something arbitrarily, Alderman
Sharkey endorsed the $7,200 rate.
   Alderman Spencer stated he wanted a moderate number to sustain growth. He
added that the $7,200 proposed rate should be reviewed in the future to ensure
it is enough to cover the City’s costs and is not having a negative impact on
building.
   Alderman Pukenas agreed and stated his opinion that $7,200 is an equitable
number for everyone.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to adopt the Ordinance
Adopting System Development Fees and setting the sewer development fee for a
residential unit (3 bedroom home with 360 gallons per day flow) at $7,200.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
ORDINANCE ADOPTING SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT FEES
   THAT WHEREAS, the North Carolina General Assembly amended Chapter 162A of
the General Statutes by adding Article 8 entitled “Public Water and Sewer
System Development Fee Act”; and
   WHEREAS, this Article established a uniform approach and associated
methodology required for local governments to calculate and implement system
development fees for public water and sewer systems; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to Article 8 of Chapter 162A of the General Statutes, the
City of Southport hired McGill Associates, a qualified and licensed
professional engineer and consulting firm, to perform the analysis in
accordance with said Article and the City has adopted and approved the Revised
Cost-Justified Water and Wastewater System Development Fees Report dated June,
2018, by McGill Associates; and
WHEREAS, the City has complied with all conditions, standards and requirements
set forth in said Article and now desires to set a system development fee for
water and sewer service in accordance with Article 8 of Chapter 162A; and
WHEREAS, in accordance with said Article, the Revised Cost-Justified Water and
Wastewater System Development Fees Report calculated the development fee for
water and sewer for an Equivalent Residential Unit (3 bedroom single family
residence) to be $ 16,452.80 based upon a $ 4.25 GPD cost of capacity for water
and $ 40.98 GPD cost of capacity for sewer; and
WHEREAS, after careful review and consideration, the Board of Aldermen has
determined that the development fees should be established as hereinafter set
forth:
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport as follows:
That the City of Southport hereby sets a system development fee for its water
system for a Residential Equivalent Unit (3 bedroom home with 400 gallons per
day flow) at $744.00 based upon a $1.86 GPD cost of capacity .
That the City of Southport hereby sets a system development fee for its sewer
system for a Residential Equivalent Unit (3 bedroom home with 360 gallons per
day flow) at $6458.40 based upon a $17.94 GPD cost of capacity.
That the water and sewer development fees for other types of development be
calculated by applying the calculated cost of capacity per gallon of flow per
day set forth above to the water and wastewater demands for various uses
determined in accordance with the North Carolina Administrative Code flow rate
tables.
That a Capital Reserve Fund shall be established pursuant to Part 2 of Article
3 of Chapter 159 of the General Statutes and limited as to expenditure of funds
in accordance with G.S. 162A-211.
That the System Development Fee shall be collected in accordance with G.S.
162A-213.
That all ordinances in conflict with this ordinance are hereby repealed and
rescinded.
This the 27th day of June, 2018.            City of Southport
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
RESOLUTION FOR THE CLOSING OF CAPITAL PROJECT BUDGET ORDINANCE FOR THE CITY OF
SOUTHPORT’S BUILDING CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT FUND
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Powell to approve the
Resolution For The Closing of Capital Project Budget Ordinance For The City of
Southport’s Building Capital Improvement Fund. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2012_1256x1167.jpg]
 
RESOLUTION FOR THE CLOSING OF CAPITAL PROJECT BUDGET ORDINANCE FOR THE CITY OF
SOUTHPORT’S BUILDING CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT FUND
WHEREAS, the Aldermen for the City of Southport pursuant to Section 13.2 of
Chapter 159 of the General Statues of North Carolina created a Capital Project
Ordinance adopted on the 13th day of December, 2012 for the purchase of 1029 N
Howe St.
WHEREAS, the funds for the Southport Building Capital Improvement Fund, at a
projected cost of $1,933,200 were appropriated from the General Fund in
accordance with the Ordinances for the City of Southport and Section 22 of
Chapter 159 of the General Statues of North Carolina; and
WHEREAS, the actual expenditure of funds for Southport Building Capital
Improvement Fund totaled $1,931,926 leaving a balance of 1,274. with all costs
of the project being accounted for;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE ALDERMEN OF THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT, that
the Capital Project Ordinance for the Southport Building Capital Improvement
Fund be closed and the $1,274 balance of appropriated funds be unappropriated
and made readily available in the City of Southport’s general fund.
The foregoing resolution was adopted by the city of Southport on June 27,
2018.               
                       /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
RESOLUTION ADOPTING PROCUREMENT POLICIES
   City Manager Oakley stated that the proposed Procurement Policies were
requested by the City’s Auditor and will codify current procedures.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Sharkey to adopt the Uniform
Guidance Procurement Policy and Uniform Guidance Conflict of Interest Policy.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
City of Southport
Uniform Guidance Procurement Policy (UGPP)
Effective July 1, 2018
I. Purpose
The purpose of this Policy is to establish guidelines that meet or exceed the
procurement requirements for purchases of goods (apparatus, supplies,
materials, and equipment), services, and construction or repair projects when
federal funds are being used in whole or in part to pay for the cost of the
contract.
II. Policy
Application of Policy. This policy applies to contracts for purchases,
services, and construction or repair work funded with federal financial
assistance (direct or reimbursed). The requirements of this Policy also apply
to any subrecipient of the funds.
All federally funded projects, loans, grants, and sub-grants, whether funded in
part or wholly, are subject to the Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost
Principles, and Audit Requirements for federal awards (Uniform Guidance)
codified at 2 C.F.R. Part 200 unless otherwise directed in writing by the
federal agency or state pass-through agency that awarded the funds.
Compliance with Federal Law. All procurement activities involving the
expenditure of federal funds must be conducted in compliance with the
Procurement Standards codified in 2 C.F.R. § 200.317 through § 200-326 unless
otherwise directed in writing by the federal agency or state pass-through
agency that awarded the funds. City of Southport will follow all applicable
local, state, and federal procurement requirements when expending federal
funds. Should the City of Southport have more stringent requirements, the most
restrictive requirement shall apply so long as it is consistent with state and
federal law.
Contract Award. All contracts shall be awarded only to the lowest responsive
responsible bidder possessing the ability to perform successfully under the
terms and conditions of the contract.
No Evasion. No contract may be divided to bring the cost under bid thresholds
or to evade any requirements under this Policy or state and federal law.
Contract Requirements. All contracts paid for in whole or in part with federal
funds shall be in writing. The written contract must include or incorporate by
reference the provisions required under 2 C.F.R § 200.326 and as provided for
under 2 C.F.R. Part 200, Appendix II.
Contractors’ Conflict of Interest. Designers, suppliers, and contractors that
assist in the development or drafting of specifications, requirements,
statements of work, invitation for bids or requests for proposals shall be
excluded from competing for such requirements.
Approval and Modification. The administrative procedures contained in this
Policy are administrative and may be changed as necessary at the staff level to
comply with state and federal law.
III. General Procurement Standards and Procedures:
Either the Purchasing Department or the Requesting Department shall procure all
contracts in accordance with the requirements of this Section of the Policy.
Necessity. Purchases must be necessary to perform the scope of work and must
avoid acquisition of unnecessary or duplicative items. The Purchasing
Department and/or the Requesting Department should check with the federal
surplus property agency prior to buying new items when feasible and less
expensive. Strategic sourcing should be considered with other departments and/
or agencies who have similar needs to consolidate procurements and services to
obtain better pricing.
Clear Specifications. All solicitations must incorporate a clear and accurate
description of the technical requirements for the materials, products, or
services to be procured, and shall include all other requirements which bidders
must fulfill and all other factors to be used in evaluating bids or proposals.
Technical requirements must not contain features that restrict competition.
Notice of Federal Funding. All bid solicitations must acknowledge the use of
federal funding for the contract. In addition, all prospective bidders or
offerors must acknowledge that funding is contingent upon compliance with all
terms and conditions of the funding award.
Compliance by Contractors. All solicitations shall inform prospective
contractors that they must comply with all applicable federal laws,
regulations, executive orders, and terms and conditions of the funding award.
Fixed Price. Solicitations must state that bidders shall submit bids on a fixed
price basis and that the contract shall be awarded on this basis unless
otherwise provided for in this Policy. Cost plus percentage of cost contracts
are prohibited. Time and materials contracts are prohibited in most
circumstances. Time and materials contracts will not be used unless no other
form of contract is suitable and the contract includes a “Not to Exceed”
amount. A time and materials contract shall not be awarded without express
written permission of the federal agency or state pass-through agency that
awarded the funds.
Use of Brand Names. When possible, performance or functional specifications are
preferred to allow for more competition leaving the determination of how the
reach the required result to the contractor. Brand names may be used only when
it is impractical or uneconomical to write a clear and accurate description of
the requirement(s). When a brand name is listed, it is used as reference only
and “or equal” must be included in the description.
Lease versus Purchase. Under certain circumstances, it may be necessary to
perform an analysis of lease versus purchase alternatives to determine the most
economical approach.
Dividing Contract for M/WBE Participation. If economically feasible,
procurements may be divided into smaller components to allow maximum
participation of small and minority businesses and women business enterprises.
The procurement cannot be divided to bring the cost under bid thresholds or to
evade any requirements under this Policy.
Documentation. Documentation must be maintained by the Purchasing Department
and/or the Requesting Department detailing the history of all procurements. The
documentation should include the procurement method used, contract type, basis
for contractor selection, price, sources solicited, public notices, cost
analysis, bid documents, addenda, amendments, contractor’s responsiveness,
notice of award, copies of notices to unsuccessful bidders or offerors, record
of protests or disputes, bond documents, notice to proceed, purchase order, and
contract. All documentation relating to the award of any contract must be made
available to the granting agency upon request.
Cost Estimate. For all procurements costing $150,000 or more, the Purchasing
Department and/or Requesting Department shall develop an estimate of the cost
of the procurement prior to soliciting bids. Cost estimates may be developed by
reviewing prior contract costs, online review of similar products or services,
or other means by which a good faith cost estimate may be obtained. Cost
estimates for construction and repair contracts may be developed by the project
designer.
Contract Requirements. The Requesting Department must prepare a written
contract incorporating the provisions referenced in Section II.C of this
Policy.
Debarment. No contract shall be awarded to a contractor included on the
federally debarred bidder’s list.
Contractor Oversight. The Requesting Department receiving the federal funding
must maintain oversight of the contract to ensure that contractor is performing
in accordance with the contract terms, conditions, and specifications.
Open Competition. Solicitations shall be prepared in a way to be fair and
provide open competition. The procurement process shall not restrict
competition by imposing unreasonable requirements on bidders, including but not
limited to unnecessary supplier experience, excessive or unnecessary bonding,
specifying a brand name without allowing for “or equal” products, or other
unnecessary requirements that have the effect of restricting competition.
Geographic Preference. No contract shall be awarded on the basis of a
geographic preference.
IV. Specific Procurement Procedures  
Either the Purchasing Department or the Requesting Department shall solicit
bids in accordance with the requirements under this Section of the Policy based
on the type and cost of the contract.
Service Contracts (except for A/E professional services) and Purchase
Contracts  costing less than $3,500 shall be procured using the Uniform
Guidance “micro-purchase” procedure (2 C.F.R. § 200.320(a)) as follows:
The contract may be awarded without soliciting pricing or bids if the price of
the goods or services is considered to be fair and reasonable.
To the extent practicable, purchases must be distributed among qualified
suppliers.
Service Contracts (except for A/E professional services) and Purchase
Contracts  costing $3,500 up to $90,000 shall be procured using the Uniform
Guidance “small purchase” procedure (2 C.F.R. § 200.320(b)) as follows:
Obtain price or rate quotes from an “adequate number” of qualified sources (a
federal grantor agency might issue guidance interpreting “adequate number,” so
the Requesting Department should review the terms and conditions of the grant
award documents to confirm whether specific guidance has been issued).
Take affirmative steps to solicit price quotes from M/WBE vendors and suppliers
as required under 2 C.F.R. § 200.321.
Cost or price analysis is not required prior to soliciting bids.
Award the contract on a fixed-price basis (a not-to-exceed basis is permissible
for service contracts where obtaining a fixed price is not feasible).
Award the contract to the lowest responsive, responsible bidder.
Service Contracts (except for A/E professional services) and Purchase
Contracts  costing $90,000 and above shall be procured using a combination of
the most restrictive requirements of the Uniform Guidance “sealed bid”
procedure (2 C.F.R. § 200.320(c)) and state formal bidding procedures (G.S.
143-129) as follows:
Cost or price analysis is required prior to soliciting bids.
Complete specifications or purchase description must be made available to all
bidders.
The bid must be formally advertised in a newspaper of general circulation for
at least seven full days between the date of the advertisement and the date of
the public bid opening. Electronic-only advertising must be authorized by the
governing board. The advertisement must state the date, time, and location of
the public bid opening, indicate where specifications may be obtained, and
reserve to the governing board the right to reject any or all bids only for
“sound documented reasons.”
Take affirmative steps to solicit price quotes from M/WBE vendors and suppliers
as required under 2 C.F.R. § 200.321.
Open bids at the public bid opening on the date, time, and at the location
noticed in the public advertisement. All bids must be submitted sealed. A
minimum of 2 bids must be received in order to open all bids.
Award the contract to the lowest responsive, responsible bidder on a fixed-
price basis. Governing board approval is required for purchase contracts unless
the governing board has delegated award authority to an individual official or
employee. Any and all bids may be rejected only for “sound documented reasons.”
Service Contracts (except for A/E professional services) costing $150,000 and
above may be procured using the Uniform Guidance “competitive proposal”
procedure (2 C.F.R. § 200.320(d)) when the “sealed bid” procedure is not
appropriate for the particular type of service being sought. The procedures are
as follows:
A Request for Proposals (RFP) must be publicly advertised. Formal advertisement
in a newspaper is not required so long as the method of advertisement will
solicit proposals from an “adequate number” of qualified firms.
Take affirmative steps to solicit price quotes from M/WBE vendors and suppliers
as provided under 2 C.F.R. § 200.321.
Identify evaluation criteria and relative importance of each criteria (criteria
weight) in the RFP.
Consider all responses to the publicized RFP to the maximum extent practical.
Must have a written method for conducting technical evaluations of proposals
and selecting the winning firm.
Award the contract to the responsible firm with most advantageous proposal
taking into account price and other factors identified in the RFP. Governing
board approval is not required.
Award the contract on a fixed-price or cost-reimbursement basis.
Construction and repair contracts costing less than $3,500 shall be procured
using the Uniform Guidance “micro-purchase” procedure (2 C.F.R. § 200.320(a))
as follows:
The contract may be awarded without soliciting pricing or bids if the price of
the goods or services is considered to be fair and reasonable.
To the extent practicable, contracts must be distributed among qualified
suppliers.
Construction and repair contracts costing $3,500 up to $150,000 shall be
procured using the Uniform Guidance “small purchase” procedure (2 C.F.R. §
200.320(b)) as follows:
Obtain price or rate quotes from an “adequate number” of qualified sources (a
federal grantor agency might issue guidance interpreting “adequate number,” so
the requesting department should review the terms and conditions of the grant
award documents to confirm whether specific guidance has been issued).
Take affirmative steps to solicit price quotes from M/WBE vendors and suppliers
as required under 2 C.F.R. § 200.321.
Cost or price analysis is not required prior to soliciting bids, although price
estimates may be provided by the project designer.
Award the contract on a fixed-price or not-to-exceed basis.
Award the contract to the lowest responsive, responsible bidder. Governing
board approval is not required.
Construction and repair contracts costing $150,000 up to $500,000 shall be
procured using the Uniform Guidance “sealed bid” procedure (2 C.F.R. § 200.320
(c)) as follows:
Cost or price analysis is required prior to soliciting bids (this cost estimate
may be provided by the project designer).
Complete specifications must be made available to all bidders.
Publically advertise the bid solicitation for a period of time sufficient to
give bidders notice of opportunity to submit bids (formal advertisement in a
newspaper is not required so long as other means of advertising will provide
sufficient notice of the opportunity to bid). The advertisement must state the
date, time, and location of the public bid opening, and indicate where
specifications may be obtained.
Take affirmative steps to solicit price quotes from M/WBE vendors and suppliers
as provided under 2 C.F.R. § 200.321.
Open the bids at the public bid opening on the date, time, and at the location
noticed in the public advertisement. All bids must be submitted sealed. A
minimum of 2 bids must be received in order to open all bids.
A 5% bid bond is required of all bidders. Performance and payment bonds of 100%
of the contract price is required of the winning bidder.
Award the contract on a firm fixed-price basis.
Award the contract to the lowest responsive, responsible bidder. Governing
board approval is not required. Any and all bids may be rejected only for
“sound documented reasons.”
Construction and repair contracts  costing $500,000 and above shall be procured
using a combination of the most restrictive requirements of the Uniform
Guidance “sealed bid” procedure (2 C.F.R. § 200.320(c)) and state formal
bidding procedures (G.S. 143-129) as follows:
Cost or price analysis is required prior to soliciting bids (this cost estimate
should be provided by the project designer).
Complete specifications must be made available to all bidders.
Formally advertise the bid in a newspaper of general circulation for at least
seven full days between the date of the advertisement and the date of the
public bid opening. Electronic-only advertising must be authorized by the
governing board. The advertisement must state the date, time, and location of
the public bid opening, indicate where specifications may be obtained, and
reserve to the governing board the right to reject any or all bids only for
“sound documented reasons.”
Take affirmative steps to solicit price quotes from M/WBE vendors and suppliers
as provided under 2 C.F.R. § 200.321.
Open the bids at the public bid opening on the date, time, and at the location
noticed in the public advertisement. All bids must be submitted sealed and in
paper form. A minimum of 3 bids must be received in order to open all bids.
A 5% bid bond is required of all bidders (a bid that does not include a bid
bond cannot be counted toward the 3-bid minimum requirement). Performance and
payment bonds of 100% of the contract price is required of the winning bidder.
Award the contract on a firm fixed-price basis.
Award the contract to the lowest responsive, responsible bidder. Governing
board approval is required and cannot be delegated. The governing board may
reject and all bids only for “sound documented reasons.”
Construction or repair contracts involving a building costing $300,000 and
above must comply with the following additional requirements under state law:
Formal HUB (historically underutilized business) participation required under
G.S. 143-128.2, including local government outreach efforts and bidder good
faith efforts, shall apply.
Separate specifications shall be drawn for the HVAC, electrical, plumbing, and
general construction work as required under G.S. 143-128(a).
The project shall be bid using a statutorily authorized bidding method
(separate-prime, single-prime, or dual bidding) as required under G.S. 143-129
(a1).
Contracts for Architectural and Engineering Services costing under $150,000
shall be procured using the state “Mini-Brooks Act” requirements (G.S. 143-
64.31) as follows:
Issue a Request for Qualifications (RFQ) to solicit qualifications from
qualified firms (formal advertisement in a newspaper is not required). Price
(other than unit cost) shall not be solicited in the RFQ.
Take affirmative steps to solicit price quotes from M/WBE vendors and suppliers
as provided for under 2 C.F.R. § 200.321.
Evaluate the qualifications of respondents based on the evaluation criteria
developed by the Purchasing Department and/or Requesting Department.
Rank respondents based on qualifications and select the best qualified firm.
Price cannot be a factor in the evaluation. Preference may be given to in-state
(but not local) firms.
Negotiate fair and reasonable compensation with the best qualified firm. If
negotiations are not successfully, repeat negotiations with the second-best
qualified firm.
Award the contract to best qualified firm with whom fair and reasonable
compensation has been successfully negotiated. Governing board approval is not
required.
Contracts for Architectural and Engineering Services costing $150,000 or more
shall be procured using the Uniform Guidance “competitive proposal” procedure
(2 C.F.R. § 200.320(d)(5)) as follows:
Publically advertise a Request for Qualifications (RFQ) to solicit
qualifications from qualified firms (formal advertisement in a newspaper is not
required). Price (other than unit cost) shall not be solicited in the RFQ.
Take affirmative steps to solicit price quotes from M/WBE vendors and suppliers
as provided under 2 C.F.R. § 200.321.
Identify the evaluation criteria and relative importance of each criteria (the
criteria weight) in the RFQ.
Proposals must be solicited from an “adequate number of qualified sources” (an
individual federal grantor agency may issue guidance interpreting “adequate
number”).
Must have a written method for conducting technical evaluations of proposals
and selecting the best qualified firm.
Consider all responses to the publicized RFQ to the maximum extent practical.
Evaluate qualifications of respondents to rank respondents and select the most
qualified firm. Preference may be given to in-state (but not local) firms
provided that granting the preference leaves an appropriate number of qualified
firms to compete for the contract given the nature and size of the project.
Price cannot be a factor in the initial selection of the most qualified firm.
Once the most qualified firm is selected, negotiate fair and reasonable
compensation. If negotiations are not successfully, repeat negotiations with
the second-best qualified firm.
Award the contract to best qualified firm with whom fair and reasonable
compensation has been successfully negotiated. Governing board approval is not
required.
V. Exceptions
Non-competitive contracts are allowed only  under the following conditions and
with the written approval of the federal agency or state pass-through agency
that awarded the federal funds:
Sole Source. A contract may be awarded without competitive bidding when the
item is available from only one source. The Purchasing Department and/or
Requesting Department shall document the justification for and lack of
available competition for the item. A sole source contract must be approved by
the governing board.
Public Exigency. A contract may be awarded without competitive bidding when
there is a public exigency. A public exigency exists when there is an imminent
or actual threat to public health, safety, and welfare, and the need for the
item will not permit the delay resulting from a competitive bidding.
Inadequate Competition. A contract may be awarded without competitive bidding
when competition is determined to be inadequate after attempts to solicit bids
from a number of sources as required under this Policy does not result in a
qualified winning bidder.
Federal Contract. A contract may be awarded without competitive bidding when
the purchase is made from a federal contract available on the U.S. General
Services Administration schedules of contracts. 
Awarding Agency Approval.  A contract may be awarded without competitive
bidding with the express written authorization of the federal agency or state
pass-through agency that awarded the federal funds so long as awarding the
contract without competition is consistent with state law.
City of Southport
Uniform Guidance Conflict of Interst Policy
Effective July 1, 2018
Purpose
The purpose of this policy is to establish conflicts of interest guidelines
that meet or exceed the requirements under state law and local policy when
procuring goods (apparatus, supplies, materials, and equipment), services, and
construction or repair projects paid for in part or whole by federal funds and
required under 2 C.F.R. § 200.318(c)(1).
Policy
This policy applies when procuring goods (apparatus, supplies, materials, and
equipment), services, and construction or repair projects funded in part or
whole with federal financial assistance (direct or reimbursed). This policy
also applies to any subrecipient of the funds.
The employee responsible for managing the federal financial assistance award
shall review the notice of award to identify any additional conflicts of
interest prohibitions or requirements associated with the award, and shall
notify all employees, officers, and agents, including subrecipients, of the
requirements of this policy and any additional prohibitions or requirements.
Conflicts of Interest. In addition to the prohibition against self-benefiting
from a public contract under G.S. 14-234, no officer, employee, or agent of the
City of Southport may participate directly or indirectly in the selection,
award, or administration of a contract supported by a federal award if he or
she has a real or apparent conflict of interest. A real or apparent conflict
exists when any of the following parties has a financial or other interest in
or receives a tangible personal benefit from a firm considered for award of a
contract:
   the employee, officer, or agent involved in the selection, award, or
administration of a contract;
   any member of his or her immediate family;
   his or her partner; or
   an organization which employs or is about to employ any of these parties.
Any officer, employee, or agent with an actual, apparent, or potential conflict
of interest as defined in this policy shall report the conflict to his or her
immediate supervisor. Any such conflict shall be disclosed in writing to the
federal award agency or pass-through entity in accordance with applicable
Federal awarding agency policy.
Gifts. In addition to the prohibition against accepting gifts and favors from
vendors and contractors under G.S. 133-32, officers, employees, and agents of
the City of Southport are prohibited from accepting or soliciting gifts,
gratuities, favors, or anything of monetary value from contractors, suppliers,
or parties to subcontracts. Items of nominal value valued at less than $100
which fall into one of the following categories may be accepted:
   promotional items;
   honorariums for participation in meetings; or
   meals furnished at banquets.
Any officer, employee or agent who knowingly accepts an item of nominal value
allowed under this policy shall report the item to his or her immediate
supervisor.
Violation
Employees violating this policy will be subject to discipline up to and
including termination. Contractors violating this policy will result in
termination of the contract and may not be eligible for future contract awards.
Board Comments
   Alderman Powell talked about the visit earlier in the day by the North
Carolina Department of Transportation officials, including the Secretary of the
Department. Alderman Powell stated that beneficial connections were created and
valuable conversations held.
   With a heavy heart, Mayor Dover reported that former Mayor Norman Holden had
died and services would be held graveside, Friday, June 29, 11:00 a.m.
Adjournment
   Alderman Powell motioned to adjourn the meeting, second by Alderman Pukenas.
Unanimous vote; motion carried. 
                  /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: Michele Windham, Clerk
JULY 12, 2018
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING JULY 12, 2018
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Karen Mosteller, Lora Sharkey, Jim Powell,
            Todd Coring, Marc Spencer, Rick Pukenas
STAFF PRESENT:      Bruce Oakley, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
   Gary Smith, Police Chief
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
   Randy Jones, Tourism Director
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   Thomas Lloyd, Planner
   Tom Stanley, Public Works Supervisor
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Dove called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Spencer welcomed everyone and Mayor Dove gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Spencer led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
SPECIAL RECOGNITION
   The Board publicly recognized those that tirelessly worked together to
promote, host and safeguard the 2018 North Carolina 4th of July Festival. Board
members presented Certificates of Appreciation to:
Southport Parks & Recreation Department
Southport Tourism Department & Volunteers
Southport Public Works Department
Southport Police Department
Southport Fire Department
Bolivia Fire Department
Brunswick County Sheriff’s Office
Boiling Spring Lakes Police Department
Leland Police Department
Chadbourn Police Department
North Carolina Highway Patrol
N.C. Highway Patrol Radiological Unit
Southport/Oak Island Chamber of Commerce
Southport Baptist Church
D)   Public Comment
   Stating his enjoyment of the 4th of July festival, Mr. Robert Creech, 426
Brunswick Street and a 46 year resident, stated that it was becoming more
difficult for him and his extended family to stay in Southport because costs
are getting out of control for working people. He cited increases in property
tax, fire fees and a likely upcoming increase in water and sewer fees, along
with costs of funding a waste water treatment plant expansion, as burdens on
the tax payers. He stated his disappointment in the Board for recently giving
themselves a raise that he said amounted to an 85% increase.
   Mr. Woody Wilson, 502 Brunswick Street, expressed appreciation to the City
Public Works Department employees that had the daunting task of clean up after
the 4th of July festivities. He emphasized how the town was clean the next
morning and he asked the city manager to share his appreciation with the guys
that did the work.
   Mr. Wilson further chastised the Board for a failure to communicate the
Board’s salary increase. He contended that the action was done at the wrong
time, not well done, and not mentioned in the budget process. He urged the
Board to rescind the salary increase.
E)   Approval of Agenda
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Sharkey to approve the agenda.
   Unanimous vote; motion carried
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Dove stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
F)   Announcements
   Mayor Dove announced that a public information meeting relating to the small
boat harbor would be held Monday, July 16, 6:00 p.m., at the Community
Building.
   Mayor Dove spoke of the passing of Southport natives Jimmy Harper, Lewis
Hardee and Norman Holden.
   Pointing out that the Waterfront Steering Committee had made a
recommendation in September, 2015 on options to address shoreline stabilization
and enhance the waterfront, Alderman Powell announced that funding to complete
the project would be provided by the North Carolina State Port Authority.
   Alderman Mosteller announced that the Beautification Committee would be
taking a well-deserved siesta and the next “This is Own Town” clean up would be
Saturday, September 1, 9:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m.
   Alderman Pukenas urged citizens to attend the boat dock public information
meeting.
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to approve the Consent
Agenda. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Approval of Minutes for May 30 Budget Workshop, June 14 Regular Meeting, June
25 Rates Workshop    and June 27 Budget Meeting – approved
   2.   Final Plat; Southport Crossing - approved
   3.   Interlocal Agreement for Funding of Wastewater Treatment Plant
Expansion Between Brunswick County and the City of Southport – approved
AGENDA  
   4.   Public Hearing; Annexation
   Attorney Isenberg stated that residents of Cades Cove had requested
annexation of a small area of the subdivision which had not been included in
the city limits.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Spencer to open Public Hearing.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   There was no public comment.
   Alderman Pukenas motioned, second by Alderman Sharkey to close Public
Hearing. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Sharkey to approve the
Ordinance to Extend the Corporate Limits of the City of Southport, North
Carolina. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
AN ORDINANCE TO EXTEND THE CORPORATE LIMITS OF THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT, NORTH
CAROLINA
   WHEREAS, the City of Southport has been petitioned under G.S.160A-31 to
annex the area described below; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen has by resolution directed the City Clerk to
investigate the sufficiency of the petition; and
   WHEREAS, the City Clerk has certified the sufficiency of the petition and a
public hearing on the question of this annexation was held at the Southport
Community Building at 6:00 p.m. on July 12, 2018, after due notice by
publication on June 27, 2018; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen finds that the petition meets the
requirements of G.S. 160A-31;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport, North Carolina that:
   Section 1. By virtue of the authority granted by G.S. 160A-31, the following
described territory is hereby annexed and made part of the City of Southport as
of July 12, 2018:
BEGINNING for reference at the southwest corner of Cades Cove Subdivision as
shown on MB 78 PG 98 of the Brunswick County Records.
Thence with the south line of said Cades Cove Subdivision, N79°08’16”E, 144.36’
to the PRINCIPAL PLACE OF BEGINNING FOR THIS SURVEY.
Thence leaving said south line of and into said Cades Cove Subdivision,
N19°28’04”E, 281.37’ to a point;
Thence S70°27’07”E, 479.78’ to a point on the south line of said Cades Cove
Subdivision;
Thence with said south line of Cades Cove Subdivision, S79°08’16”W, 555.86’ to
the PRINCIPAL PLACE OF BEGINNING.
   Section 2. Upon and after July 12, 2018, the above described territory and
its citizens and property shall be subject to all debts, laws, ordinances and
regulations in force in the City of Southport and shall be entitled to the same
privileges and benefits as other parts of the City of Southport. Said territory
shall be subject to municipal taxes according to G.S. 160A-58.10.
   Section 3. The Mayor of the City of Southport shall cause to be recorded in
the office of the Register of Deeds of Brunswick County, and in the office of
the Secretary of State at Raleigh, North Carolina, an accurate map of the
annexed territory, described in Section 1 above, together with a duly certified
copy of this ordinance. Such a map shall also be delivered to the County Board
of Elections, as required by G.S. 163A-1594.
Adopted this the 12th day of July, 2018.         City of Southport
                     /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
   5.   Public Hearing; Unified Development Ordinance Text Amendment; Article
17 Signs, Section 2 and Section 5 (ZA 18-0412-01)
   City Planner Lloyd explained the specifics of a proposed text amendment to
permit billboards in a section of the Highway Commercial (HC) zoning district.
He stated that the Board of Aldermen were required to hold a public hearing and
adopt a statement of consistency and adopt an ordinance accepting the text
amendment, or a resolution denying the request. He reported that the Planning
Board considered the amendment and found it not consistent with the CAMA Core
Land Use Plan, not in the public interest, not a public necessity, and
permitting the billboards would set a precedent for allowing them in other
areas of the city. Planner Lloyd stated that the Planning Board recommended
that the Board of Aldermen not adopt the text amendment.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to open Public Hearing.
   Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Mr. Brian Keesee, agent to the applicant, stated his position that the
request permitting billboards in the HC zoning district would not affect
downtown and would be a good use of the 5 acre property formerly a part of the
Southport Crossing development at NC 211 and Long Beach Road Extension. Mr.
Keesee noted that there are currently two “grandfathered” billboards nearer to
the city’s business center.
   Mr. Gray Vick, a sign contractor, stated that the proposed text amendment
would allow multiple billboards in one area and would set a precedent for more
and more similar requests. He pointed out that the proposed 500’ spacing
between signs was not consistent with the County’s 2,000’ spacing requirement
and the height limit of 40’ would be more suitable to an interstate.
   Mr. Patrick Newton, a sign contractor, agreed with Mr. Vick’s observations.
Mr. Newton suggested that an approved text amendment be consistent with the
County’s regulations for billboards; 2,000’ spacing, 30 sq. ft. maximum size,
25’ maximum height and a 15’ setback.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Sharkey to close Public
Hearing. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Pointing out that the Planning Board had made its findings, Attorney
Isenberg advised the Board that they were not bound by the Planning Board
findings and could find that the proposed text amendment is consistent with the
CAMA Core Land Use Plan and in the public interest.
   Noting that the NC 211 improvements and construction of an overpass are to
start soon in the area, Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Sharkey to
deny the proposed text amendment, and adopt the Resolution and a Statement of
Inconsistency. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
RESOLUTION DENYING APPLICATION FOR AMENDMENT TO ARTICLE 17 OF THE CITY OF
SOUTHPORT UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
THAT WHEREAS, the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance and other
land use ordinances that control land development within both the City’s
incorporated areas and within its extraterritorial area; and
   WHEREAS, in order to promote the public health, safety and general welfare
and to promote the best interest of the city and community, it is necessary for
the City Board of Aldermen from time to time to consider appropriate revisions,
modifications and additions to the city’s land use ordinances; and
   WHEREAS, the applicant, Brian Kessee, has submitted in a proposed amendment
to Sections 3 and 5 in Article 17 of the Southport Unified Development
Ordinance to allow billboards in a certain area of the Highway Commercial
District; and
   WHEREAS, the Planning Board has thoroughly reviewed this matter and found
that the proposed amendment to Article 17 of the Unified Development Ordinance
to be inconsistent with the City of Southport CAMA Core Land Use Plan and does
not recommend its approval; and
   WHEREAS, pursuant to N. C. General Statutes and city ordinances, a public
hearing, properly noticed, was held on July 12, 2018 before the Board of
Aldermen regarding this issue; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen, after considering the public hearing
response and the recommendation of the Planning Board, hereby finds that the
proposed text amendment is not consistent with the 2015 CAMA Land Use Plan for
the reasons stated in its Statement of Plan Consistency attached hereto; and;
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that this amendment is not
reasonable and in the public interest for the reasons stated in the Statement
of Plan Consistency attached hereto;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that the
proposed amendment to Article 17 of the Southport Unified Development Ordinance
is hereby denied.
This, the 12th day of July, 2018.               City of Southport
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2017_1348x1348.jpg]
 
City of Southport Board of Aldermen               Statement of Plan Consistency
                              (as per NC General Statute 160A-383)
Zoning regulations shall be made in accordance with a comprehensive plan. Prior
to adopting or rejecting any zoning amendment, the governing board shall adopt
one of the following statements which shall not be subject to judicial review;
1) A statement approving the zoning amendment and describing its consistency
with an adopted comprehensive plan and explaining why the action taken is
reasonable and in the public interest. 2) A statement rejecting the zoning
amendment and describing its inconsistency with an adopted comprehensive plan
and explaining why the action taken is reasonable and in the public interest.
3) A statement approving the zoning amendment and containing at least all of
the following: A declaration that the approval is also deemed an amendment to
the comprehensive plan. The governing board shall not require any additional
request or application for amendment to the comprehensive plan, an explanation
of the change in conditions the governing board took into account in amending
the zoning ordinance to meet the development needs of the community, why the
action was reasonable and in the public interest.
                        (NCGS 160A-383)
TEXT AMENDMENT:      ZA-18-0412-01
STATEMENT OF CONSISTENCY AND RECCOMENDATION:
The City of Southport Board of Aldermen hereby find that the proposed text
amendment is not consistent with the 2015 CAMA Land Use Plan adopted November
13, 2014 because it goes against Policy 90 in the CAMA Land Use Plan. Policy 90
states that the City will encourage development that will protect its resources
and preserve its atmosphere, and simultaneously promote industrial and retail
growth. The Board of Aldermen feels that the addition of Billboards would not
protect and preserve the atmosphere of Southport. Furthermore, the Board of
Aldermen finds that the proposed text amendment is not reasonable and in the
public interest because allowing Billboards in this area would not be uniform
with other areas in the City zoned Highway Commercial, allowing Billboards is
not a public necessity, and allowing billboards in one area of highway
commercial would start a precedent of allowing them in certain areas. At their
meeting on July 12, 2018, the Board of Aldermen found the proposed amendment to
be INCONSISTENT with the goals, objectives, and policies, of the CAMA Land Use
Plan.
The statement and motion was seconded and passed July 12, 2018.
                              /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk   
   6.   Unified Development Ordinance Update Phase 1
   City Planner Lloyd reported that city staff had been negotiating with the
Cape Fear Council of Governments (COG) for an update of the CAMA Core Land Use
Plan and a review and audit of the Unified Development Ordinance (UDO). He
stated that the Planning Board would be the advisory committee working with the
consultants. Planner Lloyd stated that the fee for Phase I of the project is
not-to-exceed $12,000 and staff would proceed with the COG at the pleasure of
the Board.
   Responding to a query by Alderman Powell, Planner Lloyd estimated the
project would take one (1) to two (2) years to complete and the cost stretched
over two budget cycles.
   Alderman Mosteller motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to approve
contracting with The Cape Fear Council of Governments to complete Phase 1 of
the Land Use Plan & UDO update. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   7.   Appointments to Beautification Committee
   Alderman Mosteller reported that there were four (4) 2-year terms on the
Beautification Committee set to expire. She indicated that those individuals
currently on the committee had requested re-appointment and Mr. David Rhodes
had applied to fill a one year remaining term vacated by Diane LeBosse.
   Alderman Mosteller motioned, second by Alderman Sharkey to re-appoint
Majorie Jones, Kate Singley, Nick Kern, and Bonnie Bray to 2-year terms and
appoint David Rhodes to the remaining one year term of Ms. LeBosse.  Unanimous
vote; motion carried.
   8.   Consideration of Water & Sewer Rates
   City Manager Oakley pointed out that the Board had met previously to discuss
water and sewer rates and he, the Finance Director and Rate Committee had
worked with the University of North Carolina at Wilmington Financial Center to
run scenarios that would work best for Southport. Noting there would be
significant increases, City Manager Oakley stated that the proposal included in
the agenda packet was the best way to pay for the city’s water and sewer.
   Responding to a query by Alderman Powell, City Manager Oakley stated that 20
years was the maximum term for a State revolving fund loan.
   Stating that water and sewer rates were carefully considered and would
continue to be reviewed as new customers came onto the system, Alderman Sharkey
motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to adopt the proposed water and sewer
rates as advertised and presented at the Public Meeting. Unanimous vote; motion
carried.
PROJECT REPORTS
   City Manager Oakley reported that the FY 2016-2017 audit was completed, hard
copies would be placed in Board members City Hall mailboxes, and digital files
would be sent to them July 13th .
   Noting it was his first 4th experience, City Manager Oakley expressed his
amazement at how smooth everything went during the 4th of July Festival. He
pointed out that during the festivities there was a partial blockage in a sewer
line and the Public Works Department worked round the clock to keep it from
disrupting the festival.
STAFF REPORTS
– provided in Agenda packet
BOARD COMMENTS
   Alderman Pukenas thanked the Fire Department for bringing the mobile 9/11
exhibit to Southport during the annual Firemen’s Competition. He stated that it
was a heart moving exhibit manned by New York City firefighters. He shared
comments of those staying at his B&B that “Southport is the best place to be
during the 4th of July.”
   Commenting on the upcoming work to control the erosion on the waterfront and
partnering with the Port Authority on the endeavor, Alderman Sharkey motioned,
second by Alderman Powell to authorize the City Manager to enter into a
contract with an engineering firm so that the Waterfront Shoreline
Stabilization project could move forward. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
ADJOURN
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to adjourn the meeting.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
AUGUST 9, 2018
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING JULY 12, 2018
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Karen Mosteller, Lora Sharkey, Jim Powell,
            Todd Coring, Marc Spencer, Rick Pukenas
STAFF PRESENT:      Bruce Oakley, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
   David Fox, Public Works Director
   Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
   Randy Jones, Tourism Director
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   Angie Bates, Tax Collector
   Teresa Parker-Mosley, HR Technician
A)   Call to Order - 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Dove called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Sharkey welcomed everyone and Mr. Donnie Joyner gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Sharkey led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Public Comment
   Mr. Scott Crook, 118 Park Avenue, distributed a handout to the Board and he
talked about chronic violations of the 25 mph speed limit on Park Avenue. He
stated that enforcement efforts have been ineffective and he asked the Board to
consider installation of three (3) speed humps.
   Stating the noise of temporary pumps at the Burrington Avenue pump station
was very disruptive, Mr. Wendel Watson, 601 Burrington Avenue, asked how long
the pumps would be used. At the request of the Mayor, Public Works Director,
David Fox, responded that the pump station pump was expected to be out for
repairs for two to three weeks.
   Mr. Jason Robbins, 504 W. Brunswick Street, stated his opinion that the City
was not keeping Southport citizens properly informed.
   Ms. Lowe Davis, 504 W. Brunswick Street, shared an experience she recently
had with people transfixed watching dolphins play in the Yacht Basin. She
encouraged the Board to keep in mind how remarkable the Yacht Basin is when
considering development of the boat dock.
   Mr. Brett McKeithan, a business proprietor at Southport Marina, talked about
an increase in water rates. He indicated that his business uses less than 100
gallons a month and that the rate should be set for actual usage instead of the
current 1,000 gallon base rate.
   Mr. Ed Boguskie, 502 W. Brown Street, submitted an e-mail to the City Clerk
and requested it be read. City Clerk Windham gave a brief overview of the
message. (Message included in its entirety):
   "Southport is faced with 2 situations, the Old Boat Harbor and the Southport
Police Department. Tonight I would like to address the Police Department.
   We are now using the County Sheriff's Department to fill in until after an
audit of the department is made. That is good for the citizens of Southport,
but a decision has to be made in order not to carry this out over too many
months and have current city officers on paid leave during this time. As to how
long the city will use the county is up to the B of A. A new police chief is up
to the City Manager. I would strongly suggest that both officers, now on
suspension without pay, be terminated. The credibility of the two officers is
now tarnished beyond repair both at the police level, the Southport citizens
and I am sure that of the B of A & Mayor. After termination the City Manager,
with the help of the League of Municipalities, can request applications for a
new Police Chief for Southport.
   Since this is the City Managers responsibility he can draw up the needed BIO
for this job. The sooner this can be done the quicker the city can settle into
moving forward. After a new chief is found and on boat, he or she can then look
through the BIO of the city police and choice or her own Lieutenant, with the
City Manager's approval.
   This will be a tough decision, but it has to be done. I guess the B of A
could make a decision to disband the Southport Police Department and work out
the details for the County to take over the responsibilities of policing the
city. Whatever direction is taken, please take the time to look at all of the
possibilities and foremost what is best for the future of Southport. Thank
you."
E)   Approval of Agenda
   Mayor Dove asked for an addition to the Consent Agenda: Item #6, Equipment
Transfer from the Town of Shallotte to the City of Southport, one (1) 1987 Ford
C8000 FMC 50' TeleSquirt ladder truck.
   Mayor Dove asked for addition of two (2) items to the Agenda: Item #14,
Amendment to Contract to Audit Accounts with Berry, Padgett & Chandler, PLLC
and Item #15, Contract to Audit Accounts with Berry, Padgett & Chandler, PLLC
for the period beginning July 1, 2018 and ending June 30, 2019.
   Alderman Mosteller asked for Consent Agenda Item # 3, Resolution in Support
of International Day of Peace, to be moved to Item G, Special Recognition.
   Alderman Pukenas motioned, second by Alderman Sharkey to approve the agenda
as amended.
Unanimous vote; motion carried
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Dove stated, "If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time."
F)   Announcements
   Mayor Dove thanked the Public Works Department for pumping flooded streets
during the recent heavy rains.
   Mayor Dove asked Mr. Donnie Joyner to announce an upcoming event. Mr. Joyner
explained that the Gullah Geechee culture came from Africa and settled in the
corridor from Florida to southeastern North Carolina. He announced that the
Gullah Geechee Cultural Heritage Corridor Commission would be holding a
commissioner meeting in Southport on Saturday, August 18 at the AME Zion
Church.
   Alderman Mosteller announced that the next "This is Our Town" clean up would
be Saturday, September 1, 9:00 a.m. - 12:00 p.m.
   Alderman Powell asked the City Manager to have the Public Works Director
check into getting a silent running pump for the Burrington Avenue pump
station.
   Alderman Spencer announced that the Leland AAA Dixie Youth Baseball team was
playing in the Little League World Series.
   Alderman Spencer acknowledged those members of the Southport Police
Department in attendance and stated that the Board fully supported them and
would get them back to work as soon as possible. Alderman Spencer stated
appreciation to the Sheriff's Office for providing law enforcement coverage in
Southport.
   Alderman Pukenas echoed Mayor Dove's appreciation to the Public Works and
Fire Departments for tackling the unusual flooding experienced in Southport
during heavier than normal rains.
   Noting that the WECT Highway 6 program had recently reported from Southport,
Alderman Pukenas stated it was good exposure for the city and thanked Tourism
Director Randy Jones for facilitating the episode.
   Alderman Pukenas commented on the professionalism of the Brunswick County
Sheriff's Office and how the officers greet Southport citizens and visitors.
G)   Special Recognition
   Mayor Dove read the Resolution in Support of International Day of Peace and
presented it to Marjorie Jones.
 
SOUTHPORT
RESOLUTION IN SUPPORT OF INTERNATIONAL DAY OF PEACE

WHEREAS, The United Nations in 1981 established a yearly International Day of
Peace, a day devoted to strengthening the ideals of peace both within and among
all nations and people; and
WHEREAS, The International Day of Peace is now observed around the world each
year on September 20 to put aside all that separates us and to experience
peace; and
WHEREAS, in 1984, the General Assembly adopted the Declaration on the Right of
Peoples to Peace; and
WHEREAS, the theme of the 2018 International Day of Peace is "The Right to
Peace"; and
WHEREAS, Southport residents are coordinating a celebration of the
International Day of Peace on a local level; and
WHEREAS, the Celebration of Peace will be held and will include songs, dances,
art, informational booths and exhibits, a Peace Circle discussion, children
crafts, and a Peace Pilgrim film; and
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Mayor and Southport Board of Aldermen
on this the 9th day of August 2018, hereby proclaim Saturday, September 15,
2018 as "Peace Day" in the City of Southport and urge all citizens to join in
the festivities of this day and promote peace among all peoples.
                         /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to approve the Consent
Agenda as amended. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   1.   Approval of Minutes for July 12, Regular Meeting, July 16 Boat Dock
Public Information Session - approved
   2.   Closing 100 Block of S. Lord Street, September 15th, 8:00 a.m. to 6:00
p.m. for Plein Air Event - approved
   3.   Resolution in Support of International Day of Peace - item moved to
Item G, Special Recognition - approved
   4.   Annual Tax Report - approved
   5.   Tax Releases - approved
   6.   Equipment Transfer from the Town of Shallotte to the City of Southport,
1 1987 Ford C8000 FMC 50' TeleSquirt ladder truck - approved
City of Southport
Annual Settlement of Tax Collector
FY Ending: June 30, 2018
Tax Year 2017 (Brunswick County Assessed)
Beginning Levy                  2,208,949.81
Public Utilities                   110,237.55
2017 Discovery Run-July            2016    1,053.87
2017 Discovery Run-August            2017    10.34
2017 Discovery Run-September         2017    27.90
2017 Discovery Run-November         2017    9,922.56
2017 Discovery Run-December         2017    203.98
2017 Prepaid Discoveries            2017    1,677.00
2017 Penalty Bus & Reg Scroll         2017    1,728.23
Total Discoveries                   14,623.88
Total Levy:                     2,333,811.24
Collected Fiscal Year                (2,304,202.52)
Write Off                      (56.59)
Releases                      (777.11)
Unpaid Levy: June 30, 2018                     27,324.98
Tax Year 2016
Beginning Balance: 7/01/2017             35,909.82
Collected Fiscal Year                        20,883.16
Releases                      0.98
Unpaid Levy: June 30, 2018                     15,025.68
Tax Year 2015
Beginning Balance: 07/02/2017             19,736.09
Collected Fiscal Year                   8,051.38
Releases                      369.13
Unpaid Levy: June 30, 2018                11,315.58
Tax Year 2014
Beginning Balance: 7/01/2017             17,960.62
Collected Fiscal Year                 7,887.82
Releases                      107.03
Unpaid Levy: June 30, 2018                9,965.77
Tax Year 2013
Beginning Balance: 7/01/2017             17,820.00
Collected Fiscal Year                   8,665.07
Releases                       107.03
Unpaid Levy: June 20, 2018                9,047.90
Tax Year 2012
Beginning Balance: 7/01/2017             14,914.69
Collected Fiscal Year                   7,193.99
Releases                      107.03
Unpaid Levy: June 30, 2018                7,613.67
Tax Year 2011
Beginning Balance: 7/01/2017             13,407.35
Collected Fiscal Year                   7,959.38
Unpaid Levy: June 30, 2018                5,447.97
Tax Year 2010
Beginning Balance: 7/01/2017             25,013.57
Collected Fiscal Year                   5,930.82
Unpaid Levy: June 30, 2018                19,082.75
Tax Year 2009
Beginning Balance: 7/01/2017             9,903.68
Collected Fiscal Year                   1,469.96
Unpaid Levy: June 30, 2018                8,433.72
Tax Year 2008
Beginning Balance: 7/01/2017             4,804.97
Collected Fiscal Year                    644.25
Unpaid Levy: June 30, 2018                4,160.72
Tax Year 2007
Beginning Balance: 7/01/2017             2,508.12
Collected Fiscal Year                   -
Unpaid Levy: June 30, 2018                2,508.12
Tax Year 2006
Beginning Balance: 7/01/2017             950.20
Collected Fiscal Year                   18.16
Unpaid Levy: June 30, 2018                932.04
Total Unpaid Levy: June 30, 2018             93,533.92
Motor Vehicle Tax Year 2017
Beginning Balance: 7/01/2017
Collected Fiscal Year
Unpaid Levy: June 30, 2018
Motor Vehicle Tax Year 2016
Beginning Balance: 7/01/2017                0.53
Collected Fiscal Year                      -
Unpaid Levy: June 30, 2018                   0.53
Motor Vehicle Tax Year 2015                  
Beginning Balance: 7/01/2017             255.05
Collected Fiscal Year                      -
Unpaid Levy: June 30, 2018                255.05
Motor Vehicle Tax Year 2014
Beginning Balance: 7/01/2017               51.44
Collected Fiscal Year                      -
Unpaid Levy: June 30, 2018                  51.44
Motor Vehicle Tax Year 2013
Beginning Balance: 7/01/2017             788.41
Collected Fiscal Year                     21.64
Unpaid Levy: June 30, 2018                766.77
Motor Vehicle Tax Year 2012
Beginning Balance: 7/01/2017             1,025.60
Collected Fiscal Year                   80.09
Unpaid Levy: June 30, 2018                945.51
Motor Vehicle Tax Year 2011               
Beginning Balance: 7/01/2017             1,107.76
Collected Fiscal Year                   124.39
Unpaid Levy: June 30, 2018                983.37
Motor Vehicle Tax Year 2010
Beginning Balance: 7/01/2017             650.61
Collected Fiscal Year                   27.12
Unpaid Levy: June 30, 2018                623.49
Motor Vehicle Tax Year 2009
Beginning Balance: 7/01/2017             838.62
Collected Fiscal Year                     59.22
Unpaid Levy: June 30, 2018                779.40
Motor Vehicle Tax Year 2008
Beginning Balance: 7/01/2017             447.97
Collected Fiscal Year                     15.15
Unpaid Levy: June 30, 2018              432.82
Motor Vehicle Tax Year 2007
Beginning Balance: 7/01/2017             862.19
Collected Fiscal Year                   18.78
Unpaid Levy: June 30, 2018                843.41
Motor Vehicle Tax Year 2006
Beginning Balance: 7/01/2017             1,196.80
Collected Fiscal Year                      -
Unpaid Levy: June 30, 2018                1,196.80
Total Unpaid Levy: June 30, 2018             6,878.59
Grand Total Unpaid Levy: June 30, 2018          127,737.49
ANNUAL TAX RELEASES
Release Date 11.29.17
Tax Payer Name:      Kenneth McFarlen Elliott
Account Number:      043694
Parcel ID:
Amount Released:      5.38
Value Released      18,190.00
Reason Released      Did not list late
Tax Payer Name:      Carolina Properties Inc.
Account Number:      023779
Parcel ID:         221MC040
Amount Released:      .88
Value Released:      450.00
Reason Released:      Mapping Correction
Release Date 01.31.18
Tax Payer Name:      David Nielsen
Account Number:      301069
Parcel ID:
Amount Released:      146.32
Value Released:      45,000
Reason Released:      Approved Appeal from Boer 2017
Release Date 05.09.18
Tax Payer Name:      Ashley Adler Price
Account Number:      301034
Parcel ID:   
Amount Released:      237.34
Value Released:      72,989.00
Reason Released:      Duplicate Listing
Release Date 09.5.17
Tax Payer Name:      William Edwin Pitzer
Account Number:      110968
Parcel ID:
Amount Released:      39.62
Value Released:      12,187.00
Reason Released:      Adj. Per Purchase Price
Release Date 09.6.17
Tax Payer Name:      Matthew Benna
Account Number:      010355
Parcel ID:      
Amount Released:      290.79
Value Released:      98,373.00
Reason Released:      Not within City Limits
Tax Payer Name:      Lon Elbert Maggart
Account Number:      0088469
Parcel ID:
Amount Released:      49.54
Value Released:      16,758.00
Reason Released:      Did not own Jan. 1
Tax Payer Name:      Stephen C. Foote
Account Number:      048330
Parcel ID:
Amount Released:      6.31
Value Released:      2,133.00
Reason Released:      Value included the trailer
Release Date 09.25.17
Tax Payer Name:      Paula S. Kesler
Account Number:      76800
Parcel ID:         237LE01301
Amount Released:      .30
Value Released:      100.00
Reason Released:      Clerical Error/DE Error
EQUIPMENT TRANSFER
This Equipment Transfer ("Transfer") has occurred between the Town of Shallotte
("Shallotte"), a North Carolina municipality, located at 106 Cheers Street,
Post Office Box 2287, Shallotte, North Carolina 28459, and the City of
Southport ("Southport"), a North Carolina municipality located at 1029 N. Howe
Street, Southport, North Carolina 28461,who may hereinafter be referred to
individually as "Party" and jointly as "Parties."
WHEREAS, "Shallotte" and "Southport" have forged a partnership to protect and
serve the public safety interests within Brunswick County;
WHEREAS, "Southport" has expressed an interest in acquiring a 1987 Ford C-8000
FMC 50' TeleSquirt ladder truck holding the vehicle identification number of
VIN IFDYD8OU6HVA64644,("Equipment") which was previously used by the Town of
Shallotte Fire/Rescue Department, to be used by the City of Southport Fire
Department in support of its current aerial apparatus fleet;
WHEREAS, the Town of Shallotte Board of Aldermen authorized the "Transfer" of
the aforementioned asset on August 7, 2018, as a gesture of good faith in
wanting and willingness to continue to support protecting and serving the
public safety interests within the Brunswick County and Southport's
jurisdiction;
WHEREAS, the Town of Shallotte, under G.S. 160A-280, may donate to another
governmental unit within the US, a sister city, or nonprofit organization
incorporated by the United States, the District of Columbia, or one of the
United States, any personal property, including supplies, materials, and
equipment, that the governing board deems to be surplus, obsolete, or unused;
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements
contained in this "Transfer", and for good and valuable consideration, the
receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the "Parties" agree
to the "Transfer" as follows:
1. "Shallotte" hereby transfers to "Southport" all rights, title and interest
in the Equipment, and "Southport" accepts all rights, title and interest in the
Equipment.
2. "Shallotte" warrants that title to the Equipment as transferred to
"Southport" shall be free and clear of any liens or encumbrances.
3. "Southport" hereby assumes all risk of loss of the Equipment and accepts the
Equipment AS IS, WHERE-IS, AND WITH ALL FAULTS, known or unknown.
4. "Shallotte" DISCLAIMS AND MAKES NO WARRANTY, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, WITH REGARD
TO THE EQUIPMENT, INCLUDING WARRANTIES OF OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
5. "Southport" shall hereby defend, indemnify and hold harmless "Shallotte",
its affiliates, and each of their officers, agents, employees, assigns and
successors in interest from and against any and all liability, damages, losses,
claims, demands, actions, causes of action, costs (including attorney's fees
and expenses), or any of them, arising out of Southport's ownership or use of
the Equipment.
6. This "Transfer" contains the entire agreement and understanding between the
Parties regarding the Equipment and merges and supersedes all prior
representations and discussions pertaining to the subject matter herein.
7. This "Transfer" shall be interpreted, governed and construed under the laws
of the State of North Carolina.
9. The person signing this Agreement represents that he or she is duly
authorized to execute this "Transfer" on behalf of the Party for whom he or she
signs, and to fully bind such Party to this "Transfer".
                      TOWN OF SHALLOTTE
                  By:   /s/ Walt Eccard, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Sandy Strickland, Town Clerk
                      CITY OF SOUTHPORT
                  By:    /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
AGENDA
7.   Public Hearing; Zoning Map Amendment Residential (R-10) to Multi-Family
(MF) for Parcel ID's: 221MA006, 221MA00802, 221MA00804, 221MA00805, 221MA00803,
221MA00801 (RZ 18-0613-01)
   Building Inspector Strickland explained that developer RHH Land Investors
has requested a zoning map amendment for six parcels in the vicinity of 11th
Street for a proposed 38 unit multi-family townhome complex. Mr. Strickland
indicated that the parcels are currently zoned R-10 (residential) and are
surrounded by multi-family zoning. He stated that the Planning Board had
reviewed the request, found the properties highly suitable for development; the
zoning map amendment was consistent with the CAMA Core Land Use Plan and
recommend that the Board of Aldermen approves it.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Coring to Open Public Hearing.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Ms. Lena Tobler, 215 W. 11th Street, asked about the location on 11th
Street. Mr. Strickland explained where the area was located.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to Close Public
Hearing. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
8.   Consideration of Zoning Map Amendment
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to approve the zoning
map amendment. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
STATEMENT OF CONSISTENCY AND RECCOMENDATION:
The City of Southport Board of Aldermen hereby finds that the proposed zoning
map amendment is consistent with the 2015 CAMA Land Use Plan adopted November
13, 2014. The Board of Aldermen feels that the proposed amendment is consistent
with the 2015 CAMA Land Use Plan because it is shown as highly suitable for
development on the Land Suitability Analysis map and it is surrounded by
properties currently zoned multifamily. Further, the Board of Aldermen believes
it is reasonable and in the public interest because additional land zoned
multifamily is needed in the City. At their meeting on August 9, 2018, the
Board of Aldermen stated that the proposed amendment is CONSISTENT with the
goals, objectives, and policies, of the Land Use Plan.
AN ORDINANCE APPROVING A ZONING MAP AMENDMENT REZONING PARCELS
221MA006, 221MA00801, 221MA00802, 221MA00803, 221MA00804, AND 221MA00805
FROM R-10 TO MF
   THAT WHEREAS, the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance and other
land use ordinances, and a zoning map that control land development within both
the City's incorporated areas and within its extraterritorial area; and
   WHEREAS, in order to promote the public health, safety and general welfare
and to promote the best interest of the city and community, it is necessary for
the City Board of Aldermen from time to time to consider appropriate revisions,
modifications and additions to the city's zoning map; and
   WHEREAS, the applicant, RHH Land Investors, has prepared and submitted an
application for a zoning map amendment to rezone the above mentioned parcels;
and
   WHEREAS, the Planning Board has thoroughly reviewed this matter and found
that the proposed zoning map to be consistent with the City of Southport CAMA
Core Land Use Plan and recommends its approval; and
   WHEREAS, pursuant to N. C. General Statutes and city ordinances, a public
hearing, properly noticed, was held on August 9, 2018 before the Board of
Aldermen regarding this issue; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen, after considering the public hearing
response and the recommendation of the Planning Board, hereby finds that the
proposed text amendment is consistent with the 2015 CAMA Land Use Plan for the
reasons stated in its consistency statement attached hereto and incorporated
herein; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that this amendment is
reasonable and in the public interest because additional land zoned multifamily
is needed in the City;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that the
Official Zoning Map of the City of Southport, an element of the Unified
Development Ordinance of the City, is amended by changing the zoning
classification of the below described property from R-10 to MF:
Tax Parcel ID's of properties to be rezoned:
221MA006, 221MA00801, 221MA00802, 221MA00803, 221MA00804, and 221MA00805
This ordinance shall be effective upon its adoption, and the Official Zoning
Map of the City of Southport shall be revised accordingly.
This, the 9th day of August, 2018.            
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk    
9.   Public Hearing; Unified Development Ordinance (UDO) Text Amendment;
Article 17 Signs, Section 17-4 (B) On Premise Signs (ZA 18-0608-01)
   Building Inspector Strickland explained the specifics of a proposed text
amendment to permit multiple tenant developments in highway commercial zoning
district to erect one freestanding sign per street frontage on lots larger than
five acres. He reported that the Planning Board considered the amendment and
found it consistent with the CAMA Core Land Use Plan, in the public interest,
promotes economic development and allows larger multi-tenant developments to
have adequate signage. Mr. Strickland stated that the Planning Board
recommended that the Board of Aldermen adopt the text amendment.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to open Public
Hearing.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   There were no public comments.    
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Sharkey to close Public
Hearing. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
10.   Consideration of UDO Text Amendment
   Alderman Pukenas motioned, second by Alderman Sharkey to approve the UDO
Text Amendment. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
STATEMENT OF CONSISTENCY AND RECCOMENDATION:
The City of Southport Board of Aldermen hereby finds that the proposed text
amendment is consistent with the 2015 CAMA Land Use Plan. The Board of Aldermen
feels that the allowance of one sign per street frontage in multiple tenant
developments larger than 5 acres in areas zoned highway commercial is
consistent with CAMA Land Use Plan because it adheres with Policy 90. Further
the Board of Aldermen finds that the proposed text amendment is reasonable and
in the public interest because it will promote economic development in the city
and it will allow larger multi-tenant developments to have adequate signage. At
their meeting on August 9th, 2018, the Board of Aldermen stated that the
proposed amendment is CONSISTENT with the goals, objectives, and policies, of
the Land Use Plan
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING ARTICLE 17 OF THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
   THAT WHEREAS, the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance and other
land use ordinances that control land development within both the City's
incorporated areas and within its extraterritorial area; and
   WHEREAS, in order to promote the public health, safety and general welfare
and to promote the best interest of the city and community, it is necessary for
the City Board of Aldermen from time to time to consider appropriate revisions,
modifications and additions to the city's land use ordinances; and
   WHEREAS, city staff has prepared the proposed amendment to amend Article 17:
Regulations for Signs and Section 17-4: On Premise Signs; and
   WHEREAS, the Planning Board has thoroughly reviewed this matter and found
that the proposed amendment to Article 17 of the Unified Development Ordinance
to be consistent with the City of Southport CAMA Core Land Use Plan and
recommends its approval; and
   WHEREAS, pursuant to N. C. General Statutes and city ordinances, a public
hearing, properly noticed, was held on August 9, 2018 before the Board of
Aldermen regarding this issue; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen, after considering the public hearing
response and the recommendation of the Planning Board, hereby finds that the
proposed text amendment is consistent with the 2015 CAMA Land Use Plan for the
reasons stated in its consistency statement attached hereto and incorporated
herein; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that this amendment is
reasonable and in the public interest because it will promote economic
development in the city and it will allow larger multi-tenant developments to
have adequate signage;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that the
attached amendment to the Southport Unified Development Ordinance is hereby
amended as follows on Exhibit A attached.
This, the 9th day of August, 2018.            City of Southport
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk    
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING ARTICLE 17 OF THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
Additions are highlighted
Deletions in strikethrough
AMEND BY ADDITION:
ARTICLE 17: REGULATIONS FOR SIGNS
Section 17-4: On-Premise Signs
(B)   On-Premise Signs
   (4)   All commercial zoning districts. (CBD,BD,HC,O/I,LI,HI) Signs allowed
within these zoning districts include:
   Attached Single Face Wall
   Projecting Double Face
   Freestanding Ground
   A-Frame
   Roof
   Multiple Tenant Development
      c.   Freestanding Ground Sign. One freestanding ground sign shall be
allowed per street front. See the attached table for height and area
requirements based on zoning district in which it is located.
 
Zoning District Maximum Height Allowed Maximum Square Footage Per Face
CBD             6 ft.                  25 sq. ft.
HC              25 ft.                 125 150 sq. ft.
BD/OI           10 ft.                 60 sq. ft.
                25 ft.                 187.5 sq. ft.
 
   (6)   On-Premise Signs: Multiple Tenant Development. Multiple tenant
developments may erect one freestanding development identification sign. For
multiple tenant developments zoned highway commercial larger than 5 acres,
developments may construct one sign per street frontage. In addition, tenant
identification signs for individual businesses within a development are
allowed. Regulations for these signs shall be applicable within the commercial
zoning districts indicated for multiple tenant development.
11.   Public Hearing; Unified Development Ordinance Text Amendment, Article 15
Residential Cluster Development (ZA 18-0613-01)
   Building Inspector Strickland explained that RHH Land Investors have
requested a zoning text amendment to allow a 50 foot right-of-way in
residential cluster developments in order to further preserve the natural
character of the site. Mr. Strickland stated that the 50 feet is an adequate
amount of space to install all utilities and infrastructure. Mr. Strickland
reported that the Planning Board had thoroughly considered the proposed text
amendment and found it reasonable because NCDOT's minimum right-of-way for
local roads in their design criteria is 40 feet and the amendment is consistent
with the CAMA Core Land Use Plan. Mr. Strickland stated that the Planning Board
and staff recommend that the Board of Aldermen adopt the text amendment.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to Open Public Hearing.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   There were no public comments.
   Alderman Powell motioned second by Alderman Coring to close Public Hearing.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
12.   Consideration of UDO Text Amendment
   Alderman Pukenas motioned, second by Alderman Spencer to approve the UDO
Text Amendment. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
STATEMENT OF CONSISTENCY AND RECCOMENDATION:
The City of Board of Aldermen hereby finds that the proposed text amendment is
consistent with the 2015 CAMA Land Use Plan. The Board of Aldermen feels that
the allowance of a 50 foot ROW is Consistent with the CAMA Land Use Plan
because it adheres with Policies 25, 45, and 90. Further the Board of Aldermen
finds that the proposed text amendment is reasonable and in the public interest
because it will allow developers to better preserve the natural character of
cluster development sites while having adequate room for the installation of
infrastructure. At their meeting on August 9th, 2018, the Board of Aldermen
stated that the proposed amendment is CONSISTENT with the goals, objectives,
and policies, of the Land Use Plan.
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING ARTICLE 15 OF THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
   THAT WHEREAS, the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance and other
land use ordinances that control land development within both the City's
incorporated areas and within its extraterritorial area; and
   WHEREAS, in order to promote the public health, safety and general welfare
and to promote the best interest of the city and community, it is necessary for
the City Board of Aldermen from time to time to consider appropriate revisions,
modifications and additions to the city's land use ordinances; and
   WHEREAS, the applicant, RHH Lane Investors, has prepared the proposed
amendment to amend Article 15-6 Private Streets of Article 15 in the Unified
Development Ordinance; and
   WHEREAS, the Planning Board has thoroughly reviewed this matter and found
that the proposed amendment to Article 15 of the Unified Development Ordinance
to be consistent with the City of Southport CAMA Core Land Use Plan and
recommends its approval; and
   WHEREAS, pursuant to N. C. General Statutes and city ordinances, a public
hearing, properly noticed, was held on August 9, 2018 before the Board of
Aldermen regarding this issue; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen, after considering the public hearing
response and the recommendation of the Planning Board, hereby finds that the
proposed text amendment is consistent with the 2015 CAMA Land Use Plan for the
reasons stated in its consistency statement attached hereto and incorporated
herein; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that this amendment is
reasonable and in the public interest because the proposed text amendment will
allow developers in residential cluster developments to better preserve the
natural characteristics of cluster development sites while continuing to have
adequate room for the installation of infrastructure;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that the
attached amendment to the Southport Unified Development Ordinance is hereby
amended as follows on Exhibit A attached.
This, the 9th day of August, 2018.            City of Southport
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING ARTICLE 15 OF THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
Additions are highlighted
AMEND BY ADDITION:
ARTICLE 15: RESIDENTIAL CLUSTER SUBDIVISION
Section 15-6: Private and Public Streets
Public and private streets may be allowed pursuant to the subdivision
regulations. In residential cluster developments, a 50 foot wide road right of
way may be allowed in order to preserve the natural character of the site.
13.   Discussion; Right of Way Parking
   Alderman Coring opened discussion about parking and clear violations of
right-of-way usage along with no enforcement. He asked for Board members'
feedback and suggestions for educating citizens to the lawful use of right-of-
ways.
   Alderman Mosteller pointed out that the Ordinance language was straight
forward. She stated her optimism that a soon to be hired Code Enforcement
Officer would be able to enforce the rules.
   Alderman Powell asked for a map of all city streets and their right-of-way
widths to be made available in City Hall.
   Alderman Spencer asked for staff to look at promoting the city parking area
in the 400-500 block of Atlantic Avenue.
   Alderman Sharkey stated she had been contacted by business owners concerned
about a lack of off street parking and she questioned how the City could make
people aware of the Atlantic Avenue parking.
14.   Amendment to Contract to Audit Accounts
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to approve the
amendment to the auditing contract with Berry, Padgett & Chandler, PLLC for FY
2016-2017.
Unanimous vote; motion carried. (Amended contract on file in the Clerk's
office)
15.   Contract with Berry, Padgett & Chandler, PLLC to Audit Accounts for FY
2017-2018
   City Manager Oakley explained that State law requires municipalities to
perform an annual audit. A contract with the firm that has performed past
audits was provided for Board consideration.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to approve the contract
with Berry, Padgett & Chandler, PLLC to audit accounts for FY 2017-2018.
Unanimous vote; motion carried. (Contract on file in the Clerk's office)
COMMITTEE REPORTS
   Alderman Mosteller announced that the Unified Development Ordinance (UDO)
update project would begin Thursday, September 6, 6:00 p.m., at the Fire
Department Substation, 111 E. Nash Street. She stated that subsequent workshops
would be held the first Thursday of each month.
PROJECT REPORTS
   City Manager Oakley reported that the Public Works Department had been
working around the clock during the recent heavy rain events.   
STAFF REPORTS
- provided in Agenda packet
BOARD COMMENTS
   Alderman Mosteller suggested holding a meeting to update the public on the
status of the Police Department. City Manager Oakley stated his hesitation for
holding a meeting as the situation deals with personnel issues. City Attorney
Isenberg pointed out that the District Attorney advised it would be up to a
month before he has anything else to report.
   Alderman Mosteller stated she had spoken with representatives of CAMA and
the Army Corps of Engineers about the city boat dock. She talked about
postponing submittal of the CAMA permit application until an additional Board
meeting is held.
   Alderman Powell and City Manager Oakley pointed out that any delays could
hinder the dredging by NCDOT.
   Alderman Pukenas motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to table the CAMA
permit submittal until August 30.
   Discussion
   City Manager Oakley raised concerns about the timeframe of the Letter of
Intent (LOI) with Southport Marina.
   City Attorney Isenberg pointed out that the City had promised to act in good
faith with the Marina in working out a formal contract within 60 days of the
LOI. He noted that the Marina may accept a short extension but CAMA may not. He
recommended proceeding with the application since it later could be withdrawn.
   Alderman Spencer stated he did not want to slow down the dredging process
and he agreed to schedule a meeting.
   Emphasizing he wants to hear from the principal permitting agencies,
Alderman Pukenas withdrew his motion.
   Alderman Coring motioned, second by Alderman Spencer to hold a meeting
Wednesday, September 29, 5:30 p.m. at the Community Building. Unanimous vote;
motion carried.
   Alderman Powell thanked all employees for their back breaking efforts during
the recent storms. He pointed out that the Unified Development Ordinance (UDO)
update is about to begin and it would be a time to look at storm water problems
and flooding.
   Alderman Sharkey motioned, second by Alderman Coring to approve installation
of a crosswalk on Fodale Avenue for Dosher Hospital. Unanimous vote; motion
carried.
   Noting there are emotional and financial sides to the boat dock, Alderman
Spencer stated he would save his remarks until the 29th meeting.
   Alderman Pukenas stressed the importance of listening to all the options and
hearing from the principals of the agencies involved.
   Alderman Pukenas recognized the newest Dosher Memorial Hospital Board
member, Linda Pukenas.
   Brunswick Sheriff's Office Chief Deputy Charlie Miller reported that he had
been providing the City Manager with weekly reports.
ADJOURN
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to adjourn the meeting.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
                              
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
AUGUST 29, 2018
SPECIAL SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN     SPECIAL SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING  AUGUST 29, 2018
223 E. BAY STREET     SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Karen Mosteller, Jim Powell, Todd Coring,
            Marc Spencer, Rick Pukenas
ABSENT:         Alderman Lora Sharkey
STAFF PRESENT:      Bruce Oakley, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   David Fox, Public Works Director
   Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
   Randy Jones, Tourism Director
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   Thomas Lloyd, Planner
A)   Call to Order - 5:30 p.m.
Mayor Dove called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Coring welcomed everyone and gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Coring led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
……………………………….
   Mayor Dove stated that over the past six (6) months, the Board of Aldermen
had been considering and discussing the course of action to take with the City
Boat Dock. He noted that special meetings had been held to provide information
to the public and to receive comments, concerns and suggestions. He declared
that the purpose of the meeting was for the Board to gather information from
CAMA and the Army Corps of Engineers in order to make a wise and informed
decision.
   Mayor Dove introduced Ms. Debbie Wilson, District Manager for the N.C.
Division of Coastal Management (CAMA) and Mr. Todd Horton, Chief of Geospatial
Services for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. Mayor Dove recognized Thad
Moore, vice-president of finance for Preston Development Company and Hank
Whitley, Manager of Southport Marina.
   City Manager Oakley gave a brief update on the status of the Police
Department audit:
   ∙   The audit has been ongoing for the past two weeks
   ∙   Policies and procedures are being audited
   ∙   Findings will result in a stronger, better department
   City Manager Oakley expressed appreciation to the Sheriff's Office for
providing law enforcement coverage.
   City Manager Oakley pointed out that during the Board's annual retreat, the
#1 priority was to get the City Dock back into a safe, accessible, and
functional condition with the Mayor and Aldermen Powell and Sharkey appointed
to a committee to oversee the project. City Manager Oakley stated that the
Committee was included in meetings with NCDOT, CAMA, The Corps and Land
Management. He pointed out that a partnership with Southport Marina was the
best option after discussions of limitations with permitting organizations. At
an April special meeting, the Board directed the City Manager to proceed with a
Letter of Intent (LOI) with Southport Marina and at the April regular meeting,
the Board approved the LOI. He displayed a slide showing the area of limitation
for building in the city owned portion of the Yacht Basin.
   Referencing meeting highlights prepared by Steve Morrison of Land
Management, from a March 1, 2018 interagency scoping meeting, Alderman
Mosteller asked about the Corps denying the rebuilding of the "L" portion of
the city dock. Ms. Wilson explained the Corps navigational channel, required
setbacks and riparian rights.
   Alderman Mosteller asked if the City rebuilt the dock in the same footprint
and stopped at the navigational line, would the dock comply with the CAMA non-
conforming structure rules. Ms. Wilson stated that CAMA would consider
permitting the rebuilding of the dock if it was put back exactly as it is now,
or shortened. She pointed out that anything outside the footprint would be
denied and then a variance with the Coastal Resource Commission (CRC) would
have to be pursued. She added that the same procedure would apply if the City
partnered with the Marina.
   Alderman Mosteller asked if it would be required for the dock to be stick
built. Ms. Wilson stated a stick built or floating dock would be acceptable
based on the non-conforming structure regulations.
   Alderman Mosteller asked Mr. Horton if the Corps would permit rebuilding to
the navigational line and into the setback. Mr. Horton responded that it would
be a tight fit and he pointed out that the setback is 15 feet.
   Mayor Dove asked if there would be impediments with other property owners'
riparian rights. Noting the structure would be "grandfathered", Ms. Wilson
stated a riparian rights objection could affect the permitting decision.
   Referencing a handout listing six (6) options, Alderman Mosteller cited:
   Option 1    Replace City Dock with new fixed dock, in the same footprint as
the existing dock, stopping short at the Federal Navigational Channel Line;
Would allow for approximately 200 feet of dock, approximately 11 to 15 20' boat
slips. She estimated that a rental fee of $200/mo./slip would pay for the
maintenance of the dock. Mr. Horton emphasized that nothing can go into the
channel.
   Alderman Mosteller stated her understanding that $124,000 in reimbursable
funds available from Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) could be used
for a stick built or floating dock. She commented that the leasing of slips
could be executed as a lottery to make it fair and equitable.
   Alderman Pukenas asked for clarification that the dock could be rebuilt as a
fixed or floating structure and he asked if permission was required from
adjacent property owners with riparian rights. Ms. Wilson responded that the
City should be able to do either type structure and would be required to notify
persons with riparian rights.
   Alderman Pukenas asked if CAMA or the Corps had any concerns about dredging
the Yacht Basin. Mr. Horton stated that he foresaw no issues as long as the
structure is removed in order to do the dredging.
   Alderman Spencer asked about removal of the existing pilings. Ms. Wilson
stated that the City would have to go through the permitting process.
   City Manager Oakley stated his understanding from the scoping meetings, that
the structure was deemed 50% damaged and the new structure rules would apply
for replacement. Ms. Wilson responded that the non-conforming regulations
provided some allowances.
   Option 2   Same as Option 1 utilizing floating dock. Replace existing City
Dock with new floating dock, in the same footprint as the existing dock,
stopping short at the Federal Navigational Channel line.
   Alderman Coring asked Ms. Wilson to expand on "riparian rights." Ms. Wilson
explained that riparian rights refer to allocation of water space among those
who possess land along its path. Additionally, she stated that there is a 15
ft. setback requirement and a waiver from each riparian rights holder would be
needed to encroach into those setbacks.
   Alderman Powell asked for clarification that the dock is "grandfathered" and
the main line of the structure could be rebuilt. Ms. Wilson stated that the
structure is grandfathered for the structure out to the L section. She pointed
out that reconstructing the L would not be allowable.
   Alderman Powell asked if a pump out station would be required and what
agency would need to permit it. Ms. Wilson stated that a pump out station would
be required when a facility had more than 10 slips. She added that a portable
station one could be used and permitting of a station was not under the
oversight of CAMA. She did not indicate which agency to contact.
   Option 3   The Corps suggested footprint dated November 9, 2017. This
footprint extends beyond existing first section of the dock and allows for an
"L" section to be in the Corps setback but not in the navigational channel. The
Corps will not allow pilings in the Federal Navigational Channel.
   Ms. Wilson explained that Option 3 was the option that would trigger a
denial and the need to pursue a variance as it would expand the footprint, be
considered new construction and would have to conform to current regulations.
   Responding to a query from Alderman Spencer, Ms. Wilson stated that tearing
off the L portion of the dock does not require a CAMA permit as long as no
digging occurs.
   Option 4   Small dock with no slips extending a maximum of ¼ of the water
body distance.
   Alderman Pukenas asked if consent from adjacent property owners would be
required for Option 4. Ms. Wilson stated that those properties with riparian
rights would only need to be notified of the project. City Manager Oakley noted
that Option 4 would allow for two (2) or three (3) slips only.
   Option 5   The City of Southport Basin Expansion project; creates a dock
approximately 800 feet long, portions owned by the Southport Marina and City of
Southport. The City of Southport would provide a perpetual easement to the
Southport Marina and the dock would be managed by the Southport Marina.
   Alderman Mosteller asked if Option 5 would require a new permit, which would
be turned down, and then have to go through the variance process. Ms. Wilson
concurred.
   Alderman Mosteller asked if a joint permit was submitted by the City and
Southport Marina and one party wanted to withdraw, would both parties have to
withdraw. Ms. Wilson responded that both parties would have to withdraw.
   Speaking about Option 5, Alderman Mosteller stated that the increased size
and scale of the proposed project would include nearly 800 feet of dock wrapped
around the marsh, have 50 slips, Marina section would include 40 ft. slips that
are contrary to everything currently in the Yacht Basin and the investment for
taxpayers would be larger than what can be grandfathered in.
   Alderman Pukenas asked Mr. Whitley if any restrictions would be in place on
the 40 ft. slips to prohibit extension into the navigational channel. Mr.
Whitley stated that the Marina's goal would be to have boats that fit into the
slips and do not extend into the channel.
   Alderman Spencer asked if the Marina would allow public access on their
dock. Speaking to the potential partnership with the City, Mr. Whitley stated
that access would be open on the city portion of the dock and controlled on the
Marina's portion. Alderman Spencer stated appreciation for and thanked
Southport Marina for being a good neighbor.
   Alderman Mosteller noted that objections and concerns were received from the
Cape Fear Pilots Association regarding navigation within the Yacht Basin and
that larger working fish boats are not as maneuverable as the Pilot boats. She
added that business owners submitted letters about the potential negative
impacts. She commented that the Board had reached a crossroad and had a duty to
protect the Yacht Basin, the heart of the community, its history. She stated
her opinion that it was never envisioned that the Yacht Basin would become part
of the Marina which would be counter to the CAMA Core Land Use Plan and the
City's vision and core value - historic preservation.
   Mayor Dove asked if the Marina would have objections to the City rebuilding
the dock in the current footprint and if the Marina would continue with their
plans to build boat slips along the marsh. Mr. Moore replied that the Marina
would have to explore its options.
   Option 6   Do nothing.
   Alderman Pukenas thanked Ms. Wilson and Mr. Horton for attending the meeting
and helping the Board work through the issue.
   Alderman Coring stated appreciation for the information and said that his
questions and concerns had been addressed.
    Alderman Mosteller thanked Mr. Moore and Mr. Whitley for attending the
meeting. She stated her hope that the Marina would join with the City in
preserving the marsh and maintaining the Yacht Basin as a working dock.
   Mayor Dove thanked CAMA, the Corps, Marina and citizens for attending the
meeting.
   Alderman Pukenas shared a statement he found in a historical book about
Southport, written by Mr. Curtis, Editor of the Southport Herald in 1909, and
which he felt still applied: "Southport is already a naturally beautiful city
and could be more so but growth to a larger and greater city is inevitable.
When the growth does come, it shouldn't be sacrificed to commercialism.
Destroying the natural beauty and charm of the town to enhance commercial
development or preserve its unique qualities through development sensitive to
these values."
   Alderman Pukenas motioned, second by Alderman Powell to wait until the
September regular meeting to vote on the City Dock. Unanimous vote; motion
carried.
ADJOURN
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Spencer to adjourn the meeting.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
 
 
OCTOBER 15, 2018
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN     REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING  OCTOBER 15, 2018
223 E. BAY STREET     SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Karen Mosteller, Lora Sharkey, Jim Powell, Todd Coring,
Marc Spencer, Rick Pukenas
STAFF PRESENT:      Bruce Oakley, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
   David Fox, Public Works Director
   Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
   Randy Jones, Tourism Director
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   Thomas Lloyd, Planner
   Kate Marshall, Animal Protective Services/Code Enforcement Officer
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
   Mayor Dove called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
   Alderman Mosteller welcomed everyone and Rev. Stewart Milton, Trinity United
Methodist Church, gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Mosteller led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Public Comment
   Mr. Chris Schnell, 444 Lord Charles Drive, stated that a small set of
citizens had started a group to raise money to rebuild the yacht basin boat
dock. Speaking on behalf of the group, he implored the Board to vote to rebuild
the dock in its original footprint and to establish an Old Yacht Basin Dock
Account for receipt of donations.
   Stating she had recently moved, Ms. Jenny Dunn, 235 Sand Dollar, asked the
Aldermen to waive $40 of her utility bill for a $35 transfer application fee
and a $5 name change fee. She expressed disappointment in the policy allowing
the charges and contended that the fees were ridiculous.
   Ms. Debbie Barnes, 425 W. West Street, praised city officials for their
leadership and first responders, Sheriff’s Office and all city staff for their
response through Hurricane Florence. Pointing out that she gets a paper
statement each month and suggesting a way to save money, Ms. Barnes proposed
discontinuing the paper statements for those who pay their utilities through
auto draft.    
   Ms. Susan Rice, 203 Stuart Avenue, presented the following petition signed
by 32 citizens:
Petition for Additional Storm Drains for the City of Southport, NC
We, the residents of the City of Southport, petition the city to install
additional storm drains due to the severe flooding that occurs in the 100
through 300-Blk ranges of Stuart Avenue as well as the intersection of E.
Leonard Street. This is insufficient storm drainage for the city properties of
residents who suffer great flood issues during heavy rainstorms and
catastrophic weather events. Due to the city not being able to assist the
citizens with pumping as well as the lack of storm drains, citizens’ property
values are left to suffer in these exigent, reoccurring circumstances. What’s
more, since the construction of the new development ‘The Hammocks’ located off
of the 100-Blk of Stuart Avenue; flooding has become devastating to properties,
city streets and local roadways. This is creating additional issues within the
city such as sewage run-off and mosquito ridden standing water which not only
affects the property value but the health and welfare of the residents of this
area. The Brunswick County Health Department has issued dire warning of the
toxicity of this run-off which is a grave health concern to citizens and
animals alike. We have been made aware that there is existing storm water
pipeline that runs in the block ranges of the affected area of concern. We, the
below signed petitioners, have voiced our concerns and are seeking for the City
of Southport officials to not just recognize the issue as has been done in the
past; but to aid in helping its citizens to prevent further disaster and strife
within the community.
September 2018
   Having heard stories from longtime residents, Ms. Rice stated her
understanding that the flooding issues in the area have been on-going for some
time. She indicated there is currently water under her home causing mold to
grow and floors to buckle. She implored the Board to address the problem.
E)   Approval of Agenda
   Mayor Dove asked for an addition to the Consent Agenda: Item #6, Resolution
Proclaiming October 8-14, 2018 Fire Prevention Week and #7, Contract to Furnish
Professional Administrative and Consulting Services, McAdams & Associates, LLC.
   Mayor Dove reported that Agenda Item #8, Presentation; “Bring Your Own
Thermostat” Program needed to be rescheduled.
   City Manager Oakley asked for Agenda Item # 11; Consideration; Revised
Street Light Plan, to be tabled until the November meeting.
   Alderman Sharkey asked for addition of an Agenda Item; Adoption of Pay
Policy for Aldermen.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Spencer to approve the agenda
as amended.
Unanimous vote; motion carried
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Dove stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
F)   Announcements
   Mayor Dove congratulated State Port Pilot reporter Renee Spencer on winning
a first-place award for Best Sports Feature Story in the National Newspaper
Association’s 2018 Better Newspaper Contest.
   Stating it made him proud to serve the city, Mayor Dove commented on the
level of cooperation and assistance throughout the community during Hurricane
Florence.
   Mayor Dove announced that the annual Wooden Boat Show would be held
Saturday, November 3.
   Alderman Pukenas welcomed new employee, Ms. Kate Marshall, Animal Protective
Services/Code Enforcement Officer.
   Alderman Pukenas announced the following events:
Fort Johnston Scarrison, October 26 & 27
Classic Car Show, October 27 along Howe, Moore & Bay Streets
Pet Costume Contest, October 28 in Waterfront Park
   Alderman Spencer praised the community, city staff, and emergency services
personnel for the hard work during and after Hurricane Florence.
   Alderman Sharkey thanked everyone who volunteered, provided meals, lent a
helping hand and a smile. She stressed the importance of making improvements to
the city’s infrastructure the highest priority.
   Alderman Mosteller echoed appreciation to everyone and announced that the
This is Our Town Cleanup would be held November 3 beginning at 9:00 a.m.    
   Alderman Coring reiterated thanks and asked for patience during the recovery
process.
   Noting that there were two fire fatalities this year in the Southport Fire
District, Alderman Coring reported that Fire Prevention Week was busy educating
kids and senior citizens to the importance of fire safety.
   Stating it was the best group of people he had ever worked with, Alderman
Powell expressed appreciation to everyone that manned the Emergency Operations
Center during Hurricane Florence. He emphasized that Southport had been
completely cut off and thanks to the team work of Senator Rabon, Bald Head
Island Management, Coast Guard, Capital Power, and Brunswick Electric
Membership Corp. critical supplies reached Southport.
G)   Special Recognition
   Alderman Spencer recognized the Brunswick County Tennis Association for
their after-school and summer tutoring program. A letter from Mayor Dove in
support of the Association’s request for funding from the USTA Foundation NJTL
Grants Committee is included in its entirety:
October 15, 2018
Dear USTA Foundation NJTL Grants Committee:
We support the Brunswick County Tennis Association’s request for funding to
support their Tennis and Tutoring program. We believe their request is
important because their work benefits our children’s health and school
performance.
Participants in Brunswick County Tennis Association’s after-school and summer
tutoring and tennis instruction represent an under-served population that may
be more likely to engage in risky behaviors and/or fall behind in their
schoolwork.
An article in Southport’s newspaper, the State Port Pilot, on August 29, 2018
reported that the participants in the Parks and Recreation’s summer camp were
well prepared for a successful school year thanks to the partnership between
the Brunswick County Tennis Association and L. C. Outreach. Maureen Moore,
Program Coordinator for the Southport Parks and Recreation Department and in
charge of the after-school and summer programs said that it was “awesome” to
see how community organizations like L. C. Outreach and the Brunswick County
Tennis Association stepped up for the children of the community.
Please give this proposal your full attention and if we can answer anything
further, please let us know. We may be reached at 910-457-7925 or
jv_dove@southportnc.org
On behalf of the Southport Board of Aldermen, I am,
Sincerely yours,
J.V. Dove, Mayor
City of Southport
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Sharkey to approve the Consent
Agenda as amended. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   1.    Approval of Minutes for August 1, Special Meeting, August 9 Regular
Meeting, August 29 Special    Meeting – approved
   2.   Resolution; Southport Wooden Boat Show - approved
   3.   Proclamation; Domestic Violence Awareness Month – approved
   4 .   Contract Amendment; Johnson Environmental and Disaster Consulting
Services – approved
      (Contract on file in the Clerk’s office)
   5.   Contract Amendment; DRC Emergency Services, LLC for C & D Debris
Removal and Vegetative Debris Removal and Disposal – approved (Contract on file
in the Clerk’s office)
   6.   Resolution; Resolution Proclaiming October 8-14, 2018 Fire Prevention
Week– approved
   7.   Contract to Furnish Professional Administrative and Consulting
Services, McAdams & Associates, LLC - approved (Contract on file in the Clerk’s
office)
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, on Saturday, November 3, 2018 the Southport Wooden Boat Show will be
held at the Old Southport Yacht Basin; and
WHEREAS, the 9th Annual Southport Wooden Boat Show, a 501(c) 3 organization
will be held from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m.; and
WHEREAS, this year’s show is expected to be bigger and better than the previous
events with more boats, demonstrators, nautical/maritime exhibits and children
events; and
WHEREAS, boats will be displayed in and around the historic Old Yacht Basin;
and
WHEREAS, visitors can meet and talk with wooden boat makers and owners; and
WHEREAS, visitors will be able to vote for their favorite boat entrant for the
People’s Choice Award, and
WHEREAS, other awards will be given in various categories; and
WHEREAS, wooden boat shows across the country are popular with boat builders
and restorers; and
WHEREAS, the Southport Wooden Boat Show Committee encourages people to preserve
the wooden boat and nautical history for which Southport is known.
NOW  THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Mayor and Southport Board of Aldermen
on this the 15th day of October, hereby proclaim November 3, 2018 as Southport
Wooden Boat Show Day in the City of Southport and invite citizens and
surrounding communities to help make this day a success.
                      /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor      
/s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
CITY OF SOUTHPORT
DOMESTIC VIOLENCE AWARENESS MONTH
PROCLAMATION
WHEREAS, Domestic Violence Awareness Month, also known as DVAM originated from
the “Day of Unity” that was held in October of 1981 and was conceived by the
National Coalition Against Domestic Violence. This single day quickly evolved
into an entire week and in 1987 the first Domestic Violence Awareness Month was
observed; and
WHEREAS, Domestic Violence Awareness Month founders began this initiative to
connect advocates across the nation who were already working to end violence
against women and their children. The goal was to bring together the
individuals in a group effort to have a stronger voice against violence; and
WHEREAS, The, now month, of awareness is full of activities to make it known to
each participating community the serious issue that our nation is undergoing.
It is also an opportunity to let them know the resources available to them in
the case that they were to need help; and
WHEREAS, The advocates and staff here at Hope Harbor Home take great pride in
this month of activities and see it as an opportunity to reach more people in
Brunswick County who may be looking for help. HHH has been in operation for
over 30 years and in those years has served thousands of women, men, and
children. Domestic Violence Awareness Month sends a clear, much needed, message
that Brunswick County, North Carolina is united against violence.
NOW THEREFORE, I, J. V. Dove, Mayor of the City of Southport, North Carolina,
and the Board of Aldermen, do hereby proclaim October as Domestic Violence
Awareness Month in the City and urge all citizens of Southport to show your
support for ending domestic violence.
This 15th day of October 2018.
                     /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
Resolution
Proclaiming October 8 – 14, 2018
Fire Prevention Week
WHEREAS, the Southport Fire Department is committed to ensuring the safety and
security of all those living in and visiting our Fire District; and
WHEREAS, fire is a serious public safety concern both locally and nationally,
and homes are the locations where people are at the greatest risk of fire; and
WHEREAS, the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) has documented through
its research a significant increase in home fires, and due to this fact, it is
important that everyone know two ways out of your home in case of a fire; and
WHEREAS, the Firefighters of the Southport Fire Department are dedicated to
reducing the occurrence of residential and commercial structural fires and fire
related injuries through prevention and protection education; and
WHEREAS, the residents of the Southport Fire District are responsive to public
education measures and are able to take personal steps to increase their safety
from fire; and
WHEREAS, being prepared in the event of a home fire will have a positive effect
on the home fire problem; and
WHEREAS, each home fire that is prevented in the Southport Fire District is an
opportunity to prevent painful injury and costly property damage; and
WHEREAS, the 2018 Fire Prevention Week theme, Hot Things Burn, effectively
serves to remind us all of the simple actions we can take to stay safer from
fire every day.
THEREFORE, I J. V. Dove, Mayor of the City of Southport do hereby proclaim
October 8-14, 2018 as Fire Prevention Week throughout this City, and I urge all
the citizens of Southport to heed the important safety messages from the
Southport Fire Prevention Team, and the Office of the City Fire Marshal and to
support the many public safety activities and efforts of the Southport Fire
Department.
                     /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
AGENDA  
8.   Presentation; “Bring Your Own Thermostat” Program by Dawn Peterson of
Itron
   Presentation Postponed.   
9.   Budget Amendment #1; Police Department & Board Contract Services
   Finance Director Trexler explained that the requested budget amendment was
for 90 days of police services provided by the Brunswick County Sheriff’s
Office and for funding the Police Department internal investigation contract
with USISS Agency.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Sharkey to approve Budget
Amendment #1. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2031_855x840.jpg]
Budget Amendment
Fiscal Year 2018-2019
Budget Amendment #01
WHEREAS, the City of Southport approved hiring Brunswick County Sherriff’s
Department to provide police services for the city and approved hiring USISS
Agency to conduct an internal investigation of the police department;
WHEREAS, the City needs to appropriate these funds from the General Fund
Balance; and
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2018-2019 needs to be amended to
reflect the use of these funds;
WHEREAS the Funds are available in the General Fund;
   NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport, North
Carolina that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2018-2019 shall be
amended as follows:
                                                                          Increase
      
General Fund Appropriations
10-00-3991-0000          $ 99,285
Expenditures               Increase/(Decrease)
10-10-4310-4400 Police Dept. Contract Services       $ 153,000
10-10-4310-0000 Police Dept Wages                (66,000)
10-10-4310-1100 Police Dept Group Health              (10,800)
10-10-4310-0700 Police 401k                      ( 3,300)
10-10-4310-0900 Police Fica                 ( 5,000)
10-10-4310-1000 Police Retirement             (5,000)
                      $ 62,900
10-00-4110-4400 Board Contract Services                $ 36,385         
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, October 15,
2018.
                     /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor      
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk            
10.   Budget Amendment #2; Year End Roll Over
   Finance Director Trexler explained the requested budget amendment for
projects that were not completed at the end of fiscal year 2017-2018.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to approve Budget
Amendment #2.  Unanimous vote; motion carried.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2034_855x840.jpg]
Budget Amendment
Fiscal Year 2018-2019
Budget Amendment #2
WHEREAS the City of Southport has purchase orders for projects that were not
completed at end of the fiscal year 2017-2018 and they will roll over to the
next fiscal year; and
WHEREAS there are sufficient funds in the General Fund, and Electric Fund; and
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2018-2019 needs to be amended to
reflect the additional appropriation of funds and expenditures to complete
these projects;
   BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2018-2019 shall be
amended as follows:
                                                   Increases
Revenues:
Appropriated Fund Balance
10-00-3991-0000 General Fund            $ 80,127.77
30-00-3991-0000 Electric Fund            $876,727.74
  Total Fund Appropriations            $956,855.51
Expenditures
General Fund Expenditures
Capital Outlay – Cades Cove Project
10-05-4511-5800
PO # 029554 Engineering                     $ 1,000.00
029485   Camera outfall line Cades Cove          4,200.00
029661 Landscaping repairs Cades Cove          2,000.00
Remaining Bond for Cades Cove          69,401.52
10-03-4190-3502
PO #029498 Builders First Choice Generator Surround        $2,283.75
10-11-4340-3200
PO # 029610 ATMC    (Phone Repairs Fire Dept.)                    $1,242.50
Total General Fund Expenditures               $80,127.77
Electric Fund Expenditures
30-93-7210-5900
Electric Department                  
PO’s # 029683 Fodale underground               $752,710.27
029547 Lord St underground             75,090.38
30-93-7210-4900
029497 ROW Trimming                45,927.09
30-93-7210-4400
029677 Misc tree removal                 
3,000.00                                                                                   
Total Electric Fund Expenditures               $876,727.74
Total Expenditures                  $963,055.51
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, October 15, 2018
                     /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
/s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
11.   Consideration; Revised Street Light Plan
   Tabled Until November 8 meeting.
12.   Burial In Old Smithville Burying Ground
   Building Inspector Strickland explained a request from Mr. Samual Watts for
permission to place a cremation vault in a family plot in Old Smithville
Burying Ground. Mr. Strickland stated that the burying grounds were closed to
burials for all except those who had permits issued prior to August 31, 2000.
Mr. Strickland indicated that Mr. Watts did not have a permit and in order to
get an exception to the Ordinance, he would have to petition the Board of
Aldermen. Mr. Strickland stated that many years ago an archaeologist from
Raleigh was hired by a group of plot owners to do a survey and determine if
burials could be allowed. Those plots that the survey showed was clear were
issued permits. Responding to a query by Alderman Sharkey, Mr. Strickland
stated that a 2 x 2 area would hold a cremation vault.
   Alderman Sharkey motioned, second by Alderman Spencer to authorize Mr. Watts
to explore the possibility of having cremains put in cemetery plot as long as
he pays for a permit and pays for the archaeological survey to be performed to
the satisfaction of the Cemetery Superintendent.
Discussion
   Alderman Pukenas noted that the 2000 Ordinance requires a 3 x 8 plot.
   Alderman Mosteller stated her reluctance to permit an exception to the
Ordinance that she feels is well thought out and complete.
   Alderman Coring asked how Mr. Watts could obtain a permit and if many
requests of this type were made. Mr. Strickland stated that an archaeological
survey showing no evidence of burial would be required for issuance of a burial
permit and the last request was made by Joe Mintz.
   AYES:    Aldermen Sharkey, Spencer, Coring
   NAYS:    Aldermen Powell, Mosteller, Pukenas
   NAY:    Mayor Dove
   Motion fails 4-3
13.   Board Consideration of Replacing the City Dock in the Original Footprint
(outside the Army Corps of Engineers Navigational Channel)
   Noting that Southport Marina had withdrawn their interest in the city dock
project, Alderman Pukenas motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to direct
staff to pursue a design plan for a floating dock system, fixed dock system, or
a combination of the two in the original footprint and to expedite this as soon
as possible.
   Discussion
   Alderman Powell pointed out that the issue of a pump out station needed to
be addressed. Alderman Pukenas stated that a pump out station could be included
in the design plan.
   Alderman Sharkey emphasized that dredging of the entire Yacht Basin would be
required before a dock could be built. She pointed out that funding had not
been budgeted for dredging and the approval process is nine months to a year.
   Alderman Mosteller stated that the State has a 66/33 matching grant program
that the City could pursue and she felt it short sighted not to use the FEMA
reimbursement funds approved for Hurricane Matthew damage to the city dock. She
added that the time required for permitting would allow for people to donate
towards the project. She contended that rentals of boat slips would pay for
dock maintenance and upkeep.
   Alderman Powell agreed with Alderman Sharkey that dredging should be the
highest priority along with permission for a spoil site. He estimated the cost
could be upwards to $350,000.
   Alderman Pukenas shared his understanding that a design plan needs to be in
place before any approvals can be obtained from the permitting agencies. He
noted that citizens are interested in helping with funding. He agreed with
Alderman Mosteller that FEMA funds from Hurricane Matthew should be utilized.
   Alderman Sharkey asked how a design plan would be funded. She stated the
City has an obligation to clean up the old dock. She proposed going through a
Capital Improvement Plan and she questioned the investment of money for so few
slips.
   Alderman Mosteller voiced her understanding that the old dock could not be
removed until CAMA and the Army Corps of Engineers approved a replacement plan.
She suggested the slips could be awarded via a lottery with a three year
rental.
   AYES:    Aldermen Pukenas, Mosteller, Spencer, Coring
   NAYS: Aldermen Powell, Sharkey
   Motion carried 4-2   
14.   Adoption of Pay Policy for Aldermen
   Alderman Sharkey motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to discontinue the per
diem payments of $25 per meeting for each Alderman, excluding the Mayor and to
adopt the following policy:
   Aldermen compensation will consist of one monthly payment. This amount will
be the same for each of the Aldermen, regardless of committee assignments or
extra duties. Effective immediately, Aldermen will no longer receive extra
meeting pay. Funding for training and travel may be available depending on
money appropriated in the adopted City of Southport Budget. This policy applies
only to the position of Aldermen, it does not include the position of Mayor.
   Discussion
   Alderman Powell asked for a definition of a meeting. City Attorney Isenberg
responded that any duly called meeting of the Board of Aldermen with a quorum
is a meeting. He verified that every town/city is required by law to have a
regular monthly meeting and attendance as a liaison to other board or committee
meetings is not considered a meeting of the Board of Aldermen.
   Responding to a query by Alderman Coring, Alderman Sharkey stated that her
intent is to eliminate any payments for attending outside meetings and to
receive a flat monthly fee.
   Attorney Isenberg stated he had no issues with the proposed policy.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
   Alderman Mosteller reported that the Unified Development Ordinance (UDO)
update project is currently focusing on the CAMA Core Land Use Plan and Future
Land Use Plan Map. She pointed out that the UDO most be supported by a
statement of consistency with the Land Use Plan.
PROJECT REPORT
   City Manager Oakley reported that the internal investigation of the Police
Department is expected to be finalized soon.
   City Manager Oakley reported that Kate Marshall, Animal Protective Services/
Code Enforcement Officer, has been working with the Sheriff’s Office.   
STAFF REPORTS – provided in Agenda packet
BOARD COMMENTS
   Alderman Pukenas shared a comment he heard repeatedly after Hurricane
Florence; “What can I do to help?” He said he was thankful and truly blessed to
call Southport home.
   Alderman Spencer expressed appreciation for all the hard work taking place
on the City’s damaged and aged sewer and storm water systems. He stated
appreciation for help from Senator Rabon to facilitate the repairs. He urged
citizens to apply to FEMA and Small Business Administration for help.
   Alderman Powell encouraged citizens to attend and participate in the UDO
update meetings. He emphasized the need to strengthen the storm water ordinance
to eliminate flooding problems in the future.
   Alderman Mosteller asked staff to prepare a resolution to Piedmont Natural
Gas.
   Alderman Mosteller suggested mapping out the areas in the City that still
need to have electric moved underground and for the Board to adopt a long term
plan. She added that she was advised by BEMC that there is matching funds
available.
   Mayor Dove appointed Aldermen Mosteller and Pukenas to be liaisons to law
enforcement.
   Mayor Dove appointed Alderman Spencer to be liaison to the Emergency
Services Committee.
ADJOURN
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to adjourn the
meeting.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
                              
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
OCTOBER 23, 2018
SPECIAL SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN       SPECIAL SESSION MINUTES
FIRE HEADQUARTERS - EOC OCTOBER 23, 2018
1011 N. HOWE STREET     SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Karen Mosteller, Lora Sharkey, Jim Powell, Marc Spencer,
Rick Pukenas
ABSENT:         Alderman Todd Coring
STAFF PRESENT:      Bruce Oakley, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
   Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   Tyler Johnson, Deputy Fire Chief
A)   Call to Order – 5:00 p.m.
   Mayor Dove called the meeting to order at 5:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
   Alderman Mosteller welcomed everyone and Chief Drew gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Mosteller led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
AGENDA
   1.   Resolution Approving Contract for Emergency Repairs
   Alderman Powell asked to be recused. Alderman Pukenas motioned, second by
Alderman Sharkey to recuse Alderman Powell. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   City Manager Oakley explained that Ellixson & Sons, Inc. were retained to
make emergency repairs to the drainage and sewer systems of the City due to
Hurricane Florence. He stated that Ellixson was the only contractor in the area
at the time. Responding to a query by Alderman Sharkey, City Manager Oakley
reported that the majority of the repairs have been completed.
   Alderman Sharkey motioned, second by Alderman Spencer to adopt the
Resolution Approving and Ratifying Emergency Contract for emergency repairs
with Ellixson & Sons, Inc. Unanimous vote; motion carried.    (Contract on file
in the Clerk’s Office)
RESOLUTION APPROVING AND RATIFYING EMERGENCY CONTRACT
   THAT WHEREAS, G. S. 143-129 (e)(2) permits cities to enter into contracts
without going through the required bidding process in cases of special
emergency involving the health and safety of the people or their property; and
   WHEREAS, on or about September 14, 2018, Hurricane Florence struck the City
of Southport causing widespread damage and destruction; and
   WHEREAS, Hurricane Florence impacted the drainage and sewer systems of the
City necessitating immediate action by City staff in order to protect the
health and safety of the people; and
   WHEREAS, city staff immediately retained the services of Ellixson & Sons,
Inc., to perform emergency repairs as follows:
Storm drain repair on West 11th Street
Storm drain repair on Herring Drive
Storm drain repair on Park Avenue Extension
Storm drain repair on Atlantic Avenue
Storm drain repair on Caswell Avenue
Storm drain repair at Willis and Moore Streets
Sewer main repair at Howe and Brown Streets ; and
              WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen has determined and hereby finds
this to be a case of special emergency involving the health and safety of the
people or their property and that it was necessary for city staff to contract
with said contractor for immediate repairs to the drainage and sewer systems of
the city;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport that the contract dated September 16, 2018, between the City of
Southport and Ellixson & Sons, Inc., for the above-described work was entered
into as a result of a special emergency involving the health and safety of the
people and said contract is hereby approved and ratified.
   This the 23rd day of October, 2018.            City of Southport
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
   2.   Amendment to Personnel Policy – Section 3. Retirement Insurance
   City Manager Oakley explained that the proposed amendment to the Personnel
Policy would allow for employees hired after March 14, 2013 to receive benefits
after 20 years of service. He added that the benefit would help the City
recruit and retain good employees.
   Alderman Mosteller noted that neighboring communities provide the benefit.
Alderman Pukenas pointed out that Southport has been losing employees. Alderman
Sharkey emphasized that the proposed amendment would also provide a family
option for the employee which is not provided by Brunswick County.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to approve the
amendment. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
A RESOLUTION AMENDING THE PERSONNEL POLICY
WITH REGARD TO RETIREE HEALTH INSURANCE
   WHEREAS the City of Southport Personnel Policy, Article IX, Section 3,
provides for certain health, life, and dental insurance benefits to be paid to
retirees, and
   WHEREAS the Board of Aldermen desires to amend such benefits for persons who
are hired or become creditable service employees going forward, but to leave
unchanged such benefits as they may apply to current retirees or creditable
service employees;
   BE IT RESOLVED that the Personnel Policy of the City of Southport, Article
IX, Section 3 is amended by the language shown below:
   The second and third paragraphs of this section, relating to the payment of
health, life, and dental insurance coverage for retired employees, shall not
apply to any employee who begins creditable service in the retirement system as
a City of Southport employee after March 14, 2013 or who is hired as a City
employee after March 14, 2013.
Retiring employees must make an election to continue or terminate coverage at
the time of their retirement. It they waive the right to continue at the date
of retirement, they may not elect coverage at a future date.
Employees hired after March 14, 2013 who retire with twenty (20) years of
creditable service with the City and are at least 55 years of age or have at
least thirty (30) years of creditable service as defined and accepted by the
North Carolina Local Government Employee’s Retirement System of which at least
(5) five of the years are with the City may continue in the City’s group health
and dental plans with the City paying 100% of the premium for the employee’s
coverage and the employee paying 100% of the premium for family or spouse
coverage. When the employee becomes eligible for Medicare, such coverage in the
City’s group plans will be the Medicare supplement, if offered by the plan
provider.
This the 23rd day of October, 2018.         City of Southport
   /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
   3.   Closed Session – 5:09 p.m.
      Pursuant to N.C.G.S. 143-318.11(a) (6) to discuss a personnel matter.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to go into Closed
Session pursuant to N.C.G.S. 143-318.11(a) (6) to discuss a personnel matter.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Return to Open Session – 5:26 p.m.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Sharkey to come out of Closed
Session. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Mayor Dove announced that during the Closed Session, the Board discussed the
performance of the City Manager.
   Alderman Pukenas motioned, second by Alderman Powell to increase the salary
of the City Manager by 5% retroactive to September 1, 2018. Unanimous vote;
motion carried.
   Mayor Dove read a letter of resignation from Alderman & Mayor Pro Tem
Coring.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to accept the
resignation of Alderman Coring. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   City Manager Oakley announced that Todd Coring had been chosen to be the
next Chief of Police for the city of Southport. Manager Oakley’s comments
included in their entirety:
October 23, 2018 – Todd Coring has agreed to become the next Police Chief for
the City of Southport. Todd brings over twenty years of law enforcement
experience with the Brunswick County Sheriff’s Office, where he currently
serves as a Lieutenant. He is also a lifetime resident of Southport who has
served the City since he was a teenager. He has not only worked for the City
but also currently serves as the Assistant Chief of the Southport Fire
Department and has served on the Board of Aldermen since his first election in
2011. Through all these endeavors, he has consistently demonstrated the
leadership qualities needed to be a great Police Chief.
Todd’s vast experience in law enforcement along with his dedication to public
service made the decision to hire Todd an easy one. He not only knows a lot
about law enforcement in general, but is very familiar with City’s Police
Department having worked there as a dispatcher before becoming an Officer with
Brunswick County Sheriff’s Office. His experience as an Alderman has also given
him a great understanding of how the City operates and has helped him develop a
strong trust with the community.
Another strong advantage he brings is the relationship he has developed with
Sheriff Ingram while working for him. This experience will only strengthen our
relationship with the Sheriff’s Office and will hopefully lead to partnerships
that help the Southport Police Department carry on the example the Sheriff’s
Office has set over the past few months.
After gauging his interest in the position and evaluating his credentials, it
was clear that we should pursue him for the job. Although the position vacancy
was not officially announced, we received dozens of resumes from some highly
trained and capable people, but no matter how hard we looked, I don’t believe
we could find one with the combination of Todd’s experience and his long
dedication to the service of Southport. Therefore, I decided not to formally
announce the vacancy or conduct a candidate search before making this decision.
Hiring him now, before the Internal Audit of the Police Department that the
U.S.I.S.S. Agency is working on is completed, gives him the opportunity to work
with them as they finish the report and he can see firsthand where improvements
and changes are needed. It will also give him additional insight and the chance
to ask them questions as he develops new policies, procedures, and establishes
a new direction for the department. It will also allow us to re-activate the
department sooner.
   Noting that Southport native Todd Coring has been involved in community
relations while serving in the Sheriff’s Office, and has a history of law
enforcement in his family, Mayor Dove commended the City Manager for choosing
Todd for the next Southport Police Chief. Mayor Dove stated that he has had the
privilege of working with Todd for 20 years.
ADJOURN
   Alderman Pukenas motioned, second by Alderman Powell to adjourn the meeting.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
                              
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
NOVEMBER 8, 2018
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN        REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
RIVERMIST AMENITY CENTER NOVEMBER 8, 2018
5211 FLANK COURT         SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:
Mayor J. V. Dove
Aldermen Karen Mosteller, Lora Sharkey, Jim Powell, Rick Pukenas, Marc Spencer
STAFF PRESENT:
Bruce Oakley, City Manager
Michele Windham, City Clerk
Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
Todd Coring, Police Chief
Charles Drew, Fire Chief
David Fox, Public Works Director
Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
Randy Jones, Tourism Director
B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
Thomas Lloyd, Planner
Kate Marshall, Animal Protective Services/Code Enforcement Officer
A)   Call to Order - 6:00 p.m.
   Mayor Dove called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
   Alderman Powell welcomed everyone and Mayor Dove gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Powell led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Public Comment
   Mr. Tom Lombardi, 5021 Oarlock Court, on behalf of Rivermist residents,
welcomed the Mayor, Board and city officials to the Rivermist Amenity Center.
   Mr. Roy Miller, 5504 Seaward Court requested that the Rivermist storm drains
be inspected and cleared of any debris. Mr. Miller praised city staff for their
fast response during Hurricane Florence.
ETHICS STATEMENT:
   Mayor Dove stated, "If any member of the Board knows of any conflict of
interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect to matters on
the agenda, to please so state it at this time."
E)   Approval of Agenda
   Mayor Dove asked for addition of:
      •   Piedmont Gas Resolution to the Consent Agenda as item #4.
      •   Contract for Disposal of Vegetative Debris to the regular Agenda as
item #5.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to approve the Agenda
as amended. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
F)   Announcements
   Noting that storm relief work would continue for several months, Alderman
Powell asked for patience while repairs are being made.
   Mayor Dove introduced a representative from the Small Business
Administration (SBA) who announced that the SBA had extended the deadline for
application for low interest loans until December 13 for damages incurred from
Hurricane Florence. She emphasized the importance of following the process.
   Mayor Dove announced the attendance of Colonel Carlisle, commanding officer
of Sunny Point and read the following into the record:
The Military Ocean Terminal Sunny Point (MOTSU) as it exists today was
established in 1955 by the Department of The Army and is the largest military
terminal anywhere in the world. It serves as a transfer point between rail,
trucks, and ships for the import and export of weapons, ammunition, explosives
and military equipment for United States Army. In event armed conflict since
its creation the Military Ocean Terminal Sunny Point has played a role in
supporting deployed units.
August 15, 2018 was an important day in history for Military Ocean Terminal
Sunny Point. It's the first time a woman has reported for duty to serve as
commander of the 596th Transportation Brigade. Colonel Carlisle credits her
father, a veteran of the U.S. Air Force and her family for being her
inspiration to join the U.S. Army. Throughout her 23 year career she has been
deployed to Korea, Iraq, Afghanistan and has been stationed in Hawaii and
Alaska. This is her first time living in North Carolina.
Please join myself and the Board of Aldermen in welcoming Colonel Heather J.
Carlisle to Military Ocean Terminal Sunny Point and out community.
   Mayor Dove announced that he would hold "Mayor's Day" on Thursday, November
15, 4:00-5:30 p.m. in the Fire Substation, 111 E. Nash Street.
   Mayor Dove recognized Veterans Day.
   Mayor Dove announced that Shaw Day would be held at Friendship Missionary
Baptist Church, Sunday, November 11, 11 :00 a.m.
   Alderman Pukenas welcomed Todd Coring as Southport's new Police Chief and
Sunny Point Commander Colonel Carlisle.
   Alderman Pukenas announced the following:
      •   Shop Small Saturday November 24
      •   WinterFest Tea Party, December 1st, 1:00 p.m., Community Building
      •   Annual Cookie Contest, December 5th, 3:00 - 5:30 p.m., Community
Building
      •   Supper with Santa's Elves, December 5th, 5:00 - 7:00 p.m., 209
Atlantic Avenue
      •   Costumed WinterFest History Tour, December 6th, 5:00 - g:oo p.m.,
Maritime Museum
      •   Winter Craft Festival, December 8th, 9:00 a.m. - 4:00 p.m., Franklin
Square Park
      •   Friends of the Library Book Sale, December 8th, 9:00 a.m. - 12:00
p.m., 727 N. Howe Street
      •   Old Brunswick County Jail Tours, December 8th, 1:00 - 6:00 p.m.
      •   Christmas Flotilla, December 8th , 7:00 p.m. on the Waterfront
   Alderman Spencer expressed his appreciation to Sunny Point for providing
employment to his father and the community.
   Alderman Sharkey thanked Rivermist for hosting the Board's meeting.
G)   Special Recognition - Todd Coring
   Former Alderman Coring was recognized by the Board for his service. Mayor
Dove presented him with an engraved crystal clock and a gavel believed to have
been used in the former Southport Court House.
   Alderman Spencer expressed his pride in seeing Todd Coring as Southport's
new Police Chief.
   Alderman Mosteller read personal remarks about how much she enjoyed working
with Alderman Coring, his dedication to the city, and his decision to become
the Police Chief.
   Alderman Powell expressed his confidence in Mr. Coring as Southport's Police
Chief.
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Pukenas motioned, second by Alderman Powell to approve the Consent
Agenda. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   1.   Approval of Minutes for October 15 Regular Meeting & October 23 Special
Meeting - approved
   2.   NCDOT Acquisition of Right-of-Way- approved
   3.   Agreement with NC Division of Emergency Management to Install Rainfall
Monitoring Device at Southport Fishing Pier - approved
   4.   Resolution; Piedmont Natural Gas Company - approved
AGENDA
   5.   Disposal of Vegetative Matter
   City Manager Oakley presented a contract with Carolina Tree and Landscape
Service for removal of the chipped vegetative matter to be disposed of per FEMA
regulations. He stated the project had been bid out and Carolina Tree and
Landscape Service was the low bidder.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to approve the contract
to dispose of vegetative matter. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   6.   Consideration: 11th Street right-of-way and alley abandonment
   City Planner Lloyd explained that RHH Land Investors has a project going
through the Planned Building Group site plan process. He stated the developer
is requesting the Board of Aldermen abandon a portion of the 11 th Street
right-of-way as well as a 10 ft. wide alley in between the project and
properties fronting on Caswell A venue in order to make use of the property to
enhance the landscape plan. Mr. Lloyd emphasized that closure of the 10 ft.
alley would result with half of the alley going to the developer and half going
to the adjacent property owners.
   Planner Lloyd explained the process outlined in GS 16A-299 that must be
followed if the Board decides to close the right-of-way and alley.
      •   Publication of the resolution once a week for four successive weeks
prior to the public hearing.
      •   Registered or certified mail notice to owners of property adjoining
the public way.
      •   Posted notice of the proposed closing in at least two places along
the public way.
   Alderman Mosteller expressed her opinion that abandonment of the alley would
allow for better maintenance of the property and she stated her support. She
shared her hesitation to support abandonment of the right-of-way.
   Alderman Powell stated he would not support the requested abandonment.
   Responding to a query from Alderman Sharkey, City Attorney Isenberg advised
that if the Board decides to abandon the alley, a utility easement can be
reserved.
   Alderman Spencer motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to proceed to call
for a public hearing and for staff to prepare a resolution.
AYE: Aldermen Spencer, Mosteller, Sharkey, Pukenas
NAY: Alderman Powell
Motion carried 4-1
   7.    Budget Amendment #3; Estimated Hurricane Florence Clean Up and Repair
Costs
   Finance Director Trexler explained that Budget Amendment #3 is an estimate
of the cost for Hurricane Florence damage repairs. She reported that staff has
met with FEMA and begun the filing process for reimbursement.
   Alderman Sharkey motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to approve Budget
Amendment #3. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Budget Amendment
Fiscal Year 2018-2019
Budget Amendment #3
   WHEREAS the City of Southport has incurred expenditures for the cleanup and
repairs to the city's infrastructure and needs to appropriate fund balance to
pay these expenditures; and
   WHEREAS there are sufficient funds in the General Fund, and Water and Sewer
fund; and
   WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2018-2019 needs to be amended
to reflect the additional appropriation of funds and expenditures to complete
these projects;
   BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget  ordinance for fiscal year 2018-2019 shall be
amended as follows:
Revenues: Increases
Revenues:                                                     Increases
Appropriated Fund Balance                                      
10-00-3991-0000 General Fund                                  $ 710,000
31-00-3991-0000 Water & Sewer                                 $ 250,000
Total Fund Appropriations                                     $ 960,000
Expenditures                                                   
                                                              
General Fund Expenditures                                      
10-03-4190-3502 Contract Services Buildings & Grounds         $ 60,000
10-01-4120-4400 Contract Services Adm in Debris Clean up      $400,000
10-05-4511-2600 Street Department Street and Drainage Repairs $250,000
                                                              
Total General Fund Expenditures                               $710,000
                                                              
Water & Sewer Expenditures                                     
31-91-7130-3506 Sewer System Repairs                          $250,000
                                                              
Total Water & Sewer Fund Expenditures                         $250,000
                                                              
Total Expenditures                                            $960,000
 
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, November 8, 2018
                                       Isl J. V. Dove, Mayor
Isl Michele Windham, City Clerk
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   8.   Appointment; ABC Board
   Alderman Pukenas motioned, second by Alderman Powell to reappoint Mr. Robert
Jones as Chairman of the ABC Board. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   9.   Nominations for Alderman's Seat
   Noting there was a vacancy on the Board of Aldermen created by the
resignation of Alderman Coring and interest in the seat has been expressed by
several citizens, Mayor Dove opened nominations.
   Alderman Pukenas nominated Mr. Robert Tucker to fill the vacancy left by the
resignation of Mr. Todd Coring. The appointment would be for the remainder of
the term vacated by Mr. Coring.
   Alderman Sharkey nominated Mr. Tom Lombardi for consideration.
   Responding to a query from Alderman Spencer, Attorney Isenberg stated that
by State statutes the vacancy must be filled but there is no set time limit to
do so.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to close nominations.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Aldermen Pukenas, Powell and Mosteller voted for Mr. Tucker.
   Aldermen Sharkey and Spencer voted for Mr. Lombardi.
   3-2 Vote to appoint Mr. Robert Tucker to the Board of Aldermen. Mr. Tucker
will be sworn in at the next regular meeting.
COMMITTEE REPORTS - None
   Mayor Dove reminded Board members of what their role is as liaisons to
appointed committees; don't take over the committee/project, be helpful and
report committee findings to the Board of Aldermen.
   Mayor Dove appointed Aldermen Pukenas and Sharkey as liaisons to the
Emergency Services Committee.
   Mayor Dove appointed Alderman Spencer as liaison to the Planning Board.
   Mayor Dove appointed Alderman Sharkey as liaison to the Recreation Board.
REPORTS FROM MANAGER
   City Manager Oakley reported that the Hurricane Florence storm debris pick
up was completed. He thanked everyone for their patience and stated that staff
is working with FEMA to secure reimbursement.
   City Manager Oakley reported that work is proceeding to identify the areas
of damage throughout the city's storm drainage system. Noting that no storm
drain system can handle 30 inches of rain, he stated that staff is pursuing
state funding and federal grants for repair/replacement of the system.
   City Manager Oakley reported that he had met with a consultant regarding
grants for moving electric underground. He stated there are expected to be
opportunities to capitalize on grants this budget year.
STAFF REPORTS
   Reports included in the agenda packet.
   Police Chief Coring reported that he is taking an inventory of equipment,
patrol cars will be strategically parked around town, he anticipates moving the
department to City Hall, he will coordinate with the Fire Chief to keep a
police presence downtown in the fire substation and postings will be advertised
for vacant positions.
   Responding to a query from Mayor Dove, Chief Drew reported on the status of
the Southport Crossing fire department substation. He stated the preliminary
drawings have been received and reviewed by the Emergency Services Committee.
BOARD COMMENTS
   Alderman Sharkey asked the City Manager to schedule a post hurricane review.
   Mayor Dove wished everyone a Happy Thanksgiving.
ADJOURN
   Alderman Pukenas motioned, second by Alderman Spencer to adjoin the meeting.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2827.png]
 
DECEMBER 13, 2018
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN     REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING  OCTOBER 15, 2018
223 E. BAY STREET     SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Karen Mosteller, Lora Sharkey, Jim Powell, Marc Spencer,
            Rick Pukenas
STAFF PRESENT:      Bruce Oakley, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
   Police Chief, Todd Coring
   David Fox, Public Works Director
   Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
   Randy Jones, Tourism Director
   Deputy Fire Chief, Tyler Johnson
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   Thomas Lloyd, Planner
   Kate Marshall, Animal Protective Services/Code Enforcement Officer
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Dove called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Spencer welcomed everyone and gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Spencer led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Public Comment
   Ms. Amber Hills, Turtlewood subdivision resident, shared her experience with
traffic not stopping for a school bus in the Turtlewood subdivision and she
spoke about vehicles speeding and not stopping for stop signs in the
development. She suggested painting STOP and crosswalks on the pavement,
posting of Slow Children at Play signs, placement of solar powered speed signs
that flash, center lines painted on the roadway, speed limit lowered to 20 mph,
and increased law enforcement corresponding with the ferry schedule.
   Mr. Robert Clarke, 711 Alyssum Avenue, lobbied to have a roundabout versus
bridges installed during the NC 211/Long Beach Road Extension widening. He
contended that the Board of Aldermen along with the Town of Oak Island and St.
James could request the alteration.
E)   Approval of Agenda
   Mayor Dove asked for additions to the Agenda:
Item G, Special Recognition – 103rd Birthday of Robert C. Ruark, Jr.
Item I, Election of Mayor Pro Tem
Agenda Item #7 moved to Agenda Item #5   
   Alderman Sharkey asked for Consent Agenda Item #2, The Oaks at Highland Park
Subdivision Phase 2 Final Plat, be moved to the Regular Agenda.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to approve the agenda
as amended.
Unanimous vote; motion carried
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Dove stated, "If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time."
F)   Announcements
   Noting that requests had been made to him, Mayor Dove asked Board members to
think of a way the Board could do a tribute to Ed Harper.
   Alderman Pukenas shared the modified schedule for trash, recycling and yard
waste pick up during the Christmas holiday.
   Alderman Spencer announced that Mt. Carmel AME Church would be holding its
2nd annual Yuletide Extravaganza, December 15, 2:00 p.m. at the Brunswick
Senior Center.
   Alderman Sharkey announced that Mt. Carmel Church would be hosting a free
community concert December 21, 5:00 p.m. on the lawn of 507 N. Lord Street. She
stated the concert would be a mix of contemporary hymns, traditional Christmas
carols and hot cocoa would be provided.
   Alderman Mosteller announced that the Beautification Committee monthly "This
is Our Town" would be held Saturday, January 5, 9:00 a.m. to noon with focus on
removing Christmas decorations.
G)   Special Recognition
   The Board recognized Mr. Russ Ferris, Mr. Ben Wilson and Mrs. Gibby Wilson
as "Tree Champions". Alderman Mosteller, speaking on behalf of the Forestry
Committee, pointed out that in order to receive the recognition, citizens must
demonstrate a commitment to maintaining Southport's qualify of life by saving
as many trees as possible to support the canopy that beautifies the community.
She stated that Mr. Farris contributed funds to replace three (3) failing
right-of-way trees in front of his home and Mr. and Mrs. Wilson contributed
funds earmarked specifically for the care of the Keziah Park Indian Trail Tree.
   Forestry Committee members in attendance joined the Board in recognizing a
founding member of the Forestry Committee, Ms. Betty Timberlake, for her
dedication, passion and annual contributions to preserving the City's Live Oak
Trees. Ms. Timberlake spoke and stated that newcomers and visitors talk about
the city's trees, the trees are protectors during hurricanes, a gift from God
and she asked residents to go lightly with chainsaws and to not plant palm
trees.
   Alderman Pukenas read a Resolution Honoring the 103rd Birthday of Robert C.
Ruark, Jr.
A RESOLUTION HONORING THE 103rd BIRTHDAY OF
ROBERT C. RUARK, JR.
WHEREAS, Robert C. Ruark,, Jr. was born in Wilmington on December 29, 1915; and
WHEREAS, Ruark achieved international success as a newspaper and magazine
columnist and author; and
WHEREAS, Ruark spent a great deal of his childhood visiting his maternal
grandparents, Capt. Ned and Lottie Adkins at their home in Southport; and
WHEREAS, Among Ruark's works were the beloved book, The Old Man and the Boy; a
semi-autographical work defined by the philosophical musings of his
grandfather; and
WHEREAS, Ruark's success brought much attention to Southport which continues to
this day.
BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the City of Southport hereby designates December 29, 2018 as
"Robert C. Ruark, Jr." day in his honor.
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, December 13,
2018.
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
H)   Swearing in of Alderman
   Alderman Robert Tucker was sworn in by Mayor Dove. Alderman Tucker fills the
seat formerly held by Todd Coring, term expiration December 2019.
I)   Election of Mayor Pro Tem
   Alderman Mosteller nominated Alderman Pukenas for Mayor Pro Tem.
   Alderman Spencer nominated Alderman Powell for Mayor Pro Tem.

   Alderman Sharkey motioned, second by Alderman Tucker to close nominations
for Mayor Pro Tem. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Vote:   Aldermen Mosteller, Tucker and Sharkey for Alderman Pukenas as Mayor
Pro Tem.
      Aldermen Spencer for Alderman Powell as Mayor Pro Tem.
   Alderman Pukenas voted Mayor Pro Tem per a 3-1 vote.
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Pukenas motioned, second by Alderman Sharkey to approve the Consent
Agenda. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Approval of Minutes for November 8 Regular Meeting – approved
   2.   The Oaks at Highland Park Subdivision Phase 2 Final Plat – Item moved
to regular Agenda
   3.   Ordinance Amending Chapter 10, Article VII of the Southport City Code,
For-Hire Tours – approved
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 10, ARTICLE VII, OF THE SOUTHPORT CITY CODE
BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport that Chapter
10, Article VII, of the Southport City Code is hereby amended to read as
follows:
ARTICLE VII. FOR-HIRE TOURS
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
Sec. 10-156. Purpose and authority.
It is the purpose of this division to require that all walking and vehicle
tours operated within the City of Southport for profit be licensed and
regulated as set forth in this article. This article is not intended to
regulate walking and vehicle tours conducted by nonprofit organizations such as
the Southport Historical Society, the North Carolina Maritime Museum at
Southport or schools. Furthermore, the provisions of this article shall not
apply to tours conducted entirely off the public streets, sidewalks, rights-of-
way or municipal property.
Sec. 10-157. Definitions.
The following words, terms, and phrases when used in this article shall have
the meaning described to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
Amplifying device shall mean any equipment or apparatus that broadens or
magnifies the human voice, music or any sound.
Charter routes shall mean the approved route of travel for any tour.
Person shall mean a natural person, corporation, company, partnership, limited
liability company, or other organization operating for profit.
Public right-of-way shall mean any street, highway, sidewalk, parking lot or
alley that is owned, controlled, maintained or operated by the "city" or State
of North Carolina.
Tour or touring shall mean the conducting of or the participation in
sightseeing on foot or in a vehicle in the "city" for hire or in combination
with a request for donations.
Tour guide shall mean any person who acts or offers to act as a guide for hire
or compensation through any part of the "city" to pedestrians or vehicle
passengers.
Tour guide permit shall mean the written authority granted by the tourism
commission for an individual to conduct a sightseeing tour on foot or by
vehicle within the "city".
Vehicle shall mean bicycles, pedicabs, animal drawn or motorized vehicles used
to transport members of a sightseeing tour.
LICENSES AND BUSINESS REGULATIONS
DIVISION 2. TOUR GUIDE PERMIT
Sec. 10-158. Required Permit; Number of Permits.
No person shall offer a for-hire tour within the corporate limits of the City
of Southport unless such person shall have first applied for and obtained from
the City a tour guide permit. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a
tour in any manner contrary to the provisions of this article or without first
having obtained said permit. No more than three (3) walking tour permits, four
(4) low-speed vehicle tour permits and one (1) animal-drawn vehicle permit may
be issued and in effect at any time. Issuance of permits is determined by the
date in which it is received.
Sec. 10-159. Application.
Each applicant for a tour guide permit shall submit in writing an application
to the City of Southport Code Enforcement Officer containing the following
information and documentation: (Application forms available at Southport City
Hall)
   The name, address and telephone number of the owner and operator of the
business. If the applicant is a partnership, the names and addresses of the
general partners; if a corporation the names and addresses of the    directors
and officers; if a limited liability company, the names and addresses of the
members and managers.
   A copy of a valid North Carolina driver's license.
   A criminal record check of the previous 5 years which includes criminal and
driving record.
   The address and phone number from which the applicant will conduct business
operations.
   A description of the charter route to be used by the applicant including
starting point and stopping points along the route.
   A description of the hours of operation of the proposed business and the
proposed hours during which the tours will be conducted.
   A detailed description (script) of the information to be given to the
members of the tour related to those sights    to be viewed within the "city",
including a copy of any published literature proposed to be provided by the
tour guide to any members of the tour.
   A schedule of the rates and charges proposed by the applicant in the
operation of the business.
   A certificate of general liability insurance in a minimum amount of one
hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) which specifically provides that the
same may not be cancelled without thirty (30) days written notice to the
"city".
(10)   Application fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) payable at the time of
application and annually, on the first of January of each calendar year,
thereafter as a renewal fee.
Sec. 10-160. Handicap accessibility.
All proposed charter routes must follow handicap accessible public rights-of-
way appropriate to tours where walking is utilized by a walking tour or exiting
a tour vehicle.
Sec. 10-161. Permit Approval
Upon receipt of the complete application, the applicant will receive their
permit if they meet the following conditions:
The applicant has not within five (5) years of the date of the application been
convicted of a felony, driving while impaired or any crime of moral turpitude.
The application is complete and sufficient with all necessary documentation.
The applicant meets all of the minimum qualifications for the tour guide
permit.
The applicant is solvent and financially able to furnish adequate service on a
continuing basis and have the necessary insurance required.
The proposed service will be carried out in a reasonably safe manner so as not
to interfere with the health, safety and welfare of pedestrians, motor vehicles
and the general public and the proposed tour will not unreasonably interfere
with the use of the streets, sidewalks, parking lots, alleys, parks and other
   public properties within the "city".
The maximum number of permits have not already been issued and in effect.
The tour, including any vehicle or conveyance, will be compatible with the
history and area of the City where the tour is conducted.
Each tour guide permit granted by the City of Southport shall be valid for a
period of one (1) calendar year and must be renewed annually, by the first day
of January of each calendar year thereafter. Any changes in an application for
renewal will be considered a new application and need to follow Sec. 10-159
guidelines. The City of Southport shall have the authority to set other
conditions to the tour guide permit as deemed necessary in the interest of the
health, welfare and safety of the public.
Sec. 10-162. Prohibited acts.
It shall be unlawful and a violation of this article and a violation of a tour
guide permit for any tour guide or any tour guide permit holder to:
Fail to follow the approved charter route or move in a manner blocking
entrances to stores, homes, public parks, cemeteries or other places of
business or interfere with street traffic.
Fail to follow the lawful commands of a law enforcement officer.
Move on a sidewalk in excess of a column of two (2) persons abreast.
Solicit members of the public verbally while such member of the public is on
any public street, public sidewalk or public property.
   Operate an amplifying device during the course of the tour without specific
written tourism commission approval.
Violate the terms and conditions of the tour guide permit.
Place a sign in a public space to promote the business except as allowed below.
To enter onto private property without the express permission of the owner of
said property.
Conduct a tour within the confines of a cemetery after dark pursuant to Sec. 5-
13 guidelines.
A temporary A-Frame sign may be placed four (4) hours before the operating
hours of the tour, within one (1) block of the starting location of the tour
and must be removed at the end of the business day of the permit holder.
Sec. 10-163. Revocation.
The City of Southport Code Enforcement Officer may revoke a tour guide permit
after notice to the permit holder thereof upon finding any of the following:
A violation of the terms and conditions of this ordinance or the conditions of
the tour guide permit.
Upon determining that false information was given on the application for a tour
guide permit.
The cancellation or revocations of the tour guide permit holder's liability
insurance coverage.
The business closing of the holder of a tour guide permit.
Conviction of a felony, driving while impaired or crimes involving the moral
turpitude by a tour guide or permit holder.
Three (3) violations in one year will result in the loss of a permit for the
remainder of the year, as well as, the following calendar year.
Any tour guide permit holder who has received a revocation order under Sec. 10-
163 may appeal the order to the Board of Aldermen by giving notice of appeal in
writing to the Code Enforcement Officer and to the City Clerk within ten (10)
days following issuance of the order. In the absence of an appeal, the order of
the Code Enforcement Officer shall be final. The Board shall hear an appeal
within a reasonable time and may affirm, modify and affirm, or revoke the
order.
Sec. 10-164. Transfer.
The tour guide permit issued pursuant to this article shall not be transferred
by the permit holder to any other persons.
Sec. 10-165. Violations.
In addition to revocation of a tour guide permit, the violation of the
provisions of any City of Southport Ordinance shall subject the offender to a
civil penalty to be collected by the City of Southport in the nature of a debt.
Each day a continuing violation occurs, shall be deemed a separate violation.
Sec. 10-166. Exemptions.
Exempt from this article are walking and vehicle tours conducted by non-profit
organizations such as the Southport Historical Society, The North Carolina
Maritime Museum at Southport and schools. The City of Southport shall have the
authority to determine such groups. Exempt, non-profit organizations are
subject, however, to the provisions of this article in all matters related to
health and safety, right-of-way and public access concerns.
This the 13th day of December 2018.         City of Southport
                     /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
AGENDA
3.   The Oaks at Highland Park Subdivision Phase 2 Final Plat
   City Planner Lloyd explained that Southport Development Associates are
requesting Final Plat approval for Phase 2 of Highland Park, a subdivision
located off Stuart Avenue on Highland Park Avenue. He noted that the
preliminary plat was approved in July, 2016, Phase 2 will consist of 6 lots,
the developer has completed the required wastewater and water infrastructure
and needs to complete road infrastructure or provide a bond/letter of credit
for the cost of the infrastructure. He stated that staff recommends the Board
approve the Final Plat with the condition that the developer either finishes
the road infrastructure or provides a performance guarantee equal to 125% the
construction cost of the road infrastructure prior to staff signing off on the
plat.
   Alderman Sharkey asked about a report submitted by Norris & Tunstall
regarding the use of individual sewer pump stations on some lots and if there
was a potential for contamination during a failure. Public Works Director David
Fox stated that individual grinder pumps are currently used in other areas of
the city, have a holding capacity for 48 hours and in the event of a failure
could impact the household using the pumps. He added that individual property
owners are responsible for maintaining the pumps.
   Alderman Powell suggested adopting a policy requiring homeowners using
individual grinder pumps to have a backup generator in the event that
electricity is lost.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Spencer to approve The Oaks at
Highland Park Subdivision, Phase II Final Plat contingent on submittal of a
performance guarantee bond of 125% prior to staff signing plat for recordation.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
4.   Presentation; Bob Surridge, Southport Historical Society
   Mr. Bob Surridge, Southport Historical Society, presented a pamphlet
explaining the mobile app PocketSights providing self-guided tours of
Southport. He stated that four (4) tours are currently available; Historic
Southport (24 locations in Southport), Historic Monuments and Markers Tour,
Safe Haven Movie Tour and Cape Fear River Circle Tour. He indicated that an
African American Tour and a Tour of the Fort Johnston Museum are planned to be
added. He brought up the app on his cell phone for those in attendance to hear.
5.   UDO Update, Phase 2 Services Agreement
   Planner Lloyd explained that the Planning Board and staff are requesting the
Board of Aldermen approve the services agreement with the Cape Fear Council of
Government to complete Phase 2 of the Unified Development Ordinance (UDO)
update.
   Mr. Wes MacLeod, Cape Fear Council of Governments (CFCOG), stated that the
Planning Board has been working diligently on the overhaul of the CAMA Core
Land Use Plan and have reviewed 16 of the current 27 articles of the UDO. He
stated he hopes the revised UDO will be a total of seven (7) articles,
straightforward and easier to administer. Responding to a query by Alderman
Sharkey, Mr. MacLeod stated he anticipates having a draft ready within 12
months and submittal to the Board of Aldermen within 12 to 14 months.
   Alderman Pukenas motioned, second by Alderman Powell to approve the UDO
Update Phase 2 Services Agreement. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
6.   Public Hearing; Zoning Map Amendment, Parcel ID 22100028 from R-20 to PUD
   (RZ 18-1010-01)
   City Planner Lloyd explained that applicant Vanguard Farms, LLC is
requesting rezoning of a 68 acre tract off Robert Ruark Drive for development
as a Planned Unit Development (PUD). He pointed out that the tract is
surrounded by similar uses, would be annexed prior to development, the Planning
Board found that the proposed zoning amendment is consistent with the overall
goals, objectives, and policies of the CAMA Core Land Use Plan and recommends
approval.
   Responding to a query from Alderman Powell, City Planner Lloyd stated that
any development on the 68 acre tract would be required to adhere to the
Southport Stormwater Ordinance which is more stringent that State requirements.
   Responding to a question from Alderman Spencer, City Planner Lloyd stated
that a traffic impact study would be required for any development of the tract
and multiple entrances would be worked out during developmental planning.
   Alderman Tucker asked for a general range of uses in the requested PUD
zoning. Planner Lloyd stated that single family residences, duplexes, condos
and some light commercial uses are permitted in PUD zoning.
   Alderman Sharkey motioned, second by Alderman Powell to go into Public
Hearing. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Mr. Frank Popelars, 1023 Captain Adkins Drive, stated his opinion that
access from Robert Ruark Drive to any development of the 68 acres would
endanger current residents. He requested consideration of a condition of
development requiring access only through NC 211 for construction workers and
equipment.
   Mr. Ted Brewer, 109 Live Oak Turn spoke in opposition to the rezoning
request.
   Mrs. Tedi Fairley, 105 S. Captain Adkins Drive, presented a picture of
potential development of the 68 acre tract with the current zoning and the
requested zoning. She stated her contention that PUD developments leaves no
trees standing and the developer is unconcerned about retaining Live Oak trees.
   Ms. Gail Ballard, Robert Ruark Drive resident, spoke about her recent and
past experiences with water draining from Bonnet Way onto her property and into
her home.
   Mr. Michael Rice, 2012 Bonner Bussells, gave Board members a handout
depicting the 68 acre tract and surrounding properties zoned R-20. He contended
that the requested zoning is not consistent with the CAMA Core Land Use Plan.
   Mr. Landon Weaver, representative of the developer, Bill Clark Homes, stated
the business is family owned, have been building in North Carolina for over 40
years, have built in Brunswick County for three decades, and have a quality
product and intend to have rear entry and front loading home models.
   Mr. Mike Nichols, Paramount Engineering, pointed out that the request is not
spot zoning, it is compatible with adjacent land uses, consideration of
development plans was premature and all conditions of the project, i.e. traffic
and driveway permits, would be addressed.
   An unidentified citizen questioned the developer's integrity.
   Mr. John McMath, 1005 Bonner Bussells Drive, spoke in opposition to the
zoning request and stated his concerns about two access points on Robert Ruark
Drive to the 68 acre tract.
   Ms. Judy MacMurdo, 1019 Captain Adkins Drive, spoke in opposition to the
rezoning and commented on the current traffic in the area.
   Ms. Pam Hayes, 1004 Bonner Bussells Drive, expressed concerns about density
of any proposed development.
   Mr. Dwight Flanagan, 1026 Captain Adkins Drive, talked about storm water
runoff and the high water table in Smithville Woods.
   Alderman Tucker motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to close the Public
Hearing. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
7.   Consideration of Zoning Map Amendment
   Alderman Sharkey motioned, second by Alderman Tucker that the Southport
Board of Aldermen adopt the ordinance approving the rezoning in accordance with
the recommendation of the Planning Board and that the Board find the rezoning
to be consistent with the CAMA Core Land Use Plan and reasonable and in the
public interest as set forth in the exhibit to the ordinance prepared by and
submitted by staff.
   Aye:   Aldermen Sharkey, Tucker, Pukenas, Powell, Mosteller
   Nay:   Alderman Spencer
   Motion carried 5-1
8.   Resolution; Alley Abandonment
   City Planner Lloyd explained that the resolution to call for a Public
Hearing regarding abandonment of an alley along W. 11th Street was provided for
Board approval per G. S. 160A-299
   Alderman Pukenas motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to approve the
Resolution calling for a public hearing to be held at 6:00 p.m., January 10,
2019. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
RESOLUTION TO CLOSE PUBLIC ALLEY
   THAT WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport proposes to
permanently close the public alley in the City of Southport which lies west of
and parallel to Caswell Avenue and just north of W. Eleventh Street, said alley
being more particularly described as follows:
   BEING that 10 foot wide alley running from the northern line of W. Eleventh
Street in a northerly direction to its terminus in Block 15 of the Smith &
Weeks Addition as shown on a plat of the Smith & Weeks Addition to the City of
Southport recorded in Book II at Page 35 of the Brunswick County Registry; and
WHEREAS, prior to the closing of said alley, it is necessary for the Board of
Aldermen to hear all interested persons on the question of whether or not the
closing would be detrimental to the public interest, or the property rights of
any individual;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport pursuant to G. S. 160A-299 as follows:
   1.   That the City of Southport intends to permanently close that certain
public alley as described above.
   2.   That a public hearing on said closing shall be held at 6:00 pm on
January 10, 2019, at the Southport Community Building, 223 E. Bay Street,
Southport, N. C.
   3.   That a copy of this resolution shall be published once a week for four
(4) successive weeks prior to the hearing, a copy hereof shall be sent by
registered or certified mail to all owners of property adjoining the public
alley as shown on the county tax records, and a notice of the closing and
public hearing shall be prominently posted in at least two (2) places along
said alley.
   This the 13th day of December, 2018.         CITY OF SOUTHPORT
                           BY:   /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk   
9.   Contract: Hickman Utilities, Inc. Repair to Sewer and Storm Drain
Infrastructure
   Referencing an agreement and exhibits provided in the meeting agenda packet,
City Manager Oakley explained that staff is requesting approval of a contract
with Hickman Utilities, Inc. for repair of sewer and storm drain infrastructure
damaged during Hurricane Florence. He stated that approval of contract(s) for
paving, after the infrastructure repair, would be addressed at a later date.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Sharkey to approve the contract
with Hickman Utilities, Inc. to repair sewer and storm drain infrastructure.
Unanimous vote; motion carried. (Contract on file in the Clerk's office)
10.   Proposal & Resolution: Criser Troutman Tanner (CTT) Engineering Services
for Design    and Construction Administration of the Southport City Dock &
Resolution
   City Manager Oakley stated that the proposal for replacement of the existing
Southport City "L" shaped dock from CTT was a start to finish proposal which
included permitting and construction administration. He stated that three
conceptual design options will be presented to the Board for evaluation and
determination of the final design.
   City Manager Oakley explained that due to time constraints and the
architect's fee being under $50,000, the city can exempt this project from the
G. S. 143-64.31 requirements to obtain requests for qualifications.
Additionally, he announced that Southport had been awarded a $150,000 grant for
the project from The Golden LEAF Foundation.
   Alderman Spencer motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to adopt the
Resolution Exempting City from the Qualifications-Based Selection Process and
to retain Criser Troutman Tanner Engineering Services. Unanimous vote; motion
carried. (Contract on file in the Clerk's Office).
RESOLUTION OF CITY OF SOUTHPORT BOARD OF ALDERMEN EXEMPTING CITY FROM THE
QUALIFICATIONS–BASED SELECTION PROCESS
   WHEREAS, G. S. 143-64.31 requires the initial selection of firms to perform
architectural, engineering, surveying and construction management at risk
services to be made without regard to fee; and
   WHEREAS, the City proposes to enter into a contract for professional
architectural services in connection with the Criser, Troutman, Tanner; and
   WHEREAS, Criser, Troutman, Tanner Consulting Engineers is familiar with the
requirements of City and has recently performed worked on proposed project);
and
   WHEREAS, Criser, Troutman, Tanner Consulting Engineers has proposed to
perform this work for a fair and reasonable rate;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport that:
1.   The above-described project is hereby made exempt from the provisions of
G. S. 143-64.31 for the reasons stated in this resolution.
2.   This resolution is effective this 13th day of December, 2018.
                           City of Southport
                           BY: /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
11.   Appointments to Board of Adjustment
   Alderman Pukenas pointed out that there are four (4) positions open on the
Board of Adjustment. He motioned, second by Alderman Spencer to reappoint Mr.
Frank Popelars, Mr. Tom Lombardi, Ms. Jennifer Fontaine and appoint Mr. Matt
Green to the Board of Adjustment.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
12.   Appointment(s) to Planning Board
   Alderman Mosteller motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to reappoint Ms.
Tish Hatem and appoint Mr. John Allen to a full city position on the Planning
Board. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Alderman Spencer motioned, second by Alderman Sharkey to appoint Mr. Richard
Sloan to the alternate city position on the Planning Board. Unanimous vote;
motion carried.
13.   Christmas Bonus
   Alderman Tucker motioned, second by Alderman Spencer to give full-time
employees a $300 bonus and part-time employees a $200 bonus. Unanimous vote;
motion carried.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
- None
PROJECT REPORT
   City Manager Oakley reported that a meeting would be held after the holidays
with engineers regarding the waterfront stabilization project.
   City Manager Oakley reported that he would meet with the Police Chief and
Public Works Director to address concerns raised about traffic in the
Turtlewood subdivision.
   City Manager Oakley distributed the Southport Police Department Internal
Audit Report prepared by U.S. ISS Agency, LLC to Board members. He pointed out
that countless hours were spent interviewing current and past employees,
reviewing documents and policies, and identifying issues of importance. City
Manager Oakley stated that the investigation revealed management, leadership,
policy and operational issues of concern and recommendations were made to
address the issues. City Manager Oakley emphasized that Police Chief Coring is
addressing the issues, improving community policing, after hours business
checks are being performed as are welfare checks. City Manager Oakley indicated
that a strategic policy plan is recommended and a staffing needs study.
   Chief Coring reported that since he assumed the role of Police Chief, the
main goal was to get officers out on the roads. He stated he is looking at
staffing, has advertised vacancies and to date 22 applications have been
received. He pointed out that there are critical issues with proper evidence
retention and management operational issues that he is addressing. He reported
that the department would be moving to the second floor of City Hall, 1029 N.
Howe Street, while maintaining a presence downtown in the Fire Department
Substation on E. Nash Street. Noting that the department is operating with a
skeleton crew, Chief Coring asked citizens to be patient with them. He added
that he is answering calls, networking with the public, doing an inventory of
equipment and overseeing the annual Shop With a Cop Christmas program.
   Chief Coring announced that Mr. Tony Burke had been hired and he brings many
years of experience to the department.
   Deputy Fire Chief Johnston explained an opportunity for the Fire Department
to replace three (3) 10 year old heart monitors per a Brunswick County contract
at 0% financing which would save approximately $9,000 on the purchase.
   Alderman Pukenas motioned, second by Alderman Powell to approve the purchase
contract for heart monitors for the Fire Department Rescue Division. Unanimous
vote; motion carried.    
STAFF REPORTS – provided in Agenda packet
BOARD COMMENTS
   Alderman Spencer commended city staff for a good year.
   Alderman Sharkey suggested scheduling a workshop to review the response,
behavior, actions, etc. of Hurricane Florence.
   Alderman Sharkey recommended hosting a presentation to help educate the
citizens on the benefits of Load Management.
   Alderman Tucker thanked the Board for the opportunity to serve.   
   All Aldermen expressed wishes for a safe and happy holiday.   
ADJOURN
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Sharkey to adjourn the meeting.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
 
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
2019
JANUARY 10, 2019
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING JANUARY 10, 2019
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
PRESENT:    Mayor J.V. Dove
      Aldermen Karen Mosteller, Lora Sharkey, Jim Powell,
      Marc Spencer, Rick Pukenas
ABSENT:    Alderman Tucker
STAFF PRESENT:    Bruce Oakley, City Manager
         Michele Windham, City Clerk
         Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
         Police Chief, Todd Coring
         Fire Chief, Charles Drew
         David Fox, Public Works Director
         Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
         Randy Jones, Tourism Director
         B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
         Thomas Lloyd, Planner
         Kate Marshall, Animal Protective Services/Code Enforcement Officer
A) Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Dove called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B) Invocation
Alderman Sharkey welcomed everyone and Ms. Lisa Parker, Lay Minister; Mt.
Carmel AME Church, gave the invocation.
C) Pledge of Allegiance
Alderman Sharkey led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D) Public Comment
Mr. Steve Simon, 6211 Pebble Shore expressed appreciation to the Board for
moving ahead on the City Dock rebuild project. He pointed out that the finger
piers have been maintained by slip owners. He stated his hope that the current
slip owners be a part of the design decision, fixed vs. floating dock. He
speculated that parking would be an issue if a kayak launch was included in the
design and he stated it was difficult to find available boat slips in the area.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Dove stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
E) Approval of Agenda
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to approve the agenda.
Unanimous vote; motion carried
F) Announcements
Mayor Dove announced that Mayor’s Day would be held Friday, January 18, 4:00 –
5:30 p.m. at the Fire Department Substation, 111 E. Nash Street.
Mayor Dove expressed condolences to the family of Mr. Richard Frink.
Mayor Dove appointed Alderman Spencer as Board liaison to the 4th of July
Committee.
Mayor Dove appointed Alderman Tucker as Board liaison to the Wastewater
Treatment Plant project and Aldermen Pukenas and Sharkey as alternate liaisons
to the project.
Alderman Pukenas motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to appoint Police Chief
Coring as the Southport ABC Officer. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Alderman Mosteller announced that the This Is Our Town Clean Up would be held
Saturday, February 2, 9:00 – 12:00. She pointed out that over 30 people
participated in the January clean up.
Alderman Spencer announced that he would be attending the Southport Historical
membership meetings throughout the year.
Alderman Spencer announced that the Planning Board would be holding a workshop
Monday, January 14th to continue the update of the Unified Development
Ordinance (UDO).
Alderman Pukenas announced that February is Black History Month and events
would be listed on the City’s website.
G) Special Recognition
Mayor Dove read and presented a Resolution Honoring Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.
Celebration to Ms. Lisa Parker.
CITY OF SOUTHPORT
RESOLUTION
HONORING the 25th ANNIVERSARY OF THE
DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING JR. CELEBRATION
WHEREAS, the Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Celebration Committee was formed and
entrusted with the responsibility to plan a community wide celebration to
appropriately honor this great leader; and
WHEREAS, Dr. Martin Luther King Celebration Committee has selected the dates of
Sunday January 20 and Monday January 21, 2019 to hold this celebration with
events scheduled to include youth programs, a march and a roundtable breakfast,
and
WHEREAS, the Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Celebration has established a mission
statement in which its most important goal is to bring people of the community
together for the purpose of promoting good will and harmony for the betterment
of the entire community; and
WHEREAS, it is extremely important that the great works and deeds of Dr. Martin
Luther King, Jr. be duly remembered, honored and recognized in this most
fitting and proper way.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Mayor and Board of Aldermen of
Southport recognizes January 20-21, 2019 as the official dates of the 25th
Anniversary Celebration by the Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Celebration Committee
and encourage all citizens to participate in the activities scheduled.
Adopted the 10th day of January 2019.
                                       /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
(Attest) /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
H) Swearing in Mayor Pro Tem
Alderman Rick Pukenas was sworn in as Mayor Pro Tem by Mayor Dove.
CONSENT AGENDA
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to approve the Consent
Agenda. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
1. Approval of Minutes for December 13, 2018 Regular Meeting – approved
2. The Golden LEAF Foundation Grantee Acknowledgment and agreement - approved
(Agreement on file in the Clerk’s office)
AGENDA
3. Public Hearing; 11th Street Alley Closure
City Planner Lloyd explained that staff finds no issues with closure of a 93
ft. portion of an 11th street public alley as access to adjoining property
owners would still exist at the southern portion of the alley. He pointed out
that a resolution declaring the Board’s intent to close the alley, calling for
a public hearing and advertising for four successive weeks prior to the hearing
had been adopted. He advised the Board that they may adopt an order closing the
alley if they are satisfied that closing the alley is not contrary to the
public interest, and that no individual owning property in the vicinity of the
alley or in the subdivision in which it is located would thereby be deprived of
reasonable means of ingress and egress to their property.
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Sharkey to go into Public Hearing.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
No one from the public spoke.
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to close Public Hearing.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
4. Consideration of 11th Street Alley Closure
Alderman Pukenas motioned, second by Alderman Powell to approve the Order to
close a 93’ portion of an 11th Street alley as described in the Order.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA
ORDER
BRUNSWICK COUNTY
   THAT WHEREAS, G. S. 160A-299 requires that when a city proposes to
permanently close any street or public alley that the Board of Aldermen first
adopt a resolution declaring its intent to close said street or alley and
calling for a public hearing on the question; and
   WHEREAS, G. S. 160A-299 further requires that the resolution to close the
street or alley be published once a week for four successive weeks prior to the
date of said hearing, that a copy thereof be sent by registered or certified
mail to all owners of property adjoining the portion of the street or alley to
be closed as shown on the county tax records, and that notice of the closing
and public hearing be prominently posted in at least two places along the
street or alley to be closed; and
   WHEREAS, on December 13, 2018, the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport passed a resolution proposing to close the following described public
alley, and also calling for a public hearing on said question:
   Being that 10 foot wide alley running from the northern line of W. Eleventh
Street
   in a northerly direction to its terminus in Block 15 of the Smith & Weeks
Addition
   as shown on a plat of the Smith & Weeks Addition to the City of Southport
recorded
   in Book II at Page 35 of the Brunswick County Registry; and
   WHEREAS, the City of Southport has complied with all requirements of G. S.
160A-299, including the holding of the public hearing and the giving of all
required notice; and
   WHEREAS, no portion of the street or alley to be closed is under the
authority or control of the Board of Transportation; and
   WHEREAS, adjoining property owners and other persons were heard on the
question of whether or not the closing would be detrimental to the public
interest or the property rights of any individual; and
   WHEREAS, it appears to the satisfaction of the Board of Aldermen after the
hearing that the closing of the northernmost 93 foot portion of the public
alley described above is not contrary to the public interest and that no
individual owning property in the vicinity of this portion of said alley or in
the subdivision in which it is located would be deprived of reasonable means of
ingress and egress to their property and that said portion of said alley
described above should be closed;
   NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED pursuant to G. S. 160A-299 as follows:
   1. That the following described public alley in the City of Southport is
hereby closed:
   Being the northernmost 93 foot portion of that 10 foot wide alley running
from the northern line of W. Eleventh Street in a northerly direction to its
terminus in Block 15 of the Smith & Weeks Addition as shown on a plat of the
Smith & Weeks Addition to the City of Southport recorded in Book II at Page 35
of the Brunswick County Registry.
   2. That the City of Southport hereby reserves and retains all right, title
and interest in all utility improvements and easements, if any, located within
said alley as described above.
This the 10th day of January, 2019                      CITY OF SOUTHPORT
                                 BY: /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
5. Major Subdivision Preliminary Plat; 11th Street Subdivision
Planner Lloyd explained that the proposed subdivision would be the first
development using the Residential Cluster Development standards found in
Article 15 of the UDO which provides an alternative development option that
promotes more efficient use of land, better preserves the natural character of
the site, provides desirable and useable open space and tree cover, preserves
environmentally sensitive areas and provides design flexibility relating to
location of units to unique site conditions. He pointed out that Cluster
Subdivisions are a Conditional Use. He indicated that the Board of Adjustment
had approved the Conditional Use at a January 7th meeting. Planner Lloyd added
that the Planning Board reviewed the preliminary plat and found that the
subdivision met the standards of preliminary plat. He noted that an additional
access point on 9th Street is being pursued and an additional access onto 11th
Street is a second option if the 9th Street access does not materialize.
Alderman Sharkey acknowledged the hard work performed by the Planning Board and
staff addressing how open space would be oriented, storm water and the review
process. She stated concerns regarding another project proposed in the area by
the same developer and the impact the developments would have on 11th Street
traffic and road condition. She suggested requiring the developer to improve
11th Street from the point where it intersects with Caswell Avenue.
City Attorney Isenberg pointed out that the UDO does not require two entrances
for the size of the proposed subdivision. Alderman Powell noted that there has
been a policy requiring two access points since the early 2000’s.
Planner Lloyd pointed out that the threshold requiring a traffic impact study
is 800 trips per day determined by an estimated 10 per day per household which
results in 490 trips per day for the proposed subdivision.
Noting that a 9th Street connection would be beneficial for all residents of
the area, Mr. Perry Davis, Cape Fear Engineering, expressed confidence that the
access would materialize.
Alderman Sharkey asked if 11th Street conditions were adequate for the
development. Public Works Director, David Fox stated that the street was in
good condition to the edge of the woods, the culvert had been replaced, and the
street will be paved in the near future.
Alderman Pukenas motioned, second by Alderman Powell to approve the Preliminary
Plat.
Vote: Ayes: Aldermen Pukenas, Powell, Mosteller, Spencer
Nay: Alderman Sharkey
Motion carried 4-1
COMMITTEE REPORTS – None
PROJECT REPORT
City Manager Oakley reported that the annual Board Retreat would be held
Saturday, February 2, beginning at 9:00 a.m. in the Fire Department EOC, 1011
N. Howe Street, 2nd floor.
City Manager Oakley reported that an offer to purchase the former waste water
treatment plant had been received from Southport Marina. He stated that the
offer was $600,000, for the as is condition with no cleanup required by the
city. He indicated that the Marina’s plans for the property include dry storage
and parking. He pointed out that if the Board was interested in the offer, the
Board would be required to pass a resolution and provide a period of 10 days
for upset bids. Alderman Powell suggested consideration of the offer be
deferred to the February 2 Retreat.
City Manager Oakley reported that design options for the Yacht Basin City Dock
were received by staff and are under review.
City Manager Oakley reported that staff is soliciting designs for Taylor Field.
Parks and Recreation Director Hemphill stated she hopes to have documents ready
for Board review at the February Retreat.
City Manager Oakley reported that storm water and sewer infrastructure repairs
were underway.
City Manager Oakley reported that Coastal Water Watch and Southport Marina are
planning a clean-up of the marsh.
STAFF REPORTS – provided in Agenda packet
BOARD COMMENTS
Alderman Mosteller spoke about right-of-way encroachments and enforcement of
the Ordinance. She expressed her opinion that many citizens are not aware of
the right-of-way regulations and she stressed that enforcement of encroachments
should start with communication.
Alderman Mosteller suggested the City Manager put together recommendations for
a comprehensive storm water plan. Alderman Powell pointed out that the
Stormwater Ordinance is part of the Unified Development Ordinance (UDO) and
will be addressed with the current, on-going update.
Alderman Powell asked staff to provide the Board with a map of Southport
depicting the size of street right-of-ways.
Alderman Sharkey stated that she would be attending a FEMA meeting regarding
funding sources for mitigation measures, January 17, 6:00 – 8:00 p.m. in
Leland.
Noting that the Board had been tasked by the Mayor to consider a way to honor
Ed Harper, Alderman Spencer motioned, second by Alderman Sharkey to name
Waterfront Park the, Edward T. Harper Waterfront Park.
VOTE: Aye:    Aldermen Spencer, Sharkey, Powell
Abstain:    Aldermen Pukenas, Mosteller
(abstentions count as Aye)
Unanimous vote; motion carried
Alderman Spencer proposed having a fund raiser to raise money to repair the
restrooms in the City Gym. He suggested leasing out sign space on the interior
walls of the gymnasium. He stated he would like to extend a discount to those
who currently have signs on the wall.
Alderman Spencer stated he had been approached by citizens with hearing
impairments who wanted to attend Board meetings. He indicated he had spoken
with the Public Works Director who would research accessories for the sound
system.
RECESS
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to recess the meeting to
February 2, 9:00 a.m. at the Fire Department Emergency Operations Center (EOC),
1011 N. Howe Street.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
                                 /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
FEBRUARY 2, 2019
RECESSED SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN   RECESSED SESSION MINUTES
FIRE HEADQUARTERS   FEBRUARY 2, 2019
1011 N. HOWE STREET SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor J.V. Dove
         Aldermen Rick Pukenas, Lora Sharkey, Karen Mosteller, Jim Powell,
Robert Tucker, Marc Spencer
STAFF PRESENT:   Bruce Oakley, City Manager
         Michele Windham, City Clerk
         Tanya Shannon, Deputy City Clerk
         Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
         Charles Drew, Fire Chief
         Todd Coring, Police Chief
         David Fox, Public Works Director
         Randy Jones, Tourism Director
         B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
         Thomas Lloyd, Planner
Call to Order - 9:00 a.m.
   Mayor Dove called the January 10, 2019 meeting back to order.
Invocation
   Alderman Pukenas welcomed everyone and Chief Drew gave the invocation.
……………………………………………………….
   Mayor Dove read a list of Board and staff 2018/to date accomplishments and
challenges prepared by Mayor Pro Tem Pukenas:
   ∙   Annual Retreat in February and the hope for a good future for Southport
   ∙   July Police Department Incident - Setback
   ∙   September Hurricane Florence - Setback
   ∙   Waterfront Stabilization Project – received funding for studies to
identify the areas of greatest concern and the type of system to be used to
mitigate the erosion. Meeting, to choose system to be used set for week of
February 4 and to begin the permitting process. Should see construction
beginnig in 2020 with completion within one year. No Southport tax dollars
spend on the project.
   ∙   Have begun to update Unified Development Ordinance (UDO) in coordination
with the Cape Fear Council of Government, initial portion completed
   ∙   Grant Writer hired on retainer to pursue grants for the City; has
secured a grant from the Golden Leaf Foundation to help with the City Dock
project. Actively pursuing other grants for infrastructure and other needs
within the city
   ∙   Through public meetings and delays, came to realize that the City Dock
has to be modified. Revised plans included in agenda packet for consideration
   ∙   Through a generous donation of land by the Harper Family, the “Taylor
Field” project is underway and the appraised value of the property has allowed
for a part(f) grant
   ∙   Major changes within the Police Department; a change of command
personnel, Alderman Todd Coring stepped down to become Police Chief, hiring of
personnel proceeding, adopting new policies and procedures, relocation to the
second floor of City Hall
   ∙   The Fire Department merged the Yaupon and Caswell Beach fire departments
into the Southport department
   ∙   Underground electric project completed on Lord Street
   ∙   Underground services have begun on Fodale Avenue from the substation to
W. Moore Street
   ∙   Fort Johnston’s brick project a tremendous success and Fort Johnston won
a Governor’s Award for volunteerism
   ∙   Adirondack chairs, made by a volunteer and money procured through a fund
raiser, have been placed on the Garrison lawn for all to enjoy
   ∙   New vehicles budget savings have been realized by re-using existing
vehicles; approximately $70,000 saved
   ∙   Worked as a team in the midst of Hurricane Florence
   Mayor Dove reminded the Board that they are authorized to make decisions
that will affect the city and citizens and those decisions are going to involve
appropriations for economic development, to increase the population, to
increase development and employment of all and to benefit the public at large
per G.S. 158(7.1)
   Alderman Mosteller motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to move the first
item on the agenda to the next regularly scheduled Aldermen’s meeting after
having an open house so the public can see the W. West Street property and to
hold a public meeting to ask questions and get answers.
Discussion
   Alderman Mosteller stated her reason for making the motion; that before
action is taken on the sale of the W. West Street property, the public must
have access to all the information and the opportunity to see the 2-1/2 acres
of City owned land on Cottage Creek bordering Indigo Plantation Marsh Reserve,
that has not been open to the public and so citizens can understand the
potential either way and have an opportunity to ask questions and get answers.
   Alderman Sharkey stated appreciation for more public comment time but did
not think action should be prolonged. She suggested a special meeting in the
upcoming week and she pointed out that information was to be presented during
the current meeting after which comments and questions could be voiced at a
special meeting. She emphasized the need to proceed with a decision and move
forward on other budget considerations.
   Alderman Mosteller agreed with Alderman Sharkey about having a special
meeting but countered with her thoughts that it was disrespectful to be in a
rush, the Board should take questions because there is a diversity of opinions
in the community, the Board should be transparent and the decision needed to be
slowed down.
   Alderman Powell stated that anything the City and Board consider is open to
the public to review at any time. He pointed out that the facility had been
there since 1983 and 30 years of records can be reviewed. He requested the City
Manager explain the current financial situation.
   Alderman Sharkey noted that the offer was made public a month past, the
newspaper had written articles twice, citizens have reached out to her and
other Aldermen expressing their feelings, and citizens have attended the
Mayor’s meeting. She stated that the issue has not been done in the dark or
secretively.
   Alderman Mosteller stated that the 2-1/2 acres of city owned land bordering
the Indigo Plantation Marsh Reserve with public access to water, belongs to the
citizens of Southport. She stated the Board’s decision would affect the future
and she noted that citizens were in attendance when they were not afforded
public comment. She asked that for the sake of transparency to give the
citizens an opportunity to have all the information, to see the property in
question, and to ask questions and get answers. She stated that she struggles
with trying to rush a decision when she has questions as well. She commented
that Board members met with the Marina and got a presentation that she was
unable to see because of her employment responsibilities. She added that she
was not going to be able to make a decision because she is less informed.
   Noting that there were concerns and some lack of understanding the offer,
Alderman Tucker asked the City Manager, for the benefit of those in the
audience, to go over the current offer and conditions so they will understand
everything that has been going on. He shared his experience from years past as
a city employee that staff was directed to get the site cleaned up and ready to
be sold, the property was listed, and no offers were made. He called the site
an eyesore and considered the community fortunate to have all the parks the
city offers.
   Commenting that he has grown up in Southport, Alderman Spencer stated that
the cost of clean- up of the site is unknown and there are no grant monies for
that. He talked about a future one acre park to be dedicated to the City in the
final stage of the Jonas Creek development bordering W. West St. Calling the
offer from the Marina a good plan with provisions, Alderman Spencer emphasized
that public access to the water, greenspace, a clean area for watching sunsets,
picnicking and launching a kayak is to be provided for.
   Alderman Pukenas agreed with Alderman Mosteller stating he would not be able
to support the proposal, it appeared there were no counter offer or
negotiations and he suggested having a meeting, listening to viewpoints, get
the information that all Board members have at the same time.    
   Pointing out that he was out of town and unable to attend a meeting with the
Marina, Alderman Tucker repeated his request to have the City Manager go over
the offer.
   Alderman Mosteller amended her motion, second by Alderman Pukenas; to move
the first item on today’s agenda to the next regularly scheduled Aldermen’s
meeting after having an open house so the public can see the W. West Street
property and to hold a public meeting to ask questions and get answers and the
City Manager to give an overview of what is known about the project at this
point and to not take any action this date.
Vote:   Ayes:   Aldermen Mosteller and Pukenas
   Nays:   Aldermen Sharkey, Powell, Tucker, Spencer
   Motion Failed 4-2
AGENDA
1.   Resolution to Consider Offer of Purchase of the Former Waste Water
Treatment    Plant Property, 901 W. West Street
   City Manager Oakley displayed an aerial picture of the W. West Street site
and explained particulars of the site and the offer:
   ∙   $650,000 purchase price in as is condition
   ∙   If Resolution adopted, there would be a 10 day upset bid period
   ∙   Offer includes:
      1.   10 ft. easement to the City for kayak launch – easement in
perpetuity
      2.   .11 acres of upland for picnic area for public
      3.   Buyer will provide up to 50% for construction of kayak launch
      4.   Stormwater will be caught on site
   ∙   Site was decommissioned in 2011
   ∙   Holding tanks still holding water, chlorine residue and other chemicals
   ∙   Property currently used by City for storage of materials and drying of
solids.
   ∙   130ft. frontage on Cottage Creek; no frontage on Intracoastal Waterway
   ∙   Appraised at $440,000; 1.3 acres useable land
   ∙   Cost of demolition, $365,000
   ∙   If developed as proposed, $20,000 tax revenue not including fire
district and hospital fees
    Alderman Mosteller contended that the appraisal comparisons were 3 – 5
years old, the property was undervalued and the offer was negligible in
relation to the city’s entire budget. She stated her belief that the structures
could be repurposed. Referencing the 2015 – 2020 Parks and Recreation and Open
Space Master Plan, Alderman Mosteller emphasized the goals and objectives:
   1.   Enhancement and Appropriate Operational Maintenance of Existing Parks
Areas and Facilities
   2.   Provision of New and Expanded Active Recreation Opportunities and
Experiences
   3.   Enhancement and Safety of Movement for Pedestrians and Non-Motorized
Vehicles
   4.   Protection, Preservation and Conservation of Open Space and Green Space
   5.   Free, Easy and Open Access to the Waters and Shoreline in and Around
the City of Southport
   Alderman Mosteller pointed out that the Master Plan recommends aggressive
purchase of property for open space, parks and public access to waters and the
CAMA Core Future Land Use Plan depicts the site as Open Space.
   Alderman Powell asked the City Manager to report on the City’s financial
standing. City Manager Oakley stated that the Local Government Commission (LGC)
would like municipalities to maintain a 30% fund balance, the City’s is
currently 12%. He reported that he had met with Representative Iler and Senator
Rabon regarding funding for hurricane repairs and he pointed out that at best
FEMA will reimburse 75%, it could take up to 4 years for reimbursement and
there is no guarantee the City will receive any money. He added that there is
some hurricane relief funding from the State in the form of grants and the City
is pursuing those. City Manager Oakley stressed that it is imperative to
bolster the General Fund before another disaster and he pointed out that
Electric system funds can only be used for electrical projects.
   Alderman Sharkey commented that her job is to look at the big picture and
she stated her opinion that a return on any monies invested by the City on the
site would not be lucrative. She noted that there are other properties in the
city that could be pursued for parks. She stated that acceptance of the offer
provides a recreational opportunity.
   Noting that the City is not in a position to borrow money and that there is
a need for financial stability, Alderman Spencer expressed his views about the
offer. He stated that he does not take the decision to sell lightly and he
remarked that beyond the initial sale proceeds, the buyer will be boosting the
local economy by providing jobs and boat owners will be spending money on
services throughout the community. He agreed with Alderman Sharkey that there
are other properties in the city for potential parks.
   Alderman Sharkey motioned, second by Alderman Powell to adopt the Resolution
Authorizing Negotiated Offer and Upset Bid Process.
Discussion
   Alderman Mosteller commented that the Planning Board and Parks & Recreation
Advisory Board have recommended keeping the site, the property will continue to
appreciate in value and the $650,000 offered for the property is negligible
when considering the entire city budget.
   Vote
   Aye:   Aldermen Sharkey, Powell, Tucker
   Nay:   Aldermen Mosteller, Pukenas, Spencer
   Aye:   Mayor Dove
   Motion carried 4-3
RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING NEGOTIATED OFFER AND UPSET BID PROCESS
   WHEREAS, the City of Southport owns certain real property adjacent to West
West Street in the City of Southport described as follows:
      Parcel of approximately 2.5 acres bounded by Cottage Creek on the West,
property of Admiral Holdings, LLC, and W. West Street on the North, and
property of Southport Marina, Inc. on the South and East. The property was
formerly used as the City of Southport’s Wastewater Treatment Plant and is
identified at Tax Parcel 237LF021;
   and
   WHEREAS, N. C. G. S. 160A-269 permits the City to sell real property by
upset bid, after receipt of an offer for the property; and
   WHEREAS, the City has received an offer to purchase the above-described
property at the price of $ $650,000 from Southport Marina, Inc.; and
   WHEREAS, Southport Marina, Inc. has paid the required five percent (5%)
deposit on its offer;
   NOW, THEREFORE, the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport resolves
that:
   1. The Board of Aldermen authorizes the sale of the property described above
through the upset bid procedure of N. C. G. S. 160A-269.
   2. The City Clerk shall cause a notice of the proposed sale to be published.
The notice shall describe the property and the amount of the offer, and shall
state the terms under which the offer may be upset.
   3. Persons wishing to upset the offer that has been received shall submit a
sealed bid with their offer to the office of the City Clerk within 10 days
after the notice of sale is published. At the conclusion of the 10-day period,
the City Clerk shall open the bids, if any, and the highest such bid will
become the new offer. If there is more than one bid in the highest amount, the
first such bid received will become the new offer.
   4. If a qualifying higher bid is received, the City clerk shall cause a new
notice of upset bid to be published, and shall continue to do so until a 10-day
period has passed without any qualifying upset bid having been received. At
that time, the amount of the final high bid shall be reported to the Board of
Aldermen.
   5. A qualifying higher bid is one that raises the existing offer by not less
than ten percent 10% of the first $ 1000.00 of that offer and five (5%) of the
remainder of that offer.
   6. A qualifying higher bid must also be accompanied by a deposit in the
amount of five percent (5%) of the bid; the deposit may be made in cash,
cashier’s check or certified check. The City will return the deposit on any bid
not accepted, and will return the deposit on an offer subject to upset if a
qualifying higher bid is received. The City will return or credit the deposit
of the final high bidder at closing.
   7. The terms of the final sale are that the Board of Aldermen must approve
the final high offer before the sale is closed, which it will do within 30 days
after the final upset bid period has passed, and the buyer must pay cash at the
time of closing.
   8. The City reserves the right to withdraw the property from sale at any
time before the final high bid is accepted and the right to reject at any time
all bids.
    Adopted February 2, 2019            City of Southport
                        
                        J. V. Dove, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
2.   City Dock Options
   Referencing the existing conditions and a conceptual design drawing provided
by Criser Troutman Tanner, City Manager Oakley reported that the CAMA and Corps
of Engineers regulatory approvals of a final design are still uncertain. He
stated he is trying to schedule a scoping meeting.
   Responding to queries by Mayor Dove, Aldermen Spencer and Pukenas, City
Manager Oakley estimated that obtaining 15 boat slips would be very optimistic,
replacing the dock as originally built is not possible, and the FEMA repair
reimbursement and Golden Leaf grant funding could be modified. He stated the
best option may be a fixed to floating dock design.
3.   Workshop Facilitated by Chris May, Cape Fear Council of Governments
(CFCOG)
Prioritization of Issues Exercise
   Chris May, Executive Director, Cape Fear Council of Governments, guided the
Board through an exercise creating a bucket list of issues and projects for
consideration. He then guided them through a voting process for prioritizing
the items.
                  Bucket List
   Waterfront Stabilization               Develop Part(F) Plan for Taylor Field
   Better Small Boat Harbor               Inventory & Update Building/
   Comprehensive Plan, All City Functions         Facilities Plan   
   Create Media Policy and Designate Public Information Officer
   Establish City Fuel Facility               Dog Park
   Update Storm Water Program               Clean Creeks & Waterways
   Take Look at Traffic Calming Devices         (Easements?)
   Review Wastewater Contract               Move Forward to Implement   
   Long Range Capital Budget Tied to Strategic Plan      Bike Pedestrian Plan &
   Right-of-Way Enforcement               Pedestrian Way by Yacht Basin    
   Strengthen Parks & Recreation Department         Street Maintenance/Repair
   Begin Process to Enlarge the Community Building      Pothole Schedule Update
   Underground Utilities (Power)            Short Term Rentals   
   Revamp Performance Evaluation to Ensure Excellence
      And Dedication Recognized. Look at Benefits
      Enhancements for Employees
   City Manager to Seek Continuous Improvement & Efficiency in Operation
   Take Stronger Look at Community Appearance
   Golf Cart Safety & Enforcement Awareness
   Transportation Plan Review & Enforcement
   Limit Heavy Trucks from Residential Areas
   School Traffic Congestion
   Load Management Awareness
   
   The Board discussed the listing and determined that the following are
already being addressed and/or projects are underway:
   ∙   Waterfront Stabilization
   ∙   Better Small Boat Harbor
   ∙   Develop Part(F) Plan for Taylor Field
   ∙   City Manager to Seek Continuous Improvement & Efficiency in Operations
   ∙   Load Management Awareness
   ∙   Short Term Rentals
   ∙   Golf Cart Safety & Enforcement Awareness
The Board grouped together the following:
   ∙   Update Storm Water Program & Clean Creeks & Waterways (Easements)
   ∙   Move Forward to Implement Bike Pedestrian Plan, Pedestrian Way by Yacht
Basin & Transportation Plan Review & Enforcement
The Board voted for their top six (6) priorities:
                  TOP 6 PRIORITIES
   ∙   Update Storm Water Program & Clean Creeks & Waterways (Easements)
   ∙   Review Wastewater Contract
   ∙   Long Range Capital Budget Tied to Strategic Plan
   ∙   Comprehensive Plan, All City Functions
   ∙   Begin Process to Enlarge the Community Building
   ∙   Revamp Performance Evaluation to Ensure Excellence and Dedication
Recognized. Look at Benefits Enhancements for Employees
   The City Manager and staff were charged with supporting the work.
   It was noted that the Tourism Director has acted as a Public Information
Officer during events and natural disasters.
4.   Maritime Museum Update; Lori Sanderlin
   Ms. Lori Sanderlin, Manager of the North Carolina Maritime Museum at
Southport addressed the Board. She spoke about her first year as manager, 7
years as an educator, the Friends of the Museum successful fund raisers, and
facility renovations. She emphasized that the museum’s mission is to collect,
preserve, and interpret the material and culture pertinent to the maritime
history of the lower Cape Fear region. Ms. Sanderlin spoke about how the museum
impacts Southport:
   ∙   Tourism – Money spent in the community
   ∙   Higher Quality of Life
   ∙   Enhance Education – provide programming to school systems at no cost
   ∙   Community Collaboration – festival participation; Springfest, 4th of
July, coordinate with Southport Tourism Department
   Ms. Sanderlin talked about the free monthly 3rd Tuesday program, fundraiser
events held by the Friends of the Museum to supplement operating costs not paid
by the State; i.e., electric service fees. She spoke about a ribbon cutting for
the newest exhibit, a 5K run, and Maritime Day expanding into a public program
with hands on coordinated activities with the Yacht Club and Coast Guard
Auxiliary.
   Ms. Sanderlin invited everyone to attend events in October commemorating the
56th anniversary of Hurricane Hazel. She stated that there would be multiple
different programs and interactive exhibits on how to prepare for a hurricane.
   Pointing out that the Cape Fear region was one of the first 10 areas in the
country to receive station of a Coast Guard cutter, Ms. Sanderlin announced
that the museum will be getting a 30 foot model of the Diligence Cutter.
5.   Departmental Reports
      ∙   Finance   (full report on file in the Clerk’s office)
         1.   General Ledger Expenditures vs Budget
         2.   General Ledger Revenues vs Budget
         3.   Fund Budget Analysis
   Pointing out that 58% of the budget year is behind the City; Finance
Director Trexler reported that due to hurricane expenditures of up to $2M, the
General Fund Balance will be lower than 12%. She stated that department heads
have held off making capital purchases due to the hurricane expenditures. She
pointed out that the Fire Department has received monies from the Yaupon/
Caswell Beach Fire Department merger.
   Director Trexler reported that submittal to FEMA for Hurricane Florence
reimbursements continues. She emphasized that FEMA will only reimburse 75% of
the expenditures.
      ∙   Tourism   (Full report on file in the Clerk’s office)
   Tourism Director Jones provided the Board with an overview of the 2018
number of visitors, 34,726; donations, 6,010; special event revenue, $10,243;
and the multitude of events held throughout the year.
   Responding to a question from Alderman Mosteller, Director Jones stated that
Southport is a day trip town and it is difficult to quantify the economics of
tourism. He stated it would require looking at accommodations tax, sales tax,
ferry trips, and Maritime Museum visitors to calculate and it would be very
objective.
   Director Jones provided a vision for 2019 events, Garrison House
improvements, goals and in- house creation of brochures and rack cards.
   ∙   Public Works    (Full report on file in the Clerk’s office)
      Mission Statements
      Water & Sewer:   Operate and maintain the City’s Water & Wastewater
Systems; interact in a courteous manner with customers at all times and be
proactive toward City’s needs; work with developers and other communities on
projects involving extensions of City’s water and wastewater systems.
      Buildings & Grounds:    Ensure safe and sound maintenance and repair of
City facilities; work with all department heads to coordinate repairs and
maintenance.
      Sanitation:   Ensure that solids waste contract for residential garbage,
recyclables and yard debris are adhered to; oversee non-contract cleanup of
large storms; assist Code Enforcement in City’s Fall and Spring community
clean-up.
      Electric:   Work closely with BEMC to ensure that O&M contract
obligations are met;             work with BEMC and developers on system
improvement projects; work             with BEMC on maintenance of City’s
street lighting program; work with BEMC          and coordinate multi-year work
plan of electric distribution system.
      Garage:   Ensure that all City vehicles and equipment are safe and
running in sound condition at all times, advise department heads/employees of
routine maintenance schedules for equipment and vehicles.
   Public Works Director Fox presented an overview of the Water, Sewer,
Buildings & Grounds, Street, Electric, and Garage departments’ 2019/2020 budget
requests. (full report on file in the Clerk’s office) He pointed out that
capital improvement projects for 2018/2019 had not materialized due to
hurricane expenditures and would be carried over to the 2019/2020 budget
request.
   Director Fox talked about equipment requests: Bobcat, trucks, mowers,
portable message board, attitude valves, and funding for sidewalk replacements,
road work, and tree trimming. He pointed out that he would be requesting two
(2) seasonal employees to help in ground maintenance.
   ∙   Planning & Inspections   (Full report on file in the Clerk’s office)
   Building Inspector Strickland reported that a new subdivision is proposed
for 11th Street along with one on the former Daniel’s tract that is in the
process of annexation and rezoning. He stated that a CVS will be the first
tenant in the Southport Crossing development. He indicated that applications
were received for his position and the individual hired would be required to
attain Building Inspector level III certifications. Mr. Strickland stated that
City Planner Lloyd would be attending training in March for Flood Plain
Manager.
   Inspector Strickland and Planner Lloyd spoke about upgrading the permitting
and planning software to streamline services and provide on-line permitting.
The continued review and update of the Unified Development Ordinance was
discussed, purchase of a drone to aid inspections and providing a vehicle for
the new hire. Mr. Strickland noted that the recent increase in fees have
benefited the goal for the department to become self-sufficient.
   ∙   Fire Department   (Full report on file in the Clerk’s office)
   Fire Chief Drew highlighted the changes in the department since 2014 when he
took over as Chief:
   ∙   Had one fire station – now have 4
   ∙   35 members – now 105
   ∙   All volunteers – now combination of volunteer and paid personnel
   ∙   Coverage expanded with Yaupon/Caswell Beach Fire Department merger
   Chief Drew presented a 2018 review of the department’s training, continuing
education, membership, departmental actions: (not a complete listing)
   ∙   88 training classes held at Fire headquarters, nearly 700 classroom
hours
   ∙   NIMS training with city departments and Board of Aldermen
   ∙   27 new volunteers
   ∙   4 full time staff
   ∙   Chaplaincy Program
   ∙   1,565 medical calls
   ∙   3 CPR saves
   ∙   659 fire calls
   ∙   838 fire prevention and inspections
   ∙   Showcased the 9/11 Never Forget Memorial Exhibit
   ∙   Celebrated 125th Year Anniversary of the department
   ∙   Disaster Drill coordinated with OTCC, Dosher Hospital, and 4 mutual aid
departments
   ∙   Hurricane Florence 78 calls, 35 water rescues, nearly 50 medical
emergencies
   ∙   Received $45,000 in donations
   ∙   650 hydrants tested and serviced
   ∙   Mandated physical screenings for all members
   ∙   Held multiple successful fundraisers (to pay for awards banquet & offset
the cost on Cardiac Monitors)
   Chief Drew reviewed the current staffing status, district information,
funding and 2019 goals & projects. He emphasized the long range goals of the
department:
   ∙   24 hour Fulltime coverage
   ∙   Construction of Long Beach Road Substation
   ∙   Ambulance Transport Unit
   ∙   Replacement of Engine 371
   ∙   Paramedic Level with Fulltime EMS Coverage
   ∙   Replacement of Heavy Rescue/Service Unit
   Alderman Tucker pointed out that fire hydrants throughout the city are in
need of painting. Chief Drew agreed and stated that the tops of hydrants are
painted for ISO inspections/ identification and he would pursue establishing a
painting program.
Recess – 1:48 P.M.
   Meeting recessed until Saturday, February 9, 9:00 a.m. upon motion of
Alderman Powell, second by Alderman Tucker.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
 
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
FEBRUARY 9, 2019
RECESSED MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN   RECESSED MEETING MINUTES
FIRE HEADQUARTERS   FEBRUARY 9, 2019
1011 N. HOWE STREET SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:      Aldermen Rick Pukenas, Lora Sharkey, Karen Mosteller,
         Jim Powell, Robert Tucker, Marc Spencer
ABSENT:      Mayor J. V. Dove
STAFF PRESENT:   Bruce Oakley, City Manager
         Michele Windham, City Clerk
         Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
         Todd Coring, Police Chief
         David Fox, Public Works Director
         Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
         B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
         Paul Fisher, NCEMPA Commissioner
                        
Call to Order - 9:00 a.m.
   Mayor Pro Tem Pukenas called the January 10, 2019 meeting back to order.
Invocation
   Mr. Tim Tippet, Brunswick Electric Membership Corp gave the invocation.
   Mayor Pro Tem Pukenas lead the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
AGENDA
1.   Brunswick Electric Membership Corp (BEMC)
   Mr. Tim Tippett and Ms. Deborah Fish gave a presentation focusing on:
      1.   Hurricane Florence Response
      2.   BEMC O&M and ECAS Services
      3.   Status of FY 18/19 Work Plan Projects
      4.   Proposed Two Year Work Plan FY 19/20 and FY 20/21
   Hurricane Florence Response
   Mr. Tippett introduced Ms. Deborah Fish and noted that she has worked with
the City since 2005, she is a professional engineer with a focus on project and
contract management, and she thoroughly understands the contract between the
City of Southport and BEMC.
   Mr. Tippett stated that he has been with BEMC nearly 32 years and this is
his 18th year working with the City.
   Mr. Tippett summarized BEMC’s preparations and responses to Hurricane
Florence:
   ∙   Emergency Operations Meetings Prior to Storm
   ∙   Contract with 123 Outside Crews – over 500 people; the most number of
outside employees used since 1939
   ∙   9/15/18 Mutual Aid Agreement with Duke Energy to allow work on Duke
feeders
      (Duke Feeder Line Failed)
   ∙   9/16/18 BEMC Restores power to Duke Feeders, 3 of 5 Circuits
   Operations & Maintenance
   ∙   Maintain and Operate the electric distribution utility system for the
City
   ∙   Manage, plan, construct, operate, maintain, repair, design, and finance
the utility system
   ∙   Basic O & M Services
      - Supervision and direction
      - Power restoration after outages, including repairs of damage
      - Maintenance of substation equipment
      - Replacement of overhead and padmount transformers (50 kVA or less)
      - Replacement of residential electric meters
      - Maintenance and repair of street lights and security lights
      - Annual infrared scans, inspections of critical equipment
      - Right-of-Way Clearing (5 weeks per year)
   ∙   Non-Basic Services are billed to the Customer or the City
      - New Underground Services
      - Electric System Upgrades (Work Plan Projects)
   A pie chart of 2018 O & M Service Orders was displayed with largest service
order being Security Light Repair followed by Problems Found During Outage
Response, Disconnects, Reconnect, Meter Change, Meeting with Customer.
   Mr. Tippet displayed photos of street lights and he discussed the different
types of fixtures and the locations where they would be used:
 
   Waterfront & Downtown Area Streets
   - Concrete Pole, Bell-Shaped Fixtures, 50 Watt LED Bulb
   - At all intersections and an average of 150 feet intervals. Installed as
close to property lines as possible
   Special Décor Fixture – New and Replacement Cost paid for by the City
 
   Main Roadway & Side Corridor Streets
   - Aluminum Pole, 6 to 10 foot arm, 30 feet in height, at least 100 and no
more than 125 Watt LEDs
   - At all intersections and an average of 300 feet intervals. Installed as
close to property lines as possible
   Standard LED Light – Replaced if broken beyond repair, damaged, or faulty
through Basic O&M    contract. These are BEMC Type 3 (104 Watt LED)
 
   HOA/POA Streetlights/Specialty Lighting
   - Streets Controlled by HOA/POA in a Subdivision: The City will not pay for
any costs associated with the     lighting of private streets or drives. Street
light fixture types and locations must be approved by the City
   ∙   Glaswerks with Ameron Concrete Pole
   ∙   Type 11/12 (LED)
   ∙   Type 21 (LED)
   Ms. Fish suggested that if the City would recommend a standard HOA/POA
light, BEMC could keep them in stock for a quicker repair/replace time.
   Mr. Tippett displayed a pie chart of BEMC Electric Customer Account Services
noting that BEMC does all the billing and receives all payments. He pointed out
that more customers are using the pay kiosk on Fodale Avenue.
   - Mail Check/Lockbox      29%
   - Automatic Bank Draft      21%
   - Ebill (Smarthub)         13%
   - Pay Bill from Their Bank      11%
   - Pay by Phone         11%
   - Southport Kiosk         10%
   - Mobile (Smarthub)          5%
   Mr. Tippett presented the Total Miles of Overhead and Underground as of
February 2019:
   - Total Miles of Primary (12470/7200 Volts)         57.75 Miles
      ∙   Overhead               22.88 Miles   40%
      ∙   Underground               34.87 Miles   60%
   - Total Miles of Secondary (< 600 Volts)         70.08
      ∙   Overhead               20.51      29%
      ∙   Underground               49.57      71%
   Note: There are 3064 Services in Place, including all customers, even if not
being billed. Of the 3064    Services, 626 Overhead and 2438 Underground.
   Mr. Tippett reviewed the Status of 2018/2019 Work Plan Projects:
   - Lord Street Overhead to Underground Conversion
      ∙   Complete/Waiting to Retire All OH Poles after Time Warner Cable
Removed their Wire
   - Yacht Basin/Moore AT&T Conversion so BEMC can retire Poles
      ∙   (Waiting on AT&T) – Complete
   - Bay Street Lighting – Complete
   - Right-of-Way Clearing (9 Weeks) – Complete
 
   Mr. Tippett outlined the 2-Year Work Plan – City Budget FY 19/20 and FY 20/
21
                                               Estimate
   - NCDOT Overhead to Underground Conversions of Services along Entire Hwy 211
Route   $ 77,000
   - NCDOT Streetlights Along Howe Street (Hwy 211)
    Main Roadway Corridor (Al Poles, 6’ Arm, LED Type 33, 300 Feet
Span)              $ 75,000
   - Fodale Avenue Overhead to Underground Conversion
    Including Joint Trench, Services and Streetlights
(Standard)                   $ 840,000
   - Fodale Avenue Overhead Retirement                        $ 35,000
                  Total 2-Year Work Plan               $ 1,027,000
 
   Mr. Tippett presented Potential Projects for 2020/2021 and 2021/2022 – Howe
Street Cable Upgrade and Conversion from Overhead to Underground:
 
   - Distribution Overhead to Underground Conversion
      ∙   Rebuilt 3Ø 2AAAC to 3Ø 1000 kcmil URD (Future Tie to Fodale Avenue
      ∙   Along Howe from W 10th to West Bay Street            1.0 miles
   - Howe Street – Service Conversions
      ∙   Along Howe from W 10th to W. St. George               48 Services
2.   Hurricane Florence Emergency Operations Review
   Referencing a provided Hurricane Florence After Action Review prepared by
firefighter and retired Coast Guardsman Warren Whitley, and evaluated by senior
staff, City Manager Oakley and the Board discussed procedures for the Emergency
Operations Center during an emergency event.
      ∙   Operate EOC per NIMS model
      ∙   Designate an Incident Commander to coordinate and address all
critical issues & personnel
      ∙   Essential personnel need to be identified
      ∙   Assign a Public Information Officer
      ∙   Definitive roles assigned
      ∙   Man EOC in shifts
      ∙   Assure fiber optics functioning
      ∙   Avoid a quorum of Board members in the EOC at any one time
      ∙   Provide adequate accommodations
      ∙   Designate central phone person to screen and route calls to
appropriate EOC staff
      ∙   Use Fire Prevention/Training room to stream updates/briefing of EOC
operations
 
Suggestions:   - Contact Dosher Hospital about using rooms to house employees
      - Contact School about using rooms to house employees & family members
      - Turn City Hall into a dormitory
      - Install a land line phone
      - Utilize fire department substation on East Nash Street
      - Update emergency & response manual
      - Replace generator at Public Works
      - Hold a mock drill
      
   City Manager Oakley pointed out that the Fire Chief plans to hold a
hurricane forum prior to the 2019 hurricane season.
3.   Departmental Reports
   Police Department
   Police Chief Coring presented the Police Department Report:
   Overview of Southport Police Department Since November 2018
   - Restoring Operations
   - Equipment Inventory:       Inventorying vehicles, weapons, computers,
uniforms
   - Restoration of Vehicles:      Some big ticket costs to get vehicles back
in service
   - Take Home Vehicle:         Privilege restored. Farthest travel
approximately 37 miles
   - Compliance Requirements:      Certifying officers
   - Evidence Vault:         Have addressed critical concerns; new procedures
for processing and handling. New evidence vault at new office. Evidence
collected at 113 W. Moore Street office moved to new office. Evidence collected
by Brunswick County Sheriff’s Office has been signed over. Evidence at 201 N.
Moore Building has been assessed and is secure. Building deemed unsafe; course
of action to be determined.
   - Relocation of Offices:      Once move to 1029 N. Howe Street complete,
will hold an open house.
   - Oversight and Accountability
    Of all Paperwork:         To include incident reports, property sheets,
CDI/NCIC entries and filings, arrest reports, daily operation reports, etc.
   - Division of Criminal Information
    Policies have been Restored:   Terminals activated; working to restore “hot
files” in order to address compliance issues and unified crime reports.
   - New Training Procedures   Will streamline the yearly required training.
   - Records Management      Oversight and storage being addresses.
   - Departmental Structure      Rank structure changed; Chief-Lieutenant-
Patrol
   - New Equipment         Have purchased critically needed Tasers
   
   Chief Coring spoke about five (5) departmental Priorities:
   Staffing/Hiring:         Requesting 3 Positions: 12th Patrol Officer,
Investigator/COP Community Programs Officer, Full-time Clerk with
certifications. Additional patrol    position will assure that 2 patrolmen are
always on duty.
   Policies & Procedures:      Current policies outdated. Focused policies to
be developed, implemented and will bring needed structure and understanding.
May be need for additional funding.
   Restoring Public Trust:      Community policing is vital. Programs are being
implemented; meetings with businesses and community, foot & bike patrols,
Security & Building Checks. Making the department more approachable and open
door to communications communitywide.
   Equipment Needs:         Weapons acquired in 2009 in need of replacement;
four (4) long gun replacements soon. Body Armor expiring. Three (3) in-car
computers needed. Patrol cars undergo a lot of wear and tear; looking at ways
and working with garage staff to extend usefulness. Rotation plan of equipment
to be established. Researching grants.
   Enhancing Technology:      Growing need to improve technology. County has
invited Southport Police Department to “piggy back” on an upgrade of the CAD
system at a cost savings. Implementation of Central Squares Technology to
enhance operations and put all vital information at officer’s fingertips.
 
   Parks & Recreation
   Parks and Recreation Director Hemphill presented the department report:
   City Dock:         Funding in 2018/2019 budget and appropriation in 2019/
2020 budget along with two (2) grants will allow for repairs, excluding
dredging. Working with NCDOT for grant. Requesting extension of FEMA Hurricane
Matthew funds.
   Taylor Field:         Received a waiver through PART(F) for appraisal credit
of land value - $397,000 as City    matching funds. Public meetings held,
survey taken and RFP’s requested based on responses (passive uses, connectivity
to Lowe White Park and downtown, eight (8) RFP’s received, design and cost
estimates to the Planning Board in March, April submittal to Board of Aldermen
for approval. Grant due May 1.
   9th Street:         Formerly Stephens Park and departmental man hub. 2015-
2020 Master Plan recommends a recreational center for a community the size of
Southport. Board of Education has approached City to help design a 9th Street
park/rec center.
   Community Building:   Office double doors on river side need to be replaced,
chairs scratching floor need to be replaced with folding chairs that take up
less space and building interior needs repainted.
   Responding to a query by Alderman Spencer, Director Hemphill spoke about his
suggestion to sell sponsorship/advertising sign space inside the City Gym. She
stated her opinion that a time limit would need to be established, and a
procedure for dealing with the current signs that have been there for two
decades. City Manager Oakley recommended a donation system for keeping current
signs.
   Responding to questions from Aldermen Spencer and Mosteller, Director
Hemphill indicated that the RFP included an amphitheater and solicited design
company ideas for the site. Director Hemphill stated she did not want an
amphitheater at Taylor Field to compete with Franklin Square Park.
   Alderman Tucker stated his opinion that a centralized recreational center
should be a priority and included in the upcoming budget cycle. Alderman
Spencer agreed and he stated his steadfast support for the department.
   Alderman Sharkey reported that AARP has approached the City regarding doing
a livability study. She noted that AARP would help fund the study which could
be useful in capturing future needs.
4.   Manager Update
   City Manager Oakley briefly touched on potential budget requests:
      - Animal Protective Services/Code Enforcement equipment; transfer truck
to Police Department and purchase a van. A Memorandum of Understanding to be
adopted with Brunswick County for a holding cell at the airport.
      - Administrative budget to include key communications Fiber Loop upgrade.
More details to be provided at budget meetings.
      - City cell phones now have dedicated service and push to talk
capability.
      - Employee incentives being pursued; i.e. compensatory time off, etc.
   City Manager Oakley expressed personal comments imploring the Board and
public to not question the motivations and intentions of everyone involved with
the offer by the Marina to purchase the former waste water treatment plant
site. He stated that he and the Marina have acted in good faith and he takes
personal offense when people reach out to him about the something fishy and
immoral comments and conversations taking place. He encouraged everyone to
weigh the facts. Noting that he was aware of the need for another meeting to
approve the purchase and the need for an additional meeting was included in the
Resolution, City Manager Oakley took responsibility for some of the
misinformation, specifically the process not being described fully that another
meeting would be required to approve the sale. He pointed out that the Board
did not know the Marina was interested in the property until the offer was
received.
   Public Works Director Fox announced that there is approximately 10,000 cubic
yards of mulch available to the public at Taylor Field.
5.   Board Comments
   Alderman Spencer expressed full support for City Manager Oakley.
   Alderman Sharkey stated appreciation for staff’s work putting together their
presentations. She stated her opinion that stormwater mitigation be a priority.
She expressed her hope that the Board can identify goals and objectives,
strategically plan for the future and establish funding to achieve their goals.
   Alderman Powell commended the City Manager and staff.
   Alderman Tucker echoed Alderman Powell’s comments and supported Alderman
Sharkey’s goal to look towards the future.
   Alderman Mosteller stated appreciation to staff’s continued commitment to
serve the citizens of Southport.    
Adjourn – 11:30 A.M.
   Alderman Tucker motioned, second by Alderman Powell to adjourn the meeting.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor             
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
FEBRUARY 14, 2019
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN     REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING  FEBRUARY 14, 2019
223 E. BAY STREET     SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Rick Pukenas, Jim Powell, Lora Sharkey, Karen Mosteller,
            Marc Spencer,   Robert Tucker
STAFF PRESENT:      Bruce Oakley, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
   Todd Coring, Police Chief
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   David Fox, Public Works Director
   Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
   Randy Jones, Tourism Director
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   Thomas Lloyd, Planner
   Kate Marshall, Animal Protective Services/Code Enforcement Officer
   Ellie Pittenger, Load Management Coordinator
               
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Dove called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Pukenas welcomed everyone and Lowe Davis gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Pukenas led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Public Comment
   Ms. Musette Steck, 4635 Willow Moss Way, speaking on behalf of Mr. Donnie
Joyner, thanked the City for supporting and publicizing Black History Month
events. She emphasized that the community building was filled multiple times
during the events.
   Ms. Joanne Clair-Mayer, 710 N. Atlantic Avenue, spoke in support of the sale
of the former wastewater treatment plant. She discussed three (3) topics: 1.
the site has been unused for eight (8) years, is a potential biohazard, and
poses legal liability if someone were to be hurt on the site; 2. Clean up of
the site is estimated at $440,000, there is a greater need for infrastructure
repairs; 3. Citizens elect the Board to make decisions best for the city and
all of its 3,600 citizens.
   Dr. Kim Jones, 1001 Pete’s Camp Drive, spoke in opposition to the sale of
the former wastewater treatment plant. She stated that Coastal Water Watch has
set precedent for transforming a wastewater treatment facility into a park. She
added that many years ago she had proposed a renewable energy park for the
site. She stated that the University of North Carolina at Wilmington (UNCW)
could develop an oyster hatchery at the site.
   Mr. Sandy Mitchell, 513 N. Atlantic Avenue, spoke in opposition to the
property sale, stating his assumption that a public hearing would be held on
the matter.
   Mr. Dale McPherson, 108 S. Rhett Street, and former Planning Board member
spoke in opposition to the property sale. He cited the Unified Development
Ordinance (UDO) Article 3- 10 which referenced the Planning Board’s role in the
acquisition and disposal of public property.
   Mr. Jim Newman, 301 East West Street, stated his opinion that the proposed
sale of the former wastewater treatment plant requires more discussion and
consideration of uses such as a park with a boardwalk through the marsh.
   Mr. Fred Fiss, 216 N. Atlantic Avenue, stated his opinion that the property
proposed to be sold belongs to the public and the existing structures could be
reused. He expressed his disappointment in the Mayor and Aldermen that in his
opinion, by-passed public input.
   Ms. Lowe Davis, 504 W. Brunswick Street, spoke in opposition to the property
sale. She emphasized full transparency of all information along with
explanation of how the sale is consistent with the CAMA Core Land Use Plan and
Parks & Recreation Master Plan. She stressed getting a more recent appraisal,
pursue a request for proposals of possible uses, and conduct a public hearing.
   Referencing a January 16 State Port Pilot newspaper article, Mr. Joe Pat
Hatem, 610A W. Brown Street, stressed that the voices of citizens, in
opposition to the sale of the former wastewater treatment plant, must be heard.
He asked the Board of Aldermen to not circumvent the review process by the
Planning Board.
   Mr. Brian Stevens, 503 Cades Trail, expressed his disappointment that the
City is not pursuing a waterfront park at the former wastewater treatment plant
site.
   Ms. Bonnie Bray, 515 Quartermaster Drive, commended the Aldermen for their
leadership following Hurricane Florence. Ms. Bray stated that nearly 50 people
had wanted to speak to the issue of the sale of the former wastewater treatment
plant at the February 2nd Board meeting, and were not permitted to do so. She
urged the Board to address the matter with leadership and to engage in public
discussion.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Dove stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
E)   Approval of Agenda
   Mayor Dove asked for addition of the Wastewater Asset Inventory and
Assessment Contract Extension with Cape Fear Council of Governments to the
Consent Agenda.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Sharkey to approve the agenda
as amended.
Unanimous vote; motion carried
F)   Announcements
   Alderman Pukenas expressed his appreciation for the audiences’ comments.
   Alderman Spencer announced that a longtime resident, Mr. Joe Young had
passed. He extended condolences to the family.
   Alderman Sharkey announced that Coastal Water Watch was teaming up with the
Beautification Committee and Southport Marina for a clean-up day. She stated
the event would be held Saturday, March 2 beginning at 9:00 a.m. in the Marina
parking lot. She indicated that trash bags and water would be provided.
   Alderman Mosteller praised the Forestry Committee for the recent plantings
of eight (8) 3 – 4 inch caliper Live Oaks that were purchased through a private
donation. She announced that an Arbor Day observance would be held Friday,
April 26, 11:00 a.m. in Keziah Park with live music, free ice cream and Mr. Jim
McKee, Director of Old Brunswick Town, as keynote speaker. She voiced a
reminder that the Forestry Committee meets the second Tuesday of each month at
the Fire Department Substation, 111 E. Nash Street.
   Alderman Mosteller announced a “Day of Service” would be held Saturday,
April 6, 9:00 – noon. She pointed out that churches, civic groups and the
Beautification Committee were coordinating with the Southport Tourism
Department to continue waterfront shoreline clean up, painting at Keziah and
Caviness Parks and cleaning/weeding/trimming of the NC 211/87 traffic triangle.
   Alderman Tucker stated he had encouraged citizens to attend Board meetings
and express their views. He thanked the public for attending.
   Alderman Powell thanked citizens for attending the meeting and he wished
everyone a Happy Valentine’s Day.
Presentation – Load Management Program
   Ellie Pittenger, Load Management Coordinator, explained the Load Management
Program which rewards residential and small commercial electric customers with
incremental discounts when they participate. Mr. Pittenger described the “peak”
hour; normally 7:00 – 8:00 a.m.in the winter and 4:00 – 5:00 p.m. in the summer
and he emphasized that the one peak hour can make up over half of the City’s
entire monthly electric bill. Mr. Pittenger explained the load management
discount tiers and stated that Southport is the only municipality in the state
that offers a discount rate on each level of Load Management:
   - Tier 1:   11.5¢ per kilowatt hour
   - Tier 2:   10.5¢ per kilowatt hour
   - Tier 3:    9.5¢ per kilowatt hour
   - Tier 4:    8.5¢ per kilowatt hour
Mr. Pittenger shared statistical information demonstrating the increase in the
number of customers utilizing the program. He announced that informational
pamphlets were available during the meeting, he had Wi-Fi thermostats with him
for anyone who wanted to sign up and he is available for questions and
assistance    at the Public Works Department, 1010 N. Howe Street, 910-457-
7938, epittenger@cityofsouthport.com
   Alderman Mosteller praised the program stating that she participates, has
never noticed a difference in the service and the savings can be upwards to
30%.
   Mayor Dove encouraged everyone to pick up a pamphlet.
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Sharkey to approve the Consent
Agenda.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   1.   Approval of Minutes for January 10, 2019 Regular Meeting Minutes and
February 2, 2019 Board Retreat Workshop Section – approved
   2.   Road Closures Request – approved
   3.   Resolution Directing the Clerk to Investigate A Petition Received Under
G. S. 160A-61 - approved
   4.   Wastewater Asset Inventory and Assessment Contract Extension (contract
on file in the Clerk’s office) - approved
 
Board of Aldermen Road Closure Request
 
Southport Wooden Boat Show                Cape Fear Cruiser 5th Annual Classic
Car ‘n Rock ‘n Roll
Contact: Chris Schnell (910) 352-8935             Contact: Dale Boden (336)
817-6864
Date of Closure: November 2, 2019                Date of Closure: Oct 26, 2019
Requested Time: 6 am - 6 pm                Requested Time: 8 am - 6 pm
- Closure on Moore St from Lord St. to Yacht Basin Dr.        - Closure on S.
Howe St. from Moore St. to Bay St.
- On Caswell Ave. from Brunswick St. to Bay St.           - Closure of parking
around Whittler’s Bench
- On Lord St, from Moore St to Bay St.
 
Southport Holly Days Southport Baptist Church
Contact: Todd Coring (910) 457-7913
Requested Time: 6 am – 4 pm
- Closure on Nash St., between Howe and Davis Streets
RESOLUTION DIRECTING THE CLERK TO INVESTIGATE
A PETITION RECEIVED UNDER G.S. 160A-31
   WHEREAS, a petition requesting annexation of an area described in said
petition was received on February 6, 2019 by the Board of Aldermen; and
   WHEREAS, G.S. 160A-31 provides that the sufficiency of the petition shall be
investigated by the City Clerk before further annexation proceedings may take
place; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport deems it advisable
to proceed in response to this request for annexation;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport that:
   The City Clerk is hereby directed to investigate the sufficiency of the
above described petition and to certify as soon as possible to the Board of
Aldermen the result of her investigation.
                        /s/ J.V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
AGENDA 
   5.   Johnson Environmental
   Public Works Director Fox asked the Board to approve the proposal for
Johnson Environmental & Disaster Consulting Services to prepare two year term
contracts for fiscal years 2019/2020 and 2020/2021 for Disaster Debris
Vegetative and C&D and Dangerous Tree and Hanging Limbs contracts. Director Fox
stated that Johnson Environmental does a professional job representing the City
during disaster events and has an excellent understanding of FEMA regulations.
   Alderman Tucker motioned, second by Alderman Powell to approve the renewal
contract.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   6.   Budget Amendment #4; Fire Department   
   Finance Director Trexler explained that the Fire Department has obtained
$405,192 from the acquisition of the Caswell Beach Fire Department. She noted
that there may be more money forthcoming. She asked that the Budget Amendment
be approved to appropriate the funds for use by the Fire Department.
   Alderman Pukenas motioned, second by Alderman Powell to approve Budget
Amendment #4.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Budget Amendment
Fiscal Year 2018-2019
Budget Amendment #4
WHEREAS the City of Southport Fire Departments has received funds from the
Caswell Beach Fire Department acquisition, and the funds need to be
appropriated for expenditures of maintaining the departments equipment and
volunteers and
WHEREAS there are sufficient funds in the General Fund, and
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2018-2019 needs to be amended to
reflect the additional appropriation of funds and expenditures to run the fire
departments;
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2018-2019 shall be
amended as follows:
                 
                           Increases
Revenues:
Appropriated Fund Balance
10-11-3434-0100 General Fund               $ 396,270
21-11-3434-8400 Firemen’s Revenues            $ 8,922
Total Appropriated                     $ 405,192
Expenditures
General Fund Expenditures
21-11-4340-3000 Southport Firemen’s Expenses         $ 8,922 
10-11-4340-0000 Full Time Employees              $ 5,000
10-11-4340-2100 Uniforms and Protective gear         $ 20,000
10-11-4340-2500 Vehicle Supplies               $ 10,000
10-11-4340-2601 Departmental Supplies Rescue         $ 5,000
10-11-4340-3501 RM Vehicles               $ 15,000
10-11-4340-4500 Insurance & Bonding            $ 15,000
10-11-4340-7100 Debt Service               $ 25,572
10-11-4340-5800 Other Capital Outlay            $300,698
Total General Fund Expenditures               $405,192
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, February 14,
2018
                           /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor            
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
===================================================================================================================================
   7.   Budget Amendment #5; Forestry Committee
   Finance Director Trexler explained that the Tourism Department held a fund
raiser for the benefit of forestry preservation projects and raised $6,000. She
asked that the Budget Amendment be approved to appropriate the funds for
expenditures by the Forestry Committee.
   Alderman Mosteller motioned, second by Alderman Powell to approve Budget
Amendment #5.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Budget Amendment
Fiscal Year 2018-2019
Budget Amendment #5
   WHEREAS the City of Southport Tourism Department held a fund raiser for the
benefit of Forestry Preservation Projects. The funds need to be appropriated
for expenditures of the Forestry Committee.
   WHEREAS these funds are in the General Fund, and
   WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2018-2019 needs to be amended
to reflect the additional appropriation of funds and expenditures;
   BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2018-2019 shall be
amended as follows:
                 
                           Increases
Revenues:
10-82-3617-0000 Tourism Revenue               $ 6,000
Expenditures
General Fund Expenditures
10-03-4190-2402 Forestry Projects               $ 6,000
 
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, February 14,
2018
                           /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
===================================================================================================================================
COMMITTEE REPORTS
   Mr. Scott Jones, Chairman of the Parks & Recreation Advisory Board, reported
on the February 5 meeting of the Advisory Board. He stated that there were
discussions about ongoing classes and programs of the Southport Parks &
Recreation Department, and moving forward with plans for Taylor Field. He noted
that much of the meeting was taken up with discussion of the proposed sale of
the former wastewater treatment plant site. He pointed out that the Advisory
Board submitted a letter January 2016 requesting the City to keep the property
for green space. He cited the Parks & Recreation Master Plan that placed a
priority on protecting and preserving open/green space and providing three (3)
water access points. Mr. Jones asked the Mayor and Aldermen to consider the
opinion of the Parks & Recreation Advisory Board when deciding the fate of the
property.
   Alderman Mosteller gave an update on Taylor Field. She stated that through
the generous gift of the property, the city is in the planning stages of
development for the site. She reported that proposals were received from
multiple groups and it is anticipated the preliminary designs will be ready by
the end of the month with subsequent review by the Planning Board followed by
submittal to the Board of Aldermen at their April 11 regular meeting. Alderman
Mosteller reported that the PART(F) grant is due April 30 and the City is able
to take advantage of the appraised property value towards its matching grant.
Alderman Mosteller stated that citizen input is crucial towards the development
of the site.
   Alderman Mosteller reported that the first phase of an audit of the CAMA
Core Land Use Plan and UDO has been completed. She stated that the next UDO
review meeting would be held Thursday, February 28, 4:00 p.m. in the City Hall
2nd floor conference room. She added that a final draft of the Ordinance is
anticipated to be complete the first quarter of 2020. She recognized the
dedication and commitment by staff’s service and investment in the project.
 
PROJECT REPORT
   City Manager Oakley reported that hurricane repairs are on-going with the
Willis Avenue storm drain complete, and Moore Street and Caswell Avenue nearing
completion. He stated that sewer line repairs are next on the schedule with
paving to follow completion of the storm water and sewer lines repairs.
   City Manager Oakley reported that Waste Industries is revising the recycling
pick-up schedule and detailed notices would be sent out to all customers.
   City Manager Oakley extended an invitation to all citizens to visit him at
his office in City Hall if they have questions or want information and facts on
any project the City is undertaking.
 
STAFF REPORTS 
– provided in Agenda packet
   Public Works Director Fox announced that the city has approximately 8,000
cubic yards of mulch available for the public at Taylor Field.
   Chief Coring stated that he anticipates holding an Open House at the
relocated Police Department within the next couple weeks. He added that there
has been a lot of interest in the open positions within the department.
BOARD COMMENTS
   Alderman Pukenas announced that on Saturday, February 16, 3:30 p.m., the
Presbyterian Church would be holding an Open House for their new facility.
   Alderman Spencer announced that hearing impaired devices are available for
use during the Board meetings.
   Alderman Sharkey reported that a FEMA workshop she and Alderman Mosteller
attended was a disappointment. She stated that they had sought information on
available disaster recovery monies and were advised that funds were given to
the State and an application would have to be submitted to the State.
   Per Alderman Mosteller’s request, verbatim comments provided in their
entirety:
“I would like to thank all the citizens for being here tonight and expressing
their concerns.
Just a few observations regarding the Board of Aldermen’s consideration to sell
two and a half acres of city owned property bordering the Indigo Plantation
Marsh Reserve on Cottage Creek.
We are having this conversation because the Preston Group made an unsolicited
offer to purchase the city’s West West property.
I would ask this Board to consider allowing the Planning Board and the Parks
and Recreation Advisory Board to make recommendations regarding the sale of two
and a half acres of public water access land before we consider the Preston
Group’s unsolicited offer.
What’s wrong with the discussion about the West West property, is that
discussion is only happening at a Board level. I do not understand what has
created this arbitrary sense of urgency to act without following the city’s
procedures for determining the land’s possible strategic value to the future of
the city.
This Board recently considered a request by a developer for us to give away a
small piece of right-of-way land by the entrance of his development. This Board
for good reason did not approve of giving away the public’s right-of-way land.
I am confused, we wouldn’t give away a few feet of right-of- way land but we
are going to sell two and a half acres of public owned land with water access
without fully vetting the decision. There are clear processes that should be
followed before decisions regarding the sale of public properties are acted on.
The UDO clearly states that the Planning Board shall review and make
recommendations to the Board of Aldermen regarding the acquisition and disposal
of public properties.
These processes exist because public land belongs to the citizens of Southport.
The Planning Board exists to provide a structured review process to ensure
thoughtful deliberation and recommendations for the future of Southport.
Because we all know, once it’s gone…it’s gone.
An important role of the Planning Board is to provide a forum for citizens to
participate in the process. The CAMA Land Use Plan and the UDO are the long-
term strategic documents that provide guidance for Planning Board
recommendations.
I am unclear what is motivating the Board’s arbitrary sense of urgency to
negate the policies and procedures we have in place and rush to consideration
of an unsolicited offer from the Preston Group, before we consider the
importance of a recommendation from the Planning Board.
In addition to excluding the Planning Board from the process of selling public
land, I would like to know why we received 2 different offers from the Preston
Group. The first offer dated January 4th offered the city a 10-foot easement
along the northern property line that is shown as predominately wetlands on the
survey and $25,000 dollars toward a kayak/observation dock within the 10-foot
easement.
The city then received a second offer from the Preston Group dated January 30
that had the original easement components with the addition of a tenth of an
acre of upland area adjacent to the 10-foot property line easement within the
NCDENR 75-foot Area of Environmental Concern.
I do not understand why the Preston Group changed their offer without a counter
offer? I guess they were negotiating with themselves.
The Preston Group’s small easements for citizen use, will define the City’s
future utilization of this public water access land without any regard for the
Parks and Recreation Advisory Board’s input.
Another process that has been negated by the Board’s action regarding the
unsolicited offer from the Preston Group.
The Parks and Recreation Advisory Board exist to help guide the development of
parks in Southport. The Parks and Rec Advisory Board …base their
recommendations on the 2015 -2020 Parks and Recreation and Open Space Master
Plan, the strategic long-term planning document that the City of Southport
invested in, to help plan and guide the decisions that will define the future
of our city.
I hope this Board will not negate the roles of the Planning Board and the Parks
and Recreation Advisory Board in our planning process regarding the future use
of the two and a half acres of public water access property.
We just completed the annual retreat workshop. We have a lot to get done in the
coming year and selling the West West property was not a priority. If this
Board decides to make it a priority, then we must follow the processes that
lead to well thought-out decisions.
The general fund needs rebuilding, I agree. But this is not a new problem.
There are going to have to be some changes. In the next few months we are going
to have these discussions and make some decisions. FEMA funds will be coming in
and we have over $4,000,000 in unrestricted funds in the Electric fund that we
can bridge a gap with if we need to until we receive the FEMA funds and then
repay the Electric fund.
The idea that a onetime selling of an asset is a solution to building the
general fund and will have any real long-term impact on the general fund just
isn’t true. Unless that’s our plan and we better get more money for it and
decide what are we going to sell next year.
And again, if this is a new priority for our Board, I expect us to engage the
Planning Board and the Parks and Recreation Advisory Board and allow them to
make recommendations regarding the future use and possible sale of two and a
half acres of public water access land before we consider the Preston Group’s
unsolicited offer.”
ADJOURN
   Alderman Tucker motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to adjourn the February
14, 2019 meeting.
Unanimous vote; motion carried. Meeting adjourned at 7:27 p.m.
   
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor                
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
FEBRUARY 26, 2019
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN   SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
FIRE HEADQUARTERS   FEBRUARY 26, 2019
1011 N. HOWE STREET SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor J.V. Dove
         Aldermen Rick Pukenas, Lora Sharkey, Karen Mosteller, Jim Powell,
Robert Tucker, Marc Spencer
STAFF PRESENT:   Bruce Oakley, City Manager
         Michele Windham, City Clerk
         Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
         Tanya Shannon, Deputy City Clerk
         Todd Coring, Police Chief
         David Fox, Public Works Director
         Randy Jones, Tourism Director
         B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
         Thomas Lloyd, Planner
               
Call to Order - 5:30 p.m.
   Mayor Dove called the Special Meeting of February 26, 2019 to order.
AGENDA
1.   Authorize Manager to Negotiate an Agreement with Design Firm for Taylor
Field
   City Manager Oakley reported that staff had reviewed the RFQ’s received from
design firms for the Taylor Field project. He stated that McGill Associates, P.
A. were selected and he requested authorization to negotiate a contract with
the firm. City Manager Oakley stated that McGill Associates are located in
Shallotte and have local ties.
   Responding to a query by Alderman Sharkey, Director Hemphill stated that
McGill Associates were selected due to their experience working with PART(F)
grants, and the quality of projects they have undertaken throughout the County.
   Alderman Mosteller outlined the review process; contract initiated,
submittal of designs, review of designs by staff and Planning Board,
Recommendation by Planning Board submitted to the Board of Aldermen during the
April 11 regular meeting, grant submittal due April 30. She encouraged citizens
to mark their calendars and attend the Planning Board and Board of Aldermen
meetings.
   Board Consensus to authorize the City Manager to negotiate an agreement with
McGill Associates for a design for Taylor Field.
2.   Resolution Opposing ABC Board Proposed Legislation
   City Manager Oakley explained that there are proposed legislative bills to
change how the sale of liquor is conducted. One bill wishes to privatize ABC
sales and another recommends placing the control under the jurisdiction of
County governments. City Manager Oakley pointed out that the current system of
control provides revenue to the City. He pointed out it is in the financial
interest of the City to oppose the proposed legislation.
   Alderman Mosteller motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to adopt the
Resolution in Support of the Current ABC Control System for the Sale of Liquor.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   RESOLUTION IN SUPPORT OF THE CURRENT ABC CONTROL SYSTEM FOR THE SALE OF
LIQUOR
   WHEREAS, the citizens of the City of Southport voted to permit the sale of
liquor through the establishment of an ABC Board, which is a part of the North
Carolina’s control system for the sale of spirituous liquors;
   WHEREAS, North Carolina is a “control” state and private retail liquor
stores are prohibited;
   WHEREAS, the General Assembly’s nonpartisan Program Evaluation Division
(PED) was directed to examine whether other systems for alcohol beverage
control, including privatized systems, are appropriate for North Carolina,
specially to include the State of Washington, which recently changed its
beverage control system from state government control of wholesale and retail
control of spirituous liquor to a licensure model;
   WHEREAS, The PED Report, “Changing How North Carolina Controls Liquor Sales
Has Operational, Regulatory, and Financial Ramifications”, released on February
11, 2019, (1) did not recommend privatization, (2) found that among the
southeastern states, NC collects the most revenue per gallon, has the lowest
outlet density and has the second lowest per capita consumption; and (3) the
PED expects retail liquor consumption to increase by 20% with privatization.
   WHEREAS, for fiscal year ending 20187, local ABC boards distributed
$430,635,861: County-City Distributions $80 million; State General Fund $323
million; Local Alcohol Education/Treatment $13 million; Local Law Enforcement
$8.8 million; Rehabilitation Services $5 million; Operation of ABC Commission/
Warehouse $17.7 million.
   WHEREAS, North Carolina is unique as it allows communities to vote to
establish local ABC boards for the sale of liquor in their communities, with
liquor profits distributed back to those communities, thereby reducing the need
to increase local property taxes.
   WHEREAS, the citizens of the City of Southport, in voting to permit the
operation of ABC stores, did not vote to allow spirits to be sold in private
retail liquor stores and did not vote to allow spirits to be sold retail
outlets where beer and wine are sold;
   WHEREAS, No State funds are spent to distribute or sell liquor as the state
and local operation of the ABC system is receipt supported;
   WHEREAS, Of the 50 states, North Carolina ranks 44th lowest in consumption
per capita and 7th highest in revenue per capita and NC’s ABC system
accomplishes both revenue and public health, welfare and safety objectives;
   WHEREAS, when Washington State privatized its liquor system the number of
retail outlets increased from 328 to over 1400, hours of sale/week increased
from 73 to 140 hours, and Washington State received only $30.75 million from
auctioning off the rights to apply for retail spirits permits at 167 stores;
   WHEREAS, privatization will result in a marked increase in the number of
outlets, longer hours of sale, greater advertising and more promotion and
significantly more consumption; and the 9,000 outlets in NC that sell beer/wine
off-premises could be permitted to sell liquor in a privatized system;
   WHEREAS, local revenue from ABC stores operations is important to the City;
   WHEREAS, local control over the sale of liquor is an important function.
   NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED:
   That the City of Southport desires to retain North Carolina’s current
control system for the sale of liquor and believes that privatization of liquor
will lead to many adverse effects.
                        By: /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor      
Attest: /a/ Michele Windham, City Clerk         Date: February 26, 2019
3.   Consider Resolution Approving Sale of Property
   City Manager Oakley stated that Southport Marina has offered the City
$650,000 for the former wastewater treatment plant site. He added that the
clean-up is estimated to be $365,000. He emphasized that the Marina will
dedicate a 10’ access easement, retained in perpetuity, along the northern
property line and .11 acres of upland area for public access and other public
uses. City Manager Oakley pointed out that the Marina has 150 days of due
diligence once the contract is executed before finalizing the deal.
   Responding to a query from Alderman Pukenas, City Manager Oakley stated that
the $365,000 estimate did not include environmental clean-up; it was for just
the demolition.
   Per Alderman Mosteller’s request, verbatim comments provided in their
entirety:
“Before we consider the resolution approving the sale of the West West
property…
I want to recognize that last week, at the February Planning Board meeting…The
Planning Board discussed the importance of following the UDO and unanimously
voted to support a motion to let the Board of Aldermen know, the Planning Board
stands ready to complete their responsibilities regarding the disposal of
public property.
I am asking for the Board to follow the ordinances of the City of Southport …I
am making the following motion…
In accordance with Article 3-10 in the Southport Unified Development Ordinance…
table the Board of Aldermen’s consideration of the resolution on this agenda to
approve the disposal sale of the publicly owned West West property and for this
Board to ask the Planning Board to review and report recommendations to the
Board of Aldermen regarding the potential disposal sale of the publicly owned
West West property.
And as outlined in Article 3-10 of the UDO, for this Board to submit in
writing, the following questions to the Planning Board for review at the next
regularly scheduled Planning Board meeting and report recommendations, if any,
to the Board of Aldermen within 30 days subsequent to the Planning Board
meeting.
The questions for the Planning Board…
   ∙   Is the proposed disposal sale of the publicly owned West West property
consistent with the Southport Core Land Use Plan and other city long term
strategic plans?
   ∙   Do the two proposed city easement accesses, named in the current West
West property purchase offer under consideration by the Board of Aldermen,
provide the opportunity to design and build adequate public structures and
facilities for public water access to Cottage Creek and the Indigo Plantation
March Reserve?
   ∙   After the Planning Board has completed the review of the proposed
disposal sale of the publicly owned West West property, are there other factors
recommended by the Planning Board for the consideration of Board of Aldermen
regarding the future disposal sale of the West West property?
There are clear processes that should be followed before decisions regarding
the sale of public properties are acted on.
The members of the Planning Board are sworn in and take their responsibilities
to the Board of Aldermen and the future of Southport very seriously. The Board
of Aldermen have entrusted the Planning Board with powers and duties that are
vital to promoting the orderly development of our city. The Board of Aldermen
relies on the review and recommendations of the Planning Board to help make
development decisions that will shape the future of our city. This should be no
different… the Board of Aldermen must follow the ordinances of the City of
Southport.”
Motion died for lack of a second.
   Responding to a question from Alderman Mosteller, City Attorney Isenberg
stated that Article 3- 10 of the UDO is an unusual local provision and has
nothing to do with due process as the Board is free to disregard the
recommendation of the Planning Board. He pointed out that state statutes set
out seven (7) basic duties for the Planning Board related to land development
and the sale of property is not one of them. In fact, the sale and disposition
of property is in a separate article in 160A from the article dealing with
planning boards and land development. He added that state statutes give the
governing Board complete discretion in the decision to sell or dispose of
property. He recommended that the Board repeal the UDO article and make the
repeal effective retroactively if it did not intend to follow section 3-10.
   City Manager Oakley noted that Section 3-10 is recommended to be removed
from the UDO per the current review and update.
   Alderman Sharkey stated her opinion that inserting the Planning Board into
the sale process at this time was not practical. She pointed out that the buyer
will be submitting development plans that will be thoroughly reviewed by the
Planning Board for compliance with the UDO. Additionally, Alderman Sharkey
emphasized that the Planning Board has no history of reviewing acquisitions or
sales made by the City.
   Alderman Sharkey motioned, second by Alderman Tucker to direct staff to
submit a text amendment to repeal UDO Article 3-10, Public Facilities,
effective February 26, 2019 to the Planning Board for review.
   Vote:   Aye:   Aldermen Sharkey, Tucker, Powell, Spencer, Pukenas
      Nay:   Alderman Mosteller
   Motion carried 5-1
Discussion
   Per Alderman Mosteller’s request, verbatim comments provided in their
entirety:
“It has been said that when the Board of Aldermen were considering the purchase
of a new city hall building the Planning Board was not involved in this
acquisition. I spoke with the former Mayor and he indicated that the purchase
of the city hall building was an exhaustive process that included many public
hearings over several months. The public hearings provided Planning Board
members, as well as citizens, multiple opportunities to participate in the
acquisition discussions. The Board of Aldermen acted with transparency
throughout that process with public hearings.”
   Alderman Tucker agreed with Alderman Sharkey. He pointed out that the Board
of Aldermen have heard the opinions of advisory boards, listened to public
comments, have had personal contact, and have received text messages, phone
calls, and e-mails.
   Alderman Tucker motioned, second by Alderman Powell to adopt the Resolution
Approving Sale of Property with the terms as shown.
Discussion
   Referencing the Resolution Authorizing Negotiated Offer and Upset Bid
Process adopted February 2, 2019, Alderman Mosteller cautioned accepting the
offer until performing due diligence. Alderman Mosteller contended that the 10
day upset bid period was flawed as only an exact offer could be made. Attorney
Isenberg clarified that an upset bid could have been submitted for any
permitted use in the business district zoning and that an upset bid just could
not have added additional conditions or contingencies.  
   Alderman Mosteller questioned points of the proposed contract:
   ∙   Discrepancy in the description of the parcel – 2.5 acre or 2.68?
      What is size of wetlands and uplands?
   ∙   The 10 ft. easement appears to be in the wetlands. Can it be used to
benefit the public?
   ∙   What will regulatory agencies; i.e. CAMA, allow City to build
   ∙   No mention about impervious surface restrictions
   ∙   No mention of public access to parking facilities
   ∙   Conditional Use Permit listed in the contract when Dry Storage is a
permitted use in Business District zoning.
   ∙   Permitting a structure 50 feet high when maximum height is 40 feet high
   ∙   Issuance of a variance to the height requirement could not be granted as
there is no “hardship”
   ∙   Is real value of the property greater than the $650,000 offered
   ∙   Not a true public/private partnership
 
   Per Alderman Mosteller’s request, verbatim comments provided in their
entirety:
“The UDO clearly states in Article 3 – 10 that the Planning Board shall review
and make recommendations to the Board of Aldermen regarding the acquisition and
disposal of public properties.
These processes exist because public land belongs to the citizens of Southport.
The Planning Board exists to provide a structured review process to help ensure
thoughtful deliberation and recommendations for the future of Southport.
I know of at least three examples of past land use decisions that I have heard
citizens lament…
   ∙   River Watch, with a total of 8 houses, 4 of which are river front. The
Board of Aldermen gave up right- of-way land because a developer said he was
going to build a hotel. Eventually the developer subdivided the land, homes
were built and sold and the developer made a lot of money and the citizens of
Southport got nothing for the publicly owned land that had been given up.
   ∙   The house being built at the end of Atlantic Avenue… that has been the
subject of so many conversations …sits on land once owned by the City of
Southport. I think that might be a decision that we wish we could have a do-
over. Again, publically owned land that was given up.
   ∙   The shoe boxes, the structures by American Fish…the result of unintended
consequences that can come in the absence of a well thought out process.
   These are just three examples that were not in the long-term best interest
of the citizens of Southport. This Board should err on the side of caution with
slow and thoughtful deliberation when it comes to land use decisions
especially, before we give up publicly owned land.
   Again, I ask that we as public servants, do not act in haste, without
vision, without due diligence…and risk being the Board that didn’t understand
the value, didn’t take the time, didn’t ask the right questions, didn’t follow
the UDO, didn’t work with the Planning Board and responsible for a missed
opportunity.”
      Per Alderman Mosteller’s request, verbatim comments provided in their
entirety:
“The point is more due diligence on the part of the city, this would make a
good private public partnership project to maximize the value for the citizens
of Southport but that requires a plan and an open bid process, not a 10-day
upset bid period with the terms in the Preston Group offer.
The Preston Group is not offering the city a partnership, just a couple of
minor easements. This is two and a half acres of publicly owned land. W e own
to the middle of Cottage Creek and making sure we maximize the value of the
property and protect the citizens water access is critical. According to the
survey, the 10' easement they are giving the city appears to be in wetlands.
Who knows what CAMA agencies will allow us to do in a 10' easement in wetlands?
This is being rushed through without benefit of Planning Board review and
recommendations which is detailed in the UDO 3-10 or a public meeting.”
   Alderman Pukenas pointed out that the City sold the water skirt property at
the end of Atlantic Avenue in 1915.
   Per Alderman Mosteller’s request, verbatim comments provided in their
entirety:
   “Please let’s choose to do something great.
Not many communities our size, own property like the West West property.
Please let’s not settle for what’s been brought to us by a special interest
just because today, we can’t see the opportunities beyond.
Let’s set ourselves and our city up for our best long-term success… Before we
consider any offer, we must prioritize the destiny of the publicly owned West
West property…
   ∙   With due-diligence
   ∙   Thoughtful deliberation that utilizes the Planning Board review process
   ∙   And explore the opportunities that Public-Private partnerships could
provide …to maximize the value of this asset for the citizens of Southport both
intrinsically and monetarily
At the end of the day, the citizens of Southport need to be able to be
confident that this Board has thoroughly considered all options. This is not a
time for us to make a decision that got added to an agenda of a Retreat
Workshop and again voted on at a specially called meeting. A valuable asset
like two and a half acres of citizen owned water access property is worthy of a
complete and thorough review and analysis …and the citizens deserve it.”
Vote:   Aye:   Aldermen Tucker, Powell, Sharkey, Spencer, Pukenas
   Nay:   Alderman Mosteller
   Motion carried 5-1
Adjourn – 6:08 P.M.
   Motion by Alderman Powell, second by Alderman Sharkey to adjourn the
meeting.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
                     /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
                            
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
MARCH 14, 2019
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING MARCH 14, 2019
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Rick Pukenas, Jim Powell, Lora Sharkey, Karen Mosteller,
            Marc Spencer, Robert Tucker
STAFF PRESENT:      Bruce Oakley, City Manager
            Michele Windham, City Clerk
            Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
            Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
            Todd Coring, Police Chief
            Charles Drew, Fire Chief
            David Fox, Public Works Director
            Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
            Randy Jones, Tourism Director
            B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
            Thomas Lloyd, Planner
            Kate Marshall, Animal Protective Services/Code Enforcement Officer
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Dove called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Mosteller welcomed everyone and Rev. Patricia Smith, St. James AME
Zion Church, gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Mosteller led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Public Comment
   Ms. Florence Mason, 111 N. Lord Street and Durango, Colorado resident, spoke
about Short Term Rentals. She encouraged the Board to start regulating the
rentals before issues with parking, occupancy levels, noise and other
activities became a problem. Ms. Mason provided suggested regulations that have
been enacted in other cities. (complete comments on file in the Clerk's office)
   Mr. Nick Kern, 415 Burrington Avenue, addressed the Board and suggested a
meeting be held to consider options for the renovation of the former County
Courthouse/Southport City Hall building at 201 E. Moore Street. Mr. Kern stated
he would like to assist in the endeavor.
   Rev. Lowe Davis, 504 Brunswick Street, spoke about the proposed Animal
Welfare Ordinance to be considered by the Board for adoption. Ms. Davis served
on the committee tasked with updating the ordinance. She stated that a
tremendous amount of public input was received, all sides were heard and the
resultant ordinance had been crafted to be fair to all concerned. Ms. Davis
encouraged the Board to adopt the Ordinance.
   Ms. Jeri Ward, 305 E. 8th Street, asked for attention to be given to the
feral cats roaming her neighborhood and taking shelter under her shed.
   Mr. Jim Lightbourne, 316 W. West Street, stated his opinion that the Board
had missed opportunities and made mistakes with recent decisions.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Dove stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
E)   Approval of Agenda
   Alderman Pukenas motioned, second by Alderman Sharkey to approve the Agenda.
Unanimous vote; motion carried
F)   Announcements
   Alderman Mosteller announced that the third annual Southport Day of Service
would be held Saturday, April 6 beginning with breakfast at 8:00 a.m.
   Alderman Mosteller encouraged all to attend the Monday, March 18, 12:00 - 2:
00 and 4:00- 7:00 Open House at the Community Building to receive public input
on the design for Taylor Park. She added that there is a survey on the City's
website that can be submitted as well.
   Alderman Pukenas announced that this meeting date marked the six-month
anniversary since Hurricane Florence. Noting that many of the orange cones
throughout the city are gone, Alderman Pukenas recognized the hard work of city
staff.
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Sharkey motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to approve the Consent
Agenda. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
      1.   Approval of Minutes for February 2, 2019 Recessed Meeting; February
9, 2019 Recessed Session; February 14, 2019 Regular Meeting and February 26,
2019 Special Meeting - approved
      2.   Personnel & Social Media Policy – approved (Policies on file in the
Clerk’s office)
      3.   Accept Clerk’s Certification and Set Public Hearing for Voluntary
Annexation – approved
CERTIFICATE OF SUFFICIENCY
   To the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North Carolina:
   I, Michele Windham, City Clerk, do hereby certify that I have investigated
the attached petition and hereby find that said petition is signed by all
owners of real property lying in the area described therein in accordance with
G.S. 160A-31.
   In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the seal of the
City of Southport, this 6th day of March, 2019.
                                 /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
 
RESOLUTION FIXING DATE OF PUBLIC HEARING ON QUESTION OF ANNEXATION PURSUANT TO
G.S. 160A-31
WHEREAS, a petition requesting annexation of the area described herein has been
received; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen has by resolution directed the City Clerk to
investigate the sufficiency of the petition; and
WHEREAS, certification by the City Clerk as to the sufficiency of the petition
has been made;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport, North Carolina that:
Section 1. A public hearing on the question of annexation of the area described
herein will be held at the Southport Community Building located at 223 E. Bay
Street in Southport, N.C. at 6:00 p.m. on April 11, 2019.
Section 2. The area proposed for annexation is described as follows:
Being all of that certain parcel(s) or tract of land lying and being in
Smithville Township, Brunswick County, North Carolina and being more
particularly described as follows:
METES AND BOUNDS FOR LOT 1 BLOCK 6 SOUTHPORT HEIGHTS
BEGINNING at an iron stake which is located at the NE intersection point of W
12th Street and N Caswell Avenue, from the BEGINNING point so located running
thence with the eastern right of way of N Caswell Ave N 21-30-40 W 50.00 feet
to an iron stake; thence leaving the said right of way, N 68-28-35 E 123.31
feet to an existing iron stake; thence, S 21-42-57 E 50.14 feet to an existing
iron pipe in the northern right of way of W 12th St; thence, running with said
right of way S 68-32-27 W 123.48 feet to the point of BEGINNING; containing
00.14 acres.
METES AND BOUNDS FOR LOT 2 BLOCK 6 SOUTHPORT HEIGHTS
BEGINNING at an iron stake that is located in the eastern right of way of N
Caswell Ave, said BEGINNING point is also located N 21-30-40 W 50.00 feet from
an iron stake that is located at the NE intersection point of W 12th St and N
Caswell Ave, from the BEGINNING point so located running thence with the
northern right of way of N Caswell Ave N 21-30-40 W 50.00 feet to an existing
iron rebar; thence leaving said right of way, N 68-28-36 E 123.13 feet to an
existing iron stake; thence S 21-42-57 E 50.00 feet to an iron stake; thence, S
68-28-35 W 123.31 feet to the point of BEGINNING; containing 0.14 acres.
Section 3. Notice of the public hearing shall be published once in the State
Port Pilot, a newspaper having general circulation in the City of Southport,
North Carolina, at least ten (10) days prior to the date of the public hearing.
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
 
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
AGENDA 
   4.   Resolution Authorizing Sale of Surplus Property by Private Negotiation
and Sale
   Public Works Director Fox reported that the Public Works Department has four
(4) items that are not useable for any city function and he asked for them to
be declared surplus and sold by private negotiation and sale. Director Fox
stated that the items would be advertised for sale.
   Alderman Pukenas motioned, second by Alderman Sharkey to adopt the
Resolution Authorizing Sale of Surplus Property by Private Negotiation and
Sale.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
 
RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING SALE OF SURPLUS PROPERTY BY PRIVATE NEGOTIATION AND SALE
WHEREAS, the City of Southport owns equipment that has become surplus for its
current needs; and
WHEREAS, all of said property is valued at less than $ 30,000.00 for one item
or group of items; and
WHEREAS, North Carolina General Statute § 160A-266 permits the city to sell
such property by private sale, upon authorization by the Board of Aldermen at a
regular meeting and notice to the public; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen is convened in a regular meeting;
NOW THEREFORE, THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN OF THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT RESOLVES THAT:
   1.   The Board of Aldermen authorizes the City Manager to sell by private
sale the following items of surplus property:
      ∙   1999 8 KW Stand-By Generator, 16 HP Vanguard, Air Cooled, Type: LP
Gas, 100 AMP, ATS 2008
         o   Does run
      ∙   Unknown Age Kubota RC60 Mower, 18 HP Diesel, Transmission, Hydro 4 x
4
         o   Runs
      ∙   1987 Snap-On Vehicle Lift, YA 7000
      ∙   Unknown Age Side Walk Edger, 5 HP
         o   Runs?
   2.   The City Clerk shall publish a notice summarizing this resolution and
no sale may be executed pursuant to this resolution until at least 10 days
after the date that the notice is published.
DATED, this 14th day of March, 2019.
                     /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
 
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
   5.   Budget Amendment #6; Fire Department
   Finance Director Trexler explained that the Fire Department has obtained
$371,256.42 from the acquisition of the Caswell Beach Fire Department. She
asked that the Budget Amendment be approved to appropriate the funds for use by
the Fire Department.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to approve Budget
Amendment #6.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1660.gif]
Budget Amendment
Fiscal Year 2018-2019
Budget Amendment #6
WHEREAS the City of Southport Fire Department has received funds from the
Caswell Beach Fire Department acquisition, and the funds need to be
appropriated for expenditures of maintaining the departments equipment and
volunteers, and
WHEREAS there are sufficient funds in the General Fund, and
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2018-2019 needs to be amended to
reflect the additional appropriation of funds and expenditures to run the fire
department;
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2018-2019 shall be
amended as follows:
                                Increases
Revenues Appropriated:
   10-11-3434-0100 Fire District Fees            $ 371,256.42
   Total Appropriated
   Expenditures
   General Fund Expenditures
   10-11-4340-5800 Other Capital Outlay            $371,256.42
 
   Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, March 14,
2019,
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor      
/s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
_____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   6.   Fire Department Budget Review
   Chief Drew provided clarity regarding a situation that was recently brought
up in the State Port Pilot regarding city employees being volunteers for the
department and responding to calls. Emphasizing that Southport is a community
of volunteers, Chief Drew named some of the past/present fire volunteers who
were/are city employees
      ∙    Mr. Otto Hickman      Police Chief & Fire Chief
      ∙    Jack Hickman      Police Chief & Fire Captain
      ∙    Walker Aldridge      Finance Director & Fire Captain
      ∙    Harold Aldridge      Alderman & Fire Chief
      ∙    Robert Howard      Alderman & 19 years on Fire Dept.
      ∙    Joe Medlin         P & R Director & Fire Lieutenant
      ∙    Mark Southerland      Grounds Maintenance Crew Leader (30 years)
                     & 34 years with the Fire Department
      ∙    Todd Coring         Police Chief & Assistant Fire Chief
   Chief Drew pointed out that in 1995 Mayor Bill Crow and the Board of
Aldermen adopted a resolution permitting city employees that were fire
department volunteers to respond to calls. Chief Drew emphasized that city
employees are not paid a stipend for responding to a fire call while working.
He added that extra credit has been given to the Southport Fire Department by
Insurance Services Office (ISO) for permitting city employees to respond to
fire calls, which ultimately lowers citizens' insurance costs.
   Chief Drew presented the proposed Fire Department 2019/2020 Budget. He
stated that the budget is due to Brunswick County by March 10 in order to begin
the Fire Fee Rate Setting process. Chief Drew pointed out that the budget is
balanced on the projected revenues for the upcoming fiscal year and there is no
fire fee increase requested. He stated that the County requires the Southport
Board of Aldermen review the budget prior to submittal to the County.
   Chief Drew reported that he would be requesting some full-time members, to
provide for better coverage, without the need for any additional funding. He
added that some volunteer shift pay would be eliminated.
   Responding to a question by Alderman Spencer, Chief Drew stated that there
are currently three (3) city employees who are also fire department volunteers.
   Alderman Sharkey asked about job descriptions for the proposed positions,
the City Manager's opinion on the additional employees, added work load created
for supportive city employees, and she asked to be included with the Emergency
Services Committee and the hiring process.
   Stating that he serves on the Emergency Services Committee, Alderman Spencer
stated appreciation for the Chief's efforts and for bringing the proposed
budget to the Board.
   Mayor Dove appointed Alderman Sharkey to the Emergency Services Committee.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Tucker to approve the Fire
Department 2019/2020 Budget as presented. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   7.   Animal Welfare Ordinance
   Alderman Mosteller explained that the Animal Welfare Committee held six
public meetings while revising the 22-year-old Animal Ordinance. She stated
that some of the language for the proposed ordinance came from the Brunswick
County Ordinance. She added that a draft of the Ordinance was thoroughly
reviewed by the Committee, County animal welfare services, Southport's newly
hired Animal Protective Services/Code Enforcement Officer, the School of
Government (SOG), and the City Attorney.
   Alderman Mosteller motioned, second by Alderman Sharkey to approve the
Animal Welfare Ordinance as presented.
   Discussion 
   Animal Protective Services/Code Enforcement Officer Marshall reported that
the ordinance was revised from six (6) to twenty-one (21) pages, was clearly
written, addressed rabies laws and requirements, bites, impoundment, tethering,
shelter, feral cats, Trap/Neuter/Release (TNR) programs and responsibilities of
custodians of animals. Responding to a query by Alderman Spencer, Officer
Marshall indicated that a permit is not needed for someone feeding a cat and a
clipped ear would identify a cat that had been through the TNR process.
   Alderman Sharkey asked about the proposed new licensing program. Officer
Marshall stated the launch date for the licensing program is expected in May.
   There was discussion about including the licensing fee amount in the
Ordinance. City Attorney Isenberg suggested the fee be included in the City's
Fee Schedule with a stipulation that the Board of Aldermen shall set the fee.
   Alderman Mosteller amended her motion, second by Alderman Sharkey to include
that the license fee shall be set by the Board of Aldermen and listed in the
Fee Schedule. Unanimous vote; motion carried. (Ordinance on file in the Clerk's
Office)
   8.   Water Distribution & Wastewater Collection AIA Projects
   City Planner Lloyd explained that the City was granted a $52,000 NCDEQ
Division of Water Infrastructure Grant to assess and digitally map the City's
water distribution system and develop an asset management plan which would
enable the City to establish a CIP and budget for identified areas needing
rehabilitation and replacement. He stated that Cape Fear Council of Governments
would provide the services and begin immediately in order to complete the
project by the June 2020 grant deadline. He indicated that the City would be
required to match 20%, $13,000.
   Alderman Tucker motioned, second by Alderman Powell to approve the Service
Agreement with the Cape Fear Council of Governments. Unanimous vote; motion
carried. (agreement on file in the Clerk's office)
COMMITTEE REPORTS
   Alderman Sharkey reported that the Rate Committee had been working on the
Street Lighting Policy with Brunswick Electric Membership Corp (BEMC). She
stated that she would provide a draft policy to committee members and schedule
a meeting to finalize the policy.
   Alderman Mosteller repeated the call to attend the Monday, March 18, 12:00 -
2:00 and 4:00 - 7:00 Open House at the Community Building to receive public
input on the design for Taylor Park.
PROJECT REPORT
   City Manager Oakley reported that road closures would occur over night the
week of March 18 in order to make repairs to hurricane damaged infrastructure
along Howe Street.
   City Manager Oakley reported that University of North Carolina graduate
students are working on plans for the former City Hall, 201 E. Moore Street. He
added that the City's grant writer had identified potential grant funding
towards restoration of the building.
   City Manager Oakley announced that a scoping meeting, pertaining to the City
Dock, would be held Friday, March 29th with all regulatory agencies
STAFF REPORTS – provided in Agenda packet
   Public Works Director Fox announced that free mulch was available at Taylor
Field.
   Tourism Director Jones announced that there would be free shredding services
on Saturday, April 6, 12:00 - 4:00 at Taylor Field.
   Police Chief Coring spoke about the Safe Golf Cart Campaign, traffic issues
at the elementary school, coordination with the Animal Welfare Officer and new
hires.
   Parks & Recreation Director Hemphill emphasized the on-line surveys for the
Taylor Field Design and the public discussion Monday, March 18 in the Community
Building.
   Fire Chief Drew reported that a recent Safety Day was well attended, fire
headquarters had been certified a Child Safety Seat Checkpoint, the EMS
Auxiliary sold 130 flats of strawberries as a fundraiser, a spaghetti plate
fundraiser would be held by the end of the month and arrangements continued for
the Never Forget 911 Memorial to visit during the 4th of July Festival.
BOARD COMMENTS
   Alderman Spencer announced that Free Dump Week would be held in April.
   Alderman Sharkey stated that she attended an open house held by the Kiwanis
Club and she expressed gratitude to them for all they do for children and the
elderly.
   Pointing out that she had served on the Planning Board, Alderman Sharkey
addressed comments claiming the Board of Aldermen removed the Planning Board
from the review process for public property projects. She pointed out that the
relevant section in the Unified Development Ordinance (UDO), Article 3, Section
3-10: Public Facilities, was identified for removal by the current UDO review
committee because the practice is nonessential and has not been followed since
adoption of the UDO in 2004.
   Alderman Tucker thanked the pastor and membership of the AME Church for the
opportunity to attend the recognition of Dr. William Flythe.
ADJOURN
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to adjourn the March
14, 2019 meeting. Unanimous vote; motion carried. Meeting adjourned at 7:07
p.m.
   
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
APRIL 2, 2019
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN       SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
FIRE HEADQUARTERS - EOC APRIL 2, 2019
1011 N. HOWE STREET     SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Karen Mosteller, Lora Sharkey, Jim Powell,
            Marc Spencer, Rick Pukenas, Robert Tucker
STAFF PRESENT:      Bruce Oakley, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Todd Coring, Police Chief
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   Tyler Johnson, Deputy Fire Chief
   David Fox, Public Works Director
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
A)   Call to Order – 5:00 p.m.
Mayor Dove called the special meeting to order at 5:00 p.m. He stated the
purpose of the meeting was to discuss the agreement for funding of the
Wastewater Expansion Agreement and Sewer Service Agreement with Brunswick
County and to adopt a resolution Designating an Applicant’s Agent for FEMA
Disaster Relief.
B)   Invocation
Chief Drew gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Mayor Dove led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
AGENDA
   1.   Discussion of Agreement for Funding of Wastewater Expansion Agreement
and Sewer Service Agreement
   City Manager Oakley explained that the City currently has a sewer service
agreement with Brunswick County for 750,000 gallons per day of sewer flow
capacity. He added that the City also has an agreement to fund expansion of one
of the County’s treatment facilities and to upgrade the transmission lines. He
stated that the City is proceeding with a loan from the North Carolina Clean
Water State Revolving Fund for $26M to pay for the expansion and upgrades.
   City Manager Oakley reported that the project was reevaluated, a third-party
engineer was hired to review the City’s options and based on their findings,
the City could likely build its own plant with a capacity of 1M gallons per day
with the ability to expand for the same cost. He pointed out that long term
operations and maintenance costs of operating a city owned plant would be
higher, but the City would not be responsible for funding the expansion of the
County’s plant. He emphasized that the City would likely exceed the 750,000
gallons of capacity before the funding agreement term was over.
   City Manager Oakley noted that the City would need to work with the County
to ensure a smooth transition if the Board decided to construct a plant. He
pointed out that the City owns 400 acres of land near Military Ocean Terminal
Sunny Point where the plant could be located.
   Pointing out that Southport would sooner rather than later reach the
750,000-gallon wastewater capacity guaranteed by the County, Alderman Powell
commented on upcoming developments in the Southport sewer service area.
Alderman Tucker agreed and stated that in 20 years’ time, an additional County
plant expansion would be needed. He added that the Southport wastewater
treatment plant site would be capable of sustaining 2M gallons of capacity.
   Aldermen Pukenas and Spencer stated their support for Southport building its
own wastewater treatment plant and having 100% ownership.
   Aldermen Powell and Tucker remarked on the benefits of using purple pipe in
new developments.
   Alderman Sharkey stated she was pleased that the city decided to review the
proposal. She pointed out that there are Aldermen on the Board with the
industry experience who were able to ask the right kind of questions and
confirm that the City had done an in-depth evaluation. She shared her opinion
that the best course of action for the City is to construct its own wastewater
treatment plant.
   Noting that a thorough review had been made of all options, Alderman
Mosteller agreed with fellow Board members and supported building a wastewater
treatment plant.
   Mayor Dove commented that during discussions with County representatives,
Alderman Tucker inquired about membership for Southport in a regional
wastewater treatment area and was told a membership would not be an option for
Southport.
   Alderman Tucker motioned, second by Alderman Powell that the Board of
Aldermen take the necessary steps to terminate the Sewer Service Agreement
dated June 8, 2017, and the Interlocal Agreement for Funding of Wastewater
Plant Expansion dated July 12, 2018, between the City and Brunswick County;
that the City Manager notify the County of the City’s intent to terminate said
agreements; and that the City Manager be authorized to negotiate the terms of
an exit agreement with the County and report to the Board the terms of said
agreement for consideration by the Board.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   2.   Designation of Applicant’s Agent for FEMA Disaster Relief
City Manager Oakley explained that a resolution needs to be adopted that
designates an applicant’s agent for release of FEMA disaster relief payments.
He stated that he and the Finance Director, Melanie Trexler would be the
Primary and Secondary Agents respectively. He added that a reimbursement in the
amount of $365,129 will be forthcoming after submittal of the resolution and
additional reimbursements are being pursued.
Alderman Mosteller motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to adopt the Resolution
Designation of Applicant’s Agent. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
ADJOURN
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to adjourn the special
meeting. Meeting adjourned at 5:16 p.m.
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
APRIL 11, 2019
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING APRIL 11, 2019
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Rick Pukenas, Jim Powell, Lora Sharkey, Karen Mosteller,
            Marc Spencer,   Robert Tucker
STAFF PRESENT:      Bruce Oakley, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
   Todd Coring, Police Chief
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   David Fox, Public Works Director
   Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
   Randy Jones, Tourism Director
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   Thomas Lloyd, Planner
   Kate Marshall, Animal Protective Services/Code Enforcement Officer
A)   Call to Order - 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Dove called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Tucker welcomed everyone, and Chief Drew gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Tucker led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Public Comment
   Ms. Judith Gooch, 5010 Seaward Court, Rivermist Subdivision, spoke about a
large specimen Live Oak tree in a commercial parcel of Dutchman Town Center.
She pointed out that the private property was for sale and residents of
Rivermist were concerned about the tree.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Dove stated, "If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time."
E)   Approval of Agenda   
   Mayor Dove asked for the following additions to the Agenda:
   ∙    Approval of Minutes for April 2, 2019 Special Meeting to Consent Agenda
as 1(b)
   ∙    Budget Amendment #7
   ∙    Discussion concerning the City Dock
   Alderman Tucker motioned, second by Alderman Powell to approve the Agenda as
amended. Unanimous vote; motion carried
F)   Announcements
   Alderman Pukenas thanked the 350 people that volunteered during the 3rd
annual Day of Service.
   Alderman Pukenas thanked Downtown Southport Inc. (DSI) for sponsoring a free
shredding event during the Day of Service. He added that 180 people took
advantage of the service.
   Alderman Pukenas announced:
   ∙    Spring Clean Up Week, April 15th through April 19th, 7:00 a.m. - 7:00
p.m. Stevens Park
   ∙    Easter Egg Hunt, Sunday, April 14, Franklin Square Park, 3:00 p.m.
   ∙    Recycling pick up schedule changed to alternating weeks for the West &
East side of town. West side of town began April 8
   ∙    Spring Festival, April 19th & 20th, 10:00 - 4:00, Franklin Square Park
   ∙    Old Jail now open Wednesday & Saturday, 12:00 - 3:00
Alderman Spencer stated appreciation to all that volunteered for the Day of
Service. Additionally, he announced that Riley Ransom was recognized as Officer
of the Year by the Southport Rotary Club.
   Alderman Sharkey announced a Maritime Museum fund raising event, Outdoor
Yoga, to be held Saturday, April 13th, 8:00 a.m. at the W. Bay Street Yoga
dock.
   Alderman Mosteller expressed special thanks to city staff for their
assistance before, during and after the 3rd annual Day of Service.
   Alderman Mosteller announced:
   ∙    Monthly Beautification Committee, This Is Our Town clean up, Saturday,
May 4
   ∙    Arbor Day Celebration, April 26, 11:00 a.m., Keziah Park, Jim McKee,
Old Brunswick Town Director as guest speaker
   ∙    John Smith Cemetery, Gullah Geechee event, April 24, 4:00 p.m.,
Community Building
   ∙    Section week of April, Dog Bite Prevention Week
G)   Special Recognition
   Recognizing Forestry Committee co-chairs Clay Fairley and Scott Len,
Alderman Mosteller read an Arbor Day Resolution proclaiming April 26, 2019 as
Arbor Day in Southport. The Resolution was presented to Mr. Len and Mr.
Fairley.
ARBOR DAY RESOLUTION
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2038.jpg]
WHEREAS, in 1972, J. Sterling Morton proposed to the Nebraska Board of
Agriculture that a special day be set aside for the planting of trees, and
WHEREAS, this holiday called Arbor Day, was first observed with the planting of
more than a million trees in Nebraska, and
WHEREAS, Arbor Day is now observed throughout the nation and the world, and
WHEREAS, trees can reduce the erosion of our precious topsoil by wind and
water, cut heating and cooling costs, moderate the temperature, clean the air,
produce life-giving oxygen, and provide habitat for wildlife, and
WHEREAS, trees are a renewable resource giving us paper, wood for our homes,
fuel for our fires, and beautify our community, and
WHEREAS, trees in our city increase property values, enhance the economic
vitality of business areas, and beautify our community, and
WHEREAS, trees wherever they are planted are a source of joy and spiritual
renewal.
NOW, THEREFORE, I J.V. Dove, Mayor of the City of Southport, NC, and the Board
of Aldermen, do hereby proclaim April 26, 2019 as ARBOR DAY in the City and
urge all citizens to celebrate and support efforts to protect our trees and
woodlands, and
FURTHER, I urge all citizens to plant trees to gladden the heart and promote
the well-being of this and future generations.
DATED, this 11th day of April, 2019
                        /s/ J.V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
   Renee Spencer, State Port Pilot
   Mayor Dove recognized Ms. Renee Spencer of the State Port Pilot for her
reporting coverage of the Southport Board of Aldermen for the past four (4)
years. He pointed out that Ms. Spencer has been awarded numerous awards and
accolades in her profession and is furthering her career with the Wilmington
Star-News. The Aldermen joined Mayor Dove in presenting a Resolution of
Appreciation to Ms. Spencer.
City of Southport
Resolution of Appreciation
WHEREAS, Renee Spencer has worked as a reporter for the State Port Pilot for 6
years; and
WHEREAS, her primary responsibility was covering the City of Southport; and
WHEREAS, Renee has spent countless hours attending meetings of the Board of
Aldermen and many other City Boards and Committees; and
WHEREAS, her coverage of City affairs has always been marked by true
professionalism and integrity; and
WHEREAS, Renee's reporting has served as an informational conduit between the
City and its citizens, keeping them informed while upholding the highest level
of journalistic principles; and
WHEREAS, presentation of this resolution represents an opportunity for the
Mayor and Board of Aldermen to thank Renee and offer her their best wishes in
her future endeavors.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that Mayor J. V. Dove and the Board of Aldermen
for the City of Southport recognize Renee Spencer for her dedicated and
distinguished service to the City.
Presented this 11th day of April, 2019.
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to approve the Consent
Agenda. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   1.   a.   Approval of Minutes for March 14, 2019 Regular Meeting - approved
      b.   Approval of Minutes for April 2, 2019 Special Meeting - approved
   2.   Adoption of 2019 Local Government Agencies General Records Retention
and
   Disposition Schedule - approved
   3.   Approval of Road Closure Request, 1 Mile and 5 Miles Runs May 25, 2019
- approved
AGENDA
   4.   Public Hearing: Annexation; Lot 1 & Lot 2, Block 6, Southport Heights,
W. 12th Street and N. Caswell Avenue
   Alderman Sharkey motioned, second by Alderman Powell to open Public Hearing.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Responding to a query by Mr. Clay Fairley, Attorney Isenberg stated that the
City was obligated to provide sewer service to annexed areas.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Sharkey to close Public
Hearing.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Tucker to adopt the Ordinance
for Annexation. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
AN ORDINANCE TO EXTEND THE CORPORATE LIMITS OF THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT, NORTH
CAROLINA
   WHEREAS, the City of Southport has been petitioned under G.S.160A-31 to
annex the area described below; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen has by resolution directed the City Clerk to
investigate the sufficiency of the petition; and
   WHEREAS, the City Clerk has certified the sufficiency of the petition and a
public hearing on the question of this annexation was held at the Southport
Community Building at 6:00 p.m. on April 11, 2019, after due notice by
publication on March 27, 2019; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen finds that the petition meets the
requirements of G.S. 160A-31;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport, North Carolina that:
   Section 1. By virtue of the authority granted by G.S. 160A-31, the following
described territory is hereby annexed and made part of the City of Southport as
of April 11, 2019:
Being all of that certain parcel(s) or tract of land lying and being in
Smithville Township, Brunswick County, North Carolina and being more
particularly described as follows:
METES AND BOUNDS FOR LOT 1 BLOCK 6 SOUTHPORT HEIGHTS
BEGINNING at an iron stake which is located at the NE intersection point of W
12th Street and N Caswell Avenue, from the BEGINNING point so located running
thence with the eastern right of way of N Caswell Ave N 21-30-40 W 50.00 feet
to an iron stake; thence leaving the said right of way, N 68-28-35 E 123.31
feet to an existing iron stake; thence, S 21-42-57 E 50.14 feet to an existing
iron pipe in the northern right of way of W 12th St; thence, running with said
right of way S 68-32-27 W 123.48 feet to the point of BEGINNING; containing
00.14 acres.
METES AND BOUNDS FOR LOT 2 BLOCK 6 SOUTHPORT HEIGHTS
BEGINNING at an iron stake that is located in the eastern right of way of N
Caswell Ave, said BEGINNING point is also located N 21-30-40 W 50.00 feet from
an iron stake that is located at the NE intersection point of W 12th St and N
Caswell Ave, from the BEGINNING point so located running thence with the
northern right of way of N Caswell Ave N 21-30-40 W 50.00 feet to an existing
iron rebar; thence leaving said right of way, N 68-28-36 E 123.13 feet to an
existing iron stake; thence S 21-42-57 E 50.00 feet to an iron stake; thence, S
68-28-35 W 123.31 feet to the point of BEGINNING; containing 0.14 acres.
   Section 2. Upon and after April 11, 2019, the above described territory and
its citizens and property shall be subject to all debts, laws, ordinances and
regulations in force in the City of Southport and shall be entitled to the same
privileges and benefits as other parts of the City of Southport. Said territory
shall be subject to municipal taxes according to G.S. 160A-58.10.
   Section 3. The Mayor of the City of Southport shall cause to be recorded in
the office of the Register of Deeds of Brunswick County, and in the office of
the Secretary of State at Raleigh, North Carolina, an accurate map of the
annexed territory, described in Section 1 above, together with a duly certified
copy of this ordinance. Such a map shall also be delivered to the County Board
of Elections, as required by G.S. 163A-1594.
Adopted this the 11th day of April, 2019.
                     City of Southport
                     /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
   5.   Approval of PARTF Grant Application for Taylor Field
Director Hemphill provided the Board with copies of the Taylor Field Master
Plan.
Mr. Michael Norton, McGill Associates, P.A. gave an overview of the project:
   ∙    Two (2) public workshops were held March 18; 150 people participated
   ∙    360 people responded to a web-based survey
   ∙    Strong survey desire for a dog park, open space preservation and a
passive park
   ∙    A Master Plan was developed
   ∙    Phase I to include 20 parking spaces and three (3) park elements:
   1.   Walking trail with fitness stations connecting to existing sidewalks
   2.   Dog park
   3.   Picnic Shelter
   ∙    Future phase may include:
   1.   Trail to Kingsley Park and Lowe White Park
   2.   Playground
   3.   Restrooms
Mr. Norton reviewed the estimated cost, $488,488, and the appraised land value
to be used towards the city's matching portion.
Alderman Mosteller motioned, second by Alderman Tucker:
   1.   That the City of Southport shall apply for the Part(F) Grant and hereby
approves the Part(F) Grant Application;
   2.   That the City hereby approves and adopts the Basic Facts & Assurances;
   3.   That the City hereby approves the site plan as presented; and
   4.   That the City hereby approves the Master Plan Document;
   5.   That the City hereby adopts the Capital Project Ordinance - Phase I
Alderman Spencer thanked Ms. Ginger Harper and family for the generous donation
of the property for development as a city park.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   6.   Waterfront Stabilization
City Manager Oakley provided drawings of preliminary concept options for
shoreline stabilization along a portion of Southport's waterfront. He noted
that according to the engineer, Option 3, Breakwaters with Stems & Sand Fill/
Revetment/Sill with Marsh, would be the best long-term approach to stabilize
the waterfront, create beaches and provide more recreational opportunities.
Manager Oakley pointed out that the plan would be further reviewed in future
Board and public meetings.
Pointing out that Option 3 depicts the most natural look to the city's
waterfront and most resilient to storms, Alderman Sharkey motioned, second by
Alderman Pukenas to endorse Option 3.
Discussion
Alderman Powell asked to see areas where the proposed option had been put into
place. City Manager to pursue locations for viewing.
Vote: Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   7.   Creation of Deputy Finance Director/Financial Specialist Position
Pointing out that the City's annual audit has been late for numerous years,
City Manager Oakley explained that the Finance Department is overwhelmed, and
he would like to add a Financial Specialist position that could also be
appointed Deputy Finance Director.
FINANCIAL SPECIALIST
General Statement of Duties
Performs difficult professional work in the accounting and fiscal services and
activities for the City.
Distinguishing Features of the Class
An employee in this class leads and participates in the accounting of revenues
and expenditures for the City. Work involves leading and participating in
accounts payable, accounts receivable, general ledger preparation and
maintenance, payroll functions, bank reconciliation, fixed assets and general
financial reporting. The role serves as lead worker, acts in the absence of the
Finance Director, and provides technical guidance to other finance staff. The
employee must exercise judgment and initiative in identifying and resolving the
daily problems and activities of the fiscal control system. Work is performed
in accordance with established finance procedures, local ordinances and North
Carolina General Statutes governing the responsibilities of local government
fiscal operations under the North Carolina Fiscal Control Act. The employee
functions with decision-making authority and performs responsibilities with a
degree of independence, receiving instruction and advice only on matters
involving significant departure from established policy, assisting the Finance
Director in any phase of the fiscal operations. Work is performed under the
supervision of the Finance Director and is evaluated through conferences,
performance appraisals, reports, and an independent audit of financial records.
Duties and Responsibilities
Essential Duties and Tasks
Leads and participates in the preparation of accounts payable and payroll,
general ledger, budgetary accounting, financial reporting, bank reconciliation,
fixed assets, miscellaneous invoicing and related tasks; provides guidance as
needed to staff engaged in accounting activities ensuring adherence to
established policies, procedures, and standards; assists and advises
subordinates, as necessary, resolving problems as non-routine situations arise;
performs fixed assets accounting.
Leads and assists with daily priorities for the operation of the accounting
functions and activities for the office; guides workflow and adjustment of work
among the staff as needed.
Provides back up for the payroll function including review and input of time
sheets; generation of checks and payroll reports and records; ensures proper
remittance of federal and state taxes; ensures payment of payroll vendors.
Provides back up for accounts payable and utility billing; may be designated as
lead for delinquent collection of utility bills, taxes, and other revenues;
administers Debt Setoff program.
Updates daily cash collections to general ledger; posts occupancy taxes;
ensures updates to utility accounts for returned checks or bank drafts; may
process bank drafts for utility accounts.
   Analyzes, tabulates and completes a wide variety of state, federal and other
records and reports; monitors capital and grant projects to insure timely
reimbursement requests are submitted and projects are closed out in a timely
manner; performs grant accounting and administration.
   Assists the Manager and Finance Director with budget development including
revenue calculation from ad valorem tax valuations; prepares sample tax rate
collections, projected payroll expenses, and provides other assistance as
needed.
   Assists other municipal departments with accounting related questions and
procedures.
       Interprets and enforces current fiscal policies and practices for the
department.
   Assembles statistical, tax, and accounting data on request.
   Assists the auditors during the annual audit of the financial records.
   Generates special reports and statements for management as requested.
Additional Job Duties
   Maybe appointed Deputy Finance Officer by the Board of Alderman.
   Check signer at the bank in absence of Finance Director.
   Performs related duties as required.
Recruitment and Selection Guidelines
Knowledges, Skills, and Abilities
   Considerable knowledge of professional accounting concepts, principles, and
practices as applied to local government.   
   Considerable knowledge of North Carolina General Statutes, laws, rules,
regulations and of local ordinances governing Town financial practices and
procedures.
   Considerable knowledge of the principles and practices of public finance
administration and budgetary processes in the public sector.
   Considerable knowledge of the principles and practices of statistics with
particular reference to their application to financial and operational
activities.
   Knowledge of the application of information technology especially as it
related to financial packages, spreadsheets and related technology.
   General knowledge of the current literature, trends, and developments in the
fields of governmental accounting and public finance administration.
   Skill in collaborative conflict resolution and performance coaching and
feedback.
       Ability to plan, organize, assign and assist with the work of employees
in the specialized field of accounting in an automated environment.
   Ability to analyze and interpret financial and accounting records and
complete financial statements from such records.
   Ability to establish and maintain effective working relationships with the
public, department heads, governmental officials, and with other employees as
necessitated by work assignments.
   Ability to operate office technology.
   Ability to express ideas effectively both orally and written.
   Ability to prepare and submit accurate, clear, complete, and concise
reports.
Physical Requirements
   Must be able to perform the basic life operational skills of stooping,
kneeling, crouching, reaching, walking, lifting, fingering, talking, hearing,
sitting, and repetitive motions.
   Must be able to perform sedentary work, exerting up to 10 pounds of force
occasionally and/or a negligible amount of force to lift, carry, push, pull or
otherwise move objects.
   Must possess the visual acuity to prepare and analyze data and statistics,
perform accounting tasks, do extensive reading, and operate a computer
terminal.
Desirable Education and Experience
   Graduation from a four-year college or university with a degree in
accounting including progressively responsible professional experience in
public sector accounting and experience with spreadsheet software; or an
equivalent combination of education and experience.
   8.   Resolution Authorizing Sale of Surplus Property by Private Negotiation
and Sale
Responding to a query by Aldermen Powell, Chief Drew stated that four (4) of
the surplus items were acquired with the consolidation of the Caswell Beach/
Yaupon Fire Department and had exceeded their useful life.
Alderman Pukenas motioned, second by Alderman Powell to authorize the sale of
surplus property by private negotiation and sale.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING SALE OF SURPLUS PROPERTY BY PRIVATE NEGOTIATION AND SALE
WHEREAS, the City of Southport owns equipment that has become surplus for its
current needs; and
WHEREAS, all of said property is valued at less than $ 30,000.00 for one item
or group of items; and
WHEREAS, North Carolina General Statute § 160A-266 permits the city to sell
such property by private sale, upon authorization by the Board of Aldermen at a
regular meeting and notice to the public; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen is convened in a regular meeting;
NOW THEREFORE, THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN OF THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT RESOLVES THAT:
   1.   The Board of Aldermen authorizes the City Manager to sell by private
sale the following items of surplus property:
   ∙    1984 Utility Van (old Fire Prevention Unit) stored at former WWTP
   ∙    1987 Ford Pumper/Tanker # 368
   ∙    1989 Spartan Pumper # 377
   ∙    1992 Freightliner Emergency Support Unit # 395
   ∙    1995 Jeep # 390
   ∙    2004 Dodge Pickup Truck # 391
   ∙    Out of Date Air Bottles, Air Packs, Ladders and other miscellaneous
equipment
   2.   The City Clerk shall publish a notice summarizing this resolution and
no sale may be executed pursuant to this resolution until at least 10 days
after the date that the notice is published.
DATED, this 11th day of April, 2019.
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk               
   9.   Budget Amendment #7
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Spencer to approve Budget
Amendment #7 as presented. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Budget Amendment
Fiscal Year 2018-2019
Budget Amendment #7
WHEREAS the City of Southport has incurred expenditures for the cleanup and
repairs to the city's infrastructure and needs to appropriate additional fund
balance to cover these expenditures; and
WHEREAS there are sufficient funds in the General Fund, and Water and Sewer
fund; and
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2018-2019 needs to be amended to
reflect the additional appropriation of funds and expenditures to complete
these projects;
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2018-2019 shall be
amended as follows:
                                 Increases
Revenues:       
Appropriated Fund Balance
10-00-3420-0200 FEMA Reimbursement               $ 273,848
10-00-3991-0000 General Fund                     $ 308,268
                          Total          $ 582,116
Expenditures
General Fund Expenditures
10-01-4120-4400 Contract Services Admin Debris Clean up          $ 191,068
10-05-4511-2600 Street Department Street and Drainage Repairs      $ 331,387
10-00-4110-9700 Contingency                      $ 59,661
Total General Fund Expenditures                       $582,116
Water & Sewer Expenditures Transfer from Contingency
31-91-7130-3506   Sewer System Repairs               $ 150,000   
31-91-7130-4400 Contract Services                       180,000
31-91-7130-9700 Contingency                       (330,000)
                                        -0-
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, April 11,2019
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor   
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk               
   10.   City Dock Discussion
City Manager Oakley provided design options for the City Dock.
Alderman Pukenas emphasized the need to get the permit process moving forward.
Alderman Sharkey pointed out that after discussions with the Department of
Marine Fisheries, it was clear that they were not favorable towards any kind of
slips towards the marsh area. She discussed the challenges of getting boat
slips, dredging, spoil disposal, who would get the slips, and for how long. She
stated her mindset was to provide recreation for as many people as possible and
she suggested a floating dock within the City's property for the Crab Derby,
programs through the Maritime Museum, casting nets, enjoying nature and other
low-key activities.
Alderman Mosteller suggested the consultant submit a permit for the most that
could be done on the site. She also suggested scheduling a public meeting for
citizens to review the three concepts. She pointed out that approximately
$9,000 had been donated towards the project.
   Responding to a query by Alderman Pukenas, City Manager Oakley stated that a
dredge application runs concurrently with a CAMA permit. He added that a dredge
application must be submitted nine to 12 months prior to dredging and a
designated spoil site is required.
   Alderman Pukenas favored the idea of changing from boat slips to a multi-
purpose floating dock. He stated his opinion that a concept is irrelevant until
a spoil site can be identified for the dredging material.
   City Manager Oakley was requested to pursue scheduling another meeting with
NCDOT regarding dredging.
   Alderman Tucker motioned, second by Alderman Sharkey to table the discussion
until the next regularly scheduled meeting and to receive an update and
recommendation from staff.
Discussion
   Alderman Mosteller repeated that she would like to hold a public meeting
Tuesday, April 30, 6:00 p.m. for the public to review the three concepts.
   Alderman Sharkey stated that she would be willing to attend a public
information session with Alderman Mosteller.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
- None
PROJECT REPORT
   City Manager Oakley reported that repairs to sewer and stormwater
infrastructure are nearly complete and street paving is expected to commence
within the next few weeks.
   City Manager Oakley reported that he had met with the City's grant writer
who is submitting grants for rehabilitation of sewer components.
   City Manager Oakley reported that Brunswick County had been notified that
Southport would be terminating the sewer service agreement and building its own
wastewater treatment plant. He added that the attorneys are working on the
terms. He indicated that a request for qualifications (RFQ) had been published.
STAFF REPORTS
- provided in Agenda packet
BOARD COMMENTS
   Alderman Mosteller suggested holding a public meeting to get citizens'
thoughts about short term rentals. Mayor Dove pointed out that the School of
Government is working on guidelines for short term rentals and the City of
Wilmington has adopted rules and regulations for Air B&Bs.
   Alderman Mosteller stated she had been approached by citizens with concerns
about how the Bay Street pump station looks. Tourism Director Jones stated that
a light gray color had been chosen to paint the pump station and lattice with
plantings to be included. He added that the Beautification Committee was
assisting with the project.
   Alderman Mosteller asked Attorney Isenberg about a lawsuit against offshore
seismic testing that neighboring communities have joined as "friends." Attorney
Isenberg explained that communities in South and North Carolina had joined the
lawsuit as "Friends of the Court" in expressing support of the position of the
lawsuit and the potential economic impact.
ADJOURN
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Tucker to adjourn the April 11, 2019
meeting. Unanimous vote; motion carried. Meeting adjourned at 7:29 p.m.
 
                     /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor      
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
MAY 9, 2019
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING MAY 9, 2019
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Rick Pukenas, Jim Powell, Lora Sharkey, Karen Mosteller,
            Marc Spencer,   Robert Tucker
STAFF PRESENT:      Bruce Oakley, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
   Todd Coring, Police Chief
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   David Fox, Public Works Director
   Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
   Randy Jones, Tourism Director
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   Thomas Lloyd, Planner
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
   Mayor Dove called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
   Alderman Powell welcomed everyone, and Mayor Dove gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Powell led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Public Comment
   Ms. Lowe Davis, 504 Brunswick Street, thanked Animal Protective Services/
Code Enforcement Officer, Kate Marshall for responding quickly to a request
about conditions of Koi in a pond at a vacant residence.
   Mr. Dale McPherson, 103 S. Rhett Street, expressed his opinion that
Southport citizens have lost confidence in the Board.
   Mr. Ed Glenn, 202 N. Atlantic Avenue, echoed Mr. McPherson’s sentiments and
talked about Board decisions made, that in his opinion, have been missteps that
are jeopardizing the future.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Dove stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
E)   Approval of Agenda   
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to approve the Agenda.
Unanimous vote; motion carried
F)   Announcements
   Police Chief Coring introduced new Police Officers:
      Tony Burke, 25 years’ experience with Boiling Spring Lakes and Oak Island
Police Departments and a certified instructor in firearms, special ops, etc.
      Ken Stokes, 9 years’ experience with Shallotte and Brunswick Community
College, served in the armed forces.
      Lee Wigmore, 20 years’ experience with the New York State Police, served
in the armed forces.
      Thomas Moore, 9 years’ experience with Southport and Boiling Spring Lakes
Police Departments.
      Eric Manes, 12 years’ experience with Shallotte and Boiling Spring Lakes
Police Department, Wilmington Airport Police, and 1.5 years with Southport
Police Department
   Police Chief Coring recognized Officer Riley Ransom as Officer of the Year
for his dedication, and leadership. Chief Coring stated that Officer Ransom has
served 4 years in the Southport Police Department and is well rounded,
community oriented, and participates in the Shop-with-a-Cop and Bike Safety
Programs. Chief Coring presented Officer Ransom with a certificate.
   Alderman Pukenas announced that a fund raiser would be held for the Maritime
Museum on Friday May 10 on the Fort Johnston Garrison Lawn. He stated that
Mike’s Garage Band would be performing.
   Alderman Mosteller announced that the next Beautification Committee “This Is
Our Town” clean up would be held Saturday, June 1, beginning at 8:00 a.m. She
added that the Beautification Committee will have openings on the committee in
June.
G)   Special Recognition 
   Mayor Dove recognized the Coast Guard and presented a National Safe Boating
Week Proclamation.
NATIONAL SAFE BOATING WEEK PROCLAMATION
   For nearly 100 million Americans, boating continues to be a popular
recreational activity. From coast to coast, and everywhere in between, people
are taking to the water and enjoying time together boating, sailing, paddling
and fishing. During National Safe Boating Week, the U.S. Coast Guard and its
federal, state, and local safe boating partners encourage all boaters to
explore and enjoy America’s beautiful waters responsibly.
   Safe boating begins with preparation. The Coast Guard estimates that human
error accounts for 70 percent of all boating accidents and that life jackets
could prevent more than 85 percent of boating fatalities. Through basic boating
safety procedures – carrying lifesaving emergency distress and communications
equipment, wearing life jackets, attending safe boating courses, participating
in free boat safety checks, and staying sober when navigating – we can help
ensure boaters on America’s coastal, inland, and offshore waters stay safe
throughout the season.
   National Safe Boating Week is observed to bring attention to important life-
saving tips for recreational boaters so that they can have a safer, more fun
experience out on the water throughout the year.
   •Whereas, on average, 650 people die each year in boating-related accidents
in the U.S.; approximately 76 percent of these are fatalities caused by
drowning; and
   •Whereas, the vast majority of these accidents are caused by human error or
poor judgment and not by the boat, equipment or environmental factors; and
   •Whereas, a significant number of boaters who lose their lives by drowning
each year would be alive today had they worn their life jackets.
   Therefore, I, J. V. Dove, Mayor, City of Southport, do hereby support the
goals of the Safe Boating Campaign and proclaim May 18-24, 2019 as National
Safe Boating Week and the start of the year-round effort to promote safe
boating
Given under my signature and the seal of:
               /s/ J.V. Dove, Mayor, Southport, North Carolina
               /s/ Tyler Ford, Petty Officer, USCG Station Oak Island at the
City of: Southport, North Carolina
this day of: May 9, 2019
   Alderman Sharkey read into the record the Proclamation Recognizing May 2019
as Water Safety and Drowning Prevention Month in Southport.
Proclamation Recognizing MAY 2019 as WATER SAFETY
and DROWNING PREVENTION MONTH in SOUTHPORT, NC
WHEREAS According to the U.S. Center for Disease Control, the leading cause of
injury death among 1-4 year olds and the second leading cause of injury death
among children aged 5-9 years is drowning.
WHEREAS By our geographical location we are surrounded by natural and manmade
water sources that are beautiful but provide risks. Drowning can happen quickly
and quietly anywhere there is water. Drowning happens in bathtubs, swimming
pools, lakes, and at the ocean, even in the presence of lifeguards.  Air-filled
or foam toys, such as "water wings", "noodles", or inner tubes should not be
used in place of life jackets. These items are toys, not life jackets and are
not designed to keep swimmers safe.
WHEREAS According to the Centers for Disease Control, the following factors
influence the risk of fatal drowning: Lack of swimming ability, lack of
barriers or supervision to prevent unsupervised water access, lack of
lifeguards, swimming location, failure to wear life vests, alcohol use, and
seizure disorders.
WHEREAS Drowning can be prevented by learning to swim. Many adults and children
report that they cannot swim.  Research has shown that participation in formal
swimming lessons can reduce the risk of drowning among children aged 1 to 4
years.   However, even when children have had formal swimming lessons, constant
supervision when children are in the water and barriers, such as pool fencing
to prevent unsupervised access, are still important.
WHEREAS Seconds count—learn CPR. CPR performed by bystanders has been shown to
save lives and improve outcomes in drowning victims. The more quickly CPR is
started, the better the chance of improved outcomes.
Be It Resolved, that the Mayor and Southport Board of Aldermen on this the 9th
day of May 2019 proclaim May 2019 as Water Safety Month in the City of
Southport and urge all citizens to be diligent and safety minded when caring
for children near water.
            /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
Mayor Dove & the Aldermen recognized 30+ year City employee, Mark Southerland.
RESOLUTION Of APPRECIATION
MARK SOUTHERLAND
WHEREAS, Mark Southerland has served the City of Southport and the community
since 1988 as a City employee with the Parks & Recreation Department, Public
Works Department and a member of the Fire Department, and
WHEREAS, Mark Southerland has announced his plans to retire May 31, 2019 and is
being honored by the Board of Aldermen for his loyal and dedicated service, and
WHEREAS, the performance of his duties and responsibilities were always
characterized by his commitment in getting the job done, and
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that Mayor J.V. Dove and the Southport Board of
Aldermen express its sincere appreciation and wish Mark Southerland continued
success in life’s pursuits.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Mayor J.V. Dove and the Board of Aldermen
proclaims May 31, 2019 as “Mark Southerland Day” in the City of Southport, N.
C. and further urge all citizens to join in acknowledgment of grateful
appreciation for a lifetime of unselfish and dedicated service to the citizens
of the Southport Community.
Presented this 9th day of May 2019.
                     /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
/s/ Rick Pukenas, Mayor Pro Tem         /s/ Lora Sharkey, Alderman
/s/ Karen Mosteller, Alderman         /s/ Marc Spencer, Alderman
/s/ Robert Tucker, Alderman         /s/ Jim Powell,
Alderman                              
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Sharkey to approve the Consent
Agenda. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
1.    Approval of Minutes for April 11, 2019 Regular Meeting – approved
AGENDA
2.   Public Hearing Pursuant to N.C.G.S. 160A-364; Unified Development
Ordinance (UDO) Text Amendment Article 3,    Administrative Mechanisms, Section
3-10 Public Facilities
   City Planner Lloyd explained that staff was directed by the Board of
Aldermen to initiate a text amendment to repeal UDO Section 3-10. He stated
that the Planning Board had reviewed the amendment and voted to not recommend
approval of the proposed text amendment repealing Section 3-10. Corresponding
information was provided in the agenda packet.
   Alderman Powell stated that during the original adoption of the UDO, many of
the sections were standard boiler plate language, including Section 3-10.
   Recalling his time on the Planning Board and experience in local government,
Alderman Tucker stated that a previous consultant had recommended the section
be removed as it was not applicable to a UDO.
   City Planner Lloyd indicated that the current consultant guiding the UDO
Phase I update recommended removing the section.
   Alderman Mosteller provided her verbatim comments for inclusion in the
minutes:
      “In 2010, the Board of Aldermen initiated changes in the UDO regarding
the Planning Board’s duties and Article 3-10 was one of the items in that
discussion. After careful consideration over several months, with
recommendations from the Planning Board, in 2011, the Board of Aldermen agreed
3-10 should remain in t he UDO and only made changes to Article 3-1.”
   Alderman Tucker motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to open Public Hearing.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Mr. Ed Glenn, 202 N. Atlantic Avenue, spoke in opposition to the proposed
text amendment.
   Mr. Dale McPherson, 103 S. Rhett Street, expressed his opposition to the
proposed text amendment and his opinion that the Board of Aldermen are giving
away Southport’s heritage.
   Ms. Tish Hatem, 610-A West St. George, and Chairman of the Planning Board,
described the Planning Board’s role is to review, report, repeat and ensure
consistency with Southport’s long-range plans. She asked that the Board of
Aldermen re-consider repealing Section 3-10.
   Ms. Lowe Davis, 504 Brunswick Street, spoke in opposition to the proposed
text amendment and implored the Board of Aldermen to be a government for the
people.
   Referencing previous Planning Board and Board of Aldermen actions, Mr. Rich
Bandera, 309 Clarendon Avenue, asked the Board to table action on the proposed
text amendment.
   Pointing out that the Planning Board is the checks and balance system, Mr.
Fred Fiss, 216 Atlantic Avenue, stated disappointment in the sequence of events
pertaining to the proposed text amendment and he urged the Board to think twice
before removing Section 3-10. He noted that there is an opportunity for a new
Board in November.
   Stating she had called each Board member, Ms. Bonnie Bray, 515 Quartermaster
Drive, made an impassioned plea for the Board to table the proposed text
amendment.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Sharkey to close Public
Hearing. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
3.   Consideration of UDO Text Amendment Article 3, Section 3-10
   City Attorney Isenberg stated that the Aldermen had four (4) options;
      Table or defer consideration;
      Do nothing and leave Section 3-10 in place;
      Repeal in its entirety Section 3-10;
      Amend Section 3-10 by repealing only the part dealing with acquisition
and disposal of property
   Alderman Mosteller provided the following comments for inclusion in the
minutes:
      “I appreciate the time that the Planning Board members have spent to
consider the text amendment to remove Article 3-10 from the UDO. For land use
decisions, our Board looks to the Planning Board to review and make
recommendations in context of the Comprehensive Plan and Southport’s long-range
planning documents. A retroactive change to Article 3-10 in the UDO, to
facilitate one decision, will eliminate the procedure put in place to help
provide guidance for Board of Aldermen when considering the acquisition and
disposal of public properties. As a municipality, our stewardship of the
limited amount of publicly owned land, must first take into account, the
strategic planning documents and the future land use plans named within these
documents. Southport’s Comprehensive Plan and the Parks and Recreation and Open
Space Master Plan, both, contain long term planning goals that include the
city’s future needs for specific public land acquisitions. Southport has made a
large investment and commitment to our future by creating long-range plans.
      The discussion in our agenda packet endorsing the removal of Article 3-10
mentions that the consultant currently assisting the Planning Board’s work to
update the UDO, identified 3-10 as something that needed to be removed because
the Planning Board should not be examining and advising on the city’s financial
decisions…that alone should be the responsibility of the Board of Aldermen.
      Clearly…the Board of Aldermen does not seek financial advice from the
Planning Board.
      Article 3-10 is meant to be the first step when the Board of Aldermen
considers selling a publicly owned property. The first question to the Planning
Board is simply …
      Is the sale of this publicly owned property consistent with Southport’s
established long-range plans?
      The process of selling any public land should always include the city’s
long-range planning goals as part of the discussion.
      At the heart of Article 3-10…is not seeking recommendations from the
Planning Board regarding the city’s financial decisions, it’s to ensure that
the decisions we make about citizen owned land are consistent with the
Comprehensive Plan and the city’s strategic long-range planning documents. And
if the decision is to sell the land for solely for financial reasons, forsaking
other goals, the Board of Aldermen can make that decision.
      And to say, 3-10 should be removed because the state does not require it
as part of state statue regarding Planning Boards …We have many examples of
language in our UDO that exceed state requirements. The language in Article 3-
10 is found in the UDO documents of many small communities across North
Carolina. Many times, I have heard our city planning staff say they think the
Planning Board review process is important to provide another set of eyes.
      Updating the UDO is currently a work in progress, and is not due to be
brought to the Board of Aldermen for consideration until next year, 2020.
      At this point, to identify a change to the UDO, from the ongoing UDO
update discussions, undermines the process and the participation of the members
of the Planning Board.
      Before we throw the baby out with the bathwater, I would ask that instead
of voting tonight to eliminate or modify Article 3-10 in the UDO, we ask the
Planning Board and staff to propose updated language to clarify that the
Planning Board is not making recommendations to the Board of Aldermen regarding
financial decisions related to the acquisition and disposal of citizen owned
property.
      The real value of Article 3-10 and why the Planning Board voted
unanimously to recommend keeping 3-10 in the UDO, is to help us consider
decisions about publicly owned property in context of the Southport
Comprehensive Plan and our strategic long-range planning documents. “
   After reading aloud the proposed amendment for Section 3-10 to repeal the
part dealing with acquisition and disposal of property as recommended by staff
to the Board, Alderman Tucker motioned, second by Alderman Sharkey to adopt the
Ordinance Amending Section 3-10 of the UDO as prepared by staff to repeal the
part dealing with acquisition and disposal of property and to approve and adopt
the Statement of Consistency related thereto attached to the Ordinance.
AYE:   Aldermen Tucker, Sharkey, Powell, Spencer, Pukenas
NAY:   Alderman Mosteller
Motion passed 5-1
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING ARTICLE 3 OF THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
ORDINANCE
THAT WHEREAS, the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance and other
land use ordinances that control land development within both the City’s
incorporated areas and within its extraterritorial area; and
   WHEREAS, in order to promote the public health, safety and general welfare
and to promote the best interest of the city and community, it is necessary for
the City Board of Aldermen from time to time to consider appropriate revisions,
modifications and additions to the city’s land use ordinances; and
   WHEREAS, City Staff has prepared the proposed amendment at the instruction
of the Board of Aldermen to repeal Section 3-10 Public Facilities of Article 3
in the Unified Development Ordinance; and
   WHEREAS, the Planning Board has reviewed this matter and found that the
proposed repeal of Section 3-10 of the Unified Development Ordinance to be
inconsistent with the City of Southport CAMA Core Land Use Plan and does not
recommend its approval; and
   WHEREAS, pursuant to N. C. General Statutes and city ordinances, a public
hearing, properly noticed, was held on May 9, 2019 before the Board of Aldermen
regarding this issue; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen, after considering the public hearing
response and the recommendation of the Planning Board, and the recommendation
of staff, hereby finds that Section 3-10 of the Unified Development Ordinance
should not be repealed in its entirety but should be amended as hereinafter
stated and that this text amendment is consistent with the 2015 CAMA Land Use
Plan for the reasons stated in its Statement of Plan Consistency attached
hereto and incorporated herein; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that this amendment is reasonable
and in the public interest because this text amendment will remove language
that has no place in a development ordinance, language that is outdated and
having not been adhered to in the past, and clearing up issues that could arise
in the financial decisions of the city when it comes to the acquisition and
disposal of property.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that Section
3-10 of the Unified Development Ordinance is hereby amended to read as follows:
Upon request by the Board of Aldermen, the Planning Board shall review with the
city manager, planning director and other appropriate city officials, and then
make recommendations to the Board of Aldermen regarding (i) the extent,
location and design of public structures and facilities, and (ii) the
establishment of building lines, mapped street lines and proposals to change
existing street lines.
This amended shall be effective as of May 9th, 2019.
This, the 9th day of May, 2019.
City of Southport
                     s/s J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2046_1506x1394.jpg]
City of Southport Board of Aldermen Statement of Plan Consistency (As per NC
General Statute 160A-383)
   Zoning regulations shall be made in accordance with a comprehensive plan.
Prior to adopting or rejecting any zoning amendment, the governing board shall
adopt one of the following statements which shall not be subject to judicial
review; 1) A statement approving the zoning amendment and describing its
consistency with an adopted comprehensive plan and explaining why the action
taken is reasonable and in the public interest. 2) A statement rejecting the
zoning amendment and describing its inconsistency with an adopted comprehensive
plan and explaining why the action taken is reasonable and in the public
interest. 3) A statement approving the zoning amendment and containing at least
all of the following: 1) A declaration that the approval is also deemed an
amendment to the comprehensive plan. 2) An explanation of the change in
conditions the governing board took into account in amending the zoning
ordinance to meet the development needs of the community. 3) why the action was
reasonable and in the public interest.                                (NCGS
160A-383)
ZONING AMENDMENT:   ZA-19-0226-01
STATEMENT OF CONSISTENCY:
The City of Southport Board of Aldermen hereby finds that the zoning text
amendment amending and revising Article 3-10 of the Unified Development
Ordinance by repealing a portion thereof is consistent with the 2015 CAMA Land
Use Plan adopted November 13, 2014. The Board of Aldermen feels that the
proposed amendment to Section 3-10 is consistent with the 2015 CAMA Land Use
Plan because the powers designated to the Planning Board in Section 3-10 are
not addressed in the policies of the CAMA Land Use Plan. In order to promote
the best interest of the city, it is necessary for the Board of Aldermen to
consider appropriate revisions, modifications, and additions to the City’s Land
Development Ordinance. This is an appropriate and needed revision. The Board of
Aldermen supports and appreciates the Planning Board’s advisory status on land
use decisions that are not financial in nature. With this amendment, there will
still be public forums for important land use decisions such as annexations,
zoning map amendments, text amendments, and land use plan amendments. It is
reasonable and in the public interest because the Board of Aldermen finds that
the language restricting the Board of Aldermen’s statutory right and authority
to acquire and dispose of public property has no place in a development
ordinance. The Governing Board’s require autonomy and flexibility when making
financial decisions. Further, the provision in the ordinance was outdated, not
used, and was recommended to be taken out by staff and the consultant in the
UDO Update process. At their meeting on May 9, 2019, the Board of Aldermen
found that the text amendment is CONSISTENT with the overall goals, objectives,
and policies, of the 2015 CAMA Land Use Plan.
The statement and motion was seconded and passed May 9, 2019.
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk   
4.   Taylor Field Shelter Purchase
   Parks & Recreation Director Hemphill explained that South Brunswick High
School had purchased a gazebo last year and found that it could not be
enclosed. She stated that the gazebo was used for approximately 6 months, was
offered to the City and it could be incorporated into the Taylor Field project.
She recommended accepting the offer and pointed out that Superior Recreation of
the Carolinas had provided a proposal for a turnkey installation that included
a concrete pad and pest spraying.
   Alderman Spencer asked if the gazebo purchase would go towards the City’s
matching funds for the Part(f) grant submitted for Taylor Field. City Manager
Oakley indicated that he would clarify with Part(f), report back to the Board,
and submit a budget amendment if needed.
5.   Selection of Engineering Firm for Wastewater Treatment Plant Design
   City Manager Oakley reported that five (5) firms had submitted RFQ’s for
design of the planned construction of a new wastewater treatment plant and he
recommended selection of Hazen and Sawyer. Responding to a query by Alderman
Mosteller, City Manager Oakley stated that Hazen was chosen in part due to
references received and their focus on designs of wastewater treatment plants.
Alderman Pukenas added that Hazen’s senior hydrologist is a Southport resident,
they have designed hundreds of plants and have good relationships with State
agencies.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to authorize the City
Manager to negotiate and enter into an agreement with Hazen and Sawyer.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.  
6.   City Dock Discussion
   City Manager Oakley pointed out that a public information session was held
April 30 to review the options for replacement of the city dock destroyed
during Hurricane Matthew in 2018. He reported that the most popular option was
a fixed pier and platform with no boat slips. He noted that in order to have a
floating pier and any boat slips, dredging would be required.
   Alderman Mosteller stated that she was leaning towards the fixed pier and
platform because dredging would be required for a floating structure and
dredging slows the permitting process. She added that if the City would decide
at a later date to do boat slips or something else, permit requests could be
submitted at that time.
   Alderman Pukenas endorsed the fixed pier and platform option and stated it
would provide the best public access.
   Alderman Spencer supported the fixed pier and platform option and stated he
would like to see consideration of transient slip(s) in the future.
   Alderman Tucker motioned, second by Alderman Powell to approve Option C3.3
and proceed with using a fixed dock.
Discussion
   Alderman Sharkey expressed her opinion that an opportunity is missed for
providing a floating dock for the end for tie ups.
   Alderman Tucker amended his motion to include a kayak launch at the end of
the pier. Alderman Powell seconded the motion.
   At the suggestion of Alderman Pukenas, Alderman Tucker amended his motion to
include an expediated 30-day CAMA process. Alderman Powell seconded the motion.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
COMMITTEE REPORTS 
    None
PROJECT REPORT
   City Manager Oakley reported that repairs to sewer and stormwater
infrastructure are nearly complete and street paving is expected to commence
within the next few weeks.
   City Manager Oakley provided FY 2019-2020 Budget worksheets.
STAFF REPORTS – Provided in Agenda packet
BOARD COMMENTS
   Alderman Mosteller recognized City Planner Lloyd for receiving certification
as a Flood Plain Manager which results in insurance premium reductions for
Southport residents.
   Noting he was his friend, Alderman Spencer expressed pride in city employee
Mark Southerland for his service to the citizens of Southport.
   Alderman Sharkey reported that she had attended a meeting with a Southern
Law Council attorney regarding the status of a lawsuit pursued by South and
North Carolina communities against offshore seismic testing. She stated that
the deadline for joining as a “friend of the court” had expired and if there is
a call for localities to file, the City would be advised.   
   All Aldermen wished mothers a Happy Mother’s Day.
ADJOURN
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Tucker to adjourn the May 9,
2019 meeting. Unanimous vote; motion carried. Meeting adjourned at 7:42 p.m.
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
JUNE 13, 2019
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING JUNE 13, 2019
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor J.V. Dove
         Aldermen Rick Pukenas, Jim Powell, Lora Sharkey, Karen Mosteller,
         Marc Spencer,   Robert Tucker
STAFF PRESENT:   Bruce Oakley, City Manager
         Michele Windham, City Clerk
         Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
         Todd Coring, Police Chief
         Charles Drew, Fire Chief
         David Fox, Public Works Director
         Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
         Randy Jones, Tourism Director
         Thomas Lloyd, Planner
         Kate Marshall, Animal Protective Services/Code Enforcement Officer
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Dove called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Spencer welcomed everyone, and Mayor Dove gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Spencer led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Public Comment
   Mr. Steve Wallace addressed the Board and reported that Zimmerman Marine
partners with Southport Marina, currently employs ten (10) people, continues to
expand and provides jobs to people from the community.
   Ms. Vickie Matthews, 104 River Watch Lane, spoke in opposition to the
proposed Unified Development Ordinance (UDO) Text Amendment Article 11, Table
of Area, Yard, Density, and Height. She stated her concerns that the amendment
would allow other areas in the city to build structures over 40 ft. tall.
   City Manager Oakley asked the Board to postpone the Public Hearing and
consideration of the proposed text amendment until the July regular Board
meeting. He stated that staff discovered an error in the Public Notice and
wants to re-advertise.
   Ms. Quinn Sweeney, 900 W. West Street, spoke in opposition to the proposed
text amendment. Ms. Sweeney contended that the amendment would create an
industrialized wall and allow for 50 ft. structures at Deep Point Marina and
the River Hotel of Southport. She stated her support of the Planning Board’s
recommendation for the Board of Aldermen not to adopt the amendment.
   Ms. Lois Gandy, 5961 Spikerush Trail, expressed concerns about the speed
limit throughout downtown and how fast drivers are going, including semi-
tractor trailers. She suggested lowering the speed limit, adding crosswalks and
installing signs stating that pedestrians have the right of way.
   Noting that Howe and Moore Streets were State roads, Mayor Dove reported
that the North Carolina Department of Transportation (NCDOT) had been contacted
regarding a reduction of the speed limit and installation of additional
crosswalks. City Manager Oakley pointed out that Consent Agenda Item #3 was a
Resolution Requesting Action by the NCDOT Division of Highways to lower the
speed limit on NC 211 from Brown Street to Rhett Street.
   Ms. Jennifer Fontaine, 5223 Shipmast Way, shared a story about Burlington,
Vermont and its efforts to reduce traffic and establish a pedestrian market.
She endorsed reducing the speed limit.
   Ms. Lori Sanderlin, 204 E. Moore Street, Maritime Museum at Southport
Manager, thanked the Board for attending the unveiling of the Life Saving
Exhibit.
   Ms. Katy Menne, Curator of Education, Maritime Museum at Southport,
announced that 2019 is the 20th year anniversary of the museum being a State
museum. She thanked the City for supporting the museum and announced that the
museum and City are collaborating on a hurricane forum, June 24th, 5:00 – 7:00
p.m. in the Community Building.
   Mr. John Allen, 110 W. Nash Street, spoke in opposition to the proposed text
amendment. He stated the amendment would create exceptions for specific uses
and would undercut the height limit.
   Ms. Lowe Davis, 504 W. Brunswick, thanked the Board for postponing a
decision on the proposed text amendment and urged the Board to consider the
remarks made and to remember who they represent.
E)   Approval of Agenda
   Mayor Dove requested
Postpone Agenda Item #4, Public Hearing Pursuant to N.C.G.S. 160A-364; Unified
Development Ordinance (UDO) Text Amendment Article 11, Table of Area, Yard,
Density, and Height.
Postpone Agenda Item #8, Appointments to the Planning Board in order to allow
for interviews of the applicants.
Add Resolution in Recognition of the Sisterhood of Southport
   Alderman Tucker motioned, second by Alderman Powell to approve the Agenda as
amended. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Dove stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
   Mayor Dove recognized the Mayor of Leland in attendance.
F)   Announcements
   Alderman Pukenas announced that the Plein Air Festival would be held
Saturday, June 15. She also announced that the Juneteenth/Emancipated Day
celebration would be held Saturday, June 15 beginning at 11:00 a.m. in Caviness
Park.
   Alderman Pukenas announced that the first annual Kitchen Tour would be held
Saturday, June 15, 12:00 – 4:00 with six houses participating.
   Alderman Pukenas announced that a public meeting would be held Tuesday, June
25, 1:30 – 3:00 p.m. at the Community Building for presentation of a draft
Sunny Point Joint Land Use Study.
   Alderman Mosteller announced that the Beautification Committee would be
holding a pre-4th of July clean up of Smithville Burying Grounds Saturday, June
29 beginning at 8:30 a.m.
   Alderman Mosteller recognized Downtown Southport, Inc. and Southport Garden
Club for the planter boxes and plantings throughout downtown. She pointed out
that each season the boxes are planted and the Southport Fire Departments
waters them daily.
G)   Special Recognition 
   Recognizing Coastal Water Watch and Keep Brunswick County Beautiful,
Alderman Sharkey read into the record a resolution of commendation of
establishments participating in the Skip the Straw Program.
SOUTHPORT
RESOLUTION OF COMMENDATION AND SUPPORT OF ESTABLISHMENTS PARTICIPATING IN THE
SKIP THE STRAW PROGRAM TO PROMOTE THE REDUCTION OF PLASTIC WASTE IN OUR CITY
WHEREAS, the City of Southport is committed to being a good steward of the
coastal environment, recognizing the value of well-maintained waterfront and
unsullied water in Southport and in neighboring communities; and
WHEREAS, the economic value of clean public spaces and water is recognized as
important to residents and business owners; and
WHEREAS, the presence of plastics in the marine environment is commonly
regarded as unsightly and is known by the marine science community as dangerous
to the health and safety of marine life, including fish and shellfish enjoyed
by many locally; and
WHEREAS, plastic straws constitute an enormous number of plastic fragments that
are not recyclable and often escape into the environment; and
WHEREAS, Coastal Water Watch and Keep Brunswick County Beautiful have
implemented the nationally recognized Skip the Straw Program in Brunswick
County, and continue to promote additional methods to reduce the harm that
single-use plastic poses to our environment, fish, and birds.
BE IT RESOLVED that the Aldermen and Mayor of the City of Southport recognize
the importance of reducing the use of plastic straws and other single-use
plastics and commend the dining venues currently participating in the Skip the
Straw program and identified as Ocean Friendly Establishments.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Aldermen and Mayor of the City of Southport
encourage other businesses, as well as individuals, to participate in the Skip
the Straw program and to reduce or eliminate the use of plastic straws and
other single-use plastics.
Adopted this 13th day of June, 2019               /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk   
   Mayor Dove recognized Ms. Linda Tarro & Ms. Sharon Lightbourne of the
Sisterhood of Southport. He read and presented a Resolution in Recognition of
the Sisterhood of Southport to Ms. Tarro and Ms. Lightbourne.
Resolution
In
Recognition of the Sisterhood of Southport
WHEREAS, the Sisterhood of Southport got its beginnings in 2015, and
WHEREAS, the Sisterhood of Southport seizes opportunities throughout the
community to volunteer where help is needed, and
WHEREAS, the Sisterhood of Southport boasts over 75 volunteers, and anywhere
from 5-15 volunteers help with every effort undertaken, and
WHEREAS, the club organized a much-needed refreshing of the City of Southport
Parks and Recreation office, creating a more kid friendly space, and
WHEREAS, the club supplied Thanksgiving dinners to after school program
participants and designed and painted all hopscotch areas in the parks.
WHEREAS, since 2015 the Sisterhood of Southport has provided, created,
participated and conducted a multitude of volunteer services to assist a
diversity of entities and organizations, and
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that J. V. Dove, Mayor and the Board of Aldermen
do hereby recognize the Sisterhood of Southport for outstanding service.
ADOPTED, this the 13th day of June 2019.      
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to approve the Consent
Agenda. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   1.   Approval of Minutes for May 9, 2019 Regular Meeting; Approval of May
20, 2019 Special Meeting – approved
   2.   Resolution to Conduct Electronic Auction of Surplus Personal Property -
approved
   3.   Resolution Requesting Action by the NCDOT Division of Highways -
approved
AGENDA
   4.   Public Hearing
   Pursuant to N.C.G.S. 160A-364; Unified Development Ordinance (UDO) Text
Amendment Article 11, Table of Area, Yard, Density, and Height
   Item deferred to July Regular Meeting
   5.   Public Hearing; FY 2019-2020 Budget
   City Manager Oakley reported on the proposed FY 2019-2020 Budget:
   ∙    No tax increase recommended; .2956 cents per $100 of property
valuation.
   ∙    A revaluation year is providing an increase in revenue
   ∙    Since May 9th workshop, $100,000 of additional revenue found
   ∙    New positions included
   ∙    Receipt of FEMA reimbursements will provide for a 29% fund balance
   ∙    Sell of former WWTP property will provide for a 40% fund balance
   Alderman Sharkey motioned, second by Alderman Powell to open Public Hearing.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   No one from the public spoke.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Tucker to close Public Hearing.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Alderman Pukenas motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to hold another
budget meeting.
   Discussion
   Alderman Sharkey stated she would be interested in an additional meeting if
it could be held within the next 24 – 48 hours.
   Alderman Tucker pointed out that the budget could be adopted and amended
later.
   AYE:   Aldermen Pukenas, Mosteller, Spencer
   NAY:   Alderman Sharkey, Tucker, Powell
   Mayor Dove:   Aye
   Motion passed 4-3
   6.   Consideration of Contracts
   Public Works Director Fox explained that the contracts for consideration are
for pre-position of a vendor to handle debris, dangerous trees and hanging
limbs removal in the event of an emergency. Director Fox recommended
contracting with the low bidders.
   a.   2019-2021 Phase II – Vegetative Debris Removal/Disposal and C&D Debris
   Removal
   Primary Contract:      State Tree Services, Inc.
   Secondary Contract:      DRC Emergency Services, LLC
   b.   2019-2021 Phase II – Dangerous Trees and Hanging Limbs Removal and
Disposal
   Primary Contract:      Custom Tree Care, Inc.
   Secondary Contract:      State Tree Services, Inc.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Sharkey to approve the
contracts as recommended. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   7.   Appointment(s) to Beautification Committee
   Alderman Mosteller recognized out-going Beautification Committee Chair,
Shirley Snyder.
   Alderman Mosteller motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to re-appoint Mr.
Tom Lombardi and to appoint Ms. Nancy Disbrow, Ms. Sharon Lightbourne and Ms.
Margaret Fontaine to the Beautification Committee for two-year terms. Unanimous
vote; motion carried.
   8.   Appointments to Planning Board
   Item deferred to July Regular Meeting
   9.   Appointment(s) to Forestry Committee
   Alderman Mosteller thanked out-going forestry committee member Patrice Frink
for her service. Additionally, she announced that there is a link on the City
of Southport’s web page to the Forestry Committee’s web site.
   Alderman Mosteller motioned, second by Alderman Powell to re-appoint Ms. Peg
Ingalls to the Forestry Committee. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
   Alderman Spencer reported that the 4th of July Committee would be holding
its last meeting prior to the 4th of July Festival, on Monday, June 17. He
stated that the committee and all involved were ready for the event and he
expressed his enjoyment having served on the committee.
   Alderman Spencer reported that he, the Mayor and several Aldermen attended
the Southport Elementary Business Day and presented a $10,000 donation from ABC
revenues to the school for extracurricular projects. Alderman Spencer stated
his gratitude to the Board of Aldermen for supporting the elementary school.
PROJECT REPORT
   City Manager Oakley presented the job description for additional Public
Information Officer (PIO) duties to the Tourism Director position.
Essential Duties and Tasks
   The PIO manages, plans, and executes information dissemination
   Coordinates public relations activities
   Manages the city website
   Promotes and maintains positive media relations
   Responds to request for public information
   Distributes general communication regarding events, operations, and programs
for the City.
Knowledge, Skills and Abilities
   The PIO will be able to establish good working relationships with the media
and the public and to maintain those relationship by answering queries
promptly, arranging interviews or speakers when requested and being a familiar
and involved presence at community events.
   Develops marketing and public relations materials for the City.
   Writes, edits, reviews, and approves public relations materials including
news releases, articles, speeches, on-line information services.
   As a key member of the City team, the PIO collaborates with City Department
Heads to ensure the development of communication strategies.
   Is responsible for developing guidelines for disseminating information and
outlining procedures to follow in a crisis.
   The PIO administers crisis/emergency communications during critical
incidents by collaborating with key personnel and disseminating vital
information to the media and the public both quickly and effectively.
   Serves at the Emergency Operations Center (EOC) when activated. Position
will report directly to the City Manager.
   City Manager Oakley brought to the Board’s attention a recent right-of-way
incident and he asked the Board for their guidance with ideas, policies,
enforcement, etc.
   Alderman Mosteller emphasized the need to protect the right-of-way, provide
a way to enforce the Ordinance, and she asked for staff to bring possibilities
back to the Board for consideration.
   City Manager Oakley pointed out that many of the obstructions in the right-
of-way have not been permitted and have been in place for decades. He
questioned how it would be determined which right-of-way objects would be
removed and which would remain.
   Alderman Powell stated that the City needed to tread lightly and look at one
item at a time.
   Alderman Tucker spoke about the precedent set in 2012 for authorizing
structures in the right-of-way via the Aldermen issuing a license. He stated he
did not favor wholesale clean up around town, but he emphasized that at some
point, a line must be drawn to restrict encroachment on the right-of-way.
   Alderman Sharkey pointed out that historically, encroachments on the right-
of-way had not been consistently enforced. She stated that she had performed a
casual survey of properties in Southport and she estimated that 80% of citizens
do not place anything past the telephone poles. She stated her opinion that
there needs to be an examination of the issue.
STAFF REPORTS – Provided in Agenda packet
   Tourism Director Jones provided a new Southport filming brochure.
BOARD COMMENTS
   Alderman Pukenas endorsed visiting the Never Forget 911 Memorial when it
visits Southport. He pointed out that a cupola had been added to the public
restrooms on Nash Street. He wished all a happy and safe 4th of July.
   Alderman Sharkey asked staff, in concert with the Planning Board, to
investigate:
   ∙    Unusual zoning on N. Lord Street; commercial mixed in with residential
   ∙    Definition of “marina”; UDO and CAMA Land Use Plan definitions do not
match
   ∙    Examine the tree policy; it is not protecting lots that are
undeveloped; possible UDO Article 12 may limit clearing. Address tree clearing
without building plans.
   Alderman Sharkey spoke about Southport’s limited business property, stating
that there is a total of 12% of all Southport property in the Central Business
District, Business District and Highway Commercial District. She added that
businesses should not be faulted for maximizing their economic return. She
stated that the City needs to be prosperous and she suggested applying
conditional use regulations and limitations where appropriate on a case by case
basis. She exampled the potential growth of the hospital, it’s limited site
footprint, and its only option to build up. She recommended re-examining the
CUP process.
   Alderman Mosteller voiced remarks pertaining to the proposed text amendment.
She pointed out that, in the past, the Board of Aldermen had been involved in
the Condition Use Permit (CUP) process. Noting that Southport’s buildings are
predominately small scale, Alderman Mosteller spoke about the 50’ potential
size of developments suggested in the proposed text amendment. She stated that
the amendment is submitted for the benefit of one business but would permit 50’
structures in other Business District areas. She commented that the height
issue would not be in the forefront if the City was not selling the former
wastewater treatment plant property.
ADJOURN
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Tucker to adjourn the June 13,
2019 meeting. Unanimous vote; motion carried. Meeting adjourned at 7:30 p.m.
                           /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
JUNE 17, 2019
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN    SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
CITY HALL, 2ND FLOOR JUNE 17, 2019
1029 N. HOWE STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Rick Pukenas, Jim Powell, Karen Mosteller,
            Marc Spencer,   Robert Tucker
ABSENT:         Alderman Lora Sharkey
STAFF PRESENT:      Bruce Oakley, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Todd Coring, Police Chief
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   Randy Jones, Tourism Director
Call to Order – 4:00 p.m.
   Mayor Dove called the special meeting, for consideration of adoption of the
FY 2019-2020 Budget, to order at 4:00 p.m.
Invocation
   Chief Drew gave the invocation.
Budget
   Noting he had over 25 years of involvement in the budget process, Mayor Dove
stated appreciation to staff for preparing the budget.
   Alderman Pukenas expressed thankfulness for having the time to thoroughly
review the budget as revised and presented during the regular meeting June 13.
He indicated that he did not have any outstanding concerns or issues with the
FY 2019-2020 budget as presented.
   Alderman Mosteller pointed:
   ∙    Anticipated Revenues for Community Garden, Beautification and Forestry
Committees, is a carry over.
   ∙    Page 8 & 9, Administration Line Item 10-01-4120-5400, Capital Outlay –
Vehicles, $10,000, needs a description line entry.
   ∙    Page 25, Parks & Recreation Line Item 10-80-6120-5800, Capital Outlay –
Buildings, $37,600, the items listed in the description line entry total
$43,000. City Manager Oakley noted that $6,000 had been removed from that line
item. He indicated that the Finance Director would make the modifications.
   Aldermen Powell, Tucker and Spencer stated their endorsement for the
proposed budget.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Tucker to adopt the FY 2019-
2020 budget. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2052_1559x1438.jpg]  
BUDGET ORDINANCE - FISCAL YEAR 2019-2020
CITY OF SOUTHPORT   
      BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that, following a duly advertised public hearing, the following
annual budget ordinance is adopted to estimate revenues and make appropriations
for the financial operations of the City of Southport for the fiscal year
beginning July 1, 2019, and ending June 30, 20120.
SECTION I. GENERAL FUND
   A.   Anticipated Revenues. The following revenues are estimated to be
available in the General Fund for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2019, and
ending June 30, 2020:
Ad Valorem Taxes - PY                $2,845,770
Local Option Sales Tax               997,434
Room Occupancy Tax                   106,575
Utility Franchise Tax               365,000
Miscellaneous Tax and Permits             21,252
Permit and Inspection Fees             252,899
Fire inspections & permit fees              1,331,315
Rescue - Transport Fees                    190,000
Police - Misc. Grants                7,806
Refuse Collection Fees & Tax                240,000
Parks & Recreation Grants                      37,945
Tourism – Miscellaneous              20,795
Interest Earnings                  125,000
Community Building Rentals            95,000
Sale of Fixed Assets                     25,000
   Community Garden, Beautification & Forestry     4,485
   Insurance Recovery & other revenue       39,167
ABC Revenue - Law Enforcement         377,982
      Powell Bill Distribution                     124,783
   FEMA Reimbursement            124,098
   State Golden Leaf Grant            131,902
   Appropriated Fire Fee Balance                 631,954
   Appropriated Fund Balance            203,000
Total Revenues               $8,299,162
   B.   Expenditures. The following amounts are hereby appropriated in the
General Fund for the expenses of the city government and its activities for the
fiscal year beginning July 1, 2019, and ending June 30, 2020:
Governing Body                        $   501,879
Administration                           483,760
Finance                              288,137
Solid Waste                              240,000
Buildings and Grounds                        686,944
Garage                              209,456
Police                                 1,357,006
Fire                                 2,153,269
Planning & Inspections                        470,348
Streets                               450,133
Parks and Recreation                        913,515
Community Building                           165,542
Tourism                              254,390
Powell Bill                              124,783
Total Expenditures                        $ 8,299,162
SECTION II. ELECTRIC FUND
   A.    Anticipated Revenues. The following revenues are estimated to be
available in the Electric Fund for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2019, and
ending June 30, 2020:
Electricity Sales                                   7,400,000
Utility Sales Taxes                               525,739
Service Charges                         34,194
Other Revenues                                  5,000
Total Revenues                        $ 7,964,933
Expenditures. The following amounts are hereby appropriated in the Electric
Fund for expenses for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2019, and ending June
30, 2020:
Total Expenditures                     $ 7,964,933
SECTION III. WATER AND SEWER FUND
Anticipated Revenues. The following revenues are estimated to be available in
the Water and Sewer Fund for the fiscal year beginning:
Water                              $ 1,421,350
Sewer Sales                            2,267,000
Water/Sewer Tap Fees                        18,000
State Grant                              65,000
Service Charges                         25,000
Interest Income                                     1,000
Miscellaneous Revenues                      13,000
Transfer System Development Fund                        300,000
Total Revenues                        $ 4,110,350
   B.   Expenditures. The following amounts are hereby appropriated in the
Water and Sewer Fund for expenses for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2019,
and ending June 30, 2020:
   Total Expenditures                     $ 4,110,350
SECTION IV. SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT FEE FUND
   A.   Anticipated Revenues. The following amounts are appropriated in the
System Development Capital Reserve Fund for the fiscal year beginning July 1,
2019, and ending June 30, 2020:
Sewer Development Fees                   $ 200,000
Water Development Fees                        100,000
                            $ 300,000
   B.   Expenditures. The following amounts are hereby appropriated in the
System Development Capital Reserve Fund for the fiscal year beginning July 1,
2019 and ending June 30, 2020.
   Transfer to Water and Sewer Fund           $ 300,000
SECTION V. TAX RATE
   There is hereby levied, for fiscal year 2019-2020, a tax at the rate of
$0.2956 on each one hundred dollars ($100) of assessed valuation of property
located within the City of Southport for the purpose of raising revenue in the
General Fund. The assessed value of property is $938,025,702. Revenue neutral
tax rate adjusted for growth is $.2654 on each one hundred dollars ($100) of
assessed valuation.
SECTION VI. BUDGET OFFICER AUTHORITY
   The city manager (budget officer) is hereby authorized to transfer
appropriations within a fund and between funds under the following terms:
   He may transfer amounts between appropriations within the same fund,
provided that a report of such transfers shall be made no later than the next
regular financial report to the Board of Aldermen.
   He may authorize temporary transfers of cash among funds as necessary to
meet cash flow needs.
   All other transfers of funds between appropriations or budget funds shall be
accomplished by Board amendment of this ordinance.
SECTION IX. CONTINUING AUTHORIZATION
   Prior year Capital Reserve Fund is no longer a restriction of Fund Balance.
Previously adopted capital project budgets, grant project budgets, and special
reserve funds are hereby un-authorized as all such projects have been completed
and all monies shall be returned to the associated funds upon adoption of the
Budget ordinance.
SECTION X. BUDGET IMPLEMENTATION
   This ordinance and the supporting budget document shall be the basis of the
financial plan for the City of Southport municipal government for the 2019-2020
fiscal year. The budget officer shall administer the budget and shall insure
the finance officer and department heads of the city are provided with
sufficient guidance to properly implement this plan. Copies of the budget
ordinance shall be furnished to the city manager and the finance officer for
their use and direction in the disbursement of funds and to the city clerk for
the official records of the city.
SECTION XI. ADOPTION
   This ordinance has been adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in
special session on June 17, 2020, upon the motion of Alderman Powell and the
second of Alderman Tucker, with a vote of five (5) ayes and zero (0) noes and
shall be effective July 1, 2019.
 
                           /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
ADJOURN
   Alderman Tucker motioned, second by Alderman Powell to adjourn the June 17,
2019 Special Meeting. Unanimous vote; motion carried.  
 
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
JULY 11, 2019
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING JULY 11, 2019
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor J.V. Dove
         Aldermen Rick Pukenas, Lora Sharkey, Karen Mosteller,
         Marc Spencer,   Robert Tucker
ABSENT:         Alderman Powell
STAFF PRESENT:      Bruce Oakley, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
   Todd Coring, Police Chief
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   David Fox, Public Works Director
   Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
   Randy Jones, Tourism Director
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   John Micheletto, Codes Administrator
   Thomas Lloyd, Planner
   Kate Marshall, Animal Protective Services/Code Enforcement Officer
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Dove called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Sharkey welcomed everyone and gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Sharkey led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Public Comment
   Mr. Fred “Flick” Guerrina, 710 Dale Avenue, expressed appreciation for the
competence, general attitude and service to the town by the governing board,
city leadership, management staff, fire department, and new police department.
He noted that it is easy to be critical, state accusations and form opinions on
gossip, antidotes and innuendoes. He shared his experience upon moving to
Southport and getting pulled into the negativity. He stated his support for the
sale of the former wastewater treatment plant and the proposed use. He pointed
out that the marina has grown into a great asset to this city and has become a
good neighbor. He expressed support of the proposed amendment to the UDO for a
50 ft. dry storage building, but not a broad change to permit 50-foot height
throughout the Business District.
   Ms. Victoria Matthews, 104 River Watch Lane, spoke in opposition to the
proposed Unified Development Ordinance (UDO) Text Amendment Article 11, Table
of Area, Yard, Density, and Height.  (Entire comments on file in the Clerk’s
office)
   Mr. Clay Fairley, 1005 Captain Adkins Drive, spoke in opposition to the
proposed text amendment. He stated his opinion that if approved, the amendment
would allow 50-foot buildings to be built throughout the commercial sector and
be a disservice to the community.
   Mr. Brian Stevens, 503 Cades Trail, implored the Board to say no to the
proposed text amendment.    
   Ms. Lowe Davis, 504 W. Brunswick Street, expressed opposition to the
proposed text amendment. She announced that there was a newly formed non-profit
group, “Friends of Southport,” that would like to work with the City to retain
the former WWTP site as green space.
   Mr. Ed Glenn, 202 N. Atlantic Avenue, spoke in opposition to the proposed
text amendment stating that Southport was under a commercial attack and being
exploited for personal gain.
   Mr. Paul Swenson, 107 N. Atlantic Avenue and Provision Company co-owner,
stated his opposition to the proposed text amendment. He stated his
understanding that the text amendment, if adopted, would permit additional
marina sites along the waterfront with 50 ft. storage buildings.
   Ms. Maria Swenson, 107 N. Atlantic Avenue and Provision Company co-owner,
stated her opinion, as a businesswoman, that passage of the proposed text
amendment would permit property owned by her and Mr. Swenson to have a marina
with a 50 ft. dry storage building, and would financially be easier than
operating a restaurant.
   Ms. Quinn Sweeney, 900 W. West Street, spoke in opposition to the proposed
text amendment contending it is spot zoning and would allow other areas in
Business District zoning to build over the 40 ft. current height limit.
   ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Dove stated, “If any member of the Board knows of
any conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with
respect to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
E)   Approval of Agenda
   Alderman Pukenas motioned, second by Alderman Sharkey to approve the Agenda.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
F)   Announcements
   Alderman Pukenas announced that the Mayor and staff met with the North
Carolina Department of Transportation (NCDOT) regarding transportation issues
that had been raised by citizens; i.e. speeding, signs, and lane stripping.
   Alderman Sharkey announced that the Maritime Museum would be hosting a
Hurricane Preparedness forum, Monday, July 29, 5:00 p.m. at the Community
Building.
   Alderman Mosteller announced that the Beautification Committee would be
holding a This is Our Town cleanup, Saturday, August 3 beginning at 9:00
a.m.   
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Pukenas motioned, second by Alderman Sharkey to approve the Consent
Agenda. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
1.   Approval of Minutes for June13, 2019 Regular Meeting; Approval of June 17,
2019 Special Meeting – approved
AGENDA
2.   Public Hearing Pursuant to N.C.G.S. 160A-364; Unified Development
Ordinance (UDO) Text Amendment Article 11, Table of Area, Yard, Density, and
Height
   Alderman Pukenas motioned, second by Alderman Sharkey to open Public
Hearing. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   City Planner Lloyd explained that an application for a zoning text amendment
to the Unified Development Ordinance Article 11, Table of Area, Yard, Density,
and Height Requirements had been submitted by Preston Development and Southport
Marina. He stated that the request is to allow a maximum height of 50 feet for
a marina dry storage structure. He reported that the Planning Board reviewed
the proposed text amendment and voted to not recommend approval. He stated that
a public hearing was advertised to receive public comments and for the Board of
Aldermen to consider the text amendment. He noted that an existing 50-foot dry
storage structure was approved in 2008.
   Mr. Ed Glenn, 202 N. Atlantic Avenue, voiced his opinion that the proposed
text amendment would potentially change the character of the city and that the
Board of Aldermen are out of touch with the electorate.
   Noting that a number of Southport residents moved to Southport from
somewhere else, Ms. Lowe Davis, 504 W. Brunswick Street, implored the Board to
be wise, careful stewards and not let Southport become unrecognizable like
Myrtle Beach, South Carolina.
   Mr. John Allen, 110 W. Nash Street, member of the Planning Board and former
City Planner, stated his opinion that the proposed text amendment allows a
specific exception and is not good planning or good policy.
   Mr. Jody Wilmoth, 315 Clarendon Avenue, native of Southport, expressed his
opinion that the height limit should remain at 40 feet.
   Alderman Sharkey motioned, second by Alderman Spencer to close Public
Hearing. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Responding to a query by Alderman Tucker, Building Inspector Strickland
stated that the original marina dry storage building was constructed in the
1980’s, was over 40 ft. tall, and could have been rebuilt but the developer
failed to do so within the 180 day allotted time requirement.
   Per Alderman Mosteller’s request, verbatim comments provided in their
entirety:
“I appreciate the work of the Planning Board, staff and the citizens that have
shared their concerns.
We would not be here considering this text amendment if the City was not trying
to sell land to the Preston Group. In order to execute a one-time sale of a
city property, we are now considering the Cary based Preston Group’s demand for
an exemption from the Business District height restriction for dry storage
buildings.
This is not about the sale of a piece of property. This discussion is about a
text amendment change that will affect the Business District zone, not just one
parcel of land. If we approve this text amendment, we will be the ones setting
the precedent.
The idea that the questions used by the Board of Adjustment to determine a
conditional use permit should guide the decision about this text amendment is
an error. The only thing that the Preston Group’s special interest 50’ height
text amendment has in common with a conditional use permit is that it is for
the benefit of one individual. There is nothing else like this text amendment
in Article 11. The table of area, yard, density and height requirements does
not contain special exemptions for the benefit of one property owner.
Lamenting that there isn’t a conditional use permit process for height cannot
be the basis for approving this text amendment. Trying to apply conditional use
standards to this conversation is talking about a process that doesn’t even
exist. We CAN NOT make good zoning decisions by doing an end run around our own
zoning policy to give an individual business a special exemption benefit at the
expense of the citizens of Southport and our future.
The city is currently working to update the UDO and these updates are due for
consideration in April of next year. And tonight, we are again considering
reaching into the UDO for the Cary based Preston Group and giving them a height
exemption that we will not give to other Business owners.
It’s important to note that unlike the last text amendment that this Board
voted to approve, our city planning staff, and the UDO consultant did not make
a recommendation for the Board to approve this special interest text amendment.
In 2007, the Board of Aldermen changed the process so that height could not be
determined in a zoning district based on the desires of one business. In 2007,
the Board of Aldermen assured that the 50’ height for the Dry Storage Building
could never be considered a precedent, by eliminating the ability to get a
height variance through the conditional use permit process. At that time, the
Board recognized the importance of height and the need for height to be
uniformly administered within each zoning designation.
I sat down with one of the most committed and respected members of the
Southport community, former Alderman Paul Fisher, to ask him why, in 2007, the
Board voted unanimously to deny height exemptions. Colonel Fisher said, “In our
small waterfront community, height restrictions cannot be for the benefit of
one, they must be equal for all.” And that’s why he and all the Board members
voted in 2007 to do away with conditional use height variances.
The past did not set a precedent. But to make an arbitrary change and allow one
use, one business, marinas on the waterfront, to have an exemption to the
required height restriction is setting a precedent.
Consider the statements in our packet that advocate for the Preston Group’s
text amendment; the statements extracted from the CAMA Land Use Plan to attempt
to justify this special interest height text amendment need a closer look.
The first statement: P.1 Southport strongly supports all efforts to maintain
the Southport Marina as a public access facility in perpetuity.
The words “public access facility in perpetuity” are important.
If you read through the CAMA Land Use Plan, very quickly you realize that all
the statements, and there are many throughout the document, regarding the
Southport Marina as a public access facility, in context, are referring to the
Marina as owned by the state or owned by the city.
For example:
Page 103
“The City of Southport will continue to request the state to sell the Southport
Marina parcel to the City for use by citizens.”
Page 98
“Southport will annually review the status of the standing lease” …” to ensure
that the property remains open to public access.”
Page 162
Public Access: “These policies are intended to improve existing access
facilities and provide for acquisition of additional public access sites in
accordance with NC CAMA standards.”
Policy 82: “The Southport Marina is important to residents in and visitors to
the area. If developed by a private developer, the public access component
could be lost.”
I have read the Preston Group’s deed for the marina. The only part of the
Southport Marina that must be maintained as public access in perpetuity is the
boat ramp. When the state of NC chose to not honor the original agreement to
return the Southport Marina to the City of Southport and decided to sell the
city marina to the Cary based Preston Group, there was no binding agreement to
ensure that the marina will remain a public access facility.
So, the words in the CAMA Land use Plan, “public access facility in
perpetuity”, are now relegated to a hope and should not be used to defend the
Preston Group’s desire to exceed the maximum business district height
requirement.
The next statement: “Southport recognizes that tourism is important and will
support activities that promote tourism.” I am not quite sure how warehousing
150 private boats is effectively an ongoing promotion for tourism? If we are
going to approve a height exemption for the benefit of one business, we would
better promote tourism if we allowed the waterfront restaurants to all build to
50 feet. That would promote more tourism.
The consistency statement that favors the Preston Group says giving them a
height exemption is reasonable because it will not adversely affect the use of
adjoining properties. Tonight, we have heard from property owners that
disagree. These citizens own residential property adjacent to the properties
that would qualify for this special interest text amendment. It’s one thing if
our community decides to allow the entire business district to build to 50 feet
but, it is not right to give one business a zoning exemption so they can make
more money at the expense of other citizens.
It is the right of the citizens of Southport with residential property adjacent
to properties zoned business to expect that the Business District height
requirements are consistent. It is the right of other business owners in the
Business District to expect a level playing field. The conditional use process
has nothing to do with our decision tonight but, even the conditional use
permit process gives adjacent property owners the right to weigh in with their
objections as a key factor in conditional use permit approval process.
We have a plan, the Unified Development Ordinance provides for consistent,
ordered growth. If this Board approves the Preston Group’s request for a
special height exemption in the Business District zone, it is not a thoughtful
update to the UDO; it can only be seen as a hack to cut the deal.
I appreciate that the Preston Group wants to make more money, they are in the
business to make money. But we cannot facilitate their continued expansion in
Southport, in defiance of the city’s zoning plan. If this text amendment is
approved, besides giving this exemption to the Preston Group there are at least
two other properties that could immediately qualify for this height exemption
to allow future construction of 50’ tall marina dry storage buildings.
Approval tonight will set a precedent. In the future, what do we say to other
business owners? What are we going to say to waterfront restaurants, that are
required to build on pilings? When they say, you gave a 50-foot height
exemption for Marina Dry Storage buildings. We can make more money if we can
build our restaurant 50 feet tall. Make no mistake, currently no precedent
exists but if we approve this text amendment tonight, we will be setting the
precedent for future 50-foot structures.
We are a small town, here at the mouth of the Cape Fear. When do we give away
what makes us this special place? Drop by drop the stone is washed away. What
is the tipping point? When do we lose that unique balance that makes us so very
special? This year, five years, ten years. I would ask that we stay the course
and trust the zoning principles that will protect our future. Please do not
approve this text amendment.
It is the right of the citizens in this room to believe we serve them too. It’s
been said that this proposal should be considered rationally and objectively.
There is nothing wrong with having an emotional connection to our community.
There is no rational or objective reasoning that can be applied to selling our
city to serve the needs of one owner.
Approving this special interest text amendment will set more than a building
height precedent; it will send a signal to others that the City of Southport
sells land and includes a special interest zoning change to cut the deal. I
hope the next time we sell our zoning principles; we get more than $650,000
dollars.”
 
Alderman Sharkey expressed her views regarding the proposed text amendment
(comments included verbatim in their entirety):
   “I think it is important to consider any kind of text amendment, ordinance,
etc. with facts, being rational, looking at the pros and cons, and looking at
what is trying to be accomplish for the City. We need to have a mix of
commercial and residential properties. We need to foster good relationships so
that we have commercial entities that want to be here. We need to evaluate our
ordinances so that they are reflected of the needs of a community at a current
time and not live in the past or be outdated; everything from storm water
management to building heights or zoning. It’s all together, it’s not just one
thing.
   To answer some of the remarks that were made earlier about if this amendment
is adopted and the dry storage building is built, it would impact residential
property, the residential property might be zoned but not built there, that
would be the choice of somebody to decide if they wanted to live across the
street from the marina or not.
   Concerning the marina property, it is open to the public, it’s not private,
it is not a club, it is there and provides a service that we (City) can’t
provide. We can not provide, as a City, those boat slips, we can’t provide the
amenities to people at that scale, we can’t manage that. There is nothing that
requires the City to not have it owned by a private corporation, but it is open
to use. You have to pay for it, everything can’t be free.
   The proposed building is not going to impact the enjoyment of our
waterfront. This text amendment would be in compliance with some of the goals
of the CAMA Core Land Use Plan, despite what others may think. This text
amendment would provide the means to clean up a property that is a hazardous
waste site right now. This would allow for, in many cases, to be viewed as a
win/win. We are working with a commercial entity that has a proven track record
of being a good property owner that has worked with the City in many ways,
provides money to the Maritime Museum, hosts the King Mackerel Tournament, and
is probably open to other partnerships if we extend the hand to work with them.
   I understand the concerns that a 50 ft. building request could expand. That
I absolutely understand and where we should address that is with other
conditions that we can adopt through the UDO (Unified Development Ordinance).
We could adopt a different comprehensive marina definition to better define it,
so it is limited to truly one or two locations in the city. We could limit
where marinas are placed, we could designate a marina district on our zoning
map. That is a note in the current UDO but because its written for either State
property or city owned property, it’s not enforced, but why don’t we modify
that and use that to our advantage. Change the CUP process, we use conditional
use in very beneficial ways, it allows you to evaluate whether a use in a place
that is not generally zoned for that is appropriate or not. It may allow a
bakery to be operated in a residential area. That is going to be up before the
Board of Adjustment, that is a reasonable thing to entertain if there is not
impacts on other property owners. So, I appreciate the expansion of things
beyond the dry storage building. So, we should work to limit that, so it is
limited to this site. That is fine, I am not suggesting that we have dry
storage building everywhere that are 50 ft. tall. That’s why I feel a
conditional use process does apply to this or should apply to this because we
are talking about an exact location in a specific time and place, not a general
opening up of everything in the Business District.
   But we must move forward now, we do have an offer to buy the land and we
know what the intent is, the intent is to build a dry storage building. There
is no secret, they are not trying to be devious, it has all been very open and
if you ask questions and you ask to get information, I am sure they will share
it with you, but instead we are being ugly about it. We need to work forward to
be the best city we can and that means providing a mix of residential/
commercial.
   Marinas are part of a waterfront community. We are not bringing in an
industry that is not cohesive with what our identity is. We can’t just base
judgment or our ordinances on esthetics. We need to evaluate functionality,
purpose, location, and what it is going to provide. The land that is going to
be sold is an asset. This is the best use of that asset right now and I believe
we should facilitate this. I have taken in information from people that have
been for and against it but overall, this is best for our future because I have
evaluated it from both sides. We could leave it as it is or we can get it
cleaned up, we can have positive influx to our commercial tax base, we can work
with a good commercial business owner, and we can also say this is where the
marina lives, this is it. If we work within this document (UDO), that’s a
living, breathing document, that is supposed to be revised and updated every so
many years, so that it changes with the needs and the times that are before us.
It is a reasonable request.”
   Alderman Pukenas expressed concerns about the definition of a Marina;
“Any waterfront structure or development commercially providing permanent or
temporary harboring or storing for two (2) or more boats (pleasure and/or
commercial) and providing marina sales including but not limited to retail
sales for fuel, repairs, convenient foodstuffs, boats, engines, and
accessories.”
   Noting he had over 40 years’ experience, Alderman Tucker talked about the
Conditional Use Permit (CUP) process and he stated his opinion that
consideration of a 50 ft. marina dry storage structure should be assessed
through the CUP process that allows for negotiation with the builder/developer
resulting in benefits for both the City and the developer. Alderman Tucker
pointed out that the existing definition of a marina could open up other areas
in the Business District zoning to a marina development. He noted that there is
already a 50 ft. boat storage building at the marina and another structure of
that height would be on the outside periphery of town and would be a good use
for that site.
   Alderman Mosteller noted that a 40 ft. marina dry storage structure could
currently be permitted, and she stated her opinion that the request for an
additional 10 feet of height is strictly about making more money.
   City Attorney Isenberg pointed out that the applicant submitted a text
amendment application, did not apply for a Conditional Use Permit and the Board
can only consider this application for a text amendment. He added that when
considering the text amendment, the Board must consider that a marina dry
storage building anywhere in the Business District could have a height of 50
ft.
   City Manager Oakley verified with the City Planner and Building Inspector
that the way the Ordinance is written as this time would not allow an option
for the applicant to pursue a CUP for a 50 ft. marina dry storage building.
   Alderman Mosteller motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to adopt the
Planning Board consistency statement and not approve the proposed text
amendment.
   Aye:   Aldermen Mosteller & Pukenas
   Nay:   Alderman Sharkey, Tucker, Spencer
   Motion failed 3-2
   Alderman Sharkey motioned, second by Alderman Spencer to approve the
proposed zoning text amendment with superscript to the Table of Area, Yard,
Density and Height, Article 11 to allow maximum height of 50 ft. for Marina Dry
Storage structure in Business District in compliance with the CAMA Core Land
Use Plan objectives.
   Discussion
   Alderman Mosteller pointed out that the CAMA Core Land Use Plan, Policy 85
states; “The City supports building heights that are consistent with the
surrounding areas.”  She added that the Plan further identifies a maximum
height of 40 ft. in the Business District and allows construction of marinas
and associated dry stack storage facilities in compliance with the zoning
ordinance. She stated her understanding of Alderman Tucker’s concerns and she
stated her opinion the text amendment was ad-hoc without consideration of the
unintended consequences.
   Alderman Tucker suggested including language that would limit where a marina
could be established; “must have at least 40 wet boat slips.”
   Alderman Sharkey was amenable to including in the motion the language
suggested by Aldermen Tucker; “marinas containing at least 40 wet boat slips
within the district may have a maximum height of 50 feet for the dry storage
buildings.”
   Attorney Isenberg stated that the original motion had to be withdrawn.
Alderman Sharkey withdrew her original motion with acquiescence of Alderman
Spencer.
   Pointing out that an Alderman was absent, Alderman Pukenas motioned, second
by Alderman Tucker to defer consideration of the text amendment to the next
Board meeting, August 8, 2019.
   Aye:   Alderman Pukenas, Mosteller, Tucker
   Nay:   Alderman Spencer and Sharkey
   Motion carried 3-2
   Alderman Mosteller asked if the text amendment had to go back to the
Planning Board and if the proposed amendment is contract zoning. City Attorney
Isenberg advised that another Public Hearing would not be necessary as long as
any proposed modification to the proposal was not substantial and would draw
the same basic comments and speakers. He added that the text amendment is not
contract zoning as it could apply to more than one property owner within the
district who could meet the standards.
3.   Appointment(s) to Planning Board
   Alderman Sharkey nominated Mr. Richard Sloan for a full city seat on the
Planning Board.
   With no additional nominations, nominations were closed.
   Alderman Sharkey motioned, second by Alderman Spencer to appoint Mr. Richard
Sloan to a full city seat on the Planning Board. Unanimous vote; motion
carried.
   Nominations were open for the city alternate seat vacated by appointment of
Mr. Sloan to a full city seat.
   Alderman Mosteller nominated Ms. Sue Hodgin
   Alderman Spencer nominated Mr. William Hewett
   Votes for Ms. Hodgin:      Aldermen Mosteller and Pukenas
   Votes for Mr. Hewett:      Aldermen Spencer, Sharkey and Tucker
   Vote 3-2 for appointment of Mr. Hewett to an alternate city seat on the
Planning Board.
Committee Reports - None
Project Report
   City Manager Oakley reported that $1.5M has been obligated by FEMA for
Hurricane Florence damages.
   City Manager Oakley reported that a meeting is scheduled with CAMA for
review of the City’s preliminary application for the City Dock.
   City Manager Oakley reported that staff is reaching out to the Cape Fear
Council of Government for completion of an inventory of encroachments on the
City’s rights-of-way.
Staff Reports
– provided in Agenda packet
Chief Coring reported that approximately 160 golf carts had been inspected and
issued City stickers by the Police Department. He explained:
   ∙   Golf carts must have a city sticker to operate within the city
   ∙   Carts with a DMV tag still require an inspection by the Police
Department and issuance of a city sticker
   ∙   Golf carts are only allowed on streets with 35 mph or less speed limits
   ∙   A cart with just a city sticker cannot operate on State streets but can
cross State streets
Emphasizing that golf cart injuries can be very serious, Chief Coring
encouraged everyone to wear seatbelts when operating a golf cart and do not
drink and drive.
   Code Enforcement Officer, Ms. Marshall announced that Southport was chosen
as an inaugural Pet Friendly City.
   Building Inspector Strickland introduced Mr. John Micheletto, newly hired
Code Administrator.
Board Comments
   - None
ADJOURN
   Alderman Tucker motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to adjourn the July 11,
2019 meeting. Unanimous vote; motion carried. Meeting adjourned at 7:42 p.m.
 
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
 
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
AUGUST 8, 2019
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING AUGUST 8, 2019
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Rick Pukenas, Lora Sharkey, Karen Mosteller,
            Marc Spencer, Robert Tucker, Jim Powell
STAFF PRESENT:      Bruce Oakley, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
   Todd Coring, Police Chief
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   David Fox, Public Works Director
   Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
   Randy Jones, Tourism Director
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   John Micheletto, Codes Administrator
   Thomas Lloyd, Planner
   Tanya Shannon, Deputy City Clerk
   Kate Marshall, Animal Protective Services/Code Enforcement Officer
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Dove called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Pukenas welcomed everyone and Mayor Dove gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Pukenas led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Public Comment
   Mr. Woody Wilson, 502 W. Brunswick Street, expressed his concerns about
disruptions and antics occurring during Board meetings. He emphasized that
civility needs to be recognized between factions of differing opinions and
everyone needs to conduct themselves with common courtesy and common decency.
He pointed out that the Mayor has authority, per Open Meetings law and statutes
of North Carolina, to have escorted from the room, those who do not comply with
the Open Meetings rules and regulations.
Ms. Ginger Harper, 108 S. Davis Street, expressed her concerns about the
proposed Unified Development Ordinance (UDO) text amendment and her
understanding that it would allow 50- foot structures all along the waterfront.
   Stating he is still uncomfortable with the former wastewater treatment plant
land sale, Mr. Jason Robbins, 504 W. Brunswick Street, asked the Board to show
him a current assessment of the environmental conditions of the property,
professional price quotes on the tear down and cleanup cost, a current
commercial appraisal of the real estate’s market value, prove that the City is
getting the best price and show him some kind of proposal to make up for the
fact that Southport is losing 2-1/2 acres of waterfront land that future
generations will not enjoy.
   Ms. Sage Seeley, 255 E. 11th Street, addressed the Board about the recent
sewer rate change and the hardship the increase has caused the residents of
Brunswick Village Apartments.
   Mr. Ed Glenn, 202 N. Atlantic Avenue, voiced his opinion that the Board’s
actions to date with respect to the sale of the former wastewater treatment
plant, have created stress around town. He added that the handling of the deal
and lack of transparency have raised suspicions, frustrations, and have
undermined the trust and confidence the public has placed on the Board. Mr.
Glenn asked the Board to consider tabling the sale and building height increase
until after the election.
   Ms. Dorothy Wade, 251 E. 11th Street, resident of Brunswick Village
Apartments, spoke about the sewer rate increase stating that $95/month is too
high for a one bedroom, one bath residence that does not have a washer and
dryer or dishwasher.
   Mr. Leonard Moore, 601 N. Clarendon, reported that his residence was damaged
during Hurricane Florence due to a sewer spill and he wished to file a claim
for compensation with the City. He was advised to contact the City Manager.
   Ms. Lowe Davis, 504 W. Brunswick Street, quoted a 2017 State Port Pilot
published letter written by Ms. Lora Sharkey concerning retaining the former
wastewater treatment plant property for use as a nature park. (complete
comments on file in the Clerk’s office)
   Pointing out that the recent sewer rate increase has caused a hardship for
seniors, Ms. Ennis Tobler, 129 N. Caswell Avenue, asked the Board to consider
re-examining the rates and provide for a reduced rate for those on a fixed
income.
E)   Approval of Agenda
   Mayor Dove requested addition of:
   ∙    Agenda Item #5, Contract Amendment, Southport Marina Agreement for Sale
and Purchase of Real Property
   ∙    Consent Agenda Item #3, Tax Releases
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Sharkey to approve the Agenda
as amended. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   City Manager Oakley acknowledged the concerns about the sewer rate increase.
He read a prepared statement:
The City of Southport Sewer rates increased on July 1, 2019. The base rate for
3,000 gallons increased by 35% and the rate for usage above 3,000 gallons went
up 5%. This was the last year in a three-year plan of rate increases needed to
pay for future debt service on infrastructure improvements and wastewater
treatment capacity. Starting next year, rates will only go up incrementally
based on the Consumer Price Index. The rates were calculated using a rate
calculator model developed by the UNC School of Government Environmental
Finance Center that allowed the City to look at several scenarios and choose
the one it felt was the most equitable for its citizens. The Environmental
Finance Center’s model took in consideration our current cost to operate our
system and the significant cost the City must incur to provide wastewater
treatment capabilities in the future.
The City is currently leasing sewer capacity from Brunswick County and this
agreement is temporary and is set to expire soon. Therefore, the City had to
develop plans for its future wastewater treatment. In 2017, the City decided to
enter into an agreement with Brunswick County to expand their treatment
capabilities. This expansion would provide the City 750,000 gallons of capacity
per day for the next twenty years and would cost approximately $26,000,000.
Fortunately, the City was able to secure a low-interest loan from the State’s
Clean Water Revolving fund to pay for the expansion. Without this loan, sewer
rate would have to be set at much higher rates.
Before construction of the expansion of the Brunswick County started, the City
decided to review the agreement with the County and look at its long-term
wastewater treatment needs. During this review, the City realized it would need
more than 750,000 gallon per day of sewer capacity well before the twenty-year
agreement with the County ended. This means the City would need to pay for
another expansion which would cost the City millions more and require even more
rate increases. Therefore, the City reviewed its options and realized it could
build its own wastewater treatment plant at approximately the same costs of the
County expansion, but with enough capacity to last well beyond twenty years.
Before a decision was made to leave the agreement with the County and build its
own plant, the City verified that the loan from the State’s Clean Water
Revolving Fund would pay for the new plant. In fact, the loan was originally
awarded based on the idea of the City building its own plant. Based on all this
information, the City notified the County this past spring that it was
terminating the agreement and was going to build its own plant.
The City is currently in the process of designing the new wastewater treatment
plant on property that the City already owns and is working closely with the NC
Clean Water Revolving Fund and expects to start drawing proceeds from the loan
next spring. The plant is scheduled to be operational in 2022. Once the plant
is operational, the City will be able to hold rates steady or even reduce them.
The City has also applied for over $8,000,000 in grants to replace old sewer
lines and lift stations. The replacement of these lines will vastly improve the
efficiency of our sewer system and make even further reductions in sewer rates
possible.
   Mayor Dove directed the City Manager to schedule a Rate Committee meeting to
address the concerns raised about the sewer rates.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Dove stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”   
F)   Announcements
   Mayor Dove announced that former Southport Police Officer, Mr. George
Stanley had retired from the Sheriff’s Office.
    Alderman Pukenas announced that a Hurricane Conference, hosted by the
Maritime Museum, would be held Monday, August 26th, 5:00 – 7:00 p.m. in the
Community Building.
   Alderman Pukenas announced that the Maritime Museum would hold a fundraiser
event, Rock With Us, Friday, September 6, 5:00 – 7:00 on the Garrison lawn.
   Alderman Pukenas pointed out that only three (3) Summer Market Days remain
for the season.
   Alderman Mosteller announced that the Beautification Committee would be
holding a This is Our Town cleanup, Saturday, September 7 beginning at 9:00
a.m.
   Alderman Mosteller announced that the first Caturday Festival would be held
Saturday, August 31st in Franklin Park, 10:00 am – 4:00 p.m. The event will
include arts and crafts, food vendors, auctions, kids’ activities and live
bands.
   Police Chief Coring introduced new Police Officer Travis Murray.
   Mr. Fred “Flick” Guerrina, City of Southport Representative to the Brunswick
County Airport Commission, introduced guest speaker Howie Franklin, Director,
Cape Fear Regional Jetport.
   Mr. Franklin addressed the Board emphasizing that the Airport Commissioners
wish to thank the City of Southport for it’s support. He stated that the
airport is a public service economic engine.
   ∙    1994 economic impact was $4M a year
   ∙    2018 economic impact was $277M a year
   ∙    The airport provides three (3) courtesy cars that are busy every day
shuttling people to Southport.
Mr. Franklin reported that there are 1-12 weekly medical air evacuations and a
hanger is being built to accommodate a medical helicopter based at the airport
24 hours a day, 7 days a week, with a crew ready to go.
Mr. Franklin said that due to the resemblance to crop duster planes and
acrobatic appearing approaches, a newspaper article was published explaining
that water planes utilize the airport during forest fires. He further pointed
out that the Coast Guard, Sheriff’s Office and Civil Air Patrol use the airport
and according to the FAA, it is the 4th busiest airport in the state.
Mr. Franklin stated that a Grand Opening of the new airport terminal would be
held in mid- September. He invited Board members to visit the airport.
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Pukenas motioned, second by Alderman Powell to approve the Consent
Agenda. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   1.   Approval of Minutes for July 11, 2019 Regular Meeting - approved
   2.   Resolution Accepting and Adopting the Results of the Asset Management
Plan for the City’s Wastewater Collection System - approved
   3.   Tax Releases – approved
A RESOLUTION ACCEPTING AND ADOPTING THE RESULTS OF THE ASSET MANAGEMENT PLAN
FOR THE CITY’S WASTEWATER COLLECTION SYSTEM
E-AIA-W-17-0090 & E-AIA-W-18-0125
WHEREAS, the City of Southport was awarded grants from the State Reserve Fund
for the purpose of developing an Asset Inventory and Assessment of the City’s
Wastewater Collection System; and
WHEREAS, the City has conducted the investigative inspections of the system;
and
WHEREAS, the purpose of these investigations was to develop an inventory of the
assets and to assess these assets for condition and function, and to document
the degree of criticality of each asset to the safe and efficient functioning
of the City’s Wastewater Collection System; and
WHEREAS, the results of this effort include a list of priority projects for the
City that establish a roadmap for future investments in the system;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN:
That the City appreciates the investment of State Funds for this purpose.
That the City has completed the work and accepts this Asset Management Plan as
a tool to guide future investments in the collection system.
That the City will update and maintain the database system developed for the
assets.
That the City hereby adopts this Resolution to close the project.
Adopted this, the 8th of August 2019 Southport, North Carolina.
                           /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
                              
Tax Releases
Release Date: 08.17.2018
 
Tax Payer Name:        Primal Critical Care Inc.
Account Number:        109379
Parcel ID:         
Amount Released:      5.51
Value Released:      1,865.00
Release Reason:         Clerical Error/DE Error
 
Release Date: 08.21.2018
 
Tax Payer Name:      Monique Martin Smith
Account Number:      089110
Parcel ID:          222PB095
Amount Released:      111.40
Value Released:      37,687.00
Release Reason:      Did Not Own January 1
Tax Payer Name:      Carter J Childs
Account Number:      026315
Parcel ID:      
Amount Released:      34.34
Value Released:      11,610.00
Release Reason:        Did Not Own January 1
Tax Payer Name:       Donald James Mondejar
Account Number:        097173
Parcel ID:          23800003
Amount Released:       35.39
Value Released:       11,973.00
Released Reason:      Situs In Another State
 
Release Date: 10/25/2018
 
Tax Payer Name:      Thomas C Sedivy
Account Number:       123782
Parcel ID:      
Amount Released:      73.90
Value Released:       25,000.00
Released Reason:       Appealed The Boat Value Within 30 Day Period
Tax Payer Name:        Thomas C Sedivy
Account Number:       123782
Parcel ID:       
Amount Released:       7.39
Value Released:      25,000.00
Release Reason:       Late List
Tax Payer Name:      Gawain Enterprises Inc
Account Number:      301582
Parcel ID:         22100031
Amount Released:      19.79
Value Released:      6,696.00
Release Reason:      Clerical Error/DE Error
Tax Payer Name:      Gawain Enterprises Inc
Account Number:      301582
Parcel ID:         22100031
Amount Released:      5.97
Value Released:      6,696.00
Release Reason:      Late List
 
Release Date: 10/03/2018
 
Tax Payer Name:      Gilliand Skip
Account Number:      052575
Parcel ID:
Amount Released:      999.40
Value Released:      338,093.00
Release Reason:      Did Not Own January 1
 
Release Date: 03/06/2019
 
Tax Payer Name:      David Hugh Fosbury
Account Number:      047847
Parcel ID:         237LA00203
Amount Released:      67.64
Value Released:      22883.00
Release Reason:      Did Not Own January 1
 
Total Amount Released: $1,360.68
Total Value Released: 487,503.00
AGENDA
   4.   Consideration; Unified Development Ordinance (UDO) Text Amendment
Article 11, Table of Area, Yard, Density, and Height
Mayor Dove pointed out that the Public Hearing on the proposed UDO text
amendment had been held on July 11.
Noting that the UDO currently permits a marina to build dry storage structures
40 foot tall without restrictions, Alderman Tucker motioned, second by Alderman
Powell to adopt the UDO Article 11, Table of Area, Yard, Density, and Height
Requirements text amendment with findings, Note to the Table, Marinas with 40
or more wet boat slips in this district may have dry storage buildings with a
maximum height of no more than 50 feet.
 
Discussion
Per Alderman Mosteller’s request, verbatim comments provided in their entirety:
I appreciate the work of the Planning Board, staff and the citizens that have
shared their concerns.
I am still struggling to understand why our Board would consider approving this
special interest height exemption.
We would not be here considering this text amendment if the City was not trying
to sell land to the Preston Group. In order to execute a one-time sale of a
city property, we are now considering the Cary based Preston Group’s demand for
an exemption from the Business District height restriction for dry storage
buildings.
In my struggle to understand, I called the School of Government. This is where
professionals go to get advice on all things government. I was able to speak
with David Owens.
Mr. Owens is considered one of the foremost experts on zoning in North
Carolina. He wrote the book, “Land Use Law in North Carolina”.
Again, trying to understand how we got here, I started at the beginning. We
know that in order to approve the sale of the West West property, our Board
voted to repeal UDO Article 3-10 effective retroactively. And then immediately
made a second motion to take an action to sell the West West property based on
the repeal to amend that text. The repeal of Article 3-10 eliminated the
Planning Board’s required participation in the process of selling public
property.
I confirmed with Mr. Owens, there are three steps required by law in order to
make any text amendment to the UDO:
   1) the Planning Board must review it and make a recommendation to the Board
of Aldermen for our consideration
   2) A public hearing must be held
   3) then the Board of Aldermen can vote to approve the text amendment.
And this is the part I have struggled to wrap around. If these steps are
legally required to amend the UDO, then how can the Board of Aldermen
circumvent this process by moving to retroactively change text in the UDO and
then immediately moving to take an action based on that amendment? According to
my conversation with the representative from the School of Government, the
actions taken by our Board back in February of this year disregarded this
process.
Mr. Owens said that once you do the Planning Board review, notice and hearing,
then and only then can you do the amendment to take that provision out and
then, once it’s out, it’s out. When it is effective, and that process is
amended, then you follow the amended process after the date that it’s amended,
not before that.
In other words, it makes sense that you must complete the process before you
take an action.
Mr. Owens also indicated that he did not know if you could make the change in
process retroactively effective. Going back and applying the amended process to
something that was done prior to the amendment at least raises some questions.
Mr. Owens said it was a murky area of the law and he was not sure taking action
before the process was complete, was clearly illegal but, it does raise a
question mark.
The second question I asked him about was about the Preston Group’s special
interest height exemption text amendment, that the Board is considering this
evening - a 50’ height exemption for the benefit of one business, contractually
motivated by the sale of city property. I asked Mr. Owens, is it a typical
zoning practice to create a height exception for the benefit of one property
owner?
Mr. Owens said he had not seen it done this way, usually the text for a
particular district would typically have the height limit as a standard for
that zoning district. Mr. Owens went on to say, normally, if you want to get
into site specific standards, you do it through a conditional zoning process
rather than a text amendment or superscript. This text amendment in Mr. Owen’s
words would be “unusual.”
The third question I asked was, would this special interest text amendment set
a precedent for future property owners in the business district to build to 50
feet?
Mr. Owens answered, in a legal sense no, but in a political sense yes.
Politically meaning …setting public policy. Property owners could say if 50
feet was ok for this use, why can’t I have 50’ also? If it’s good for the
goose, it’s good for the gander.
Mr. Owens said, and I quote, “Once you create an exception for one thing, that
just creates the demand for more exceptions.”
The Planning Board is in agreement with Mr. Owens and unanimously voted to not
recommend this text amendment. John Allen is our former City Planner and
currently serves as a member of the Planning Board. Mr. Allen spoke on behalf
of the Planning Board at the public hearing last month stating that “the
proposed text amendment has the potential to create a patchwork of specific
rules that serve to slowly undercut the existing height limit. And he said he
believed this was neither good planning nor good public policy.”
In 2007, the Board of Aldermen assured that the 50’ height exception for
rebuilding the Dry Storage Building could never be considered a precedent, by
eliminating the ability to get a height variance through the conditional use
permit process. At that time, the Board recognized the importance of height and
the need for height to be uniformly administered within each zoning
designation.
Let’s be clear, our current business district zoning allows the Preston Group
to build a Marina Dry Storage Building to 40 feet. Tonight, we are considering
giving the Preston Group a height exemption to build to 50 feet. In the future,
how do we say no to our waterfront restaurants, when they say we are maxed out,
we can’t expand, we would like to add another story and we need to build to 50
feet to do that?
I ended my conversation with Mr. Owens by reading him the section in the
original offer to purchase document accepted by the Board in February of this
year…. it states that, “Preston Group’s purchase contingencies are based on
receiving all necessary City, State and Federal approvals and permits to
construct a 50’ tall dry storage building” and also says “Seller will cooperate
with Buyers pursuit of approvals, easements, and rights of way as required for
Buyer’s Intended Use.”
When I talked about this document with Mr. Owens, he referred to the word
“cooperate” as the weasel word and he said this seemed uncomfortably close to
the line of the city promising to take regulatory action in return for the
sale. And, the city should avoid even the appearance of doing that.
Earlier today, I had the opportunity to speak with Mike, our city attorney and
because the final contract did not have the stipulation that the city would
cooperate with the buyer regarding the zoning change, Mike said, the city is
not obligated to give the Preston Group this text amendment. But the Preston
Group’s intention was clear.
The city staff and Planning Board are currently working to update the UDO and
these updates are due for consideration in April of next year. And tonight, we
are again considering reaching into the UDO for the benefit of one property
owner, the Cary based Preston Group and giving them a height exemption that we
do not want to give to other Business owners.
Please understand I appreciate the Southport Marina and I do not hold the
Preston Group accountable for the actions of the Board. The Preston Group is
just being entrepreneurial. There is no question, our community recognizes that
the Southport Marina is successful and a good corporate citizen. Fortunately,
Southport has some amazing business owners that bring value to our community.
With that said, being a good corporate citizen is not the criteria for giving
UDO text amendments and height exemptions.
It is the Board of Aldermen, that is accountable for disregarding the
recommendations of the Planning Board to help facilitate the sale of a piece of
city property, in defiance of the city’s zoning plan.
Whether they are given a 50-foot exemption, or this Board maintains the maximum
height of 40 feet in the Business District, do we really think the Preston
Group will not purchase 2 ½ acres of contiguous water access property for the
bargain price of $650,000 dollars?
Back in February, $650,000 may have seemed like a lot of money to some of the
members of the Board, who were concerned with the impact of Florence on the
city’s budget. But we just completed the $8,000,000 annual general fund budget
for 2019 - 2020 and know that we are on track with projected FEMA
reimbursements to meet the 30% surplus that the state prefers; without the sale
of this property.
And if the Preston Group decides to not purchase the land because the city did
not give them the special height exemption to allow them to build to 50 feet,
the Board would then have the opportunity to offer the property up for sale on
the open market and frame the terms of the sale to maximize the benefits for
the citizens of Southport.
Ms. Sweeney could not be here tonight but as the adjacent property owner with
acres of property zoned R-10, she attended the Planning Board meeting and has
twice attended our Board meetings to ask us not to allow the 50-foot exemption
on the business zoned property next to her residentially zoned property. It is
the right of the citizens of Southport with residential property adjacent to
properties zoned business, to expect that the Business District height
requirements are consistent. It is the right of other business owners in the
Business District to expect a level playing field.
When a representative of the School of Government uses words like raises a
question, precedent and murky when discussing potential actions that we as a
Board have considered or are considering - we should pause.
Mr. Owens words bear repeating “Once you create an exception for one thing,
that just creates the demand for more exceptions.”
We cannot make good zoning decisions by doing an end run around our own zoning
policy to give an individual business a special exemption benefit at the
expense of the citizens of Southport and our city’s future.
Approval tonight will set a precedent. In the future, what do we say to other
business owners? Currently, no precedent exists but if we approve this text
amendment, we will be setting the precedent for future 50-foot structures.
It is the right of the citizens that live next to properties zoned business and
the citizens in this room to believe we serve them too.
I would ask that we stay the course and trust the zoning principles that will
protect our future. We are a small town, here at the mouth of the Cape Fear.
We need to be thoughtful and intentional about the decisions we make so we do
not look back and realize we have given away that which makes Southport so
special.
Please do not approve this text amendment.
Stating that he had also spoken with Mr. Owens of the School of Government,
City Attorney Isenberg declared that the City did not accept any proposal or
contract with the word “cooperate” in it, and that the signed contract did not
require the City to take any action in regard to the Purchaser’s applications.
He stated that Mr. Owens said the proposed text amendment was not contract
zoning as contract zoning would be when the City contracts itself to take some
legislative action in return for a property owner building something or taking
some action. Attorney Isenberg emphasized that the Board was not obligated to
do anything, it did not have to pass the text amendment, and would not be in
breach of the purchase contract if the text amendment was not passed. Attorney
Isenberg added that Mr. Owens stated that the way the Board is considering the
text amendment, as a footnote to the Table of Area, Yard, Density & Height
Requirements, is unusual, but he had no doubt it was legal as long as a Public
Hearing was held and the process was followed. Attorney Isenberg reiterated
that the purchase contract did not require the Board to do anything.
VOTE
Aye:   Aldermen Tucker, Powell, Pukenas, Sharkey, Spencer
Nay:   Alderman Mosteller
Motion Passed 5-1
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING ARTICLE 11 TABLE OF AREA YARD & DENSITY OF THE
CITY OF SOUTHPORT UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
   THAT WHEREAS, the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance and other
land use ordinances that control land development within both the City’s
incorporated areas and within its extraterritorial area; and
   WHEREAS, in order to promote the public health, safety and general welfare
and to promote the best interest of the city and community, it is necessary for
the City Board of Aldermen from time to time to consider appropriate revisions,
modifications and additions to the city’s land use ordinances; and
   WHEREAS, Southport Marina has filed an application for an UDO text amendment
to amend Article 11 of the Unified Development Ordinance to add a footnote to
the Article 11 Table of Yard, Area, Density and Height Requirements to allow
Marina dry storage buildings to have a height of 50 feet in the BD District;
and
   WHEREAS, the Planning Board has reviewed this matter and found that the
proposed amendment to Article 11 of the Unified Development Ordinance to be
inconsistent with the City of Southport CAMA Core Land Use Plan and does not
recommend its approval; and
   WHEREAS, pursuant to N. C. General Statutes and city ordinances, a public
hearing, properly noticed, was held on July 11, 2019 before the Board of
Aldermen regarding this issue; and
   WHEREAS, after considering the public hearing response, the concerns of the
public, the recommendation of the Planning Board, together with the comments of
staff, and after full discussion, the Board of Aldermen finds that the footnote
to Article 11 as requested by the applicant should be limited to marinas in the
BD District with 40 or more wet boat slips; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen, after considering the public hearing
response and the recommendation of the Planning Board, together with the
comments of staff, hereby finds that this text amendment is consistent with the
2015 CAMA Land Use Plan for the reasons stated in its Statement of Plan
Consistency attached hereto and incorporated herein; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that this amendment is
reasonable and in the public interest because there is a precedent for 50 foot
marina dry storage buildings in the BD District, 50 ft high marina dry storage
buildings will accommodate the need for more boat storage in the city, which
will encourage tourism and related recreational activities contributing to the
local economy, and they will provide safer and more direct access to the water
for recreation.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that
Article 11 the Southport Unified Development Ordinance is hereby amended as
follows on Exhibit A attached.
This, the 8th day of August 2019.             City of Southport
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk    
Exhibit A
Changes Highlighted
ARTICLE 11.   TABLE OF AREA, YARD, DENSITY, AND HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS (see
Section 11-1, Notes 1-4)         
           Minimum Net
           Buildable              Front Yard                      Height
          Area        Yard Width (see Note  Rear Yard Side Yard  (see Note 3,
District   (Square                4, Section                      Section 11-
           Feet)                  11-1)                           1)
           1
R-10       10,000      75         25         20        8          40
R-20       20,000      100        40         25        12         40
MF         13,750 2  99         25         20        8          40
MH
-MH Parks  3 Ac.       75         25         20        25         40
-RV Parks  1 Ac.       75         25         20        25         40
-MH on     5,000       50         20         20        4          40
single lot
PUD        6           3         3         3        3         3 
O/I        12,000      70         25         15        10         40
CBD        0           0          0          0         0 or 4 ft. 40
BD         0           0          25         10        0          407
HC         10,000      75         25         204       8          40
LI         10,000      75         25         204       8          50
HI         43,560      100        25         255       15         100
OS         None        None       None       None      None       None
 
1 Nonconforming lots which are located in the Southport Historic Area may be
granted rear and side yard setbacks proportionate to the size of the lot.
Example: If a 10,000 square foot lot is required and the lot is 6,000 square
feet, a forty (40) percent reduction is allowed.
2 For the first two (2) units, plus an additional 3,300 square feet shall be
added to the lot for each dwelling unit.
3 Shall be determined based upon the requirements of Land U se Plan approval
issued by the Board of Aldermen.
4 Where rear yards abut residential areas 25 feet.
5 70-foot rear yard where abutting residential district. A fence or plant
buffer should be provided where abutting a residential area.
6 8 acres in city limits
25 acres in Extra Territorial Jurisdiction (ETJ)
7 Marinas with 40 or more wet boat slips in this district may have dry storage
buildings with a maximum height of no more than 50 feet
[Image]
City of Southport Board of Aldermen
Statement of Plan Consistency
(As per NC General Statute 160A-383)
Zoning regulations shall be made in accordance with a comprehensive plan. Prior
to adopting or rejecting any zoning amendment, the governing board shall adopt
one of the following statements which shall not be subject to judicial review;
1) A statement approving the zoning amendment and describing its consistency
with an adopted comprehensive plan and explaining why the action taken is
reasonable and in the public interest. 2) A statement rejecting the zoning
amendment and describing its inconsistency with an adopted comprehensive plan
and explaining why the action taken is reasonable and in the public interest.
3) A statement approving the zoning amendment and containing at least all of
the following: 1) A declaration that the approval is also deemed an amendment
to the comprehensive plan. 2) An explanation of the change in conditions the
governing board took into account in amending the zoning ordinance to meet the
development needs of the community. 3) why the action was reasonable and in the
public interest.
      (NCGS 160A-383)
ZONING AMENDMENT:         ZA-19-0408-01
STATEMENT OF CONSISTENCY AND RECCOMENDATION:
The City of Southport Board of Aldermen hereby finds that the proposed zoning
text amendment amending Article 11 of the Unified Development Ordinance is
consistent with the 2015 CAMA Land Use Plan adopted November 13, 2014. The
Board of Aldermen finds that the proposed amendment is consistent with goals
and policies in the 2015 CAMA Land Use. More specifically, the text amendment
allowing 50 foot marina dry storage buildings is consistent with the following
policies: the city supports all efforts to maintain the Southport Marina as a
public access facility in perpetuity (p.5), the city supports tourism and
recreational related developments that protect and preserve the natural
environment while promoting the City as a tourist destination (p. 1), Southport
recognizes that tourism is important and will support activities that promote
tourism (p. 89). In order to promote the best interest of the city, it is
necessary for the Board of Aldermen to consider appropriate revisions,
modifications, and additions to the City’s Land Development Ordinance. The
amendment is reasonable and in the public interest because it will not
adversely affect the use of adjoining properties, there is a precedent for 50
foot marina dry storage buildings, 50 ft high marina dry storage buildings will
accommodate the need for more boat storage in the city, and they will provide
safer and more direct access to the water for recreation. At their meeting on
August 8th, 2019, the Board of Aldermen found that the proposed amendment is
CONSISTENT with the overall goals, objectives, and policies, of the 2015 CAMA
Land Use Plan.
         The statement and motion was seconded and passed 5-1.
                              /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
/s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
   5.   Contract Amendment, Southport Marina Agreement for Sale and Purchase of
Real Property
City Manager Oakley reported that Southport Marina has requested a contract
amendment to the agreement for purchase of real property in the form of an
extension of the examination period. He pointed out that the Marina is paying
an additional fee for the extension.
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Spencer to approve the contract
amendment.
VOTE
Aye:   Aldermen Powell, Spencer, Sharkey, Pukenas, Tucker
Nay:   Alderman Mosteller
Motion Carried 5-1
NORTH CAROLINA
                                       CONTRACT AMENDMENT
BRUNSWICK COUNTY
   THIS AMENDMENT to the Agreement for Sale and Purchase of Real Property is
made and entered into this the 8th day of August, 2019, by and between the City
of Southport, a body politic and corporate of the State of North Carolina,
(hereinafter referred to as “City”), and Southport Marina, Inc., (hereinafter
referred to as “Buyer”);
                     WITNESSETH:
   THAT WHEREAS, the parties entered into an Agreement for Sale and Purchase of
Real Property (Southport former wastewater treatment plant site) effective
March 18, 2019; and
   WHEREAS, said Agreement provided for Buyer an examination period beginning
on the date of the Agreement and extending through August 15, 2019, at 5:00 pm;
and
   Whereas, Buyer, in order to complete the examination of the Property, needs
more time and has requested City to extend the examination period; and
   Whereas, City has agreed to extend said period upon the terms and conditions
hereinafter set out;
   Now, therefore, for valuable consideration, the parties do hereby agree and
covenant as follows:
   1.   Within 5 days of the execution of this contract amendment, Buyer shall
pay to City a fee of $ 2,000 as consideration for the agreement of City to
extend the examination period set forth in Section 1(e) of the Agreement. In
the event of closing, this fee shall be applied towards the purchase price of
the Property and credited to Buyer. In the event that Buyer elects not purchase
the Property for any reason, this fee shall be retained by City as
consideration for the extension granted herein.
   2.   Upon payment of the above-referenced fee, the examination period
provided for in Section 1(e) of the Agreement is hereby extended through 5:00
pm on November 15, 2019.
   3.   Upon payment of an additional fee of $ $2,000 on or before November 15,
2019, Buyer shall be entitled to one further extension of the examination
period through February 15, 2020. In the event of closing, this fee shall also
be applied towards the purchase price of the Property and credited to Buyer. In
the event that Buyer elects not purchase the Property for any reason, this fee
shall also be retained by City as consideration for the extension granted
herein.
   4.   Except as specifically set forth herein, all other terms and conditions
of the original Agreement shall remain unchanged and in full force and effect.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this instrument effective the day
and year first above written.
   Southport Marina, Inc.                  City of Southport
                  
   BY: /s/ Bubba Rawl, Owner, Preston Group            BY: J. V. Dove, Mayor
   6.   Appointment(s) to ABC Board
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Spencer to re-appoint Mr.
Harold Spencer to the ABC Board. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   7.   Appointment(s) to Board of Adjustment
   Alderman Pukenas motioned, second by Alderman Spencer to re-appoint Mr.
Harley Lemons to the Board of Adjustment. Unanimous vote motion carried.
   Committee Reports - None
   Project Report
   City Manager Oakley reported that the consultants for the City Dock project
have completed the application packet for submittal and will be utilizing the
fast track submittal method.
   City Manager Oakley reported that he had attended a scoping meeting with
CAMA and the Corps of Engineers regarding the Waterfront Stabilization Project.
He added that a permit application is being prepared for the project and it is
anticipated that submittal will be within the next two (2) months.
   Responding to a query by Mayor Dove, City Manager Oakley reported that a
response to the grant submittal for Taylor Field is expected August 23.
Staff Reports – provided in Agenda packet
Board Comments
   Alderman Mosteller further promoted the Caturday Festival to be held August
31 in Franklin Square Park.
   Alderman Spencer stated his concerns about citizens experiencing a hardship
because of the sewer rate increase. He reasoned that the cost of living in
Southport was becoming too high for those born and raised in Southport and
young families.
   Alderman Pukenas suggested future consideration of a revision to the Golf
Cart Ordinance requiring for all golf carts to be inspected by the Southport
Police Department. He stated that a city inspection should not be required if a
golf cart is registered and tagged with the North Carolina Department of Motor
Vehicles.
ADJOURN
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to adjourn the August
8, 2019 meeting. Unanimous vote; motion carried. Meeting adjourned at 7:14 p.m.
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk                         
SEPTEMBER 12, 2019
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING SEPTEMBER 12, 2019
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Rick Pukenas, Lora Sharkey, Karen Mosteller,
            Marc Spencer, Robert Tucker, Jim Powell
STAFF PRESENT:      Bruce Oakley, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director   
   Todd Coring, Police Chief
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   David Fox, Public Works Director
   Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
   Randy Jones, Tourism Director
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   John Micheletto, Codes Administrator
   Thomas Lloyd, Planner
   Kate Marshall, Animal Protective Services/Code Enforcement Officer
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Dove called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Mosteller welcomed everyone and Chief Drew gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Mosteller led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Announcements
   Mayor Dove expressed appreciation to City staff for serving the citizens of
Southport during Hurricane Dorian.
   City Manager Oakley spoke about Hurricane Dorian.
   A 24-hour power outage occurred;
   During the outage he was in contact with Brunswick Electric Membership Corp.
(BEMC) and Duke Energy;
   He contacted Senator Rabon who was in contact with the CEO of Duke Energy;
   Duke Energy’s main feeder line to Southport went down and there were
subsequent issues getting the substation back online;
   Meetings will be scheduled with BEMC, North Carolina Eastern Municipal Power
Agency (NCEMPA) and Duke Energy to discuss outages, in an effort to improve
communications and response during an emergency event.
   Noting that Southport sustained minimal damage from Hurricane Dorian, City
Manager Oakley commended city staff for their work prior, during and after the
storm. He pointed out that a lot of work occurs during storms that is not
visible to the general public, i.e. employees leave their families to make sure
calls were answered and public safety was ensured; fire, rescue and law
enforcement officers slept on cots, and Public Services employees were out near
the peak of the storm to make sure the sewer lift stations were operating
properly. He noted that many employees went beyond the call of duty, such as
the Public Services employees, who during their lunch period, and after hours,
assisted senior citizens preparing their homes for the storm. Additionally,
long hours have been spent documenting every penny spent for reimbursement
purposes.
   City Manager Oakley reported that the Emergency Operations Center (EOC) ran
efficiently at all times with staff rotating in and out, there were designated
scribes who documented every incident and action during the event, and the City
was able to get out clear, concise information thanks to the Public Information
Officer.
   City Manager Oakley thanked citizens for their patience during the event and
he touched on the need for a curfew during the storm. He noted that the storm
was predicted to be worse than it was, it was expected to make landfall at high
tide, and situations were occurring with sightseers putting themselves in
harm’s way.
   City Manager Oakley stated that storm debris would be picked up by city
staff and the normal schedule for yard debris pick up by Brush Bandit would
resume the week of September 16.
   Alderman Mosteller announced that the Beautification Committee “This is Our
Town” cleanup would be held Saturday, September 14, beginning at 9:00 a.m.
   Alderman Mosteller stated a reminder that the Forestry Committee maintains a
web page and is a great resource for any questions. She added that the web page
has information pertaining to the effects of Hurricane Florence on Southport’s
trees.
   Alderman Mosteller announced that the annual Peace Day event would be held
Saturday, September 21 in Franklin Square Park, 2:00 – 4:00 p.m. Mayor Dove
read and presented the Resolution in Support of International Day of Peace to
Ms. Marjorie Jones.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2070.png]
SOUTHPORT RESOLUTION IN SUPPORT OF INTERNATIONAL DAY OF PEACE
WHEREAS, The United Nations in 1981 established a yearly International Day of
Peace, a day devoted to strengthening the ideals of peace both within and among
all nations and people; and
WHEREAS, The International Day of Peace is now observed around the world each
year on September 20 to put aside all that separates us and to experience
peace; and
WHERE, in 1984, the General Assembly adopted the Declaration on the Right of
Peoples to Peace; and
WHEREAS, Southport residents are coordinating a celebration of the
International Day of Peace on a local level; and
WHEREAS, Peace Day Southport promotes world peace, local peace and inner peace
through art, education and celebration; and
WHEREAS, the Celebration of Peace will be held and will include songs, dances,
art, informational booths, exhibits, children’s crafts, and a Peace Pilgrim
film; and
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Mayor and Southport Board of Aldermen
on this the 12th day of September 2019, hereby proclaim Saturday, September 21,
2019 as “Peace Day” in the City of Southport and urge all citizens to join in
the festivities of this day and promote peace among all peoples.
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
 
   Alderman Powell recalled citizens’ public comments during the Board’s August
8 th meeting regarding utility rates. He read a prepared statement:
“Utility rates are sometimes a serious p   roblem with some of our citizens as
spoken in Public Comment at the Board’s last meeting. We want to make sure all
our citizens will live without threat of losing their ability to survive in our
city. I make a motion that we authorize the City Manager to develop a utility
payment and fund-raising vehicle that will ensure all citizens will be able to
survive in our community. Alderman Tucker seconded the motion. Unanimous vote;
motion carried.        
   Alderman Powell commended City staff for excellent service during Hurricane
Dorian. He spoke about the devastation that occurred to his relatives on
Ocracoke during the storm.
   Noting that the public is allotted three (3) minutes to speak during Public
Comment, Alderman Powell suggested limiting Aldermen’s comments to five (5)
minutes.
   Alderman Sharkey announced a volunteer opportunity on Friday, September 13.
Ms. Suzanne LaFollete-Black, AARP, explained that AARP and YMCA have partnered
with the City to undertake a street safety and beautification project. She
stated that approximately 25 volunteers, beginning at 10:00 a.m., Friday,
September 13 would paint a temporary crosswalk at Moore and Davis Streets. She
noted that the participants of the event would receive t-shirts, lunch provided
by Moore Street Market, and their efforts filmed to be shared on a national
AARP level.
   Alderman Sharkey announced that a new meeting hall would be open, beginning
September 16, at the former Police Department, 113 W. Moore Street, called the
Indian Trail Meeting Hall.
   Alderman Spencer raised concerns about an event being held by a local group,
Up Your Arts, that is advertised as a fund raiser for renovation of the former
City Hall, 201 E. Moore Street. He shared his knowledge that the Board had not
discussed or endorsed a renovation project for the structure. He suggested
further dialogue on the matter. City Manager Oakley reported that the group had
been promoting the effort and had recently reached out to the City Clerk to
schedule a presentation to the Board during their October regular meeting.
   Alderman Pukenas announced the following:
      Military Appreciation Day, September 14 at Southport Marina
      Maritime Museum final Hurricane Conference, Saturday, September 14
      September 27th Maritime Museum fund raiser, Rock on the River, on the
Garrison Lawn
E)   Approval of Agenda   
   Per applicants’ request, Mayor Dove asked for removal of Agenda Items 7
through 10.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to approve the Agenda
as amended. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Dove stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
F)   Public Comment
   Ms. Debbie Barnes, 425 W. West Street, stated appreciation to city staff for
all their hard work during Hurricane Dorian, for a picture-perfect Military
Appreciation Day, and the city’s efforts toward automation of utility bills.
She shared her concerns about citizens struggling to pay their utilities and
suggested the Board consider tiering the rates, teaching conservation, or
possibly grandfathering senior citizens costs. Ms. Barnes spoke about the
proposed construction of a wastewater treatment plant and rumors in the
community causing a good deal of confusion. She suggested the Board hold a
joint meeting with Brunswick County to inform the public and allow for
questions.
   Ms. Gloria Jones, 113 W. St. George Street, thanked the Board for supporting
the 1 st  Caturday event in Franklin Square Park August 31. She stated the
event was a success and The Southport Friends of Ferals will continue their
work to ensure every community cat is spayed, neutered and has their shots.
   Ms. Lowe Davis, 504 W. Brunswick Street, praised the Fire Department 911
memorial and spoke of a friend’s experience in the World Trade Center September
11, 2001. Ms. Davis implored everyone to remember that fateful day and to
remember that when the call comes, firefighters never know what they may face.
   Ms. Yvonne Moody, 609 Marsh Grass Court, expressed concerns that house
numbers are not displayed on all homes in the city.
   Mr. Eric Lappala, 215 W. Moore Street, stated his willingness to work with
the City and the applicants submitting rezoning requests in his neighborhood.
   Ms. Jennifer Fontaine, 5223 Shipmast Way, channeled a Joni Mitchell song and
stated support for the City/AARP planned temporary crosswalk on Moore Street.
Additionally, she spoke about tying conservation efforts to water and sewer
rates.
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Sharkey to approve the Consent
Agenda. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Approval of Minutes for August 8, 2019 Regular Meeting – approved
Resolution in Support of International Day of Peace – approved
Resolution Requesting the North Carolina Department of Transportation Undertake
a Beautification Enhancement Project on NC 211 -  approved
Right-of-Way Easement Agreement – approved  (agreement on file in the Clerk’s
office)
Assistant Director of Public Services – approved  (position description on file
in the Clerk’s office)
Revision; Code of Ordinances, Section 17-80 – Golf Carts (B) Registration and
Permit Requirements – approved
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2065_1859x1663.jpg]
 
A RESOLUTION REQUESTING THE NORTH CAROLINA DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
UNDERTAKE A BEAUTIFICATION ENHANCEMENT PROJECT ON NC 211
WHEREAS, the safe use of roads and highways is of utmost importance to not only
the citizens of Southport, but also to our visitors from this great State and
other states and countries; and
WHEREAS, the City of Southport desires safety and beautification improvements
along the NC 211 corridor inside the municipal boundaries; and
WHEREAS, the City of Southport desires to work in concert with the North
Carolina Department of Transportation to develop a vision for enhancements to
Howe Street and E/W West Street, including a crosswalk, for the state-
maintained road; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport, North Carolina, that the City of Southport commits to support the
pursuit of design and implementation of beautification enhancements along the
NC Highway 211 corridor, and commits to maintain the project and enforce any no
parking areas associated with it.
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, September 12,
2019.
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
Exhibit A
Additions Highlighted
Deletions in Strikethrough
Sec. 17-80. - Golf carts.
REGISTRATION AND PERMIT REQUIREMENTS
Registration and Permit required. In order to operate a golf cart in the
corporate limits of the City of Southport under this section, the golf cart
must be registered annually with the City of Southport using an application
furnished by the city. A twenty-five dollar ($25.00) per year registration fee,
from July 1 through June 30, must be paid to the City before a registration
sticker is issued. The registration sticker must be displayed on the left rear
fender of the golf cart. Low speed vehicles subject to state regulation and
licenses will be exempt from a permit and inspection., but the City of
Southport requests low speed vehicle owners to register with the City and
obtain a sticker free of charge so the City can maintain an accurate count of
low speed vehicles in Southport.  
AGENDA
7.   Public Hearing Zoning Map Amendments, R-10 (Residential) to BD (B7siness
District), Yacht Basin Area Along W. Moore Street, S. Caswell Avenue and W. Bay
Street, Parcel # 237LF001, 237LF002, 237LF003 and 237LF004, RZ 19-0517-01, RZ
19-0524-01, RZ 19-0709-01
   a.   RZ 19-0517-01, Parcel #237LF001 & 237LF002, Corner of W. Bay Street &
S. Caswell Avenue, .48 acres, James Chirico
      Item withdrawn by the applicant.
   b.   RZ 19-0524-01, Parcel #237LF003, Corner of W. Moore Street & South
Caswell Avenue, .36 acres, Southport Waterfront Properties, LLC, Mark Brisson
      Item withdrawn by the applicant.
   c.   RZ 19-0709-01, Parcel # 237LF004, 309 W. Moore Street, .32 acres, Paul
& Maria Swenson
      Item withdrawn by the applicant.
8.   Consideration, Agenda Item 7. a. – removed from agenda
9.   Consideration, Agenda Item 7. b. – removed from agenda
10.   Consideration, Agenda Item 7. c. – removed from agenda
11.   Consideration; Request by the League of Women Voters of the Lower Cape
Fear, Waive Fee for Use of the Community Building, Thursday, October 3
   Alderman Sharkey pointed out that the League of Women Voters provide a free,
open to all, candidate forum and have asked for the fee to be waived for use of
the Community Building. She suggested that in lieu of waiving the fee, that a
budget transfer be made.
   Alderman Sharkey motioned, second by Alderman Spencer to authorize a budget
transfer in the amount of $100 from the Board budget to the Community Building
budget. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
12.   Appointment(s) to Forestry Committee
   Alderman Mosteller motioned, second by Alderman Sharkey to reappoint Mr.
Harry Singley and appoint Ms. Jean French Turner to the Forestry Committee.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Committee Reports - None
Project Report
   City Manager Oakley reported that the October meeting of the Board of
Aldermen would be held at the Rivermist Subdivision Amenity Center, 5211 Flank
Court.
   City Manager Oakley reported that Ms. Kate Marshall, Animal Protective
Services/Code Enforcement Officer, had been granted a $1,500 Maddie’s Fund
scholarship to attend the 2019 National Animal Care & Control Association
Training Conference in Orlando, Florida, October 9, 10 &11.
   City Manager Oakley reported that the City was not awarded a PARTF Grant for
the Taylor Field project.
   Staff Reports – provided in Agenda packet
   City Planner Lloyd reported that the Planning Board monthly meetings would
be held at the new Indian Trail Meeting Hall, 113 W. Moore Street, beginning
September 19.
   Tourism Director Jones introduced Ms. Lisa Anderson, part-time information
specialist. Ms. Anderson reported that the Fire Department 911 Memorial was
posted to the City’s Facebook Page and reached 175,000 people, 25,000
engagements, and 12,000 reactions. She stated that all comments received were
positive and appreciative.
   Chief Coring stated appreciation to citizens for their patience with all
emergency personnel during Hurricane Dorian and for adhering to the curfew. He
indicated that he posted pictures and videos during the storm to keep people
apprised of the conditions.
Board Comments
   Alderman Spencer announced that Free Dump Week would be held September 16 th
through 20 th at Taylor Field.
   Alderman Spencer praised employee Tom Stanley with the Public Works
Department.
   Alderman Sharkey commended city staff for their 110% devotion and teamwork
for the City.
   Pointing out that utility rates would likely have to be raised for
construction of a wastewater treatment plant or partnering with Brunswick
County for the services, Alderman Sharkey stated the Rate Committee would look
for ways to assist citizens, on fixed incomes, with their utility bills.
   Alderman Mosteller stated that she is grateful for city staff, especially in
times of extreme conditions.
ADJOURN
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Tucker to adjourn the September
12, 2019 meeting. Unanimous vote; motion carried. Meeting adjourned at 7:02
p.m.
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
OCTOBER 10, 2019
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN           REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
RIVERMIST AMENITY CENTER  OCTOBER 10, 2019
5211 FLANK COURT            SOUTHPORT, N.C.
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Rick Pukenas, Lora Sharkey, Karen Mosteller,
            Marc Spencer, Robert Tucker, Jim Powell
 
STAFF PRESENT:      Bruce Oakley, City Manager
            Michele Windham, City Clerk
            Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
            Melanie Trexler, Finance Director   
            Todd Coring, Police Chief
            Charles Drew, Fire Chief
            David Fox, Public Works Director
            Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
            Randy Jones, Tourism Director
            B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
            Thomas Lloyd, Planner
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
   Mayor Dove called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
   Alderman Tucker welcomed everyone, and Chief Drew gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Tucker led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Announcements
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Tucker to adopt the following
Resolution Regarding Location of Southport Wastewater Treatment Plant.
Unanimous vote; motion carried. Mayor Dove read the resolution into the record.
RESOLUTION
REGARDING LOCATION OF SOUTHPORT WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
   THAT WHEREAS, in order to better serve its’ citizens, residents and property
owners, the City of Southport finds it necessary and in the public interest to
construct a new wastewater treatment plant; and
   WHEREAS, the City currently owns a large tract of land containing over 400
acres located east of Hwy 87 and north of Bethel Church Road in Brunswick
County; and
   WHEREAS, said tract of land is suitable for the location of a wastewater
treatment plant; and
   WHEREAS, the portion of said tract located adjacent to Bethel Church Road is
located near property which is currently developed for residential use with
many persons living nearby; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen feels that it is preferable and desirable
that the wastewater treatment plant be located in the northwestern portion of
the City’s property or in another area which would not affect the homeowners
living along or near Bethel Church Road;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen that it direct the
City’s engineers, Hazen & Sawyer, to focus on and find a suitable location for
the new Southport wastewater treatment plant in the northwest portion of the
City’s property or other area located further away from Bethel Church Road.
   This the 10th day of October, 2019.      City of Southport
                     /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk   
Alderman Pukenas announced the following Proclamation, read the resolution into
the record, and along with Mayor Dove, presented the resolution to Mr. Chris
Schnell.
[Image]
PROCLAMATION
WHEREAS, on Saturday, November 2, 2019 the Southport Wooden Boat Show will be
held at the Old Southport Yacht Basin; and
WHEREAS, the 10th Anniversary of the Annual Southport Wooden Boat Show, a 501
(c) 3 organization will be held from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m.; and
WHEREAS, this year’s show is expected to be bigger and better than the previous
events with more boats, demonstrators, nautical/maritime exhibits and children
events; and
WHEREAS, boats will be displayed in and around the historic Old Yacht Basin;
and
WHEREAS, visitors can meet and talk with wooden boat makers and owners; and
WHEREAS, visitors will be able to vote for their favorite boat entrant for the
People’s Choice Award, and
WHEREAS, other awards will be given in various categories; and
WHEREAS, wooden boat shows across the country are popular with boat builders
and restorers; and
WHEREAS, the Southport Wooden Boat Show Committee encourages people to preserve
the wooden boat and nautical history for which Southport is known.
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Mayor and Southport Board of Aldermen
on this the 10th day of October, hereby proclaim November 2, 2019 as the
Southport 10th Anniversary Wooden Boat Show Day in the City of Southport and
invite citizens and surrounding communities to help make this Southport
signature event a success.
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor      
/s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
Mr. Schnell expressed his gratitude for the Board and City’s support of the
event, the services provided by the Fire/Rescue and Police departments and the
patience of the neighborhood residents.
Mayor Dove read the Breast Cancer Awareness Resolution into the record and
presented to Fire Chief Drew:
City of Southport
Fire Department
   WHEREAS, cancer affects millions of people all over the world, and the fact
that there is a proven correlation between firefighting and cancer, confirm
both the need to eradicate the terrible disease and, until a cure is found,
promote prevention, and help alleviate the suffering of its victims; and
   WHEREAS, in 2019 the American Cancer Society expected about 2 million new
cancers to be diagnosed in the United States. This year nearly 600,000
Americans are expected to die of cancer, more than 1,500 people a day; and
   WHEREAS, cancer is one of the deadliest diseases of all. We need to come
together to fight it. Those of us who haven’t been affected, need to step up
and promote prevention, early detection, and urge women to have routine
checkups and mammograms.
   WHEREAS, Southport Fire Fighters normally wear blue shirts 365 days a year.
For the month of October, they will don pink shirts to show their support of
breast cancer awareness, early detection, and prevention of the horrible
disease.
   THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the SOUTHPORT FIRE DEPARTMENT gives an image
of hope and encouragement to those battling breast cancer. The department
stands united with them, you are not alone in your fight. The City of Southport
encourages, recognizes, and supports the Southport Fire Department in their
efforts of promoting early detection and prevention of breast cancer.
   BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Aldermen and Mayor of the City of Southport
implore all citizens to support efforts promoting early detection and
prevention of breast cancer.
Adopted this 10th day of October 2019
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk   
Alderman Pukenas announced the following:
Howl-O-Ween Bowser Bash pet costume contest, Sunday, October 27, 3:00 – 5:00
p.m. at Waterfront Park
Hotel Transylvania movie on the Garrison Lawn, Friday, October 25 as dusk
Living Voices From the Past, Saturday, October 26, 2:00 – 4:00 p.m. at
Smithville Burying Ground
Halloween Trunk or Treat, Thursday, October 31, 5:00 – 7:00 p.m. at Fire
Headquarters
Yacht Club Regatta, November 2 in the Yacht Basin
Alderman Mosteller announced that the next This is Our Town clean up is
scheduled for Saturday, November 2 and will focus on Fall planting.
Alderman Mosteller stated a reminder that the Southport Forestry Committee has
a web page at www.southporttrees.com . She spoke about the stress put on
Southport’s trees from Hurricane Florence and that the effects will continue
for several years.
E)   Approval of Agenda   
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Sharkey to approve the Agenda.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Dove stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
No conflicts stated.
F)   Public Comment
   Mr. Tom Lombardi, 5021 Oarlock Court, welcomed the Board to the Rivermist
Amenity Center and thanked them for all their hard work.
   Dr. Joe Pat Hatem, 610 W. Brown Street, stated appreciation for adoption of
the Breast Cancer Awareness Resolution and endorsed the Up Your Arts proposed
plan for renovation of the former City Hall, 201 E. Moore Street.
   Ms. Lori Sanderlin, Director of the Maritime Museum at Southport, thanked
the Board for their continued support of the museum, she spoke about the new
exhibits, and she invited the Board to attend the Grand Opening October 12 of a
new hurricane exhibit, The Deadly Dozen.
   Ms. Jennifer Fontaine, 5223 Shipmast Way, asked the Board to consider
additional ways to disseminate information to the citizens of Southport.
   Mr. Nick Kern, 415 N. Burrington Avenue, urged the Board to consider all
viable options for the renovation of the former City Hall.
   Mr. Jeff Holmstock, Skydive Coastal Carolina, spoke about a child battling
Wilms Disease and a fundraising challenge, Falling for Kyle, to raise $5,000
for the child’s medical care. Mr. Holmstock asked if a Board member would
endorse the fundraiser by skydiving when the goal was met. Alderman Pukenas
volunteered.
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to approve the Consent
Agenda. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
1.   Approval of Minutes for September 12, 2019 Regular Meeting – approved
2.   Proclamation; Southport Wooden Board Show – approved
3.   Resolution; Breast Cancer Awareness -  approved
4.   Ordinance; NCDOT, Establishing a Speed Limit of 25 mph on NC 211 (Moore &
Howe Streets) – approved
5.   Facility Use Agreement; Indian Trail Meeting Hall – approved
Ordinance Establishing a Speed Limit of 25 miles per hour on NC 211 (Moore
Street and Howe Street) between Rhett Street (non-system) and Brown Street
(non-system) and Requesting the North Carolina Department of Transportation To
Set a Speed Limit of 25 miles per hour
 WHEREAS, a portion of NC 211, a state road, is located within the municipal
limits of the City of Southport; and
WHEREAS, the City of Southport has determined pursuant to G. S. 20-141(f) that
the current speed limit on the portion of said road hereinafter described is
greater than what is reasonable and safe; and
WHEREAS, the Southport Board of Aldermen hereby determines and declares that 25
mph is a safe and reasonable speed limit on said road;
NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED by the Southport Board of Aldermen:
That the speed limit on NC 211 (Moore Street and Howe Street) between Rhett
Street (non-system) and Brown Street (non-system) is hereby set at 25 mph.
That this ordinance shall become effective when the Department of
Transportation has passed a concurring ordinance and signs are erected giving
notice of the authorized speed limit.
This the 10th day of October, 2019.         City of Southport
                     /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk                     
Indian Trail Meeting Hall
113 W. Moore Street, Southport, NC 28461
FACILITY USE AGREEMENT
Date of Application (Application is valid for one year)
_________________________________________
Name of Nonprofit
_____________________________________________________________________
Nonprofit Registration Identification Number
________________________________________________
Contact Person
________________________________________________________________________
Address
______________________________________________________________________________
Telephone __________________________ E-mail
____________________________________________
The applicant understands and agrees that a nonprofit organization using a City
facility is responsible for abiding by all rules and regulations set forth
Facility Use Policy, as may be amended from time to time. The applicant
acknowledges and understands that it is the responsibility of applicant to
verify the rules and regulations in effect at the time of use. Applicant hereby
agrees to release and indemnify and hold the City of Southport and its’
employees, staff and officials harmless from and against any and all claims,
suites, losses or related causes of action for damages or injuries arising from
the use of the Indian Trail Meeting Hall.
Signature
_____________________________________________________________________________
Printed Name
_________________________________________________________________________
INDIAN TRAIL MEETING HALL USE POLICY
STATEMENT OF PURPOSE
The Indian Trail Meeting Hall is maintained and operated exclusively to
facilitate municipal government in Southport and to enable the governmental and
proprietary functions of the City of Southport. It is the policy of the City of
Southport that every use of the Indian Trail Meeting Hall shall be for the
purpose of providing services to the citizens of Southport, by the City itself
through its officers, employees, agents, contractors, official town boards or
official ad hoc bodies, or through organizations which conform to the criteria
for “community use” as set forth below.
COMMUNITY USE OF INDIAN TRAIL MEETING HALL
Any use of the Indian Trail Meeting Hall other than by the City itself acting
through its officers, employees, agents, contractors, official town boards or
official ad hoc bodies, shall constitute a “community use.” A community use for
a purpose which the City of Southport itself is authorized to undertake and
which shall have the primary intent of enhancing generally the health, safety
and welfare of all the citizens of Southport, shall be allowed, subject too the
terms and conditions of this police. No other community use or other use of the
Indian Trail Meeting Hall shall be allowed.
INDIAN TRIAL MEETING HALL FACILITY AVAILABLE FOR COMMUNITY USE
Subject to availability, the facility shall be available for community use, on
a first-come, first-services basis. The official business of t he City of
Southport shall at all times have priority of use, and any scheduled community
use may be cancelled without notice in the event the official business of
Southport requires the use of the facility.
TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF COMMUNITY USE
Nonprofit organizations servicing the City of Southport and providing a non-
profit identification number, shall constitute a “local community user” under
this policy and may use the Indian Trail Meeting Hall facilities for purposes
herein authorized at no charge and without security deposit.
Political Activity
Political Campaigning or Political Organizing shall not be permitted as a
community use in the Indian Trail Meeting Hall.
Business Use
Use of the Indian Trail Meeting Hall by for-profit businesses, including but
not limited to sales events of other types of solicitation, shall not be
permitted as a community use.
Qualified Use
A community use otherwise permitted under this policy may be denied as to a
previous user responsible for damage to the facilities. In such case, the City
Manager in his/her sole discretion may deny the application.
MINIMUM REGULATIONS FOR COMMUNITY USE OF INDIAN TRAIL MEETING HALL:
Any community use of the Indian Trail Meeting Hall shall comply strictly with
the following regulations as a condition of use:
1.   Lock all exterior doors before leaving.
2.   Close and lock all windows.
3.   Turn off all indoor and outside lights before leaving.
4.   If the kitchen is used, assure that the kitchen sink is completely
drained, the refrigerator door is completely closed, and all appliances are
turned off, before leaving.
5.   Clear the facility of all refuse, using the trash receptacle for refuse
and the recycling receptacle for recyclables located at the side of the
building.
6.   Attach nothing to walls or furnishings using tacks or nails, or using
adhesives leaving residual adhesive traces.
7.   Return the facility to its original order as found.
8.   Remove all equipment or supplies brought by the user into the facilities.
9.   Do not use or display any advertisement, banner or sign on the exterior of
the building.
10.   Remove any perishable food items or other supplies brought by the user
into the facilities.
11.   Observe all applicable fire code regulations and ensure that all
attendees are aware of fire extinguishers and escape routes out of the Indian
Trail Meeting Hall.
12.   Do not permit the use of alcohol, tobacco, firearms or illegally
possessed controlled substances.
13.   Comply with all ordinances of the City of Southport and all laws of the
State of North Carolina.
AGENDA
6.   Public Hearing; Zoning Map Amendment, N. Lord Street & N. Caswell Avenue
Properties Currently Zoned BD, BD to R-10 RZ 19-0710-01
City Planner Lloyd explained that staff has initiated a zoning change for 16
commercial zoned parcels along Lord Street and Caswell Avenue. He pointed out
that the parcels are existing residential properties, all property owners have
been contacted, and those responding are supportive of the zoning map
amendment. He pointed out that the Planning Board had reviewed the proposed
zoning change and found it consistent with the CAMA Core Land Use Plan and
recommends that the Board of Aldermen approve the zoning amendment.
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to Open Public Hearing.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
A resident of Lord Street stated her support for the proposed zoning amendment.
An unidentified citizen, 1117 N. Lord Street, asked to look at the map
depicting the parcels to be rezoned. Planner Lloyd pointed out the area on the
map.
Alderman Powell motioned, second by Aldermen Tucker to Close Public Hearing.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.   
7.   Consideration, Zoning Amendment N. Lord Street & N. Caswell Avenue
Alderman Pukenas motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to adopt the zoning map
amendment and the statement of consistency. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
AN ORDINANCE APPROVING A ZONING MAP AMENDMENT AMENDING CERTAIN
LORD AND CASWELL STREET PROPERTIES FROM BD TO R-10
   THAT WHEREAS, the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance and other
land use ordinances, and a zoning map that controls land development within
both the City’s incorporated areas and within its extraterritorial area; and
   WHEREAS, in order to promote the public health, safety and general welfare
and to promote the best interest of the city and community, it is necessary for
the City Board of Aldermen from time to time to consider appropriate revisions,
modifications, and additions to the city’s zoning map; and
   WHEREAS, City staff has prepared and submitted an application for a zoning
map amendment to rezone the properties mentioned below; and
   WHEREAS, the Planning Board has thoroughly reviewed this matter and found
the proposed zoning map amendment to be consistent with the City of Southport
CAMA Core Land Use Plan and recommends its approval; and
   WHEREAS, pursuant to N.C. General Statutes and city ordinances, a public
hearing, properly noticed, was held on October 10, 2019 before the Board of
Aldermen regarding this issue; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen, after considering the public hearing
response and the recommendation of the Planning Board, hereby finds that the
proposed zoning map amendment is consistent with the 2015 CAMA Land Use Plan
for the reasons stated in its consistency statement attached hereto and
incorporated herein; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that this amendment is
reasonable and is in the public interest for the reasons incorporated in its
consistency statement attached hereto and incorporated herein; and;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that the
Official Zoning Map of the City of Southport, an element of the Unified
Development Ordinance of the City, is amended by changing the zoning
classification of the below described properties from BD to R-10:
Tax Parcel ID’s of properties to be rezoned:
237DC001, 237DC002, 237DC00901, 237DC009, 237DC008, 237DC00801, 237DC00702,
237DC00703, 237DC007, 237DC01602, 237DC00504, 237DC00503, 237DE012, 237DE00801,
237DE002, 237EA030
This ordinance shall be effective upon its adoption, and the Official Zoning
Map of the City of Southport shall be revised accordingly.
This, the 10th day of October 2019.               City of Southport
                           /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
[Image]
City of Southport Board of Aldermen Statement of Plan Consistency and Zoning
Recommendation
(As per NC General Statute 160A-383)
Zoning regulations shall be made in accordance with a comprehensive plan. Prior
to adopting or rejecting any zoning amendment, the governing board shall adopt
one of the following statements which shall not be subject to judicial review;
1) A statement approving the zoning amendment and describing its consistency
with an adopted comprehensive plan and explaining why the action taken is
reasonable and in the public interest. 2) A statement rejecting the zoning
amendment and describing its inconsistency with an adopted comprehensive plan
and explaining why the action taken is reasonable and in the public interest.
3) A statement approving the zoning amendment and containing at least all of
the following: A declaration that the approval is also deemed an amendment to
the comprehensive plan. The governing board shall not require any additional
request or application for amendment to the comprehensive plan, an explanation
of the change in conditions the governing board took into account in amending
the zoning ordinance to meet the development needs of the community, why the
action was reasonable and in the public interest. Prior to consideration by the
governing board of the proposed zoning amendment, the planning board shall
advise and comment on whether the proposed amendment is consistent with any
comprehensive plan. The planning board shall provide a written recommendation
to the governing board that addresses plan consistency and other matters as
deemed appropriate by the planning board, but a comment by the planning board
that a proposed amendment is inconsistent with the comprehensive plan shall not
preclude consideration or approval of the proposed amendment by the governing
board.     
TEXT AMENDMENT:      RZ-19-0710-01
STATEMENT OF CONSISTENCY AND RECCOMENDATION:
The City of Southport Board of Aldermen hereby finds that the proposed zoning
map amendment is consistent with the 2015 CAMA Land Use Plan adopted November
13, 2014. The Board of Aldermen finds that the proposed amendment is consistent
with the 2015 CAMA Land Use Plan because it is consistent with policy 9 of the
CAMA Land Use Plan. Policy 9 discourages commercial zoning on existing
residential properties. Further, it is reasonable and in the public interest
because it will protect existing residential properties from commercial
intrusion, the properties are uniform in characteristics with R-10 properties,
and the zoning map amendment is consistent with the adjacent R-10 zoning to the
North, East and West.
The statement and motion were seconded and passed unanimously.
/s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
8.   Presentation; Up Your Arts
Mr. John Keifer, 515 Quarter Master Drive, with the local Up Your Arts non-
profit 501(c)3 organization, gave a presentation for restoring the former City
Hall, 201 E. Moore Street, for a variety of uses and operating on behalf of
city residents and visitors at no cost to taxpayers. Mr. Keifer talked in depth
about the specifics of the proposed renovation and about a Memorandum of
Understanding between Up Your Arts and the City of Southport for Board
consideration. (Complete presentation on file in the Clerk’s Office)
Noting the Memorandum of Understanding was for a six-month period, Mayor Dove
suggested consideration of the proposal prior to the first of December and
after a meeting of Up Your Arts, Aldermen Pukenas and Alderman Tucker.
Alderman Sharkey questioned the exclusive right provision in the Memorandum of
Understanding.
9.   Budget Amendment #01; Carryover Purchase Orders
Alderman Tucker motioned, second by Alderman Sharkey to approve Budget
Amendment #1. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
[Image]
Budget Amendment
Fiscal Year 2019-2020
Budget Amendment #01
WHEREAS, the City of Southport approved 2019-2020 budget without carryover
Purchase Orders from the 2018-2019 budget year,
WHEREAS, the City needs to appropriate these funds from the General Fund,
Powell Bill Fund, and Water and Sewer Fund, and;
WHEREAS, the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2019-2020 needs to be amended to
reflect the use of these funds;
WHEREAS, the Funds are available in the General Fund, Powell Bill and Water and
Sewer Funds;
   NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport, North
Carolina that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2019-2020 shall be
amended as follows:
                               Increase
   General Fund Appropriations
   10-00-3991-0000             $ 80,702
   Powell Bill Appropriations         $ 33,425
   20-20-3991-0000
   Water Sewer Fund appropriations      $ 6,200
Expenditures                  Increase
10-05-4511-5000 Cades Cove Bond Remaining   $ 36,283
10-05-4511-5800 Storm repair streets            22,500
10-11-4340-1800 Firemen Uniforms          8,698
10-80-6120-5600 Park Equipment          10,421
10-81-6150-5600 Community Building Rails       2,800
         Total                 $ 80,702.
20-20-4511-5500 Powell Bill Expenditures       $ 33,425
31-91-7130-5800 Wastewater Asset Project        $ 6,200
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, October 12,
2019.
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
10.   Budget Amendment #02; WWTP Engineering Fees
Alderman Sharkey motioned, second by Alderman Spencer to approve Budget
Amendment #2. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
[Image]
 Budget Amendment  
Fiscal Year 2019-2020 
Budget Amendment #02 
 WHEREAS, the City of Southport approved to engaged engineers to design a
Wastewater Treatment Plant, and 
WHEREAS, the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2019-2020 needs to be amended to
reflect the use of these funds; 
WHEREAS the Funds are available in the Water & Sewer Fund; 
NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport, North Carolina that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year
2019-2020 shall be amended as follows:  
                                                              Increase
Water Sewer Fund appropriations      $ 1,000,000 
31-91-3991-0000 
Expenditures             Increase 
31-91-7130-4400
Wastewater Plant design Engineers    $ 1,000,000 
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, October 12,
2019. 
/s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk        
11.   Fire Department Purchase; Two (2) Ambulances from Town of Mint Hill
   Pointing out that an ambulance was slated to be replaced in 2021, Chief Drew
reported on an opportunity for the Fire Department to save $100,000 towards
purchase of two ambulances from the Town of Mint Hill. He stated that Mint Hill
would no longer be providing ambulance services. He stated he had driven and
inspected the vehicles. He noted that the vehicles are outfitted with modern
equipment and one of the vehicles would be under warranty. He emphasized that
Fire Department fire fees would pay for the $300,000 purchase.
   Alderman Spencer motioned, second by Alderman Powell to authorize purchase
of two ambulances from the Town of Mint Hill. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Committee Reports - None
Project Report
   City Manager Oakley reported that the Finance Director had established a
fund for accepting donations to help offset higher sewer bills for senior
citizens. The fund will be administered, and recipients qualified, by Brunswick
Family Services. Information for making donation will be included on monthly
utility bills.
   City Manager Oakley reported that he and staff had been discussing live
streaming of Board meetings. He anticipated beginning the practice in the near
future.    
Staff Reports – provided in Agenda packet
   Chief Drew reported that it was National Fire Prevention Week and programs
had been held in local schools, daycares, and senior citizen homes. He
announced that Fire Department personnel were available to check smoke alarms
free of charge for citizens.
   Fire Drew pointed out that Fire/Rescue personnel would be wearing pink
shirts throughout October in observance of Breast Cancer Awareness Month.
   Chief Coring announced that a benefit concert would be held to raise money
for Shop with a Cop. He also thanked Southport citizens for their patience
during a recent power outage.
   Finance Director Trexler introduced Mr. Scott Rogers, Finance Specialist,
who had many years’ experience with Caldwell Community College.
   Building Inspector Strickland reported that the Certificate of Occupancy had
been issued for the new Wendy’s restaurant.
   Director Hemphill announced that a Halloween Carnival with hayride would be
held Saturday, October 19 5:00 – 7:00 p.m. the city gym.
Board Comments
   Alderman Mosteller shared information about the city’s sewer and stormwater
infrastructure. She emphasized that the Public Works Director holds all
required licenses to operate the aged system. She pointed out that the system
became overwhelmed during Hurricane Florence and the City is applying for
funding to replace the older sections. She stated that there have been no on-
going spills.
   Alderman Mosteller recalled Board action taken October 13, 2016 to establish
diagonal parking spaces in the Bay Street right-of-way at the Atlantic Avenue
Park. City Manager Oakley raised safety concerns to installing diagonal parking
at that intersection (Atlantic Avenue and Bay Street). He suggested parallel
parking spaces. Alderman Sharkey recommended a review of the proposed parking
diagram and consulting with the NC Department of Transportation.
   Alderman Spencer expressed his dismay at the accusations of corruption being
leveled against the Board. He disputed the contention that the Board was not
transparent. He pointed out that the Board had convened in closed session just
one time in the last two years, and he asserted there were no secret meetings.
He stated that he was personally offended.
   Alderman Pukenas supported revisiting the parking at the Atlantic Avenue
Park and he asked if the parking spots in front of the former Police
Department, 113 W. Moore Street, could be re-opened for use.
   Alderman Pukenas announced that vegetative debris collected from Hurricane
Dorian had been mulched and would be used for a walking trail around Taylor
Field.
   Mayor Dove thanked Rivermist residents for welcoming the Board to their
community building.
ADJOURN
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to adjourn the October
10, 2019 meeting. Unanimous vote; motion carried. Meeting adjourned at 7:33
p.m.
                        /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
NOVEMBER 14, 2019
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING NOVEMBER 14, 2019
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Lora Sharkey, Karen Mosteller, Marc Spencer,
            Robert Tucker, Jim Powell
ABSENT:         Alderman Rick Pukenas
STAFF PRESENT:      Bruce Oakley, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
   Todd Coring, Police Chief
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   David Fox, Public Works Director
   Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
   Randy Jones, Tourism Director
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   John Micheletto, Codes Administrator
   Thomas Lloyd, Planner
   Kate Marshall, Animal Protective Services/Code Enforcement Officer
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
   Mayor Dove called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
   Alderman Powell welcomed everyone, and Chief Drew gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Powell led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Announcements
   Mayor Dove wished everyone a Happy Thanksgiving.
   Alderman Mosteller announced that the Beautification Committee was preparing
for the holidays; the sailboat wreaths would go up the week of November 18th,
and the Christmas Tree Lighting in Franklin Square Park would be held November
29, at 5:00 p.m.
   Alderman Mosteller announced that the first ever holiday pet event would be
held Sunday December 8, 2:00 – 4:00 p.m. in Keziah Park.
E)   Approval of Agenda   
   Mayor Dove asked for an addition to the agenda; Consideration of an
amendment to the City Manager’s employment contract.
   Alderman Mosteller asked for Consent Agenda Item #3 to be moved to the
regular agenda.
   Alderman Sharkey motioned, second by Alderman Spencer to approve the Agenda
as amended. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Dove stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
F)   Public Comment
   Mr. Ken Schnedetz, Up Your Arts, thanked the Board for considering the
Memorandum of Understanding with the group to conduct all necessary inspections
and testing of the former City Hall, 201 E. Moore Street, to determine its
feasibility as a community arts center.
   Mr. Chad Haddon, 6105 Turtlewood Drive, talked about three (3) things:
      Capital Power stormwater permit renewal.
      He thanked the City Manager and Police Chief for taking interest in the
traffic issues in the Turtlewood Subdivision. He stated that the situation had
improved.
      He expressed appreciation to City staff for their hard work and he
thanked the out-going Board members for their service to the citizens of
Southport.
   Mr. Scott Crook, 118 Park Avenue, spoke about on-going vehicular speeding on
Park Avenue. He asked if any of the suggested remedies (speed bumps, humps,
etc.) he presented previously would be considered. Additionally, Mr. Crook
spoke about an article in Forbes Magazine predicting a 3-meter sea level rise
by 2050. He encouraged the Board to research the potential impact the sea level
rise would have on Southport and what preventative actions could be taken.
   City Manager Oakley pointed out that the Police Department is nearing a full
staff which would enable additional police coverage of Park Avenue, and that
the City is conducting testing of speed reducing options.
G)   Special Recognition
   Alderman Sharkey recognized Public Works Department employees Mike Spicer,
Mark Caban, Andrew May, Shawn Pendegrass and Al Cochran. She praised the crew
for their professionalism and money saving renovation of the City Gym
bathrooms. She presented commendation letters to Public Works Director Fox for
inclusion in each employees’ permanent personnel file.
November 14, 2019
To:    Al Cochran, Shawn Pendegrass, Andrew May, Mark Caban, Mike Spicer
Thru:    David Fox, Director Public Works
From:    Alderman Lora Sharkey
I want to express my appreciation for the outstanding work provided by you and
your coworkers to the citizens of Southport. The timely renovation of the City
gymnasium bathrooms is first class. These new bathrooms are bright, sturdy and
professionally finished. By undertaking this project in addition to your
regular duties, you saved the City money while providing a much- needed
improvement.
Thank you for your dedication and willingness to help.
Alderman Lora Sharkey
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Spencer to approve the Consent
Agenda as amended. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Approval of Minutes for October 10, 2019 Regular Meeting – approved
Resolution Approving Financing Terms with BB&T for Purchase of Ambulances from
the Town of Mint Hill – approved
AGENDA
3.   Proposed Pay Classifications Changes
   City Manager Oakley stated that inequities in the City’s adopted pay
classifications were discovered. He recommended changes to the following
positions based on job descriptions, levels of responsibility, and supervision
requirements:
               Current   Proposed
                 Grade      Grade_
Fire Chief             23       26
Parks & Recreation Director    22       24
Tourism Director/PIO       21       23
Police Lieutenant          21       22
City Manager Oakley pointed out that the grade changes would not result in any
additional increases in salaries at this time, but it would expand the salary
range and potential earnings of the positions. He added that the pay
classifications were adopted in early 2017 and the City should consider a new
salary study and review of pay classifications and job descriptions again in
the next year or two.
Per Alderman Mosteller’s request, verbatim comments provided in their entirety:
“I appreciate Bruce bringing this conversation to the table. It is a reminder
that the city’s employment policies will, from time to time, need to be
updated.
The current Classification and Salary Policy was developed by the Management
and Personnel Services Group, consultants specializing in human resource
management and development. This consulting firm is endorsed by the North
Carolina League of Municipalities.
Because the city does not have an HR Director, the duties of which are spread
between the City Manager, Finance Director and the existing HR Technician; the
Board of Aldermen chose to hire specialists to review, analyze and update the
city’s Job Classification and Pay Policy. The Board did this to make sure that
the process was through, independent and utilized best practices.
In the city’s current policy, under Article 3 Section 2. Administration and
Maintenance, it states that, “Because job duties change over time and the
market pay rate changes at different rates for different jobs, comprehensive
classification and pay plan reviews are needed periodically…reviews are needed
approximately every five years.”
The memo in the agenda, calls attention to possible inequities, and says that
it is not a complete list of changes that need to be made and suggests that the
city consider a new salary study and review pay classifications and job
descriptions in the next year or two.
Also, in the information, the classification changes would not result in
immediate salary increases for the four staff positions. So, we are not talking
about an immediate need.
The Classification and Pay Policy was adopted in April 2017. Based on the
recommendation of the experts we hired to create the policy, we should probably
be considering a review and policy update in 2021.
To reach in and make policy changes that affect a few staff positions without
considering factors that may also be impacting other staff positions, doesn’t
seem to be fair and equitable to all the city staff. If we approve these
changes it’s an ad-hoc, piecemeal approach to updating the Classification and
pay policy.
I would like ask that we table this request with the understanding that these
changes will be considered when a complete review of the City’s Classification
and Pay policy is scheduled.”
   Alderman Sharkey questioned Alderman Mosteller’s statement and said the
following:
“You think it would be wiser to pay someone to make this recommendation than
take the advice of someone that is already in house that is looking at it
objectively, because it is not tied to an individual, it’s talking about pay
scale relating to job responsibilities and duties? As the City Manager, he must
manage people. We do not have a separate HR Department to do these things, so
he is acting in that capacity, as he has been charged to do and he is also
looking at the best way to make sure that we retain quality employees or
attract new employees. When you show that you have pay scales that are related
to job and responsibilities that are expected of you, and your education
requirements that you must have to have those jobs, the pay scale needs to be
in just the right place. Why would you want to delay that and then pay a
consultant to do that? I could see if we were going to examine the whole pay
scale, and do comparisons to other jurisdictions and get into job description
re-writing, then perhaps it’s the right time to invest money in that but right
now, for this simple adoption, to make some adjustments that will probably
benefit us with employee retention and attraction of employees, I would rather
we go ahead and adopt this as recommended. Do you have a reason why you think
it would be better to wait?”
   Alderman Mosteller noted that the City Manager mentioned there may be other
inequities and it would seem prudent to her to look at the whole plan in a
couple of years as recommended by the original consultant, the Maps Group.
   Alderman Powell recalled when the Classification and Pay Study was presented
to the Board in 2017 and that the Board did not agree completely with
everything the Maps Group said. Mayor Dove agreed.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Tucker to adopt the
classifications changes as presented.
Aye:   Aldermen Powell, Tucker, Spencer, Sharkey
Nay:   Alderman Mosteller
Motion carried 4-1
4.   Budget Amendment #3; Fire Department Ambulances Purchase
   Alderman Tucker motioned, second by Alderman Sharkey to approve Budget
Amendment #3. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1667_1118x1118.jpg]
Budget Amendment
Fiscal Year 2019-2020
Budget Amendment #03
WHEREAS, the City of Southport approved to purchase two ambulances for $300,000
and financing $200,000 of the purchase,
WHEREAS, the City needs to appropriate these funds $200,000 to make the
purchase and to transfer from capital outlay building line item $100,000;
and;
WHEREAS the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2019-2020 needs to be amended to
reflect the use of these funds;
WHEREAS the Funds are available in the General Fund;
NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport, North
Carolina that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2019-2020 shall be
amended as follows:
                                                                         Increase
       
   General Fund Revenue Appropriations
   10-11-3400-0000               $ 200,000
   Fire Dept Ambulance Loan
   Expenditures                  Increase/(Decrease)
   10-11-4340-5100 Capital outlay equipment          $ 300,000
   10-11-4340-5400 Capital outlay buildings                    (100,000)
      Total                          $200,000
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, November 14,
2019
                           /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
5.   Brunswick Electric Membership Corp (BEMC) Contract
   Finance Director Trexler explained that the Rate Committee had met and
recommended adoption of the revised Brunswick Electric Membership Corporation
(BEMC) Consolidated Contract for the Operation and Maintenance and the Electric
Customer Account Services. She pointed out the changes; services fees would
increase annually based on the CPI Index, the full cost of underground services
for new developments would be the burden of the developer and the City would
pay $300 of the $650 fee for current overhead electric service customers to
convert to underground electric service.
   City Attorney Isenberg noted that the term of the contract did not change.
   Alderman Mosteller motioned, second by Alderman Powell to approve the
revised contract with Brunswick Electric Membership Corp. Unanimous vote;
motion carried.
(Contract on file in the Clerk’s Office)
6.   ElectriCities; Demand Usage Rate
   Finance Director Trexler explained that ElectriCities had performed a study
on the City’s electric demand customers, approximately 20. She noted that the
Rate Committee had reviewed the study and recommends the demand base rate be
$75 per month and offset that with a lower kilowatt hour rate in order to be
more reflective of the cost of a meter. She added that the revenue would be
neutral, and the rate change would be effective January 1, 2020.
   Alderman Sharkey motioned, second by Alderman Powell to adopt the electric
demand usage rate as presented effective January 1, 2020. Unanimous vote;
motion carried.
7.   Audit Proposals
   a.   S. Preston Douglas & Associates, LLP
   b.   Thompson, Price, Scott, Adams & Co., PA
   Finance Director Trexler explained that two (2) proposals had been received
for auditing services. She pointed out that both firms are reputable, their
proposals were $1,000 apart, and both are ready to begin the FY 2018-2019
audit. She noted that the proposal from Thompson, Price, Scott, Adams & Co. did
not include an annual rate increase for a three-year term.
   Alderman Mosteller motioned, second by Alderman Sharkey to contract with
Thompson, Price, Scott, Adams & Co., PA for auditing services. Unanimous vote;
motion carried.
8.   Consideration; Employee Christmas Bonus
   Alderman Spencer praised City employees and motioned, second by Alderman
Powell to give full-time employees a $465 Christmas bonus and part-time
employees a $350 Christmas bonus. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
9.   Consideration; Memorandum of Understanding, Up Your Arts
   Alderman Sharkey recalled that a presentation had been made to the Board
during the October Board meeting from the non-profit group Up Your Arts
proposing renovations and potential use of the former City Hall, 201 E. Moore
Street. She noted that two members of the Board had met with representatives of
the group.
   Alderman Sharkey motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to accept the
general proposal to have Up Your Arts, a non-profit organization, to complete a
six-month feasibility study of the building designated as the Old City Hall,
and to authorize the execution of the Memorandum of Understanding by the Mayor
once all revisions and modifications to the agreement have been made by the
Southport City Attorney and accepted by the Attorney representing Up Your Arts.
Discussion
   Alderman Spencer questioned if the City would retain ownership of 201 E.
Moore Street. City Attorney Isenberg responded that the Memorandum of
Understanding only allows the group to do a feasibility study and anything
further would require a formal contract.
   Unanimous vote; motion carried. (Memorandum of Understanding on file in the
Clerk’s office)
10.   Discussion; State Public Hearing for State Stormwater & Wastewater
Permits for Capital Power
   Alderman Sharkey spoke about the upcoming North Carolina Department of
Environmental Quality (DEQ) public hearing for the renewal of discharge permits
for Capital Power that have a direct impact on Southport residents’ health and
wellbeing. She pointed out that the permits are not City or County permits but
are issued by DEQ and that the permits regulate how Capital Power is permitted
to dispose of by-products which is treated wastewater and can also be
stormwater. Capital Power is an energy generating plant that burns different
types of materials to produce steam for the Archer Daniel Midlands plant.
Materials that are permitted to be burned at Capital Power include shredded
tires, wood chips, old railroad ties and some coal. Alderman Sharkey emphasized
that there have been several organizations, most notably the Southern
Environmental Law Center, that are advocating more stringent requirements be
tied to Capital Power’s permit, i.e., more monitoring, better capturing and
bringing the standards up on how they are treating those effluents. She stated
her belief that it is in the best interest for Southport to be engaged in the
process and to make sure Southport gets the most action out of DEQ as possible
so that the most stringent legal standards are applied to the plant and to make
sure Capital Power is doing the best practices possible. Alderman Sharkey noted
that information had been provided in the agenda packet that was generated by
Southern Environmental Law Center and based on that information, she would
recommended that the Board select a representative to reach out to DEQ, to
discuss the points that were made in the letter from Southern Environmental
Law, and to participate at the Public Hearing November 21.
   Mayor Dove asked Alderman Sharkey to be the Board’s liaison and to attend
the public hearing and along with the City Manager, contact DEQ. Alderman
Sharkey accepted.
   Alderman Mosteller expressed that she would like to be involved and she
pointed out that neighboring communities were also getting involved.
11.   Consideration of Extension to the City Manager’s Employment Contract
   Mayor Dove pointed out that the City Manager had been on the job for over
two (2) years and had done an excellent job.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Tucker that, provided the City
Manager agrees to give at least 45 days’ notice of his decision to resign, the
Board of Aldermen extend the term of his employment contract for one year to
August 31, 2021, and that the Board modify his severance payment in Section 3
of his employment agreement from 3 months’ salary to 6 months’ salary.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
12.   Appointment(s) to Brunswick County Airport Commission
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Sharkey to reappoint Mr.
Fredrick (Flick) Guerrina to the Brunswick County Airport Commission for a four
(4) year term.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Committee Reports – None
Project Report
   City Manager Oakley provided an updated Project Report. He pointed out that
engineering design work has started on the 9 th Street to Robert Ruark Drive
sidewalk, Caswell Avenue would soon be patched and the entire street paved once
the 11 th Street housing development was completed, and the CAMA application
for the City Dock had been submitted and is under review.
   City Manager Oakley noted that the next Board meeting will entail the
“changing of the guard.” He congratulated in-coming Board members.
   City Manager Oakley stated the following to out-going Board members:
   “Alderman Tucker, Alderman Pukenas, Alderman Powell and Mayor Dove, it’s
been an honor to work for all of you. You are all very honest and hard-working
men that put the service to the City and to your fellow citizens over
yourselves. Your steadfast dedication to the City and to doing what is right is
honorable and should be commended. Your commitment and dedication never
waivered even when your intentions were wrongly questioned. You have all served
with honor and integrity and always stood up for what you felt was best for the
City. You were all able to accomplish a lot during your tenures and each have
left a great legacy and the City is better off because of your service. Thank
you for your confidence in me as a City Manager and the confidence you showed
all City staff. I’m proud to serve under all of you and I’m even more proud to
call you all friends. Thank you.”
Staff Reports – provided in Agenda packet
   Fire Chief Drew reported that the Fire Department had a successful Fire
Prevention Month with over 2,000 contacts, installed 43 smoke alarms, and
checked smoke alarm batteries. Chief Drew encouraged everyone to check the
batteries in their smoke alarms as they save lives.
   Fire Chief Drew announced that the Light of the Night Christmas Parade would
be held December 13, applications for participation were available on the
City’s website, and the parade is a 75-year tradition.
   Police Chief Coring announced that donations were being accepted for the
annual Shop-with-a- Cop program which would be held Saturday, December 14 at
Walmart. He added that a new event, Shop-with-a-Cop Concert, would be held
Tuesday, December 10, 5:30 p.m. in Franklin Square Park.
   Police Chief Coring announced that Officer Stokes received a commendation
for his compassionate actions during a recent traffic stop.   
Board Comments
   Mayor Dove expressed it was his honor and privilege to have been of service
to the citizens of Southport.
   Alderman Spencer expressed appreciation to and sentiments about the out-
going Board members: “Mayor Dove, you have the biggest heart and have given
Southport your all; Alderman Powell is the most knowledgeable individual about
City affairs that I have ever met. He educated me on many things, and it amazes
me how much he knows about the city’s infrastructure; Mr. Tucker is a find
gentleman and has served with integrity.”
Alderman Spencer welcomed Mayor-Elect Hatem, Aldermen-Elect Allen, Davis &
Lombardi. He advised that the business of the City is a group effort and they
will all depend on each other.
   Alderman Sharkey reported that she had attended conferences/workshops:
   - Bike Walk & Sea which focused on pedestrian and bicycle transportation and
how communities can get funding and get more people to use those modes of
transportation.
   - Participated in a State workshop pertaining to a communities’ resiliency
and implementation of resiliency action plans.
   Alderman Sharkey addressed Mr. Crook’s comments about the Forbes reporting
of a possible 3-meter sea level rise from emissions, which raise greenhouse
gases, which cause the climate to warm, which causes the water to go up, and
the biggest factors causing that are energy generation and transportation.
Referencing Executive Order 80, Alderman Sharkey noted that the Governor’s
office is focusing on reducing emissions and transitioning to cleaner energy
production. She emphasized that the City and Southport residents need to think
about reducing electricity and emissions on an individual basis as well as
communitywide. Residents are encouraged to walk or ride a bicycle to do errands
and use cars less to reduce emissions. Residents are encouraged to participate
in Load Management to reduce electricity usage. She stated that she was happy
to provide feedback to the State from Southport’s perspective as to how
dangerous it is for the city when the power grid goes down and the hospital
doesn’t have electricity or when there is no water supply because roads
crumbled and took out the water pipes. She added that there are actions the
City needs to take and work together on as a community to make Southport more
resilient. She stated she would continue to participate and would be attending
an AARP conference on livable communities the week of November 18.
   Alderman Powell thanked the citizens for allowing him to serve since 1999
and he wished the new board members success.
   Stating that you learn a lot and it is a different experience sitting at the
table, Alderman Tucker thanked the citizens for the opportunity to serve them
and he wished the incoming board members the best and greatest success.
   Per Alderman Mosteller’s request, verbatim comments provided in their
entirety:
“I have had several citizens express concern about the changes that are being
made and the lack of enforcement of the city ordinance regarding the 99 feet
rights of way in our old town area.
On the home page, our city website says, Welcome to the City of Southport- Home
of the Salubrious breezes.
I spoke with a member of the Historical Society to try to understand why in
1792, Joshua Potts platted our city with these 99 feet road rights of way.
What we know for sure is Mr. Potts laid the roads out perpendicular to the
river. It’s evident when you look at a map our roads follow the curve of the
river. That’s why Atlantic Avenue and Howe Street are not parallel.
From this, it seems plausible that since Mr. Potts believed the salubrious
breezes restored his failing health and saved his life …he may have platted our
99 feet rights of way to maximize the salubrious breezes for everyone.
The openness created by these original 99 feet rights of way is unique and very
much a part of the design of our city’s old town area. These wide rights of way
were not platted in 1792 for utility easements; they were purposefully platted
and are an important historical reference. Southport is listed in the National
Register of Historic Places.
The city’s ordinance was written to protect these wide rights of way … and we
should not be selectively enforcing any of our ordinances.
The idea that the enforcement of our right of way ordinance is complaint based
is not fair and equable to our citizens. As an example, when my neighbors
across the street applied for a permit to put up a picket fence, they were told
by the city that they could not extend their fencing into the right of way. My
neighbors followed the rules and built the fence that they were approved to
build.
Another neighbor around the corner planted grass on the right of way in front
of his house and then had temporary surveyors tape strung across preventing
parking on that section of right of way. A complaint was made and he was asked
to remove the obstruction from the right of way and he did.
In the past year, we have seen walls built in right of way, fences built in
right of way over the objection of the city and many landscape projects that
extent to the road capturing the full use of the right of way in violation of
the ordinance.
Drip by drip the stone is washed away. The historic old town part of our city
with these wide rights of way is less that one square mile. These rights of way
belong to all the citizens of Southport and must be maintained. The loss of
these wide rights of way will fundamentally change what we look like and over
time part of our history will be lost.
The idea that the city should enforce the ordinance based on complaint is not
fair to the citizens that follow the rules.
I would like to encourage a policy that empowers our code enforcement officer
to enforce the right of way ordinance day to day, not just when a complaint is
made.
Related to right of way land …Citizens have asked about the parking adjacent to
the Atlantic Avenue Park that was discussed at the last board meeting. I
understand that for safety reasons only parallel parking should be allowed.
However, the sidewalk repair and curbing that has been installed effectively
cuts off the use of the large right of way area that has the potential to
compliment the Atlantic Avenue Park upgrade and repair.
I would ask that our city manager directs Public Works and the Parks and Rec
Directors to look at that area together and consider a plan that addresses the
drainage needs and is complimentary to the adjacent park. This will be a missed
opportunity if we do not spend the time to maximize the citizens right of way
land to also compliment the park.”
ADJOURN
   Alderman Tucker motioned, second by Alderman Sharkey to adjourn the November
14, 2019 meeting.  Unanimous vote; motion carried. Meeting adjourned at 7:24
p.m.
                        _______________________________
                        J. V. Dove, Mayor
Attest: _____________________________
    Michele Windham, City Clerk
DECEMBER 12, 2019
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING DECEMBER 12, 2019
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor J.V. Dove
            Aldermen Lora Sharkey, Karen Mosteller, Marc Spencer,   
            Robert Tucker, Jim Powell, Rick Pukenas
 
STAFF PRESENT:      Bruce Oakley, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
   Todd Coring, Police Chief
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   David Fox, Public Works Director
   Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
   Randy Jones, Tourism Director
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   John Micheletto, Codes Administrator
   Thomas Lloyd, Planner
   Ellie Pittenger, Electrical Superintendent
   Tanya Shannon, Deputy City Clerk
   Lisa Anderson, Information Officer
   Kate Marshall, Animal Protective Services/Code Enforcement Officer
                     
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Dove called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Spencer welcomed everyone and gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Alderman Spencer led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Announcements
   Mayor Dove announced that Southport was awarded a $990,000 grant from Golden
LEAF Foundation for replacement of sewer infrastructure in Howe Street.
   Mayor Dove announced that the General Fund balance was over 40% and the city
was in a good financial state.
   Alderman Mosteller announced that the annual Light Up the Night Christmas
Fire Engine Parade would be held Friday, December 13 beginning at 6:30 p.m.
   Alderman Mosteller thanked the Beautification Committee volunteers for all
their efforts throughout the year. She announced that the Committee would be
starting new programs in 2020, Garden Steward Program – Adopt-A-Spot and
Cataloging all non-profit volunteer groups work hours.
ETHICS STATEMENT: Mayor Dove stated, “If any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
E)   Approval of Agenda
   Mayor Dove asked for removal of Agenda Item #5, Appointment to the Planning
Board.
   Alderman Powell motioned, second by Alderman Pukenas to approve the Agenda
as amended. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
F)   Public Comment
   No one from the public signed up to speak.
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Tucker motioned, second by Alderman Sharkey to approve the Consent
Agenda. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Approval of Minutes for November 14, 2019 Regular Meeting – approved
Amendment to FY 2017-2018 Contract to Audit Accounts with Berry, Padgett &
Chandler, PLLC – approved (contract amendment on file in the Clerk’s office)
OLD BUSINESS
   3.   Adoption; Neighbors 4 Neighbors
   City Manager Oakley explained the Neighbors 4 Neighbors program. He stated
the program was created at the urging of Aldermen Powell and in conjunction
with Brunswick Family Services (BFS), to help citizens with utility bills. He
pointed out that BFS would qualify citizens and donations in any amount, could
be made to the program.
Alderman Pukenas motioned, second by Alderman Spencer to adopt the Neighbors 4
Neighbors program and to contribute $10,000 to the fund to assist citizens 60
and older with their utility bills. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   4.   Appointment; ABC Board
   Alderman Powell nominated Mr. Jamesm Poppe for appointment to the ABC Board.
   Alderman Mosteller nominated Mr. Zach Zuehlke for appointment to the ABC
Board.
   VOTE
   Mr. Poppe:   Aldermen Powell, Tucker & Spencer
   Mr. Zuehlke:   Aldermen Mosteller, Pukenas & Sharkey
   Mayor cannot break a tie on a nomination.
   Alderman Pukenas motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to appoint Mr.
Zuehlke to the ABC Board.
   Aye:   Aldermen Pukenas, Mosteller, Sharkey
   Nay:   Aldermen Powell, Tucker, Spencer
   Aye:   Mayor Dove
   Motion carried 4 - 3
   5.   Appointment; Planning Board
Item removed from Agenda
RECOGNITION OF DEPARTING SOUTHPORT BOARD OF ALDERMEN
Mayor Dove, Aldermen Powell, Pukenas, and Tucker were recognized for their
service to the citizens of Southport and were presented Resolutions of
Recognition and engraved crystal desk clocks.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2133_1389x1338.jpg]
RESOLUTION
In Honor of Alderman Robert Tucker
   WHEREAS, The City of Southport is always appreciative of those who choose to
serve for the betterment of the City; and   
   WHEREAS, Robert Tucker was sworn in as a member of the Southport Board of
Aldermen December 13, 2018; and
   WHEREAS, he has diligently and capably served the citizens of Southport for
the past year; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen desires to recognize the outstanding service
of Robert Tucker to the citizens and the benefit that service has brought to
the City of Southport.
   NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE SOUTHPORT BOARD OF ALDERMEN, for and on
behalf of the Citizens of Southport, do hereby honor Robert Tucker, we
congratulate him on his service to the Board, and wish him well in all his
future endeavors.
/s/
   Presented and approved at a regular meeting of the Southport Board of
Aldermen this 12th day of December, 2019.
 
/s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor               /s/ Rick Pukenas, Mayor Pro Tem
 
/s/ Lora Sharkey, Alderman             /s/ Marc Spencer, Alderman
 
/s/ Karen Mosteller, Alderman            /s/ James F. Powell, III, Alderman
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2136_1548x1548.jpg]
CITY OF SOUTHPORT
RESOLUTION
In Honor of Alderman Rick Pukenas
   WHEREAS, Rick Pukenas was sworn in as a member of the Southport Board of
Aldermen to represent the citizens of Southport in December 2015; and
   WHEREAS, he has served the citizens of Southport for the past four years on
the Board of Aldermen; and
   WHEREAS, during his tenure on the Board of Aldermen, Rick served as the
Mayor Pro Tem and Liaison to the Board of Adjustment, in addition to other
duties and responsibilities; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen desires to recognize the outstanding service
of Rick Pukenas to the citizens and the benefit that service has brought to the
City of Southport.
   NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE SOUTHPORT BOARD OF ALDERMEN, for and on
behalf of the Citizens of Southport, do hereby honor the outstanding career of
Rick Pukenas; we congratulate him on his service to the Board and wish him well
in all his future endeavors.
   Presented and approved at a regular meeting of the Southport Board of
Aldermen this 12th day of December 2019.
 
/s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor            /s/ James F. Powell, III Alderman
 
/s/ Lora Sharkey, Alderman         /s/ Marc Spencer, Alderman
 
/s/ Karen Mosteller, Alderman                /s/ Robert Tucker, Alderman
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2136_1548x1548.jpg]
Resolution
In Honor of Alderman
James F. Powell, III
WHEREAS, James “Jim” F. Powell, III was sworn in as a member of the Southport
Board of Aldermen to represent the citizens of Southport December 1999; and
WHEREAS, he has served the citizens of Southport dutifully and faithfully as a
member of the Southport Board of Aldermen for 16 years; and
WHEREAS, he previously served on the Planning Board; and
WHEREAS, his dedication to the Board of Aldermen, staff and citizens of
Southport has earned him much respect; and
WHEREAS, his exemplary conduct and sense of fairness has been demonstrated for
the good of the City; and
WHEREAS, presentation of this resolution represents an opportunity for the
Mayor and Board of Aldermen to thank James F. Powell, III and to show
appreciation for the unselfish manner in which he has served the citizens of
Southport.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that I, J. V. Dove, Mayor, and Board of Aldermen
recognize Jim Powell for 18 years of dedicated and distinguished service to the
City and wish him success in all future endeavors.
                  /s/ J. V. Dove, Mayor
       /s/ Robert Tucker, Alderman         /s/ Lora Sharkey, Alderman
      /s/ Karen Mosteller, Alderman         /s/ Marc Spencer, Alderman
                /s/ Rick Pukenas, Mayor Pro Tem
 
CITY OF SOUTHPORT
RESOLUTION OF RECOGNITION
MAYOR J. V. DOVE
 
WHEREAS, J. V. Dove has graciously and unselfishly served the City of
Southport; and
WHEREAS, in the course of said public service, J. V. Dove has served four years
as Mayor of the City of Southport; and
WHEREAS, his whole-hearted participation in many charitable, civic and church
activities has earned him the respect and admiration of area residents
representing all ages and walks of life; and
WHEREAS, through his exemplary conduct and sense of fairness demonstrated in
all his activities, he has furthered the cause of better community relations,
better government and has been an influence in the growth and progress of our
community; and
WHEREAS, the personal qualities heretofore expressed are indelibly etched in
the minds and hearts of our citizens and in the employees, who served under his
leadership and guidance.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Aldermen do hereby tender to
Mayor J.V. Dove this resolution of Public Recognition, extending profound and
abiding appreciation for his distinguished and outstanding contributions as a
community and civic leader. We wish him success in all future endeavors and are
grateful that we shall still have the benefit of his participation in many
areas of community service.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Board of Aldermen proclaims December 14, 2019
as “J. V. Dove” day in the City of Southport, N.C. and further urge all
citizens to join in acknowledgement of grateful appreciation for unselfish and
dedicated service to the citizens of Southport.
Presented this the 12th day of December 2019.
 
/s/ James F. Powell III, Alderman      /s/ Lora Sharkey, Alderman
 
/s/ Karen Mosteller, Alderman      /s/ Robert Tucker, Alderman
 
/s/ Rick Pukenas, Alderman            /s/ Marc Spencer, Alderman
 
OATH OF OFFICE CEREMONY
 
The Honorable William F. Fairley         The Honorable Jason Disbrow
District Court Judge               District Court Judge
13th Judicial District               13th Judicial District   
 
   Judge William F. Fairley administered the oath of office to Mayor Joseph P.
Hatem. (A copy of this oath is hereby incorporated in the minutes of this
meeting.) (ATTACHMENT #1)
   Judge William F. Fairley administered the oath of office to Alderman Lowe
Davis (A copy of this oath is hereby incorporated in the minutes of this
meeting.) (ATTACHMENT #2)
   Judge Jason Disbrow administered the oath of office to Aldermen John Allen
and Thomas Lombardi (A copy of these oaths are hereby incorporated in the
minutes of this meeting.) (ATTACHMENT #3 and #4)
ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING
   Addressing the assemblage, Mayor Hatem thanked his supporters, his wife and
family and pledged to dedicate himself to unifying the citizens of Southport
with a new type of leadership that promotes public health, arts, historic
preservation, volunteers’ organizations; develops precise policies, and
implements the best technology to protect the environment . Stating, “I want to
inspire every Alderman and staff,” Mayor Hatem declared support for the City
Manager, City staff, and Aldermen.
   a.   Election of Mayor Pro-Tempore
   Alderman Allen motioned, second by Alderman Davis to appoint Alderman
Mosteller as Mayor Pro-Tempore. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   b.   Swearing in of Mayor Pro-Tempore
   City Clerk Michele Windham administered the oath of office of Mayor Pro-
Tempore to Alderman Karen Mosteller. (A copy of this oath is hereby
incorporated in the minutes of this meeting.) (ATTACHMENT #5)
NEW BUSINESS
   6.   Appointment; Representative to the Cape Fear Council of Governments
(CFCOG)
   Alderman Sharkey motioned, second by Alderman Spencer to appoint Mayor Hatem
as the Southport representative to the Cape Fear Council of Governments.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Committee Reports – None
City Manager Report
   City Manager Oakley reported that the Tourism Department had received a
grant in the amount of $5,000 from ElectriCities towards Wi-Fi improvements.
   City Manager Oakley reported that engineering had begun for a sidewalk from
9th Street to Robert Ruark Drive.
   Staff Reports – provided in Agenda packet
   Board Comments
   Alderman Sharkey wished everyone a wonderful holiday season.
   Alderman Spencer welcomed the new Mayor, Aldermen, and recognized past Board
members in attendance.
   Pledging to represent the citizens of Southport and work hard on their
behalf, Alderman Davis promised to include citizens, get information out to
them and to look at ways to stream the meetings.
   Alderman Lombardi expressed appreciation for the confidence the citizens of
Southport have shown in him.
   Alderman Allen wished everyone a happy holiday season and reminded all to
get out and enjoy the many city events.
   Alderman Mosteller stated her gratitude to the committed individuals that
work for the City, the neighbors that share their talents and kindness with one
another, and the spirit of boundless volunteerism.
ADJOURN
   Alderman Mosteller motioned, second by Alderman Sharkey to adjourn the
December 12, 2019 meeting. Unanimous vote; motion carried. Meeting adjourned at
7:04 p.m.
                  
                        /s/ Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor
                           
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
2020
JANUARY 9, 2020
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING JANUARY 9, 2020
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
PRESENT:         Mayor Joseph P. Hatem
            Aldermen Karen Mosteller, Lora Sharkey, Lowe Davis,
            Marc Spencer, John Allen, Tom Lombardi
STAFF PRESENT:      Bruce Oakley, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director   
   Todd Coring, Police Chief
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   David Fox, Public Works Director
   Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
   Randy Jones, Tourism Director
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   John Micheletto, Codes Administrator
   Thomas Lloyd, Planner
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
   Mayor Hatem called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
   Pastor Stuart Milton, Trinity United Methodist Church, gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Mayor Hatem led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.   
D)   Approval of Agenda   
   Mayor Hatem asked for removal of agenda Item #4: Approval; Electric
Infrastructure, N. Lord Street between 11th and 12th Streets.
   Alderman Mosteller motioned, second by Alderman Lombardi to approve the
Agenda as amended. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
ETHICS STATEMENT:  If any member of the Board knows of any conflict of interest
or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect to matters on the
agenda, to please so state it at this time.
E)   Public Comment
   Ms. Lori Sanderlin, Manager of the North Carolina Maritime Museum at
Southport, provided informational handouts to the Board. She extended an
invitation for an exclusive Wine & Cheese Social, Thursday, February 20.
   Mr. Donnie Joyner spoke for Ms. Pat Galloway, 818 W. 11 th Street. He
pointed out that a new residential development on W. 11 th Street had blocked
an access to Ms. Galloway’s residence. Emphasizing safety concerns, Mr. Joyner
asked for a temporary access to be put in place.   
   Mr. Donnie Joyner, 635 Jabbertown Road, spoke about the extent of damage to
Mt. Carmel AME Church, 507 N. Lord Street, from Hurricane Florence and the
repairs/renovations made to date. He talked about fund raising efforts and he
expressed appreciation to all who had donated. Mr. Joyner reported that the
oldest member of the Church, Charles “Pete” Joyner, a fisherman for 70 years,
passed away one day short of his 97 th birthday.
   Mr. Donnie Joyner, speaking on behalf of the Black History Committee,
announced that he would be sending out invitations to a Gospelfest event which
is part of Black History Month.
   Ms. Sage Seeley, 255 E. 11 th Street, expressed her gratitude to the Board
for responding to her concerns regarding the sewer and water bill increase.   
   Ms. Priscilla M. Gay, 253 E. 11 th Street, resident of Brunswick Village,
thanked the Board for establishing the Neighbors 4 Neighbors program that
provides assistance on utility bills.
   Ms. Linda Baker, 4359 Frying Pan Road, spoke about a request by Capital
Power for renewal of Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ) permits allowing
discharge of effluent into the Duke Energy canal. Ms. Baker asked the Board to
consider adopting a resolution asking for additional testing. She pointed out
that the Town of Oak Island had adopted a resolution.
   Mayor Hatem recognized the significance of environmental stewardship and he
stated that a robust response would be forthcoming from the City. He added that
a Town Hall meeting regarding the issue would be held at some time in the near
future.
   Ms. Ennis Tobler, 1229 N. Caswell, expressed gratitude to the Board for
listening to the needs of citizens on their utility bills.
   Ms. Lynn Williams, 202 West Moore Street, spoke about a complaint filed with
the City of Southport Code Enforcement Officer pertaining to placement of a
fence and swing on the City right-of-way along her property. She estimated that
the swing had been in that location for 30 years and she stated that a permit
was obtained for the fence. She pointed out that plants had been placed on ugly
mounds of dirt left after installation of a pump out. Ms. Williams indicated
that during a drive around the city she found 75 violations on the rights-of-
way. She stressed fair and consistent handling of the violations.
   Rev. Ronald Davis stated his gratitude for support given by the Board and
Southport citizens towards the repairs of Mt. Carmel AME Church. He invited all
to services and to see how the renovation is coming along.
   Ms. Verda Darrell, Boiling Spring Lakes resident, stated appreciation to the
people of Southport for supporting the restoration of Mt. Carmel AME Church.   
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Sharkey motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to approve the
Consent Agenda. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Approval of Minutes for December 12, 2019 Regular Meeting – approved
   Resolution Honoring Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Celebration – approved
   Mayor Hatem read into the record the Resolution Honoring Dr. Martin Luther
King Jr. Celebration and presented it to the MLK Celebration Committee members
in attendance.
CITY OF SOUTHPORT RESOLUTION HONORING DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING JR. CELEBRATION
WHEREAS, the Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Celebration Committee was formed and
entrusted with the responsibility to plan a community wide celebration to
appropriately honor this great leader; and
WHEREAS, Dr. Martin Luther King Celebration Committee has selected the dates of
Sunday January 19 and Monday January 20, 2020 to hold this celebration with
events scheduled to include youth programs, a march and a roundtable breakfast,
and
WHEREAS, the Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Celebration has established a mission
statement in which its most important goal is to bring people of the community
together for the purpose of promoting good will and harmony for the betterment
of the entire community; and
WHEREAS, it is extremely important that the great works and deeds of Dr. Martin
Luther King, Jr. be duly remembered, honored and recognized in this most
fitting and proper way.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Mayor and Board of Aldermen of
Southport recognizes January 19-20, 2020 as the official dates of the
Celebration by the Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Celebration Committee and
encourage all citizens to participate in the activities scheduled.
Adopted the 9th day of January 2020.
                        /s/ Joseph P. Hatem,
Mayor                                                                 
(Attest) /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
 
AGENDA
   3.   Resolution; Accepting Grant From The Golden Leaf Foundation
City Manager Oakley reported that the Golden Leaf Foundation had awarded
$990,000 to the City for sewer infrastructure rehabilitation in Howe Street.
Alderman Davis motioned, second by Alderman Sharkey to adopt the Resolution
Accepting Grant from The Golden Leaf Foundation.
Discussion
Responding to a query from Alderman Allen, City Manager Oakley stated that the
work would be completed within 18 months, and he anticipated a favorable
response from the Golden Leaf Foundation regarding a start work date extension.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
RESOLUTION ACCEPTING GRANT FROM THE GOLDEN LEAF FOUNDATION
Whereas, the City of Southport has applied for a grant from the Golden LEAF
Foundation for a sewer system rehabilitation project to respond to damages
caused by Hurricane Florence, Tropical Storm Michael and Hurricane Dorian; and
Whereas, the City has been notified by the Golden LEAF Foundation that it is
awarding the City a grant and has approved funding in the amount of $
990,000.00 for said project; and
Whereas, the City desires to acknowledge and accept said grant and funding
pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Grantee Acknowledgement and
Agreement provided by Golden LEAF together with all other requirements of
Golden LEAF:
 NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport that the City hereby accepts the $ 990,000.00 grant from the Golden
LEAF Foundation for its sewer rehabilitation project and that the City hereby
accepts and agrees to the terms and conditions of the Grantee Acknowledgement
and Agreement provided by Golden LEAF together with all other requirements of
Golden LEAF.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that Bruce Oakley, City Manager, is hereby authorized
and directed to execute the Grantee Acknowledgement and Agreement on behalf of
the City and to execute any and all other documents as may be required from
time to time by Golden LEAF in connection with the administration of said
grant.
This the 9th day of January, 2020.
                     City of Southport
                     /s/ Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
   
   4.   Approval; Electric Infrastructure, N. Lord Street between 11 th and 12
Streets
   Item removed from the agenda and deferred to the February 1, 2020 Annual
Retreat.
   5.   Budget Amendment #4; Neighbors 4 Neighbors
   Alderman Allen motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to approve Budget
Amendment #4. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1667_986x986.jpg]
Budget Transfer
Fiscal Year 2019-2020
Budget Transfer #04
WHEREAS, the City of Southport approved funding of the Neighbor 4 Neighbor
program that will aid low income senior citizens in paying the increase in
their sewer bill; and
WHEREAS, the City needs to transfer funds of $10,000 from the General Fund line
item Board Contingency to the Water Sewer Fund appropriation’s and expenditure
line item; and
WHEREAS, the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2019-2020 needs to be amended to
reflect the use of these funds; and
WHEREAS, the Funds are available in the General Fund;
NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport, North
Carolina that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year 2019-2020 shall be
amended as follows:
             
                                                                                Increase/
(Decrease)       
   General Fund Expenditures
   10-00-4110-9700 Board Contingency             ($10,000)
   10-00-4120-9600 Transfer to Other Funds          10,000
   Water Sewer Fund
   Revenue Appropriations
   31-91-3780-1000 Transfer from General Fund          10,000
   Expenditures                  
   31-91-7130-3910 Neighbor 4 Neighbor             10,000
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, January 9, 2020.
 
                        /s/ Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor
   /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
            
   6.   Appointment; Representative to the Cape Fear Area Rural Planning
Organization
Alderman Mosteller motioned, second by Alderman Lombardi to appoint Mayor Hatem
to the Cape Fear Area Rural Planning Organization. Unanimous vote; motion
carried.
   7.   Appointment; First and Second Alternate Commissioners for the North
Carolina Eastern Municipal Power Agency (NCEMPA)
   Alderman Mosteller motioned, second by Alderman Spencer to appoint Alderman
Sharkey as the 1st Alternate Commissioner and Mr. Ellie Pittenger, Southport
Electrical Superintendent, as the 2nd Alternate Commissioner for the NCEMPA.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Committee Reports
   Per Alderman Mosteller’s request, verbatim comments provided in their
entirety:
   “At the next Planning Board meeting, Thursday, January 16th at 6:00 at the
Indian Trail Meeting Hall the review process for the Bill Clark Homes project,
Osprey Landing will begin. The representatives from Bill Clark Homes will be
making an informational presentation to the Planning Board about Osprey
Landing, a land use plan for approximately 196 homes in a Planned Unit
Development located off of Robert Ruark Drive.
After the presentation, there will be a public comment period to allow
interested citizens the opportunity to ask the project representatives
questions about the proposed subdivision.
This is a large project and it’s important to know that this is the first step
in the process. No project details will be approved at this meeting. This will
strictly be an informational presentation to provide the Planning Board and
resident’s a look at the proposed land use plan for Osprey Landing and to give
the citizens an opportunity to ask questions and offer their comments.
Again, this Planning Board meeting is next Thursday, January 16th at 6:00.”
   Alderman Lombardi reported that the Beautification Committee had begun
removal of Christmas decorations, that volunteers can adopt one (1) of fifteen
(15) specific locations and the next Beautification Committee meeting would be
held January 12, 5:00 p.m. in the Indian Trail Tree Meeting Hall.
   Alderman Lombardi reported that there would be no Zoning Board of Adjustment
meeting in January.
   Alderman Sharkey reported that the Rate Committee is working with NCEMPA
commissioner Paul Fisher and Southport Electrical Superintendent Ellie
Pittenger on a Load Management educational campaign.
   City Manager Report
   City Manager Oakley recognized the Public Information Desk manned by the
Tourism Department.
   City Manager Oakley noted that a request for bids would soon be solicited
for the proposed Howe Street sidewalk.
   City Manager Oakley announced that the annual Board Retreat/Workshop would
be held Saturday, February 2, 2020, 9:00 a.m. in the Community Building.
   City Manager Oakley stated that a conference call had been held with
engineers regarding the wastewater treatment project and another meeting was
scheduled and would include the Rate Committee and County Engineer.
   Staff Reports – provided in Agenda packet
   Mayor’s Comments
   Mayor Hatem wished everyone a Happy New Year and thanked all those involved
in making Southport festive for the holiday season.
   Mayor Hatem pointed out that the waterfront erosion control project and
wastewater treatment plant/county agreement are moving forward.
   Mayor Hatem emphasized that the City will be vigilant towards safeguarding
the environment, i.e. clean water and clean air.
   Mayor Hatem thanked Randy Jones, Public Information Officer, and Ms. Lisa
Anderson for their assistance with the City’s web page, Facebook page and
efforts to live stream the Board meetings. Mayor Hatem urged all department
heads to post as much as possible to the web page. He announced that his Vision
of Southport 2020 would be posted to the website.
   Mayor Hatem announced that he would hold “Meet With The Mayor” day on the
1st Wednesday of every month, 4:30 – 6:00 p.m. at the Indian Trail Tree Meeting
Hall, 113 W. Moore Street.
   Mayor Hatem announced the following Board liaison appointments:
      Alderman Spencer:   Sunny Point Joint Land Use Committee
      Alderman Allen:   Planning Board
      Alderman Lombardi:   Beautification Committee & Zoning Board of
Adjustment
   Mayor Hatem stated he campaigned on Southport Reads and he recommended
reading “Finding Chika” by Mitch Albom.
   Board Comments
   Alderman Sharkey stated that she would be providing information from AARP
pertaining to livable communities.
   Alderman Davis encouraged public attendance and participation at the
February 1 Board Retreat.
   Alderman Lombardi wished all a happy and healthy new year.
   Per Alderman Mosteller’s request, verbatim comments provided in their
entirety:
“Over the past two years, during public comments, we have had several citizens
express concern regarding the proliferation of short-term rentals in our
community.
This is an important issue for communities across the country. Southport is a
town, not a beach rental community. We have Bed and Breakfasts that are
required to follow a long list of rules in order to operate in our residential
neighborhoods. It is important that the potential impact of Short-Term rentals
in our community is discussed, understood and planned for.
I would like to begin the process of considering a short-term rental ordinance
by scheduling a public meeting to give citizens an opportunity to share their
ideas, concerns and questions about Short Term Rentals in our community.
I would like to ask Tanya, our Deputy City Clerk to please schedule the public
meeting for Monday January 27th at 5:00 pm at the Indian Trail Meeting Hall and
get the word out in the Pilot and the city website. Alderman Allen and the
Planning Board Chair have graciously agreed to participate in the meeting.
We look forward to a good discussion.”
ADJOURN
   Meeting adjourned at 7:08 p.m.
                        /s/ Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor
                           
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
JANUARY 27, 2020
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN         SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
INDIAN TRAIL MEETING HALL JANUARY 27, 2020
113 W. MOORE STREET       SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor Joseph P. Hatem
            Aldermen Karen Mosteller, Lora Sharkey, Lowe Davis,
            Marc Spencer, John Allen, Tom Lombardi
STAFF PRESENT:      Bruce Oakley, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Todd Coring, Police Chief
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   David Fox, Public Works Director
   Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
   Randy Jones, Tourism Director
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   Thomas Lloyd, Planner   
A)   Call to Order – 4:00 p.m.
   Mayor Hatem called the meeting to order at 4:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
   Alderman Davis gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Mayor Hatem led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.   
D)   Approval of Agenda   
   Alderman Sharkey motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to approve the
Agenda. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
ETHICS STATEMENT:  If any member of the Board knows of any conflict of interest
or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect to matters on the
agenda, to please so state it at this time.
AGENDA
   1.   Consideration of Interim City Manager
   Mayor Hatem reported that several names were provided for consideration of
an Interim City Manager. He presented the Bio for Mr. Chris May:
Education
AS Lees McRae College 1972
BA Appalachian State University 1977
MA Appalachian State University 1981
VTA Professional Facilitation 2001
Honors and Awards
Inducted into Order of the Long Leaf Pine
Military
Commander USCG (ret.)
40 years in USCG Reserve
Certified Marine Environmental Protection and Law Enforcement Officer
MOTSU ELS Supervisor
Local Government Experience
Assistant to Manager Watauga Co 1978-1979
Manager Seven Devils 1979-1985
Manager Blowing Rock 1985-1995
Adjunct Professor ASU Public Admin.
Government Sales Rep. Waste 1995-2000
Exec. Director Cape Fear COG 2000-2019
Guest Lecturer UNCW MPA
 
   Alderman Mosteller motioned, second by Alderman Davis to authorize the Mayor
to negotiate and enter into an agreement with Mr. May, for the position of
Interim City Manager, not to exceed the funding available in the current
budget.
   Discussion
   Alderman Sharkey asked if other candidates were considered. Noting her
understanding that Mr. May would be the facilitator of the Board’s Retreat
February 1, Alderman Sharkey asked if someone else had been scheduled to
facilitate the Retreat.
   City Manager Oakley stated that, as requested, he had provided the Mayor
with names for interim manager candidates. City Manager Oakley indicated that
he did have someone willing, as a favor to him, to facilitate the Retreat. He
pointed out that the Retreat would be a good opportunity for Mr. May to get to
know the new Board members.
   Alderman Spencer questioned what the employment duration of an Interim City
Manager would be. Mayor Hatem stated that he estimated six months to go through
the process of hiring a permanent City Manager.
   Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Board Comments
   Alderman Davis invited all to attend the annual Women’s Club Arts Festival,
Tuesday, January 28, 5:00 – 7:00 p.m. in the Community Building.
   Mayor Hatem reported that City Manager Oakley would be with the City through
the Board’s Retreat and the February 13 Regular Board Meeting.
ADJOURN
   Alderman Lombardi motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to adjourn the
Special Meeting at 4:14 p.m.
                        /s/ Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor
                           
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
   
JANUARY 27, 2020
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES/SHORT TERM RENTALS
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN         SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
INDIAN TRAIL MEETING HALL JANUARY 27, 2020
113 W. MOORE STREET       SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor Joseph P. Hatem
            Aldermen Karen Mosteller, Lora Sharkey, Lowe Davis,
            Marc Spencer, John Allen, Tom Lombardi
STAFF PRESENT:      Bruce Oakley, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   David Fox, Public Works Director
   Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
   Randy Jones, Tourism Director
   Thomas Lloyd, Planner
   Kate Marshall, Animal Protective Services/Code Enforcement Officer
Call to Order – 5:00 p.m.
   Mayor Hatem called the special meeting to order at 5:00 p.m. and stated that
the purpose of the meeting was to hold a Public Forum concerning Short Term
Rentals.
   Mayor Hatem stated that due to the inadequate meeting space, the need for
the Planning Board to be involved, and the obligatory Public Notice, the
meeting would be adjourned and rescheduled for a later date.
ADJOURN
   Alderman Lombardi motioned, second by Alderman Sharkey to adjourn the
Special Meeting at 5:04 p.m. and to reschedule a Public Forum of the Board of
Aldermen and the Planning Board at a later date. Unanimous vote; motion
carried.
                        /s/ Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor
                           
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
FEBRUARY 1, 2020
RETREAT MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  RETREAT MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING FEBRUARY 1, 2020
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Joseph P. Hatem
         Aldermen Karen Mosteller, Lora Sharkey, Lowe Davis, Marc Spencer, John
Allen, Tom Lombardi
STAFF PRESENT:   Bruce Oakley, City Manager
         Michele Windham, City Clerk
         Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
         David Fox, Public Works Director
         Tom Stanley, Asst. Public Works Director
         Randy Jones, Tourism Director
Call to Order - 9:00 a.m.
   Mayor Hatem called the meeting to order.
Invocation
   A moment of silence in honor of Ms. Sylvia Butterworth, a 25-year Southport
City employee, was held.
Pledge of Allegiance
   Mayor Hatem led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
Public Comment
   Mr. Thomas Caudill, 419 Stuart Avenue, spoke about the flooding that occurs
on Stuart Avenue and he provided an 8-page pictorial handout. Additionally, Mr.
Caudill spoke about the conditions of a new business locating at the corner of
Stuart Avenue and N. Howe Street. He urged the City to investigate a vehicle
that has been parked and not moved in many months at the Thai Restaurant/
Apartments.
   Ms. Kelly Evans, 415 Stuart Avenue, expressed concerns about traffic safety
when Stuart Avenue is covered with water. She suggested the City contact
engineering students with a college to do an intern project on the matter.
   Mr. Richard Noeckeri, 412 Stuart Avenue, spoke about the challenges when
water floods his front yard and vehicles speed through the water covered
roadway.
   Mr. Woodrow Taylor, 103 Highland, agreed with his neighbors about the
conditions of Stuart Avenue when it becomes covered with water.
…………………………………………………………………………………………………..
Mayor Hatem introduced Mr. Chris May, facilitator of the Retreat, and Interim
City Manager.
Local Government Primer
   Mr. May gave a brief history of the 100 municipalities chartered by the NC
General Assembly, the role of municipalities, and resources available to a
governing board.
   Mr. May spoke about instances of a quorum, of the members, attending Board
appointed committee meetings, functions, events, etc., and traveling together.
He noted that in a small community there would be occasions when a quorum of
the Board would be in attendance and he pointed out what the public may
perceive. He stressed that the Board try to avoid a majority of members at
functions.
Roles of Mayor, Aldermen, City Manager
   Mr. May asked Board members for attributes of a Mayor, Aldermen and City
Manager.
Mayor
Objectivity
Strong Leader
Good Listener/Communicator
Delegation
Promoter
Positive Attitude
Well Organized
Transparent
Levelheaded – Calm
 
Aldermen            City Manager
Respect Others’ Opinions      - Honest/Integrity
Work Together/Teamwork      - Good Listener
Informed/See Both Sides      - Ability/Affability/Availability   
Honesty – Transparent      - Plugged into Community
Trust Employees         - Strong Leader
Good Listener         - Loyal & Supportive
Patient            - Objectivity
Open Minded         - Strong Background in Municipal Government
Paul Fisher – North Carolina Eastern Municipal Power Agency (NCEMPA)
   Mr. Fisher, Southport Commissioner to the NCEMPA, presented recommendations
for making the Southport electric system cheaper, greener, and more reliable:
   Continue an aggressive program of Load Management to increase citizen
participation
   Strive to have all electric underground by 2024
   Consider electric vehicles for the city fleet; battery storage and charging
stations
   Work with Piedmont Gas to develop a time phased program to offer natural gas
to all sections of the city by 2021
   Work with Brunswick Electric Membership Corp. (BEMC) to develop a 5-year
plan
Mr. Fisher explained the one-hour demand peak that represents 58% of the
monthly electric fee.
Review of Last Year’s Goals
   City Manager Oakley reviewed the status of the 2019 Bucket List and Top 6
Priorities.
Waterfront Stabilization:      In process, soon to submit for permit
Small Boat Harbor/City Dock:   In process, has funding, ready to go to bid,
waiting on resolution with CAMA Attorney
   Taylor Field:         In process, fully grant funded
   Clean Creeks & Waterways   In process
   Update Storm Water Program   in process, have met with McGill Associates to
do a stormwater assessment plan
   Performance Evaluations;
   Recognition, Enhancements,
     Incentives            Completed & on-going
   Traffic Calming Devices      In process, being tested
   Create Media Policy and Designate Public Information Officer
(PIO)      Completed, Tourism Director PIO
Prioritization of Issues Exercise
   Mr. May guided the Board through an exercise creating a bucket list of
issues and projects for consideration. He then guided them through a voting
process for prioritizing the items.
Bucket List
   1.   Resolution of Wastewater Issues
      a.   Brunswick County Agreement
      b.   Infrastructure maintenance/repair, replace
      c.   Review system development fees
   2.   Stormwater Master Plan
   3.   Waterfront Stabilization
      a.   City Dock
      b.   Shoreline
      c.   Yacht Basin
      d.   Sidewalks
      e.   Parking
      f.   Pedestrian Safety
   4.   Parks & Recreation
      a.   Taylor Field Connectivity
      b.   City Gym
      c.   Recreation Center
   5.   Planning Issues
      a.   Reasonable Strategic Enforcement Plan, R-O-W
      b.   Overlay Entry Corridor
      c.   Short Term Rentals
      d.   Code Enforcement Policy
      d.   UDO Update Completed
      e.   Control Growth
      f.   Preserve Historic Character While Accommodating Economic Growth
   6.   Item incorporated in Planning Issues
   7.   Creative Taxation to Address Tourism
   8.   Parking
   9.   Acquire 106 Acres on Ferry Road for Nature Park
   10.   Bike/Pedestrian Enhancements
   11.   Environmental Stewardship Sustainability
   12.   Establish Good External rapport with County and State
   13.   4 th of July Festival
      a.   Event Planner
      b.   Heritage of Community
      c.   Funding Support from State
   14.   Support Strategic Plan for C.I.P. All Departments
   15.   Underground Power Lines
   16.   Street Improvements
      a.   Review Policy
      b.   Paving Alternatives
   17.   Facility Assessment
      a.   Schedule Repairs Priority
   18.   Improve & Strengthen Coordination of Public Safety with Dosher
Hospital
   19.   Support Local Public Schools
      a.   ABC Money
      b.   Shadowing
      c.   Enrichment
      d.   Critical Thinking Skills
   20.   Seek Resource Development from External Partners    
The Board voted for their top six (6) priorities:
TOP 6 PRIORITIES
Resolution of Wastewater Issues
Waterfront Stabilization
Planning Issues
Support Strategic Plan for C.I.P. All Departments
Stormwater Master Plan
Creative Taxation to Address Tourism
Top Voted Projects Champions:
#1   Sharkey & Davis
#2   Sharkey
#3   Lombardi & Allen
#5   Allen & Mosteller
#7   Davis & Spencer
#14   Mosteller & Lombardi
Lunch Recess – 12:14 P.M.
                     /s/ Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor   
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
FEBRUARY 1, 2020
RETREAT MINUTES/DEPARTMENTAL REPORTS
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  RETREAT MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING FEBRUARY 1, 2020
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Joseph P. Hatem
         Aldermen Karen Mosteller, Lora Sharkey, Lowe Davis, Marc Spencer, John
Allen, Tom Lombardi
STAFF PRESENT:   Bruce Oakley, City Manager
         Michele Windham, City Clerk
         Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
         David Fox, Public Works Director
         Tom Stanley, Asst. Public Works Director
         B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
         Todd Coring, Police Chief
         Charles Drew, Fire Chief
         Randy Jones, Tourism Director
         Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
         Kate Marshall, Animal Protective Services/Code Enforcement Officer
Call to Order - 9:00 a.m.
   Mayor Hatem called the meeting to order.
Invocation
   A moment of silence in honor of Ms. Sylvia Butterworth, a 25-year Southport
City employee, was held.
Pledge of Allegiance
   Mayor Hatem led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
AGENDA
1.   Workshop/Local Government Primer/Roles/Prioritization of Issues
   Meeting minutes provided separately and adopted March 12, 2020.
Lunch Recess – 12:14 P.M.
2.   Brunswick Electric Membership Corp (BEMC)
   Mr. Tim Tippett, Mr. Mike Blue, and Ms. Deborah Fish presented an overview
of services provided by Brunswick Electric Membership Corp. (BEMC), a review of
Hurricane Dorian pre-storm preparations and responses, status of FY 2019/2020
Work Plan Projects and the proposed two year Work Plan for FY 2020/2021 and FY
2021/2022. (complete report on file in the Clerk’s office)
   ∙   Customer Growth:   2012 = 2,691
               2019 = 3,243
   ∙   2019 Types of O & M Service Orders
      Meeting with Customer
      Problems Found During Outage Response
      Security Light Repair
      Retire Equipment
      Disconnects
      New Connections & Reconnections
      Meter Change
      Banners
      Tree Maintenance
      Streetlight
      Service Repairs & Upgrades
      Energy Audit
      Pole Removal
      Work Orders
Total Miles of Overhead & Underground (as of January 2020)
679 Overhead
2,564 Underground
FY 2019/2020 Work Plan Projects
   ∙    Overhead to Underground Conversion along Hwy 211         $ 2,236,414
   ∙    (City reimbursed by DOT)
   ∙    NCDOT Overhead to Underground Conversions of
   Services along Entire Hwy 211 Route – Not Started            $ 77,000
   ∙    NCDOT Streetlights Along Howe Street – Not Started         $ 150,000
   ∙    Fodale Avenue Overhead to Underground Conversion (Complete)   $ 840,000
   ∙    Fodale Avenue Overhead Retirement (waiting on Spectrum)      $ 35,000
   ∙    Replacement of Oil Circuit Breakers with S&C Tripsavers (Complete)$
66,950
Proposed 2020/2021 Work Plan Projects
   ∙    N. Lord to W. 12th Streets Overhead to Underground Conversion   $
46,000
   ∙    City Pier Solar LED Lighting                  $ 45,000
   ∙    Pole Replacements – 128 Rotten Poles               $ 135,000
   ∙    Cape Fear Drive Overhead to Underground Conversion      $ 285,000
   ∙    River Drive Overhead to Underground Conversion         $ 320,000
   ∙    BEMC Back-up Service to City of Southport             ROM $1.64M
Potential Project for 2021/2022 – Howe Street Cable Upgrade And Conversion from
Overhead to Underground
   ∙   1.0 mile along Howe Street from W. 10th to W. Bay Bores      $ 3,200,000
   ∙   48 Bores along Howe Street from W. 10th to W. St. George      $ 150,000
Board consensus for consideration of City Pier solar LED lighting, Lord Street
overhead to underground conversion, and two-year pole replacement project at
the February regular Board meeting.
3.   Departmental Reports
PUBLIC WORKS (complete report on file in the Clerk’s office)
   Electric
   Electrical Superintendent Ellie Pittenger stated his mission: To work
closely with BEMC on system improvements, street lighting, ensure contract
obligations, and coordinate multi-year work plan.
   Superintendent Pittenger reviewed the following:
   ∙    Purchase Load Management (LM) Switches (100)
   ∙    Install LM switches
   ∙    Increase LM participation
   ∙    Continuing funding for underground service conversion
   ∙    Train backup LM operator
   ∙    Replace rotted poles
   ∙    Erect electric vehicle charging station
   ∙    Purchase smart thermostats & repeaters
   ∙    Purchase meter collars
   ∙    Purchase NexGrid Software
   ∙    Erect LM infrastructure (2 – 30ft. pole)
   ∙    Replace 2006 Ford Explorer
   ∙    Establish contingency plan for underground work, unforeseen LM switch
replacement, and/or storm damage
Water & Sewer
Mission:   To operate and maintain the City’s water and wastewater systems, to
interact in a courteous manner with customers, be proactive towards City’s
needs, work with developers on projects involving extensions of City’s water
and wastewater systems.
Public Works Director Fox reviewed FY 2020/2021 budget requests per each
division:
Sewer
   ∙    Funding for I & I study and repair work of collection system
   ∙    Purchase backup pump for Indigo Lift Station and The Landing Lift
Station
   ∙    Funding for solid removal & dewatering from collection system
   ∙    West/West lift station rehab
   ∙    Funding for manhole rehab, 200 vertical ft. on west side of town
   ∙   Replace Generator at 9th Street Lift Station and Park Avenue Lift
Station   
Water
   ∙    AMI system software/hosting/licensing
   ∙    Replace water main on E. West
   ∙    Replace galvanized with PVC on Rhett Street
   ∙    Replace water main on W. Brown
   ∙    Purchase collector for backup of AMI projects
Building & Grounds
Mission:   To ensure safe and sound maintenance and repair of public buildings
and other City facilities. To inspect all maintenance and repair work performed
by contractors on City’s buildings. To work with all Department heads to
coordinate repairs and maintenance of facilities they have in their department.
   ∙    Remove dead tree limbs in Northwood Cemetery
   ∙    Install fence for generator and controls at Public Works
   ∙    Repair & Paint Indian Trail Meeting Hall
   ∙    Set aside funding for City Hall AC units
   ∙    Replace push mowers, weed eaters, edger
   ∙    Employ two (2) part-time seasonal workers
   ∙    Add two (2) new positions
Street
Mission:   To maintain city streets, sidewalks, storm drains and traffic signs.
Work with BEMC in administration of street lighting program and on holiday
lighting.
   ∙    Funding for paving Yaupon Drive Extension
   ∙   Gravel W. 11th Street
   ∙    Funding for tree trimming & removal
   ∙    Pave city streets (Powell Bill)
   ∙    Sidewalk replacement
   ∙    Fund storm water study
   ∙    Replace two (2) storm drains on Forest Oaks Drive
   ∙    Replace storm drain on Park Avenue Ext.
Stormwater
   ∙    Perform a study (last study 2004)
Garage
Mission:   To ensure that all City vehicles and equipment are safe and running
in sound condition at all times, to advise department heads/employees of
routine maintenance schedule for equipment and vehicles.
   ∙    Replace aging air compressor
   FINANCE (complete report on file in the Clerk’s office)
   Finance Director Trexler reported that the fund balance is on the upswing.
She indicated she anticipated reimbursements from FEMA for Hurricane Florence.
Explaining that the City’s pay policy needs amended for compliance with FEMA
regulations, Director Trexler indicated an amendment would be submitted to the
Board for consideration within the next couple months. Noting safety concerns,
she recommended remodeling the City Hall first floor front reception area and
she endorsed continued use of a grant writer in order to pursue grant funding.
PLANNING & INSPECTIONS (complete report on file in the Clerk’s office)
Building Inspector Strickland reported that the 11th Street subdivision
(Fisher’s Place) would include a street connector to 9th Street.
Building Inspector Strickland recommended increasing fees during consideration
of the FY 2020/2021 Budget. He pointed out that Planning & Inspections is
inundated with paper files that should be digitized and the department is
looking at Laserfiche towards that end. He praised City Planner Lloyd and
reported that Code Administrator John Micheletto had attended training for
three of the five disciplines and is awaiting available testing opportunities.
Inspector Strickland estimated it would take five (5) years for Administrator
Micheletto to achieve Level III certifications in all trades.
Responding to a query by Alderman Sharkey, Inspector Strickland stated that a
revision to NC General Statute 610D would entail an extensive merger in the
Unified Development Ordinance (UDO) that must be completed by January 2021 to
be compliant.
Building Inspector Strickland spoke about the benefits of including Conditional
Zoning in the UDO.
PARKS & RECREATION (complete report on file in the Clerk’s office)
Parks & Recreation Director Hemphill reviewed the department’s many special
events, fitness classes, athletic activities, seniors’ happenings, various park
locations, and buildings and facilities. She reported that application had been
submitted for designation as Ecofriendly for Waterfront Park and Lowe White
Park. She stated that she would be applying for a grant to rebuild the Franklin
Square Park gazebo. She provided an update on the City Dock renovation project:
   ∙    CAMA permit submitted October 2019
   ∙    Awaiting decision regarding riparian right issues
   ∙    As soon as permit issued, demolition of existing damaged dock can begin
Director Hemphill announced that the City had received PARTF funding for the
1st phase of the Taylor Field Park construction project.
Director Hemphill provided a listing of 2020 projects and potential funding
requests:
   ∙    Complete City Dock renovation
   ∙    Phase 1 of Taylor Field Park construction
   ∙    Atlantic Street Park renovation
   ∙    Replace wood, rotted fascia and windows of Jaycee Building
   ∙    Replace roof and rotted fascia on Senior Building
   ∙    Gravel Lowe/White Park parking lot
   ∙    Replace pavement on Lowe/White Park Trail
   ∙    Replace trash cans at Waterfront
   ∙    Replace swings and benches at Waterfront Park
   ∙    Replace floor and roof at City Gym
   Responding to a query by Alderman Spencer, Director Hemphill explained that
the Atlantic Street Park is a CAMA access point to the riverfront beach at low
tide.
   Director Hemphill reported that when the Parks and Recreation Master Plan is
scheduled to be updated, a centralized recreational center would be recommended
for the City property on 9th Street.
   Answering a query from Alderman Davis, Director Hemphill stated that the
Jaycee Building is used for exercise classes and rentals such as birthday
parties, etc.
TOURISM (complete report on file in the Clerk’s office)
   Tourism Director Jones provided an overview of 2019 accomplishments and a
vision for 2020:
      Number of Visitors   $ 31,220
      Income    Total      $ 21,748.42       
      Staffing:   Himself, Fort Johnston/Website Coordinator, PIO Assistant
         Not inclusive listings
      2019 Events:   Black History Month
               Day of Service
               Shred-it
               Spring Festival
               Gullah Geechee Heritage
               Arbor Day
               NatureFest
               Summer Concerts
               Kitchen Tour
               Plein Air
               4th of July
               Peace Day
               Wooden Boat Show
               Winterfest
 
Committee/Nonprofit Liaison:   Arbor Day, NatureFest, Beautification Committee,
               4th of July Festival, Historical Society,
               Chamber of Commerce, Wooden Boat Show,
               Spring Festival Committee, Up Your Arts, WinterFest
 
Garrison House Improvements:   4 new HVAC units, Garrison House front columns &
trim
               Painted, Live Oak deep root fed, Brick pads under Adirondack
chairs,
               Film Room updated, additional display in Carson room
 
Speaking Engagements:      Historical Society, Retired Federal Employees, 
               Brunswick County Fire Arts Department
 
Media:            State Port Pilot, Star News, Our State, WWAYTV, Google,
               Cape Fear Resource Guide, QVC, Spectrum News, Chamber of
               Commerce, HGTV, WECT TV
 
Brochures & Rack Cards:   Southport in Film, Annual Event Calendar, File
Locations, History of
                Fort Johnston, Visitors’ Guide, Summer Concerts,
               Biking Guide, Winterfest
 
Indian Trail Meeting Hall Users:      Planning Board, Board of Adjustment,
Beautification Committee,
                  Forestry Committee, Parks & Recreation Board, Mayor’s
                  Meeting
                  Nonprofits:
                  Downtown Southport, Historical Society, Garden Club, Friends
                  of the Southport Ferals, Sergei Foundation, Kiwanis,
                  ElectriCities, John Smith Cemetery
2019 Tourism Actions:         Second season of Memorial Bricks added to walkway
                  Update of downtown City of Southport Map
                  Oral History program
                  Grant purchase; filming equipment
                  Storage closet converted into display area
                  Volunteer collective hours – 7,500
                  Attended Visit NC 365 Tourism Conference
                  Hosted WinterFest Tea
                  Attended National Information Training Conference
                  Maintains City of Southport website
                  Launched Facebook pages
                  Acquired Southport Tourism Trademark
 
VISION for 2020:   Events      Coffee-with-a-Cop
                  Black History
                  Day of Service
                  Spring Festival
                  Arbor Day
                  Summer Concerts
                  4th of July Festival
                  Change of Command
                  Military Appreciation Day
                  Peace Day
                  Wooden Boat Show
                  WinterFest
 
Garrison Improvements:      Repair flood damaged floor
               Public restrooms painted
               Interior painting
               Structure to house cannon (Thor)
 
Brochures & Rack Cards:   Animal Protective Services (new)
               Keep Informed: (updated)
               Southport Summer Concerts (updated)
               Winterfest (updated)
               Restaurant Guide (updated)
               Accommodation Guide (updated)
               Realtor Guide (updated)
               Scavenger History Hunt (updated)
 
2020 Tourism Actions:      Improving & Creating additional methods of
communication
               Develop strategies for filming/streaming of government meetings
               Expand social media tactics
               Create webpages for Neighbors 4 Neighbors program and Load
Management
               Be present at meetings and events
               Create brochures and rack cards
               Update Monthly Showcase Display
               Liaison with Historical Society for the Gift Shop
 
   Director Jones highlighted that Ms. Lisa Anderson was hired as a part-time
Information Specialist, and she spoke to the Board about improving the sound,
imagery, and production of live streaming the Board’s monthly meetings.
Director Jones pointed out that a $5,000 grant from ElectriCities had been
received for communications upgrades. He noted that he did not have any major
capital improvements planned.
FIRE (complete report on file in the Clerk’s office)
   Chief Drew gave an overview of the Department:
Training & Continuing Education:   
   Emergency Vehicle Driver Certification (12)
   98 College Classes held in conjunction with BCC; 1389 students, 800
classroom hours
   National Hurricane Conference
   National Fire Academy Leadership Class (2 certified)
   Fire Officer 1 & 2 Certification Classes
   Started Fire Academy for FF 1 & 2 Certification
   Held 36 Fire Fighter continuing ed classes through BCC
   Held 18 EMS continuing ed classes
   Water Rescue Certification Class held with NUSCG
   Several members had over 300 training hours
 
Membership:
   25 new volunteers – 13 Fire/12 EMS
   3 new Jr. Fire Fighters
   8 full time staff (Chief, Asst. Chief, Fire Marshal, Fire Clerk & PIO, Lead
Firefighter, 3 Firefighters)
   58 Volunteer Fire Fighters
   41 Volunteer EMS Members
   Active Auxiliaries
   Chaplaincy Program
 
Fire Department Actions – 3,578 Calls
   EMS – 1909 Medical Calls
   Fire – 718
   Fire Prevention & Inspection – 951
   Chief Drew reported that a new program in conjunction with the Police
Department has been established; a 501c3 program – when responding to calls and
personnel see a need such as food, medical, emergency, ramp, etc., Southport
Cares assists.
   Chief Drew pointed out the highlighted apparatus that will be taken out of
service and listed in the report:
   1986 Ford Tele Squirt 55’ Ladder 363 (Long Beach Road Substation)
   1989 Spartan Pumper 377 (Caswell Station)
   2003 Patient Transport Golf Cart 2581 (Downtown)
   2007 Ford Crown Vic – Training Car 3 (HQ)
   2012 Taylor Made Chevy Ambulance 396 (HQ)
   Chief Drew stated that the 911 Memorial observation received national
attention.
   Chief Drew emphasized that the Southport Fire District serves over 5,000
structures, 28 square miles, 105 roads, 650 fire hydrants and a population of
16,279 with most residents living outside the city limits. He explained that
the fire fee ($1,191,315.00) is determined by the Fire Fee Committee and
approved by the Brunswick County Commissioners.
   Chief Drew announced that a full ISO Inspection will occur in September by
the Office of the State Fire Marshal.
   Chief Drew reviewed 2020 departmental goals:
   Equipment:   All hydrants tested, new ambulances with power stretchers,
upgrade rescue
         Equipment, upgrade radios & laptops, upgrade water rescue equipment
and boat
   Operation:   Response plans, commercial building pre-plans, apparatus
placement
         SOG’s, revise Fire/EMS Preceptor Program
   Health & Safety:   Fit 4 Duty Program
            Immunization Plan
            100% participation on annual physicals
   Maintenance:   HQ - painting, bay floors, relocation weight/exercise room,
commercial
            cleaning all floors, landscape   
            EOC – battery backup, phone system & computers
            Equipment – hose, hydrants, ladders, fire alarm, sprinkler, pumps,
elevator, SCBA, Fit tests, plymovent, generator
   Administrative:   Pay Plan
            Department SOG update
            Uniform Policy
            Newsletter
   Training:   EMS specialty classes, TR services, confined space, annual EMS
skill checks, new Firefighter 1 & 2 format, EMS Daily training/drills, update
training site/props
Long Range Planning Goals
   Replace 1st out Engine for Caswell Station - 2020
   Hire 2 More Lead Firefighters – 2020/2-21
   Construction of Long Beach Road Substation - 2021
   Replacement of Engine 371 - 2021
   Paramedic Level with Fulltime EMS Coverage - 2023
   Replacement of Heavy Rescue/Service Unit - 2025         
 
POLICE (complete report on file in the Clerk’s office)
   Chief Coring presented a 2020-2021 Police Department Budget Information
handout to the Board. He gave a brief overview of the department,
accomplishments and goals.
   Department
   ∙    12 of 13 positions have been filled
   ∙    Detective position filled
   ∙    2 Sergeants are in place
   ∙    Vehicles are ordered and in production through a City lease plan
   ∙    New Policy and Procedures implemented
   ∙    Uniforms have been updated
   ∙    Upgrades to computers and mobile cameras continue
   ∙    Zuercher software system underway and scheduled to go live in April
      -    Zuercher is #1 provider of public safety software in North America
      -   Will place life saving measures at officer’s fingertips
   Accomplishments
   ∙    Community policing
   ∙   Programs: Safe Carts – 328 golf carts registered; Shop With A Cop;
Coffee With A Cop; Safe Sanctuaries with Churches;
   ∙    Business safety checks
   ∙    School checks
   ∙    Speed limits lowered on Moore and Howe Streets
   Goals
   ∙    Upgrades for Body Cameras
   ∙    New In-Car Computers
   ∙    Relocate evidence vault from 201 E. Moore Street to 1029 N. Howe Street
      -   201 building conditions have deteriorated: unsafe due to air quality
and mold.
      -   All evidence and articles removed from 201 building will have to go
through a decontamination process of removing mold. Will be a timely and
expensive process.
 
   ANIMAL PROTECTIVE SERVICES/CODE ENFORCEMENT (complete report on file in the
Clerk’s office)
   Provided in the Board Agenda packet was an overview of 2019 services;
projects completed to date, events, programs, training completed, conferences
attended, associations and disaster response teams.
   APS/Code Enforcement Officer Marshall reviewed 2020 services including
pending projects, and planned events. Officer Marshall reported that there is a
need for an area/building to house a short-term holding facility for dogs. She
explained that if a dog is picked up there is no place locally to hold them and
if after hours/weekend/holidays, on-call Brunswick County Animal Protective
Services must be notified to meet Southport at the county shelter.
   Officer Marshall pointed out that Animal Protective Services had partnered/
participated in helping raise $4,000 for local non-profits and helped Southport
become one of the Inaugural Pet Friendly Cities.
   Responding to a query by Alderman Spencer, Officer Marshall stated that a
demolition permit had been issued for a dilapidated structure on River Drive.
   Referencing the Boat and Solid Waste Ordinances, Officer Marshall noted that
many Codes needed updating.
   Administration/Capital
   City Manager Oakley reported that a one point of entry restructuring of City
Hall is being considered to provide for better safety.
BOARD COMMENTS
   All Board members expressed appreciation to departments for the valuable
information provided.
   Alderman Mosteller emphasized that every department is a priority even if
not specifically listed in the top six (6) priority items.
ADJOURN
Alderman Lombardi motioned, second by Alderman Sharkey to Adjourn the February
1, 2020 Board of Aldermen Retreat/Workshop at 4:06 p.m. Unanimous vote; motion
carried.
   
                     /s/ Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
FEBRUARY 10, 2020
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN    SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING   FEBRUARY 10, 2020
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor Joseph P. Hatem
            Aldermen Karen Mosteller, Lora Sharkey, Lowe Davis,
            Marc Spencer,   John Allen, Tom Lombardi
 
STAFF PRESENT:      Bruce Oakley, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   David Fox, Public Works Director
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Hatem called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m. and stated that the
purpose of the meeting was for discussion of the wastewater treatment agreement
with Brunswick County.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Davis gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Mayor Hatem led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.   
D)   Approval of Agenda   
   Alderman Allen motioned, second by Alderman Lombardi to approve the Agenda.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
E)   Public Comment
   No one from the public spoke.
ETHICS STATEMENT “If any members of the Board knows of any conflict of interest
or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect to matters on the
agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
   No Conflicts
AGENDA
Discussion of Wastewater Treatment Agreement with Brunswick County
   Mayor Hatem stated that the purpose of the meeting was to ask questions of
the engineers and County officials, and for citizens to hear the discussion
relating to wastewater treatment. He pointed out that the Board needs to decide
whether to seek 750,000 gallons per day sewer allocation or 1 million gallons
per day allocation. He added that it is a very important issue for the city and
citizens, it has been a complex issue, has to do with hard equations, has an
intuitive aspect that has to do with existing flow and growth, and a $26M loan
to the City is in place.
   City Manager Oakley reported that staff had been working with the County in
negotiating and discussing issues relating to expanding the County’s plant. He
stated that the County had been good to work with and the City contracted
engineers, Hazen and Sawyer, had been working well with the County also. He
indicated that staff needs direction from the Board to continue negotiations
and to give the County a level of confidence that the City is committed. He
added that the County is working on an agreement for city staff to review and
for Board approval. City Manager Oakley reported that the City must submit a
letter to the North Carolina Department of Environmental Quality (NCDEQ) by
February 17 based on the revolving fund loan with date specific milestones.
   City Manager Oakley noted that engineers Collin Beck and Tim Devine from
Hazen Sawyer were in attendance along with Carter Hubbard of W. K. Dickson who
worked on the original design of the county plant expansion, and John Nichols,
Brunswick County Utility Director.
   Responding to a query by Alderman Mosteller about the economy of scale and
if the cost is $18M to do 750,000 gallons capacity, and adding another 250,000
gallon capacity would add $6M, Mr. Beck stated the rule of thumb to calculate
the cost of a wastewater treatment facility would be cost per gallon, anywhere
from $10 - $12 per gallon.
   Alderman Sharkey pointed out that the initial cost estimate for 1M gallons
per day capacity, was $34M. She questioned if that estimate was still viable.
Mr. Nichols recapped the original estimate made many years prior based on a
500,000 gallon a day expansion and purchasing 250,000 gallons of existing
capacity. He stated that when the County determined the cost for 750,000
gallons there was a lot of interpolation from the original estimate and those
same numbers were used to get a linear interpolation up to 1M. He pointed out
that the estimates were provided in a quick timeframe and that currently the
numbers may be different and need updated. Mr. Hubbard added that the cost
estimate was within budget, the key to the cost is the disposal and to answer
the disposal question would require additional study. He did say that he felt
there was adequate land available at the facility that has been selected for
the new plant and disposal.
   Responding to a query from Alderman Allen, Mr. Hubbard explained that the
County wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) at Shallotte would be the site for a
new facility to be added and the existing plant has spray irrigation. He
pointed out that all regulatory and environmental comments have been addressed.
   Alderman Allen asked if the County and W. K. Dickson were comfortable with
an estimated $26M for 750,000 gallons per day of capacity. Mr. Nichols pointed
out that the estimate was from 2018 and he would have Mr. Hubbard review the
numbers and see if the $26M would still apply. Mr. Nichols stated his hope that
an estimate would not be significantly higher.
   Responding to a query from Alderman Mosteller, Mr. Nichols stated that the
transmission lines were included in the original quotation.
   Alderman Allen asked what would happen if in five years the City needed
another 250,000 gallons of capacity. Mr. Nichols spoke about the benefits of
being a participant in a regional system:
      If capacity is available, a participant would not have to fund an
expansion just because they were at their capacity.
      The County looks at the plant as a whole and once it reaches 80% capacity
is when the design process would begin.
      The County has five (5) wastewater treatment plants interconnected for
greater flexibility in how the flows are managed.
   Alderman Allen speculated that the City is probably better off not over
purchasing capacity.
   Responding to a query from Alderman Allen, Public Works Director Fox
reported that the current average daily flow is 500,000 gallons per day in FY
2018 which included significant storm events.
   Alderman Mosteller pointed out that a subdivision is before the Planning
Board that would bump the average daily flow to 630,000 gallons per day.
   Alderman Lombardi asked if the City would have to bear the entire cost of
expansion or would an expansion be distributed amongst the members if the City
now went with 750,000 gallons and needed more in five years. Mr. Nichols stated
that typically the County would look at what the needs were for a planning
horizon for all participants in the system and any participant that needed more
capacity to meet their future needs would be part of any expansion. He stated
the County has determined the growth rates for a 15- 20 year planning horizon
in the northeast part of the County and he estimated that in the next 5 -10
years the County would also need additional flow and the expansion cost would
be shared depending on the percentage of flow that each participant needed.
   Alderman Lombardi questioned why the City is required now to pay for the
entire planned expansion. Mr. Nichols pointed out that the City of Southport is
the only current participant requesting additional flow.
   Alderman Mosteller shared her concerns that in years past the West Brunswick
WWTP had exceeded the 80% capacity. Mr. Nichols noted that there had been
particularly high flow years. He referenced the City’s 2016 peak average daily
flow of 846,000 and he pointed out that flows fluctuate depending on the
weather and the amount of inflow & Infiltration (I & I) in the system. He noted
that communities can take measures to reduce the I & I and Southport is doing
that.
   Alderman Spencer asked how large the West Brunswick plant could be expanded
and which participants were drawing on that plant. Mr. Nichols stated there was
ample space at the West Brunswick plant location and Holden Beach, some
Shallotte, and Southport would use that facility. Alderman Spencer questioned
the sizes of the W. Brunswick and Shallotte plants. Mr. Nichols stated that the
West Brunswick Plant is 6M gallons per day and the Shallotte plant is 500,000
gallons per day.
   Alderman Davis confirmed with Mr. Nichol that in order for the City to
become a participant in the regional system, there has to be an expansion and
the choice for the Board is the number of gallon capacity, 750,000 or 1M per
day and the City cannot continue as is. City Manager Oakley stated that per the
current agreement with the County, the City would have to remove it flows from
the County system at a date certain.
   Alderman Mosteller revisited the sewer district agreement and areas adjacent
to Southport that would be developed, and to which the City has been able to
grow by providing sewer service. She added that Southport is a regional hub
with less than 4 square miles of taxpayers, and it is important for the City
long term to be able to grow and provide sewer service. She expressed her hopes
that the County would work with Southport towards that end. Mr. Nichols assured
the Board that the comments by the Aldermen would be put forth to the County
Board of Commissioners.
   Responding to a question by Alderman Davis, City Manager Oakley reported
that DEQ is administering the loan and certain milestones have to be met with
determined dates, which includes how many gallons per day. He stated that DEQ
has requested a response from the City within 30 days of January 17 th .
   Alderman Spencer verified with Mr. Nichols that the W. Brunswick plant is at
half its capacity.
   Alderman Mosteller commented that Oak Island was not currently using their
total capacity and she questioned how their shift from the Fish Factory Road
could affect the City’s allocation. Mr. Nichols stated he had not heard
anything from Oak Island recently and the Fish Factory Road has 400,000 gallons
capacity, treating on average 150,000 per day and there would be minimal impact
on the 6M gallons a day plant at West Brunswick if Oak Island shifted its flow.
   Alderman Allen asked if at some time in the future the City needed 100,000
gallons of additional capacit, could the City purchase that without expansion?
Mr. Nichols responded that if a participant was willing to sell capacity;
however typically there is not a need to purchase additional capacity unless
the plant is at its 80% capacity and in need of an expansion. He emphasized
that the capacity of the entire system provides room to grow.
   Alderman Allen and Lombardi expressed their support for pursuing 750,000
gallons per day capacity.
Public Comment
   A Maple Leaf Drive resident asked about the history of the issue, options,
if the County would at some point take over the City’s water and sewer systems,
if services would be cheaper for residents and how the cost for the expansion
would be spread out to customers. City Manager Oakley gave an overview of the
history to date, pointed out that new developments pay allocation fees and
speculated that the County may, when Southport’s utility infrastructure is in
better shape, want to take over the City’s systems.
   Mr. Bruce Hacker, 15-year resident of The Landing Subdivision, asked if the
Board had shelved the idea of building a city plant. Mayor Hatem advised Mr.
Hacker that the City is moving forward with the County and will not be building
a city plant. Mr. Hacker asked if impact fees would offset some of the cost.
City Manager Oakley stated that new development fees do offset some of the
cost.
   Mr. Hacker questioned if NC 211 development would impact the City’s
capacity. Alderman Sharkey spoke about the current 2.5M gallons per day
availability, needed expansion when the plant reaches 80% capacity, all
participants would pay if near their allotted amounts, and a formula would be
worked out for each participant.
   Alderman Sharkey talked about rates. She noted that the City’s rate
structure had been reviewed by Hazen Sawyer and the rates were set and adopted
so that the rates would cover the cost of going with the County for sewer
service or building a city plant. Alderman Sharkey pointed out that the Board
could consider raising new development fees to cover more of the debt.
Responding to a query from Alderman Davis, Alderman Sharkey emphasized that the
current customer rates would fully cover the $27M debt and would provide money
for repairs to reduce infiltration. She expressed concerns about opting for the
1M gallons per day allocation which would require additional borrowing that the
current rates would not cover.
   Alderman Davis asked if there were any options for reducing the current
sewer rates. Alderman Mosteller stated it was unlikely the rates could be
lowered as they were calculated over the 20-year debt service.    
   Mayor Hatem praised the role of engineers in the lives of all.
   Alderman Sharkey motioned, second by Alderman Spencer that the City of
Southport staff work with the County towards an agreement to become a partner
in the regional wastewater treatment system of Brunswick County and in this
agreement the City pays the cost of the 750,000 gallons per day expansion to
the Shallotte Wastewater Treatment Plant so that the system will be able to
provide long term service for Southport residents. In addition, the City of
Southport seeks an agreement with Brunswick County to preserve the Southport
sewer district and to have a fair cost sharing formula for any future
expansions of the wastewater system.
Discussion
   Alderman Davis suggested multiple motions.
   Aldermen Sharkey and Mosteller spoke about the importance of retaining the
Southport sewer district to facilitate growth.
   Alderman Davis expressed concerns about the sewer district concept, adding
sewer customers, and potential growth.
   Alderman Spencer pointed out that the city needs to grow in order to
continue to pay for the infrastructure.
   Alderman Allen noted that wastewater treatment is a fixed expense and a way
to keep the rates low is to have a larger base of customers paying for it.
   Alderman Mosteller pointed out that a currently proposed development of 196
homes would add a 7% increase in the ad valorem taxes. David Fox, Public
Services Director, noted that development build out does not happen all at once
and the current proposed developments will put the wastewater flow at
approximately 630,000 gallons per day.
Unanimous Vote; motion carried.
ADJOURN
   Alderman Sharkey motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to adjourn the
Special Meeting at 7:12 p.m.
                        /s/ Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor
                           
Attest:    /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
   
FEBRUARY 13, 2020
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING   FEBRUARY 13, 2020
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor Joseph P. Hatem
            Aldermen Karen Mosteller, Lora Sharkey, Lowe Davis,
            Marc Spencer,   John Allen, Tom Lombardi
 
STAFF PRESENT:      Bruce Oakley, City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Todd Coring, Police Chief
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   David Fox, Public Works Director
   Randy Jones, Tourism Director
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   John Micheletto, Codes Administrator
   Thomas Lloyd, Planner
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Hatem called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
With respect to Black History Month, Mayor Hatem quoted from a September 12,
1962 speech by Reverend Martin Luther King Jr., the 15 th Amendment to the
Constitution and “A Prayer Answered.” Mayor Hatem read the 15 th Amendment. A
moment of silent prayer for the City, citizens, nation, the world and a moment
of reflection for a “Prayer Answered” was observed.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Mayor Hatem led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.   
D)   Approval of Agenda   
   Mayor Hatem asked for addition of the following to the Agenda:
      Proclamation, Black History Month
      Resolution, Appreciation of Bruce Oakley
      Resolution, Recognition of Fire Department
   Alderman Sharkey asked for addition of a discussion relating to the
Southport Weather Tower.
   Alderman Allen motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to approve the Agenda
as amended. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
ETHICS STATEMENT:   If any member of the Board knows of any conflict of
interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect to matters on
the agenda, to please so state it at this time.
   No Conflicts stated.
E)   Public Comment
   Ms. Joanne Mayer, 710 N. Atlantic Avenue, spoke about damages made to her
driveway during the repair of collapsed sewer lines. She indicated that she had
contacted city staff and was still waiting for repair of her driveway.
   Mr. John Keiffer & Spence Hayden, representing Up Your Arts, A non-profit
501c3 entity, updated the Board on the feasibility study to renovate the old
city hall. Noting that the group is making steady progress, Mr. Keiffer
reported that a mold remediation company is being contracted. Mr. Keiffer spoke
about the efforts to salvage wood from two large diseased oak trees removed
from the front of the old city hall. He presented Mayor Hatem and City Manager
Oakley with certificates of appreciation and candlestick holders made from the
wood and crafted by Spencer Hayden, Brunswick Community College professor and
initial founder of Up Your Arts. Mr. Keiffer pointed out that commemorative
items would be made out of the salvaged wood and sold for fundraising.
   Mr. Donnie Joyner, speaking on behalf of Ms. Pat Galloway, 818 W. 11 th
Street, thanked city staff for promptly alleviating her problem getting to her
residence.
   Mr. Donnie Joyner, expressed appreciation to the Mayor, Board and all
citizens for supporting Black History Month events. He stated that the funds
raised would be presented to the Food Pantry.
   Mr. Brayton Willis, Acting Chairman for the Environmental and Climate
Justice Committee of the Brunswick County Branch NAACP spoke to the Board. He
reported that the Branch had recently held its monthly meeting in Southport and
members spoke about area transportation concerns; i.e. accuracy of the
emergency evacuation routes and other alternatives to cross over the Cape Fear
River south of Town Creek. He talked about a request made to the Director of
the Wilmington Metropolitan Planning Organization (WMPO), to expand the
transportation planning area to include all communities south along the Cape
Fear River, including Southport. He noted that an interconnected transportation
system and link to the 3,000-mile East Coast Greenway would be beneficial to
the area.
   Ms. Susan Rabon, 306 River Drive, expressed appreciation to City Manager
Oakley for his service to the City.
   Referring to a recent article in the State Port Pilot, Ms. Lin Baker, 4359
Frying Pan Road, expressed her opinion about the Board adopting a Resolution to
NCDEQ pertaining to CPI’s discharge permits.      
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Davis motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to approve the Consent
Agenda. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Approval of Minutes for January 9, 2020 Regular Meeting; Minutes for January
27, 2020 Special Meeting – Interim City Manager; Minutes for January 27, 2020
Special Meeting – Short Term Rentals – approved
Agreement for Professional Services, Hazen and Sawyer – approved  (agreement on
file in the Clerk’s office)
Resolution: To NCDOT Requesting a Beautification Enhancement Project on NC 211
at Moore and Davis Streets – approved
Approval; Electric Infrastructure, N. Lord Street between 11th and 12th Streets
– approved  (plan on file in the Clerk’s office)
A RESOLUTION REQUESTING THE NORTH CAROLINA DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
UNDERTAKE A BEAUTIFICATION ENHANCEMENT PROJECT ON NC 211
WHEREAS, the safe use of roads and highways is of utmost importance to not only
the citizens of Southport, but also to our visitors from this great State and
other states and countries; and
WHEREAS, the City of Southport desires safety and beautification improvements
along the NC 211 corridor inside the municipal boundaries; and
WHEREAS, the City of Southport desires to work in concert with the North
Carolina Department of Transportation to develop a vision for enhancements to
Moore and Davis Streets, including a crosswalk, for the state-maintained road;
and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport, North Carolina, that the City of Southport commits to support the
pursuit of design and implementation of beautification enhancements along the
NC Highway 211 corridor, and commits to maintain the project and enforce any no
parking areas associated with it.
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, February 13,
2020.
   /s/ Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
Mayor Hatem read into the record A Proclamation proclaiming February as Black
History Month in the City of Southport and presented the Proclamation to Mr.
Donnie Joyner.
CITY OF SOUTHPORT PROCLAMATION
      WHEREAS, February has been designated as Black History Month and will be
observed in our community with a series of special presentations and exhibits;
and
      WHEREAS, this observance affords special opportunity to become more
knowledgeable about black heritage, and to honor the many black leaders who
have contributed to the progress of our nation; and
      WHEREAS, such knowledge can strengthen the insight of all our citizens
regarding the issues of human rights, the great strides that have been made in
the crusade to eliminate the barriers of equality for minority groups, and the
continuing struggle against racial discrimination and poverty;
      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that I, Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor for the
City of Southport, N.C. do hereby proclaim the month of February 2020 as:
BLACK HISTORY MONTH
   in the City of Southport and express special commendation to the dedicated
volunteers who have labored so diligently to make this observance a reality in
our area; and
      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that I urge all residents to make
special note of the various exhibits displayed in public buildings, attend
scheduled activities, and join together in making this a period of rededication
to the principles of justice and equality for all people.
      This the 13th day of February 2020.
                        /s/ Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor
   Mayor Hatem read into the record a Resolution recognizing the Southport Fire
Department and he presented the Resolution to Fire Chief Drew.
CITY OF SOUTHPORT RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, Laudations and Praises are extended to Southport first responders for
providing life saving actions on the evening of January 15, 2020 on N. Caswell
Avenue, and
WHEREAS, Southport Fire/Rescue responded within 2 minutes to a structure fire
and found the first floor fully engulfed in heavy smoke and flames, and
WHEREAS, Two months prior to the fire, the smoke alarms were installed in this
residence and those early warning devices alerted the resident, allowing her to
fight through the fire to safety, and
WHEREAS, the resident sustained burns on the face, neck, hands and arms, and
WHEREAS, the resident was stabilized on scene, transported to New Hanover
Regional Medical Center and then later moved to the Jaycee Burn Center in
Chapel Hill, NC, and
WHEREAS, Fire departments from Oak Island, Boiling Spring Lakes, St. James,
Sunny Point, and Ocean Isle Beach assisted as well as Brunswick County EMS, and
WHEREAS, a life was saved because of the skilled training and quick response of
the Southport Fire Department, and
WHEREAS, this action averted what could have been a tragic loss to our
community, family and friends, and
WHEREAS, this act deserves special recognition by the governing body of the
City of Southport.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Southport Board of Aldermen and the
citizens of this community extend sincere appreciation and special thanks to
the Southport Fire Department for their actions of January 15, 2020.
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen this the 13th day of February 2020.
/s/ Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk   
   Mayor Hatem read into the record a Resolution of Appreciation to City
Manager Bruce Oakley and he presented the Resolution to Mr. Oakley.
 
RESOLUTION of APPRECIATION BRUCE OAKLEY
WHEREAS, Bruce Oakley has served as City Manager for the City of Southport
since 2017, and
WHEREAS, Bruce Oakley has announced his plans to accept a position in a
neighboring community, and
WHEREAS, his years of service as City Manager has been exemplary through his
dedication and commitment, and
WHEREAS, City Manager Oakley focused on moving opportunities forward, and
WHEREAS, City Manager Oakley was instrumental in the recovery process of the
worst natural disaster to hit Southport since Hurricane Hazel; and
WHEREAS, City Manager Oakley took his fiduciary responsibility earnestly and
aided in raising the Fund Balance to nearly 40%, and
WHEREAS, City Manager Oakley was an inspiration and greatly bolstered employee
morale during his tenure, and
WHEREAS, City Manager Oakley has fostered stronger and more respectful
relationships with Brunswick County and surrounding Communities, and
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that Mayor Joseph P. Hatem and the Southport
Board of Aldermen express its sincere appreciation for Mr. Oakley’s loyal and
dedicated service to the community and wish Mr. Oakley continued success in all
future endeavors.
Presented this 13th day of February 2020.
                        /s/ Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor
Attest:  /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk       
AGENDA
5.   Resolution: To NCDEQ Requesting Modelling, Monitoring Data, Risk
Assessments and Additional Public Hearings Pertaining to CPI Pollutant
Discharge Permits
Mayor Hatem read the Resolution into the record.
CITY OF SOUTHPORT RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the City of Southport, NC is a community located in Brunswick County;
and
WHEREAS, the City of Southport is located at the confluence of the Cape Fear
river, Intracoastal Waterway and Atlantic Ocean; and
WHEREAS, CPI USA North Carolina LLC (CPI), a cogeneration power plant located
at 1281 Powerhouse Drive, Southport, NC, burns a mixture of coal, wood,
creosote-treated railroad ties, and used tires to generate steam and
electricity for sale; and
WHEREAS, all wastewater and stormwater discharge from CPI goes to the effluent
channel used by Duke Energy Progress at the Southport power station, which
discharges into the Atlantic Ocean approximately 2000 feet offshore of Caswell
Beach; and
WHEREAS, CPI has applied to North Carolina Department of Environmental Quality
(NCDEQ) for a renewal of its National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
(NPDES) permits for wastewater (Draft Permit NC0065099) and stormwater (Draft
Permit NCS000348); and
WHEREAS, NCDEQ has issued draft permits with conditions that would allow
increased volume of permitted discharges from the site.
FURTHERMORE, LET IT BE KNOWN THAT:
WHEREAS, given the uncertain makeup of the CPI burn mixture, a consistent waste
stream is difficult to envision; and
WHEREAS, bottom ash transport water and stormwater have been added to the
allowed discharge; and
WHEREAS, a bill has been introduced in the Georgia Legislature to ban the
burning of creosote-treated railroad ties as a fuel source due to the negative
health effects; and
WHEREAS, longer term historical data on the specific components and their
concentrations in various CPI discharges does not appear readily available on
the NCDEQ website for the permit applications; and
WHEREAS, NCDEQ states that “compliance with the limitations for 126 Priority
Pollutants shall be determined by engineering calculations which demonstrated
that the regulated pollutants are not detectable in the final discharge by
analytical methods in 40 CFR part 136 (in accord with 40 CFR 423.23 (d)(3))”;
and
WHEREAS, given the uncertainties, monitoring frequency of once per permit
cycle, i.e., once in 5 years, for Priority Pollutants of concern does not
appear adequate; and
WHEREAS, given the uncertainties, quarterly monitoring frequency of pollutants
of concern, which include copper and chromium, does not appear adequate; and
WHEREAS, said proposed CPI discharges have the potential to adversely impact
ocean water and on shore and offshore sand quality, with potential safety
ramifications for local and migratory marine species as well as humans; and
WHEREAS, the City of Southport relies on its reputation as a safe waterfront
community to attract tourism, the main economic driver for the City.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that, in the
best interest of environmental and public safety for the City of Southport and
other Brunswick County communities, the NCDEQ, before issuing a final permit,
shall make available to the public all modelling, existing individual component
historical monitoring data, and risk assessments, whether provided by CPI or
performed by NCDEQ or other scientifically qualified entities, which can be
used to understand the level of risk associated with the proposed discharge
streams.
BE IT ALSO RESOLVED that before any decision is taken by NCDEQ on granting the
two permits in question to CPI, additional public hearings shall be held and an
additional period of public comment on the applications and proposed/draft
permits shall be offered.
This the 13th day of February 2020.
                        /s/ Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor
Attested:   /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
 
   Alderman Lombardi motioned, second by Alderman Davis to adopt the
Resolution.
Discussion
   Referencing emails with NCDEQ, Alderman Sharkey noted that the agency
indicated there would be increased monitoring and more stringency. She stated
her opinion that it would be inappropriate to ask for more public hearings as
the review process has been ongoing since July with a public hearing held in
November. She emphasized that NCDEQ is taking the issue seriously and are
concerned about the well-being of residents.
   Mayor Hatem disagreed and stated it is an environmental disaster “for people
to be breathing what they’re wiping off their porches and car and what’s going
into the water and to the fish, the shrimp that we eat.”
Vote:   Aye:   Aldermen Lombardi, Davis, Allen, Mosteller, Spencer
   Nay:   Alderman Sharkey
Motion carried 5-1         
6.   Discussion: Holly Drive Address Duplication
   City Planner Lloyd explained that the street name Holly Drive is duplicated
in Southport and Boiling Spring Lakes. He stated that there had been occasions
when first responders had arrived at the wrong address due to the duplication.
He pointed out that records show Boiling Spring Lakes platted its street
earlier than Southport and Southport has just eight (8) residences on Holly
Drive. He recommended that the city change the street name and that staff meet
with residents.
   Alderman Mosteller motioned, second by Alderman Lombardi to direct staff to
contact property owners and for residents to name the street. Unanimous vote;
motion carried.
7.   City Pier Solar Lighting Project
   City Manager Oakley presented a City Pier light replacement project as
initially discussed at the Board February 1 Retreat.
   4 – 13 ft. Aluminum Poles
   4 – 45-Watt LED Lantern Light Fixtures
   4 - 320 Watt Solar Array Wraps
   4 – Batteries
   Software/Remote Control
   10 Year Warranty                  $ 29,500
   Labor (retire existing poles/lights/circuit);
     Install 4 poles with concrete bolts, lights and wraps    16,300
   Tax (State reimburses)                3,070
                     Total      $ 48,570
   Noting that the lights are programmable and can be dimmed down, Alderman
Mosteller motioned, second by Alderman Sharkey to approve the project.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
8.   Appointment(s) to Parks & Recreation Advisory Board
   Alderman Mosteller reported that Parks & Recreation Director Hemphill had
reviewed the applications received for three (3) Ward 1 vacancies and had
provided her recommendations.
Alderman Mosteller motioned, second by Alderman Spencer to appoint Ms.
Stephanie Jackson, Ms. Renee Spencer, and Ms. Emma Thomas to the Parks &
Recreation Advisory Board. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
9.   Appointment(s) to Planning Board
   Alderman Allen reported that 14 well qualified, talented applicants applied
for the Planning Board. He noted that per Board Retreat discussions,
establishing citizen committees to work on specific projects throughout the
City to help carry out Board set priorities was discussed, and he was hopeful
some of the applicants for the Planning Board would step up and help.
   Alderman Allen motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to appoint current
alternate in city Planning Board member Mr. Will Hewett to a full in city
position and to appoint Ms. Maureen “Mo” Meehan to the in city alternate seat.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
10.   Traffic Impact Analysis (TIA)
   Alderman Mosteller motioned, second by Alderman Allen to direct staff to
engage a traffic engineer to review the traffic impact study, including a
traffic diversion analysis, for Maple Leaf Drive not to exceed $5,000.
Discussion
   Responding to a query by Alderman Davis, City Manager Oakley explained that
a diversion study looked at routes that were not included in the original study
to determine what the traffic counts would be and what impact there would be on
adjoining properties..
   Unanimous vote; motion carried.
11.   Weather Tower
   Mayor Hatem reported that the city is waiting for a structural engineer’s
report on what can be done with the collapsed weather tower.
   Noting that the land the tower sits on is governed by the Parks and
Recreation Department, Alderman Sharkey motioned, second by Alderman Spencer to
direct the Parks and Recreation Advisory Committee to spearhead the project and
bring recommendations back to the Board of Aldermen.
   Alderman Sharkey stated it was “awkward” to accept donations when it is
unknown what the goal is and the cost to rebuild the tower.
Vote:   Aye:   Aldermen Sharkey, Spencer, Allen, Mosteller, Lombardi
   Nay:   Alderman Davis
   Motion carried 5 - 1
Committee Reports - None
   City Manager Report
   City Manager Oakley thanked the Board that hired him and the current Board
for their trust in him. He thanked the citizens for supporting him. He
expressed pride and appreciation to the loyal, hardworking, dedicated staff and
to his wife for her patience, support and defending him. He stated his
intentions for he and his family to remain a part of the community for a long
time.
   Staff Reports – provided in Agenda packet
   Mayor’s Comments
   Mayor Hatem stated appreciation to City Manager Oakley for helping him to
make the transition to Mayor.
   Mayor Hatem introduced Interim City Manager Chris May, former Executive
Director of the Cape Fear Council of Governments.
   Mayor Hatem stated that the process of establishing a non-profit group for
the Weather Tower Historic Landmark would continue.
   Mayor Hatem emphasized supporting and coordinating with Dosher Memorial
Hospital for emergency preparedness.
   Mayor Hatem thanked the State Port Pilot for the editorial regarding the
City going to the County for wastewater service and allocation.
   Mayor Hatem stated that 21 people attended “Meet With The Mayor.” He
announced that the next Meet would be held on the first Wednesday of every
month, 4:30 p.m. at the Indian Trail Meeting Hall, 113 W. Moore Street.
Board Comments
   Alderman Spencer emphasized the Board being part of the discussion relating
to an additional bridge to Wilmington.
   Alderman Spencer stated appreciation for City Manager Oakley.
   Alderman Sharkey reminded Board members to put topics of discussion on the
Agenda in lieu of speaking on them during Board Comments, in the event that
action needs to be taken.
   Alderman Sharkey thanked City Manager Oakley for his skill, patience, good
guidance and she wished him good luck.
   Alderman Davis encouraged adoption of pets from the Brunswick County Animal
Shelter.
   Alderman Davis announced that an “Ashes to Go Blessing” would be observed on
Ash Wednesday, February 26th by priests from St. Philips Episcopal Church at
Waterfront Park for three (3) hours midday.
   Alderman Lombardi announced that the Beautification Committee would be
participating in the Southport Day of Service, March 28th. He pointed out that
there are planting beds available at the Caswell Avenue Community Garden, there
is a food share program, and there is no scheduled meeting for the Board of
Adjustment.
   Alderman Mosteller asked for future consideration of creating an ad-hoc
committee to work on a strategic land use plan for the Yacht Basin.
   Alderman Mosteller stated her hope that the Planning Board would shepherd
the short term rental issue, place discussion on their agenda, and hold public
meetings.   
ADJOURN
   Alderman Allen motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to adjourn the
February 13, 2020 Regular Board meeting at 7:25 p.m. Unanimous vote; motion
carried.
                        /s/ Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor
                           
Attest:  /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
MARCH 12, 2020
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING MARCH 12, 2020
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor Joseph P. Hatem
            Aldermen Karen Mosteller, Lora Sharkey, Lowe Davis,
            Marc Spencer,   John Allen, Tom Lombardi
STAFF PRESENT:      Chris May, Interim City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director   
   Todd Coring, Police Chief
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   David Fox, Public Works Director
   Tom Stanley, Assistant Public Works Director
   Randy Jones, Tourism Director
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   John Micheletto, Codes Administrator
   Kate Marshall/Animal Protective Services/Code Enforcement Officer
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Hatem called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
A moment of silence was observed for those suffering with the Covid-19 virus.
Reverend Ronald Davis, Mount Carmel AME Church, gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Mayor Hatem led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Public Comment
   Ms. Peggy Campbell, 516 W. Brunswick Street, stated that she had seen a
surveyor in the marsh at the City Dock. She questioned what the surveyor was
doing. City Manager May responded that a survey was being performed to clarify
the boundaries of city owned property.
   Citing continued traffic impacts to Howe Street, Mr. Nick Kern, 415
Burrington Avenue, spoke in opposition to approval of 100 plus homes
subdivisions.   
E)   Approval of Agenda
   Alderman Spencer motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller, to amend the Board
of Aldermen agenda items submittal policy to the Wednesday one week prior to
the meeting. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Mayor Hatem asked for removal of agenda Item #6: Grease Control Ordinance
Violations.
   Alderman Mosteller motioned, second by Alderman Lombardi to approve the
Agenda as amended. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
ETHICS STATEMENT:  If any member of the Board knows of any conflict of interest
or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect to matters on the
agenda, to please so state it at this time.
F)   Special Recognition
   Mayor Hatem read the Resolution of Appreciation to Musette Steck into the
record and presented Ms. Steck with a framed copy.    
   CITY OF SOUTHPORT RESOLUTION
OF APPRECIATION TO
MUSETTE STECK
WHEREAS, the Mayor and Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina recognize with great appreciation the contributions of Musette Steck
to the city and its citizens throughout the last 24 years, and
WHEREAS, Musette is a life member and leader of the Southport Historical
Society and over the years she increased many residents’ appreciation of the
city’s history by teaching classes at Brunswick Community College and Harper
Library and by writing articles for the State Port Pilot, and
WHEREAS, Musette spearheaded the restoration of Southport’s Old Smithville
Burying Ground in 2006, and she encouraged the ongoing beautification of the
cemetery, thereby preserving a treasured part of Southport’s history and
providing a valuable resource for historians, and
WHEREAS, as an enhancement for visitors to the cemetery, Musette created the
“Living Voices” program in which local residents dress in the character of
people who were buried there long ago and tell the stories of those people’s
lives, and
WHEREAS, she has been a benefactor to a number of black churches in Southport,
and her dedication to unity and equality was honored by the Martin Luther King
Jr. Roundtable, which presented her with the prestigious Walter Welch Award,
and
WHEREAS, by her generosity in sharing her knowledge and love of history Musette
has been a constant friend to the City of Southport and to the people who live
and visit in this community for nearly a quarter of a century, and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Mayor Joseph P. Hatem and the Southport
Board of Aldermen present Musette Steck with this Resolution of Appreciation on
this 12th day of March 2020.
                   /s/ Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor
/s/ Lowe Davis, Alderman            /s/ Lora Sharkey, Alderman
/s/ John Allen, Alderman            /s/ Thomas Lombardi, Alderman
/s/ Marc Spencer, Alderman         /s/ Karen Mosteller, Alderman
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Davis motioned, second by Alderman Lombardi to approve the Consent
Agenda. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Minutes of February 1, 2020 Retreat, Priorities Portion; Minutes for February
10, 2020 Special Meeting, WWTP; Minutes for February 13, 2020 Regular Meeting –
approved
AGENDA
2.   Presentation/Discussion; Chip Seal
   Alderman Lombardi introduced an alternative to asphalt street resurfacing.
He indicated that a chip seal process could be applicable for rural and less
traveled streets, lasts five to seven years, stops infiltration and would be 1/
3 the cost.
3.   Consideration of Beautification Project; Boat Display at Caswell Avenue
and Bay Street
Mr. Nick Kern, 415 Burrington Avenue, spoke to the Board about a proposed
Beautification Committee project at W. Bay Street and S. Caswell Avenue. He
reported that a vintage metal lifeboat had been donated and the Beautification
Committee would like to place it at the entry to the Yacht Basin.
Alderman Lombardi motioned, second by Alderman Allen to approve the location of
the boat.
Discussion
   Alderman Allen questioned placement of the boat in the right-of-way.
   Alderman Sharkey stated she could not support placement of anything in the
right-of-way when a debate about right-of-way obstructions is ongoing.
   Alderman Mosteller pointed out that the right-of-way encroachment issue
pertains to private citizens encroaching on city property and the city puts
items in its’ own the right-of-way for the benefit of citizens.
   Alderman Spencer stated that he would rather see a sidewalk in that
location. Alderman Lombardi pointed out that there would still be room for a
sidewalk.
   Vote:   Aye:   Aldermen Lombardi, Allen, Davis & Mosteller
   Nay:   Aldermen Sharkey & Spencer
   Motion passed 4-2
4.   Presentation; Fire Department FY 2020-2021 Budget
   Prior to presenting the Fire Department FY 2020-2021 budget, Chief Drew
spoke about:
3/9 split insurance rating and efforts to get fire hydrants within 1,000 feet
of all structures in the fire district to garner a single insurance rating of 2
or 3
Fire hydrant flow testing throughout Southport and resultant water
discoloration
Concerns about rental of the Nash Street Fire Substation by his church. He
stated that a Facility Use Agreement is executed by all users, including his
Church, and a donation is made to the fire department.
 
Chief Drew pointed out that the substation has been leased for many years to
organizations such as the Boy Scouts, Progress Duke Energy, Muscular Dystrophy
Association, Brunswick County Sheriff’s Office, St. James AME Church, etc.
   Noting the Southport Fire Department budget goes through three approval
steps, Chief Drew presented the proposed Fire Department FY 2020-2021 budget to
the Board in accordance with requirements of the Brunswick County Fire Fees
Rating Committee and Brunswick County Commissioners. He reported that the
Southport Fire Department would not be recommending any increase in fire fees
and the budget would be submitted to the Board during budget considerations for
approval by the Board.
   Responding to a query from Alderman Allen, Chief Drew stated he had asked
for fire hydrant locations mapping from Brunswick County.
5.   Purchase of 1st Out Engine for Caswell Beach Fire Substation
   Chief Drew explained that the current 1st Out Engine at the Caswell Beach
Fire Substation is over 25 years old and experiencing pump problems. He
reported that funds are available for purchase without the need of financing.
He asked for authorization to proceed with obtaining bids. Responding to a
query from Alderman Davis, Chief Drew stated the old engine would be sold as
surplus.
   Alderman Spencer motioned, second by Alderman Allen to authorize Fire
Department personnel to proceed with the formal bid purchase process for
acquiring a 1st Out Engine for the Caswell Beach Fire Substation. Unanimous
vote; motion carried.
6.   Item removed from Agenda
7.   Police Department Security Improvements
   Chief Coring explained the proposed alterations to the City Hall second
floor Police Department as depicted in the Board’s agenda. He stated the
changes are proposed due to safety concerns. The modifications would provide
better control of access to the Police Department as stipulated in State
guidelines. He noted that the main entrance would be relocated, and a restroom
would be removed to be used as an evidence vault. He stated the proposed
changes had been cleared with the Building Inspector.
   City Manager May stated that the cost to perform the proposed alterations
had been quoted at $4,200 by an independent contractor who has also performed
work for the Fire Department.
   Alderman Spencer asked if the first floor of City Hall had been assessed for
additional security measures, specifically the payment collection area. Chief
Coring stated that an assessment is being made and current thoughts are that
glass partitions will be needed.
   Alderman Allen motioned, second by Alderman Sharkey to approve the Police
Department security improvements. Unanimous vote; motion carried. 
8.   Appointment(s) to Board of Adjustment
   Alderman Lombardi motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to accept the
recommendation of the Board of Adjustment Chair and reappoint Ms. Fosbury to a
full city seat; appoint Mr. Haislip to the city full seat vacated by Mr.
Lombardi (expiration December 2021); and appoint Mr. Josh McGee as a city
alternate for a three year term. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
9.   ETJ Appointment to Planning Board
   Alderman Mosteller motioned, second by Alderman Allen to recommend to the
Brunswick County Commissioners, the appointment of Mr. Christopher W. Jones,
1008 Dutchman Cove SE, as an Alternate Extraterritorial Jurisdiction (ETJ)
member of the Planning Board. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
10.   Appointment to ABC Board
   City Manager May pointed out that interviews of applicants for Board
appointed committees have routinely been conducted. He noted that interviews
have not been held for applicants to the ABC Board. The ABC Board Chairman and
the Board of Alderman liaison will conduct interviews and present a
recommendation to the Board of Alderman at a future meeting.
11.   Discussion; FEMA 101 Training Seminar & Disaster Management Services
Control Consultant; Johnson Environmental
   Public Works Director Fox presented two proposals from Johnson Environmental
for doing a training workshop for staff and city officials on FEMA compliance
and for providing disaster management services as needed during a FEMA declared
disaster. Alderman Mosteller pointed out that the cost of the workshop would be
$800. It was noted that the fees for disaster management would be reimbursable
from FEMA.
   Alderman Allen motioned, second by Alderman Lombardi to approve the contract
for Disaster Management Services on an hourly basis as needed and approve a
FEMA training workshop at a cost of $800. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
(contracts on file in the Clerk’s office)
Committee Reports - None
Manager’s Report
   City Manager May reported that an engineer, formerly with the Army, now in
private practice, and highly recommended by the State Historic Preservation
Office (SHPO), would have a design for replacement of the weather tower within
1-1/2 weeks. Mr. May stated that the design would be submitted to SHPO, the
Parks & Recreation Advisory Committee and then to the Board of Aldermen for
construction authorization. He noted that people have shown interest in
underwriting the cost and the structure was covered with $12,000 insurance.
   City Manager May reported that the City Dock project should soon receive
regulatory approvals and begin construction.
Staff Reports – provided in Agenda packet
   Mayor’s Comments
   Mayor Hatem spoke about the thoroughness of the engineer designing the
replacement Weather Tower and he thanked those contributing to the project.
   Mayor Hatem reported that the turnout was good during the recent Meet With
The Mayor.
   Mayor Hatem reported that he had spoken with Mr. Patrick Butler with North
Carolina Department of Environmental Quality (NCDEQ) regarding Capital Power.
   Mayor Hatem announced that a survey about what citizens want included in the
4th of July Festival would be distributed by the Southport Tourism Department.
   Mayor Hatem stated that Dr. Brad Hilaman had assumed CEO duties for Dosher
Memorial Hospital.
   Mayor Hatem provided an update on the Covid-19 virus:
Brunswick County EMS will pick up potential Covid-19 cases; Southport EMS will
not
Novant Hospital will be accepting Covid-19 patients; Dosher Hospital will not
Events where people would be gathering will be cancelled
Board Comments
Alderman Spencer expressed concern for city employees and their interaction
with the public. He proposed shutting down personal contact with citizens
paying utility bills and encouraging on-line payment by waiving the $5 user
fee.
Alderman Sharkey reported that the City of Wilmington is expected to pass a
resolution acknowledging ocean friendly establishments. She pointed out that
Wilmington is mirroring the resolution adopted June 2019 by the Southport Board
of Aldermen; SOUTHPORT RESOLUTION OF COMMENDATION AND SUPPORT OF ESTABLISHMENTS
PARTICIPATING IN THE SKIP THE STRAW PROGRAM TO PROMOTE THE REDUCTION OF PLASTIC
WASTE IN OUR CITY
   Responding to a query from Alderman Davis, Alderman Allen replied that the
traffic study for the Robert Ruark/Maple Leaf Drive, authorized at February’s
Board of Aldermen regular meeting, had been completed, is being reviewed by
staff, and will be available to the public at the March 19th Planning Board
meeting.
   Alderman Davis asked if a description of the proposed City Dock could be
provided. Alderman Mosteller explained that due to the fact the City could not
dredge the Yacht Basin, the City Dock would be rebuilt with a platform at the
end.
   Alderman Davis recognized the State Port Pilot for receiving 54 journalism
awards. She stated appreciation for having the quality newspaper in the
community.
   Alderman Lombardi announced that the Beautification Committee’s March 7th
clean up had 24 volunteers. He added that the Committee would be participating
in Southport Day of Service and would be planting ornamental grasses, staining
benches and swings and doing a waterfront marsh clean up.
   Alderman Mosteller emphasized the importance of everyone responding to the
Census and that the data collected would be used by federal, state and local
entities for making critical decisions for the next ten (10) years.
   Alderman Mosteller spoke about the NC Homestead Act that provides tax relief
to people 65 and over who own their homes, are permanent residents, and their
income is less than $31,000 annually. She pointed out that the relief can be as
much as 50%. She encouraged people to get the word out to fellow citizens that
could benefit from the program.
   Alderman Mosteller spoke about the Sergei Foundation, how it helps people
with sick and injured pets, and that an event is planned for March 21, 10:00 am
– 3:00 p.m. in the Yacht Basin.
   Alderman Mosteller shared comments of appreciation she received from her
neighbor about services performed by the Public Works Department. The neighbor
stated that it was clear to her that they cared about doing a good job, they
wanted to solve the problem and get it right, they kept their sense of humor
even in the rain, and didn’t mind her watching their efforts from her porch.
ADJOURN
   Alderman Lombardi motioned, second by Alderman Davis to adjourn the March
12, 2020 regular Board meeting at 7:46 p.m.
      
                        /s/ Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor
                           
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
MARCH 19, 2020
SPECIAL EMERGENCY MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  SPECIAL EMERGENCY MEETING MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING MARCH 19, 2020
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor Joseph P. Hatem
            Aldermen Karen Mosteller, Lora Sharkey, Lowe Davis,
            Marc Spencer,   John Allen, Tom Lombardi
STAFF PRESENT:      Chris May, Interim City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
   Todd Coring, Police Chief
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   Tyler Johnson, Deputy Chief
   Tom Stanley, Assistant Public Works Director
   Ellie Pittenger, Electrical Superintendent
   Randy Jones, Tourism Director
   B. Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
 
A)   Call to Order – 2:00 p.m.
Mayor Hatem called the special emergency meeting to order at 2:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Davis gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Mayor Hatem led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
DISCUSSION; COVID-19
   Mayor Hatem spoke about the unusual times the world, country, state, and
Southport are experiencing due to the Covid-19 pandemic. He stressed that the
worldwide pandemic is rapidly spreading, fatalities are increasing, and it is
the goal of every community to slow the spread and protect the health and
safety of its citizens. He pointed out that no one is immune, the virus can
stay on surfaces for days and the best defense against the spread of the virus
is social distancing. As the Medical Director of the ER at Dosher Memorial
Hospital, Mayor Hatem emphasized that the hospital staff are prepared, are
getting protective gear ready, and have a contingency plan.
   City Manager May stated that a contingency plan had been prepared in
relation to the number of virus cases within the City; from hand washing,
social distancing, closing offices, to a full-blown state of emergency. He
pointed out that the meeting was called to address rules, protocols, and
possible ordinance amendments to address the situation. He pointed out that
during the meeting social distancing was being adhered to for the Aldermen and
staff and the meeting was streaming live.
ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 6 CONCERNING MAYOR DUTIES DURING TIME OF EMERGENCY
   City Manager May explained that the City Attorney had reviewed Chapter 6,
Emergency Management, of the Code of Ordinances and amendments are recommended
to Article II consisting of Section 6-26 through 6-30.
   City Attorney Isenberg explained that the City’s ordinance, based on Chapter
166A of the general statutes, was outdated and the proposed amendments would
bring the City Ordinance up to date with the State enabling statutes.
   At the request of Alderman Davis, Attorney Isenberg read the Ordinance into
the record.
   Alderman Allen motioned, second by Alderman Sharkey to adopt the Ordinance
Amending Chapter 6, Emergency Management, of the Code of Ordinances as
presented.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 6 OF THE CODE OF ORDINANCES
BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport that Sections
6-26, 6-27, 6-28, 6-29 and 6-30 of the Code of Ordinances are hereby amended to
read as follows:
Section 6-26.- Determination of Emergency.
A state of emergency shall be deemed to exist whenever there is an occurrence
or imminent threat of widespread or severe damage, injury, or loss of life or
property resulting from any natural or man- made accidental, military,
paramilitary, terrorism, weather-related, public health, explosion-related,
riot-related cause, or technological failure or accident, including, but not
limited to, a cyber incident, an explosion, a transportation accident, a
radiological accident, or a chemical or other hazardous material incident.
Section 6-27.- Issuance of Proclamation.
In the event that the Mayor finds that an emergency as herein defined exists,
the Mayor is hereby authorized and empowered to issue a public proclamation
declaring to all persons the existence of such a state of emergency, and, in
order to more effectively protect the lives and property of people within the
city, to place in effect any or all of the restrictions hereinafter authorized.
Section 6-28.- Extent of Restrictions.
Unless the Mayor provides otherwise, the emergency area includes this entire
jurisdiction of the City, subject to the limitations contained in other
sections of this Chapter or state law. The Mayor declaring the state of
emergency may declare that the emergency area includes part or all of the
city’s jurisdiction. The Mayor may exempt from all or any part of such
restrictions law enforcement officers, firemen and other public employees,
doctors, nurses, employees of hospitals and other medical facilities; on-duty
military personnel, whether state or federal; on-duty employees of public
utilities, public transportation companies, and newspaper, magazine, radio
broadcasting and television broadcasting companies; and such other classes of
persons as may be essential to the preservation of public order and immediately
necessary to serve the safety, health and welfare needs of the people within
the city.
Section 6-29.- Imposition of Restrictions.
During the existence of a proclaimed state of emergency, the mayor may impose
by proclamation any or all of the following restrictions as the Mayor deems
necessary or suitable to a particular state of emergency:
(1) Of movements of people in public places, including any of the following:
a. Imposing a curfew.
b. Directing and compelling the voluntary or mandatory evacuation of all or
part of the population from any stricken or threatened area within the
governing body's jurisdiction.
c. Prescribing routes, modes of transportation, and destinations in connection
with evacuation.
d. Controlling ingress and egress of an emergency area, and the movement of
persons within that area.
e. Providing for the closure, within the emergency area, of streets, roads,
highways, bridges, public vehicular areas, or other areas ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, except to the movement of emergency responders and other
persons necessary for recovery from the emergency. In addition to any other
notice or dissemination of information, notification of any closure of a road
or public vehicular area under the authority of this sub-subdivision shall be
given to the Department of Transportation as soon as practicable.
(2) Of the operation of offices, business establishments, and other places to
or from which people may travel or at which they may congregate.
(3) Upon the possession, transportation, sale, purchase, and consumption of
alcoholic beverages.
(4) Upon the possession, transportation, sale, purchase, storage, and use of
gasoline, and dangerous weapons and substances, except that this subdivision
does not authorize prohibitions or restrictions on lawfully possessed firearms
or ammunition. As used in this subdivision, the term "dangerous weapons and
substances" has the same meaning as it does under G.S. 14-288.1. As used in
this subdivision, the term "firearm" has the same meaning as it does under G.S.
14-409.39(2).
(5) Upon other activities or conditions the control of which may be reasonably
necessary to maintain order and protect lives or property during the state of
emergency.
Section 6-30.- End of Emergency.
A state of emergency and the restrictions and prohibitions declared pursuant
thereto shall expire when terminated by the Mayor.
   This 19th day of March, 2020.         City of Southport
                     /s/Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/Michele Windham, Clerk
EMERGENCY DECLARATION
   Mayor Hatem read into the record a proposed proclamation declaring a state
of emergency. He explained that he was not declaring a state of emergency at
this time and he would consult with each Alderman via telephone in the event it
was necessary to declare a state of emergency.
PROCLAMATION BY MAYOR DECLARING A STATE OF EMERGENCY IN THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT
PURSUANT TO CHAPTER 6 OF THE CODE OF ORDINANCES
THAT WHEREAS, Covid-19 is a respiratory disease that can result in death or
serious illness to persons affected thereby, including citizens and residents
of the City of Southport; and
WHEREAS, the World Health Organization has declared Covid-19 a Public Health
Emergency of International Concern and a global pandemic; and
WHEREAS, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (“CDC”) has determined
that Covid-19 is a public health threat globally and specifically in the United
States and that travel restrictions should be implemented, and mass gatherings
be prohibited; and
WHEREAS, the United States Department of Health and Human Services Secretary
has declared a public health emergency in the United States for Covid-19; and
WHEREAS, the Governor of the State of North Carolina declared a State of
Emergency on March 10, 2020, in order to prevent the spread of Covid-19; and
WHEREAS, the President of the United States has declared that the Covid-19
outbreak in the United States constitutes a national emergency; and
WHEREAS, declaring a state of emergency and imposing the restrictions and
prohibitions ordered herein is necessary to maintain and protect the public
health;
NOW, THEREFORE, I, Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor of the City of Southport, do hereby
declare and proclaim a State of Emergency within the entire jurisdiction of the
City of Southport.
FURTHERMORE, in response to said Proclamation, the following restrictions and
prohibitions are hereby imposed within the City of Southport:
INSERT HERE RESTRICTIONS AFFECTING THE GENERAL PUBLIC LIKE MASS GATHERINGS,
HOURS OF OPERATION OF BUSINESS ETC.
This the __ day of __________, 2020.      City of Southport
 
                        /s/ Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor
FACILITIES PROTOCOLS
   City Manager May and Alderman Allen read into the record the Resolution
Setting Forth and Establishing Protocols for the City of Southport and Its’
Employees Due to the Covid-19 Pandemic.
RESOLUTION SETTING FORTH AND ESTABLISHING PROTOCOLS FOR THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT
AND ITS’ EMPLOYEES DUE TO THE COVID-19 PANDEMIC
WHEREAS, in order to respond to the public health crisis related to the COVID-
19 pandemic, and in order to protect the employees, citizens and residents of
the City of Southport, the Board of Aldermen has determined that the following
policies and protocols are necessary;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport that the following protocols and policies are hereby established and
are in effect from the date hereof until such time as they are terminated by
the City Manager after consultation with the Mayor.
City Protocols  
Provide public Access streaming for all meetings to reduce need for attendance
by the public.
Public comments may be submitted electronically to www.southportnc.org and will
be read into the record by the Mayor.
Cancel any meetings that are not necessary to continuity of operations of the
City.
Reduce in-person meetings and make every attempt to conduct public interaction
on phone or via email.
Essential in-person meetings shall be limited to the parking lot or under the
balcony at City Hall or otherwise outside of other offices. Staff are not to
take members of the Public back to their offices.
All employee and BOA travel outside of the County for City Business is
restricted.
Citizens will be encouraged to use our Pay Online feature of our website for
permits, tickets, and other fees. The “convenience” charge has been waived
during this contingency.
Any Special Event scheduled is subject to being cancelled. The Governor is
advising that any gathering of 50 people be cancelled. The City will do what it
can to facilitate rescheduling but can make no guarantees.
Social distancing practices must be observed by City personnel.
Individual departments may establish operating procedures that allow them to
carry out their functions and still allow for social distancing practices. This
may include telecommuting.
Facility Protocols 
All City of Southport Public Buildings are closed to the Public until further
notice, effective Monday March 23, 2020.
Parks are open to the general public, but social distancing practices are
strongly encouraged.
Park public restrooms will be closed until further notice.
City Hall restrooms will be cleaned daily.
The Police common areas shall be cleaned twice daily by the officers coming off
shift.
All Fire Stations shall be cleaned daily. Common areas shall be cleaned after
each gathering.
Before and after meetings, all flat surfaces shall be disinfected, including
chairs.
Common areas shall be wiped down daily.
Employee Protocols 
Observe social distancing practices.
Clean your hands often.
Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds, especially
after blowing your nose, coughing, or sneezing, or having been in a public
place.
If soap and water are not available, use a hand sanitizer that contains at
least 60% alcohol.
To the extent possible, avoid touching high-touch surfaces in public places –
elevator buttons, door handles, handrails, handshaking with people, etc. Use a
tissue or your sleeve to cover your hand or finger if you must touch something.
Wash your hands after touching surfaces in public places.
Avoid touching your face, nose, eyes, etc.
Clean and disinfect your office/workspace/equipment to remove germs: practice
routine cleaning of frequently touched surfaces (for example: tables,
doorknobs, light switches, handles, desks, toilets, faucets, sinks, armrests &
cell phones)
Avoid crowds, especially in poorly ventilated spaces. Your risk of exposure to
respiratory viruses like COVID-19 may increase in crowded, closed-in settings
with little air circulation if there are people in the crowd who are sick.
If an employee is sick, they shall contact their supervisor and their primary
medical provider, and in no case shall they be permitted to come to work until
they are well.
Secondary employment should be reviewed and determined if there is an increased
risk of exposure. If so, it is advised – not required – that employees take a
leave of absence from their secondary employment to reduce the risk of
exposure.
Employees meeting the CDC designation as “at risk” may telecommute remotely
from home. If their duties cannot be performed remotely, they shall be given
administrative leave on a case by case basis.
Additional Protocols in The Event That the Mayor and Board of Aldermen Declares
A State of Emergency:
State of Emergency Protocols 
Staff that can conduct their work offsite will telecommute to work and work
from someplace other than their office. Trips into their office to collect/
print files should be planned so that there is minimal contact with the public
or other employees.
Employees will be required to forward their desk phones to their City provided
phones. Calls may be muted after business hours, but phones shall be checked
frequently enough to receive communications from supervisors and the
Administration.
Employees whose work does not involve intensive public interaction shall
operate as normal with the exception that as soon as their daily
responsibilities are fulfilled, they shall be excused from work for the
remainder of the ay.
No in-person meetings will be conducted between Staff and the Public unless in
the event of an emergency. All contact will be through telephone or email
communications.
Essential in-person meetings shall be limited to the parking lot or under the
balcony at City Hall or otherwise outside of other offices. Staff are not to
take members of the Public back to their offices.
Planning and Inspections operations will consist of dropping off documentation
for review but no in- office consultations. Citizens who have documents and
plans for planning review should call ahead and arrange hand-off in the parking
lot if they are not able to submit digitally. Payment for permits shall be done
online.
Building and site inspections will operate as normal with the exception that as
soon as the daily inspections are finished, building inspectors are to take
work home and conduct plan review off-site.
Commercial fire inspections will continue as needed.
Any scheduled fire safety and CPR educations sessions will be postponed.
Police will operate as normal, though social distancing practices are to be
followed as much as possible.
Police interaction with community watch meetings is suspended.
All City Council meetings will be streamed live on YouTube if not cancelled.
The public will not be allowed to attend. Public comments may be submitted
electronically to www.southportnc.org. The Mayor will read them into the record
during any meeting that may be scheduled.
The statutorily mandated Planning Board and Zoning Board of Adjustment may meet
but attendance shall be limited to essential staff and the applicant(s). The
meetings will be steamed like the BOA and comments may be submitted
electronically and will be read into the minutes. All other board meetings are
cancelled, including hosted citizen meetings using City facilities, until the
State of Emergency is over.
All Special Events hosted or permitted by the City will be cancelled until
State of Emergency is lifted.
All employee and BOA travel outside of the County for City Business is
prohibited
Board members discussed social distancing, gatherings of more than 10 people,
and enforcement against large gatherings. City Attorney Isenberg pointed out
that under State Law the Police Chief has enforcement authority when a State of
Emergency is declared.
Responding to a query from Alderman Sharkey relating to facilities protocol,
City Manager May indicated that city facilities would be closed when a State of
Emergency was declared.
Alderman Allen motioned, second by Alderman Spencer to Adopt the Resolution
Establishing Protocols for the City of Southport and Its’ Employees due to the
Covid-19 Pandemic and granting the City Manager authority to cancel or amend
the protocols as needed.  
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
      …………………………………………………………………………
   Board members discussed potential cancellations and delays of Planning
Board, Board of Adjustment and Committee meetings. Attorney Isenberg reported
that a School of Government (SOG) webinar urged cancellation of advisory board
meetings.
   City Manager May asked about delays of development submittals. Attorney
Isenberg stated that he had not yet seen information related to development
submittals and he suggested holding streaming meetings with applicants. He
further reported that the SOG recommended adoption of a resolution giving the
Mayor power to cancel meetings or giving cancellation authority to the Chairs
of the boards and committees.
   Alderman Allen motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to authorize the Mayor
to cancel any regularly scheduled meetings of Board appointed committees and
boards as deemed necessary. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
PERSONNEL POLICY
   City Manager May explained that the proposed Personnel Policy amendments
would bring the City into compliance with FEMA guidelines and would expedite
reimbursements relating to employee pay during times of emergency.
   Alderman Sharkey motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to amend the
Employee Personnel Policy as proposed so overtime for a state of emergency
provides that exempt employees are compensated with regular time pay plus time
and 1/2. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   City Manager May reported that the Covid-19 Pandemic is a FEMA declared
emergency and city staff are capturing expenses towards reimbursement requests.
RESOLUTION AMENDING SECTION 30 OF THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT PERSONNEL POLICY
   BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport that
Section 30 of the City of Southport Personnel Policy is hereby amended to read
as follows:
Section 30. Adverse Weather/Hazardous Conditions/Non-Emergent Closure and State
of Emergency
The City has responsibility for several emergency services including law
enforcement and fire services. Adequate staffing is required to operate these
critical services seven days per week and 24 hours per day in all weather.
Department heads should designate which staff members are in critical positions
required to report to work regardless of weather or other hazardous conditions.
The adverse weather/hazardous conditions/non-emergent closure and State of
Emergency policy is established to be as fair as possible to all employees
applying the following principles:
1.   Maintain adequate staffing at all times of emergency services;
2.   Provide for as much safety as possible for all employees in traveling to
and from work in hazardous conditions; and
3.   To fairly compensate employees who are required to be at work, while other
employees are not.
City offices and departments shall remain open for the full scheduled working
day unless authorization for closing or other deviation is received from the
City Manager’s office. The Manager, in consultation with the Fire Chief and
Chief of Police, will consider the hazard of driving conditions and other
relevant factors in determining whether to close City offices. All departments
and offices will be given sufficient notice of any authorized closing of
noncritical City functions.
During inclement weather, City offices may be open for business. As such, all
employees are expected to report for their scheduled shift. Due to
discretionary judgment, an employee who does not work their scheduled hours
must use ‘leave’ in order to be paid for the hours not worked. Leave usage will
be utilized in the following order:
•   Comp time may be used
•   Annual leave may be used if comp time exhausted
•   Sick leave may be used if comp time and annual leave have been exhausted
•   If no leave, employee must take leave without pay
When City offices are closed during a declared State of Emergency, essential
employees as designated by the City Manager may work. During the State of
Emergency, premium pay will be paid for all hours worked during the time the
City is closed for business:
•   Non-Exempt Employees will be compensated at 1.5 times the regular rate for
all hours worked during closure.
•   Exempt Employees will be compensated at 1.5 times the regular rate for all
hours worked during the closure.
When non-exempt employees are required to report during unscheduled closings or
delayed openings, they will be paid at their regular hourly rate, plus overtime
for any hours worked. Exempt employees who are required to work will receive
their regular pay for the period plus one time the regular rate for all hours
worked.
   This the 19th day of March, 2020.         City of Southport
                     /s/ Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
UTILITY ORDINANCE
   City Manager May explained that for a utility customer to pay their utility
bill online, there is a $5 convenience fee. He recommended waiving the
convenience fee during the Covid-19 Pandemic to encourage more on-line payment
and reduce person to person contact with city staff.
   City Manager May recommended that through the duration of the Covid-19
Pandemic, there be no utility shutoffs due to non-payment.
   Alderman Allen motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to adopt the Ordinance
Amending Chapter 19 as related to utilities. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 19 OF THE CODE OF ORDINANCES IN RESPONSE TO
COVID-19 PANDEMIC
THAT WHEREAS, Covid-19 is a respiratory disease that can result in death or
serious illness to persons affected thereby, including citizens and residents
of the City of Southport; and
 WHEREAS, the United States Department of Health and Human Services Secretary
has declared a public health emergency in the United States for Covid-19; and
WHEREAS, the Governor of the State of North Carolina declared a State of
Emergency on March 10, 2020, in order to prevent the spread of Covid-19; and
WHEREAS, the President of the United States has declared that the Covid-19
outbreak in the United States constitutes a national emergency; and
WHEREAS, electricity, water and sanitary sewer are essential to the public
health of all citizens, especially during this Covid-19 pandemic;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen that:
All provisions in Chapter 19 of the Code of Ordinances related to the cut- off
of utilities for nonpayment shall be suspended until further notice by the
Board of Aldermen; provided, however, that this does not cancel or release the
amounts owed but simply suspends the cut-off provisions until such time that
the Board of Aldermen determines.
The fee for paying the City with a credit card is hereby waived to encourage
on-line payments until such time that the Board of Aldermen determines.
This the 19th day of March, 2020.            City of Southport
                        /s/ Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk            
BOARD COMMENTS
   Alderman Allen asked the City Manager and Finance Director to examine what
fiscal impact the Covid-19 Pandemic may have on the FY 2020-2021 budget.
Alderman Davis asked for projections of Federal aid that may become available.
   Responding to a query from Alderman Allen, Mayor Hatem stated that the March
Planning Board meeting had been cancelled. Citing the importance of the Unified
Development Ordinance update, City Manager May encouraged holding Committee
meetings via teleconferencing whenever possible.
   Alderman Spencer stated appreciation for the efforts of the Mayor, Board,
City Manager and staff during unprecedented times.
   Mayor Hatem encouraged everyone to stay safe, healthy, strong, and practice
social distancing.
ADJOURN
   Alderman Mosteller motioned, second by Alderman Allen to adjourn the Special
Emergency Meeting at 3:16 p.m.
                        /s/ Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor
                           
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
APRIL 9, 2020
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING APRIL 9, 2020
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor Joseph P. Hatem
            Aldermen Karen Mosteller, Lora Sharkey, Lowe Davis,
            Marc Spencer,   John Allen, Tom Lombardi
STAFF PRESENT:      Chris May, Interim City Manager
            Michele Windham, City Clerk via streaming
            Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
            Lisa Anderson, Videographer
      
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Hatem called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m. Mayor Hatem stated that in
order to adhere to COVID-19 mandates, the meeting was being streamed live on
Facebook and no audience was in attendance.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Davis gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Mayor Hatem led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Public Comment
   Mayor Hatem read the following Public Comments into the record:
   “After attending the Planning Board meeting regarding the proposed Bill
Clark development off Robert Ruark Drive, I feel compelled to offer my
opposition to the developer’s use of Robert Ruark for both an entrance and an
exit. I do not know how the original plan with an exit onto 211 was ditched and
replaced with the current proposal. The traffic that will ensue on Robert Ruark
and at the light at Howe and Ruark will be a nightmare. The subdivision that
will be used for an exit is not equipped for such traffic. It is my hope that
you all, as our officials, both appointed and elected will serve the residents
of Southport and oppose this ludicrous proposal.”
Vicki Morrison
Dear Mayor, Alderman and City Officials:
“In light of the negative economic impacts that COVID-19 is already having on
the travel industry, the Southport-Oak Island Area Chamber of Commerce board of
directors asks that all work, discussion and voting on a short term rental
ordinance cease until the public is able to attend meetings of the alderman and
planning board committee in person. Verbal communication is important for the
public to know their "voice" has been heard.
We have attached the Chamber's position but are hopeful that you will give the
travel industry the chance to voice their concern. This issue is very important
and will have a lasting effect on tourism and real estate sales in the City.”
Sincerely,
Southport-Oak Island Area Chamber of Commerce
Board of Directors
E)   Approval of Agenda
   Alderman Mosteller motioned, second by Alderman Lombardi to approve the
Agenda. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
ETHICS STATEMENT:   If any member of the Board knows of any conflict of
interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect to matters on
the agenda, to please so state it at this time.
    No Conflicts stated
F)   Special Recognition – Arbor Day Proclamation
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2128_1620x1620.jpg]
CITY OF SOUTHPORT ARBOR DAY PROCLAMATION
WHEREAS, in 1872, J. Sterling Morton proposed to the Nebraska Board of
Agriculture that a special day be set aside for the planting of trees, and
WHEREAS, this holiday called Arbor Day, was first observed with the planting of
more than a million trees in Nebraska, and
WHEREAS, Arbor Day is now observed throughout the nation and the world, and
WHEREAS, trees can reduce the erosion of our precious topsoil by wind and
water, cut heating and cooling costs, moderate the temperature, clean the air,
produce life-giving oxygen, and provide habitat for wildlife, and
WHEREAS, trees are a renewable resource giving us paper, wood for our homes,
fuel for our fires, and
WHEREAS, trees in our city increase property values, enhance the economic
vitality of business areas, and beautify our community, and
WHEREAS, trees in our city are a great source of joy and spiritual renewal.
NOW, THEREFORE, I Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor of the City of Southport, NC, and the
Board of Aldermen, do hereby proclaim April 27, 2020 as ARBOR DAY in the City
and urge all citizens to celebrate and support efforts to protect our trees and
woodlands, and
FURTHER, I urge all citizens to plant trees to gladden the heart and promote
the well-being of this and future generations.
DATED, this 9th day of April, 2020.         City of Southport
                     BY:/s/ Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor   
                                    
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
CONSENT AGENDA
1.   Approval of Minutes for March 12, 2020 Regular Meeting; Minutes of March
19, 2020 Special Emergency Meeting, COVID-19
   Mayor Hatem pointed out a revision, submitted by Alderman Lombardi, to the
March 12, 2020 Regular Meeting Minutes, Item 2 – Presentation/Discussion, Chip
Seal:   
Alderman Lombardi introduced an alternative to asphalt street resurfacing. He
indicated that a chip seal process could be applicable for rural and less
traveled streets, lasts five to seven years, stops infiltration and could
reduce paving costs by one-third would be 1/3 the cost.
   Alderman Sharkey motioned, second by Alderman Davis to approve the March 12,
2020 Regular Meeting Minutes as amended. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Alderman Davis motioned, second by Alderman Mosteller to approve the March
19, 2020 Special Emergency Meeting Minutes as presented. Unanimous vote; motion
carried.
AGENDA
2.   Amendment to Personnel Policy Section 30, State of Emergency Pay as it
Applies to Pandemic
Attorney Isenberg clarified that the Personnel Policy amendment adopted in
March was intended to apply to a hurricane situation and not a pandemic and
that this should be clarified in the Policy.
Alderman Davis motioned, second by Alderman Lombardi to amend the Personnel
Policy to reflect that the changes adopted March 12, 2020 apply to hurricane
type situations when the employees are coming in to work when the City is
closed, but the adopted amendment does not apply to a pandemic.
Discussion
Noting that many City employees are reporting to work while under a State of
Emergency and the Governor’s March 27 stay at home mandate, Alderman Spencer
suggested recognition of those employees.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
3.   COVID-19 Fiscal Impact Report
   a.   Current Year & FY 2020/2021 Projected Local Sales Tax Collection
      Report included in Agenda packet and on file in the Clerk’s office.
   b.   Current Year & FY 2020/2021 Projected Occupancy Tax Collection
Report included in Agenda packet and on file in the Clerk’s office.
   c.   Current Year & FY 2020/2021 Projected Motor Vehicle Tax Collection
Report included in Agenda packet and on file in the Clerk’s office.
City Manager May reported that the League of Municipalities had analyzed
projected State revenues and found that revenues could be impacted by as much
as 50% due to the COVID-19 pandemic: sales tax, beer & wine tax, vehicles tax,
and unpaid property taxes due to high unemployment.
Due to the COVID-19 pandemic impact on the economy, City Manager May noted that
FY 2020/2021 Budget may need to be supplemented from fund balance or severely
reduced.
Alderman Allen pointed out that projections for the current fiscal year reflect
a deficit of $250,000 and the FY 2020/2021 projections show a deficit of
$400,000+. He asked if the Finance Director could provide FY 2019/2020 & 2020/
2021 ABC revenue projections and current fund balance.
Alderman Spencer stated that he had attended the ABC Board meeting and it was
reported that revenues were $100,000 over budget.
   d.   Project(s) Status:
      1.   Waterfront Stabilization
   City Manager May reported that he would be contacting Engineer Phil Norris
who currently has the design phase of the project.
      2.   City Dock
Attorney Isenberg reported that the City had received a FEMA funding extension
on the project and staff is working with CAMA to get them the information
needed for the Major CAMA permit. He pointed out that the City had to draft a
proposal designating a riparian line. He stated that he had phone conversations
with the Department of Coastal Management (DCM) attorney, and the project was
moving forward.
      3.   Weather Tower
Mayor Hatem reported that, to date, over $4,000 has been received in donations
toward restoration of the weather tower. He noted that the preliminary design
drawings had been submitted to the State Historic Preservation Office (SHPO)
for their approval. He added that the design will incorporate the original
weathervane, mullet, and parts of the tower. Mayor Hatem stated that the
project would be reviewed by the Parks & Recreation Advisory Board prior to
submittal to the Board of Aldermen.
      4.   WWTP
City Manager May reported that following a conference call with the County, it
was determined that John Nichols, Brunswick County Public Utilities Director,
would prepare a proposal for the Brunswick County Board of Commissioners
followed by submittal to the Southport Board of Aldermen.
   e.   FY 2020-2021 Budget Status
City Manager May outlined the budget schedule:
Department Heads complete budget by mid-April
Meetings with Finance Director and Department Heads will be completed by the
end of April
The Board will be presented the budget and have needed workshops in May
Final budget by June 1; Public Hearing held during June 11th regular Board
meeting
   f.   City Manager Position
City Manager May reported that 19 candidates had submitted applications for the
City Manager position. He stated that five (5) have excellent qualifications,
the majority have city manager experience, one is just out of college and
another is a former city manager of San Bernardino, California. Mayor May
stated that he would provide copies of the applications for the Board to review
and to choose five (5), then send written questionnaire, pick three (3) to
interview in May and provide time for final candidate to give notice. City
Manager May noted that three (3) candidates were between jobs.
Responding to a query by Alderman Allen, City Manager May indicated that the
submittal deadline was open ended, until filled.
4.   Discussion; Battery Island Bird Nesting/Audubon Society
   Noting that the Naturefest event had been cancelled, Alderman Sharkey shared
information pertaining to the two uninhabited islands between Southport and
Bald Head Island that are bird sanctuaries. Alderman Sharkey stated that Ms.
Lindsey Addison, North Carolina Audubon Biologist for this area and who manages
the islands, asked that if anyone sees people on those islands to notify the
North Carolina Wildlife Resources Law Enforcement at 800-662-7137. Alderman
Sharkey pointed out that Southport Animal Protective Services Officer, Kate
Marshall, could also be contacted at 457-7900 or 477-1486. Alderman Sharkey
shared information regarding an Audubon virtual field trip of the islands.
5.   Appointment(s) to ABC Board
Mayor Hatem pointed out that Alderman Spencer had advised the Clerk that
applicant interviews were still pending, and a recommendation could not be made
at this time.    ABC Board liaison, Alderman Spencer, stated that telephone
interviews were scheduled for Wednesday, April 15, 10:00 AM – 2:00 PM and an
appointment recommendation would be presented to the Board at the next meeting.
MANAGER’S COMMENTS
   Noting that the Board is statutorily required to hold a monthly meeting,
City Manager May recommended brevity to comply with social distancing mandates.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
   Alderman Mosteller reported that the Planning Board is continuing the work
of the City with virtual meetings. She pointed out that the UDO update project
is on-going. She stated that the April 16, 6:00 p.m. meeting of the Planning
Board would be held and advised checking the City’s web page for updates.
   Alderman Spencer reported that the ABC store is in the process of buying
back unused bottles from retail establishments.
   As liaison to the 4th of July Committee, Alderman Spencer congratulated the
Mayor on making a very hard decision to cancel the 4th of July event.
   Alderman Lombardi reported that the donated lifeboat had been moved to
Stevens Park to be cleaned and painted. He thanked Mr. Ray Jenkins, Southport
resident and owner of R & R Powder Coating, who has sandblasted the boat.
Alderman Lombardi stated that two coats of white paint had been put on the boat
by himself and one other individual. He thanked city staff for getting the boat
and turning it during the painting process.
   Alderman Davis reported that the Arbor Day observation had been cancelled.
She pointed out that for 16 years Southport has been designated a Tree City USA
Community by the National Association of State Foresters and the Arbor Day
Foundation. She pointed out that the designation is not merely awarded on the
number of trees a community has, but the honor goes to cities that officially
meet standards for taking care of trees and canopy. Alderman Davis reported
that a good size Live Oak had been selected and would be planted in front of
the former City Hall where a large Live Oak was recently lost. She indicated
that the 16 trees planted in February were alive and well and the 10 planted
last year are in foliage.
   Alderman Davis reported that four (4) applications had been received for
appointment to the Forestry Committee and interviews would be held when it was
safe to do so.
   Alderman Davis promoted free and minimal cost webinars to learn about trees
that can be linked through the Forestry Committee section of the City’s web
page.
   Alderman Sharkey reported that ElectriCities had been meeting
electronically.
STAFF REPORTS – provided in Agenda packet
BOARD COMMENTS
   Responding to a query by Alderman Spencer, Mayor Hatem confirmed that all
city facilities were closed to group gatherings, including the Community
Building. City Manager May indicated that refunds would be issued for any
reservations made and he verified that all city events are cancelled until
Labor Day.
   Noting the uncertainties due to the Coronavirus Pandemic, Alderman Sharkey
spoke about business owners reaching out to her regarding Southport’s economic
and social welfare, i.e., people normally employed and now out of work, at home
and stressed. She stated that people may fall into bad habits that could linger
beyond the lockdowns and she wondered what the community can do to think about
it holistically. She suggested talking about the concerns and planning, based
on data and recommendations from the State, how and what can be opened up. She
shared a question posed to her that she did not have an answer for; Just
because the City is not holding an event, does that mean a business cannot hold
an event in July or August? She emphasized improving communication so people
would not get more nervous and to demonstrate that the Board is working on
those issues and helping everybody.
   Mayor Hatem stated that there is a very robust communication system in
place, and he thanked Information Officers, Randy Jones, and Lisa Anderson, for
broadcasting information via social media, i.e. press releases, questions and
answers, and videos. Noting that volunteer and non-profit groups are assisting
businesses, Mayor Hatem concurred that the current economic climate is
extremely arduous for businesses.
   Alderman Spencer stated that he has not been receiving e-mail updates and
has had to find information on social media. He expressed his support of Mayor
Hatem and noted that the Mayor has only the best interests of the community at
heart. Referencing his role with the 4th of July Committee, Alderman Spencer
pointed out that his first year as Alderman the Committee had to cancel the 4th
of July fireworks due to a lightning storm and the second year, the 4th of July
event in its entirety has been cancelled. He encouraged people to be generous
in spirit, to support leaders, to be patient and know that Southport will get
through the trying times.
ADJOURN
   Alderman Davis motioned, second by Alderman Allen to adjourn the April 9,
2020 regular Board meeting. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   
                        /s/ Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor
                           
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
MAY 6 AND 8, 2020
City of Southport
Special Work Session-Manager Interviews
The Mayor and Southport Board of Aldermen met Wednesday May 6, 2020 at the
Southport Community Center to interview candidates for the position of City
Manager. Mayor Joe Pat Hatem presided. Mayor ProTem Mosteller, Aldermen
Spencer, Sharkey, Davis, Lombardi, and Interim Manager May attended. Alderman
Allen participated via teleconference. Interim Manager May recorded the
minutes. The meeting as called to order at 9:15 AM by Mayor Hatem who called
for a motion to enter Executive Session to consider qualifications and
interview candidates for Southport City Manager. Mayor ProTem Mosteller so
moved, seconded by Alderman Davis, and the motion carried unanimously.
Following interviews and subsequent consideration of qualifications, Mayor
ProTem moved to come out of Executive Session at 4:50 PM, seconded by Alderman
Allen. The motion carried unanimously. With all in agreement that they needed
an opportunity to consider all they heard; Mayor Hatem called for a motion to
recess until Friday May 8th at 10:00 AM at the Indian Trail Meeting Hall.
Alderman Davis so moved, seconded by Alderman Lombardi. The motion carried
unanimously. The meeting recessed at 5:05 PM.
The Mayor and Southport Board of Aldermen reconvened in special work session on
Friday May 8, 2020 at 10:00 AM at the Indian Trail Meeting Hall to continue
review and consideration of qualifications of City Manager candidates. Mayor
Hatem presided. Mayor ProTem Mosteller, Aldermen Spencer, Sharkey, Davis,
Lombardi, Allen, and Interim Manager May attended. Interim Manager May recorded
the minutes. Mayor Hatem called the meeting to order at 10:05 AM and called for
a motion to enter executive session to consider qualifications for manager
candidates. Alderman Davis so moved, and Alderman Spencer seconded. The motion
carried unanimously.
Following robust and extensive discussion, the Mayor entertained a motion to
close the executive session at 12:50. Mayor ProTem Mosteller so moved and
Alderman Davis seconded. The motion passed unanimously.
Mayor ProTem Mosteller moved to direct the Mayor and the Interim Manager to
contact the top candidate with an offer of employment. Alderman Allen seconded.
The motion carried unanimously. Alderman Davis moved to adjourn at 12:55. The
motion carried unanimously.
 
MAYOR:____________________Date:________      ATTEST:____________________Date:
_____
      Joe Pat Hatem                     Chris May, Interim Manager
MAY 14, 2020
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING MAY 14, 2020
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor Joseph P. Hatem
            Aldermen Karen Mosteller, Lora Sharkey, Lowe Davis,
            Marc Spencer,   John Allen, Tom Lombardi
STAFF PRESENT:      Chris May, Interim City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director   
   Todd Coring, Police Chief    
   David Fox, Public Works Director
   Tom Stanley, Assistant Public Works Director
   Randy Jones, Tourism Director
   Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
   Lisa Anderson, Videographer
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Hatem called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
A moment of silence was observed for Fire Chief Drew and his family for the
passing of his father, Fire Captain Charles Drew.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Mayor Hatem led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Public Comment
   Mayor Hatem read the following Public Comments into the record:
To the Aldermen of Southport,
It is with serious deep concern that I type this email. I look forward to the
opportunity to join with others who would like to physically be present and
speak on behalf of the concerns of Osprey Landing development planning further
progressing. This meeting being held without residents being able to physically
voice concerns is quite frustrating given we have numerous residents who are
lacking in the social media availability to see or hear the meeting conducted.
My name is Lauren Broadwell, I am a lifelong resident of the Southport-Oak
Island Area a current resident in the Smithville Woods neighborhood. Given the
circumstances an email is required as I personally would prefer to stand before
you and speak to all who hold the decisions of the development of Osprey
Landing and its effects in their hands. I will do my best to keep this email
brief and to the point, many have shared their frustrations and concerns with
me but I would like to specifically take a moment to highlight just a couple of
the many effects that will most certainly be felt should development be allowed
to follow. My family resides at 2007 Robert Ruark Dr., just across the street
from that would POSSIBLY be the Egress/Ingress of Osprey Landing. I was
informed that the DOT conducted their traffic study and an estimated 914
trips...., yes 914 trips would be made up and down this narrow road. My husband
and I have 2 young boys. We along with a large number of our fellow friends and
neighbors bike, walk, run and walk their dogs with us in this same stretch of
road. If 914 trips are being made with trucks, cars etc, this will no longer be
safe to anyone, drivers and pedestrians alike. Southport promotes a small
friendly quiet town, this volume of traffic does not seem to echo that
sentiment. If an estimate of 914 trips will be made daily I shudder to think
what number it would possibly reach, upwards of 1,000? I urge that Bill Clark
homes (the developer) place an entrance off of 211 as I understand they can do.
It is my understanding that this was in the original plan, that the residents’
access via this avenue.
In the event of any emergency for those in that neighborhood, be it hurricane
evacuation or emergency vehicles reaching someone in distress hwy 211 will be a
much more direct route. A direct entrance off hwy 211 seems much more fitting
specifically for the number of people who are expected to access Osprey
Landing, which is expected to be much larger than Smithville Woods, and would
be safer for all who will be traveling these areas. In closing I must question
that if development of Osprey Landing and its Ingress/Egress do connect
directly to Robert Ruark Dr. does this align with the Mission Statement set
forth of Southport and its goal of "controlled" development? I look forward to
the opportunity to speak with you in person and it is my hope that further
development access on Robert Ruark Dr is not permitted until adequate meeting
and awareness is made of what is to come. Given the current status of the town
and following guidance and advisement from our Mayor and governing bodies to
remain at distance and not gather I hope you view the wise decision the
planning board members saw, in line with what Bill Clark previously stated to
use Hwy 211 for their access to their development of property. I look forward
to a proper meeting to address with subject at a later date. Thank you for your
time.
Blessings to each of the Alderman at this difficult time.
Lauren Broadwell
910-367-2863
"Work like you don't need the money, love like you've never been hurt and dance
like nobody's watching."
            ………………………………………..
Good afternoon,
I understand tomorrow night the Southport City Aldermen Committee will hold a
virtual meeting to discuss the future plans of development Osprey Landing.
While I completely understand the meeting being virtual due to the current
global pandemic, it is extremely unfortunate that concerned citizens cannot be
physically present to have our faces seen and voices heard. I sincerely hope
that no major decisions will be finalized at this time due to the uncertain
nature of our country and community.
That being said, I would ask that each of you read and digest the words in this
email. Please read them as if your children and grandchildren live in this
neighborhood.
My husband and I have 2 boys, ages 10 and 7. We were drawn to this neighborhood
for many reasons. It's tranquil nature, well-established estates, safe streets,
and loving neighbors. It's close proximity to the downtown area and waterfront
is only accentuated by the richness added by being able to ride bikes together
as a family to these treasured places. When the weather is nice, I cannot keep
my boys inside! They love playing basketball, climbing trees, walking the dogs,
and especially love riding bikes to the waterfront. We do this almost every
single day. If this development's plans continue as they are at this time, the
daily lives of my family and each of the 160+ residents of Smithville Woods
will change. The traffic study completed by the NC DOT and reviewed by
consulting firm, Kittleson & Associates, predicted 914 daily weekday trips
coming from Osprey Landing. Let that sink in... 914 more trips.
I so appreciate your commitment to advocating for our sweet town, which is
articulated so perfectly in the City of Southport Mission Statement:
“To strive for excellence in our government, project a positive attitude,
involve our community and protect our citizens by ensuring a safe, secure and
tranquil quality of life with controlled and orderly growth.”
The development of Osprey Landing does not feel like controlled and orderly
growth and it certainly does not preserve the safe, secure, and tranquil life
of residents of Smithville Woods. Please advocate for us! Please require Bill
Clark Homes to create a second, full-functioning ingress/egress access to
connect to NC 211 north of Robert Ruark Drive, as suggested by Kittleson &
Associates.
Please see the documents attached to this email. The following Smithville Woods
residents have signed these documents to let you all know they are in
opposition to Osprey Landing, especially the main entrance being located on
Robert Ruark Drive:
Scott & Kate Seigler- 7000 Robert Ruark Drive
Jarlyn P. Gannon- 1015 Captain Adkins Drive
Pat & Jennifer McIntyre- 4008 Robert Ruark Drive
David Morgan- 1006 Pilot Circle
George Gulledge- 3007 Robert Ruark Drive
Gail Ballard- 1060 Robert Ruark Drive
Patti Hitt- 1000 Newton Drive
Joselyn Corzine- 3006 Robert Ruark Drive
Ben P. Richardson- 1006 Newton Drive
Francis Nolan- 1000 Barristers Court
John and Ruby Campbell- 4007 Robert Ruark Drive
Kevin and Jean Turney- 1016 Captain Adkins Drive
Gerald Heller- 1008 Newton Drive
Sandra Huntley- 105 Live Oak Turn
Margaret Dula- 6004 Robert Ruark Drive
David Canady- 7003 Robert Ruark Drive
James and Teresa Kennedy- 1000 Bussells Turn
Donald and Cynthia Sellers- 1009 Captain Adkins Drive
Michael and Susan Barutis- 5011 Robert Ruark Drive
Tom Reedy- 6009 Robert Ruark Drive
David and Maranda Register- 6007 Robert Ruark Drive
James Hules- 6000 Robert Ruark Drive
Craig and Danae Blanks- 5012 Robert Ruark Drive
Linda Pasulka- 1014 Captain Adkins Drive
Brian and Eileen Hennessey- 103 Live Oak Turn
George S. Jones III- 1010 Captain Adkins Drive
Donn and Nancy Eaton- 2006 Pete's Camp Drive
Teresa Lancaster- 2002 Robert Ruark Drive
Stuart Callari- 2000 Robert Ruark Drive
Sharon Helms- 1058 Robert Ruark Drive
Gerald and Debora Mann- 4014 Robert Ruark Drive
Ashley Kincaide- 4000 Robert Ruark Drive
Michelle Noble- 3004 Robert Ruark Drive
James Richard Evans- 3001 Robert Ruark Drive
Penney B. Kronenwetter- 1003 Barristers Court
William Pipkins- 2015 Robert Ruark Drive
Jeremy Truett- 2016 Robert Ruark Drive
We all believe you all will do your due diligence to sustain our current
quality of life.
Thank you!!
Jennifer Lucas
Jennifer Lucas, BSN, RN, NCSN
School Nurse
Southport Elementary School
South Brunswick High School
            ……………………………………………   
My name is Jennifer Skadeland, I live at 1131 N. Atlantic Ave. Unit B in
Southport. I am writing this email with regard to the business, All In Bloom
that is located right across the street from my home. I would like this to be
included in the board meeting that is going to be held tonight, May 14th at 6
P.M. I understand that the meeting is closed to the public due to Covid-19, but
I would still like my voice as a citizen of Southport heard. I'm hoping that
all of you can give myself and my neighbors, some solutions, resolution and/or
guidance with the following issues we are having in our neighborhood.
I have lived at my address for 7 years and have never had issues with any of my
neighbors, until All In Bloom moved in across the street. I do support local
business and was very excited that they were moving in next door. I went over
and introduced myself when they started preparing the lot and let them know how
happy I was that there would finally be something beautiful next door to look
at instead of an empty lot. Once they moved in everything about our peaceful
little neighborhood has changed. It is no longer peaceful and quiet. I can no
longer sleep in or enjoy a few moments of tranquility, whether it's in my home
or on my balcony.
The music starts at 6:30 A.M., every morning, the backpack blowers start at 7:
00 A.M, they are both every day occurrences. Their business hours are 9:00 A.M
Monday thru Saturday and 10:00 A.M on Sunday. I have an app on my phone that
can tell me the name of a song and the artists who sings the song just by
tapping a button. I can use it in my bedroom, bathroom, kitchen and patio and
pick up the music they are blaring from their business generally any time of
the day. This occurs on a daily basis. I have been documenting every day for
the past week what time they start the music, which has been 6:30 A.M.
consistently and the music is on all day long and sometimes goes on for an hour
or more after they close. I have the names of the songs and who sings them
throughout the day as well. I have also documented when the blowers start which
is 7:00 A.M consistently and the blowers last anywhere from half an hour to an
hour on some days, this is also on a daily basis. I have called the Southport
Police department and one officer told me to put a box fan on in my house so I
couldn't hear it. He did ask them eventually to turn it down after I told him
he wasn't addressing my concern. They did not turn it down. He did tell me to
call 911 if I was having an issue with them. I did call 911 on May 12th. Two
officers arrived and went over and spoke with the owner, this was after their
business closed and the music was still blaring. She did turn the music down
initially and when she thought the officers left, she cranked it back up even
louder. The officers went back over and said it was up to them if they were
going to issue her a citation. The officers were Mayner and Jeffrie, reference
# 20-057878. On May 13th I called Police Chief Coring because the music was
once again blaring at 7:00 A.M from their business. I left him a message and he
called me back at 1:43 P.M. he said he would stop over to their business and
talk to them regarding the music, but the music continued.
All in Bloom has a very small parking lot, maybe 15 spaces. They have placed no
parking signs all along the outside of their lot. The customers park all over
my lawn and in my parking lot as well as my neighbor’s lawns and sometimes just
in the street. The traffic is terrible and it's an accident waiting to happen.
The delivery trucks come in sometimes very early in the morning and sit idling
in the street all night. Which means we get no sleep that night. When they do
have deliveries, the trucks are parked on the street usually blocking traffic
and it's almost impassable.
I initially spoke with them asking them to please not use the blowers so early
in the morning because it wakes me every morning to which I was told no. I
asked them to maybe blow the leaves at closing time to which I was told no. I
feel as if I have made attempts to come to an agreement and let them know how I
feel and have come to the conclusion that they don't care about their neighbors
or being good neighbors. I don't know why they feel they can do whatever they
want and I have no rights. I do not feel as if the police have taken my
concerns as a tax paying citizen seriously and they don't want to deal with it.
I don't care that they have music, but I don't want to hear it every minute of
my day in my home. Do they even have a permit to play outside music and what
are the limits and restrictions they have to abide by? Why is their parking lot
so small for such a large business? Where are our rights as citizens who have
lived in this neighborhood peacefully before All In Bloom arrived.
The following are statements from a few of my neighbors. They have given me
permission to include them with my email.
Thomas and Elizabeth Caudill
419 Stuart Ave.
Resident since October 2018
 
Our Concerns regarding All In Bloom
(1) Street parking around this business is becoming a safety issue. Stuart Ave
is not wide enough for parking and two-way traffic at the same time. Drivers
are having difficulty maneuvering the street traffic and the parked cars. An
accident waiting to happen.
(2) The temporary storage unit "PODS" at the back of their lot looks like it is
becoming a permanent structure. This storage unit is very unattractive and
frankly an eye sore.
(3) Why weren't the surrounding neighbors given an opportunity or a hearing
prior to All In Bloom moving their business onto this lot? It appears Southport
City has not.
Kelly Evans
415 Stuart Ave
 
There is loud music coming from All In Bloom that I can hear I my backyard.
This can be a nuisance to the enjoyment of my home. I would appreciate if the
volume of music can be maintained at a reasonable level for the quality of the
residential surrounding neighbors as our Stuart Ave has a HIGH VOLUME of
traffic passing through that creates unruly sound already. Please note that I
do support local businesses in Southport, and I do welcome All In Bloom.
Patricia McMillan
Atlantic Ave Ext
 
To whom it may concern this neighborhood use to be a quiet and peaceful street
but now it's a lot of disturbance, a lot of traffic coming and going. Trucks
coming in early in the morning, they are going to tear up the road and who will
fix it? We don't mind them being here but respect the people who live here. The
music doesn't have to be loud.
Joe Stolz
Southport Siam Thai Bistro (owner)
1131 N. Atlantic Ave Unit C&D
 
I have concerns of parking being taken by All In Blooms customers. Our space is
very limited parking wise; they are for residents and restaurant customers
only.
Tyler Johnson Maria Steenberg
Atlantic Ave Ext.
 
Dear City of Southport,
This letter is to voice our disapproval of the new All In Boom Gardening Center
location. We feel as residents located next door to this business we were not
informed or considered. It seems that the local residents within the proximity
of the business are now second-class citizens and do not matter. We feel that
their business should conduct their business on their property grounds and not
the surrounding area/properties. The high volume of the business has caused
multiple concerns and issues for us which include:
High volume traffic continuously up and down the street with speeding.
Parking of their service and delivery trucks up and down the street (N.
Atlantic Ext) at times making the road unpassable.
Loud music throughout the day which can be heard in multiple rooms throughout
our residence.
The use of leaf blowers and machinery every morning at 7:00 A.M. which makes
for uncomfortable sleeping conditions on our days off.
The arrival of delivery trucks between 2:00 A.M. - 3:00 A.M. also provides
uncomfortable sleeping conditions.
Excessive customer parking on property that is not part of the business which
adds congestion on our side street. N. Atlantic Ext.
As residents of Southport for 25+ years and residents of this address for 10+
years we understand the growth of our community. We also understand that All in
Bloom has a right to run their business but we feel they should operate their
business on their business grounds during business hours and follow noise
ordinances as respect to the nearby homes. We also feel our side street (N.
Atlantic Ext) should not be a parking lot for their customers and service
vehicles or to be an unloading dock for their delivery trucks.
We hope that you consider our issues and concerns and that changes will be made
to address this. Thank You for your time.
The letters above were just a few of my neighbors that I could reach out to
before I realized that the meeting was taking place today. I truly hope that I
get a response from one or all of you regarding the concerns of our
neighborhood and I hope we can come up with some solutions that work for
everyone. Please reach out to me via email or by phone. I also saw a form I
could fill out requesting a meeting with the city council which I will be
taking advantage of as well. I'm hoping that this will be read as a part of the
minutes of the city council meeting since it is closed to the public. I will be
purchasing and putting up no parking signs along our property and parking lot
for the restaurant. I feel as if every day is now the Fourth of July in my
neighborhood due to the noise, parking issues and traffic volume. One day a
year is enough to deal with all of the issues we are having now on a daily
basis. Please consider how it would feel to be constantly listening to your
neighbor’s music inside or outside of your house every day up to 10 hours a
day. How it feels to be woken up every morning by backpack blowers every
morning even though you just want to sleep in a little. I just want to sleep in
every once in a while and to have some peaceful quiet time without hearing
their music.
Sincerely,
A tired and frustrated resident of Southport
Jennifer Skadeland
910-599-6405
jennifer27_68@yahoo.com
E)   Approval of Agenda
   Alderman Allen moved, with a second by Alderman Mosteller, to remove Item 2,
Fire Department Budget, from the Agenda, and add Item F Special Recognition;
Proclamation Recognizing Peace Officers’ Memorial Day and National Police Week
(May 10-16, 2020), and to approve the Agenda as amended. Unanimous vote; motion
carried.
   Alderman Spencer suggested adding a discussion pertaining to COVID-19 and a
plan for moving forward. Mayor Hatem pointed out that the City is adhering to
Phase 1 of the Governor’s Order and a discussion could be held during Board
Comments.
F)   Special Recognition
   Mayor Hatem read the Proclamation Recognizing Peace Officers’ Memorial Day
and National Police Week into the record.
Proclamation
RECOGNIZING PEACE OFFICERS’ MEMORIAL DAY AND NATIONAL POLICE WEEK (May 10-16,
2020)
WHEREAS, the Congress and President of the United States have designated May
15th as Peace Officers' Memorial Day, and the week in which May 15th falls as
National Police Week; and
WHEREAS, the members of the Southport Police Department play an essential role
in safeguarding the rights and freedoms of our community; and
WHEREAS, it is important that all citizens know and understand the duties,
responsibilities, hazards, and sacrifices of their law enforcement agency, and
that members of our law enforcement agency recognize their duty to serve the
people by safeguarding life and property, by protecting them against violence
and disorder, and by protecting the innocent against deception and the weak
against oppression; and
WHEREAS, the men and women of the Southport Police Department unceasingly
provide a vital public service; and
NOW, THEREFORE, I, Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor of the City of Southport do hereby
proclaim that the week of May 10-16, 2020, be recognized as “National Police
Week”. Citizens in the Southport area are encouraged to recognize National
Police Week with appropriate ceremonies and observances in which all people may
join in commemorating law enforcement officers, past and present, who, by their
faithful and loyal devotion to their responsibilities, have rendered a
dedicated service to their communities and, in so doing, have established for
themselves an enviable and enduring reputation for preserving the rights and
security of all citizens.
Further, I call upon all citizens to observe Friday, May 15, 2020, as Peace
Officers' Memorial Day in honor of those law enforcement officers who, through
their courageous deeds, have made the ultimate sacrifice in service to their
community or have become disabled in the performance of duty, and let us
recognize and pay respect to the survivors of our fallen heroes.
 
This the 14 th day of May 2020.          /s/ Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor
                     City of Southport
ATTEST: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
 
   Mayor Hatem recognized National Nurses Week, May 6 th through 12 th .
   “Southport and Dosher Hospital has a tradition of wonderful nurses; too many
to list them all but I would like to mention Nurse/Midwife Mary Liza Murtha,
beloved ER Nurse Julia Daniel, 4 th floor nurses of the Old Hospital Miss
Murray and Miss Campbell and two certified Nurse Anesthetist from Southport
Mrs. Elenore Rogers who is at George Washington University Hospital and Jean
Potter who served on staff at Duke Medical Center. We salute all nurses for
they were taking care of us long before the pandemic and have continued to
serve fearlessly in the health of our Nation and our citizens. We thank them
all as we celebrate their mentor, Florence Nightingale, who is known as the
founder of modern nursing.”   
   Alderman Spencer recognized Nurse Minnie Lee Spencer, his grandmother.
   Mayor Hatem recognized the 2020 Southport Brunswick High School Graduating
Class.
   “These graduates have had a major life interruption that those of us before
them did not have to face. We salute them for their understanding, their
sacrifice for the common good of all and we wish them great success in their
future endeavors. We will be watching Friday their procession through Southport
as they begin their lives next journey.”   
ETHICS STATEMENT:   If any member of the Board knows of any conflict of
interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect to matters on
the agenda, to please so state it at this time.
   No Conflicts stated.
CONSENT AGENDA
   Alderman Sharkey moved, with a second by Alderman Spencer to approve the
Consent Agenda. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
1.   Minutes of April 9, 2020 Regular Meeting; Minutes for February 1, 2020
Retreat – Departmental Reports  – approved
AGENDA
2.   Fire Department Budget; Approval as Presented
   Item removed from Agenda.
3.   Ordinance Establishing a Capital Project Fund: Howe Street Sewer
Replacement Project
Alderman Mosteller moved, with a second by Alderman Lombardi to adopt the
Ordinance Establishing a Capital Project Fund for the Howe Street Sewer
Replacement Project. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING A CAPITAL PROJECT FUND:
Howe St. Sewer Replacement Project
WHEREAS, the City of Southport is committed to repairing the City’s sewer
infrastructure: and
WHEREAS, the City is committed to improving the sewer service in the most
efficient, economical and environmentally appropriate manner practicable: and
WHEREAS, Golden Leaf is providing a disaster recovery grant to fund the
replacement of the compromised sewer infrastructure located under Howe St: and
WHEREAS, a Capital Project Fund is hereby determined to be the most appropriate
manner in which to account for revenues and expenditures associated with the
project.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Southport Board of Aldermen, that
the capital project fund is hereby established and the capital project budget
shall be as follows.
   Revenues
   City of Southport Budget Contribution      $ 158,800.00
   Golden Leaf Grant               $ 900,000.00
   Total Revenue               $ 1,148,550.00
   Expenditures
   Construction Cost               $ 1,008,705.00
   Engineering Design & Administration      $ 139,845.00
   Total Expenditures            $ 1,148,550.00
   4.   The City Manager and Finance Officer are hereby authorized to make any
   Fund or accounting adjustments necessary to establish, implement and
maintain this Capital Project Fund.
   5.   The City Manager and Finance Officer are hereby authorized and
empowered to execute on behalf of the City of Southport all contracts,
agreements, and other documents necessary to administer this ordinance.
Duly Adopted, this 14 day of May 2020.
                     /s/ Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor
Attest:/s// Michele Windham, City Clerk
4.   Planned Unit Development (PUD) Land Use Plan Application, Osprey Landing,
Submitted by Bill Clark Homes
City Planner Lloyd presented an overview of the Land Use Plan for a 196-unit
PUD located off Robert Ruark Drive on 68 acres:
   •   Zoned for PUD in December 2018
   •   Land Use Plan submitted December 2, 2019
   •   Site is in the extra-territorial jurisdiction (ETJ)
   •   PUD can modify setbacks for additional flexibility
   •   Developer proposing 10’ minimum front yard setbacks, 5’ side yard
setbacks, and 10’ rear yard setbacks
   •   Minimum lot width is 50’
   •   3 lot types of varying sizes; Type A – 50’ x 120’; Type B – 52’ x 130’;
Type C – 65’ x 140’
   •   PUD’s are allowed up to 6 dwelling units per acre
   •   Proposed density, 2.88 dwelling per acre
   •   Project will have an amenity center and a pool
   •   10.2 acres of open green space; equivalent to 15%
   •   1,185,000 sq. ft. of tree canopy
   •   After development, there will be 320 oaks, 7 magnolias, 1 sweet fun, and
409 pines
   •   Traffic Impact Analysis approved by NCDOT (Robert Ruark a State road)
   •   Primary entrance off Robert Ruark Drive
   •   Secondary emergency only access on Maple Leaf Drive to comply with Fire
Code
   •   City selected engineering firm reviewed the TIA and included a traffic
diversion analysis of Maple Leaf Drive if it were opened
   •   Planning Board thoroughly reviewed the project for three (3) months
   •   Planning Board recommended that the Board of Aldermen approve the
development plans with the condition that Bill Clark Homes include a secondary
access that extends along their easement all the way to Highway 211
   •   Planning Board recommended amending the individual lot setback
requirements to 10’ in the front yard, 8’ in the side yard, and 15’ in the rear
yard
 
Mr. Lloyd’s complete, detailed project overview and corresponding exhibits,
reports, etc. on file in the Planning Department.
The following representatives of Bill Clark Homes, Paramount Engineering,
Davenport Engineering, and Ward & Smith were in attendance:
   •   Landon Weaver, Bill Clark Homes
   •   Sam Franck, Ward & Smith
   •   Rob Balland, Paramounte Engineering
   •   Mike Nichols, Paramounte Engineering
   •   Robert Gey, Davenport Engineering
Attorney Sam Franck, Landon Weaver and Mike Nichols spoke about the proposed
project, addressed specific requirements, and answered Board questions.
At 8:04 p.m., Alderman Allen moved, with a second by Alderman Mosteller to go
into Closed Session pursuant to N.C.G.S. 143-318.11(a)(3) to consult with the
City attorney. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Open Session resumed at 8:31 p.m. by motion from Alderman Sharkey, with a
second by Alderman Mosteller. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   Alderman Allen asked City Attorney Isenberg to provide the legal options
pertaining to the Land Use Plan submittal.
   Noting that the site was zoned to Planned Unit Development (PUD) in 2018,
City Attorney Isenberg explained that the developer is entitled to approval of
its application if the application and plans meet the criteria in the Unified
Development Ordinance. He pointed out that, under state law and the current
UDO, the Aldermen did not have the authority to require the developer to build
a secondary access outside of their property as was recommended by the Planning
Board.
Alderman Mosteller moved, with a second by Alderman Spencer to approve the Land
Use Plan application as submitted by the applicant.
Discussion
   Pointing out that the UDO was being updated, Alderman Mosteller stated that
the City would not be in a similar situation in the future.
   Alderman Allen stated his dismay that there was no legal basis to require
the applicant to access NC 211 by building a new road outside their
development.
   Alderman Spencer stated his hope that the discussed second access from NC
211 could be installed at a future date.
   Alderman Davis stated her reluctance to vote on the land use plan without
first hearing from the Planning Board, Fire Chief and having the public
present.
   Alderman Lombardi shared his hesitancy, that he would prefer an access to NC
211, and he stated his hope that the revision of the UDO would assure the
situation did not happen again.
   Alderman Mosteller asked that the gated Maple Leaf Drive emergency access be
landscaped to resemble a park setting.
   Vote:   Ayes:   Aldermen Mosteller, Spencer, Sharkey, Allen, Lombardi
      Nay:   Alderman Davis
   Motion carried 5-1 (Entire audio discussion on file in the Clerk’s office.)
   5.   Discussion, Reduce Speeding on Brunswick Street
   City Manager May reported that the Police Department would be installing
speed monitoring devices, would do a study of traffic on Brunswick Street, and
would report those findings to the Board.
   6.   Discussion; Designate Shoulder of Brunswick Street as a No Parking Zone
Alderman Davis shared her observations of a dangerous situation for pedestrians
walking in the street because there is no place for them to get out of the way
of traffic on Brunswick Street.
   Public Works Director Fox pointed out that part of Brunswick Street is a
prescriptive easement and the property along the sides of the street are
privately owned.
   City Planner Lloyd noted that to put in sidewalks, property owners would
have to give the City an easement.
   7.   Discussion; United Development Ordinance (UDO) Text Amendment, Building
Height
   Mayor Hatem emphasized that the process of revising the UDO is ongoing.
Alderman Davis moved, with a second by Alderman Lombardi, to direct the
Planning Board to consider a text amendment for the UDO, Article 11 Table of
Area, Yard, Density and Height, setting a 40-foot height limit for all dry
storage building applications.
Aye:   Aldermen Davis, Lombardi, Allen & Mosteller
Nay:   Aldermen Sharkey & Spencer
Motion Carried 4-2
   8.   Appointment(s) to ABC Board
   Alderman Spencer moved, with a second by Alderman Mosteller to appoint Ms.
Angela Wadsworth to the ABC Board. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Committee Reports
   Alderman Mosteller announced that the Southport Parks & Recreation
Department was recognized by the Lorenzo Clemmons Outreach for joint
participation in a summer camp with the Brunswick County Tennis Association.
The camp was named the North Carolina National Junior Tennis & Learning 2019
Project of the Year.
   Alderman Mosteller reported that the North Carolina University System has
chosen Lowe-White Park and Waterfront Park to be Eco-Explorer Hot Spots and the
parks will be participating in a statewide program promoting outdoor learning
and science.
   Alderman Lombardi announced that the Lifeboat project undertaken by the
Beautification Committee had been completed and the boat has been located at
the W. Bay Street & Caswell Avenue intersection.
   Alderman Davis reported that applications have been received for appointment
to the Forestry Committee, it is hoped interviews can take place soon, and
recommendations for appointments can be made at the Board’s June regular
meeting.
   Noting that historically a tree does not last long planted at the Whittler’s
Bench, Alderman Davis reported that the Forestry Committee would be planting a
White Cedar in the Fall. Alderman Spencer speculated if some other item than a
tree should be placed at the location.
   Alderman Spencer noted that a 4th of July Committee teleconference meeting
was held.
   Alderman Spencer spoke about moving forward after the COVID-19 pandemic and
a time frame for safely re-opening City facilities.
Manager’s Report
   City Manager May announced that Mr. Gordon Hargrove had accepted the
position of City Manager and will assume the duties June 11, 2020.
   City Manager May reported that a proposal was received from Brunswick County
for sewer service and the City’s engineering firm was reviewing it. He added
that a meeting with the principals involved would be held to review the
proposal.
   City Manager May reported that a Preliminary FY 2020-2021 Budget had been
completed and presented to the Board. He suggested recessing the meeting and
reconvening Thursday, May 21st to hold a Budget Workshop.
   Alderman Sharkey emphasized including the Parks & Recreation Director in all
correspondence pertaining to the City Dock Project.   
Staff Reports – provided in Agenda packet
Mayor’s Comments
   Mayor Hatem spoke about the 18th Century Smallpox outbreak, that May 14 is
the anniversary of the Smallpox vaccine discovery in 1796 and the hope for the
same for COVID-19.
   Mayor Hatem stated that he and staff are in contact with Hazen & Sawyer
Engineering relating to wastewater treatment.
   Mayor Hatem reported that the State Historic Preservation Office (SHPO) has
approved the Weather Tower project and the engineer is preparing drawings which
will go to the Parks & Recreation Advisory Board for a recommendation to the
Board of Aldermen.
   Mayor Hatem spoke about Phase II of the Governor’s orders for re-opening
North Carolina for business. He cautioned that the COVID-19 virus was still a
threat.
   Mayor Hatem announced that June 2, 2020 is the 90th Anniversary for J.
Arthur Dosher Memorial Hospital.      
Board Comments
Alderman Spencer expressed concerns about the State of Emergency and asked that
there be further discussions regarding the plans moving forward. He spoke about
the cancelling of events until Labor Day and the possibilities for small scale
hometown events. He asked the Mayor to share guidelines and specifics with the
public during his weekly Facebook videos.
 
Tourism Director Jones responded to a query by Alderman Spencer as to the
status of an economic development study by Electricities which had been placed
on hold due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
 
Alderman Sharkey stated her hope that the citizens would understand the vote
for the Osprey Landing Land Use Plan.
 
Alderman Sharkey encouraged participation in the 2020 Census.
 
Alderman Davis commended Police Officer Stokes who responded to a 911 call
about people on the old damaged city dock.
 
Alderman Davis stated that she had received calls pertaining to the N. Howe
Street sidewalk project.
 
Alderman Mosteller reported that June 1 is the deadline for submittal to the
statewide Homestead Act property tax relief program that provides for a 50%
reduction in property taxes for those 65 years or older, owns their home, is a
permanent resident, and with an income not over $31,000. She stated that Deputy
City Clerk Tanya Shannon would be available to assist in the application
process.
RECESS
   Alderman Allen moved, with a second by Alderman Mosteller to recess the May
14, 2020 regular Board meeting to Thursday, May 21, 2020 at 9:00 a.m.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Recessed Session Meeting
May 21, 2020, 9:00 a.m.
   Due to unexpected absences, Mayor Hatem further recessed the meeting until
May 29, 2020, 9:00 a.m. and directed that proper notice be given.
 
                        /s/ Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor
 
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
JUNE 1, 2020   
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING JUNE 1, 2020
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor Joseph P. Hatem
            Aldermen Karen Mosteller, Lora Sharkey, Lowe Davis, Marc Spencer,
John Allen, Tom Lombardi
STAFF PRESENT:      Chris May, Interim City Manager
   Michele Windham, City Clerk
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director   
   David Fox, Public Works Director   
   Tom Stanley, Assistant Public Works Director
   Fire Chief, Charles Drew    
A)   Call to Order – 4:00 p.m.
Mayor Hatem called the special meeting to order at 4:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
A moment of silence was observed for those ill with the COVID-19 virus.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Mayor Hatem led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Approval of Agenda
   Alderman Sharkey moved, with a second by Alderman Mosteller to approve the
Agenda. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
ETHICS STATEMENT:   If any member of the Board knows of any conflict of
interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect to matters on
the agenda, to please so state it at this time.
AGENDA
1.   Review and Approval of Proposed Capital Project Ordinance to Disperse
NCDOT Proceeds to BEMC as agreed
   Finance Director Trexler explained that the City had entered into an
agreement with the North Carolina Department of Transportation (NCDOT)
regarding utility relocation during the NC 211 expansion, in the amount of
$2.4M. Per the agreement, NCDOT would reimburse the City for charges incurred
by Brunswick Electric Membership Corp (BEMC) for relocation of the electric
lines. She reported that BEMC had submitted invoices for payment, NCDOT had
paid the City, and a Capital Project Fund needs to be adopted by the Board for
revenues and expenditures associated with the project.
   Alderman Sharkey moved, with a second by Alderman Lombardi to establish a
Capital Project Fund for the NCDOT Route 211 Utility Relocation Project.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
[Image]
ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING A CAPITAL PROJECT FUND:
NCDOT Improvement Program
Utility Relocation Agreement 41582.2.2
WHEREAS, the City of Southport is committed to improving Highway 211 access
into the City of Southport: and
WHEREAS, the City is committed to improving underground infrastructure of its
electrical utilities along the project route: and
WHEREAS, The State will provide reimbursements to the city for all the non-
betterment cost in the project: and
WHEREAS, a Capital Project Fund is hereby determined to be the most appropriate
manner in which to account for revenues and expenditures associated with the
project.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Southport Board of Aldermen, that
the capital project budget shall be as follows.
      Revenues
      City of Southport Budget Contribution      $ 76,309.73
      State Reimbursements            $ 2,410,417.81
      Total Revenue               $ 2,486,727.54
      Expenditures
      Construction Cost (BEMC)            $ 2,486,727.54
 
   The City Manager and Finance Officer are hereby authorized to make any Fund
or accounting adjustments necessary to establish, implement and maintain this
   Capital Project Fund.
   The City Manager and Finance Officer are hereby authorized and empowered to
execute on behalf of the City of Southport all contracts, agreements, and other
documents necessary to administer this ordinance.
      
Duly Adopted, this 1st day of June 2020.
                        /s/ Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor
                           
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
2.   Continued Discussions on FY 2020-2021 Operating Budget
   Finance Director Trexler presented revised Community Building proposed FY
2020/2021 Operating Budget pages to the Board. She reported that $13,110 for
group health insurance had been incorrectly posted to the department and those
funds needed to be specifically allocated by the Board. Additionally, Director
Trexler asked the Board if they wanted to roll over unused 2019/2020
appropriations for the Forestry Committee and the Neighbors to Neighbors
Program to the FY 2020/2021 Budget.
   The Board considered revising the current pay plan to include incremental
steps of 2-1/2% each in all grades and a 5% increase between grades. City
Manager May shared his experience developing Step Pay Plan systems and he
recommended adding steps to the current Southport Pay Plan.
   The Board discussed the amount of funding for the Neighbors-to-Neighbors
program. Board consensus to roll over $6,000 from FY 2019/2020 Operating Budget
to FY 2020/2021 Operating Budget and add $4,000 to start FY 2020/2021 with a
total of $10,000 for that program.
   Alderman Spencer suggested allocating $7,000 in the Board Supplies line item
and $2,000 in the Board Travel line item.
   Alderman Allen expressed his concern that the budget did not have enough
designated maintenance funds for the many City buildings. He suggested re-
examining the budget in three (3) months to determined if there is any money to
address deferred maintenance costs.
   Alderman Davis moved, with a second by Alderman Spencer to defer salary
increases proposed in the FY 2020/2021 Operating Budget until November 2020 or
such time that incoming City Manager Hargrove can present a salary study to the
Board. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
ADJOURN
   Alderman Mosteller moved, with a second by Alderman Lombardi to adjourn the
special meeting at 4:57 p.m.
                        /s/ Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor
                           
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
JUNE 11, 2020
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING JUNE 11, 2020
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor Joseph P. Hatem
            Aldermen Karen Mosteller, Lora Sharkey, Lowe Davis,
            Marc Spencer,   John Allen, Tom Lombardi
STAFF PRESENT:      Gordon Hargrove, City Manager
            Michele Windham, City Clerk
            Tanya Shannon, Deputy City Clerk
            Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
            Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
            David Fox, Public Services Director
            Tom Stanley, Asst. Public Services Director
            Ellie Pittenger, Electrical Superintendent
            Todd Coring, Police Chief
            Charles Drew, Fire Chief
            Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
            Thomas Lloyd, Planner
            Randy Jones, Tourism Director               
            Lisa Anderson, Videographer
            Kate Marshall, Animal Protectives Services/Code Enforcement Officer
A)   Call to Order – 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Hatem called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Pastor Brian Monroe, First Baptist Church of Southport, gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Mayor Hatem led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Public Comment
   Mr. Bob Tolle, 2136 Maple Leaf Drive stated the following:
“On behalf of the HOA’s of both Southport Way and The Ridge
We are appealing to your common sense, and request that you do what needs to be
done to correct what should never have been in the first place.
What we are referring to is the Right of Way on the grassy and berm area at the
end of Maple Leaf Dr.
Just to be clear, this piece of property is approximately 50 feet wide and 150
feet long, located between a townhome in The Ridge and a single-family home in
Southport Way, where Maple Leaf Dr. dead ends.
It is somewhat obvious the original developer intended for this to have been a
continuation of the road at some point for whatever reason, but it never
happened, so was there a Right of Way? It may have been the original
developer’s plan, but it has never been the desire of the residents of The
Ridge or Southport Way.
The residents of our two communities have used this property for years as a
common area, for socializing, dog walking and parking, since we have no on
street parking. We even made it clear several years ago that we were not even
interested in having a pathway through the property for security reasons.
The streets within Southport Way were turned over to the City in June of 2014,
but not until the HOA had to make improvements to bring them up to city
standards, for which money had to be borrowed to make the improvements. It’s
obvious that if the roads had not been paved, the City would not have approved
it. So, where this perceived Right of Way is, has never been paved, nor are
there curbs. So, it would seem apparent there would be no reason for a Right of
Way, since there is no road.
So, the question is; Why does the City have a Right Away here? It was not a
developed road by the original or second developer, nor when the City took over
the roads in 2014.
This Right of Way has no benefit to the residents and it’s hard to see a
benefit for the City.
So, we are requesting the City do the right thing and remove this Right of
Way.”
 
   Mr. Charlie Hess, 4459 Willow Moss Way, echoed Mr. Tolle’s comments and
spoke in opposition to the Osprey Landing subdivision. He shared his
disappointment that the development had been approved by the Aldermen and he
stated his safety concerns for the elderly residents of neighboring
communities.
   Mr. Jim Lightbourne, 316 W. West Street, indicated that he had heard a rumor
that Southport Marina was seeking a CAMA permit to install boat lifts in the
Yacht Basin marsh area. He questioned if the City was aware of the CAMA permit,
if the City has been in discussions with the Marina, what the CAMA permit
approval process was, if the City has input into the CAMA permit process and
does the CAMA permit process include comments from the public?
   City Clerk Windham read the following public comment into the record:
Mayor Hatem and aldermen, just a few questions concerning your 5-1 vote in
favor of the Osprey Landing development. I've been informed that, because
Osprey Landing is not located within the city limits, in order to connect to
the city's sewer and water system they need to request the city to annex the
new development. Why didn't you use this information when dealing with the
developers??
If this information is correct than you (we) still have an opportunity to
require a downsizing of Osprey Landing. You as a board can inform the
developers that they must downsize before any annex.
My second question is, who made the decision to allow five Bill Clark
representatives into a meeting that was closed to the citizens of Southport??
If your answer is that you closed the meeting because of a health risk, then
why did you allow them to go without protective masks. Poor excuse!
Last comment and question. Alderman Allen, Aldermen Davis, one other aldermen
and Mayor Hatem came to the Southport Way HOA during their campaign and
promised us that you understood that we did not want anything to do with Osprey
landing. You further stated that you would vote to disapprove the development.
Then all of you with the exception of Aldermen Davis turned your back on us,
your planning board and all the citizens of Southport who researched and
reported the negative aspects of your decision.
I viewed the online meeting and heard nothing concerning a master plan, dog
park or a review of who actually owns the property at the end of Maple Leaf dr.
Again, Thank You for attempting to do your share. I know it’s not an easy task.
RESPECTFULLY Jerry Day
E)   Approval of Agenda      
   Alderman Lombardi moved, with a second by Alderman Mosteller to approve the
Agenda. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
F)   Special Recognition
   Juneteenth Proclamation
   Mayor Hatem read the proclamation into the record.
CITY OF SOUTHPORT PROCLAMATION
WHEREAS, President Abraham Lincoln signed the Emancipation Proclamation on
January 1, 1863, formally abolishing slavery in the United States of America;
and
WHEREAS, word about the signing of the Emancipation Proclamation was delayed
some two- and one-half years, to June 19, 1865, in reaching authorities and
African Americans in the South and Southwestern United States; and
WHEREAS, Emancipation Day observations are held on different days in different
states in the South and Southwest, and in other parts of the nation; and
WHEREAS, June 19th has a special meaning to African Americans, and is called
"JUNETEENTH" combining the words June and Nineteenth, and has been celebrated
by the African American community for over 150 years; and
NOW, THEREFORE, I, Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor together with the Board of Aldermen
of the City of Southport, North Carolina, do hereby declare June 19, 2020, as
JUNETEENTH
in the City of Southport, North Carolina, and urge all citizens to become more
aware of the significance of this celebration in African American History and
in the heritage of our nation and City.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, we have hereunto set our hand and caused the seal of the
City of Southport, North Carolina to be affixed this 11th day of June 2020.
         
                     /s/ Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor
 
/s/ Karen Mosteller, Mayor Pro Tem          /s/ Lora Sharkey, Alderman
/s/ Lowe Davis, Alderman             /s/ Marc Spencer, Alderman
/s/ Thomas Lombardi, Alderman            /s/ John Allen, Alderman
 
Dosher Memorial Hospital 90 th Anniversary
CITY OF SOUTHPORTPROCLAMATION
WHEREAS, Dosher Memorial Hospital began serving the Southport community as
Brunswick County Hospital on June 2, 1930; and
WHEREAS, Dosher Memorial Hospital is a full accredited, comprehensive
healthcare facility providing diagnosis, treatment, acute care, skilled care,
wellness and education in hospital, outpatient, and community settings; and
WHEREAS, Dosher Memorial Hospital’s mission is to improve the health and well-
being of the entire community; and
WHEREAS, Dosher Memorial Hospital serves more than 13,000 outpatient visits
each year; and
WHEREAS, Dosher Memorial Hospital employs more than 300 North Carolinians in
high quality, professional jobs; and
WHEREAS, Dosher Memorial Hospital is the only critical access hospital in North
Carolina that is owned by a township, Smithville Township, and to support their
beloved hospital, voted for a Hospital Tax, in the 1970s and most recently in
2000; and
WHEREAS, Dosher Memorial Hospital will celebrate its 90th Anniversary on June
2, 2020.
NOW, THEREFORE, I, Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor together with the Board of Aldermen
of the City of Southport, North Carolina, do hereby proclaim June 2, 2020, as
DOSHER MEMORIAL HOSPITAL
90TH ANNIVERSARY DAY
in the City of Southport, North Carolina, and encourage all citizens to join me
in this worthy observance.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, we have hereunto set our hand and caused the seal of the
City of Southport, North Carolina to be affixed this 11th day of June 2020.
         
                    /s/ Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor
 
/s/ Karen Mosteller, May Pro Tem             /s/ Lora Sharkey, Alderman   
/s/ Lowe Davis, Alderman               /s/ John Allen, Alderman
/s/ Marc Spencer, Alderman                /s/ Thomas Lombardi, Alderman
 
   Recognition of Interim City Manager Chris May 
   Noting that Mr. May was absent due to unforeseen circumstances, Mayor Hatem
reported that recognition of Mr. May would be held at a future date.
 
ETHICS STATEMENT:   If any member of the Board knows of any conflict of
interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect to matters on
the agenda, to please so state it at this time.
    No Conflicts stated
 
CONSENT AGENDA
   Correction to the Special Work Session – Manager Interviews Minutes was
noted.
Alderman Lowe corrected to Alderman Davis   
   Alderman Sharkey moved, with a second by Alderman Spencer to approve the
Consent Agenda as amended. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
1.   Approval of Minutes for Special Work Session – Manager Interviews May 6 &
May 8, 2020; Approval of Minutes for May 14, 2020 Regular Meeting - approved
2.   Cape Fear Council of Governments Service Agreement Term Extension -
approved
3.   Resolution Appointing Gordon Hargrove as Southport City Manager – approved
 
RESOLUTION APPOINTING GORDON HARGROVE AS SOUTHPORT CITY MANAGER
WHEREAS, the City of Southport has a Council-Manager form of government; and
WHEREAS, the City of Southport has publicly advertised this position; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen have evaluated 20 applicants; and
WHEREAS, the Board has chosen one application based on his qualifications and
local government experience.
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Mr. Gordon Hargrove is appointed the City
Manager of Southport, NC effective June 11, 2020, and that the Employment
Agreement between the City and Mr. Hargrove is hereby approved.
                        /s/ Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, Clerk
AGENDA
4.   Public Hearing: FY 2020-2021 Operating Budget
Alderman Mosteller moved, with a second by Alderman Lombardi to Open Public
Hearing. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
No comments from the public.
Alderman Lombardi moved, with a second by Alderman Sharkey to close Public
Hearing. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   City Manager Hargrove read the Budget Message, as prepared by Interim City
Manager May, into the record.
 
City of Southport
Budget Message FY 20-21
 
The past fiscal year may best be characterized as a year of change; a new
Mayor, three new Aldermen, and a new City Manager. By mid-year, the economy was
robust, unemployment lowest in over 50 years, and the future was bright! One
month later came the worst pandemic since the 1917 Spanish Flu outbreak. The
economy sputtered to a stop with the world being shutdown to “stay home”
sequestered away from the virus. While our businesses languished, Southport
City Government was ramped up to protect our citizens and keep the spread of
the virus at bay. However, life as we had known it changed overnight to the new
normal; masks, gloves, hand sanitizer, take-out food only, social distancing,
no groups over 10. The impact felt world-wide resulted in economic collapse
felt immediately here locally with reduced retail sales and sales tax revenues.
The future suddenly became uncertain.
 
We are now two months into the pandemic and are beginning to slowly phase back
into a more relaxed but still restrained economy. As we tally the costs, we are
pleased to report that we may be over the worst of it and remain hopeful for a
stronger third quarter followed by a recovery by January 2021, The local
government experts agree and our numbers reflect the collective thought of the
NC League of Municipalities, the UNC School of Government, the NC Local
Government Commission, as well as our local government colleagues. No one has a
crystal ball, but we can with certainty predict growth on the horizon.
Thankfully, our reductions were not near as dire as initially thought. That
said, we are solvent, secure, and confident with prudent fiscal conservatism,
the budget presented for FY 20-21 is balanced with appropriations for
necessities, no lost positions, and service levels at or above last year.
 
As we summarize the Budget Ordinance, it is important to understand the process
that got us here. Melanie Trexler, CPA - Finance Director and her staff have
been working on this budget since the first of the year. In February they began
compiling year to date balances and projecting March through June estimates. At
the same time the Department Heads were given worksheets to use in calculating
what they needed for the upcoming Fiscal Year. Those estimates where turned in
to Finance in late March so Finance could prepare draft budget numbers to
review with each Department Head during April. By the end of April, I had the
Department numbers and Finance recommendations to review for the final
revisions leading to the balanced budget given to the Aldermen at their May
meeting.
 
The proposed Budget is 5.4% less than last FY. We propose no new positions,
modest increases in salaries of a one percent cost of living and the
possibility of up to two percent merit based on employee evaluations. We are
recommending no tax increase with the rate remaining 29.56 per $100.00 of tax
value. The General Fund is $7,946,120 which is 4.0% below last year. The Water
and Sewer Fund is $3,754,002 which is (8%) below last year. The W/S Capital
Reserve account is set at $300,000 for Water and $80,000 for sewer. The
Electric Fund is projected at $6,856,231 which represents a decrease of (13.9%)
below last year. Three capital projects funds added this year, Howe St. Sewer
Replacement Project funded by Golden Leaf and W/S funds of $1,148,550, NCDOT
Improvement Program / Utility Relocation Agreement 41582.2.2 funded by NCDOT
reimbursements and the Electric fund for $2,486,727.54, Taylor Field Part F
Grant of $842,448 funded by grant and donated property. The grand total for all
funds is $23,414,078.54, which represents an increase of 13% over last year.
 
Each Department Head provided explanations and defense for their budgets by
line item. That sheet in your budget package follows each Departmental page as
the next tab. The explanations are detailed, sufficient to understand what they
are asking for, and will have some inserts from me and Finance in red where
there is a difference which may occasionally need to be addressed by the BOA.
 
I am optimistic that next year will see a return to previous levels as we
slowly come out of this pandemic. FY 19/20 was a challenging and historic time.
As always, the citizens, the Staff, and the leadership of Southport have
answered the challenge with determination, faith, and optimism. Better times
are coming.
 
Respectfully submitted
 
Chris May
Chris May,
Interim City Manager
   Alderman Mosteller pointed out that proposed salary adjustments would be
considered after a salary study had been completed by Mr. May and presented to
the Board in July.
Alderman Spencer moved, with a second by Alderman Sharkey to approve the FY
2020-2021 Operating Budget. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
[Image]  
BUDGET ORDINANCE - FISCAL YEAR 2020-2021
CITY OF SOUTHPORT
BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, that, following a duly advertised public hearing, the following
annual budget ordinance is adopted to estimate revenues and make appropriations
for the financial operations of the City of Southport for the fiscal year
beginning July 1, 2020, and ending June 30, 2020.
SECTION I. GENERAL FUND
Anticipated Revenues. The following revenues are estimated to be available in
the General Fund for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2020, and ending June
30, 2021:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2149_5595x6951.jpg]
         [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/IMAGES/0-0-0-2152_5595x9789.jpg]
Expenditures. The following amounts are hereby appropriated in the General Fund
for the expenses of the city government and its activities for the fiscal year
beginning July 1, 2020, and ending June 30, 2021:
 
             [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/IMAGES/0-0-0-2155_5595x9789.jpg]
SECTION II. ELECTRIC FUND
 
Anticipated Revenues. The following revenues are estimated to be available in
the Electric Fund for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2020, and ending June
30, 2021:
 
Electricity Sales                                 6,375,000
Utility Sales Taxes                            446,250
Service Charges                         30,518
Other Revenues                                  4,463
 
Total Revenues                        $ 6,856,231
 
Expenditures. The following amounts are hereby appropriated in the Electric
Fund for expenses for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2020, and ending June
30, 2021:
 
Total Expenditures                     $ 6,856,231
 
SECTION III. WATER AND SEWER FUND
 
Anticipated Revenues. The following revenues are estimated to be available in
the Water and Sewer Fund for the fiscal year beginning:
 
Water                         $ 1,268,555      
Sewer Sales                                  2,023,298
Water/Sewer Tap Fees                      18,900
State Grant                            29,250
Service Charges                         13,125
Interest Income                                     1,050
Miscellaneous Revenues                      6,825
Neighbor4Neighbors Donations                      3,000
Transfer From General Fund                   10,000
Transfer System Development Fund                        380,000
 
Total Revenues                        $ 3,754,002
 
Expenditures. The following amounts are hereby appropriated in the Water and
Sewer Fund for expenses for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2020, and ending
June 30, 2021:
         
Total Expenditures                     $ 3,754,002
 
SECTION IV. SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT FEE FUND
 
A. Anticipated Revenues. The following amounts are estimated to be available in
the System Development Capital Reserve Fund for the fiscal year beginning July
1, 2020, and ending June 30, 2021:
Sewer Development Fees                   $ 300,000
Water Development Fees                       80,000
                            $ 380,000
B. Expenditures. The following amounts are hereby appropriated in the System
Development Capital Reserve Fund for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2020 and
ending June 30, 2021.
 
Transfer to Water and Sewer Fund                $ 380,000
 
SECTION V. CAPITAL PROJECT FUND HOWE ST. SEWER REPLACEMENT PROJECT
 
A. Anticipated Revenues. The following amounts are estimated to be available in
the Capital Project Fund Howe St. Sewer Replacement Project for the fiscal year
beginning July 1, 2020, and ending June 30, 2021:
      Revenues
         City of Southport Contribution           $158,800
         Golden Leaf Grant                  900,000
                                   $1,148,550
B. Expenditures. The following amounts are hereby appropriated in the Capital
Project Fund Howe St. Sewer Replacement Project for the fiscal year beginning
July 1, 2020 and ending June 30, 2021.
 
      Expenditures
         Construction Cost               $1,008,705
         Engineering & Design                    139,845 
                              $1,148,550
 
SECTION VI. CAPITAL PROJECT FUND NCDOT UTILITY RELOCATION AGREEMENT 415825.2.2
 
Anticipated Revenues. The following amounts are estimated to be available in
the Capital Project Fund NCDOT Improvement Program / Utility Relocation
Agreement 41582.2.2 for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2020, and ending June
30, 2021:
 
Revenues
   City of Southport Contributions       $ 76,309.73
   NCDOT Reimbursements                2,410,417.81
                            $2,486,727.54
 
Expenditures. The following amounts are hereby appropriated in the Capital
Project Fund NCDOT Improvement Program / Utility Relocation Agreement 41582.2.2
for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2020 and ending June 30, 2021.
 
Construction Cost               $2,86,727.54
 
SECTION VIII. CAPITAL PROJECT FUND TAYLOR FIELD PART F GRANT Phase 1
 
Anticipated Revenues. The following amounts are estimated to be available in
the Capital Project Fund Taylor Field Part F Grant for the fiscal year
beginning July 1, 2020, and ending June 30, 2021:
 
Revenues
   City of Southport Match            $ 421,224
   Part F Grant          $ 421,224
    Total Revenues            $ 842,448
 
Anticipated expenditures. The following amounts are hereby appropriated in the
Capital Project Fund Taylor Field Part F Grant for the fiscal year beginning
July 1, 2020 and ending June 30, 2021.
 
Construction Cost             $ 842,448
 
SECTION IX. TAX RATE
 
There is hereby levied, for fiscal year 2020-2021, a tax at the rate of $0.2956
on each one hundred dollars ($100) of assessed valuation of property located
within the City of Southport for the purpose of raising revenue in the General
Fund. The assessed value of property is $917,971,341.
SECTION X. BUDGET OFFICER AUTHORITY
 
The city manager (budget officer) is hereby authorized to transfer
appropriations within a fund and between funds under the following terms:
 
He may transfer amounts between appropriations within the same fund, provided
that a report of such transfers shall be made no later than the next regular
financial report to the Board of Aldermen.
He may authorize temporary transfers of cash among funds as necessary to meet
cash flow needs.
 
All other transfers of funds between appropriations or budget funds shall be
accomplished by Board amendment of this ordinance.
 
SECTION XI. BUDGET IMPLEMENTATION
 
This ordinance and the supporting budget document shall be the basis of the
financial plan for the City of Southport municipal government for the 2020-2021
fiscal year. The budget officer shall administer the budget and shall insure
the finance officer and department heads of the city are provided with
sufficient guidance to properly implement this plan. Copies of the budget
ordinance shall be furnished to the city manager and the finance officer for
their use and direction in the disbursement of funds and to the city clerk for
the official records of the city.
 
SECTION XII. ADOPTION
This ordinance has been adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular
session on June 11, 2020, upon the motion of Alderman Spencer and the second of
Alderman Sharkey, with a vote of _6__ ayes and  0_ noes, and shall be effective
July 1, 2020.
                        /s/ Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
5.   Presentation of DRAFT Unified Development Ordinance
City Planner Lloyd presented a copy of the proposed revised Unified Development
Ordinance (UDO) to each Board member. He indicated that the draft would be
posted on-line, and an e-mail would be established for citizens to post their
concerns and questions. He added that a joint Board of Aldermen/Planning Board
meeting would be scheduled. Planner Lloyd introduced Mr. Wes MacLeod with the
Cape Fear Council of Governments, who has been working with the Planning Board
and staff on the UDO update.
Mr. MacLeod addressed the Board and spoke about the process. He highlighted
some of the revisions:
The process has been on-going since July 2018
Over a dozen meetings held
A comprehensive audit was performed, reduction in overall text and
clarification of many ambiguous, conflicting, and unclear provisions
Document reduced from 27 Articles to 8 Articles
Consolidation of approval procedures, roles, responsibilities, and
administrative items into one article
Clarification of development approval processes and responsibilities for major/
minor site plans, major/minor subdivisions, exempt/final plats, and planned
unit developments
Conditional Zoning procedure included
Building design standards for CBD and BD zoning district included
Off-street parking requirements reduced and simplified
Tree canopy standards updated
Modification of sign requirements
All legislative updates included
Established roles and responsibilities for the UDO Administrator
 
Responding to a query from Alderman Sharkey, Mr. MacLeod explained that the
bonding or financial guarantees for the installation of required infrastructure
was removed. Developers will have to have all improvements finished, inspected,
and certified prior to final plat approval.
 
Board members stated appreciation to all those involved in the UDO update.
 
6.   Annexation; Resolution Directing the Clerk to Investigate A Petition
Received Under G.S. 160A-31
Planner Lloyd reported that residents of Bonnet Way located off Robert Ruark
Drive had requested annexation into the City. He stated that the property is
7.681 acres, 32 townhomes, all 32 property owners have signed the voluntary
annexation petition, and the area has Southport water and sewer services. Mr.
Lloyd explained that the first step in the annexation process is to recognize
the receipt of the petition and to request the City Clerk to verify the
sufficiency of the petition.
Alderman Lombardi moved, with a second by Alderman Mosteller to adopt the
Resolution Directing the Clerk to Investigate a Petition Received Under G.S.
160A-31.
Discussion
   Responding to queries by Alderman Mosteller and Davis, City Attorney
Isenberg stated that the road, Forest Oaks Drive, would remain privately
maintained and, if requested for acceptance by the City, would have to be
brought up to City and NCDOT standards.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
RESOLUTION DIRECTING THE CLERK TO INVESTIGATE A PETITION RECEIVED UNDER G.S.
160A-31
    WHEREAS, a petition requesting annexation of an area described in said
petition was received on June 2, 2020 by the Board of Aldermen; and
    WHEREAS, G.S. 160A-31 provides that the sufficiency of the petition shall
be investigated by the City Clerk before further annexation proceedings may
take place; and
    WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport deems it advisable
to proceed in response to this request for annexation.
    NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport that:
The City Clerk is hereby directed to investigate the sufficiency of the above
described petition and to certify as soon as possible to the Board of Aldermen
the result of her investigation.
                        /s/ Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor
7.   Discussion; Amending Southport Code of Ordinance Article #19 Load
Management
Electrical Superintendent Pittenger presented a proposed amendment to Article
19 of the Code of Ordinances relating to Load Management. He spoke about
participation by residents in the Load Management program, the cost of the peak
load hour, the savings to customers and the City, and expanding participation
in the program by mandating installation of Load Management switches on all new
electric service accounts. He pointed out that Load Management switches are
mandated on all new construction.
Alderman Davis stated she had received comments from residents objecting to
Load Management switches because the savings was minimal, and they did not want
to get hot. Mr. Pittenger stated that a customer could get up to $176 in
savings with full participation in the program. Noting that she does not notice
her house getting hot, Alderman Mosteller shared her experiences with full load
management.
Alderman Allen suggested adding hot water heaters to the proposed amendment.
Alderman Sharkey moved, with a second by Alderman Mosteller to Amend Section
19-186 of the Code of Ordinances by adding subsection (c) thereto as presented
in the agenda with the addition of electric water heaters to said subsection.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
(c)   Property owners, when making application for electrical service to an
existing residential property, shall permit installation of load management
switches if not already installed and functioning on all compressor and heat
strip circuits, on all standard two hundred forty volt (240V) electric heat
pumps or HFAC units (“Mini-split” heat pump units and geothermal systems are
exempt) and on all electric water heaters forty (40) gallons or larger provided
they are no more than nine (9) kilowatts before an electrical service account
will be granted.
8.   Reappointment to Bald Head Island Transportation Authority (BHITA)
Alderman Davis stated her opinion that the appointment to BHITA should be
advertised and made available to the public.
Voicing support for and noting that Mr. Powell has had a long affiliation with
Bald Head Island, Alderman Spencer moved, with a second by Alderman Sharkey to
reappoint Mr. Powell to the Bald Head Island Transportation Authority for a
three-year term.
VOTE
Aye:   Aldermen Spencer, Sharkey, Mosteller, Allen, Lombardi
Nay:   Alderman Davis
Motion carried 5-1
9.   Appointment(s) to Forestry Committee
Alderman Davis reported that interviews had been held for appointments to the
Forestry Committee and the Committee has requested addition of an alternate
position.
Alderman Davis moved, with a second by Alderman Mosteller to reappoint Mr.
Scott Len and Mr. Fred Fiss, to appoint Ms. Roxie Smith and Marianne Huntley to
vacant positions, and to appoint Ms. Judy Ferris as an alternate. Unanimous
vote; motion carried.
10.   Discussion; State of Emergency
Alderman Spencer asked his fellow Aldermen to share their opinions on the
continuance of a State of Emergency, i.e. the pros/cons, duration, plans for
moving forward, what to advise the public.
Alderman Lombardi pointed out that many tourists are coming into the City, are
not wearing facial covering, and are holding hands and hugging. He stated his
opinion that the businesses should require customers to wear facial covering.
He stated support for continuation of the State of Emergency.
Responding to Alderman Davis, Mayor Hatem acknowledged that Dosher Hospital is
seeing patients with COVID-19. She expressed her impression that people do not
believe the pandemic is real until it affects someone they know. She shared her
experiences suffering with polio.
Responding to a query by Alderman Davis, Attorney Isenberg pointed out that the
cancellation of the 4 th of July Festival differed from the recent peaceful
protests that are protected by the First Amendment of the Constitution.
Emphasizing the need to remain under a State of Emergency, Mayor Hatem noted
that new cases of COVID-19 are rising and are putting Southport’s over 65
population at risk. He added that numerous cities and towns throughout North
Carolina and the U.S. had cancelled 4 th of July celebrations.
Alderman Mosteller expressed gratitude for Mayor Hatem’s physician expertise
and having a Master of Public Health.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
   Alderman Mosteller suggested having draft minutes of the Planning Board
monthly meeting included in the Board’s Agenda packet.
   Alderman Mosteller asked that in addition to staff, the Chair of the
Planning Board speak at Board of Aldermen meetings on topics forwarded to the
Board of Aldermen from the Planning Board.
   Alderman Lombardi reported that the Beautification Committee held a
community clean up and hope to hold a membership meeting. Mayor Hatem suggested
holding any committee meetings outside or via Zoom.
MANAGER’S REPORT
   City Manager Hargrove reported that Mr. Chris May would present a Board
authorized employee salary study at the July Board meeting.
   City Manager Hargrove reported that a meeting with the Mayor, Mayor Pro Tem
and Brunswick County representatives would be held to discuss sewer services
and the Board would be apprised of the details of that discussion.
STAFF REPORTS - provided in Agenda packet
MAYOR’S COMMENTS
   Noting that the event was peaceful, respectful, and soulful, Mayor Hatem
expressed appreciation to all involved in the recent prayer march and
demonstration for the loss of life of Mr. George Floyd. He stated he spoke
frequently with many members of the community during the week leading up to the
event to assure a safe, purposeful, prayful event. He stated he looks forward
to a similar event scheduled for Saturday, June 13, 11:00 a.m. beginning at
Waterfront Park and he encouraged all to attend.
   Mayor Hatem spoke about the spirituality of the city; “Discrimination is not
allowed to exist as our churches are open to all who wish to enter. Our City is
full of free speech newspapers, and books abound in the library. I think that
imbibes what we are trying to do here in Southport and I appreciate the Letters
to the Editor that thanked the police department and sheriff’s office for all
they did and I thank the committee that set the march up.”
BOARD COMMENTS
   Alderman Allen encouraged everyone to complete the Census 2020
questionnaire.
   Alderman Spencer thanked Pastor Monroe for attending the meeting. Alderman
Spencer addressed comments to residents of Forest Oaks and Southport Way and he
spoke about the difficult decision to permit a new housing development in the
area. He spoke about past 4 th of July celebrations and he wished all a Happy 4
th of July.
   Alderman Sharkey thanked law enforcement leadership for organizing the
recent march and making it happen in a positive way. She quoted from an article
by Michael Hall, writer for the State Port Pilot, “Injustice anywhere is the
threat to justice everywhere” by Martin Luther King Jr. and John F. Kennedy;
“Let us not seek the republican answer or the democratic answer but the right
answer. Let us not seek to fix the blame for the past, let us accept our own
responsibility for the future.”
   Alderman Davis spoke about traffic on W. Brunswick and Short streets. She
discussed potential options, i.e., close Short Street to through vehicular
traffic; initiate one-way traffic, install speed bumps/speed humps.
   Per request by Alderman Mosteller, her comments are included verbatim:
“The Southport City Dock has been in the Yacht Basin since the late 1950’s. As
a result of the damage sustained during Hurricane Matthew in 2016, the City was
given FEMA funds and a grant from the Golden Leaf foundation to rebuild the
dock. After several starts and stops, the City has been waiting on CAMA permit
approval since November of 2019 to rebuild the dock.
The City was made aware about a month ago, that Preston Development, owners of
the Southport Marina, had submitted a preliminary CAMA permit application to
build 86 boat lift type slips in the ICW in front of the marshes and build
adjoining walkways and docks in the marsh and around in the Yacht Basin. The
City then reached out to the regional office of the NC Division of Coastal
Management for clarification of the Marina’s proposed project and was informed
that the completed application had yet to be submitted to CAMA and the City of
Southport would be contacted for comment once Preston Development’s application
was complete.
Last Thursday, June 4th, on behalf of Preston Development, Mr. Rose, the Vice
President of Land Acquisitions and Construction for Preston Development
contacted the Southport City Manager Mr. May, to advise the city that Preston
Development’s recent submittal for a CAMA permit to build additional new docks
in the marsh areas adjacent to the Marina was being withheld by CAMA due to the
City of Southport’s existing Open Space District zoning.
According to the City Manager, Mr. Rose, indicated that because Southport’s
current zoning does not allow the Marina’s business use in Open Space, the
Preston Development Company, would be withholding the riparian line agreement
between the current City Dock project and their property. Further, Mr. Rose
indicated that Preston Development is now claiming that their riparian line
intersects with the Southport City Dock.
In part, because of Preston Development’s new objection to the City’s riparian
line, CAMA has placed the Southport City Dock permit application on hold
pending resolution and riparian line agreements.
The City Manager also indicated that during the call, Mr. Rose offered to
discuss what he called a compromise whereby Preston Development would be
allowed to build new docks onto the marsh that is zoned Open Space District.
This would require the City of Southport to change the current zoning ordinance
in order to give Preston Development the right to build commercial docks in an
area zoned Open Space.
Current Southport zoning defines Open Space District as areas of special
interest that should be placed in a zone protected from any development other
than improvements or uses undertaken by the City of Southport.
Based on records, in recognition of its value to our community, the marsh areas
beside the Yacht Basin may have been zoned Open Space for over 35 years. The
city dock has been in the Yacht Basin for over 60 years.
In 2007, the City of Southport gave Preston Development a zoning variance to
build the existing 50-foot dry stack storage building. Last year, in 2019, a
majority of the Board of Aldermen voted to sell to Preston Development two and
a half acres of water access land at the end of West West Street for $650,000.
Then, against the recommendation of the Planning Board, a majority of the Board
of Aldermen voted to change the zoning for Preston Development to maximize
their investment and build a second 50-foot-high dry stack storage building.
The city has always worked with Preston Development and has been more than
reasonable and accommodating.…
Now, they want to claim the very heartbeat of Southport for more profit.
Preston Development is in the business of making money… but their short-term
gain would be at the expense of Southport’s future. I say to Preston
Development…We do live here; we do know that the marsh is zoned Open Space for
a reason, we do know that Southport, in part, is defined by the Yacht Basin and
the marshes.
The CAMA Core Land Use Plan, our city’s strategic long-range planning document
includes policies, regulations, land use goals and planning objectives for the
future of the City of Southport and its citizens.
In the plan, under Southport’s Vision and Core Values, the first two named
priorities are:
Preserve Southport’s historic character
Protect Southport’s Shoreline Vista
Let me repeat that … our Vision and Core Values…
Preserve the city’s historic character.
Protect the city’s shoreline vista.
Am I to understand if Southport does not give Preston Development a zoning
change to allow them to ruin the open space zoned marsh, then Preston
Development will make the claim that their riparian line should prevent the
City of Southport from rebuilding the City Dock that was originally built in
the late 1950’s? Our city manager said yes, from the conversation, this is what
he understood was being offered.
It’s a sad day in Southport. Sounds like the Board has been asked to choose
between changing the definition of Open Space zoning and giving up rebuilding
Southport’s City Dock for our citizens and the public to enjoy.
In this year’s budget, the City of Southport has $255,000 available from FEMA
and grant money to rebuild the City Dock. And now, if Preston Development stops
the City from getting a CAMA permit because they will not agree with our
riparian line, the opportunity will expire, and the City will lose the money to
rebuild the dock.
I would like to believe that the owners of Preston Development, would
reconsider their demand to build in the Open Space zoned marsh in trade for
allowing Southport to rebuild our historic City Dock. I have to wonder if they
have ever looked across the Yacht Basin to see the marsh …the unparalleled
vista that is the heartbeat of our community.
I say to Preston Development, that Southport has helped the Marina be
successful… now, we ask you to help us preserve and protect our historic
character and our shoreline vista… Preston Development… please dance with the
one that brung ya… honor Southport and what makes our city this very special
place. Please let the citizens of Southport rebuild our dock and preserve the
heartbeat of our community.”
 
ADJOURN
   Alderman Lombardi moved, with a second by Alderman Mosteller to adjourn the
June 11, 2020 regular Board meeting. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
 
                        /s/ Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor
                           
Attest: /s/ Michele Windham, City Clerk
JULY 9, 2020
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING JULY 9, 2020
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:   Mayor Joseph P. Hatem
      Aldermen Karen Mosteller, Lora Sharkey, Lowe Davis,
      Marc Spencer, John Allen, Tom Lombardi
STAFF PRESENT:   Gordon Hargrove, City Manager
         Michele Windham, City Clerk
         Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
         Tanya Shannon, Deputy City Clerk
         Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
         Todd Coring, Police Chief
         Charles Drew, Fire Chief
         David Fox, Public Works Director
         Tom Stanley, Assistant Public Works Director
         Thomas Lloyd, Planner
         Randy Jones, Tourism Director
         Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
         Lisa Anderson, Videographer
         Kate Marshall, APS/Code Enforcement Officer
A) Call to Order - 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Hatem called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B) Invocation
Reverend Krantz gave the Invocation.
C) Pledge of Allegiance
Mayor Hatem led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D) Public Comment
Ms. Tina Powers, representing Up Your Arts, reported on the group's progress on
the former City Hall, 20 l E. Moore Street, renovation. She stated that an e-
mail had been sent to the Aldermen pertaining to the mold remediation, moving
into Phase 2 of the project, and scheduling a meeting with the Board and City
staff to review, in depth, the findings of Phase I. Responding to a query from
Alderman Lombardi, Ms. Powers indicated that fund raising for the project would
commence after the Board of Aldermen approved the project.
Mr. Rich Alt, 6165 Cottage Creek Drive, commented on the Bald Head Island
Limited & East West Partners proposed Indigo Plantation Development. He talked
about drainage issues, collapsed pipes, water pressure, traffic impact on the
elementary school, ingress/egress, and conditions of the roads. He added that
the project would be a boon for Southport, and he would be attending future
meetings to "keep you on track - the devil is in the details."
E) Approval of Agenda
Mayor Hatem requested the following revisions:
   •   Remove recognition of Chris May
   •   Remove Consent Agenda Item #2 Bonnet Way Annexation: Certificate of
Sufficiency
   •   Move Item 14, Presentation: Bald Head Limited & East West Partners,
Proposed Indigo Plantation Development to Item #5
   •   Remove Item #9, Salary Study
   •   Revise Item 12, Preserve at Fisher Landing Deed of Dedication &
Acceptance of Water and Sewer and Road Infrastructure
   •   Alderman Mosteller moved, with a second by Alderman Lombardi to approve
the Agenda as amended. Unanimous vote; motion carried .
F) Special Recognition
Mayor Pro Tern Mosteller read the Proclamation Recognizing City Clerk Michele
Windham into the record.
PROCLAMATION
HONORING MICHELE WINDHAM ON HER RETIREMENT FROM CLERK FOR THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT
Whereas, the City of Southport wishes to acknowledge and express appreciation
to Michele Windham for her dedicated service to the citizens of Southport as
City Clerk; and
Whereas, Ms. Windham has served the City of Southport for over sixteen years;
from December 12, 2003 to ,July 28, 2020; and
Whereas, as the City Clerk, she has devoted her time, energy, and talents to
the City and provided experience and sound judgment on its behalf with
unfailing integrity, dignity and thoughtful reflection; and
Whereas, Ms. Windham was an integral part of the daily duties and
responsibilities to the functions of the City and; and maintained record on all
matters, facts and proposals presented before the Council, and always kept the
public's interest her first priority; and
Whereas, Ms. Windham has worked tirelessly through many transitions, disasters,
and other circumstances in the City without discouragement or frustration; and
Whereas; Ms . Windham was and continues to be a strong supporter for promoting
the natural beauty and preservation of the City of Southport; and
NOW, THEREFORE, I, Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, and the Board of Aldermen on behalf
of the City of Southport present Michele Windham with a key to the City with
deep appreciation and gratitude for the gifts of time, ability, and commitment
in carrying out the duties of City Clerk and extend heartfelt wishes and
success in her future endeavors.
Adopted this 9th day of July 2020.
            / s/ Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor
/ s/ Karen Mos teller , Mayor Pro Tern      / s/ Alderman, Lora Sharkey
/ s/ Alderman, Marc Spencer         / s/ Alderman, John Allen
/s/ Alderman Lowe Davis            /s/ Alderman, Thomas Lombardi
ETHICS STATEMENT: If any member of the Board knows of any conflict of interest
or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect to matters on the
agenda, to please so state it at this time.
Noting that he is a Medical Director at Dosher Memorial Hospital, Mayor Hatem
stated that there would be an appearance of a conflict of interest in regard to
Agenda Items #6 & #7. He indicated that Mayor Pro Tern Mosteller would conduct
those items.
CONSENT AGENDA
Alderman Sharkey moved, with a second by Alderman Davis to approve the Consent
Agenda as amended. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   1.   Minutes of June l, 2020 Special Meeting; Minutes of June l l, 2020
Regular Meeting- approved
   2.   Bonnet Way Annexation: Certificate of Sufficiency Item removed from
Agenda .
   3.   Budget Transfer - approved (copy on file in the Clerk' s office)
   4.   Resolution Authorizing Sale of Surplus Property by Private Negotiation
and Sale - approved
RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING SALE OF SURPLUS PROPERTY BY PRIVATE NEGOTIATION AND SALE
WHEREAS, the City of Southport owns equipment that has become surplus for its
current needs; and
WHEREAS, all of said property is valued at less than$ 30,000.00 for one item or
group of items; and
WHEREAS, North Carolina General Statute § 160A-266 permits the city to sell
such property by private sale, upon authorization by the Board of Aldermen at a
regular meeting and notice to the public; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen is convened in a regular meeting;
NOW THEREFORE, THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN OF THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT RESOLVES THAT:
   1.   The Board of Aldermen authorizes the City Manager to sell by private
sale the following items of surplus property:
      •   1998 Gruman Aerial/Pumper (Ladder 363)
      •   1989 American Eagle Pumper {'{'}Engine 377)
      •   Various nozzles, ladders, SCBA Bottles, hose and other assorted
firefighting equipment
   2.   The City Clerk shall publish a notice summarizing this resolution and
no sale may be executed pursuant to this resolution until at least 10 days
after the date that the notice is published.
DATED, this 9th day of July 2020.
               Isl Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor
Attest: Isl Michele Windham, City Clerk
AGENDA
   5.   Presentation: Bald Head Island Limited & East West Partners, Proposed
Indigo Plantation Development
The Board was provided packets of information and renderings.
Mr. Chad Paul, Bald Head Island Limited CEO, addressed the Board. He explained
that Limited has owned nearly 391 acres surrounding and adjacent to Indigo
Plantation since 1980. He stated that a collaboration with East West Partners
proposed developing the property into various types of residential housing,
parks, walking trails, senior assisted living, and businesses . He estimated it
would be two (2) to three (3) years before development started and ten (10) to
fifteen (15) years to be built out. He spoke about working with the City to
annex the property into the City limits, availability of utilities and a
multitude of planning details to create a legacy comm unity . He spoke about
East West Partners' track record, and its community developments in Wilmington
and Chapel Hill.
Mr. Roger Perry, East West Partners President, with 49 years' experience ,
spoke to the Board about the high-quality mixed-use community being proposed
and stated that they have three (3) core values:
   1.   Be good stewards of the land; environmentally sustainability to the
community
   2.   Do things that create a value and quality of life for people who choose
to invest.
   3.   Be an equal partner with the City.
Mr. Lucien Ellison, East West Senior Partner, stated that the Partners are
coming to Southport to build a collaborative relationship with the Board,
staff, and create a residential interactive community that works for everybody.
He stated they want to hear ideas about connectivity, open space, green space,
and density. He added that they want to form a relationship with Dosher
Memorial Hospital in the mixed-use element. The project will connect to the
city with multiple ingress and egress, will connect to natural amenities,
fingers of wetlands, preserve wildlife and specimen trees, there will be a
central park, nature trails, walking paths, and sidewalks. He pointed out that
over 30% will be green space.
   6.   Public Hearing ZA 20-051-01: Zoning Amendments; Unified Development
Ordinance (UDO), Article 2: Definitions, Article 10: Table of Permitted Uses,
and Article 12: Zoning & Conditional Use Permit Approval Concerning
Transitional Housing Facilities
City Planner Lloyd presented a proposed zoning amendment to approve
Transitional Housing Facilities as a Conditional Use in the Office &
Institutional zoning district. Memorandum of Jun 29, 2020 included in its
entirety:
BACKGROUND
At the May 21st Planning Board meeting, Brunswick Partnership for Housing (BPH)
requested that the Planning Board consider amending the ordinance to add
language for transitional housing facilities to the UDO. BPH described
transitional housing as a project that is designed to provide housing and
appropriate services to families in order to facilitate movement to independent
living within an average of nine months. These facilities would provide
services such as educational programs, counseling, and other social services to
assist residents in their transition to permanent housing. She explained that
these types of facilities are not licensed by State or National programs. The
current language in the ordinance does not have a provision for this type of
facility. The Planning Board established a committee to draft language for
transitional housing facilities. The committee proposed adding a definition for
transitional housing facilities and proposed allowing them as a conditional use
in the 0/1 district in the table of permitted uses. They also proposed
supplemental standards that would screen the property from other adjacent
residential uses, added parking standards specific to these facilities, and
limited the number of units to 5. See the preliminary minutes that are attached
from the June 18 th Planning Board meeting for more information.
REQUEST
To amend Article 2: Definitions to add a definition and supplemental standards
for transitional housing facilities, Article 10: Table of Permitted Uses to
make Transitional Housing Facilities a Conditional Use in 0/1, and Article 12:
Zoning & Conditional Use Permit Approval to add supplemental standards. It is
important to note that this is a zoning amendment that would allow this type of
facility in all of the office/institutional zoning district. This is about the
ordinance as a whole and not the project that BPH is proposing. The Board of
Aldermen must adopt a statement of plan consistency (whether the proposed
amendment is consistent with the CAMA Land Use Plan and amending the CAMA Land
Use Plan if it is not) and then vote on the proposed text am endment .
PLANNING BOARD RECOMMENDATION
At the May 21st and June 18th Planning Board meeting, the Planning Board
reviewed this text amendment. The committee that came up with the language
thought it would be best for transitional housing facilities to be a
conditional use permit so any potential facilities would go through both the
Planning Board and the Board of Adjustment for review. The Board of Adjustment
would have a quasi-judicial hearing and would do a finding of facts to ensure
(a) that the use will not materially endanger the public health, safety, or
general welfare if located where proposed and developed according to the plan
as submitted and approved; (b) that the use meets all required conditions and
specifications; (c) that the use will not adversely affect the use or any
physical attribute of adjoining or abutting property, or that the use is a
public necessity; and (d) that the location and character of the use, if
developed according to the plan as submitted and approved, will be in harmony
with the area in which it is to be located and in general conformity with the
City of Southport Land Use Plan. The burden would be on the applicant to prove
all 4 of those statements. The Board of Adjustment would also be able to place
reasonable conditions on the Conditional Use Permit that would run with the
property. The committee also thought that since this would be similar to a mf
use, Office Institutional would be an appropriate area because it allows things
like duplexes, triplexes, quadraplexes, townhomes, and apartments on the basis
of obtaining a conditional use permit . The rest of the Planning Board agreed.
At the June 22nd Special Planning Board meeting, the Planning Board found that
the proposed text amendment was consistent with the 2015 CAMA Land Use Plan and
voted to recommend approval.
Alderman Davis questioned if there was language in the amendment that would
prevent the use from evolving into an emergency overnight shelter. At Alderman
Davis' request, City Planner Lloyd stated that the definition of Transitional
Housing Facilities could include, "this definition shall not include emergency
overnight shelter."
Alderman Spencer moved, with a second by Alderman Davis to open Public Hearing.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Ms. Beth LeBlanc, 224 E. 11th Street, spoke in support of the text amendment
concerning Transitional Housing Facilities.
Giving examples of people in need, Ms. Becky Felton 230 N. Caswell Avenue,
member of Brunswick Partnership for Housing, spoke about the need for a
transitional housing facility to help "our neighbors who need our help."
Ms. Sage Seeley, 255 E. 11 th Street, resident of Brunswick Village, stated her
stance in support of transitional housing. She related her experience of loss
during Hurricane Irma and her journey to Southport.
Ms. Sally Learned, Brunswick Partnership for Housing, spoke about the
organization's endeavors towards requesting the proposed text amendment. She
indicated that there is a real need for families with children. She emphasized
that the scope of the housing is very definitive, not for emergency housing,
and there are multiple layers of review and safeguards to protect the community
and enhance the program.
Expressing appreciation for Brunswick Partnership for Housing's outreach to the
community, Mr. Cliff Pender, 230 E. 11th Street, expressed his concerns about
the proposed location for transitional housing. He urged the City to find a
better location outside the city limits than in dense residential
neighborhoods.
Mr. Stephen Dillow, 3445 St. James Drive, vice-chairman of Brunswick
Partnership for Housing, spoke of his 40-year career in Family Services. He
empathized with the safety concerns and assured the Board that any families
making use of the transitional housing program would be vetted by other
agencies, thoroughly screened, and there would be strict rules about behavior.
He spoke about the sobering number of homeless families with children.
Praising the remarkable job Brunswick Partnership for Housing is doing, Mr. Roy
Pender, 7766 Skipjack Circle, stated his opinion that the proposed text
amendment was being requested in the Office & Institutional (O&I) zoning
district because there is currently a building available in that zoning
district for the proposed use. He emphasized considering closely the areas that
are O&I and the uses permitted.
Ms. Dawn Coleman, 233 E. 11th Street, a paint contractor by trade, offered her
assistance and shared her experience with homelessness. She begged the Board to
consider a better location.
Mr. Joel Clary, 120 NE 38th Street, Oak Island, spoke about the lostjobs due to
COVID-19 in the service industries and the lack of affordable housing for those
displaced. He noted that area churches are doing all they can with limited
resources, and he urged the Board to approve the proposal.
Mr. Gary Pethe, 221 E. 11th Street, speaking on behalf of himself, Ms. Martha
Johnson who was unable to attend and residents at 217 & 225 E. 11th Street,
endorsed the proposed amendment and spoke about living in a neighborhood with a
similar program and never experiencing any problems.
City Clerk Windham read the following public comments into the record:
Dear Mr. Lloyd,
Our names are John and Susan DeLaney. We live at 304 W. West Street and have
been citizens of Southport since 2015.
It has come to our attention that a zoning text amendment is being considered
that would change the current regulations regarding transitional housing
facilities within the city limits of Southport. We would like to voice our
concern with this proposal. Although we understand the need for transitional
housing, we are concerned with allowing these facilities within our city
limits. We do not believe it is best for our community and do not believe it
would be the best for the residents of the facility.
Southport is a small, primarily residential community. As with many of the
residents, we chose to live in Southport because of its safe, friendly
environment. We believe that a transitional housing facility in Southpmt would
detract from the safety and peace of mind that our community has come to enjoy.
Secondly, we do not believe that a transitional housing facility within
Southport would be the best for their residents. We have members of our own
family that have lived in transitional housing units. The times when they have
benefited the most have been when these facilities were located in very rural
areas. Being away from bars and liquor stores and live music venues has helped
to remove the temptations that led them to make poor decisions in the past.
Brunswick county is blessed with an abundance of beautiful, quiet, rural areas
that would provide a much better environment for these individuals as they work
to put their lives back together.
For the sake of the residents of Southport, and for the betterment of the
transitioning residents, we ask the leadership of our community to reject the
proposed zoning amendment.
Best regards,
John and Susan DeLaney
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
------------
July 9, 2020
Dear Mayor and Aldermen/women:
I am writing today to support the purchase of a property on 11 th St by
Brunswick Partnership for Housing to be used as transitional housing.
My husband and I moved to Southport toward the beginning of 2019 from Green
Bay, WI. While we were in Green Bay, I worked as the Director of Operations for
an organization called Ecumenical Partnership for Housing. It is a non-profit
organization made up of about 20 area churches that provide transitional
housing for families coming out of shelter/homeless conditions. This is very
similar to what BPH is beginning here in Brunswick county.
What I love and support about a program like this is that it is a hand up, not
a handout. It allows people to live in a stable environment and receive
guidance and support to get back on their feet. Such a scattered site program
as BPH supports, lets people live in a stable community with more " per
pressure" toward being a good citizen and not putting a volume of people
together where inappropriate choices can be exacerbated.
Brunswick County has several challenges before them in addressing issues of
affordable housing. But, this small step of allowing BPH to purchase the
property on 11th St is one that I strongly recommend.
I am asking you to take the necessary steps to allow BPH to purchase the
property and make room for this transitional housing opportunity.
Sincerely, Sue Mills
194 St. Brendan Ct
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
------------
Dear Mayor Hatem and Aldennen of Southport,
Last year in February, the good people of St. Philip's Episcopal Church called
me to serve as their lead priest and rector. Together with my wife, Sue, and my
90-year-old parents, we moved into the wonderful community of Southport. All
four of us remarked about the simple beauty of Southport. The beautiful homes,
the friendly people, the safety of being able to walk about the community at
any time of day, the merchants, and their way of making everyone feel welcome
and important. All of this in addition to coming to St. Philip's make this feel
like a dream come true.
One of the marks that make a community strong, is how they care for the
"invisibles." One only needs to walk the streets of Southport and it becomes so
easy to get lost in the beauty, the history, the friendly faces and families
out walking their dogs, that those in need become lost, they fall off of the
radar, they become invisible. And the natural thought is that there is no need
in Southport. But there is!
How we take care of our fellow citizens who have needs that are seemingly
invisible to us is vitally important to Southport, because a family takes care
of itself. We have an onus as a community of brothers and sisters who have
joined together in life to ensure the most basic needs of one another are met.
In the Episcopal tradition, we try to live our life, to pattern our lives after
the commandment of Jesus Christ to "love one another as I have loved you" (Jn
13:34). For us, this becomes the answer to the question "why?" Why do this or
do that... why dedicate land or offer assistance and help to others? And our
answer is simple: because we are to love one another.. . meaning we are to give
of our best to help another.
I believe that is the hallmark of healthy for any community ... whether it is a
church or city, how do we intentionally take care of one another?
And for this reason, I lend my voice of support for the Brunswick Partnership
for Housing purchase and rezoning of the Dosher Hospital site. BPH is that aim
of our community, of Southport, that reaches into the invisible and meets a
huge need at its most vulnerable point - providing a means to move from
homelessness into a real home. That transfonnation process is critical to the
growth and health of our citizens and our beloved Southport.
In the strongest way, I urge the Board of Aldennen to approve and suppo1t the
work of BPH and the needs they have brought before you.
In closing, on a personal note, thank you for this wonderful community, my new
home, Southport!
Sincerely,
Rev. Eric Mills
Rector, St. Philip's Episcopal Church
   Alderman Davis moved, with a second by Aldem1an Sharkey to close Public
Hearing. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   7.   Consideration of Zoning Amendment; UDO Article 2, 10 & 12
Following the public hearing and before discussion of the proposed text
amendment, Attorney Isenberg advised the board (i) that this was not a rezoning
of particular property; (ii) that this was also not a decision regarding a
particular project as the proposal was to add this as a conditional use to the
entire 0/1 District and that the decision whether or not to allow a particular
project would be handled thru the conditional use process by the Board of
Adjustment; and (iii) that the decision was to determine whether there is a
need for transitional housing in our zoning jurisdiction and if so, whether the
O/I District was the proper district in which to place this condition use.
Responding to Alderman Sharkey, Planner Lloyd provided examples of uses by
right and conditional uses in the 0/1 zoning district, i.e. hospitals, doctor
offices, nursing homes, multi-family, duplex/triplexes, apartments, townhomes.
Alderman Davis stressed including language in the amendment to prohibit
emergency overnight housing. Alderman Sharkey stated her opinion that the
amendment as presented would not permit those types of facilities. Planner
Lloyd pointed out that a Conditional Use Permit for the use would be presented
to the Board of Adjustment and they could include additional conditions on the
project.
Alderman Davis, with the assistance of Attorney Isenberg, with a second by
Alderman Mosteller made the following motion:
   1.   To modify the proposed definition of Transitional Housing Facility by
adding the following sentence at the end of the definition: "This shall not
include emergency overnight housing".
   2.   That the Board find that the proposed text amendment as modified herein
is consistent with the 2015 CAMA Land Use Plan for the reasons stated in the
Statement of Plan Consistency submitted by the Planning Board in the agenda
package.
   3.   That the Board find that the text amendment as modified herein is
reasonable and in the public interest for the reasons set forth in the proposed
ordinance prepared by staff; and
   4.   That the Board adopt, enact and approve the Ordinance contained in the
agenda packet amending Article 2: Definitions, Article10: Table of Permitted
Uses, and Article 12: Zoning and Conditional Use Permit Approval, with the
addition of the above-referenced sentence to the definition of Transitional
Housing Facility.
   Discussion
   Alderman Spencer stated his thankfulness to Southport forefathers for
permitting low income housing at Brunswick Village and Fiddler's Creek
Apartments and he stated he was proud to be on a Board that voted on a
mechanism that can truly help someone.
   Alderman Sharkey supported adoption of the text amendment because the
concerns have been addressed , the use is distinctly defined, and it is another
example of how the City and Boards have provided assistance to those in need.
   Alderman Davis praised Brunswick Partnership for Housing (BPH) for bringing
forth one of the seven acts of loving kindness.
   Alderman Lombardi fully supported the amendment and stated he had received
overwhelming calls and e-mails in favor of the measure.
   Unanimous vote; motion carried.
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING ARTICLE 2 DEFINITIONS, ARTICLE 10 TABLE OF PERMITTED
USES, AND ARTICLE 12: ZONING & CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT APPROVAL CONCERNING
TRANSITIONAL HOUSING FACILITIES
   THAT WHEREAS, the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance and other
land use ordinances that control land development within both the City's
incorporated areas and within its extraterritorial area; and
   WHEREAS, in order to promote the public health, safety and general welfare
and to promote the best interest of the city and community, it is necessary for
the City Board of Aldermen from time to time to consider appropriate revisions,
modifications and additions to the city's land use ordinances; and
   WHEREAS, Brunswick Partnership for Housing has requested UDO text amendment
to amend Article 2 Definitions, Article 10 Table of Permitted Uses, and Article
12: Zoning & Conditional Use Permit Approval in order to incorporate
transitional housing facilities into the UDO; and
   WHEREAS, the Planning Board has reviewed this matter and found that the
proposed amendment to Article 2, Article 10, and Article 12 of the Unified
Development Ordinance to be consistent with the City of Southport CAMA Core
Land Use Plan and recommends its approval; and
   WHEREAS, pursuant to N. C. General Statutes and city ordinances, a public
hearing, properly noticed, was held on July 09, 2020 before the Board of
Aldermen regarding this issue; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen, after considering the public hearing
response and the recommendation of the Planning Board, together with the
comments of staff, hereby finds that this text amendment is consistent with the
2015 CAMA Land Use Plan for the reasons stated in its Statement of Plan
Consistency attached hereto and incorporated herein; and
   WHEREAS, the current UDO does not have a provision for this type of facility
and the Board of Aldermen further finds that this amendment is reasonable and
in the public interest because the CAMA Land Use Plan supports quality
development reflecting the spectrum of housing needs, Section 6 :Plan for the
Future identifies affordable housing as an important need that needs to be
addressed by the City, the CAMA Land Use Plan also encourages uniformity in the
types of uses that are allowed in zoning districts.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that
Article 2, Article 10, and Article 12 of the Southport Unified Development
Ordinance is hereby amended as follows on Exhibit A attached.
This, the 9th day of July 2020         City of Southport
                     Isl Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor
Attest: Michele Windham, City Clerk
EXHIBIT A
Zoning Text Amendment: ZA 20-0521-01
Additions Highlighted
ARTICLE 2. BASIC DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS
Transitional Housing Facility. A facility configured as a multifamily
development but operated and funded by a nonprofit, charitable, religious, or
governmental organization to provide temporary housing and appropriate
supportive services to families or individuals to facilitate movement to
independent living over a 3 to 24-month period. A transitional housing facility
may provide social services, counseling, and other programs to assist residents
in the transition to permanent housing. This classification shall not be
construed to include uses licensed or supervised by any federal, state, or
county health/welfare agency, such as group homes, halfway houses, boarding
homes for children, and convalescent nursing homes. This shall not include
emergency overnight housing.
ARTICLE 10. TABLE OF PERMITTED USES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2185.png]
 
ARTICLE 12.
Section 12-19: Supplemental Regulations
   (B)   Each Conditional Use must comply with all requirements of this
Ordinance and the following supplemental regulations for each specified
conditional use:
      (59)   Transitional Housing Facility.
         (a)   There shall be two parking spaces for each dwelling unit and on
parking space for each 300 gross sf of office area.
         (b)   Transitional Housing Facilities shall be screened from adjacent
properties with an 8 ft opaque fence where adjacent to residential.
         (c)   Transitional Housing Facilities shall have a maximum of 5
dwelling units.
   8. Public Hearing ZA 20-0521-02: Zoning Amendment; Unified Development
Ordinance (UDO) Article 11: Table of Area, Yard, Density and Height
Memorandum from Planner Lloyd to the Board of Aldermen dated June 29, 2020
included in its entirety:
BACKGROUND
At the May 14th Board of Aldermen meeting, Alderman Davis brought up some
concerns about how the 50-foot height text amendment for dry storage buildings
was still present in the current ordinance. It was mentioned that the language
was proposed to be removed as part of the UDO Update process. Alderman Davis
was concerned because if someone with a 40 wet slip marina in Business District
were to apply for such a structure prior to the ordinance being updated, they
would have the right to be approved under the existing ordinance at the time of
their application being submitted. The Board of Aldermen instructed the
Planning Board to come up with a proposed amendment that would remove the SO-
foot Marina Height provision in the Table of Area Yard & Density.
To be clear, this would not affect the approved site plan by Southport Marina
for their SO-foot structure. The commercial site plan approval for Southport
Marina is subject to the vested rights provisions as referenced in GS 160A-
335.1. Once a site-specific development plan is approved, a right which has
been vested shall remain vested for a period of two years from the date of
approval. Such vested right shall confer upon the landowner the right to
undertake and complete the development and use of said property under the terms
and conditions of the approved site-specific development plan. Their commercial
site plan for that project was approved on October 17, 2019.
The planning board established a review committee met on June 2, 2020 to
discuss the amendment. It was the consensus of the committee to delete the
superscript and language that allows Marina's with 40 or more wet boat slips in
Business district to have dry storage buildings with a maximum height of 50
feet. To be clear, the proposal is for the language that was added last year to
be removed from the UDO.
REQUEST
To amend Article 11: Table of Area, Yard, Density, and Height to delete the
superscript and language that allows Marina's with 40 or more wet boat slips in
Business district to have dry storage buildings with a maximum height of 50
fee. The Board of Aldermen must adopt a statement of plan consistency (whether
the proposed amendment is consistent with the CAMA Land Use Plan and amending
the CAMA Land Use Plan if it is not) and then vote on the proposed text
amendment.
PLANNING BOARD RECOMMENDATION
At the June 13 th Planning Board meeting, the Planning Board reviewed this text
amendment. The Planning Board supported the proposed language because they did
not recommend that the original amendment be approved in the first place. At
the June 13th meeting of the Planning Board, the Planning Board found that the
proposed text amendment was consistent with the 2015 CAMA Core Lane Use Plan
and voted to recommend approval.
Alderman Spencer moved, with a second by Alderman Mosteller to open Public
Hearing. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
No one from the public spoke.
Alderman Lombardi moved , with a second by Alderman Mosteller to close Public
Hearing. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   9. Consideration of Zoning Amendment; UDO Article 11
   Alderman Davis moved, with a second by Alderman Lombardi to approve the
zoning amendment as presented.
Discussion
   Aldermen Spencer and Sharkey expressed concerns about adopting the amendment
in the midst of a complete UDO update.
   Aye:   Aldermen Davis, Lombardi, Mosteller, Allen
   Nay:   Aldermen Sharkey, Spencer
   Motion carried 4-2
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING ARTICLE 11 TABLE OF AREA YARD & DENSITY OF THE CITY OF
SOUTHPORT UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
   THAT WHEREAS, the City has enacted a Unified Development Ordinance and other
land use ordinances that control land development within both the City's
incorporated areas and within its extraterritorial area; and
   WHEREAS, in order to promote the public health, safety and general welfare
and to promote the best interest of the city and community, it is necessary for
the City Board of Aldermen from time to time to consider appropriate revisions,
modifications and additions to the city's land use ordinances; and
   WHEREAS, the City of Southport Board of Aldermen directed the Planning Board
to review and propose language to amend Article 11 of the Unified Development
Ordinance to remove a footnote to the Article 11 Table of Yard, Area, Density
and Height Requirements that allows Marina dry storage buildings to have a
height of 50 feet in the BO District; and
   WHEREAS, the Planning Board has reviewed this matter and found that the
proposed amendment to Article 11 of the Unified Development Ordinance to be
consistent with the City of Southport CAMA Core Land Use Plan and recommends
its approval; and
   WHEREAS, pursuant to N. C. General Statutes and city ordinances, a public
hearing, properly noticed, was held on July 09, 2020 before the Board of
Aldermen regarding this issue; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen, after considering the public hearing
response and the recommendation of the Planning Board, together with the
comments of staff, hereby finds that this text amendment is consistent with the
2015 CAMA Land Use Plan for the reasons stated in its Statement of Plan
Consistency attached hereto and incorporated herein; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen further finds that this amendment is
reasonable and in the public interest because the CAMA Land Use Plan encourages
protecting the City's shoreline vista. The CAMA Land Use Plan also encourages
uniformity in zoning ordinances and decisions. Reducing the height of Dry
Storage Buildings in Business District to 40 feet make these types of
structures more uniform and consistent with the City of Southport's 40-foot
maximum height standard throughout all zoning districts.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Southport Board of Aldermen that
Article 11 the Southport Unified Development Ordinance is hereby amended as
follows on Exhibit A attached.
This, the 9th day of July, 2020.         City of Southport
                     Isl Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor
Attest: Isl Michele Windham, City Clerk
EXHIBIT A
ARTICLE 11.    TABLE OF AREA, YARD, DENSITY, AND HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS
(see Section 11-1, Notes 1-4)
         Minimum Net             Front Yard                       Height (see
District Buildable    Yard Width (see Note 4, Rear Yard Side Yard Note 3,
         Area (Square            Section 11-                      Section 11-1)
         Feet) 1                 1)
          Minimum Net             Front Yard                       Height (see
District  Buildable    Yard Width (see Note 4, Rear Yard Side Yard Note 3,
          Area (Square            Section 11-                      Section 11-
          Feet) 1                 1)                               1)
R-10      10,000       75         25           20        8         40
R-20      20,000       100        40           25        12        40
MF        13,750       99         25           20        8         40
          2
MH
-MH Parks 3 Ac.        75         25           20        25        40
-RV Parks 1 Ac.        75         25           20        25        40
-MH on    5,000        50         20           20        4         40
single
lot
PUD       6            3          3            3         3         3
0/1       12,000       70         25           15        10        40
CBD       0            0          0            0         O or4     40
                                                         ft.
BD        0            0          25           10        0         407
HC        10,000       75         25           204       8         40
LI        10,000       75         25           204       8         50
HI        43,560       100        25           255       15        100
OS        None         None       None         None      None      None
 
1 Nonconforming lots which are located in the Southport Historic Area may be
granted rear and side yard setbacks proportionate to the size of the lot.
Example: If a 10,000 square foot lot is required and the lot is 6,000 square
feet, a forty (40) percent reduction is allowed.
2 For the first two (2) units, plus an additional 3,300 square feet shall be
added to the lot for each dwelling unit.
3Shall be determined based upon the requirements of Land Use Plan approval
issued by the Board of Aldermen.
4 Where rear yards abut residential areas 25 feet.
5 70-foot rear yard where abutting residential district. A fence or plant
buffer should be provided where abutting a residential area.
6 8 acres in city limits
25 acres in Extra Territorial Jurisdiction (ETJ)
7 Marinas with 40 or more wet boat slips in this district may have dry storage
buildings with a maximum height of no more than 50 feet.
   10. Salary Study
   Item removed from Agenda.
   11. Traffic/Pedestrian Plan, W. Bay Street & Yacht Basin
   Chief Coring presented a traffic and pedestrian plan for W. Bay Street and
Yacht Basin Drive .
   He provided a rendering that showed a pedestrian lane along W. Bay Street
from Caswell Avenue continuing to the intersection of W. Moore Street and
Brunswick Street. Vehicular traffic would be one way as well on W. Bay Street
beginning at Caswell Avenue past the Yacht Basin businesses.
   Chief Coring stated that a test of the flow was performed over Memorial Day
Weekend and it received positive reviews. He indicated that the proposal did
not include Brunswick Street at this time.
   Responding to queries from Alderman Spencer, Chief Coring stated that the
walkway would be painted, signs would be installed, and golf cart parking would
be accommodated.
   Alderman Davis emphasized that Brunswick Street sees a great deal of
pedestrian traffic. Chief Coring stated that a walking path along Brunswick
Street could be a possibility.
   The Board discussed changing the direction of Brunswick and Short Streets.
Mayor Hatem expressed concerns about turning left off W. West Street onto Short
Street. Aldermen Allen and Spencer agreed that there is a blind spot at W. West
Street when traveling up the current direction of Short Street and it was their
contention that by changing the direction of Short Street, only residents that
live on the street would use it.
   Alderman Sharkey moved, with a second by Alderman Spencer to adopt the
pedestrian one- way plan as presented and request the Police Department to
report at the next regular meeting on incorporating Short Street and Brunswick
Street to be pedestrian friendly.
   Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   12. Final Plat; Preserve at Fisher Landing
   Memorandum from Planner Lloyd to the Board of Aldermen dated June 30, 2020
included in its entirety:
BACKGROUND
Hoosier Daddy LLC has filed for Final Plat Approval of the Preserve at Fisher
Landing. The Preliminary Plat was approved on January 10 of 2019 The Preserve
at Fisher Landing is a Major Subdivision between W 9th and W. 11th street. This
subdivision was developed using the Residential Cluster Development standards
found in Article 15 of the UDO. In cluster developments conventional zoning
standards are relaxed in order to provide an alternative development option
that promotes more efficient use of land resources, to better preserve the
site, and to provide desirable and useable open space .
This subdivision consists of 48 single family lots on a total of 15 acres. The
average lot size is 7813 sf. The open space requirement is 1:1 per lots less
than 10,000 sf. The total requirement is 2.46 acres. This property provides
2.46 acres of open space with 1.23 of that being contiguous. The setbacks will
be 15' in the front, 12' in the rear, 6' in the side. They are also including a
25' periphery boundary.
Prior to the recording of a Final Plat, there must either be infrastructure
already in place or there must be performance guarantees (such as a bond or
letter of credit.) According to the Public Works Director David Fox, the
developer has completed the required wastewater infrastructure, water
infrastructure, and road infrastructure to our construction standards. The
Public Works Department has received as-builts as well as certifications from
the Engineer in charge of the project. The City also required asphalt core
testing for the roads and tests for the water and sewer. The Public Works
Department has all of these on file. There is not sidewalk infrastructure yet,
but the developer will be submitting a performance guarantee equal to $63,350
(125% the cost of the infrastructure.)
REQUEST
Motion to approve the Final Plat for the Preserve at Fisher Landing.
STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Board of Aldermen approve the Final Plat for the
Preserve at Fisher Landing with the condition that the performance guarantee
for the sidewalk infrastructure be executed prior to the recording of the plat.
The Final Plat matches the Preliminary Plat and is in compliance with our
Subdivision regulations.
   Alderman Lombardi moved, with a second by Alderman Allen to approve the
Preserve at Fisher Landing Final Plat. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   13. Preserve at Fisher Landing Deed of Dedication & Acceptance of Water and
Sewer Infrastructure
   Memorandum from Planner Lloyd to the Board of Aldermen dated June 30, 2020
included in its entirety:
BACKGROUND
The developer of the Preserve at Fisher Landing is asking that the City accept
and take over maintenance of the water, sewer, and road infrastructure. The
stormwater infrastructure will still be private and maintained by the HOA.
According to the Public Works Director David Fox, the developer has completed
the required wastewater infrastructure, water infrastructure, and road
infrastructure to our construction standards. The sidewalk is to be constructed
as houses are built to prevent damage. The Public Works Department has received
as-builts as well as certifications from the Engineer in charge of the project.
The City also required asphalt core testing for the roads and additional tests
for the water and se wer. The Public Works Department has all of these on file.
REQUEST
Motion to accept the wastewater, water, and road infrastructure.
   Noting that the streets would be damaged during construction, Alderman
Lombardi questioned acceptance of the street infrastructure before the project
was built out. Planner Lloyd indicated that the City is under no obligation to
accept the streets prior to the industry standard of 60% built out. He
emphasized that the developer would have to bring the streets up to standards
prior to the City accepting them.
   Alderman Mosteller moved, with a second by Alderman Sharkey to accept water
and sewer infrastructure at the Preserve at Fisher Landing. Unanimous vote;
motion carried.
   14. Villas at Fisher Landing Deed of Dedication & Acceptance of Water and
Sewer Infrastructure
   Planner Lloyd reported that the approval of the Final Plat for the Villas at
Fisher Landing was done on an administrative level and the developer is now
asking for acceptance by the City of the water and sewer infrastructure. The
memorandum from Planner Lloyd to the Board of Aldermen dated June 30, 2020 is
included in its entirety:
BACKGROUND
The developer of the Fisher Landing Villas on 11th Street is asking that the
City accept and take over maintenance of the water and sewer infr astructure .
The stormwater infrastructure will still be private and maintained by the HOA.
According to the Public Works Director David Fox, the developer has completed
the required wastewater infrastructure and water infrastructure to City
construction stan dards. The Public Works Department has received as-builts as
well as certifications from the Engineer in charge of the project as well as
tests from third parties. The Public Works Department has all of these on file.
The road infrastructure will be privately maintained for this project
REQUEST
Motion to accept the wastewater and water infrastructure.
   Alderman Allen moved, with a second by Alderman Sharkey to accept dedication
of the water and sewer infrastructure in the Villas at Fisher Landing.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Committee Reports
   Alderman Lombardi announced that the Beautification Committee had pop up
crews weeding , planting , etc. around town . He stated that the monthly
meeting was not being held due to the pandemic. He announced that there are
positions open on the Committee and he directed those interested to an
application on the City' s website.
   Alderman Davis reported that the Forestry Committee had not met.
Manager's Report
No Report from the City Manager
Mayor's Comments
Mayor Hatem indicated that he would be recording a video in the coming days to
keep the citizens updated on the pandemic and status of City operations.
Mayor Hatem stated the meeting had been one of compare and contrast with the
presentation of the proposed Indigo Plantation development and the addition of
Transitional Housing. He pointed out that both items exhibited that Southport
welcomes everyone, is a city in growth, progressive and moving forward. He
expressed pride in the Board, City Attorney and City staff.
Staff Reports - provided in Agenda packet
Board Comments
Alderman Allen spoke about the City's strong financial position for the new
fiscal year, noting that the 2019-2020 budget was underspent and there was 40%
in fund balance. He thanked the Finance Director and staff for their
attentiveness at fiscal responsibility.
Noting that the Indigo Plantation property was the last large area in Southport
open to development, Alderman Spencer commented that the proposed growth would
be an historic and quality development for Southport.
Alderman Spencer asked for research and possible consideration of a net neutral
billing for residents using solar energy and selling it to the City. He pointed
out the current inequality of the buy back.
Alderman Spencer spoke about Southport historically being a sports town and he
suggested pursuing a semi-pro baseball team. He emphasized the need for family
activities.
Alderman Spencer congratulated all those involved with the Virtual 4th of July
production.
Alderman Spencer remembered Southport residents Amaretta Prevatte and Steve
Stephens that had passed.
Alderman Sharkey stated appreciation to Board members for approving the
Transitional Housing Facilities and their compassion towards those in need. She
thanked the Police Chief for the Yacht Basin traffic and pedestrian safety
plan.
Alderman Davis recognized the plight of some Stuart Avenue residents during
heavy rains, creation of "Lake Stuart," and traffic disruptions. She encouraged
looking into a remedy and installation of a storm drain. Mayor Hatem indicated
that staff is assessing the situation and evaluating options.
Aldennen Mosteller and Lombardi praised the 4th of July production and having
the history of Southport captured and available in perpetuity.
All Board members expressed thanks to retiring City Clerk Windham .
ADJOURN
Alderman Mosteller moved, with a second by Alderman Lombardi to adjourn the
meeting. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2196.png]
 
JULY 27, 2020
UDO JOINT WORKSHOP SESSION #2
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN AND PLANNING BOARD UDO JOINT WORKSHOP SESSION #2
COMMUNITY BUILDING                   JULY 27, 2020
223 E. BAY STREET                    SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2210_1401x1363.jpg]
 
JULY 27, 2020 3:30 P.M.
Present:
Planning Board Members Present:
Mayor Joseph P. Hatem
Mayor Pro Tern Karen Mosteller, Aldermen John Allen, Marc Spencer, Lora
Sharkey, Lowe Davis, and Thomas Lombardi.
Chairman Tish Hatem, Rich Bandera, Dick Sloan, Christopher Jones, and
Maureen Meehan.
Staff:   City Manager, Gordon Hargrove City Planner, Thomas Lloyd Building
Inspector, Wayne Strickland Tourism Director, Randy Jones Public Information
Officer, Lisa Anderson Clerk, Tanya Shannon
Other:   Senior Planner Caper Fear Council of Government, Wes Macleod
Call to Order: Mayor Hatem called the UDO Joint Workshop to order at 3:45 p.m.
Invocation was led by Alderman Lowe Davis.
Mayor Hatem led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
Approval of the Agenda with an amendment by Alderman Lowe Davis to add public
comment. Motion to amend by Alderman Thomas Lombardi, second by Mayor Pro Tern
Karen Mosteller. Unanimous vote; motion carri ed.
Public Comment:
David Rose 614 Burrington Avenue. Mr. Rose pertains to the UDO 3-year vison of
revising the UDO and the long-term complications with a failing infrastructure
and increasing traffic.
Richard Alt commented on development, tax records and how to design and develop
the land. Double the size of the city and the infrastructure. Cost the
developing of the large developments on tax and water and upgrades.
Recommendation to hire a consultant and get moratorium and until the master
plan in the ordinance has been finally decided and what a PUD is actually is.
Mr. Wes Macleod introduced himself and explained the continuation of the joint
workshop meeting to receive comments and concerns on the proposed Unified
Development Ordinance from the public, the Board of Aldermen and the Planning
Board.
Alderman Sharkey questioned Indoor Recreation Facilities on page 3-15 in
Business District. Alderman Mosteller said the indoor was more harmonious but
the outdoor recreation was removed . Recommendation for Commercial Indoor
Recreation Facilities to be included as a special use permit within a PUD with
proper conditions.
Alderman Sharkey recommended adding Boutique Hotel in PUD. Alderman Davis asked
for the definition of Boutique Hotel. Mr. Lloyd read the definition: HOTEL,
RESIDENTIAL OR BOUTIQUE Where permitted, residential or boutique hotels shall
be limited to 10 or fewer rooms or suites. There will shall not be any exterior
accessory uses (including swimming pools) except for off- street parking and
structures associated with landscaping.
Mr. Macleod said that hotels are more commercial, and boutiques are on a
smaller
scale, Boutique Hotels can be permitted on the Table of Uses as SS a special use with a
use st an dar ds. There was no disagreement from the Board.
Page 3-19 and change CS to SS and typo errors.
Page 3-19 Alderman Sharkey recommended
to allow maritime sales and service in PUD. Mr. Macleod stated most likely
there will not be boat sales in this district. Consensus of the Board to leave
the language as is.
Alderman Sharkey asks why carry out and fast food is not allowed in PUD.
[Image]
 
RESTAURANT, CARRY-OUT 722211        p p .e.
RESTAURANT, STANDARD  722211     s  p p p      Seetien
& FAST-FOOD                                    -R---±9
 
Page 3-15 indoor recreation facilities in BD by Alderman Sharkey.
Alderman Mosteller said the indoor was more harmonious but the outdoor
recreation was removed. Adding special use permit for indoor recreational use .
Add Permitted with special use permit for commercial indoor within the PUD with
proper conditions
Mr. Allen stated that this is specific to freestanding commercial use .
Sharkey adding boutique hotel in PUD. Lowe Davis Boutique Hotel? Thomas read
definition. Wes said that hotel and motel is mar commercial. Since boutiques is
smaller special use in the PUD with standards. Add SS in boutique hotel
Page 3-19 change CS to SS and add error typos. All grammar changed to what di
Karen say about what page and error.
Page 3-19 allow maritime sales and service in PUD Sharkey. Thomas read maritime
services and sales and rental definition. Wes most likely not to have boat
sales. Alderman Davis asks Sharkey what location she would be referring
to. Consensus of the board was to leave as is.
Restaurants carry out and fast food in PUD asks Sharkey why. We said left as was in the
table and not changes. Carry out would have limited parking and could be
allowable in
the PUD. Restaurant carry out as a special use. Wes said it would be a two-
step process adding a S there for special use in PUD in carry out .
Page 3-24 change zone tattoo change from HC to heavy industrial use only.
Page 3-31 docks piers, and bulkheads. 
Boat lifts said Karen Mosteller page 3-8. Opens space allowing residential for
docks, and has said current zoning map., and currently there is only 8 possibly
places. Mosteller requested to add special use permit and not just permitted.
Jonas Creek and Turtlewood were included in the 8 count. Sharkey asked if it
would be harmful to existing or potential docks. Community docks would not be
allowed. Wes said only in the open space district. Each residential could have
their own dock. Wes recommended that needs to be SFR dock and has to be
attached that resident. Thomas said it would be a special use permit with
quasi-judicial process. Special use permit for residential use and adding
community docks. Leave language as is with special permit use.
Not illuminated sign home occupation or any sign for home business. Sharkey
would see that have entrance to the home occupation such as entrance
signs etc....
Leave home occupation sign language as is.
Page 3-114 Thomas read sign exempt. With not visible from the right way
Alderman Davis clarify vending machines
and not allowable in BO. Drinking machines in CBD.
Thomas read outdoor vending machines includes news rack. Page 8-30
Alderman Mosteller asked Wes to modify language for news rack.
Solar energy systems why prohibited in all districts by Sha rkey. Wes stated
that is prohibited because the glare to neighbors could be annoying or
bothersome. Sharkey asked if it was commercial and not connected to
residential. Wes said that would not be prohibited it would have to be on the
rough. Alderman Sharkey asked if perhaps 01 or other locations could be
possible for ground solar. Consensus ofthe Board was to leave as is.
Page 3-27 residential use standards Alderman Lombardi add E add impact to the
city infrastructure.
Page 2.13 stormwater sections is 2.14 typo error page 2-
14 on the table of contents.
3-40 Planning Board Chairman Hatem stated the font 3 41 3-51 3 )11 am should be
11 pm
Alderman Mosteller on page 3-39 two different parcels with TIA. M r. Macleod
said it would have to reviewed in the TIA standards
Storage with 25 or more spaces. M r. Macleod clarified hard surface if it turns
into junkyard by defection Causes stormwater problems.
Alderman Davis discussed the impervious coverage systems versus gravel
.Alderman Mosteller said only allowed in HC, 10 . Wes said that get more
specified to require for all areas with 25 spaces. The stormwater process
overseen by the City and the State to ensure appropriate
Page 3-61 Planning Board Hatem bottom hotel motel inn last sentence in 2 remove
this sentence .
Page 3-62 Alderman Sharkey questions bars and sitting area . 
Trying to be open minded to help business and also help be compatible with
Southport. Mr. Macleod attached to the structure and unattached would
be problem.
Page 3-63 rental tours and instructions.
Alderman Sharkey misunderstood idea if small commercial versus large commercial
tours with residential communities.
Maritime and rental business in BD. 3-
12 Alderman Mosteller stated with special use
permit .Southport boat turs would only be allowed in the yacht basin area
Page 3-65 mobile vendors temporary outdoor seating. 
Mr. Macleod said this is standard language. Difficult to enforce. Could not
come up to empty lot and set up outdoor restaurant. Page 3-75?
Page 3-80 driveways question by Alderman Sharkey. 
All driveways being paved. Helpful to guide people to pervious coverage.
Alderman Mosteller stated a driveway permit is required.
Mr. Macleod said that this is an area that stormwater is a technical detail was
not discussed. Mr. Macleod recommended to acquire into stormwater regulations
and procedures by a professional stormwater engineer.
Alderman Lombardi could specify more standards to driveways. Have catch basin
under pavement to catch storm water. Mr. Macleod said this be included in the
stormwater update to include driveways.
Page 3-89 Alderman Allen parking is BD.
Clarify with structures with no off-street parking. Thomas the existing would
be grandfathered in and less they add on 25%.
Alderman Mosteller keeping CBD in less in you expanse more than 25% parkin
g. Ask CBD to add back to table 3.4. to revisit the idea for the parking
requirements and less you expand to much over 25% require additional parking
Page 3-89 2) Alderman Sharkey read and asked what is different.
Alderman Mosteller
said that increase in more than 25% increase in space . On street parking can allocate
the 50%.
Number 2 strike thru and add to the table and updated 3 in CBC and BD reduction in on
street facilities.
Mr. Macleod explained the parking overlay and working towards phasing out this
overlay parking district and the requirements.
Alderman Mosteller leave in# 2, But Alderman Allen said do not need to because
its in #3 and #4
Alderman Lombardi why on page 3-87 of dust proof surface was included. Mr.
Macleod said the cause stated that the developer must comply with the
developers if there is not compliance with the dust proof regulations.
Motion to Adjourn by Alderman Lora Sharkey, and second by Alderman Marc Spencer
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Adjournment at approximately 5:45 P.M
         Mayor, Joseph P. Hatem
         Attest: Clerk, Tanya Shannon
AUGUST 10, 2020
UDO JOINT WORKSHOP SESSION # 3
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN AND PLANNING BOARD UDO JOINT WORKSHOP SESSION # 3
COMMUNITY BUILDING                   AUGUST 10, 2020
223 E. BAY STREET                    SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2216_1843x1383.jpg]
AUGUST 10, 2020 1:30 P.M.
Present:    Mayor Joseph P. Hatem
      Mayor Pro Tem Karen Mosteller, Aldermen John Allen, Marc Spencer, Lora
Sharkey, Lowe Davis, and Thomas Lombardi.
Planning Board   Chairman Tish Hatem.
Members Present:
Staff:   City Manager, Gordon Hargrove City Planner, Thomas Llyod Building
Inspector , Wayne Strickland Tourism Director, Randy Jones Public Information
Officer, Lisa Anderson Deputy Clerk, Tanya Shannon
Other:    Senior Planner Cape Fear Council of Government, Wes MacLeod
Call to Order: Mayor Hatem called the UDO Joint Workshop to order at 1:40 p.m.
Moment of silence in honor of Becky Howard.
The Invocation was led by Alderman Lowe Davis.
Mayor Hatem led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
Approval of the Agenda by Alderman Thomas Lombardi, second by Mayor Pro Tem
Karen Mosteller. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Public Comment: None
Mayor Hatem introduced Mr. Wes MacLeod , Senior Planner from the Cape Fear
Council of Government and City Planner Thomas Lloyd.
Page 3-31 (E)
Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller suggested that since this language is generalized to
residential and HOA/POA docks. She recommended to add language that says within
an open space district a residential community dock attached to a home/property
owners association within a POA or HOA common area is permitted within the
community only. No remote docks. Also, she stated to add Residential HOA/POA
community dock is not allowed in the open space district as a remote recreation
facility for non-contiguous common area for Residential HOA/POA’s. Unanimous
vote.
Alderman Allen asks about the last sentence on this page 3-31 (E) and is under
accessory structures. He questions the last section and sentence ; “ Docks may
be utilized as a principal or accessory structure where permitted.” He asks if
the section is only concerning accessory structures, why is principal structure
included in the language. Mr. MacLeod said it needed to be clarified that a
dock is permitted on a vacant lot.
Alderman Mosteller stated that you could not have an accessory without a
primary.
Mr. MacLeod the language for use has always been permitted in the UDO. He
stated it was in two places previously. He stated that it could be added back
into the other place in the table.
Alderman Davis suggested to limit the attached docks within a POA/ HOA must be
attached to a common area and not each individual property owner to have a
dock.
Mr. MacLeod said that a common dock is permitted, and the adjacent property
owner is permitted to have a dock as well.
Alderman Mosteller stated her understanding this would allow already existing
docks to be conforming and then not become non-conforming.
Alderman Davis suggested that grandfather the existing docks in but not permit
multiple docks.
Mr. MacLeod stated that may become difficult to manage especially when docks
get damaged and rebuilt or repaired.
Alderman Davis if the existing docks are damaged could they be replaced? Mr.
MacLeod said yes they could be replaced with proper permitting.
Alderman Allen said that he did not think it was the intent to inhibit people
with waterfront property from building of docks.
CAMA would have to approve docks before construction.
Alderman Allen if the property is empty could owner still build dock? Mr.
MacLeod stated the it is the principal use for residential use only as an
accessory.
Mr. Llyod said to leave it in as long as it is clear as the use.
Alderman Mosteller said that it is accessory use it as a principal use then
needs not be in the principal needs to be accessory use.
Mr. Macleod said it could be added back but clearly distinct as a residential
use. Could cause confusion.
Leave as it is with clause that the principal use of lot and over time it will
become an accessory and leave other language as it.
Alderman Davis confirmed asked if a vacant lot could have a dock. Mr. MacLeod
said yes.
Alderman Mosteller wanted to clarify the principal use especially in business
district.
Mr. MacLeod suggested to add to non-residential uses. Remove that last sentence
from accessory and add to the table.
Alderman Mosteller how are docks identified as principal or accessory. Page 3-
25 Docks, boats and tugboats.
Water transportations are not allowed in the open space district.
The consensus of the Board was to keep the last sentence as is on page 3-25.
Page 3-94 (D ) Lighting and applicability.
Alderman Sharkey clarified new development should conform to new ordinance .
Consensus of the Board was to exempt or strike thru redevelopment, additions or
changes of use do not trigger applicability.
Mr. MacLeod clarified overhead structure restricted at 50 ft height versus 15
‘. Mr. MacLeod said it was conformed to be more pedestrian friendly.
Alderman Sharkey said the short lights are a nuisance. She recommended to add
clause that can’t exceed a certain height or lower than a certain height.
Alderman Allen clarified that one-or two-family residential exempt, but major
subdivision would have to comply?
Mr. MacLeod’s recommendation nothing higher than 40 feet and add more detail
later time with a lighting policy.
Wes said would apply to all new development etc.… change for use would not
apply.
Alderman Allen asked if there was a lighting plan committee. Allen requested to
make sure the policy is being reviewed. Lighting could remain unless new
construction or bulb replacement it would remain the same.
Add clause nothing more than 40’ questioned Mr. MacLeod.
Alderman Mosteller recommended to add pathway lights up to maximum 15’.
Alderman Davis asked what the maximum height is for streetlights? Mr. MacLeod
said up to 40’.
Alderman Spencer stated all new underground utilities would adapt to the new
ordinance Adjustment to the ideal but cannot be above 15’.
All existing within 50 feet would be grandfathered in or otherwise there would
need to be more compliance updates.
Mr. MacLeod leave language as is and make lighting maximum at 40 ‘.
Alderman Allen suggested to leaves as is until study is completed on the
illumination policy. Consensus of the Board to leave as is.
Mr. Macleod applicable change would be included.
Alderman Sharkey stated temperature and color of the lighting should also be
included.
Alderman Mosteller states that we pay BEMC we can make them be whatever we want
them to be and whatever is existing will be grandfathered in. She stated it
will only pertain all new construction, additions , redevelopments but change
of use would not apply.
Alderman Spencer stated the main roads have maximum 4K and side/private roads
maximum 3K and asks the state to regulate with a consistency for the City.
Alderman Allen confirmed leave language as is and have lighting committee
policy included too. Alderman Mosteller stated a policy is in the works but has
not completed.
The consensus of the Board was to leave the language as is for now, but
Alderman Sharkey recommended the color and height be implemented for
applicability.
New development or redevelopment as 3k add language in #4 add clause to
spotlight prohibited thru the city.
Alderman Allen stated to add definition of spotlight.
Motion by Mayor Pro Tem to remove redevelopment addition from one (1) and add
four (4 ) spotlight prohibited thru the City, the light source color
temperature for outdoor lighting shall not exceed 3,000 degrees Kelvin, second
by Alderman Davis. Unanimous vote.
Page 3-104
Alderman Allen asked if buffers are required between commercial and residential
lots?
Mr. MacLeod said no setbacks set in BD. Mr. MacLeod said there was a lot of
discussion with the Planning Board about the width of the lots. Mr. MacLeod
said could add back a buffer clause, but it was the consensus of the Planning
Board to remove so as not to frustrate the developer with the setback
conflicts.
Alderman Allen asked if setback requirements between commercial and residential
adjacent and add buffer. Mr. MacLeod will add clause for 10 ft buffer in BD but
not in CBD , R-10 R-20 or HC. Everything district but CBD
Mr. Macleod said HC already has clause.
Alderman Allen add clause for 10 ft buffer for 10 ft type A in residential. R-
10, R-20 ,MF and open space.
Chairman Tish Hatem page 3-99 typos second column prickly ash capital S and
crockery remove capital H.
Alderman Mosteller looking at other ordinance on #4 add signs be lighted on
level of availability.
Signs should be redeveloped for nighttime usage.
Policy discussion remove after hours of competition. Alderman Allen no
exemptions create clutter. Alderman Mosteller add distraction to motorist. Keep
language as is.
Page 3-113
Alderman Lombardi no sign maintenance of the sign restored back as in original.
Mr. MacLeod must remain as the same language. Must be restored to original
conditional. Alderman Spencer clarified a change of use requires new sign
permit. Minor changes no permit is required.
Alderman Allen suggested to remove “first maintain” in signs. He stated it is
conflicting language with needing a sign permit. Mr. MacLeod said C has
provisions for this.
Page 3-118
Mr. MacLeod stated this does not need permit for structural changes.
Alderman Sharkey stated we should set a goal to hire an engineer and update
stormwater procedures and policies. Mr. Llyod said that the Planning Board
agreed that stormwater needs to be restructured by a professional engineer.
Alderman Sharkey if asked if the City is more stringent than the state. Mr.
Lloyd said yes, the City has more restrictions than the State.
Manager Hargrove stated that a stormwater plan is being addressed with a
licensed engineer with a per cue funding as well.
Break at 3:15 pm.
Call back to order 3:31 pm.
Alderman Lombardi 4-8 Materials comment: Wes explained refer UDO department
standards and a strict construction, the reason they are in are because the
city needs to proceed with the standards, and they are more stringent, and it
will better be standing of any bet service . for new standards and not only
just the already existing,
Lombardi 9. A #3 should not be the same cost and not the same base cost and
should be different. Page 4-5 C Alderman Lombardi (page 4 - . 80% is more
enough than that the state.
Alderman Lombardi just 2% base count.
Mr. Macleod stated that in his position city public services and the developer
take that responsibility for the roads. The builder will accept the
responsibility before CO.
Bonds are no longer are accepted. Street repairs are in the City Ordinance not
included in the UDO.
Alderman Allen recommended add clause to add up to public service approval
before competition.
Alderman Davis recommended establishing a committee to help improve the
situation. Alderman Allen suggested to allow staff and/or hiring an experienced
engineer to ensure proper procedures and requirements are being met.
Alderman Sharkey agreed with 80 KW 4-8 .
1973 Alderman Lombardi referred to something different. Mr. MacLeod stated the
federal clean water act. Mr. MacLeod stated that the original adoption of the
stormwater regulations and requirements matter. Everyone must comply with the
stormwater requirements. Not the date just the statutory law mandated.
Not list the annual of the DOT suggested Alderman Lombardi just to refer to
section? Mr. Macleod said page 4-7 B1 must comply with the regulations of the
state. Recommended to leave as is and Alderman Allen said it would make it
easier to track the date. Leave as is. Unanimous vote.
Alderman Lombardi stated having a stormwater engineer will be great for the
development of each project and site of the development and with review by the
state of the site and approve the status on the project.
Mr. MacLeod suggested that inspections and procedures are not perfect, when
intrastate is accepts a liability is accepted want to ensure the standard are
up to use and up to standards. Difficult for smaller jurisdictions but working
on incorporating into the policies page 4-5.
Table of Contents will be updated.
Alderman Allen page 3-39 asked what line infrastructure will be in.
Definition comment parks and recreational use : Alderman Mosteller wanted the
language to be clarified. She said so the wording will not be confused with
open space, and parks.
Page 8-30. Appendix B*
Chairman Tish Hatem change Conditional to Special Use permit ( change special
use permit)
Mr. MacLeod and Mr. Llyod recommended to take out the appendix and add it to
the website. Mr. MacLeod stated A remain B will remain in the UDO. All remained
items will be posted on the website.
Recommendation for setting the next public hearing in 2 weeks. Gives pubic
notice 25 days.
The Board of Alderman agreed revisions by 8/17. Advertising on 19 th and have
next Public Hearing on 8/31 at 6:00 PM
The Board of Aldermen thanked Mr. MacLeod, Staff and the Planning Board for
their time and dedication to the long process.
Mayor, Joseph P. Hatem
         Clerk, Tanya Shannon
AUGUST 13, 2020
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING AUGUST 13, 2020
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
Present:   Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor Pro Tem Karen Mosteller, Alderman Lowe
Davis, Marc Spencer, Thomas Lombardi, Lora Sharkey, and John Allen.
Staff Present:   Gordon Hargrove, City Manager
         Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
         Deputy City Clerk, Tanya Shannon
         Thomas Lloyd, City Planner
         Heather Hemphill, Director Parks and Recreation
         Tom Stanley, Public Services Assistant Director
         David Fox Pubic Services Director
         Kate Marshall, Codes Enforcement
         Charles Drew, Fire Department Chief
         Todd Coring, Police Department Chief
         Randy Jones, Public information Officer
         Lisa Anderson, Public Videographer.
A)   Call to order
by Mayor Joseph P. Hatem at 6:00 P.M.
B)   Invocation
was led by Pastor Gene Tomlinson.
C)   The Pledge of Allegiance
was led by Mayor Joseph P. Hatem.
Mayor Hatem addressed the City of Southport and thanked the City Manager and
Staff for their dedication of protecting and restoring the City after Hurricane
Isaias’s. Mayor Hatem stated he and City Manager Hargrove met with N.C.
Governor Roy Cooper on August 6, 2020 and appreciated the assistance from
local, state, and federal government.
City Manager Hargrove also thanked the Mayor, The Board of Aldermen, City
Staff, Emergency Response Teams ,Public Works and The Public Information
Officers for the quick response and updates on the restoring of the City
repairs. Mr. Hargrove also thanked the extending territories that responded to
assistance with helping the citizens with additional services.
D)   Public Comment:
   1.   Jennifer Fontaine: 5223 Shipmast Way. Recommendation to consider the
permeable space that absorbs water and the future of “”mother nature”. Consider
repairs of infrastructure, underline power lines, and road repairs before the
continuation of more development. She states to consider against filling in the
marsh lands and impermeable spaces for development that has a place for its
existence. She thanked the Board and Staff for the work that they are trying to
accomplish to preserve the Heritage of Southport. 
   2.   Tish Hatem, 610 W. Brown Street wishes to express gratitude to the
Public Works department that provided clean up to the Northwood prior to the
burial Beck Howard’s burial service and post Hurricane Isaias. She is grateful
and appreciative of the Staff that took respect to preserve the heritage of our
ancestors.
E)   Motion to approve the agenda
by Alderman Allen with amendment to item #11 to add reappointment to two City
ETJ Members of the Planning Board, Scott Jones and Donnie Joyner with approval
by the Brunswick County Board of commissioners, second by Alderman Sharkey.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
F)   Motion to appointment
Deputy Clerk Tanya Shannon to City Clerk by Alderman Lowe Davis, second by
Alderman Marc Spencer. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Swearing in Oath of Office for City Clerk Tanya Shannon by Mayor Joseph P.
Hatem.
   1.   Motion to approve the Minutes for the July 9, 2020 regular meeting by
Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller, second by Alderman Lombardi. Unanimous vote; motion
carried.
   2.   Update on the Southport Weather Tower
      Mayor Joseph P. Hatem gave an update on the Weather Tower. He stated that
he some materials from the original tower will be kept and placed in the Museum
to view as part of the heritage of the City. The North Carolina Department of
Natural and Cultural Resources and State Historic Preservation Office approved
the replacement of the destroyed Tower, Fort Johnston Southport Museum,
Southport Brunswick County. GS 20-0713. The Recreation Advisory and Chairman
Scott Jones letter submitted below recommended approval of Stature Engineering
to restore the Weather Tower. Funds will be appropriated from Private Donations
and Policy Insurance on the tower.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2256.png]
      Motion to approve Stature Engineering for the replacement of the
Southport Weather Tower by Alderman Davis, and Second by Alderman Lombardi.
Unanimous vote motion carried.
   3.   2020 Contract and Approval 2019 Audit Report by Finance Director
Melanie Trexler and representative Stuart Hill with Thompson, Price, Scott,
Adams & Co. Project report was submitted to the Board of Aldermen.
      Mr. Hill gave a brief overview of the June 2019 audit report. The audit
was submitted to the LGC (Local Government commission) on July 29th and saw no
reason for any concerns.
   4.   Motion to approve the 2019 amended contract and renewal of the 2020
Audit Contact with Thompson, Price, Scott, Adams & Co; by Alderman Allen second
by Alderman Davis. Unanimous vote motion carried.
   5.   Mayor Pro Tem would like to thank Ms. Daphne Green who resigned from
the Planning Board recently and made recommendation to alternate MS. Maureen
Meehan to Full City Seat Member, second by Alderman Sharkey. Unanimous vote;
motion carried.
      Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller also made motion to consider reappoint of the ETJ
members Donnie Joyner and Scott Jones to County commissioners for the City ETJ
members, second by Alderman Lombardi. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
      Alderman Lombardi stated the Mr. Matt Green resigned from the Zoning
Board of Adjustments and thanked him for his service. He also stated that the
Zoning Board of Adjustments is accepting applications for 1 City Member and 2
ETJJ appointment. Motion by Alderman Lombardi to appoint Mr. Josh Clin McGee to
full City Member, second by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller. Unanimous vote; motion
carried .
   6.   Tom Stanley Public Services Assistant Director addressed the Board for
recommendation of the 274 Group for approval of contract of the Goldenleaf 2020
Howe Street Sewer Replacement Project. Mr. Stanley said the bids were open on
July 9, 2020. Mr. Stanley said they received (5) bids . The City Engineering
Mr. Phil Norris recommend the Group 274 as the qualified bidder (that came in
as around $1.596,000,00). The Budget is a little over $1,000,000,00, and Mr.
Allen confirmed that the additional funds will be appropriated from the water
and sewer fund. Ms. Trexler said it comes from capital improvements for water
and sewer.
      Motion to approve the budget amendment By Alderman Allen, second by Mayor
Pro Tem Mosteller. Unanimous vote motion carried.
      A Motion to award the contract for the 2020 Howe Street Sewer Replacement
Project to 274 Construction Group and to authorize the Mayor or Manager to
execute the contract was made by Alderman Allen, seconded by Alderman Sharkey.
      Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Motion to go into closed session for N.C. G.S. § 143-318.11. (3) To consult
with an attorney employed or retained by the public body in order to preserve
the attorney-client privilege between the attorney and the public body, which
privilege is hereby acknowledged. General policy matters may not be discussed
in a closed session and nothing herein shall be construed to permit a public
body to close a meeting that otherwise would be open merely because an attorney
employed or retained by the public body is a participant. The public body may
consider and give instructions to an attorney concerning the handling or
settlement of a claim, judicial action, mediation, arbitration, or
administrative procedure. If the public body has approved or considered a
settlement, other than a malpractice settlement by or on behalf of a hospital,
in closed session, the terms of that settlement shall be reported to the public
body and entered into its minutes as soon as possible within a reasonable time
after the settlement is concluded by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller, second by
Alderman Sharkey.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Recess for closed session at 7:15
Board Present: Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor Pro Tem Karen Mosteller, Alderman
Lora Sharkey, Marc Spencer, Thomas Lombardi, and John Allen.
Staff Present: Attorney Mike Isenberg, City Manager Gordon Hargrove, City
Planner Thomas Lloyd, Clerk Tanya Shannon.
Other: Attorney Gray Styers.
Motion to adjourn closed session by Alderman Sharkey, second by Mayor Pro Tem
Mosteller. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Motion to return to open session at 8:00 P.M. by Mayor Pro Tem Karen Mosteller,
second by Alderman Lombardi. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Committee Reports
   •   Mayor Pro Tem Karen Mosteller thanked the Planning Board, Staff, and
Senior Planner Mr. Wes MacLeod for the Cape Fear Council of Government for
their dedication and service on the revisions and updates on the United
Development of Ordinance. She announced the next Public Hearing will be on
August 31, 2020.
   •   Alderman Thomas Lombardi and Liaison for the Beautification Committee
requested condolence for the family of Nick Kern’s passing. Also, he stated the
Beautification Committee is accepting applications for new members.
   •   Alderman Lowe Davis Forestry Committee have changed the bylaws.
to allow for the trees in the right of ways and piers to be removed in deemed
necessary.
   •   City Manager Gordon Hargrove gave an update on the storm debris pickup
and stated there will be two sweeps thru the City to remove Debris.
   •   Mayor Joseph P. Hatem thanked the City Manager, Staff, and the Citizens
of Southport for their dedication to the restoration of the City of Southport
after Hurricane Isaias.
   •   Alderman Allen wanted to make comment on the Indigo Plantation
Development as stated:” I’d like to start by addressing Project Indigo. I want
to make sure everyone understands that the owners have a right to develop their
land, withing the confines of our ordinances, and the City does not have the to
simply say nothing can be built there. While there are obviously some positives
to having the land remain undeveloped, that is not a reasonable expectation,
simply put the land will be developed. What the city can do is create the best
possible development outcome of the entire city of Southport, and that is what
I am committed to do.
One misconceptions about Project Indigo is that it has been under review by the
City for some time. This is not correct. The project came to my attention on
Friday July 5th when I received the agenda packet for our meeting on July 11th.
The developer has not submitted a development application to the City, and no
steps have been taken towards consideration, much less approval, of the
project. The preliminary information that the developer presented at our July
meeting has been posted on the City’s website so that all citizens can see it.
We all have the same information. The consideration of this project will be
done thoughtfully, publicly, and in the accordance with the requirements of our
UDO and the public will have multiple opportunities to inform themselves of the
details of the project and provide their input.
In regard to the City’s response to the Project Indigo, I propose that we hire
a consultant to help the City analyze and evaluate the project including
potential issues such as the impact on the City services, infrastructure and
conduct an impact analysis. I have spoken about this to the City Manager, Staff
and some of my fellow Aldermen, and the response has been positive. I believe
this will help us create a better outcome and I hope we will do this,
Moving on the recent storm as we experienced. I’d like to commend and thank the
City Manager, Police chief and Fire Chief, as well as our employees fir their
hard work and excellent response to the storm. There is obviously a lot of work
left to do, but I know it will be handled in the same professional
conscientious manner.”
Announcements: Information on the proposed Indigo Plantation Development
Project is posted on the website. Also, the next UDO Board of Aldermen and
Planning Board Joint Meeting will be on August 31, 2020.
There being no further business, questions , or concerns. Motion to adjourn by
Mayor Pro Tem Karen Mosteller, second by Alderman Lowe Davis. Unanimous Vote;
motion carried.
Adjournment at approximately 8:30 P.M.
                     ________________________________
                     Mayor, Joseph P. Hatem
___________________________________
Attest: Clerk, Tanya Shannon
AUGUST 31, 2020
SPECIAL MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN AND PLANNING BOARD SPECIAL MEETING
COMMUNITY BUILDING                   AUGUST 31, 2020
223 E. BAY STREET                    SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2219_1536x1382.jpg]
AUGUST 31, 2020 6:05 P.M.
Present:   Mayor Joseph P. Hatem ,Mayor Pro Tem Karen Mosteller, Aldermen John
Allen, Marc Spencer, Lora Sharkey, Lowe Davis, and Thomas Lombardi.
Planning Board   Chairman Tish Hatem, Rich Bandera, Will Hewett, and
Dick Sloan.
Members Present:
Staff:   City Manager, Gordon Hargrove City Planner, Thomas Llyod Building
Inspector , Wayne Strickland Tourism Director, Randy Jones Public Information
Officer, Lisa Anderson Clerk, Tanya Shannon
Other:   Senior Planner Cape Fear Council of Government, Wes MacLeod
Call to Order: Mayor Joseph P. Hatem called the UDO Special Meeting to order at
6:05 p.m.
The Invocation was led by Alderman Lowe Davis.
Mayor Hatem led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
Approval of the Agenda by Alderman Thomas Lombardi, second by Mayor Pro Tem
Karen Mosteller. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Public Comment:
Greg Mitchell; 314 Willis Drive. He has concerns regarding approval for an
accessory dwelling. He questions why a single accessory structure can be up to
800 sf, but if it is built over a garage it can only be 530 sf. in the existing
footprint. He stated that it would be difficult to add space over that 530-sf
footprint. He would like to know if that included an overhang, porch or stairs.
He asked for consideration from the Board not to limit the amount of space
buildable over a garage to such a low square footage.
Letter read by City Clerk; Tanya Shannon submitted by Kathy Cabral; 308 W. West
St. as followed:
To Our Elected Officials:
The UDO is the overarching document that dictates development in Southport and
will drive the character of the town in the future. From what I can see, the
UDO was last updated 10+ years ago and will not likely see another update for
another 10+ years.
Because of those 2 points, it is imperative that nothing in the approved UDO
creates “unintended consequences” as future development is considered for
Southport. I do not believe people will object to development, but it should be
responsible development. It should reflect the wishes of the citizens of
Southport and should be emblematic of the vision for the future of our city. It
should also reflect our size, our infrastructure limitations and the city’s
financial condition.
I refer you to Section 2.11 B 2 of the August 10, 2020 draft UDO which deals
with conditional zoning. How is “nonresidential zoning district” defined? Does
it include open space? Does it include PUDs? I think it is important that the
term be very clearly defined in the document. I believe both Open Space and
PUDs should be excluded from the definition of a non-residential zoning
district. I believe this would completely eliminate the prospect of a
conditional zoning change to be allowed for a PUD and allow the citizens of
Southport to have more input on future development in the town. In a
circumstance like Project Indigo, the strict definition of a non-residential
zoning district would limit the developers from getting the property rezoned
without public comment. Given the recent press in the Wilmington Business News,
it is important that the language in the UDO is amended.
It is no secret that the 211 corridor is facing development on a dramatic scale
with those residents looking. To Southport as their “urban center”. This will
put additional strain on our infrastructure and community. I am seeking a
commitment from the Alderman to seriously consider including a clear-cut
definition to “non-residential zoning district” to further protect our city and
maintain responsible development in Southport. This is our last best chance to
preserve the heart and soul of the city that we care for so deeply.
Thank you.
Mayor Hatem introduced Senior Planner from the Cape Fear Council of Government,
Mr. Wes MacLeod and City Planner, Mr. Thomas Lloyd .
Discussion on off-street parking regulations page 3-89 . Mr. MacLeod gave an
overview of the off-street parking ratios. He said if there is new construction
or change of use of the business there are certain parking requirements that
need to be met. He said depending on the location in the City there are
constraints with the off-street parking. He said in all zoning districts except
BD and CBD all the parking is unchanged. He said the proposed standard is if
there is a change of use no additional parking will be required. But if an
applicant wants to expand the usage area of the building by 25% then additional
parking will be required. He also said that if a residential use is being
obtained in the CBD or BD the applicant will need to provide parking, as well
as new construction on a vacant lot.
Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller stated that she understands the conflict with off-
street parking in the CBD. She stated the City has buildings that need to be
protected and that it why the 25 % increase of usage requires additional
parking. She recommended to extend the parking overlay
district further down Howe St; and leave
the BD as is. She felt like this was more of zoning issue.
Alderman Allen asked if there would be an issue with extending Parking
Overlay District.
Mr. Lloyd said it could be done thru a separate process of a Zoning Map
Amendment. He said potentially it could be unfavorable to certain properties.
Mr. MacLeod said that in the current UDO there are many business that operating
without following the off-street parking guidelines. However, it has not been
enforced in certain parcels since there some small lots that would be unable to
follow the current guidelines. He said the goal is to update the UDO for off-
street parking to help allow businesses to continue to operate.
Alderman Allen stated that in the current UDO there zero setbacks, and he said
the Planning Board agreed that there was a need and value for setting setbacks
between BD and adjoining residential properties. Mr. Llyod said rezoning would
also affect the buffer yard standards and the uses of the properties.
Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller wanted to clarify that in BD which includes the Yacht
Basin area, no additional parking is required unless expanding 25% or more. She
stated the proposed draft offers expansion up to 100 sf versus the current
measurement of parking is for a four-top table in a restaurant. She said the
proposed revision is essentially more forgiving in the Yacht Basin BD for
required parking.
Alderman Allen asked what the definition of redevelopment is: Redevelopment
definition was read by Mr. MacLeod as : “ Any combination of repairs,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement of a structure
or lot, including demolition and replacement of a structure, taking place
during any one-year period. Redevelopment may also be associated with a change
of use.”
Alderman asked where does the 25 % increase of space come from. Mr. MacLeod
said it was a calculation that was proposed bit it could be more or less.
Alderman Davis asked Alderman Allen if he would like to see the 25% increased
or decreased. Alderman Allen stated possibly less. He stated the majority of
the businesses currently do not have the ability to expand currently.
Alderman Spencer clarified that this included 25% of the gross area, including
outdoor and expanding up would trigger additional parking requirements. Mr.
MacLeod confirmed.
Mayor Hatem stated he would like to see City remain vibrant and safe by keeping
the parking requirements as proposed in the revised UDO. He said he understands
the challenges that some businesses have with parking but would like to
encourage the community to continue to find a safe and legal parking space and
walk around the CBD and BD area.
Alderman Allen proposed modifying the requirements that trigger additional
parking in CBD and BD reduced to 10% increase of usage.
Mayor Pro Tem stated that the purpose of the percentage of expansion that
requires more parking was to keep the existing structures on scale. She said it
would be unfortunate to see a lot of the old buildings torn down and rebuilt
out of proportion to the area.
Planning Board member Mr. Rich Bandera made comment that part of the reasoning
of the Planning Boards decision to make the trigger 25 % was because currently
restaurants are taking advantage of the outdoor space, especially during the
COVID-19 pandemic. He felt that reducing the percentage to 10% would be too low
because of the business utilizing more space outdoors. He also said that the
Building Occupancy requirements from a safety point and how many occupants can
be allowed into the building should also be considered when deciding on the
parking ratio in the CBD and BD.
Alderman Sharkey stated she felt keeping the percentage at 25% was reasonable
for now without having any data to prove otherwise. She said the goal is to
have an occupied CBD and BD.
Mayor Pro Tem wanted to clarify that if the space was available a business
could expand by 25 % or less every year without having to provide additional
parking. Mr. MacLeod confirmed and stated that this formula is close to what is
currently being utilized for parking in the CBD and BD area.
Mayor Hatem asked how parking is proposed in the revised UDO where the Yacht
Basin Eatery used to be, that is now being redeveloped. Mr. Llyod said the
parking will remain as it was before redevelopment and the building permit has
already been issued. Mr. Lloyd said the owner of this parcel also owns Fishy
Fishy restaurant and has the allocated parking requirements for both businesses
including the boat slips.
Motion was made by Alderman Sharkey to revise the proposed draft table 3.4
Minimum Off- Street Parking Spaces Required: Change of Use of Redevelopment in
the CBD and BD. “ A change of use or redevelopment whereby the floor area of
the building is not expanded by greater than 15%.” Second by Alderman Davis.
Mayor Pro Tem asked if this also included the second part of the table for
Residential Uses.
Mr. Macleod stated that 15% would include the entire table for Minimum Off-
Street Parking Spaces Required including Residential Uses.
Motion by Alderman Sharkey to amend her motion to state the revision of Table
3.4 to include the entire table that includes Residential Uses “ by greater
than 15%”. Second by Alderman Davis.
Alderman Spencer commented that as a realtor he is worried about putting too
many restrictions on the growth of future redevelopment for some businesses. He
said for some businesses the only way to expand is up. He said this revision
will burden some owners who would be unable to comply with the requirements in
order to have future growth.
Alderman Sharkey stated after hearing the conversation and what the Planners
and the Planning Board recommended for parking requirements in the CBD and BD,
she stated she may now disagree with her motion.
Mr. Bandera commented that he sees no problem with 15 % expansion for indoor
space, but for outdoor space thinks it should be 25 % to allow for more
flexibility. He said enforcement will be a challenge because of the amount of
businesses that are trying to sustain.
Mayor Hatem commented that it will take businesses currently operating years to
recover from the loss due to COVID-19. He feels that outdoor space is important
to help businesses to continue to recover and strive during this
time especially.
Mr. Macleod said this would include the outdoor usable area.
Alderman Allen stated that this parking provision of 15 % would only be for
redevelopment or change of use or expansion of greater than 15%. He reiterated
that the City is still allowing the same provisions to utilize outdoor space
for businesses unless the business is expanding more than 15% indoors
or outdoors.
Mayor Hatem asked for a vote for a motion on the table. Aye: Mayor Pro Tem
Mosteller, Alderman Allen, Alderman Lombardi, Alderman Davis. Nay: Alderman
Spencer and Alderman Sharkey. 4-2. Motion carried.
Alderman Lombardi stated that the City should be researching ways to provide
parking especially in downtown ( CBD) Southport to help support the businesses
and the community to thrive and Alderman Spencer concurred.
Alderman Spencer wanted to address the question and concerns raised in Public
Comment by Mr. Greg Mitchell. Mr. MacLeod stated that his understanding is the
footprint of the accessory structure cannot be over 530 sf. Mr. Lloyd said the
footprint originates from the setback requirements.
Alderman Allen clarified for accessory uses the discussion is two separate
issues. One is total sf of the total accessory structure and the other is the
footprint existing structure (or garage). He states you can not have an
existing footprint over 800 sf for an accessory structure. He stated he
believed the intent is that a property owner cannot have a two (2 )story
accessory storage “Lording” over the neighbor’s property.
Planning Board Member Mr. Bandera commented that reason for putting a cap on
the accessory structure size for setback limitations is if there is a primary
structure over 5,000 sf than a cap should be maintained for
allocation services.
Jennifer Fontaine; 5223 Shipmast Way; made a public comment that appreciated
the attention made to open and green space and making the small community very
natural and livable. However, she is concerned about the density requirements
for new development requirements. She would like the setbacks to remain the
same or increased slightly. She understands that prohibits development, but the
City should consider preserving the trees and wetlands.
Mayor Hatem asked Mr. Mitchell if his concern was answered. Mr. Mitchell stated
that he is now clear on the situation.
Mr. Lloyd said the next comment was submitted by Alderman Sharkey regarding
Light Source 3.16 ( C) on page 3-94. Alderman Sharkey proposing change in item
1. (C) to allow for LED lighting in addition to as stated and allow for energy
conservation as stated:
Incandescent, florescent, metal halide, light emitting diodes (LED), fiber
optics, or color corrected high-pressure sodium are permitted. The UDO
Administrator shall have the authority to deny use of particular lamps based on
the color spectrum emitted or the lamp brightness. Non color corrected high
pressure sodium lamps are prohibited.
The same light source type must be used for the same or similar types
of lighting on any one site throughout any development.
The light source color temperature for outdoor lighting shall not exceed 3,000
degrees Kelvin.
Motion to approve revised language submitted by Alderman Sharkey, second by
Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Mr. Llyod identified a correction on page 2-9 B (2) Board of Adjustment
appointment. He said to change to three-year terms instead of two-year terms to
keep consist with the Planning Board term appointments.
Motion to approve to 3-year term for Board of Adjustments by Alderman Allen,
second by Alderman Davis. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Mr. Lloyd wanted to clarify that a new term/ definition for Transitional
Housing Facility was added and is stated:
“Transitional Housing Facility. A facility configured as a multifamily
development but operated and funded by a nonprofit, charitable, religious, or
governmental organization to provide temporary housing and appropriate
supportive services to families or individuals to facilitate movement to
independent living over a 3 to 24-month period. A transitional housing facility
may provide social services, counseling, and other programs to assist residents
in the transition to permanent housing This classification shall not be
construed to include uses licensed or supervised by any federal, state, or
county health/welfare agency, such as group homes, halfway houses, boarding
homes for children, and convalescent nursing homes.” Mr. Lloyd said that it
would be added as use the table of uses and adding as special use in the OI
district with supplemental standards.
Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller recommended to add on page 2-36 (B) PUD and open space
because it is not residential. Shall read as follows: Applications and
proposals for conditional zoning approval shall only be considered within a
nonresidential zoning district. All proposals for a conditional zoning
application must abide by the uses and the dimensional standards required by
the underlying base zoning district for which the proposal is located. No
conditional zoning proposals shall be considered within the Open Space or PUD
zoning district. The Board agreed.
Announcements: The next meeting for Public hearing after the incorporated
changes are made is scheduled for Wednesday September 23, 2020 at the Community
Building at 6:00 P.M.
Mayor Hatem thanked the Planning Board, Mr. MacLeod and Staff for their
dedication to the long process.
There being no further business or announcements motion to adjourn by Alderman
Lombardi, second by Alderman Davis. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Adjourned at approximately 7:37 P.M.
Mayor, Joseph P. Hatem
Attest: Clerk, Tanya Shannon
SEPTEMBER 10, 2020
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING SEPTEMBER 10, 2020
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
Present:    Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor Pro Tem Karen Mosteller, Aldermen Lowe
Davis, Marc Spencer, Thomas Lombardi, Lora Sharkey and John Allen.
Staff Present:   Gordon Hargrove, City Manager
         Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
         City Clerk, Tanya Shannon
         Thomas Lloyd, City Planner
         Heather Hemphill, Director Parks and Recreation
         Tom Stanley, Public Services Assistant Director
         David Fox, Pubic Services Director
         Kate Marshall, Codes Enforcement
         Charles Drew, Fire Department Chief
         Todd Coring, Police Department Chief
         Randy Jones, Public information Officer
         Lisa Anderson, Public Videographer
         Scott Rogers, Finance Specialist
A)   Call to order by Mayor Joseph P. Hatem at 6:00 P.M.
Mayor Hatem gave remembrance to the heroes and the victims in honor of
September 11, 2001.
Moment of Silence for the loss of long-time resident and dentist Dr. Larry
Hemby.
B)   Invocation was led by Charles Drew
C)   The Pledge of Allegiance was led by Mayor Joseph P. Hatem
D)   Public Comment:
   1.   Ms. Bonnie Bray, Chairman of the Southport Beautification Committee,
and current Beautification Board Members gave special recognition for longtime
service to Ms. Marjorie Jones and recently deceased Mr. Nick Kern. Ms. Mary
Friend, Board member, accepted Mr. Kern’s certificate in his honor. Ms. Friend
was also specially recognized for her many years of dedication to the
Beautification Committee.
E)   Motion for approval of the agenda by Alderman Lombardi, second by Alderman
Sharkey.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
 
Consent Agenda
   1.   Motion to approve the Consent Agenda (items 1-3) by Alderman Davis with
the amendment on page 4 of the minutes under Committee Reports, comments made
by Alderman Lowe Davis, to strike “to allow for the trees in the right of ways
and piers to be removed if deemed necessary.” Second by Alderman Spencer.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   2.   Resolution for Setting Date of Public Hearing in Question of Annexation
Pursuant to N.C. G.S. 160 A-31: 116 E. 13th Street. (City Planner Lloyd)
resolution only sets date of public hearing.
   3.   Recognition of Constitution Week, September 17-23rd . (Proclamation by
Mayor Joseph P. Hatem).
Proclamation
WHEREAS, September 17, 2020 marks the two hundred thirty anniversary of the
drafting of the Constitutional of the United Stated of America by the
Constitutional Convention; and
WHEREAS; It is fitting and proper to accord official recognition to this
magnificent document and its memorable anniversary; and to the patriotic
celebrations which will commemorate the occasion; and
WHEREAS; Public 915 guarantees the issuing of a proclamation each year by the
President of the United States of America designating September 17t h through
September 23rd as Constitution Week,
NOW, THEREFORE, I, Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, by virtue of the authority in me as
Mayor of the City of Southport do hereby proclaim the week of September 17t h
through 23rd as:
CONSTITUTION WEEK
AND, ask our citizens to reaffirm the ideals of the Framers of the constitution
had in 1787 by vigilantly protecting the freedom guaranteed to us through this
guardian of our liberties, remember that lost rights may never be regained.
IN WITNESSS WHEREOF, I hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the
City of Southport to be affixed this 10th day of September of the year of our
Lord two thousand twenty.
                  Signed:   Mayor, Joseph P. Hatem
   4.   Special recognition of interim City Manager Chris May by the Board of
Aldermen and presentation of the key to the City by Mayor Joseph P. Hatem.
   5.   Salary Study presentation by Mr. Chris May. Mr. May stated the City
needed to review and compare salaries from other counties and communities to
get a comprehensive idea of what other salaries are relative to Southport. He
stated that in 2015 the City did a survey on job descriptions and a personnel
policy submitted by the NCLM and MAPS Group. Mr. May presented the Board with
the Salary Study and said it was important to keep competitive salaries to
ensure hiring and keeping quality employees. His recommendation was to take the
regional national average starting salary and align it with the pay scale that
shows each of the steps (how the employee progresses) and the grade (the
employees job placement and responsibilities). He explained it will be
difficult during budget time and he suggested that the City simply take what
the employee is making at that time and compare the grade on the Salary Study
and merge it up. He said the City would not be able to fully comprehend what
the Budget will be like in the Spring, but that the Board should highly
consider the goal of achieving comparable salaries and pay increases with
adjacent counties and cities that is predictable and fair.
   Mr. May thanked finance Director Melanie Trexler for her hard work with
assisting him with the Pay Salary Study.
   Alderman Allen clarified that the 2.5% merit increases are based on the
employees performance review. Mr. May said that is correct and the 2.5 % merit
raise would be the minimum pay increase for an employee. Alderman Allen asked
if the City also needed a regional maximum salary and does that mean that once
the employee has reached the maximum, they can no longer achieve a higher pay/
salary. Mr. May stated the employee must stay in service for at least 30 years,
but this study only goes to 20 years for comparison. He said the wage shift
must be coordinated with the experience and the time the person has been in
service. He stated 20 years would become the maximum pay/salary, but he
suggested to continue at least a 2.5 % merit increase for good service.
   Alderman Davis asked Mr. May to state why the salary study was needed. Mr.
May said there were a couple of positions that he felt needed a pay increase
and he felt it best to compare other wages from other counties. Alderman Davis
applauded Mr. May for the study and how this will help employees understand
their position wages and the potential increases they could achieve. Mr. May
also said merit raises are assumed but not guaranteed. The study is available
for the Public on the City’s website.
   6.   Mr. Lloyd stated that the Public Hearing for the Bonnet Way Annexation
Petition was not properly advertised in accordance with the N.C.G.S. § 160A -
31. Motion for the public hearing to be continued to the October 8th Board of
Aldermen regular meeting by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller, second by Alderman
Sharkey. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   7.   Request for approval of McGill and Associates for the engineering
contract for the Taylor Field Project by Parks and Recreation Director Heather
Hemphill. Ms. Hemphill explained that the City received several RFQ’s for the
project supported by the PARTF Grant. She said she met with City Manager
Hargrove and they went over the qualifications and felt McGill and Associates
were best experienced.
   Alderman Davis asked if there is going to be a dog park and if there is a
design plan that shows that. Ms. Hemphill said that part of the PARTF grant
included a design for a dog park (she said it will be built close to the
Cemetery), and she would provide an updated design plan to the State Port Pilot
and the City’s website for public review.
   Ms. Hemphill stated that approval of the contractor for the park is part of
Phase 1 and the completion of the first phase target date is September 2021.
This includes the dog park.
   Alderman Allen clarified that the City has budgeted for the construction of
the park and the development fees have not been changed since it was
introduced. Ms. Hemphill said the cost will remain the same as it was and has
been appropriately funded and does not require any additional funding.
   Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller gave appreciation to McGill and Associates for
working with the City to help engage the community on providing ideas,
specifications and design plans on what types of amenities the citizens would
like to see available in the new park.
   Alderman Allen made a motion to authorize City Manager Hargrove to enter
into the contract with McGill and Associates for the engineering work for
Taylor Field Park. Second by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller. Unanimous vote; motion
carried.
   8.   Presentation by Tonya Hilliard and Karen Holbrook regarding Parks and
Recreation summer camp STEM ( Science Technology, Engineering and Mathematics)
and Tennis Program.
   Parks and Recreation Director Hemphill said that (4 )four years ago this
program was developed to help keep kids active and their brain active even
while out of school. She said the program won the North Carolina National
Juniors Tennis Association Program of the year in 2019. Ms. Maureen Moore
presented a slide show of the various activities that kids can engage in while
participating in the program.
   Ms. Tonya Hilliard, President of the L.C. Outreach Project Inc., was
introduced by Director Hemphill. She said the program was named in memory of
her father Mr. Lorenzo Clemmons. The program gives an alternative to other
after school academic programs to focus on reading and math skills. The program
partnered with Southport Parks and Recreation in 2017 and Brunswick County
Tennis in 2018. She said other than learning academic skills they also get to
engage in other lessons such as chess, cooking , and tennis. She also said
another nonprofit organization “Computers for Kids” donated computers for
children to utilize while in the program. “Power Walking Ministries”, a
nonprofit organization, donated each child with a pair of tennis shoes. Ms.
Hilliard said they end the camp with a tennis carnival so that kids can show
off their newly learned skills. She said because of COVID-19 the number of
students that sign up for the program had declined.
   Ms. Karen Holbrook, member of the Brunswick County Tennis Association
introduced herself along with President Bob Cause, and Dawn Peeper, a longtime
volunteer. She gave an overview of the program by stating the BCTA is committed
to the promotion, growth, and development of tennis as an enjoyable, lifetime
sport that contributes to good health, character, and responsible citizenship.
The BCTA welcomes all people who play, watch, support, or enjoy the game of
tennis to its events, programs, membership, leadership, and activities on a
non-discriminatory basis. The BCTA recognizes that maintaining fiscal
responsibility and promoting the financial well-being of the BCTA are
indispensable to the ability of BCTA to pursue its mission. Ms. Holbrook said
they are grateful to be able to partner with Southport Parks and Recreation,
and the L.C. Outreach Project LLC and serve the community by bringing tennis
and education together.
   Alderman Sharkey asked how many participants are involved. President of the
Brunswick County Tennis Association, Mr. Bob Cause, stated usually around 40-50
kids, but this year because of COVID-19 they had to limit to 20.
   Alderman Davis asked what the ages of the children are. Mr. Cause said
between 5-13.
   Mr. Cause thanked Southport for their continuing support of the program.
   Ms. Maureen Moore (Cookie) presented plaques to L.C. Outreach LLC and the
Brunswick County Tennis Association for their outstanding service to the
Community.
   9.   Budget Amendment #3 presented by Financial Specialist, Scott Rogers. He
stated that a truck was damaged and needed replacement. He said that Insurance
had reimbursed the cost and he requested the approval by the Board to amend the
budget to appropriate the funds from the insurance reimbursement to this fiscal
year 2021 budget.
   Motion by Alderman Allen to approve Budget Amendment #3 , second by Mayor
Pro Tem Mosteller. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
 
Budget Amendment
Fiscal Year 2020-2021
Budget Amendment #03
WHEREAS, the City of Southport received insurance reimbursement for public
works storm damaged truck.
WHEREAS, the City needs to replace this truck and use the reimbursement for the
replacement
and;
WHEREAS, the budget ordinance for fiscal year 2020-2021 needs to be amended to
reflect the use of these funds;
WHEREAS, the Funds are available in the Water & Sewer Fund;
NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport, North Carolina that the annual budget ordinance for fiscal year
2020-2021 shall be amended as follows:
               Increase
Insurance Recovery
31-91-3839-0200         $27,750
Capital Expenditures
31-91-7130-5400         $27,750
Adopted by the Southport Board of Aldermen in regular session, September 10,
2020.
                     Mayor, Joseph P. Hatem
Attest: Tanya Shannon, Clerk
Committee Reports:
   ∙   Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller (Planning Board Liaison) expressed gratitude to
the Planning Board, City Planner Thomas Lloyd and Senior Planner Mr. Wes
MacLeod for countless hours of their time and talents on working to update and
revise the City’s current Unified Development Ordinance. She also wanted to
remind everyone that the revisions are posted on the City’s website for review
and the next Public Hearing regarding the UDO will be at the Community Building
on September 23rd at 6:00 P.M. for the public to ask questions, make comments
or express any concerns.
   ∙   Alderman Lombardi gave an update on the Beautification Committee. He
said six applicants were interviewed to fill five positions. Maria Lowther and
Rob Thatcher were appointed to full City seats. Lynne & Ken Geiman, and Karen
Pasquale were appointed to the ETJ seats. He said all available positions are
now filled. Officer positions will be voted on at the next meeting. He also
stated that Saturday September 5th was great turnout with 21 volunteers for
cleanup and thanked everyone for their participation. Also, as Board Liaison to
the Board of Adjustments, Alderman Lombardi announced the next meeting on
September 15th at 4:30 P.M. at the Community Building.
   ∙   Alderman Davis ( Liaison to the Forestry Committee) announced that
Bylaws were completed at the last meeting. She said the Forestry Committee
Members and volunteers have gone around town to inventory damaged trees and
inspect the trees that the Forestry Committee planted over the last 6- 10
years. She said all but two were doing well considering the effects of
Hurricane Isaias. She said many people have questioned her regarding the yellow
ribbon tied around the live oak in front of her house. She explained that with
the assistance of the Public Services Department the yellow ribbon symbolizes
that this tree needs attention to broken or dead limbs, but not to be cut down.
She also recommended a tutorial on YouTube called “Why trees die”, presented by
an Arborist.
Manager’s Report:
City Manager Hargrove said that the last day to bring the storm debris to side
of the road will be September 18th and he anticipated having an entire
community cleaned up by the second week in October. He also gave an update on
the Howe Street sidewalk project and said the City is waiting for a traffic
study to be completed. He said once that study is completed the project will
move forward. Manager Hargrove announced that Short Street will reverse
directions for in and out traffic flow that he hopes will help alleviate a lot
of the concerns by September 25th. He said the pedestrian corridor in the Yacht
Basin area should also be completed by the end of September.
Alderman Allen asked if Taylor Field was being used as temporary place to bring
storm debris and if so, will there be another location in the future for storm
debris once the new park is developed.
Manager Hargrove said that Taylor Field was currently being used as a stage for
yard debris and that Construction and other debris will be hauled directly to
Sampson County. He said the contractor is aware that the debris must be
completely removed by mid-October. Manager Hargrove also said that he is
looking into options for other storm debris staging sites like the 400 acres
outside of the City near Sunny Point.
Alderman Spencer asked the City Manager to clarify the process of the storm
debris pick up.
City Manager said the strategy is to pick up leaf and limb debris first which
will be a quicker process versus the CND ( construction and demolition) debris.
He explained the county is not accepting the CND debris and this will have to
be directly hauled to Sampson County which will take a little longer, but he
still anticipated having both jobs completed by mid-October. Alderman Spencer
questioned why the City could not participate in “ free week” by the county.
City Manager Hargrove said that it was for residents only and not for
municipalities.
Alderman Allen asked why Brunswick County is not accepting CND from their own
municipalities. City Manager Hargrove said that he has had many discussions
with the County Manager, and this is the decision that he could discuss with
him in more detail at a later time. Alderman Allen stated that he thought it
was ridiculous and unfair.
Mayors’ Comments:
Mayor Joseph P. Hatem thanked Public Services for a great job with Hurricane
clean up. He announced Southport’s Virtual Merchant Showcase is on the City
Website and he thanked Randy Jones, Tourism Director, Lisa Anderson, PIO, and
Sharon Venis, Southport Communication Specialist. Mayor Hatem also thanked the
Planning Board Members, Liaisons Alderman Allen and Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller,
Mr. MacLeod with the Caper Fear Council of Government, City Planner Thomas
Lloyd and Staff for their hard work on the UDO update. Mayor Hatem
congratulated Chief Todd Coring on Officer of the Year by the American Legion
Post. He also recognized Officer Wigmore who was a N.Y. City Police Officer
during the September 11th tragedy and his story is told in the State Port
Pilot. Mayor asked everyone to remember all those who were affected by
September 11th. He congratulated the State Port Pilot for achieving the Media
Outlet of the Year Award.
Staff Reports:
See in Agenda Packets.
Board Comment’s:  
Alderman Spencer appreciated the recognition of the loss of longtime resident
and dentist Dr. Larry Hemby and asked for prayers for his wife Linda and
daughter Dee Dee. He also applauded Chief Coring, Officer Wigmore, and all
First Responders. Alderman Spencer also stated that the City really needs to
address the parking issues around the City. He also wanted to thank “Southport
Cares” for the generosity to those in need. He thanked the program volunteers
for helping coach and guide children in a positive direction.
Alderman Sharkey also stated that she was appreciative of the high-quality
programs that the Southport Parks and Recreation Department and partnering
organizations have provided outstanding service to the Community. She also said
that she wanted to examine certain policies regarding solar energy billing and
mosquito control.
Alderman Allen suggested the Solar Energy Metering Savings Policy be directed
to the Rate Committee for further review. Alderman Sharkey said she would have
to discuss who is on the committee and how to proceed with developing a policy
with the Mayor.
Alderman Davis gave gratitude to Officer Jared Jeffrey for his quick response
to two fisherman on an unsafe dock. She was very concerned about the dangerous
condition of the dock and assumed that it may take a while before an officer
would arrive. She was pleasantly surprised that Officer Jeffrey arrived so fast
but also how diplomatically and efficiently he got the fisherman to vacate the
dock. Alderman Davis gave great appreciation to the Southport Police
Department.
Alderman Lombardi thanked Randy Jones, Lisa Anderson and Sharon Venis for their
hard work and dedication to the Virtual Merchant’s Showcase that helps support
local Restaurants and Businesses.
Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller expressed sincere gratitude to Jim and Ginger Harper
for the land (5 acres) that was generously donated to the City for Taylor Field
Park which allowed the City to use the value as matching funds for the N.C.
Parks and Recreation Trust Grant. She said the grant will completely fund the
first phase of the project (that includes the dog park). She concluded that on
the surface, the gift of land was worth twice the value of the donated
property. She said in reality the Harper’s gave the citizens of Southport
prized open space and a park that will forever be a part of our Community and
we are better for it and grateful for it.
There being no further business, questions , or concerns. Motion to adjourn by
Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller, second by Alderman Spencer. Unanimous Vote; motion
carried.
Adjournment at approximately 7:30 P.M.
 
Mayor, Joseph P. Hatem   
                     Attest: Clerk, Tanya Shannon
SEPTEMBER 21, 2020
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  SPECIAL MEETING
COMMUNITY BUILDING SEPTEMBER 21, 2020
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2222_1708x1567.jpg]
1:00 P.M.
Present:   Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor Pro Tem Karen Mosteller, Alderman Lowe
Davis, Marc Spencer, Thomas Lombardi, Lora Sharkey and John Allen.
Staff Present:   Gordon Hargrove, City Manager.
Mike Isenberg, City Attorney. City Clerk, Tanya Shannon.
Melanie Trexler, Finance Director David Fox, Public Services Director
Tom Stanley, Public Services Assistant Director Randy Jones, Tourism Director
Lisa Anderson, Public Information Officer Todd Coring, Police Chief
Call to order by Mayor Joseph P. Hatem at 1:10 P.M.
Moment of Silence in honor of Judge Ruth Bader Ginsburg.
The Invocation was led by Alderman Lowe Davis.
The Pledge of Allegiance was led by Mayor Joseph P. Hatem.
Motion to approve the agenda by Alderman Lombardi, second by Alderman Sharkey
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Agenda:
Motion to enter Closed Session pursuant to G.S. 143-318.11 (a) (3) to consult
with the city attorney to preserve the attorney-client privilege regarding a
proposed sewer service agreement with Brunswick County by Alderman Sharkey,
second by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Closed Session at 1:15 p.m.
Motion to return to Open Session by Alderman Spencer, second by Alderman Allen.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Open Session at 2:47 p.m.
Discussion and consideration of sewer service agreement with Brunswick County.
Mayor Hatem stated that there was no action taken in closed session. Motion by
Alderman Lombardi to give authorization to the City Manager, Gordon Hargrove
for negotiation of a sewer service agreement with Brunswick County, second by
Alderman Davis. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
There being no further business Alderman Allen made a motion to adjourn, second
by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Adjournment at approximately 2.51 P.M.
Mayor, Joseph P. Hatem
Attest: Clerk, Tanya Shannon
SEPTEMBER 23, 2020
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN AND PLANNING BOARD SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING                   SEPTEMBER 23, 2020
223 E. BAY STREET                    SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
September 23, 2020 6:00 P.M.
Present:    Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor Pro Tem Karen Mosteller, Aldermen Lora
Sharkey, Lowe Davis, Mark Spencer, John Allen, and Thomas Lombardi.
Planning Board       Tish Hatem, Dick Sloan, Maureen Meehan, Richard Bandera,
and Will Hewett.
Members Present:
Staff Present:      Gordon Hargrove, City Manager
Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
Thomas Lloyd, City Planner   
John Micheletto, Code Administrator
Tanya Shannon, Deputy Clerk   
Randy Jones, Tourism Director
Lisa Anderson, Public Information Officer
Other:         Wes MacLeod, Senior Planner Cape Fear Council of Government
Call to Order:   Mayor Hatem called the Meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
Invocation was led by Alderman Lowe Davis.
Mayor Hatem led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
Approval of the Agenda by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller, second by Alderman Lombardi.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Public Comment: None
Mayor Hatem thanked the Members of the Planning Board, City Planner Thomas
Lloyd, Staff, and Senior Planner Mr. Wes Macleod from the Cape Fear Council of
Government for their hard work on the process of the proposed Unified
Development Ordinance.
Alderman Sharkey asked why there was not more information about stormwater
guidelines. Mr. Macleod said that is more of an engineer and structural
process. He recommended that the City have a professional stormwater engineer
review and provide a study that would help provide specific guidelines to
designing and maintaining stormwater approval.
E. Comprehensive Plan page 2-7 Confusing wording stated Alderman Sharkey.
Recommendation by Alderman Sharkey that the comprehensive plan with the
accompanying maps, charts and descriptive matter, shall be the Planning Board’s
recommendation.
Questions from concerning Article 2: Article 2 Planning Board powers and duties
concerns from Alderman Sharkey. Page 2-4.
13. Change language. To engage, communicate and inform, the planning board may
publish and distribute copies of planning board recommendations for public
consumption and may utilize other methods of communication as appropriate in
accordance with the City of Southport Personnel Policy Article V. section 13.
Technology/Social Media Policy.
Alderman Sharkey recommended looking at the broader picture for communications
and review the policies and procedures for what information is posted on social
media.
City Manager Mr. Hargrove stated that a new social media policy is in the
process and it is going to be consistent with a charge of one commission to
provide the information to all media platforms after proper approval.
Alderman Allen wanted to clarify that this would also be incorporated into the
personnel policy. City Manager Hargrove stated that social media policy would
go in the personnel policy and work together with the expectations of
consistent information.
Alderman Davis felt that a social media policy should be separate from the
personnel policy. She recommended to create separate language and polices
strictly for social media.
Mr. Macleod said that the language in this section could be more specific with
who and how the information is received and distributed.
Alderman Allen recommended removing this section in Article 2 (13) page 2-4. He
said this is already public information. It was the consensus of the Aldermen
to remove this section.
Alderman Sharkey recommended to remove this item. This is same language that
was removed (section 3-10) by Board of Aldermen under legal recommendation.
This language is absent from NC GS 160D. and is not required under NC 160A-265.
Alderman Sharkey recommended to provide transparency on expenditures, add under
powers and duties:
The planning board shall, in May of each year, submit in writing to the Board
of Aldermen a written report of its activities, and analysis of the
expenditures to date for the current fiscal year, and, for review and approval,
its requested budget of funds needed for operation during the ensuing fiscal
year. B. Membership, Vacancies and Meetings page 2-4.
Recommendation by Alderman Sharkey to add language. The Planning Board shall
select one (1) of its members as Chairman and another as Vice-Chairman who
shall serve for one (1) year. To avoid the perception of a conflict of interest
or favoritism, the Chairman and Vice-Chairman elect may not be an immediate
family member of the Mayor of Southport, City Board Member, City Manager or UDO
Administrator. Planning Members serve for (3) years.
Alderman Sharkey stated that the Planning Board is an Advisory Board to the
Board of Aldermen who make the final decision.
Mayor Hatem said that he feels it is an important process of recommendation for
the long-term planning of the City to have an advisory board such as the
Planning Board to provide detailed information and report back to the Board of
Aldermen.
Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller echoed Mayor Hatem and suggested to leave the language
as written in the Draft but removing “City Officials and Staff”.
Aldermen Sharkey stated appointed Aldermen may after thirty days ( Article 14)
“ Planning Board shall state and review and make recommendation”. Keep “shall”
in the language and remove “if it deems wise”.
Concerns from Alderman Sharkey about language in (16) Committee Budgets.
Missing budget materials for the Planning Board.
Planner Lloyd clarified that the materials and supplies for Committees are
budgeted for and allocated from departmental supplies from the appropriate
departing ( Planning and Inspections).
Alderman Sharkey asked how conferences and training are line itemed in the
budget. How are these expenses covered? #15.
Alderman Mosteller asked if there were any training or conference requirements
required for the Planning Board responsibleness and duties.
Mr. Macleod stated that any expenses for travel or training required for
services for the Planning Board are paid for by the City. Since this was not
typically a requirement it was the Consensus of the Board to remove “budget
recover” # 15
Alderman Sharkey also wanted to clarify the length of term for Planning Board
members was three years as is for the Board of Adjustment.
Aldermen Sharkey also wanted to address potential long-term conflicts with
members of the Board being married or related. She said this could pose a
conflict of interest when decisions are being made. She recommended adding a
policy to prevent this matter to avoid undesirable perception from the Public.
Alderman Allen recommended that the Chair and Vice-Chair be voted on before the
end of each three-year term.
Mayor Hatem stated that all members of the Planning Board and Zoning Board of
Adjustment are volunteers who graciously provide their time and commitment. He
said it invaluable to continue with the knowledge and experience of the
continuation of service. Mayor Hatem stated the members are all appointed and
chosen thru a process and procedure for appointment or reappointment. Also, he
said the City Attorney stated there are no legal ramifications or conflict of
matter between married or related Board Members.
Planning Board member Mr. Rich Bandera also stated that he believes this poses
no conflict and believes in keeping the continuity and experience with
dedicated members.
Mr. Lombardi also agreed and stated that it was difficult to find volunteers
that are committed.
Alderman Mosteller requested to add language that would give a term limit of
one year to the Chair and Vice Chair of the Planning Board and Zoning Board of
Adjustment, and three-year term limit to members to avoid the perception of
conflict of interest.
Alderman Lombardi questioned page 2-5 (3) Alternate members shall not be
entitled to vote on matters before the Planning Board except when a regular
Planning Board member is absent from a duly called meeting. In that situation,
the alternate shall have the same privileges as the regular members and may
count for quorum purposes and vote if a regular member is absent. Vacancies
occurring for reasons other than expiration of terms shall be filled as they
occur for the period of the unexpired term. Faithful attendance at the meetings
of the board is considered a pre- requisite for the maintenance of membership
on the board. A vacancy shall exist on the board if a member is absent from 25
percent or more of the board’s meetings within a 12-month period of time and
said vacancy may be declared and filled by the Board of Aldermen.
Extraterritorial representatives shall have equal rights, privileges, and
duties with the other members of the board to which they are appointed,
regardless of whether the matters at issue arise within the city or within the
extraterritorial area.
Mr. Lombardi questioned why the alternate members voting requirements are
different than the regular members. Mr. Macleod recommended removing the
vacancy requirement sentence.
Page 2-9 (4) The Board of Adjustment shall elect one (1) of its members as
Chairman and another as Vice- Chairman who shall serve for one (1) year. The
city clerk, or designee, Administrator shall serve as secretary to the Board of
Adjustment. The board shall draw up and adopt the rules of procedures under
which it will operate. Meetings of the board shall be held at the call of the
Chairman and at such other times as the board may determine. The Chairman, or
in his absence, the Acting Chairman, may administer oaths and compel the
attendance of witnesses. All meetings of the board shall be open to the public.
The board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each
member upon every question, or his absence or failure to vote, indicating such
fact, and also keep records of its examination and any other official action.
Consensus of the Board to leave language as is.
Alderman Mosteller requested to include on page 2-19 to add exterior
illumination and special use permit. Mr. Macleod agreed that this will be
included to this section.
Page 2-43 Alderman Mosteller stated that a Code Enforcement Policy was being
created. The current draft states:
   2.14 ENFORCEMENT
   A. COMPLAINTS REGARDING VIOLATIONS
   Whenever the UDO Administrator receives a written, signed complaint alleging
a violation of this ordinance, he shall investigate the complaint, take
whatever action is warranted, and inform the complainant in writing what
actions have been or will be taken. The building inspector shall be responsible
for enforcement matters pertaining to the City and State Building Code.
   B. PERSONS LIABLE
   The owner, tenant, or occupant of any building or land or part thereof and
any architect, builder, contractor, agent, or other person who participates in,
assists, directs, creates, or maintains any situation that is contrary to the
requirements of this ordinance may be held responsible for the violation and
suffer the penalties and be subject to the remedies herein provided.
Alderman Davis recommended considering other forms of submitting complaints and
offer the ability to be anonymous when submitting complaints.
Mr. Macleod said that this is a procedural grey area that could be difficult
for personnel to provide a response or solution in a timely manner. It also may
potentially encourage unreasonable complaints and neighborly feuds.
Alderman Mosteller said that perhaps not every complaint would mandate a
response and suggested a way for people to make a complaint anonymously. It was
the consensus of the Board to create a way to make anonymous complaints.
Page 3-5 Section 3.2 Base Zoning Districts. Alderman Allen asked Mr. Macleod to
give an overview of the new concept of Conditional Zoning:      
   CZ: Conditional Zoning District. A special district where uses and densities
are established through public input for a development that has a high level of
certainty of being constructed and the most commonly expected application will
contain a specified use or uses, permitted by right or conditional use, on
small- and large-scale projects.
Mr. Macleod explained that the Conditional Rezoning helps give flexibility to
the City and the Applicant. He said it is a good negotiating tool that allows
for reasonable changes and gives the Board the opportunity to require certain
items with conditions. Mr. Macleod said that this is most likely for small
nonresidential parcels with minimal constraints but need flexibility.
Mr. Lombardi asked if it would still need approval from the Board of
Adjustment. Mr. Macleod said it would only need the Board of Aldermen approval.
Mr. Rich Bandera requested that Conditional Zoning only be permissible in
nonresidential. He said Southport is on a smaller scale and that in his opinion
CZ could allow for spot zoning if allowed in the residential district. He said
he would like to keep the natural preservation of the residential district.
   p.3-7 A. Use Table, abbreviated correction needed for additional use
standard SS instead of CS.
   P. 3-7 prohibited uses concerns by Alderman Sharkey: b. manufacturing of
plastic is listed as prohibited, but on p 3-8 states fabrication of plastic is
allowed.
Alderman Sharkey asks why is soap manufacturing prohibited? Newer organic soaps
are made without animal products, so I believe there would not be an offensive
odor. Could we include organically produced soaps in the use chart?
Macleod asked if these items wanted to be prohibited but add soaps as artisanal
for clarification and permissible.
Alderman Allen suggested to keep plastic manufacturing in Light Industrial and
have the UDO administrator clarify the difference in making plastics or putting
plastics together.
Alderman Sharkey p. 3-8 Uses: ATMs not permitted in any zone? Clarification by
Mr. Macleod that ATMS must be attached to a financial institution to be
permittable in any zone.
   K. Outdoor Vending Machine page 3-34
   Where permitted, the following shall apply: Within the CBD zoning district,
only attached automatic bank teller machines which are associated with the
principal financial institution shall be permitted. No other outdoor vending
machines or outdoor independently owned teller machines shall be permitted
within the CBD zoning district.
   Outdoor vending machines shall not obstruct pedestrian pathways, driving
aisles, parking spaces, or any areas necessary for proper vehicular circulation
or loading activities. A clear path of travel at least four feet wide must be
provided around outdoor vending machines.
   Outdoor vending machines shall not be located within four feet of the public
right-of- way or located in such a manner as to encourage or require customers
to stand or park in the right-of-way in order to use the machine.
   The back of an outdoor vending machine may not be located more than 18
inches from an exterior wall of the primary structure on the lot.
   If exposed conduits or pipes are required (e.g., to supply the outdoor
vending machine with power, coolant for refrigeration, or the product being
dispensed), they shall be secured to the building and painted or otherwise
screened to match the building exterior. Exposed conduits, pipes, and utility
connections shall not bridge a span or gap greater than 18 inches.
   All outdoor vending machines shall be maintained in a clean and attractive
condition. Any graffiti on an outdoor vending machine shall be removed within
24 hours. If the outdoor vending machine is removed, the area shall be cleaned
and restored to its previous condition, including the removal of any abandoned
pipes, conduits or other connecting hardware.
   In addition to the above, the following criteria shall apply to outdoor
vending machines:
   Outdoor vending machines shall not block or visually obstruct the sales
counter as viewed from outside the establishment.
Alderman Mosteller clarified that vending machines are not allowed in CBD.
Alderman Allen reiterated that this would help create a more aesthetically
pleasing area in BD.
   p.3-8 Uses: Docks, piers, gazebos, bulkheads and living shorelines. Why are
Boat lifts eliminated from permitted use? If existing boat lifts are damaged by
storm and need replacement would it be permitted under the UDO asked Alderman
Sharkey.
Mr. Macleod clarified that is not listed on the table of permitted uses. Boat
Lifts is defined in the Draft UDO as an accessory structure, it is not part of
the dock. Boat lifts will have to be attached to the dock.
City Manager Hargrove asked if docks, gazebos, and piers were allowed in open
space.
Mr. Macleod clarified on page 3-31 only in nonresidential use, this does not
include Marinas.
   E. Docks, Piers, Bulkheads, and Living Shorelines
   Where permitted, docks, piers, bulkheads, and living shorelines shall be
constructed in accordance with the CAMA use standards as stated in 15A NCAC 07H
and the Army Corps of Engineers setback requirements. Within the Open
Space District, only non-commercial residential docks and piers shall be
permitted. Docks may be utilized as a principal or accessory or accessory
structure where permitted .
Alderman Mosteller asked if a clause be added regarding only noncommercial
docks/piers attached to individual lots are permissible. Mr. Macleod said it is
allowed as the principal but, it would be up to the UDO Administrator to
interpret the difference between commercial and noncommercial.
Mr. Macleod said this is only in the residential open space. The Yacht Basin
and the BD are special uses.
Alderman Spencer asked if a Charter Captain wants to run a business from his
residential dock would this be permissible.
Mr. Macleod said that this would not be permissible because it is not for
residential purposes and not approved for a home occupation.
Alderman Mosteller said that she would like to continue this discussion and how
to regulate community docks and piers.
Mayor Hatem requested that the graph on page 3-8 directs you to language that
will interpret each type of use.
                                                              Districts                                          Use
Table 3.1: Table of Uses                                      P = Permitted by Right; S = Special Use; PS or SS  Stand
                                                              = Permitted or Special Use with a Use Standard     ard
Uses                                                          ICS R- R- M  MH  PUD O-I CBD BD   HC   LI   HI   O Sectio
                                                                  10 20 F                                      S n #
Accessory Uses
ACCESSORY STRUCTURES OR USES, GENERAL                             PS PS PS PS  PS  PS  PS  PS   PS   PS   PS     3.6.A
ACCESSORY DWELLING, COMMERCIAL                                                 SS  SS  SS  SS   SS   SS   SS     3.6.B
ACCESSORY DWELLING, RESIDENTIAL                                   SS SS SS SS  SS  SS                            3.6.C
ATMS, ATTACHED                                                                 P   P       P    P
CEMETERIES AND MAUSOLEUMS                                        SS SS SS SS  SS  SS  PS  PS   PS               3.6.D
DOCKS, BOAT LIFTS, PIERS, GAZEBOS, BULKEADS, AND LIVING         PS PS PS PS  PS  PS  PS  PS                  P 3.6.E
SHORELINES                                                                                                     S
HOME DAYCARE, ADULT AND CHILD                                    SS SS SS SS  SS                                3.6.F
HOME OCCUPATION                                                   SS SS SS SS  SS                                3.6.G
MODULAR UNIT                                                               PSC PSC PSC PSC PS CPS CPS CPS C  3.6.H
OUTDOOR DISPLAY                                                                        PS  PS   PS               3.6.I
OUTDOOR STORAGE                                                                        P   PS   PS   PS   PS     3.6.J
OUTDOOR VENDING MACHINE                                                   PS  PS  PS  PS  PS   PS   PS   PS     3.6.K
PORTABLE STORAGE CONTAINERS                                       PS PS PS PS  PS  PS  PS  PS   PS   PS   PS     3.6.L
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE OR TRAVEL TRAILER                            PS PS    PS  PS  PS                            3.6.M
SELF-SERVICE ICE VENDING MACHINES AND OTHER SIMILAR DETACHED                             SS   SS               3.6.N
ACCESSORY USES /STRUCTURES
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS                                              PS PS PS PS  PS  PS  PS  PS   PS   PS   PS     3.6.O
 
Alderman Davis asked for the definition of outdoor storage.
   (J) page 3-34.
   All outdoor/open storage areas shall be fenced with a minimum of a six (6)
foot opaque fence and shall not be visible from the public right-of-way.
   Where possible, All outdoor storage materials shall be kept in the rear of
buildings and in no case shall outdoor storage materials be located closer than
five (5) feet from any adjoining property line.
Mr. Macleod said that this did not apply to most places in CBD.
Alderman Sharkey asked if this outdoor storage applied to outdoor seating as
well. Mr. Macleod said that it does not apply to outdoor seating.
Alderman Mosteller requested to remove or add standards to Permanent Portable
Storage Containers on page 3-35.
It was the consensus of the Board to remove Portable Storage Containers from
the BD. Alderman Sharkey and Alderman Spencer have concerns about the removal
Motion to Adjourn by Alderman John Allen, and second by Mayor Pro Tem Karen
Mosteller.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Adjournment at approximately 7:05 P.M.
Mayor, Joseph P. Hatem
                  
                Attest, Clerk, Tanya Shannon
OCTOBER 8, 2020
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING October 8, 2020
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
Regular Meeting Minutes
Present:    Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor Pro Tem Karen Mosteller, Alderman Lowe
Davis, Marc Spencer, Thomas Lombardi, Lora Sharkey and John Allen.
Staff Present:      Gordon Hargrove, City Manager
         Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
         Thomas Lloyd, City Planner
         Tori Deviney, Administrative Assistant
         Heather Hemphill, Director Parks and Recreation
         Tom Stanley, Public Services Assistant Director
         David Fox Pubic Services Director   “
         Kate Marshall, Codes Enforcement
         Charles Drew, Fire Department Chief
         Todd Coring, Police Department Chief
         Randy Jones, Public information Officer
         Lisa Anderson, Public Videographer
Call to order by Mayor Joseph P. Hatem at 6:00 P.M.
Moment of silence in remembrance of Mr. Bill Miller and Ms. Joyce Hewett.
Invocation was led by Alderman Lowe Davis.
The Pledge of Allegiance was led by Mayor Joseph P. Hatem
Public Comment:
All email and letters submitted to the Mayor, The Board of Aldermen, Clerk, and
Staff will be read in public comment and kept on file with the Clerk’s Office
and will be included in the minutes in their entirety. Also, full audio/video
is available on the City’s website or requested by the City Clerk.
Mayor Hatem read an email from a resident who wished to remain anonymous that
was attacked by a trio of residential cats which were vaccinated while walking
her dog. She wished to thank Kate Marshall with Animal Protective Services/Code
Enforcement along with the assisting Police Officer for helping her with the
traumatic ordeal. Mayor Hatem also applauded Kate and all City Safety Officers.
Mayor Hatem read an email from a resident who applauded the new one-way traffic
pattern in the Yacht Basin Corridor.
Dawn Pieper, resident in the Landing of Southport subdivision, submitted a
letter in her absence that was read by Administrative Assistant, Tori Deviney.
She expressed concerns for “annihilation and loss of trees and underbrush
behind her and adjacent properties”. She is requesting assistance and assurance
that Bald Head Island property owners Association will replace the barrier with
tall trees or/and a high fence to buffer noise and lights.
Mr. Paul Swenson, 107 N. Atlantic Ave., has concerns regarding the one-way
traffic in the yacht basin area. He would like to see more guidelines
established with the traffic pattern. He recommended lowering the speed limit,
informing persons of the tide tables, removing palm tree covering signage, and
better instructions/directions with the traffic pattern that will not allow
golf carts to continue in the wrong way.
Alderman Sharkey read an email submitted by Eli Bostic and Robert Frankenfield
with Southport Boat Rentals, 112 Yacht Basin Drive. They are in favor of the
new one-way road and pedestrian traffic lane on Yacht Basin Dr. They stated the
it allows for a steady and safe flow of vehicle traffic and the pedestrian lane
allows for a safe walking space.
Motion by Alderman Lombardi to approve the agenda, second by Mayor Pro Tem
Mosteller. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Presentation from Mr. Dave Morgan with the Southport Rotary Club with a check
submitted to the City for telescopes for the Waterfront.
Motion to approve the Consent Agenda by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller, second by
Alderman Spencer.  Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Items 1-9 of the consents agenda were approved, and the following numbered
consent agenda items were read at the meeting.
Proclamation for Emergency Nurses Week October 11-17 was read by Mayor Hatem.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2228_1439x1074.jpg]
PROCLAMATION
EMERGENCY NURSES WEEK
OCTOBER 11-17, 2020
WHEREAS,    There are approximately 167,0000 emergency nurses in the United
States who have expertise in caring for all emergency patients across the
spectrum of the lifespan; ushering life in at birth and allowing for dignified
death, and
WHEREAS,   Emergency nurses are highly trained to recognize life-threatening
problems and solve them on the spot, playing a vital role in treating patients
in emergency situations, caring for those most in need, and saving lives daily,
and
WHEREAS,   These characteristics provide a broad scope of practice for the
delivery and complex care within a limited timeframe to healthcare consumers of
all ages and backgrounds, and
WHEREAS,   Through research, education, and emergency nursing advocacy , the
Emergency Nurses Association supports and honors the advancement of
professionalism of emergency nurses everywhere, and
WHEREAS,   Let us join together to honor extraordinary acts of service,
compassion, and commitment that emergency nurses provide to patients every day,
and especially to honor the Emergency Nurses at J. Arthur Dosher Memorial
Hospital.
NOW THEREFORE, I , Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor, do herby proclaim October 11-17,
2020 as:
“EMERGENCY NURSES WEEK”
In Testimony Whereof, I hereto Set my hand to be affixed the great seal of The
City of Southport on this 8th day of October in the year of our Lord 2020.
                  Mayor, Joseph P. Hatem
Attest: Clerk, Tanya Shannon
Proclamation for Breast Cancer Awareness Month read by Mayor Hatem. Mayor Hatem
also wanted to remind everyone to get scanned for early detection and to wear
pink to show support for Breast Cancer Awareness.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2231_541x957.jpg] Proclamation
Breast Cancer Awareness Month October 2020
Whereas, October is National Breast Cancer Awareness Month, which is an annual
campaign to increase awareness of this disease,
Whereas, National Breast Cancer Awareness Month remains dedicated to increasing
public knowledge about the importance of early detection and treatment,
Whereas, it is estimated by the National Cancer Institute that there will be
276,480 new cases of Breast Cancer in 2020 and 42,120 will die from the
disease,
Whereas, due to improved early detection with advanced technology such as 3-
D Mammography, which is available at Dosher Memorial Hospital, and through
medical research with more innovative therapeutics and surgical intervention
available, there is a 90 percent 5-year survival rate as compared to 80% in
1990,
Whereas, with the utilization of annual screening, early detection, and
advanced therapies, Breast Cancer patients are living longer, we honor and
celebrate their resolve, their resilience and hope for the day when medicine
and its institutions including the National Cancer Institute, major cancer
centers such as Sloan Kettering and MD Anderson, as well as university medical
schools such as UNC School of Medicine at Chapel Hill, find a cure,
Whereas, this October, we recognize Breast Cancer Survivors, those battling the
disease, and also their family members and friends who are also affected by
this disease and are a tireless source of support and comfort,
Whereas, We the Citizens of Southport, the Board of Aldermen, the City Manager,
the City Attorney and all City Employees, will wear pink ribbons, pink
clothing, including pink Chuck Taylor All Stars, to honor and celebrate our
neighbors, family, and friends who are Breast Cancer Survivors, and quietly
mourn and remember those whom we have lost,
Therefore, I, Dr. Joe Pat Hatem, Mayor of the City of Southport, do herby
recognize all of the above and encourage all citizens, government agencies,
private businesses, nonprofit organizations, and all other interested groups to
join in activities that will increase awareness and support all entities that
promote prevention, early detection, treatment, and research concerning Breast
Cancer and do so hereby proclaim October 2020 Breast Cancer Awareness Month.
                     Mayor Joseph P. Hatem
Attest: Clerk, Tanya Shannon
Chief Drew speaks about fire prevention and thanked Randy Jones and Lisa
Anderson for their assistance with the public safety video.
Resolution for Fire Prevention Week read by Chief Drew.
[Image]
Resolution
Proclaiming October 4 - 10, 2020 Fire Prevention Week
WHEREAS, the Southport Fire Department is committed to ensuring the safety and
security of all those living in and visiting our Fire District; and
WHEREAS, fire is a serious public safety concern both locally and nationally,
and kitchens are the locations where people are at the greatest risk of fire;
and
WHEREAS, the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) has documented through
its research a significant increase in kitchen fires, and due to this fact, it
is important that everyone “Cook with Care” and “Watch what you Heat” while
cooking in your home in case of a fire; and
WHEREAS, the Firefighters of the Southport Fire Department are dedicated to
reducing the occurrence of residential and commercial structural fires and fire
related injuries through prevention and protection education; and
WHEREAS, the residents of the Southport Fire District are responsive to public
education measures and are able to take personal steps to increase their safety
from fire; and
WHEREAS, being prepared in the event of a kitchen fire will have a positive
effect on the home fire problem; and
WHEREAS, each home fire that is prevented in the Southport Fire District is an
opportunity to prevent painful injury and costly property damage; and
WHEREAS, the 2020 Fire Prevention Week theme, “Serving up Fire Safety in the
Kitchen” effectively serves to remind us all of the simple actions we can take
to stay safer from fire every day.
THEREFORE, I Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor of the City of Southport do hereby proclaim
October 4-10, 2020 as Fire Prevention Week throughout this City, and I urge all
the citizens of Southport to heed the important safety messages from the
Southport Fire Prevention Team, and the Office of the Fire Chief and to support
the many public safety activities and efforts of the Southport Fire Department.
                     Mayor Joseph P. Hatem
Attest: Clerk, Tanya Shannon
Chief Drew stated that a fire hydrant at Dosher Memorial Hospital was painted
pink in memory of those whose lives were lost and as a reminder to get scanned
for early detection of breast cancer. Resolution for Firefighters advocating
Breast Cancer Awareness read by Chief Drew.
City of Southport Fire Department
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2237_2685x2685.jpg]
WHEREAS, cancer affects millions of people all over the world, and the fact
that there is a proven correlation between firefighting and cancer, confirm
both the need to eradicate the terrible disease and, until a cure is found,
promote prevention, and help alleviate the suffering of its victims; and
WHEREAS, in 2020 the American Cancer Society expected about 2 million new
cancers to be diagnosed in the United States. This year about 600,000 Americans
are expected to die of cancer, more than 1,500 people a day; and
WHEREAS, cancer is one of the deadliest diseases of them all, we need to come
together to fight it, which means more of us who haven’t been affected need to
step up and promote prevention and early detection. Urging women to have
routine checkups and mammograms.
WHEREAS, Southport Fire Fighters normally wear blue shirts 365 days a year, for
the month of October they will don pink shirts to show our support of breast
cancer awareness, early detection, and prevention of the horrible disease.
THEREFORE, BE IT RELSOLVED, that the SOUTHPORT FIRE DEPARTMENT gives
an image of hope and encouragement to those battling breast cancer; the
department stands united with them; you are not alone in your fight. The City
of Southport encourages, recognizes, and supports the Southport Fire Department
in their efforts of promoting early detection and prevention of breast cancer
awareness.
Motion to authorize Mayor Hatem to open and close public hearing for Bonnet Way
Annexation submitted by Bonnet Way HOA and for Annexation request for 116 E.
13th St. submitted by Mr. Eckert and Mr. Narron; by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller,
second by Alderman Lombardi. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Agenda
Motion by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller to authorize the Mayor to open and close
Public Hearing items 1 and 2. Second by Mr. Lombardi. Unanimous vote; motion
carried.
Mayor Hatem declared the Board to be in public hearing for agenda items 1 and
2.
City Planner Thomas Lloyd gave an overview of the proposed Annexation for
Bonnet Way. He stated the property referenced above is located off of Robert
Ruark Dr. on Forest Oaks Dr. It is located to the South of the Ridge and to the
West of Southport Way. The size of the property is 7.681 acres. He said the
property consists of 32 townhomes and HOA common area. The voluntary annexation
petition is signed by all 32 property owners, and the HOA. They already have
access to City services (at the time of their approval the City offered Water
and Sewer outside of the City) but are annexing in order to qualify for in-City
Water and Sewer rates as opposed to outside the City rates. He explained the
Board of Aldermen directed the City Clerk to verify that the annexation
petition was sufficient and in accordance with NC GS 160A-31 at the June 11th
meeting. A couple properties changed hands in between the June 11th and July
9th meeting so staff had to pull the annexation off the agenda until we got
those updated signatures. Mr. Lloyd said we now have all the applicable
signatures from the property owners. The Clerk verified that the petition was
sufficient at the August 13th meeting, the Board of Aldermen set a public
hearing for the annexation for the September 10th meeting. In consultation with
the City Attorney, staff realized that the annexation was not properly noticed.
At the September 10th meeting the hearing was continued to October 8th so the
public hearing could be properly advertised in accordance with NC GS 160A-31.
The hearing was advertised in the 9/23 edition of the State Port Pilot. Mr.
Lloyd said the Board must now hear from the public and consider the annexation
petition.
There being no questions or comments from the Public or the Board, Mayor Hatem
closed the Public Hearing for the Bonnet Way Annexation Hearing.
Motion to approve the Bonnet Way Annexation by Alderman Davis, second by
Alderman Sharkey. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Request for Annexation 116 E. 13th St; submitted by Mr. Eckert and Mr. Narron.
City Planner Thomas Lloyd gave an overview of the application for annexation.
He stated that the property referenced above is located on the corner of E 13th
and N. Atlantic. The size of the property is .46 acres (20,212.25 sf). The
property is currently vacant and is currently zoned business district. The
Parcel ID is 221MB01801. The property is noncontiguous to the City Limits. He
said at the August 13th meeting the Board recognized the receipt of the
petition and adopted a resolution requesting the City Clerk to verify the
sufficiency of the petition in accordance with NC GS 160A-31. He said the Clerk
has verified that the petition is sufficient. At the September 10th meeting,
the Board of Aldermen adopted a resolution setting the public hearing for the
October 8th meeting. The hearing was advertised in the 9/23 edition of the
State Port Pilot in accordance with NC GS 160A-31. Mr. Lloyd said that the
applicants have requested that the consideration for annexation be postponed
until the property has the approval for rezoning , and then all considerations
can be decided at one time.
The consensus of the Board of Aldermen was to defer the annexation decision
until the November 12th Board of Aldermen regular meeting, but to proceed with
the Public Hearing.
There being no questions, comments, or concerns from the Public or the Board,
Mayor Hatem closed the Public Hearing for the request for Annexation for 116 E.
13th St.
Major Subdivision Preliminary Plat, The Oaks at Highland Park Phase 3.
City Planner, Mr. Lloyd gave an overview of the Plat. He said  Southport
Development Associates had filed for a Preliminary Plat approval for Phase 3 of
the Oaks at Highland Park. He said this project has been in the works for some
time and they are now ready to continue with phase 3. The subdivision is
located off Stuart on Highland Park avenue. The Final Plat for phase 1 was
approved in May of 2015 consisting of 6 lots and the final plat for phase 2
consisting of 6 lots was approved in December of 2018. They are proposing to
extend the existing Raven Glen Dr to Atlantic and are looking to construct the
infrastructure for 19 additional lots on a 7.31-acre property located inside
the City limits. The zoning of the property is R-10 so each lot must be 10,000
sf and must conform with the criteria in Article 25 Major Subdivisions. The
average lot size is 10,897 sf. The setbacks will be 25 front, 8-foot side, and
20 rear. The width must be 75 feet frontage, except on a cul-de sac where there
can be a minimum frontage of 40 feet per lot provided that fifty feet from the
property line has a width of 75 feet. All of the lots meet this requirement.
The open space provision for R-10 Major Subdivisions is 1/57 acre for every
residential lot. Based on that that ratio, 23,690.51 sf of open space must be
provided. 38,417 sf of open space is provided. It’s also important to note that
this subdivision plat is being judged based on what the standards are in the
previous ordinance, not the recently adopted one. He said as far as
infrastructure goes, they are proposing 60 foot right of ways with 5-foot
sidewalks on both sides. The city consulting engineer will need to review and
approve the stormwater, erosion control, and utility plans prior to the start
of any site work in consultation with the Public Works Department. Mr. Lloyd
said the Planning Board reviewed this preliminary plat at its August 13th and
September 17th meeting. The Planning Board found that it meets the standards of
a preliminary plat and recommended that the Board of Aldermen approve it. Mr.
Lloyd continued that staff found that all preliminary plat requirements are
met. If the preliminary plat is approved, the developer and their engineer will
then submit the erosion control, stormwater, and utility plan to the City’s
consulting engineer and to the State.
Alderman Sharkey asked if the development was entirely in the City Limits. Mr.
Lloyd is said that Highland Park Avenue itself is not in the City Limits. He
said there was discussion regarding on incorporation Highland Park Avenue Road
maintenance and who will be responsible for the maintenance.
Alderman Sharkey questioned if the HOA for the development will be responsible
for the streets and the stormwater and recommended waiting for the
determination of who will take responsibility for road repairs and stormwater
regulations.
Motion to approve The Oaks at Highland Park Phase 3 plat by Alderman Allen,
second by Alderman Davis. Aye: Aldermen Lombardi, Spencer, Davis, Allen, and
Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller. Nay: Alderman Sharkey . 5-1 Motion carried.
Appointment of City Alternate Position to the Planning Board.
Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller made a motion to appoint Mr. Gustavo Mibelli as City
Alternate position to the Planning Board, second by Alderman Allen. Unanimous
vote; motion carried.
Chief Drew gave an overview of the proposed purchase of new fire engine (s).
Chief Drew explained that over the past year, the department has been working
with several different fire truck companies to create a bid specification for a
new first out engine for our Caswell Beach Substation. He said that he met with
3 different manufacturers, that have provided specifications and rough price
quotes. Specifically, he met with Pierce Manufacturing, Safe Industries Inc.,
and CW Williams Fire Truck Specialties/Rosenbauer. He created a table below for
the Board to get a quick review of their proposals:
 
 
Name of Company     Engine Specifications                     Rough Estimate
Pierce Mfg.         1000-gallon Engine, 1500 gpm pump, Saber  750-780k
                    Custom Cab.
Safe Industries/KME 750-gallon Engine, 1500 gpm Pump, Panther 680-750k
                    Custom Cab
CW                  1000-gallon   Engine, 1500 gpm pump,  415-430k
Williams/Rosenbauer Commander Custom Cab
 
The Fire Officers have met and decided to recommend CW Williams/Rosenbauer.
This particular specification has already met the bid requirements for the City
of Southport. It has been bid through the Houston/Galveston Group Purchases
Program bid process and came in at 427k. An added benefit to this engine is
that it can be built and delivered in 180 days.
Chief Drew provided a current picture of the first out engines:
 
Station         1st out Engine      Maintenance Costs/Problems
                Information
                Engine 374
Headquarters    2007 Rosenbauer     City Garage- 14k(3yrs) Other-1k(3yrs)
                1000 gallons, 1250  Having no issues currently
                gpm pump,
                Engine 375
Downtown        1995 E-ONE          City Garage-4k(3yrs) Other- 14k(3yrs)
Substation      1000 gallons, 1500  Crack in Tank, A/C problems
                gpm pump,
                Engine 371          City Garage – 6k(3yrs) Other-12k(3yrs)
Long Beach Road 2000 E-ONE          A/C not operable, Problems with Brake
Substation      1000 gallons, 1250  System
                gpm pump,
                Engine 372
Caswell Beach   2000 E-ONE          City Garage- 6k (3yrs) Other-20k(3yrs)
Substation      900 gallons, 1250   A/C not operable, Problems passing
                gpm pump, 30 gallon annual pump test.
                foam tank.
He said as you can see from the above table, there is a need to replace 2 of
the first out engines. The original plan was to purchase a new 1 st  out engine
for the Caswell Beach Substation. In this current year budget, there is 300k
earmarked for this project. This is money that was obtained from the
dissolution of the Yaupon Beach Fire Department. Additionally, during Hurricane
Isaias one of our reserve pumpers was totaled out during the storm surge, and
we have received 300k for that truck from our insurance company. With these
additional funds from the insurance, I would like to purchase 2 first out
engines. One engine would be for the Caswell Beach Substation and the other 1
st  out engine would be for Headquarters.
After speaking with CW Williams Fire Truck Specialists, they are willing to
give us a substantial discount if we order 2 engines. At the present they have
agreed to a savings around 20k, but it could be more. The department has 600k
for these purchases and would be able to finance the remainder of the amount.
Very little equipment would need to be purchased, due to the fact, we could use
the equipment from the engines that are taken out of service due to
replacement. Attorney Isenberg reviews a resolution authorizing the purchase of
the 2 engines thru HGAC cooperative Purchasing Program which authorized the
City Manager to seek financing proposals also.
Motion by Alderman Spencer to approve the resolution authorizing the purchase
of 2 new fire engine(s) and authorizing the City Manager to obtain financing
proposals. Second by Alderman Sharkey. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Consideration of Sewer Line Extension on Rhett Street.
Alderman Allen described where the line is. He stated he does not know if the
city did it or if was contracted out. He felt it was put in wrong and should be
an 8” and not a 6” line. He said it’s not an individual line but a service
line. He felt it does not need to be extended but enlarged. Mr. Fox spoke on
how the company would allow you to up size, but any line larger than 8” would
need an extension. Mr. Stanley said the line is in the right of way. It was put
in as a service line. You can have 2 connections to a service line and two
manholes need to be removed and 2 need to be installed. Mayor Pro Tem asked if
that is a common occurrence to have 6” lines around town. Alderman Spencer
asked how much an 8” would hold? Mr. Stanley said it would still serve the 2
existing customers and maybe 2 more with the 8”. City Manager Hargrove asked if
there are any alternatives to this. He said the property owners have already
agreed to pay for the extension if need be. Alderman Sharkey mentioned that
this would not be under repairs as it did not need to be repaired. She asked
that public services find out if there are more 6” lines. Mr. Fox said there
are no drawings for that area. Mr. Stanley said it is not going to be an easy
task. Alderman Davis asked if they can give them an estimate on the manpower
and time it will take. Mr. Stanley said he is not a wise use of time to
research the manpower and time need. Alderman Sharkey has a concern about
taking it out of the repair fund now. She would like to wait to see if the
money needs to be spent somewhere else. Alderman Sharkey stated it is a service
enhancement and not repair. Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller asked Mr. Stanley if he
believes it was done right in the beginning and he states he believed it was.
They didn’t know back then that the lots would be subdivided. Alderman Lombardi
asked what the timeline is. Alderman Allen said that there is a prospective for
purchase depending on the sewer expansion. Alderman Sharkey asked if there
could be a report back in a month to research the time, cost and benefit of the
cost. She said that a City Policy should be established for future situations
like this.
Motion to approve the extension of the sewer line on Rhett Street by Alderman
Allen, second by Alderman Davis. Alderman Sharkey recommended to look at the
funds to appropriate for the extension and decide later. Aye; Mayor Pro Tem
Mosteller, Alderman Lombardi, Davis, Allen and Spencer. Nay; Alderman Sharkey.
5-1. Motion carried.
Pedestrian Corridor in the Yacht Basin by City Manager Hargrove.
Mr. Hargrove gave an overview of the Pedestrian Corridor. He stated that during
the Memorial Day Holiday city staff installed a temporary pedestrian corridor
that extended from Caswell Ave onBay Street to Yacht Basin Drive and W. Moore
St. to increase pedestrian safety. The Board of Aldermen voted to keep the
Pedestrian Corridor; however, he explained that the markings painted on the
road to identify the pedestrian walkway are not always visible because of the
extreme high tides that the area has had recently. Mr. Hargrove said local
businesses are concerned about the one-way traffic flow when the tides are high
because vehicles will turn around and go in the wrong direction to avoid the
high water. He said this becomes a safety issue to pedestrians and other
vehicles. Mr. Hargrove said that the City can continue with the one-way traffic
pattern or pause the project and get more input from the local businesses and
residents.
Alderman Allen stated that he likes the plan. He said what should happen is to
block off Bay St. at Caswell Avenue on the days that we anticipate high tides.
Alderman Lombardi agrees that he doesn’t see changing it at this time either.
Alderman Davis asked who would be responsible for blocking off the streets
during the high tides. City Manager Hargrove stated that it should be public
works who does the barricades since they have better equipped vehicles.
Alderman Sharkey stated this was the first she has heard of people not liking
the traffic flow. The City needs to do better with signage and investigate the
cost of flashing high water signs to divert traffic before getting down to the
end of Moore Street.
Chief Coring wanted to note that the high tides and the flooding in the yacht
basin area have inspired curiosity and some vehicles have chosen to drive thru
and disobey procedures regarding safety established by the City. He stated they
will continue to monitor and discourage the disobedience of procedures.
Motion to use barricades at high tide by Public Services Department by Alderman
Allen and second by Alderman Lombardi. Unanimous vote ; motion carried.
Alderman Spencer suggested using flashing lights instead of using the manpower
and barricades. Chief Coring spoke about his experience with the high tides and
how he thought of the tides in his decision for the cross walk and in his
experience with people will not always be compliant.
City Manager Hargrove spoke on behalf of the Southport City Dock. He asked for
the Board to consider either the approval of the CAMA Major Permit with the
Divisions of Coastal management or repairing the dock or demolishing it. Mr.
Hargrove asked the Board of Aldermen on the direction on how to proceed. If it
is not acceptable to the adjacent property owners, then they will have to get a
variance.
Motion to authorize the City Manager to proceed with 50% repair at this time
while still seeking the Major Permit Approval from CAMA by Alderman Sharkey and
second by Alderman Spencer. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Committee Reports:
Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller, liaison to the Planning Board, thanked Cape Fear
Council of Government Senior Planner Mr. Wes MacLeod for his assistance and
guidance on the revision of the United Development Ordinance along with the
dedication of the Planning Board, City Planner Thomas Lloyd and Staff for their
many hours in approving the UDO adopted September 23, 2020.
Alderman Lombardi, liaison to the Beautification Committee, thanked all
volunteers for their service and dedication. He encouraged everyone to go to
the pollinated garden at “Lowe-White Park” to volunteer and assist with the
astonishing progress.
Alderman Davis liaison to the Forestry Committee, announced the next meeting
will be at 5:00 P.M. on 10/13.
Alderman Sharkey said that the Rate Committee discussed how properties with
solar panels are metered and how billing is assigned to that. The Committee
recommended that BEMC come to a Board Meeting with a full presentation to help
the City develop a policy.
City Manager’s Comments
Mr. Hargrove thanked everyone for their patience with the debris removal
process. He explained that it is a FEMA rule not to allow pick upon private
streets. He explained there is still a large quantity of wood chips at Taylor
Field that needs to be removed and the transportation cost to remove is
$62,250.00 and the payoff for the chips will be approximately $27,000.00.
Therefore, he said the net cost is approximately $38,258.00 and he will need
approval to contract from the Board.
Motion by Alderman Sharkey to approve the contract up to $40,000.00, second by
Mr. Allen. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Mayor’s Comments
Mayor Hatem congratulated local resident Andy Broadwell for winning the King
Mackerel Tournament.
He thanked everyone for acknowledging Breast Cancer awareness with “Think Pink”
and honored Ms. Betty Ford for bringing awareness of breast cancer to the
public.
He thanked Chief Drew for Fire Prevention Week and the videos that help keep
citizens safe and keep smoke detectors working properly.
Mayor Hatem congratulated Mr. Howie Franklin, Cape Fear Regional Jetport
Manager, as he is the first ever recipient of the Willard G. Plentl Aviation
Professional of the Year Award.
Update on the Southport Weather Tower. The city has received approximately
$10,000.00 in donations for repairs and Mayor Hatem thanked all those for the
support. He encouraged everyone to visit the City’s website for the history of
the tower. Donations can be made by visiting the City website.
Mayor Hatem also encouraged everyone to be diligent with protection from COVID-
19 and to follow the guidelines that prevent the spread of the virus.
The City Newsletter is now available on the city’s website and Mayor Hatem
thanked everyone for their participation. He also wanted to thank the Planning
Board, Board Liaisons, City Planner Mr. Lloyd, Mr. Wes MacLeod , Staff and
citizens for the completion and adoption of the Unified Development Ordinance.
He also wanted to remind everyone to vote.
Mayor Hatem thanked City Manager Hargrove and Staff for their hard work
especially during these challenging times.
Board Comments
Alderman Allen also wanted to encourage everyone to vote. He thanked the City
Manager and Staff for their services and dedication. Also, he is appreciative
of bringing Breast Awareness to the public.
Alderman Spencer said that he is grateful that the City Dock is beginning to
move forward. He also expressed gratitude for the acknowledgement of breast
cancer awareness. Alderman Spencer asked for thoughts and prayers for several
long-time residents that recently passed.
Alderman Sharkey had concerns for the City growing in a systematic way. She
said that this was no reflection on Staff or anyone else. She said that she
would like to see more information be presented and investigated before a
decision is made a duty to the citizens.
Alderman Davis said that she has received some complaints about paying Hospital
tax with their property taxes. She said we should be grateful that we have a
wonderful Hospital like Dosher Memorial which provides high quality care to
patients.
Alderman Lombardi thanked the Board and Staff for their dedication and
commitment to serve the City.
Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller announced “ Sydney’s Howl-o-ween Bowser Bash – Virtual
Costume Party!” She said the City of Southport is committed to keeping our
community and visitors safe and slowing the spread of the COVID-19 virus, so we
are finding safe new ways to enjoy favorite seasonal events. A parade of
submitted photos will be displayed beginning on Halloween October 31st. on the
City’s website.
There being no further business, questions or concerns, motion to adjourn by
Alderman Lombardi, second by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller. Unanimous vote; motion
carried.
Adjournment at approximately 8:48 P.M.
   Mayor, Joseph P. Hatem
                  Attest; Clerk, Tanya Shannon
OCTOBER 16, 2020
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING October 16, 2020
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
Present:       Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor Pro Tem Karen Mosteller, Alderman
Lowe Davis, Marc Spencer, Thomas Lombardi and John Allen.
Absent:      Alderman Lora Sharkey.
Staff Present:   Gordon Hargrove, City Manager.
      Mike Isenberg, City Attorney.
      City Clerk, Tanya Shannon.
      Melanie Trexler, Finance Director. 
      David Fox, Public Services Director
      Tom Stanley, Public Services Assistant Director
      Randy Jones, Tourism Director.
      Lisa Anderson, Public Information Officer
      Todd Coring, Police Chief
Call to order by Mayor Joseph P. Hatem at 2:30 P.M.
The Invocation was led by Alderman Lowe Davis.
The Pledge of Allegiance was led by Mayor Joseph P. Hatem.
Motion to approve the agenda by Alderman Lombardi , second by Mayor Pro Tem
Mosteller.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Ethics Statement by Mayor Hatem: ”If any members know of any conflict of
interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect to matters on
the agenda please so state at this time.”
Mayor Hatem gave a brief history from the State Port Pilot “ Time and Tide”
from the September 2, 2020 edition.
The article dated September 1, 1965 reported “bids for the construction of a
new sewer treatment plan for Southport had been opened.” Mayor Hatem said as
you can see this has been a very long process.
Agenda
Discussion and consideration of sewer agreement with Brunswick County.
Mayor Hatem stated that at the February 13, 2020 Board of Aldermen Meeting
there was a discussion regarding the wastewater treatment service agreement
with Brunswick County. He explained that this is an important issue for our
City. He said it was a complex discussion that involved growth projections,
existing flows, storms and hurricanes. He said there was an intuitive aspect
and a capacity issue. Consulting engineers Hazen and Sawyer estimated usage of
approximately 750,000 gallons per day. Mayor Hatem said that in September 2019
there was much discussion during the time of the election on how to proceed
with the sewer service.
He explained initially the City had decided to contract with Brunswick County
and then decided to build a Wastewater Treatment Plant. He said there has been
many issues with the location of the proposed Sewer Plant. Mayor Hatem
continued to explain that the campaign was based on the “regionalization of
services.” He stated now is the time to make a permanent solution of the City
of Southport’s sewer needs.
City Manager Hargrove provided the Board with a Memorandum from Attorney Mr.
Gray Styers. He said the City has studied the average flows from the past 12-14
months. He said the City has a built-in capacity of .75 million gallons that
the County is going to allocate to the City in the proposed agreement.
City attorney Mike Isenberg, city representative attorney Gray Styers, and City
Manager Gordon Hargrove have been in negotiation with Brunswick County to
complete an agreement.
Mr. Isenberg said that in the agreement the City of Southport has the absolute
right to serve any property in the city limits, including any potential
annexations. Mr. Isenberg said the agreement will also allow Southport to keep
all existing customers even if they are not currently in the city limits. Mr.
Isenberg said that the county will not agree to a sewer service district.
Alderman Allen make a recommendation to hire an independent engineering
consultant to oversee the process to ensure the best interest of the City.
Alderman Lombardi agreed that the City is should hire an engineer to oversee
the process. Mr. Isenberg said the DEQ is overseeing the project in some degree
to protect the investment and cost. Mr. Isenberg said that Mr. Styers also
recommended that the City hire an engineer that would oversee the plans, bids,
and coordination with the county.
Motion to approve entering into the West Brunswick Regional Wastewater System
sewer regional participant agreement with Brunswick County; and
To authorize the City manager and the City Attorneys to negotiate any minor
revisions to the agreement that improve and clarify the rights of the city so
long as the substantive terms of the agreement are not altered; and
To authorize the Mayor to execute said agreement upon advice of the City
Manager and City Attorneys by Alderman Allen, second by Alderman Davis.
Unanimous vote; motion carried
Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller provided comments as stated:
“The deliberation about the future of Southport's sewer system has been a long
and protracted conversation with stops and starts.
Relying on experts to guide our decisions regarding a 25,000,000-dollar
project.
First, to go with the County, then build our own, and now resuming the
negotiations with the County.
The citizens of Southport have overwhelmingly voiced their support for the city
to buy sewer capacity from the county instead of building our own treatment
plant.
In January of this year, our newly elected Mayor and the Board reached out to
the County for what we believed would be a simple process of resuming the
previously negotiated contract with the terms the County had previously offered
the City.
Unfortunately, over the months that have followed, we learned that the
Brunswick County Commissioners were not offering the previous terms of the
contract to the citizens of Southport.
The previous contract written by the County had advantages for the County and
advantages for the City.
Among them, Southport gave the County a portion of our service area within our
city limits and for Southport ...Southport was supposed to retain Southport's
Sewer District designation.
It is important for Southport to retain our sewer district...first... economy
of scale.
As our city grows, and we expand our sewer infrastructure, just like with the
County, long term, the maintenance and service becomes more affordable.
Secondly ... the only carrot Southport has to offer development for voluntary
annexation, is sewer and without a designated sewer district ....as development
continues outside of our city limits, but in the ETJ communities that do not
annex into the city will not be contributing city taxes
to maintain our city's resources. For example, future development on Robert
Ruark, which is at the edge of our city limits, in the Extra Territorial
Jurisdiction or ETJ as it's called, with a planned 200 homes will be using our
city's infrastructure, sidewalks, roads, our city's parks and facilities. If
the developers do not annex into the city, those 200 properties will be using
resources but not contributing taxes necessary to help maintain them.
Southport's future zoning decisions and what type of future development happens
within the ETJ is a separate issue from retaining a sewer district designation.
The Southport Sewer district was originally approved by Brunswick County
Commissioners to give Southport the opportunity to grow. It appears that
according to the proposed terms of the contract now being offered by the
county; Southport will be competing with Brunswick County for sewer customers,
even in the Extra Territorial Jurisdiction, the onemile area immediately
outside our city limits that is under the jurisdiction of Southport's Unified
Development Ordinance. It's worth noting that in the past, if Southport thought
the County could better serve a community, Southport allowed the County to
provide service.
Without growing our tax base, the limited number of actual Southport tax payers
within the existing city limits, approximately less than four square miles,
will continue to have the sole responsibility to maintain the city now and into
the future. A future that most certainly will result in higher and higher taxes
for the small base of Southport's tax payers to meet the ever-growing demands
of development outside the city limits utilizing the city's infrastructure and
facilities. Most Southport citizens are surprised to learn that Robert Ruark
and Jabbertown Road are not within Southport’s City limits and do not pay city
taxes.
The Southport waste water project is going to cost Southport tax payers roughly
25 million dollars. It has been a long process...and I certainly appreciate
that the Brunswick County Commissioners are fatigued with the process and our
due diligence. And quite honestly, I can understand their frustration. With
that said, it is in the long term best interest of the citizens of Southport
and ultimately Brunswick County to allow Southport to retain the ETJ as the
designated sewer district.”
I would ask the city manager that before you sign the contract, please reach
out to the County Manager to ask the Brunswick County Commissioners just once
more to please reconsider their refusal and allow the citizens of Southport to
retain the Extra Territorial Jurisdiction, the ETJ as the city's sewer
district.
I support the motion to pursue an agreement with the County to join the
county's regional sewer treatment system for the benefits that come with
economy of scale and also with the knowledge that the City of Southport would
be better served if Brunswick County would allow Southport to have a smaller
designated sewer district that included the ETJ, the area within a mile of our
city limits that is under the jurisdiction of Southport's Unified Development
Ordinance.”
There being no further business Alderman Allen made a motion to adjourn, second
by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Adjournment at approximately 2:51 P.M.
Mayor, Joseph P. Hatem
               Attest:   Clerk, Tanya Shannon   
***** See exhibit (A) for comments by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller.
Exhibit A
The deliberation about the future of Southport’s sewer system has been a long
and protracted conversation with stops and starts. Relying on experts to guide
our decisions regarding a 25,000,000 dollar project.
First, to go with the County, then build our own, and now resuming the
negotiations with the County.
The citizens of Southport have overwhelmingly voiced their support for the city
to buy sewer capacity from the county instead of building our own treatment
plant.
In January of this year, our newly elected Mayor and the Board reached out to
the County for what we believed would be a simple process of resuming the
previously negotiated contract with the terms the County had previously offered
the City.
Unfortunately, over the months that have followed, we learned that the
Brunswick County Commissioners were not offering the previous terms of the
contract to the citizens of Southport.
The previous contract written by the County had advantages for the County and
advantages for the City. Among them, Southport gave the County a portion of our
service area within our city limits and for Southport…Southport was supposed to
retain Southport’s Sewer District designation.
It is important for Southport to retain our sewer district…first… economy of
scale. As our city grows, and we expand our sewer infrastructure, just like
with the County, long term, the maintenance and service becomes more
affordable.
Secondly… the only carrot Southport has to offer development for voluntary
annexation, is sewer and without a designated sewer district ….as development
continues outside of our city limits, but in the ETJ communities that do not
annex into the city will not be contributing city taxes to maintain our city’s
resources. For example, future development on Robert Ruark which is at the edge
of our city limits, in the Extra Territorial Jurisdiction or ETJ as it’s
called, with a planned 200 homes will be using our city’s infrastructure,
sidewalks, roads, our city’s parks and facilities. If the developers do not
annex into the city, those 200 properties will be using resources but not
contributing taxes necessary to help maintain them. Southport’s future zoning
decisions and what type of future development happens within the ETJ is a
separate issue from retaining a sewer district designation.
The Southport Sewer district was originally approved by Brunswick County
Commissioners to give Southport the opportunity to grow. It appears that
according to the proposed terms of the contract now being offered by the
county, Southport will be competing with Brunswick County for sewer customers,
even in the Extra Territorial Jurisdiction, the one-mile area immediately
outside our city limits that is under the jurisdiction of Southport’s Unified
Development Ordinance. It’s worth noting that in the past, if Southport thought
the County could better serve a community, Southport allowed the County to
provide service.
Without growing our tax base, the limited number of actual Southport tax payers
within the existing city limits, approximately less than four square miles,
will continue to have the sole responsibility to maintain the city now and into
the future. A future that most certainly will result in higher and higher taxes
for the small base of Southport’s tax payers to meet the ever growing demands
of development outside the city limits utilizing the city’s infrastructure and
facilities. Most Southport citizens are surprised to learn that Robert Ruark
and Jabbertown Road are not within Southport’s City limits and do not pay city
taxes.
The Southport waste water project is going to cost Southport tax payers roughly
25 million dollars. It has been a long process…and I certainly appreciate that
the Brunswick County Commissioners are fatigued with the process and our due
diligence. And quite honestly, I can understand their frustration. With that
said, it is in the long term best interest of the citizens of Southport and
ultimately Brunswick County to allow Southport to retain the ETJ as the
designated sewer district.
I would ask the city manager that before you sign the contract, please reach
out to the County Manager to ask the Brunswick County Commissioners just once
more to please reconsider their refusal and allow the citizens of Southport to
retain the Extra Territorial Jurisdiction, the ETJ as the city’s sewer
district.
I support the motion to pursue an agreement with the County to join the
county’s regional sewer treatment system for the benefits that come with
economy of scale and also with the knowledge that the City of Southport would
be better served if Brunswick County would allow Southport to have a smaller
designated sewer district that included the ETJ, the area within a mile of our
city limits that is under the jurisdiction of Southport’s Unified Development
Ordinance.
NOVEMBER 12, 2020
Regular Meeting Minutes
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  Regular Meeting Minutes
COMMUNITY BUILDING November 12, 2020; 6:00 P.M.
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
Present:   Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor Pro Tem Karen Mosteller, Aldermen Marc
Spencer, Thomas Lombardi, Lora Sharkey and John Allen.
Absent:   Alderman Lowe Davis.
Staff Present:   Gordon Hargrove, City Manager Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
Tanya Shannon, City Clerk Thomas Lloyd, City Planner
Tori Deviney, Administrative Assistant
Heather Hemphill, Director Parks and Recreation
David Fox Pubic Services Director
Tom Stanley, Public Services Assistant Director
Scott Rogers. Finance Administration Kate Marshall, Codes Enforcement Ralph
Treadway, Battalion Fire Chief Todd Coring, Police Department Chief
Randy Jones, Public information/ Tourism Director
Lisa Anderson, Public Information Officer/Videographer
A)   Call to order by Mayor Joseph P. Hatem at 6:00 P.M.
B)   Invocation was led by Mayor Joseph P. Hatem.
C)   The Pledge of Allegiance was led by Mayor Joseph P. Hatem.
Ethics Statement: Mayor Hatem stated, “if any member of the Board knows of any
conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with respect
to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
D)   Public Comment:
All email and letters submitted to the Mayor, The Board of Aldermen, Clerk, and
Staff will be read in public comment and kept on file with the Clerk’s Office
and will be included in the minutes in their entirety. Also, full audio/video
is available on the City’s website or requested by the City Clerk.
1.   Mr. Woody Wilson, 502 W. Brunswick Street, spoke in favor of keeping the
reversed traffic flow on Short Street. He said that people are still trying to
get used to the change but overall, he feels it is a success. He also applauded
the Police Department for their dedication to the community.
2.   Mr. Rich Alt, 6165 Cottage Creek Road, spoke of his concerns regarding
Capital Power Inc. (CPI).
3.   Mr. Hank Troscianiec, Cameron Troscianiec, and Eric Hedbloom state that
they came in support of Eric’s goal of achieving his merit badge with the Boys
Scouts of America.
4.   Mr. Robert Creech, 426 W. Brunswick Street, stated that he supports the
Short Street reverse traffic change and feels like it is much safer for
pedestrians and only a minor inconvenience to motorist. He also asked for an
update on the progress of approval to replace the 50% of the City Dock; he
would like to see it begin repairs.
5.   Mr. G.W. & Ms. Marla Smith, 217 Short Street, submitted an email that
applauded the Mayor and the Board of Aldermen for the change in the new one-way
traffic direction on Short Street. He said that the street is much safer now.
6.   Mr. Buddy Barnes & Ms. Debbie Barnes, 425 W. West St., submitted an email
that was read in support of keeping the reversed direction of Short Street.
E)   Motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller to approve the agenda with an
amendment to add the budget summary as item nine (9), second by Alderman
Lombardi. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
F)   Special Recognitions:
1.   Mayor Hatem gave applause and special recognition to all Veterans. Mayor
Hatem then read the Veterans Day Proclamation:
PROCLAMATION
VETERANS DAY November 11, 2020
WHEREAS, the freedoms we enjoy as Americans have been purchased and maintained
at a high price throughout our history; and
WHEREAS, since the establishment of the original 13 states, Americans have been
willing to fight and die to preserve their individual rights as guaranteed in
the United States Constitution and the Bill of Rights; and
WHEREAS, we owe a great debt to those who have served in defense of this
nation; and
WHEREAS, throughout the generations, their sacrifices have preserved our unique
form of government dedicated to human rights and respect for the individual;
and
WHEREAS, for many, that sacrifice ended in permanent injury or death, yet their
spirit remains in continued preservation of our freedoms and the promise of
liberty established as an example for all oppressed persons of the world; and
WHEREAS, in honor of these dedicated men and women, we pledge continued defense
of our nation so that their sacrifice will stand before the entire world as a
tribute to the spirit and determination of people dedicated to the principals
of freedom and democracy.
NOW, THEREFORE, I, Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor of the City of Southport do hereby
call upon the citizenry of the City of Southport to participate in services and
to observe the eleventh hour of the eleventh day of the eleventh month with
expressions of gratitude to all veterans known to them and the further extend
this gratitude to the families of deceased veterans and to solemnly remember
the sacrifices of all those who fought so valiantly, on the seas, in the air,
and on foreign shores, to preserve our heritage of freedom. Let us re-
consecrate ourselves to the task of promoting an enduring peace so that their
efforts shall not have been in vain.
Dated this 12th day of November 2020.
Mayor, Joseph P. Hatem   Attest: Clerk, Tanya Shannon
Mayor Hatem acknowledged American Diabetes Month and then read the Proclamation
in recognition of outstanding service of Police Officers:
PROCLAMATION
RECOGNITION OF OUTSTANDING SERVICE OF SOUTHPORT LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS
NOVEMBER 12, 2020
WHEREAS, for generations the brave men and women of the City of Southport
Police Department have answered the call to serve and protect our communities.
Our Law Enforcement Officers embody the courage and honor that represent the
best of the City of Southport; and
WHEREAS, in moments of danger and desperation, the first people we turn to are
Law Enforcement Officers. These often-unsung heroes risk their lives so that we
can live in peace and security; and
WHEREAS, enduring long shifts in dangerous and unpredictable circumstances our
Law Enforcement Officers demonstrate remarkable self-control and operate under
extreme pressure. They deal with complex, challenging situations and the worst
elements of humanity in the underbelly of society; and
WHEREAS, we owe dutiful respect and humble gratitude to the City of Southport’s
Police Officers who work tirelessly to protect and sacrifice so much to
maintain and defend civil order in our community; and
WHEREAS, there comes times that Police Officers not only have to protect the
City of Southport, but also become instruments of compassion for those who
suffer from mental illness, depression, abuse and suicidal situations; and
WHEREAS, Patrol Sergeant Wigmore and Officer Peterson went above and beyond
their call of duty to help save a person from taking their own life on October
29, 2020; and
NOW THEREFORE, I. Joseph P. Hatem, by virtue of the authority vested in me as
Mayor of the City of Southport, do herby express sincere thanks to:
Patrol Sergeant Wigmore, Officer Peterson and all Southport Law Enforcement
Officers who wear the badge and are selfless public servants putting themselves
in harm’s way to keep us safe and ask that citizens join me in giving these
dedicated professionals the support and appreciation they deserve.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I hereunto set my hand and caused the Official Seal of the
City of Southport, to be affixed this 12th day of November 2020.
Mayor, Joseph P. Hatem Attest: Clerk, Tanya Shannon
Consent Agenda
1.   Approval of the September 23, 2020 Special UDO Meeting Minutes. Approval
of the October 8, 2020 Regular Meeting Minutes, and approval of the October 16,
2020 Special Meeting Minutes. ( Clerk, Tanya Shannon)
2.   Dedication of Right of Way of Extension of E. West Street. (Attorney, Mike
Isenberg)
3.   Resolution directing the Clerk to investigate the Sufficiency of
Annexation Petition; 1208 N. Caswell Ave: Receipt of Annexation. (City Planner,
Lloyd)
A motion was made by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller to approve the consent agenda,
second by Alderman Allen.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Agenda
1.   Auditor Presentation by Mr. Alan W. Thompson. Mr. Thompson provided the
Board with the audit report that is also available on the City’s website. He
stated in general that that the fund balance(s) are increasing, and the debts
are decreasing, and he pointed out the improvement in the City’s financial
condition.
2.   Public Hearing and Consideration 1151 N. Caswell Avenue Annexation.
Mayor Hatem opened the public hearing and called on the City Planner.
City Planner, Mr. Thomas Lloyd gave an overview if the property that is located
on N. Caswell Avenue, in between W. 12th and W. 14th Street. He said the size
of the property is .14 acres (6,121.86 sf) and it is currently vacant and is
zoned multifamily. Mr. Lloyd said the applicants, Wilbur & Ellen Mathis are
interested in annexation in order to have access to City Water & Sewer service.
The City Clerk verified the sufficiency of the petition at the October 8th
meeting.
No questions or comments. Mayor Hatem closed the hearing for the public
hearing.
A motion was made by Alderman Sharkey to approve the annexation ordinance for
1151 N. Caswell Avenue, second by Alderman Spencer. Unanimous vote; motion
carried.
3.   Public Hearing and Consideration for 116 E. 13th Street Zoning Map
Amendment.
Mayor Hatem opened the public hearing and called on the City Planner.
Mr. Lloyd gave the background of the proposed zoning map amendment. He said the
zoning map amendment application is for a .46 acre (20,212.25 sf) tract in the
ETJ owned by Christopher Eckert and Katherine Narron at 116 E. 13th St. Mr.
Lloyd said It is currently zoned BD and the applicant would like to rezone the
property to R-10. He said that the property is noncontiguous to the City Limits
and is currently undergoing consideration for annexation. Mr. Lloyd explained
that the Planning Board reviewed the zoning map amendment application at their
September 17th and October 15th meetings. He said the Planning Board voted to
recommend approval of the proposed zoning map amendment and stated that the
proposed amendment is consistent with the overall goals, objectives, and
policies of the Land Use Plan.
No questions or comments. Mayor Hatem closed the hearing for the public
hearing.
A motion was made by Alderman Allen to adopt the ordinance approving the zoning
map amendment for 116 E. 13th Street, second by Alderman Sharkey. Unanimous
vote; motion carried.
4.   Consideration of Annexation Petition; Public Hearing was on October 8th
for 116 E. 13th Street.
Mr. Lloyd gave the background of the property ( also referenced above) located
on the corner of E 13th and N. Atlantic. He said the property is currently
vacant and is currently zoned business district.
He said the property is noncontiguous to the City Limits. Mr. Lloyd said the
Board heard from the public hearing at the October 8th meeting but delayed the
consideration on the request of the applicant.
No questions or comments.
Motion to approve the annexation ordinance for 116 E. 13th Street by Alderman
Spencer, second by
Alderman Allen. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
5.   New Performance Appraisal System.
City Manager, Mr. Gordon Hargrove, provided a handout of the new performance
appraisal system and asked the Board to review it and discuss it later.
Alderman Sharkey asked if the appraisal system will include training or a
familiarization process for the employees. Mr. Hargrove said that each
department head will be trained.
6.   Up Your Arts Agreement Phase 2:
Mr. John Keiffer, on behalf of Chairman Mr. Robert Carroll and the Board of
Directors with Up Your Arts presented a draft memorandum of understanding (MOU)
to re-purpose Southport’s former city hall building on Moore Street into a
community based creative and preforming arts center. He explained the phase one
agreement was entered into with the City of Southport last year to allow UYA to
conduct feasibility studies. Mr. Keiffer said the membership of the board will
be selected from various stakeholders throughout the greater Southport
community , including representatives from civic organizations such as Downtown
Southport, Inc., the Southport-Oak Island Chamber of Commerce, the Brunswick
Arts Council, and the Southport Historical Society.
Mayor Hatem asked how the hazardous materials from the old building will be
disposed of. Mr. Keiffer said that a remediation team will be implemented to
ensure that all hazardous materials are disposed of properly.
Alderman Spencer inquired about all past police records, evidence and other
personal information. Manager Hargrove said that the building was covered in
toxic mold and he was unsure if there was anything left inside that was
salvageable.
Mr. Hargrove asked the Board if they were ready to vote on continuing the
agreement with Up Your Arts for repurposing the Old City Hall.
A motion was made by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller to have the City attorney review
the memorandum of agreement and report to the Board before a decision was made,
second by Alderman Lombardi. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
7.   Discussion on the advantages/disadvantages of the Short Street reversal.
City Manager Mr. Hargrove stated that the reversal of Short Street’s one way
traffic pattern has improved the safety for pedestrians, bicyclists and other
non-motorist. However, he said that some people are confused and do not realize
that the traffic flow has been reversed.
Alderman Sharkey asked if there were any complaints, accidents or factual data
that has negatively impacted the reversed flow.
Alderman Allen said that pedestrian safety has improved with the reversal of
Short Street, but more awareness needs to be brought to motorists of the
change. He is in favor of the permanent change.
Police Chief Todd Coring stated that he feels the safety aspect has been met
but complaints with the confusion on the change have been noted. He said more
public awareness needs to be brought to the direction change, such as flashing
warning signs, patrol officers, and other signage.
Alderman Sharkey said there is a positive accomplishment with the traffic
change other than the fact that some people are not aware of the change. Mayor
Pro Tem Mosteller thanked Staff and agreed with Alderman Sharkey. She supports
the permanent change.
A motion was made by Alderman Allen to permanently keep Short Street in the
reversed direction, second by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller. Unanimous vote; motion
carried.
8.   Police Bike Patrol Feedback.
Police Chief Mr. Todd Coring gave an update on the bike patrol. He said that
the police department has received a lot of positive feedback from the
community and they will continue to utilize this method of patrol.
9.   Budget Summary.
Mr. Scott Rogers, Finance Specialist gave an update on the budget. He stated
that the City overall is in good shape. He said the general fund revenues are
currently at roughly 22% and 25 % total for the quarterly update.
City of Southport Budget Summary                               Percent complete
Quarterly Summary 09/30/2020                  ACUTAL QTD       25.00%
                             BUDGET           w/ENCUMBERANCE
General Fund Revenues        $   8,086,019.$   1,782,463.22.04376764
General Fund Expenditures    $   8,086,019.$   2,465,862.30.49537945
Electric Fund Revenues       $   6,856,231.$   2,388,916.34.84300398
 
Electric Fund Expenditures    $   6,856,231.$   1,795,932.26.19417243
Water Sewer Fund Revenues     $   4,520,004.$   1,392,998.30.8185214
Water Sewer Fund Expenditures $   4,520,004.$   908,348.6020.09619018
Alderman Allen thanked the City Manager, Finance Director Trexler and staff for
getting the report completed in a timely manner. He asked how these general
fund figures compare to previous years. Mr. Rogers said that the it is
difficult to do a comparison at this time, but he feels like the funds are in
outstanding condition considering the crisis the past year has been.
Committee Reports:
1.   Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller, liaison to the Planning Board, said that the
Planning Board is continuing to work on updating the Southport CAMA Land Use
Plan (also known as the comprehensive plan). She announced that citizens can
obtain more information the City’s website. She announced a public hearing is
scheduled for December 10th to review the changes.
2.   Alderman Lombardi, liaison to the Beautification Committee, stated that
regular clean up continues and the wooden boat was repositioned after Hurricane
Isaias moved it and landscaped around it. Also, he said that the committee did
a tour around the city to get some ideas and see areas that need improvement.
He said they also checked all the Christmas decorations to ensure they were
functioning properly.
3.   Alderman Sharkey with the Rate Committee announced that the next meeting
will be on November 20th to discuss solar polices. She stated that Mr. Ellie
Pittenger, electrical superintendent with the city should attend.
4.   Alderman Spencer with the 4th of July Committee said that he is looking at
how to streamline the 4th of July process. He said they are looking at the
quality of the festivities versus the quantity.
Manager’s Report:
Mr. Hargrove introduced Ms. Heather Hemphill, Parks and Recreation Director to
give an update on the city dock. Ms. Hemphill said that the application for the
approval of 50% repair was submitted to CAMA and it should be approved at any
time.
Alderman Allen asked if the goal is to have all of the dock repaired to the
previous size and configuration. Ms. Hemphill answered yes that is the long
term goal but, it is a slow process that has been ongoing for four years. She
said it will be repaired to its original condition prior to Hurricane Matthew.
Mr. Hargrove said that a ditch cleaning project that is being funded by a grant
has begun. At Bonnets Creek the culvert will be cleaned out beginning at
Leonard Street and will go 725 ft in - land. He said this will drastically
improve the stormwater flow. Mr. Hargrove said in addition to that the City is
going to clean the mouth of Cottage Creek that empties into the marsh. He said
the scope and size of the project could change slightly after review by CAMA
and the Army Corp of Engineers. Mr. Hargrove said that the wood chips at Taylor
Field have been mostly removed and then the new park will begin construction.
He announced the Board of Aldermen will be taking a tour on December 11th of
the Brunswick Wastewater Treatment Plant and there will be a published notice
to the public.
Mayor’s Comments:
Mayor Hatem encouraged everyone to review the State Port Pilot’s recognition of
Veterans Day and thanked all those who have served our country. He reminded
everyone about the leaflets sent out in the mail. He encouraged everyone to
review the handout and return it to the City to receive emails and updates from
the City including a monthly report. Mayor Hatem announced he is participating
in “No Shave November” to bring awareness to all cancers and particular men’s
health and reminded all men to get a prostate screening. He reminded everyone
that Governor Roy Cooper has reduced the limit of mass gatherings to 10 in
response to the increase of Covid-19 cases. He said we must be diligent in
protecting our health. Mayor Hatem updated everyone that a sewer agreement with
Brunswick County has been approved and signed. He thanked everyone who
participated in the process of coming to an agreement. He said that a Mayor
Advisory Committee regarding the Yacht Basin Overlay District is being
established. He invited all citizens to participate in the meetings. He hoped
the plans for the district will be completed by March 2021. Mayor Hatem wished
everyone a safe and happy Thanksgiving.
Board Comments:
1.   Alderman Allen stated that he wants the City to keep maintaining
transparency and encouraged everyone to continue checking the City’s website
for updates and participate in receiving email updates from the City. He said
that he welcomes all comments and concerns from the community. He thanked past
Boards and Staff for their years of service for all the hard work with helping
guide the City to a good budget report.
2.   Alderman Spencer thanked the City’s Public Information Officers Randy
Jones ,Lisa Anderson and Sharon Venis for continuing to keep the community
aware thru digital technology, but he recommended that the City invest in a
better quality audio/ visual presentation. Mayor Hatem said that the Public
Information Department is currently working on updating the system. He welcomed
Mr. Lee Hinnant reporter with the State Port Pilot and thanked the Boy Scouts
in attendance and their dedication to teaching good citizenship.
3.   Alderman Sharkey congratulated Finance Director Ms. Melanie Trexler and
Staff for getting the audit report out in an efficient manner and appreciated
the great report. She announced that she is participating in the 2040 Vision of
Brunswick County survey and encouraged all to go the county website and
participate. She said that she would like to see more strategic planning
incorporated in the long term plans for Southport. Alderman Sharkey said she is
also looking forward to working with Up Your Arts.
4.   Alderman Lombardi thanked Up Your Arts and their success and hard work.
Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller stated that she is looking forward to working with the
county in the sewer agreement. She also wanted to ensure that citizens were
aware of the comments made at the Special Meeting held on 10/16 for the
discussion of the agreement with Brunswick County. She said
“ The deliberation about the future of Southport’s sewer system has been a long
and protracted conversation with stops and starts. Relying on experts to guide
our decisions regarding a 25,000,000 dollar project. First, to go with the
County, then build our own, and now resuming the negotiations with the County.
The citizens of Southport have overwhelmingly voiced their support for the city
to buy sewer capacity from the county instead of building our own treatment
plant. In January of this year, our newly elected Mayor and the Board reached
out to the County for what we believed would be a simple process of resuming
the previously negotiated contract with the terms the County had previously
offered the City. Unfortunately, over the months that have followed, we learned
that the Brunswick County Commissioners were not offering the previous terms of
the contract to the citizens of Southport. The previous contract written by the
County had advantages for the County and advantages for the City. Among them,
Southport gave the County a portion of our service area within our city limits
and for Southport…Southport was supposed to retain Southport’s Sewer District
designation. It is important for Southport to retain our sewer district…first…
economy of scale. As our city grows, and we expand our sewer infrastructure,
just like with the County, long term, the maintenance and service become more
affordable.
Secondly…the only carrot Southport has to offer development for voluntary
annexation, is sewer and without a designated sewer district as development
continues outside of our city limits, but in the ETJ communities that do not
annex into the city will not be contributing city taxes to maintain our city’s
resources. For example, future development on Robert Ruark, which is at the
edge of our city limits, in the Extra Territorial Jurisdiction or ETJ as it’s
called, with a planned 200 homes will be using our city’s infrastructure,
sidewalks, roads, our city’s parks and facilities. If the developers do not
annex into the city, those 200 properties will be using resources but not
contributing taxes necessary to help maintain them. Southport’s future zoning
decisions and what type of future development happens within the ETJ is a
separate issue from retaining a sewer district designation.
The Southport Sewer district was originally approved by Brunswick County
Commissioners to give Southport the opportunity to grow. It appears that
according to the proposed terms of the contract now being offered by the
county, Southport will be competing with Brunswick County for sewer customers,
even in the Extra Territorial Jurisdiction, the one-mile area immediately
outside our city limits that is under the jurisdiction of Southport’s Unified
Development Ordinance. It’s worth noting that in the past, if Southport thought
the County could better serve a community, Southport allowed the County to
provide service.
Without growing our tax base, the limited number of actual Southport tax payers
within the existing city limits, approximately less than four square miles,
will continue to have the sole responsibility to maintain the city now and into
the future. A future that most certainly will result in higher and higher taxes
for the small base of Southport’s tax payers to meet the ever growing demands
of development outside the city limits utilizing the city’s infrastructure and
facilities. Most Southport citizens are surprised to learn that Robert Ruark
and Jabbertown Road are not within Southport’s City limits and do not pay city
taxes.
The Southport waste water project is going to cost Southport tax payers roughly
25 million dollars. It has been a long process, and I certainly appreciate that
the Brunswick County Commissioners are fatigued with the process and our due
diligence. And quite honestly, I can understand their frustration. With that
said, it is in the long term best interest of the citizens of Southport and
ultimately Brunswick County to allow Southport to retain the ETJ as the
designated sewer district. I supported the motion to pursue an agreement with
the County to join the county’s regional sewer treatment system for the
benefits that come with economy of scale and also with the knowledge that the
City of Southport would be better served if Brunswick County would allow
Southport to have a smaller designated sewer district that included the ETJ,
the area within a mile of our city limits that is under the jurisdiction of
Southport’s Unified Development Ordinance. “
There being no further business, questions or concerns, motion to adjourn by
Alderman Lombardi, second by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller. Unanimous vote; motion
carried.
Adjournment at approximately 8:48 P.M.
Mayor, Joseph P. Hatem
Attest; Clerk, Tanya Shannon
DECEMBER 10, 2020
Regular Meeting Minutes
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  Regular Meeting Minutes
COMMUNITY BUILDING December 10, 2020; 6:00 P.M.
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
Present:   Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor Pro Tem Karen Mosteller, Aldermen Marc
Spencer, Thomas Lombardi, Lora Sharkey, John Allen, and Lowe Davis.
Absent:   None.
Staff Present:
   Gordon Hargrove, City Manager
   Tanya Shannon, City Clerk
   Thomas Lloyd, City Planner
   Wayne Strickland, Building Inspector
   John Micheletto, Code Administrator
   Tori Deviney, Administrative Assistant
   David Fox, Pubic Services Director
   Tom Stanley, Public Services Assistant Director
   Ellie Pittenger, Electrical Superintendent
   Kate Marshall, Animal Control/Code Enforcement
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
   Ralph Treadway, Battalion Fire Chief
   Tasha Jackson, Administration/ Fire Department
   Todd Coring, Police Department Chief
   Randy Jones, Communications/ Tourism Director
   Lisa Anderson, Communications Assistant/Videographer
A)   Call to order by Mayor Joseph P. Hatem at 6:00 P.M.
   Moment of silence in memory of Chris May’s mother and Heather Hemphill’s
father.
B)   Invocation was led by Mayor Joseph P. Hatem.
•   Alderman Allen read the song lyrics for “Pray for America” in response to
the COVID-19 pandemic.
   Ethics Statement: Mayor Hatem stated, “if any member of the Board knows of
any conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest with
respect to matters on the agenda, to please so state it at this time.”
C)   Pledge of Allegiance was led by Mayor Joseph P. Hatem.
D)    Public Comment:
   Mr. Rich Alt, 6165 cottage Creek Rd, gave a compliment to the City Staff for
receiving a great audit. He applauded the corrections that were needed from the
previous audit.
Consent Agenda
E)
   Motion to approve the November 12, 2020 regular meeting minutes by Mayor Pro
Tem Mosteller, second by Alderman Thomas Lombardi. Unanimous vote; motion
carried.
Agenda
   A motion was made by Alderman Allen to approve the agenda, second by
Alderman Sharkey.
F)   Special Recognitions:
   Check Presentation for $5,000 from Downtown Southport, Inc. for the Weather
Tower Restoration Project.
Agenda
   1)   
   Mayor Hatem opened the public hearing for: Amendment of the 2014 CAMA Land
Use Plan and gave thanks to the
Planning Board Chairman, Liaisons, Members and Mr. Wes MacLeod for their hard work.
   City Planner, Mr. Thomas Lloyd, gave an overview of the draft for the City
of Southport Land Use Plan. He said it was updated and unanimously recommended
for approval by the City’s Planning Board and subsequently reviewed by the
Board of Aldermen and Planning Board in several joint work sessions. Mr. Lloyd
said upon the review and adoption by the Board of Aldermen, the plan amendment
will be sent to the Division of Coastal Management for certification.
•   Public Comment:
   Mr. Robin Rose, Southport Marina owner, 606 W. West St. Mr. Rose has
concerns regarding the proposed expansion at the Southport Marina. He said the
property is zoned in two districts (business and open space), and he wants the
City to work with him on developing in part of the open district, he said that
it was zoned in the business district when he purchased the property.
•   There were no other questions or comments from the public. Mayor Hatem
closed the public hearing.
   Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller referred to Mr. Rose’s comment regarding the Open
Space District on the Southport Marina property. She said that the zoning on
the City’s Land Use Plan was picked up in 2014. She asked if there was a
property agreement with the Marina regarding the 10 ft. public easement
along the property line, next to the adjacent property owner. She said that
public easements are designated in the open space district.
   Mr. MacLeod, Senior Planner with the Cape Fear Council of Governments replied that because the Marina is in the Light Industrial Zoning District in its entirety, it would not necessarily preclude the City from having Open
Space in this area. He said that if it was the pleasure of the Board for that
particular area to remain in open space that it could be done.
   Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller asked if this would inhibit the Marina from use of
the property in the
Business District. Mr. MacLeod said it would not. Mr. Macleod reiterated that conflict comes in when a major Cama Permit application is submitted. He said that if the area is designated in the Open Space district the Coastal Division Management would deny the permit.
   Alderman Davis asked for clarification of the specific area in discussion.
Alderman Sharkey stated the vision for this area located near the creek off W.
West St; is to allow the City to access the creek for a kayak launch and use
the area for observing nature. She explained that additionally there would
be parking adjacent to the area that would also include business for the
Southport Marina. Alderman Sharkey explained that although the Marina had
offered to put in up to $50,000.00 to help with the construction, the City must
provide the rest to complete the plans. She said if the area remains as
open space, and never becomes an area for the public to use then it would be
inhibiting the Marina’s use of the property.
   Mayor Hatem said the City Attorney Mr. Mike Isenberg said that a way to
reconcile the situation could be to adopt a resolution approving the City of
Southport’s Land Use Plan update with an amendment that tax parcel id
# 237LF021 be designated as light commercial instead of open space. Mayor Hatem
stated that he thinks this could rectify the situation without taking away the
ability for the City to use the designated area.
   Alderman Spencer said that he would like to prevent future problems with the
overlay on the
easement area. He would like to preserve the City’s right on that location.
   Alderman Davis would like the area designated open space because she said it
is the City’s right to use the easement that they own.
   Alderman Sharkey replied because the City has not taken the action to put
the kayak launch in yet. She asked what if the City defaults on this plan. She
said this would be binding the property owner to that zoning designation.
Alderman Sharkey said if the plan is implemented than the City could rezone
the property back to open space.
   Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller said that it was never discussed. Alderman Davis
asked if the area is zoned Light Commercial than effectively the Marina could
develop on this area. Alderman Allen replied that the Marina could not develop
on this area because the Marina has granted the City the easement. He said the
City is not taking away anything from the Marina. He said the Marina
voluntarily gave the City this area.
   Alderman Lombardi stated that the City owns this area and so it does not
make a difference whether it is zoned business or open space. The City is not
obligated to develop. Alderman Sharkey replied that the conflict raised is when
the Marina applied for a major permit and was denied because it is
inconsistent with the City’s zoning map. She
said this could also affect other parts of the land that they own.
   Mayor Pro Tem stated that part of the negotiation of the sale of the
property from the City to the Marina was to keep the easement that would be
used for City purposes. She said to remember that this about the Future Land
Use Map not about the zoning . She said the City needs to be consistent with
the zoning. Mayor Tem Mosteller said that all City Parks are zoned in open
space. She said that this is designated in open space to protect certain areas.
   Alderman Allen asked if the Marina had applied for major Cama permit for the
additional dry storage.
   Mr. MacLeod stated that he believed so, but the Coastal Management Division
was trying to determine a decision because there was inconsistency in the
City’s prior Land Use Plan that has now been updated and corrected.
   Alderman Allen made a motion that in the updated CAMA Land Use Plan and the
Future Land Use Map regarding parcel 237LF021, the City designate the portion
shown on the overall site plan for the Southport Marina Dry Stacks, a parking
area and where the dry stack building will be located be Light Commercial and
the remainder of that parcel be designated as Open Space”. Second by Alderman
Davis. Yay:
 Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller, Alderman Lombardi, and Alderman Spencer. Nay:
 Alderman Sharkey .
Motion carried 5-1.
   Alderman Sharkey recommended to change the language that is no longer used
on page 10 which was page 122 in the document; policy 3.7, discussion of
defined service area of water and sewer. She said because of the current
agreement with Brunswick County . She recommended to change the language
to read: “ Support extension of water and sewer outside of corporate limits in
accordance with the West Brunswick Regional Waste Water Service System
agreement dated November 2, 2020, and such extensions of service beyond
corporate limits are subject to annexation.” Alderman Sharkey recommended that
on page 16 which was page 127 in the document (bullet eight) to change
the sentence structure to read: “ to manage causes and sources of pollution to
protect all waters , while supporting their use in reasonable economic growth.”
She said also on page 24 (135 in the document), it needs to be “four primary
objectives (instead of three)”. She said #3 was “to provide a land use
plan form” was odd wording. She recommended ”land use model” instead. Also, she
recommended to remove the language for residential land use in open space.
   Mr. MacLeod reiterated that his understanding of this language (page 144)
that it was in reference to the second sentence stating that these categories
“include”. He said that was not picked up when open space was put into its own
category. He said the language does not impact any designation of use. He
said clarification could be made that this is no longer relevant.
   Motion to adopt the resolution approving the CAMA Land Use Plan with the
with the Future Land Use Map as amended and stated above on page 122, 126
and 135 by Alderman Sharkey, by Alderman Sharkey, second by
Aldreman Spencer. Unanimous vote motion carried.
   2)   Voluntary Contiguous Annexation Petition at 108 N. Caswell Avenue: 
      Motion approving the resolution fixing the date of, January 14, 2021 for
Voluntary Contiguous Annexation at 1208 N. Caswell Avenue by Mayor Pro Tem
Mosteller, second by Alderman Allen. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   3)   Discussion of land acquisition for Nature Park:
      Alderman Sharkey gave the background for the City to acquire
approximately 160 acres off Ferry Rd. She stated this purchase could preserve a
natural habitat and provide stormwater protection and preserve wetlands. She
suggested that the City could sell part of the 444 acres at Sunny Point since
it is no longer needed. She recommended keeping a portion of the land to use
for storm debris and storage. Alderman Sharkey had spoken with Ms. Kacy Cook
with the Natural Resources Commission and she agreed to
assist with the potential sale and purchase of each property.
      Alderman Davis agreed with the sale of some of the acreage at Sunny Point
but cautioned on how the City should proceed with utilizing the proceeds.
      Motion by Alderman Sharkey to give authorization to Manager Hargrove to
obtain an appraisal for the 444 acres at Sunny Point and communicate with Ms.
Cook regarding the possible sale of the
property. Second by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   4)   Rate Committee recommendation to change the billing policy for solar customers:
      Alderman Sharkey gave an overview of the proposed policy revision. In
2014 the Board of Aldermen approved a solar policy. She said currently the City
has only a Buy All Sale All Metering policy
for residential solar customers. Customers have
asked for another option called Net Metering.
      The City’s Electrical Superintendent, Mr. Ellie Pittenger stated: The
adoption should have the term 'Rooftop' in the verbiage. The intent of the
adoption does not include 'solar farming'. Self-contained solar lighting would
not be considered 'solar farming'. BEMC is capable and ready to bill our solar
customers at the rates the City dictates, including any base rate increase (+$5
is typical for residential).
      The Net Metered buyback rate should reflect any discounted retail rate
the solar customer may be on through participation in Load Management.
Applications and related documentation should be similar to BEMC's solar net
metering program, such as (but not limited to): A) 'Proof of Insurance'
document from the customer should be required and updated annually. This is
typically updated at the end of each
Fiscal Year during the June 'True Up' with the solar customer, which is part of
the billing process.
      Alderman Sharkey made a motion on behalf of the Rate Committee to adopt
the policy to have net metering for rooftop solar customers, this includes the
base rate to BEMC, second by Mayor Pro
Tem Mosteller. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   5)   Discussion of tents/outdoor seating for businesses:
      Codes Administrator/ Animal Control Officer Ms. Kate Marshall stated that
she is looking for direction on how to proceed with the departments that are
getting continuous complaints about how some businesses are operating during
the Covid-19 pandemic. She said that she would like
recommendations on how to keep citizens safe and businesses operating.
      Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller recommended that the Staff and the City Attorney,
help create language for a permit process that could be formulated to
streamline and clearly give directions for businesses to operate
business outdoors safely during these challenging times.
      Mayor Hatem said that the City attorney suggested making an amendment to
the Ordinance 16-8 : Obstruction of Public Right of Ways. Mayor Pro Tem
Mosteller suggested not to amend the ordinance because this will be a
temporary emergency due to COVID-19.
      A motion was made by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller to authorize the City Staff
and City Attorney to draft language amending the emergency declaration to
provide an application process for temporary use of seating, tents,
heaters, and parking that will be provide safety to citizens, second by
Alderman Lombardi.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   6)   Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) review for Up Your Arts: 
      City Manager Hargrove gave an overview of the proposed understanding that
was reviewed and slightly amended to protect the City by the
City Manager and the City Attorney.
      Motion to approve the agreement as amended and stated by Alderman Allen,
second by Alderman Lombardi. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
   7)   Water Line Extension for Marina discussion and other preliminary request:
      City Manager Hargrove gave an overview of the request. He said the Marina
requested a water extension loop to area where the new dry storage was
developed. He stated that the City Ordinance is very clear that the developer
is responsible for extensions. He said it is questionable if the City would be
able to put out a fire with the existing low water pressure. Fire Battalion
Chief Treadway commented on the potential safety issues. Alderman Davis
confirmed that the City had a lot of dead ends. She said it would very
expensive to create other extensions that are requested. Mayor Pro Tem
Mosteller said the Ordinance is very clear. She said the developers decision to
expand is not a necessity. She said that it would not be fair to assist
the finance of this extension when the City needs to consider
other repairs that are needed.
      Alderman Davis asked if she needed to be recused from the vote because of
her location to the Marina. Mayor Hatem said only if she has a financial
gain from the Marina. She said she does not.
      Marina Owner, Mr. Rose stated that over the years he has discussed
improving the water pressure at this location with the Fire Department and
Public Works. He said that this would benefit the City as well. He wants to
partner with the City to extend the water lines. He said he would have an
estimated cost from an engineer soon.
      Alderman Sharkey asked Mr. Rose if this request had anything to do with
the vote on Rhett Street in October. Mr. Rose said no that he is making the
request to improve the water pressure for the City
and to keep his property safe.
      Alderman Allen stated the repair on Rhett Street was a
sewer line and not a water line.
      Mayor Hatem directed the Board with two options either to be a purist and
follow the Ordinance or to look for a mechanism for the City to negotiate with
the Marina by decreasing the tap fees by 50% and decreasing the building permit
fees to accommodate the extension cost.
      Alderman Sharkey said that
any policy adopted should be fair and consistent.
      Mayor Hatem directed the Board for a recommendation. It was the consensus
of the Board to follow a strict implement of the City Ordinance.
   8)   Smitty’s Sign Shoppe property discussion on sale of the easement: 
      City Planner Lloyd gave an overview of the request from Mr. Keys the
owner. Alderman Allen asked for clarification on the request and why is it
needed. Mr. Lloyd said there is conflict with the owner and his bank to receive
a loan without the sale of this easement. Alderman Allen suggested contacting
the bank and see if this is a necessity. It was the consensus of the Board to
have the City Planner investigate the purpose of
the request and have a further review before a decision is made.
   9)   Right of Way (ROW) Parking Discussion:
      Manager Hargrove addressed the issue and said that he was answering
Alderman Spencer’s question at the last meeting on how to proceed. He said the
plan is to look at the heavy offenders first and then put some teeth into the
ordinance for violations. He said that this would include heavy equipment and
big trucks that utilize a large space. Alderman Allen said this plan gives him
heartburn when thinking about preventing people from parking on the
easements. He said there would be no parking left in the city.
Alderman Davis said she would need to review
the language before a decision is made. Alderman Spencer commented that
multiple work vehicles, rotating boats, tractors and heavy equipment should
be mostly addressed. Alderman Mosteller suggested to continue the conversation
and to devise safety policies. Mayor asked if a committee should be formed for
discussion and brought back to the Board or continue discussion at the retreat.
Manager Hargrove said he is looking for suggestions on how to proceed with the
language to enforce the consistent violations. It was the consensus of the
Board to continue discussion at the Board retreat.
   10)   Howe Street Sidewalk Discussion:
      Mayor Hatem said that the sidewalk plan is from 9th Street to Famous Subs
Restaurant on Howe St. Public Services Assistant Director, Tom Stanley, gave an
overview of the project. He said that the Department of Transportation is
requiring a crosswalk at the intersection at 9th Street and Howe Street. He
said this is most likely because this location intersects two state roads and
leads to the Elementary School. The cost of hiring an engineer to include a
crosswalk was unexpected and the City did not budget for this. Mayor Pro Tem
Mosteller stated that the City has roads that need repair and that money
form the Powell Bill could be utilized for that. Alderman Allen suggested to
continue the conversation at the January retreat. Alderman Sharkey agreed to
put the project on hold and for the City not to spend any money at this
time. Manager Hargrove stated that he had tasked Staff with taking inventory of
the streets that need repair. It was the consensus of the Board to postpone a
decision until the Board retreat in January.
   11)   Employee Christmas bonus:
      Mayor Hatem thanked the Staff for their continuous hard work. Manager Hargrove said that the bonuses were budgeted for $500 per
full time employee.
      A motion to approve the City employees Christmas bonus by Alderman Davis,
second by Alderman Lombardi. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Committee Reports:
   Alderman Allen gave an update on the Yacht Basin Overlay District Committee.
He said the first meeting was held on December 2 nd . He stated that there is a
great group of people working together such as the business owners in that area
and residents. He said the first step is to create a plan for the Yacht
Basin area and then review the issues that occur with the CAMA Land Use Plan,
Zoning, Undeveloped Parcels, Rights of Way, Traffic Safety, Pedestrian Safety ,
Signage, Lighting, FEMA, stormwater issues, and drainage. He said the plan is
to start with a small area and then present it to the Planning Board
to formulate an ordinance. Then the ordinance will be then be presented to the
Board of Aldermen with public input. He said this ordinance will help with the
issues that the area is facing now. Alderman Allen continued that Mayor Hatem
has tasked the committee with having completed the task by Memorial Day 
(May 31, 2021).
   Alderman Davis gave an update on the Forestry Committee. She said the
committee had selected the 10 trees that are going to be planted. She said that
only nine required payment because the seller said that one was not up to par
in his opinion. She said as it grows it will get better. She stated that they
are live oaks and that the planting will begin over the winter.
   Alderman Lombardi congratulated the Beautification Committee for creating a
pollenated garden at Lowe White Park. He said the Committee received a
certificate of appreciation from the Monarch Butterfly Habitat for creating a
Monarch Capital. He thanked the Garden Club for their services at
the Visitor Center and around town.
Manager’s Report:
   City Manager Hargrove gave a summary of the budget. He said the reviews of
the tax property report at this date are at 48.11% collected. He said that last
year (2019) the City collected 46.90%. He said that he reviewed the amount of
funds left in each departments budget and how they are spending it. He
said that he is happy to report that each department is at an acceptable level.
   He gave an update on the City dock. He said that blanket permit has been
established for the maintenance and repair. He said the plan for the repairs is
held up in Raleigh and he is hoping for a reply at any time.
   Manager Hargrove said the request for quotes (RFQ) for the Weather Tower
Project are due by December 11, 2020. He said he will give an update in his
weekly report. He said Taylor Field has a little more wood chips to remove. He
said that the Taylor Field Park Project is still on target to begin development
on January 2, 2021. He thanked the Harper Family for their generous donation of
the land. Manager Hargrove also reminded everyone that the Board will be doing
the West Brunswick Treatment tour on December 11, 2020.
   Manger Hargrove asked Public Services Assistant Director to provide an
update on the Howe Street sewer project. Mr. Stanley said that breaking ground
should begin on December 11, 2020. This will begin between Nash Street and W.
West St.
Mayor’s Comments:
   Mayor Hatem thanked the First Lady for the Christmas décor for the meeting,
and Aldermen, and Staff for their hard work. He thanked the citizens for their
support of a new Mayor and a new Board. He said he is proud of the
accomplishments that have been made especially during the Covid-19 pandemic
and the hurricane. Mayor Hatem reminded everyone of the “Southport Christmas”,
a virtual tree lighting ceremony that can be seen on the City’s website. He
thanked everyone that was involved with the holiday events. He thanked the
Garden Club for the décor at the Garrison house. He thanked the Beautification
Committee for the wreaths around the City and the Tourism/ Communication and
Public Services Department for their help with creating a wonderful Christmas spirit. He reminded everyone to shop
in downtown Southport and the Village. He encouraged everyone to support the
local Restaurants and Businesses who have had a difficult year. He thanked DSI
and everyone who has donated to the Weather Tower restoration project. He gave
an update on the Covid-19 and said cases have increased. He
said he would provide an update soon on the vaccines and the City’s response.
   Mayor Hatem and the First Lady wished everyone a Merry
Christmas and Happy and Safe New Year.
Staff Reports:
   Staff reports were provided in the agenda packets.
   Alderman Davis requested that Police Chief Coring explain to the public the
various phone scams that people are receiving. Chief Coring said scams are
going on across the county. He said that Law Enforcement officers encourage
people not to respond to the various telephone calls, text messages and or
emails. He stated that if you are a victim of fraud to first check bank
accounts and contact your bank. He then said to contact the local Police
Department or the Sheriff’s Department. Chief Coring reminded everyone
to keep an eye on delivery packages during the holiday season.
Board Comments:
   Alderman Allen wished everyone a Merry Christmas and he encouraged people to
support the local charities and shop with a cop.
   Alderman Spencer applauded Mr. Strickland for his long time service as
Building Inspector. He thanked Ms. Kate Marshall, Animal Control/ Code
Enforcement Department for assistance with a school project
. He encouraged people to consider purchasing an engraved brick to
honor or memorialize someone.
   Aldreman Spencer welcomed the new pastor of Southport Baptist Church. He
concluded with “ Merry Christmas to all and to all a Goodnight.”
   Alderman Sharkey wished everyone a Merry Christmas and Happy New Year. She
said also she is looking forward to the Board retreat in January.
   Alderman Davis encouraged everyone to shop local and wished everyone a Merry
Christmas , Happy Hanukah and Happy New Year.
   Alderman Lombardi commented that during the process of updating the UDO
there was discussion on creating a manual for specifications on City streets,
curbs and sidewalks. He said that he would like more discussion on devising a
manual for these issues, such as code enforcement, parking, curbs,
sidewalks, lighting issues, degraded utility poles and concerns with parking
over delicate tree roots. He wished everyone a Merry Christmas and Happy
New Year.
   Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller said that this has been a difficult year for many
people, especially children and those in the service industry. She
wished everyone a safe and meaningful Holiday.
There being no further business, questions or concerns, motion to adjourn by
Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller, second by Alderman Sharkey.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Adjournment at approximately 9:34 P.M.
 
               
Mayor, Joseph P. Hatem
                                    
                     Attest; Clerk, Tanya Shannon
2021
JANUARY 14, 2021
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING JANUARY 14, 2021
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
Present:    Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor Pro Tem Karen Mosteller, Aldermen Marc
Spencer, Thomas Lombardi, Lora Sharkey, John Allen, and Lowe Davis.
Absent:    None.
Staff Present:
   Gordon Hargrove, City Manager
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
   Tanya Shannon, City Clerk
   Thomas Lloyd, City Planner
   Heather Hemphill, Parks and Recreations Director
   Tori Deviney, Administrative Assistant/ Permit Technician
   David Fox, Public Services Director
   Tom Stanley, Public Services Assistant Director
   Ellie Pittenger, Electrical Superintendent
   Kate Marshall, Animal Control/Code Enforcement
   Scott Rogers, Financial Specialist
   Ralph Treadway, Battalion Fire Chief
   Todd Coring, Police Department Chief
   Randy Jones, Communications/Tourism Director
   Lisa Anderson, Communications, Assistant Director
A) Call to order by Mayor Joseph P. Hatem at 6:00 P.M.
B) Invocation was led by Alderman Reverend Lowe Davis.
C) Pledge of Allegiance was led by Mayor Joseph P. Hatem.
Mayor Hatem gave an update on Covid-19 and the vaccinations.
Meetings are now open to the public. All email and letters submitted to the
Mayor, The Board of Aldermen, Clerk, and Staff will be read in public comment
and kept on file with the Clerk’s Office. Also, full audio/video is available
on the City’s website or requested by the City Clerk.
D) Public Comment:
   1.   Mr. Jim Powell, City of Southport Bald Head Island Transportation
Authority (BHITA) Board Appointee gave an update on the progress of the
Authority. He said the Authority was created by the Legislature and went into
effect in 2017. He said that after three years from its inception, the Bald
Head Island Transportation Authority has taken its largest step yet, achieving
the goal it was created to accomplish, which is to transition the island’s
ferry system from a private to public system.
   He said the authority’s 11-member board settled on a $47 million price that
is needed to acquire the ferry system.
   Mr. Powell said that after the post-closing transition period, the public
authority will own and operate a wide network of assets, including on the
mainland and on Bald Head Island.
   He said there will not be any cost to the City for the operation. However,
he said the City’s Planning Board will have to review the zoning requirements
for the 56 acres formerly known as Deep Point Marina.
   Alderman Davis asked Mr. Powell if he had specifics on what would be coming
to the City’s Planning Board. He said that he does not know the exact
specifications.
   Alderman Spencer wanted clarification that the 47 million dollars would
include the entire package for the Authority including the services on Bald
Head Island. Mr. Powell confirmed that the Authority would own everything
needed to operate in Southport and Bald Head Island.
   Alderman Allen asked if there was any financial responsibility from the
City. Mr. Powell said there is no fees, costs, or responsibility to the City.
Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller stated that the Transportation Authority will be paying
a franchise fee to replace the lost property tax revenue.
   2.   Mr. Matt Thorne, the owner of the Saucy Southerner, located at 503 N
Howe Street, did not agree with the revised sign ordinance. He said that he
would like the Board to reconsider the Ordinance for signs, and that a
committee be established that included staff and local businesses to come to
agreement that would help promote and save businesses. He said signs are vital
to promote business and are unique to each business.
E) Approval of Agenda
   A motion was made by Alderman Sharkey to add resolution to dispose of
surplus fire truck to the consent agenda and to approve the consent agenda as
amended, second by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
The Ethics statement was read by Mayor Hatem.
Consent Agenda:
1.   Resolution Honoring Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. (Mayor Hatem)
2.   Approval of the December 20, 2020 regular meeting minutes. (Clerk, Tanya
Shannon)
3.   Water AIA Contract Amendment with the Cape Fear Council of Governments.
(City Planner, Thomas Lloyd)
4.   Resolution to dispose of surplus fire truck. (voted to add to the consent
agenda)
A motion was made to approve the Consent Agenda by Alderman Lombardi, second by
Alderman Allen. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Agenda:
1.   Mayor Hatem opened the Public Hearing for the Zoning Map Amendment for the
Parking Overlay District. (RZ 20-1112-01)
   City Planner Mr. Thomas Lloyd gave an overview of the proposed amendment. He
said that City staff is requesting that the Board of Aldermen take the
following action: Approve a zoning map amendment that would remove the Parking
Overlay District from the City of Southport’s Official Zoning Map. Mr. Lloyd
explained that as part of the City’s recent update and rewrite of the Unified
Development Ordinance (UDO), parking regulations and provisions were revised
for the Central Business (CBD) and Business District (BD) zoning designations.
Within the CBD, there are no parking requirements and within the BD zoning
district, significantly reduced standards have been provided. As a result of
this change, the current Parking Overlay District is no longer necessary. He
said that removing the Parking Overlay District from the zoning map is the
first step. He said as part of the proposal, only the overlay district is
proposed
for deletion.
   There were no questions or comments.
   Mayor Hatem closed the Public Hearing.
A motion was made by Alderman Allen to approve the Consistency Statement and to
adopt the Ordinance removing the Parking Overlay District, second by Alderman
Spencer.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
2.   Mayor Hatem opened the Public Hearing for the Zoning Map Amendment, BD to
MF, at 1208 N. Caswell Ave, submitted by David & Brenda Baker, Parcel ID
221MAO00104 (RZ 20-1020-01)
   City Planner, Mr. Lloyd, said the applicants are requesting a zoning map
amendment that is for a .141 acre (6,138.5 sf) tract in the ETJ owned by David
& Brenda Baker at 1208 N Caswell St. It is currently zoned BD and the applicant
would like to rezone the property to MF. He said the property is concurrently
going through the annexation process.
   Mr. David Baker, the property owner, stated that the parcel is very small
and there are not many things that he can do with the property zoned BD to MF.
He said he would like direction on how to proceed without adjacent properties
having to also rezone. He said there are other parcels in the vicinity that
have the same situation.
   Alderman Davis asked if he was open to the suggestion made by the Planning
Board. Mr. Baker said that he was open to any suggestion. Mr. Lloyd said that
there are about two blocks in the area that have small lots and he is
recommends reaching to reach out to the owners of the small lots to see if they
would be interested in rezoning.
   City Attorney Mr. Mike Isenberg said that Mr. Lloyd is trying to help the
applicants by encouraging other property owners to rezone to R-10 rather than
MF which would be more beneficial.
   Alderman Davis asked if the applicants would have to get surveys and
applications. Mr. Lloyd replied that the City would take the initiative to
create a solution that would first be reviewed by the Planning Board.
   Alderman Allen asked if the property was rezoned to R-10 would this create
“spot zoning”. Mr. Isenberg said not if other property owners in this area
would also rezone.
   Mr. Baker asked approximately how long this process would take. Mayor Hatem
said that the Planning Board would review the applications first and make a
recommendation before the final decision was approved by the Board of Aldermen.
Mayor Hatem said this may take a few months.
   No further questions or comments.
   Mayor Hatem closed the Public Hearing.
A motion was made by Alderman Allen to adopt the Consistency Statement prepared
by Staff and the Resolution denying the zoning map amendment on the application
submitted by David & Brenda Baker, second by Alderman Spencer. Unanimous vote;
motion carried.
3.   Mayor Hatem opened the Public Hearing for the Voluntary Contiguous
Annexation Petition, at 1208 N. Caswell Avenue requested by David & Brenda
Baker.
   Mr. Lloyd gave an overview of the property located on N. Caswell Avenue, on
the eastern side between W. 14th and W. 12th Street. He said the property is
.14 acres., and it is currently vacant and zoned Business District. The Parcel
ID is 221MA00104. Mr. Lloyd said the applicants are interested in annexation to
have access to City Water & Sewer Service.
   The applicant Mr. Baker requested to defer the annexation request. Mayor
Hatem closed the Public Hearing.
A motion was made by Alderman Spencer to defer the annexation request presented
by Mr. David Baker to the Board of Aldermen’s regular meeting on March 11,
2021, second by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
4.   Mayor Hatem opened the Public Hearing for The Haven Zoning Map Amendment
(RZ 20-1030-01), submitted by Premier Homes.
   Mr. Lloyd gave an overview of the proposed amendment. He said the request is
for a zoning map amendment that would rezone parcel ID’s 237EB001, 237EB00108,
and 237EB00103 from MF to R-10. He said the application is for 3 tracts (2.89
acreage total) in the City limits owned by Premier Homes. The property is the
former small-lot cluster subdivision known as the Haven on the West side of the
intersection of W Leonard and Burrington. The current zoning district is MF and
the proposed zoning district is R-10.
   There were no questions or comments.
   Mayor Hatem closed the Public Hearing.
A motion was made to adopt the Consistency Statement and to approve the
Ordinance granting the Zoning Map Amendment (RZ 20-1030-01) from MF to R-10,
submitted by Premier Homes by Alderman Sharkey, second by Alderman Lombardi.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
5.   Appointment for Delegate and Alternate Delegate for the Cape Fear Council
of Government for 2021.
   The Board agreed unanimously to reappoint Mayor Hatem as delegate, and Mayor
Pro Tem Mosteller as the alternate delegate.
6.   Employee Emergency Paid Sick Leave extension Policy and Resolution for
Covid-19.
RESOLUTION EXTENDING PROVISIONS OF FAMILIES FIRST CORONAVIRUS RESPONSE ACT
   THAT WHEREAS, pursuant to the requirements of the Families First Coronavirus
Response Act, the City of Southport previously adopted a policy granting
employees 80 hours of paid sick leave for Covid-19 related reasons (emergency
paid sick leave or EPSL) and up to 12 weeks of paid FMLA leave (Emergency
Family and Medical Leave Act or EFMLA) to care for a child whose place of care
or school is closed for Covid-19 related issues; and
   WHEREAS, the requirements of the Families First Coronavirus Response Act
have now expired; and
   WHEREAS, the City is allowed to choose to continue to be bound by the
Families First Coronavirus Response Act leave requirements through March 31,
2021; and
   WHEREAS, the City has determined that it is in the best interests of the
City that it continue to be bound by the requirements of the Families First
Coronavirus Response Act through March 31, 2021, as authorized by The
Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport that:
   (1)   EPSL is hereby extended through March 31, 2021, for employees who have
not yet exhausted their 80 hours of emergency paid sick leave; and
   (2)   EFMLA is hereby extended through March 31, 2021, for those employees
who have not yet exhausted their 12 weeks of EFMLA (or their 12 weeks of EFMLA
and regular FMLA combined).
This the 14th day of January 2021.
City of Southport
BY: Mayor, Joseph P. Hatem
Motion to approve the Emergency Paid Sick Leave Resolution for the Covid-19
pandemic by Alderman Davis, and second by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller. Unanimous
vote, motion carried.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Alderman Allen gave an update on the Yacht Basin Overlay District Committee. He
said the City Planner, Mr. Thomas Lloyd gave an excellent presentation and an
overview to the community on the existing conditions and future goals for the
Yacht Basin Overlay at the January 5th Committee meeting. He said that the
Committee also discussed flood management for the area. Alderman Allen said the
next meeting will be on January 17th.
Alderman Spencer gave an update on the 4th of July Committee. He said the
Committee met on January 18th to discuss how to plan for the festivities. He
said there was discussion for the budget and how to proceed during the Covid-19
pandemic. He stated Southport will have a celebration in some form.
Alderman Sharkey did not have any comments.
Alderman Davis gave an update on the Forestry Committee. She said citizens can
view the latest information on the Live Oak tree preservation on the City’s
website. She recommended citizens plant species that are native to this are.
Alderman Lombardi gave an update on the Beautification Committee. He said the
Committee met on January 2nd and teamed up with Scott Len, Chairman of the
Forestry Committee, and cleaned up overhanging limbs and overbrush.
Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller did not have any comments.
MANAGER’S COMMENTS
City Manager, Mr. Gordon Hargrove gave an update on the budget. He said that
the budgets for each department is where they need to be. He stated that
property tax is currently at 70%. He said due to Hurricane Isaias and the
Covid-19 pandemic the administration numbers are a little off, but the City
will be reimbursed. Mr. Hargrove discussed the utility extensions. He said in
February 2020 the disconnection policy fees were waived for non-payment of
water fees related to Covid-19. He stated that in July 2020 disconnections and
fees resumed for non-payment. He said the decision was made to reinstate
disconnections and fees until the Board of Aldermen January regular meeting. He
said he would like direction from the Board on how to proceed with non-
payments.
A motion was made by Alderman Allen to discontinue disconnection fees for water
service related to the Covid-19 pandemic until the March Board of Aldermen
regular meeting, second by Alderman Spencer. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Manager Hargrove said that he is receiving a lot of complaints regarding
speeding traffic in certain areas. He said he would like the Board to consider
installing speed bumps or alternatives in these locations.
Mr. Hargrove asked Assistant Public Services Director, Tom Stanley and Police
Chief, Todd Coring to explain the current detours around the Sewer repair
project. Mr. Stanley stated that there is not convenient detour for Southport.
He said the routes are designated around the construction and they have changed
them many times to keep citizens safe. Mr. Stanley said he continues to receive
complaints but unfortunately there is not an easy solution. He stated that the
repairs will continue thru June.
Aldreman Sharkey suggested to route traffic down Rob Gandy or Jabbertown Road.
Mr. Stanley said that he has priced rental boards and signs. He said that
several board and signs would be needed, and they are very costly. He said even
with detours and signage traffic will continue the routes that are routine.
Alderman Allen asked the community for patience during this time of needed
repairs. He asked that businesses and residents be notified when there location
will be impacted. Mr. Stanley said that he would implement more updates and
notification. He said the City will continue to post updates on the website and
social media sites.
Alderman Lombardi asked for the direction on where the construction would
continue. Mr. Stanley said that the project began on W. West and Nash Streets
and move up next to near. Construction will then move North. Alderman Sharkey
asked him to explain why, and Mr. Stanley said this is necessary because of
elevation difference that affect sewer flow.
Police Chief, Todd Coring said that the Police Department is receiving a lot of
complaints. He said signs and notifications have been arranged to detour
traffic down Rob Gandy Blvd. He asked citizens to have patience and to slow
down.
City Manager Hargrove stated that the Code Enforcement position salary has been
appropriately budgeted. He said that the City has experienced several
retirements which provide funds to pay for the new position.
A motion was made by Alderman Allen to authorize City Manager Hargrove to
facilitate the hiring of a Code Enforcement Officer, second by Alderman
Spencer. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
City Manager, Hargrove said the Board Retreat/ Workshops will be divided in to
two possible three sessions. He said the first session will begin on Monday
February 8th and the second will be on Monday February 15th. All sessions will
be open to the public at the Community Building from 9:00 A.M. to 1:00 P.M.
City Manager, Hargrove announced that the interviews for the City Clerk
position will be at the Community Building on February 3rd at 8:00 A.M.
Manager Hargrove applauded Parks and Recreations Director, Heather Hemphill for
helping the City to receive a Certificate for Exemption to begin construction
on the City Dock.
MAYOR’S COMMENTS
Mayor Hatem congratulated Chief of Police Todd Coring for receiving the 2020
Law Enforcement Officer of the Year from The American Legion of North Carolina.
He applauded Southport Police Officer Mr. Eric Maynes for receiving the 2020
Law Enforcement Officer of the Year from the Southport Rotary Club.
Mayor Hatem congratulated Southport native Mr. Charlie Miller as the elected
official for the North Carolina House of Representatives District 19. Mayor
Hatem recognized the State Pilot’s article on retired Building Inspector, Mr.
Wayne Strickland. He thanked the State Port Pilot for the article on the
“Heritage of the Southport Fishing Village”. Mayor Hatem recognized Southport
native Mr. John Dosher for his award for catching a 660-pound bluefin tuna.
Mayor Hatem congratulated Dr. Andre Minor for becoming the Chief of Staff for
Dosher Memorial Hospital. Mayor Hatem gave an update on the Covid-19
vaccinations.
STAFF REPORTS (provided in Agenda packet)
BOARD COMMENTS
Alderman Allen reminded everyone to reach out to the Board of Aldermen for any
comments, questions, or concerns. The contact information is posted on the
City’s website.
Alderman Spencer welcomed and congratulated newlyweds Mr. David Truglio and
wife Ms. Beverly Hammond. He wished Happy Birthday to Mr. Robert Howard, Mr.
Robins, and the late Mr. Jerry Spencer. Alderman Spencer also requested an
update on the Waterfront Stabilization Project at the Board Workshop/ Retreat.
Aldreman Sharkey briefly discussed land acquisition for a future Nature Park on
Ferry Road. She said understandably the City is not prepared to make a
financial decision, however the property is being pursued by other investors.
Alderman Davis sympathized with citizens trying to receive a Covid-19
vaccination and understands the frustration.
Alderman Lombardi wished everyone a Better and Happy New Year.
Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller was grateful for the City Dock exemption and she said
she is looking forward to the beginning of the construction.
ADJOURN
There being no further business, questions or concerns, a motion was made to
adjourn by Alderman Lombardi, second by Alderman Sharkey. Unanimous vote;
motion carried.
Adjournment at approximately 7:10 P.M.
_____________________
Mayor, Joseph P. Hatem
   _____________________
   Attest; Clerk, Tanya Shannon
FEBRUARY 3, 2021
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
223 E. BAY STREET  FEBRUARY 3, 2021, 8:00 A.M.
COMMUNITY BUILDING SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
Present:    Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor Pro Tem Karen Mosteller, Aldermen Marc
Spencer, Thomas Lombardi, Lora Sharkey, John Allen, and Lowe Davis.
Absent:    None
Staff Present:   Gordon Hargrove, City Manager
A) Call to order by Mayor Joseph P. Hatem at 8:00 A.M.
B) Invocation was led by Alderman Reverend Lowe Davis.
Mayor Hatem read the Ethics Statement
C) Approval of the Agenda.
A motion was made By Alderman Allen to approve the agenda, second by Alderman
Lombardi. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
AGENDA:
1. Conduct Interviews for the City Clerk position.
A motion was made to enter Closed Session per § 143-318.11 (6) by Alderman
Allen, second by Alderman Sharkey. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Mayor Hatem, Board of Aldermen, and City Manager interviewed six applicants for
the City Clerk Position.
The Board returned to open session and took a break for lunch at 12:00 P.M.
Call back to order by Mayor Joseph P. Hatem at 1:00 P.M.
A motion was made to return to Open Session by Alderman Sharkey, second by
Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Motion to return to Closed Session by Alderman Lombardi, second by Alderman
Sharkey. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
A motion was made to return to Open Session by Alderman Allen, second by
Alderman Davis. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
A motion was made to appoint Ms. Dorothy Dutton to the City Clerk Position by
Alderman Sharkey, second by Alderman Davis. Yay: Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller,
Alderman Lombardi, Alderman Allen, Alderman Sharkey, Alderman Davis. Nay:
Alderman Spencer. Motion carried; 5-1.
Motion to adjourn by Alderman Lombardi, second by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Adjournment at approximately 3:30 P.M.
 
      ____________________________
      Mayor Joseph P. Hatem
FEBRUARY 8, 2021
BOARD OF ALDERMEN SPECIAL MEETING AGENDA RETREAT/ WORKSHOP SESSION # 1
223 E. BAY STREET FEBRUARY 8, 2021
9:00 A.M.
Meetings are now open. Facial coverings required, 25 people capacity with
adherence to Social Distancing. Public comments can be made in person. Video/
Audio is available on the City’s website.
 
Present:    Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor Pro Tem Karen Mosteller, Aldermen Marc
Spencer, Thomas Lombardi, Lora Sharkey, John Allen, and Lowe Davis.
 
Absent:   None
 
Staff Present:   Gordon Hargrove, City Manager
   Tanya Shannon, City Clerk
   Randy Jones, Tourism/Communications Director
   Lisa Anderson, Communications Assistant Director
   Todd Coring, Police Chief
   Ralph Treadway, Battalion Fire Chief
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
   
Call to Order by Mayor Joseph P. Hatem at 9:00 A.M.
The Invocation was led by Reverend Alderman Davis.
The Pledge of Allegiance was led by Mayor Hatem.
Public Comment: None
Mayor Hatem read the Ethics Statement.
"If any members know of any conflict of interest or the appearance of a
conflict of interest with respect to matters on the agenda please so state at
this time."
 
Approval of the Agenda by Alderman Allen, second by Alderman Lombardi.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
 
Mayor Hatem welcomed everyone to the Board of Aldermen 2021 Retreat/Workshop.
He quoted Mark Twain: “The secret of getting ahead is getting started.” He
explained that the workshop will be analytical and focused on the goals the
city would like to accomplish.
 
Agenda
 
   Finance Director, Melanie Trexler gave an introduction on the requirements
of establishing a balanced budget that begins on July 1, 2021. Planning a
balanced budget allows the City to avoid excessive spending and allows the body
to focus funds on areas and services that require them the most. The process
requires each department to provide a list of reasonable needs and incorporate
that into a balanced budget. She went over the revenue manual and the audit
report that is available at the Clerk’s office.
 
Workshop Facilitated by City Manager Hargrove:
 
Manager Hargrove provided an overview of the workshop and thanked everyone for
attending. He gave a presentation on the following topics:
 
 City of Southport's Core values
 
Preserve the city's historic character.
Protect the city's shoreline vista.
Continue to support a vibrant Central Business District.
Preserve the city's residential areas.
Protect the city's Areas of Environmental Concern consistent with 15ANCAC 7H.
 
2019/2020 Highlights in Review.
 
Continued Community response to Covid – 19.
Formalized a sewer agreement with Brunswick County.
Completed the update for the Unified Development Ordinance.
Completed the CAMA land use plan (waiting on DCM approval).
Started the Howe St . sewer line replacement project.
Received CAMA exemption to repair city dock Started development of the Taylor
Field park project.
Recovery from Hurricane Isaias.
Continued work on the Weather Tower replacement.
 
Thinking Strategically
 
Focus on prioritizing the most pressing needs the community faces that be
FUNDED and COMPLETED within a strategic time frame from t to 5 years.
Strategic thinking is simply an intentional and rational thought process that
focuses on the analysis of critical factors and variables that will influence
the long-term success of a municipality, a team, or an individual.
 
This types of thinking must account for economic realities, market forces, and
available resources.
Strategic planning is an ongoing process that continuously reappropriates
resources to initiatives that must be prioritized.
 
Long Term Planning
 
Long term planning is about setting the process by which the strategic plan
will be achieved.
Long term planning is often a timeframe that exceed 5 years and normally
depends on the strategic objective it is trying to accomplish.
Long term planning is about aligning city project to fit in with city strategic
goal and coordinating departments so that everyone is in sync and ready to
accomplish city goals.
 
Capital Projects
 
Capital project is a project that helps maintain or improve a city asset, often
called infrastructure.
It can be new construction, expansion, renovation, or replacement project for
an existing facility or infrastructure.
Usually, the project must have a total cost of $5,000.00.
 
Authorized Capital Financing Mechanisms.
Current Revenues:
General Fund: property taxes, sales and use tax.
Enterprise funds: user fees, other specialty charges.
 
Authorized Capital Financing Mechanisms
 
Savings
Fund balance
Capital Reserve Fund
 
A municipalities governing board may establish a capital reserve fund and
periodically appropriate money to it . A local government may establish and
maintain a capital reserve fund for any purpose for which the unit may issue
bonds.
To establish a capital reserve fund, a units governing board must adopt an
ordinance or resolution.
 
Authorized Capital Financing Mechanisms in North Carolina
 
   Special levies
 
Targeted revenue generation mechanisms, (user charges), that are paid only by
the citizens or property owners who most directly benefit from the specific
services or projects.
 
Special assessment is a charge levied against a property to pay for public
improvements that benefit the property.
 
Authorized Capital Financing Mechanisms in North Carolina
 
   Special Taxing districts
 
State Constitution requires that property tax rates be uniform throughout the
jurisdiction with the EXCEPTION that the Constitution authorizes the General
Assembly to allow a local government to carve out one or more areas within the
unit as service districts.
Examples of a service district: beach erosion and flood and hurricane
protection, downtown revitalization projects, urban area revitalization
projects, transit oriented development projects, drainage projects, off-street
parking facilities, sewage collection and disposal, watershed improvements,
drainage, and water resources development.
A service district is simply a geographic designation---a defined area in which
the government levies an extra property tax and provides extra services or
undertakes capital projects that more directly benefit the properties in the
district.
 
Types of Bonds
 
General Obligation
Revenue
Special Obligation
Project Development financing bonds
Installment Financing
 
Break at 10:24 AM. Returned at 10:38 AM
 
List of goals over the next 5-10 years
 
Alderman Allen:
 
Implement Water Front stabilization project.
Continue implementing pedestrian safety plan.
Sidewalk project on Howe Street.
Stormwater and infrastructure improvements.
Construction of the kayak launch.
 
Alderman Spencer:
 
Shoreline And Waterfront Stabilization project.
Storm drainage improvements.
Sewer system infrastructure.
Power redundancy and underground utilities.
Economic diversity, such as housing, jobs, and opportunities.
 
Alderman Sharkey:
 
Water Quality control and improving the drinking water conditions.
Sewer management. Preventing spills and overflows.
Stormwater management.
Street and road repairs for traffic, cyclist’s, and pedestrian safety.
The need for recreational facilities for the youth and elderly.
Planning for the potential need for additional work spaces for staff.
 
Mayor Hatem:
 
Waterfront Stabilization project. Erosion control and protection.
Continue to plan for pedestrian safety with sidewalks and crosswalks.
Continue to promote and protect the health and safety of the citizens.
How to increase revenues to support needed repairs and projects.
Historic Preservation to "promote, enhance and preserve the character of the
Southport historic districts.
Enhance the quality of life.
Promote the economy.
Continue to repair and improve the infrastructures.
Maintaining and improving City Facilities (Community Building, Gym, old City
Chambers, etc.)
How to partner with Brunswick Community College on Lord Street to utilize the
facility for exercise and other activities.
Keep promoting the protection of the waterfront, the yacht basin, and the
marina.
 
Alderman Davis:
 
In addition to all the goals and needs already presented. Major priorities and
pressing needs that must began right away.
 
Mitigating stormwater and erosion control.
Road repairs and sidewalk maintenance.
Underground utilities project.
Protecting the Right of Ways.
Managing Short-term Rentals.
Citizens are advocating for an indoor pool. How to facilitate developing a pool
in the area. (supporting the county to designate an area).
Open Space protection for trails and nature walks. Implementation of the kayak
launch. Raised boardwalks to promote pedestrian safety.
 
Alderman Lombardi:
 
Road and infrastructure repairs.
Flooding issues and possibly designing a pump station.
Sidewalk extensions and repairs.
Implementing underground utilities.
 
Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller:
 
Waterfront stabilization and erosion control.
Stormwater management.
Roads and infrastructure repairs.
Safe connectivity for cyclists and pedestrians.
Renovation of the Public Services facility.
 
City Manager Hargrove concluded that the overall theme is how to finance these
important needs. He encouraged strategic thinking on how to increase revenues
to fund pressing needs for the City. He provided some suggestions on how to
plan.
 
Project Ordinance:
 
A governing board may adopt a project ordinance at any regular or special
meeting by a simple majority of board members if a quorum is present.
It can be done any time of the year.
The ordinance must (1) clearly identify the project and authorize its
undertaking, (2) identify the revenues that will finance the project and , (3)
make the appropriates necessary to complete the project.
 
Capital Improvements Fund:
 
Allow for better short and long term planning.
Individual departmental budgets would not be distorted in any given year by
capital projects assigned to them.
Allows for better identification and public visibility projects.
Unspent funds can be rolled over from one year to the next.
Allow for better prioritization and scheduling of projects among limited
resources.
Revenues and appropriations for designated capital projects would be placed in
this CIP fund, which could be used for improvements which repair or increase
the long-term capital asset base of the City.
 
Manager Hargrove announced that the next Workshop/Retreat will be on February
15, 2021 at the Community Building at 9:00 AM.
 
Comments:
Mayor Hatem and the Board thanked Mr. Hargrove for the informative
presentation.
 
Adjourn:
 
There being no further business Alderman Lombardi made a motion to adjourn, and
second by Alderman Allen. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Adjournment at approximately 11:51 A.M.               
                             _________________________   
Mayor, Joseph P. Hatem
__________________                     
Clerk, Tanya Shannon                              
 
FEBRUARY 11, 2021
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING FEBRUARY 11, 2021
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
Present:    Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor Pro Tem Karen Mosteller, Aldermen Marc
Spencer, Thomas Lombardi, Lora Sharkey, John Allen, and Lowe Davis.
Absent:    None.
Staff Present:
   Gordon Hargrove, City Manager
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
   Tanya Shannon, City Clerk
   Thomas Lloyd, Developmental Services Director
   Heather Hemphill, Parks and Recreations Director
   David Fox, Public Services Director
   Tom Stanley, Public Services Assistant Director
   Kate Marshall, Animal Control/Code Enforcement
   Scott Rogers, Financial Specialist
   Teresa Jones, Utility Specialist
   Ralph Treadway, Battalion Fire Chief
   Todd Coring, Police Department Chief
   Randy Jones, Communications/ Tourism Director
   Lisa Anderson, Communications, Assistant Director
Meetings are now open to the public. Full audio/video is available on the
City’s website or requested by the City Clerk.
A) Call to order by Mayor Joseph P. Hatem at 6:00 P.M.
Moment of Silence in honor of Mr. Tyler Johnson and Ms. Faye Heath (Melanie
Trexler’s Aunt).
B) Invocation was led by Reverend Brian Monroe.
C) Pledge of Allegiance was led by Mayor Joseph P. Hatem.
D) Public Comment:
   1.   Mr. Richard Alt, 6165 Cottage Creek Road, stated his concerns with the
decommission of the Capital Power Plant. He said that CPI USA North Carolina
LLC will close the Southport biomass power plant in North Carolina by March 31,
2021, under a special consent order signed with the state Department of
Environmental Quality. He said environmental groups, several area
municipalities and residents raised concerns about CPI’s stormwater discharges.
He encouraged the City to participate in ensuring the decommission does not
affect the environment.
   2.   Ms. Beth Commander, owner of Trolley Stop, 111 S. Howe Street, asked if
the City had any plans to revive the retail businesses in downtown Southport.
She said since Covid-19 and the road closures for the sewer line repairs her
business has decreased dramatically.
E) Approval of Agenda
   A motion was made by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller to approve the agenda, and
second by Alderman Lombardi. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
F) Mayor Hatem read the Proclamation Honoring Black History Month.
The Ethics statement was read by Mayor Hatem.
G) Approval of Consent Agenda
   1.   Approval of the January 14, 2021 Regular Meeting Minutes. (Tanya
Shannon, Clerk)
   2.   Budget Transfer for Contracted Building Inspector Fees.
   3.   Budget Amendments #5, #6, and #7 (Melanie Trexler, Finance Director)
A motion was made to approve the Consent Agenda by Alderman Davis and second by
Alderman Sharkey. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Agenda
1. Public Hearing: The Parking Overlay Zoning Text Amendment.
   Mayor Hatem opened the Public Hearing.
   Developmental Services Director, Mr. Thomas Lloyd, gave an overview of the
proposed text amendment. He said as part of the City’s recent update and
rewrite of the Unified Development Ordinance (UDO), that parking regulations
and provisions were revised for the Central Business (CBD) and Business
District (BD) zoning designations. He said that within the CBD there are no
parking requirements and within the BD zoning district, significantly reduced
standards have been provided. Mr. Lloyd said that because of this change the
current Parking Overlay District is no longer necessary. He said at the
Aldermen’s regular meeting in January the Board of Aldermen voted to remove the
parking overlay district from the zoning map. Mr. Lloyd said at this meeting in
February, the Board should remove the language in the UDO. He explained as part
of removing the overlay district from the official zoning map, the text
referencing the district should be stricken. Article 3 of the City’s recently
adopted UDO includes a section on overlay districts. He said given the
potential for future overlay districts, it is recommended that this section
remain in the UDO, but the language regarding the parking overlay district be
removed.
   There were no questions or comments.
   Mayor Hatem closed the Public Hearing.
A motion was made by Alderman Davis to adopt the proposed Consistency Statement
as recommended by the Planning Board and to approve the ordinance removing the
Parking Overlay District text from the Unified Development Ordinance, second by
Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
2. Resolution to Adopt the Southeastern NC Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan.
   Mr. Lloyd gave an overview of The Southeastern NC Hazard Mitigation Plan. He
explained that it is a collaboration between the Municipal and County
governments of Brunswick, New Hanover, Onslow, and Pender counties. He said
that the purpose of the plan is to develop, adopt, and update as needed a local
hazard mitigation plan. Mr. Lloyd said the hazard mitigation plan establishes
the broad community vision and guiding principles for reducing hazard risk, and
further proposes specific mitigation actions to eliminate or reduce identified
vulnerabilities. He said the purpose of the 2021 Southeastern NC Regional
Hazard Mitigation Plan update is to: 1) Completely update the existing
Southeastern NC Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan to demonstrate progress and
reflect current conditions. He said the existing plan will need to be updated
since it was completed in 2015. 2) Integrate Onslow County and all its
municipalities into the Southeastern NC Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan. 3)
Increase public awareness and education. 4) Maintain grant eligibility for FEMA
Public Assistance in participating jurisdictions. 5) Update the plan in
accordance with Community Rating System (CRS) requirements. 6) Maintain
compliance with state and federal legislative requirements for local hazard
mitigation plans. Mr. Lloyd stated the plan has been reviewed and approved by
the NC Emergency Management and is currently being reviewed by FEMA. He said
that the State and FEMA require the participating jurisdictions to adopt the
plan to receive public assistance funding for disasters.
A motion was made to adopt the Resolution for the Southeastern N.C. Regional
Hazard Mitigation Plan by Alderman Spencer, and second by Alderman Allen.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
3. Resolution to Adopt the donation for a Fire Truck.
   Fire Chief Battalion, Mr. Ralph Treadway, gave a description of the Fire
Truck and stated the Fire Truck was donated by Mr. Thomas Lott. He said the
value of the Fire Truck is estimated at 1 million dollars. He explained the
Fire Truck will replace another Fire Truck that will become surplus. He said
that the insurance coverage for the old Fire Truck will be transferred to the
Donated Fire Truck.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2252.png]
Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller made a motion to adopt the Resolution to accept the
donated Fire Truck from Mr. Thomas J. Lott, a second was made by Alderman
Lombardi. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Committee Reports
Alderman Allen gave an update on the Yacht Basin Overlay Committee that met on
February 2nd. He said there was a discussion on the traffic pattern and the
pedestrian walk ways in the Yacht Basin area. The committee talked about
several options that would make the area safer. He said there will be more
discussion on this topic and other items at the next committee meeting on
February 16th. Aldermen Allen invited the public to join the meeting.
Alderman Spencer would like to discuss at the Board’s next regular meeting on
March 11th how the City is going to proceed with plans for the 4th of July. He
reported from the ABC Board Committee that ABC sales are up.
Alderman Sharkey did not have anything to report currently.
Alderman Davis, liaison to the Forestry Committee, announced that the City has
ten new live oak trees that were planted by the Public Services Department
Staff. She thanked them for their services.
Alderman Lombardi, liaison to the Beautification Committee, said the committee
discussed the need for replacing the picnic tables in the parks. He said the
committee has already cleaned and repaired the existing tables. He thanked
South Brunswick High School students and all volunteers for their services to
the community.
Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller announced the resignation of Mr. Richard Bandera from
the Planning Board. She thanked him for his dedication and service to the
Planning Board. Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller announced the City is now accepting
applications for the vacant position. She provided an update from the Parks and
Recreation Department meeting. She said the City is moving forward with the
restoration of the City dock. She said once a contract agreement is made, the
repairs can begin. Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller said that the work on Taylor Field
Park has begun and the land is being surveyed to identify the wetland areas to
prepare for the installation of phase 1. She said she is grateful for the
outstanding generosity of Jim and Ginger Harper for donating the land.
Manager’s Comments
City Manager Gordon Hargrove provided a report submitted by Financial Assistant
Kaity Boyd on the current reimbursements from FEMA regarding Hurricane Isaias.
He announced that all the Departments have approximately 50 % remaining in
their current budget. He said the collections for property taxes are at
approximately 95.2%. Manager Hargrove said that the City will be updating the
current contract with Brunswick County Water. Mr. Hargrove announced that the
contract with Waste Industries, owned by GFL Inc., will be expiring at the end
of the fiscal year. Manager Hargrove said that the recycling pickup fees are
increasing, and a revaluation will need to be discussed. Mr. Hargrove asked the
Board for consideration of a 2.5 % pay increase for eligible employees.
It was the consensus of the Board to approve a 2.5% pay increase for eligible
employees.
A motion was made by Alderman Allen to approve a 2.5% increase in wages to all
eligible employees, becoming effective on the next pay period beginning on
February 23, 2021, and if it is logistically possible to retroactive the
increase to January 2021, a second was made by Alderman Davis.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
City Attorney Mr. Mike Isenberg suggested that the Board revisit the
retroactive pay increase at the March regular meeting and determine if the 2.5%
increase retroactive to January 2021 is feasible and to ratify the motion at
that time.
Mayor’s Comments
Mayor Hatem reminded everyone that February is American Heart Month. He said
this month the American Heart Association will be bringing awareness to women’s
heart health. He gave an update on Covid-19 and stated that the City is
operating under the latest revisions of Governor Cooper’s executive orders. He
stated that citizens could now sign up for a vaccine on the Walgreens website.
Mayor Hatem thanked the State Port Pilot editor Mr. Gary Pethe for his
informative editorial on Covid-19. Mayor Hatem thanked Mr. Richard Alt and Mr.
Lee Hinnant on the information regarding the decommission of the CPI Plant in
March. Mayor Hatem thanked Mr. James Yarborough and his daughter Celeste Rogers
for meeting with him to provide information on the decommission of the CPI
Plant. Mayor Hatem thanked Tourism and Communications Director Mr. Randy Jones
and Ms. Lisa Anderson for the City Newsletter now posted on the City’s website.
Mayor Hatem thanked the Board and the City Manager Hargrove for a successful
meeting at the Board Retreat on February 8th. Mayor Hatem announced the Ninth
Annual Brunswick County Black History Symposium Via Zoom from February 19-28th.
He reminded everyone to celebrate Presidents Day on February 15th.
Mayor Hatem wished everyone a Happy Valentine’s Day.[https://
export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/IMAGES/0-0-0-
2254.png]
Staff Reports (provided in the agenda packets)
Board Comments
Alderman Allen stated that the Board Retreat’s first session went very well and
that he is looking forward to the second session on February 15th on the
Performance Appraisal System and he welcomed the Public to attend.
Alderman Spencer asked for clarification on applications and permits for the
Tiki Tavern at 104 E. 8th Street regarding outdoor operations. Police Chief
Todd Coring gave an overview of the process and procedures for all businesses
that are operating under the temporary use of seating, tents, heaters, and
parking provisions to allow businesses to continue to operate due to the Covid-
19 pandemic. Chief Coring said that the Board voted unanimously on December 10,
2020 to approve an application for a permit for temporary use of certain
operations for businesses. Alderman Spencer would like to see more support for
local businesses. He suggested creating a marketing package to promote the
local merchants. Alderman Spencer expressed his condolences to the families of
Mr. Tyler Johnson and Ms. Melanie Trexler.
Alderman Sharkey thanked Mr. Lott for the generous donation of the Ladder Fire
Truck. She thanked City Manager Mr. Hargrove for the presentation on finance at
the first Board Retreat. Alderman Sharkey stated that the most critical
responsibilities of the City are to provide good, safe, and viable
infrastructure. She would like to have more discussion on the budget for
funding the projects. She thanked Staff for their continuous hard work and
wished everyone a Happy Valentine’s Day.
Alderman Davis encouraged everyone to support the local merchants. She
suggested posting on the Southport Oak Island Facebook page an invitation for
people to dine and shop in Southport. Alderman Davis suggested a fund raiser
(such as buy a board from the old boards from the City Dock) before the
reconstruction and repairs begin. She stated that various projects could be
utilized from these old weathered boards. She said these funds would help
support various festivities in the community like the annual “Crab Derby”.
Alderman Lombardi applauded City Manager Hargrove on a successful Workshop and
Retreat.
Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller elaborated on honoring Black History Month and she said
is fortunate to be able attend the weekend long Black History Symposium event.
She stated that this 9th annual event can be viewed on ZOOM remote and streamed
on YouTube February 19-28th.
There being no further questions or comments, a motion was made to adjourn by
Alderman Lombardi and seconded by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller. Unanimous vote;
motion carried.
Adjournment at approximately 7:12 P.M.
      ______________________________
      Mayor, Joseph P. Hatem
______________________________
Attest: Clerk, Tanya Shannon
 
FEBRUARY 15, 2021
BOARD OF ALDERMEN SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES RETREAT/ WORKSHOP SESSION # 2
223 E. BAY STREET
FEBRUARY 15, 2021
9:00 A.M.
Meetings are now open. Facial coverings required, 25 people capacity with
adherence to Social Distancing. Public comments can be made in person. Video/
Audio is available on the City’s website.
 
Present:   Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor Pro Tem Karen Mosteller, Aldermen Marc
Spencer, Thomas Lombardi, Lora Sharkey, John Allen, and Lowe Davis.
 
Absent:   None
 
Staff Present:   Gordon Hargrove, City Manager
   Tanya Shannon, City Clerk
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
   Randy Jones, Tourism/ Communications Director
   Lisa Anderson, Communications Assistant
   Ralph Treadway, Fire Chief Battalion
   Todd Coring, Police Chief
 
Call to order by Mayor Joseph P. Hatem at 9:00 A.M.
 
The Invocation was led by Alderman Reverend Lowe Davis.
 
The Pledge of Allegiance was led by Mayor Joseph P. Hatem
Mayor Hatem read the Ethics Statement.
"If any members know of any conflict of interest or the appearance of a
conflict of interest with respect to matters on the agenda please so state at
this time."
 
Public Comment: None
 
A motion was made to approve the agenda by Alderman Allen and second by
Alderman Lombardi. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
 
Agenda
Mayor Hatem welcomed everyone and wished everyone a Happy Presidents’ Day.
 
Introduction of the Tourism/ Communications Director, Randy Jones and
Communications Assistant, Lisa Anderson. Ms. Anderson gave a presentation on
“Southport Connected”. The Community notification system “Southport Connected”
gives residents, businesses, and visitors 24/7 access to important emergency
alerts as well as general community updates. Southport Connected is built on
the Onsolve CodeRED communication system to ensure efficient, secure messaging
via phone, email, and text.” More information on how to get connected can be
found on the city’s website.
 
City Manager Hargrove recapped on the first session regarding the Boards list
of top projects and priorities. He included the city dock restoration and
dredging around the city dock. He asked the Board for input on strategic
planning and financial strategies. He provided worksheets to the Board to
create strategies for policies and/or projects to review at a later time.
 
City Manager Hargrove gave an overview to the second session of the 2021
Workshop/Retreat on the proposed performance appraisal system. The proposed
system will guide the process of evaluating employees performance on these
levels; “meeting expectations”,” exceeding expectations”, or “not meeting
expectations.”
 
Manager Hargrove provided handouts for the Board to review and gave a
description on how each expectation is implemented. The proposed system will
provide guidelines on how each employee will be evaluated for annual merit
raises. There was discussion on how the performances will be graded as a whole
or by each department. Manager Hargrove said that the supervisors/evaluators
performing the evaluations will be adequately trained. Allocations will need to
be implemented into the budget to appropriate for raises based on the employees
performance. It is proposed that the higher performing employee will receive a
higher percentage versus a low performance employee. Manager Hargrove believes
the system will build organization, better communication, and a culture of
excellence to all employees.
 
Motion to include the employee performance appraisal system on the agenda at
the March 11, 2021 Board of Aldermen Regular Meeting by Mayor Pro Tem
Mosteller, second by Alderman Sharkey. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
 
Mayor Hatem and the Board of Aldermen thanked Communications/ Tourism Director
Randy Jones and Communications Assistant Lisa Anderson for presenting “
Southport Connected” and for all their hard work. They thanked City Manager
Hargrove for another informative workshop.
 
There being no further business a motion was made Alderman Davis to adjourn,
and second by Alderman Lombardi. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
 
Adjournment at approximately 10:25 A.M.
________________________________
Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor
_________________________
Tanya Shannon, City Clerk
FEBRUARY 24, 2021
BOARD OF ALDERMEN SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
223 E. BAY STREET
FEBRUARY 24, 2021
3:00 P.M.
Present:   Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor Pro Tem Karen Mosteller, Aldermen
Thomas Lombardi, Lora Sharkey,     John Allen, and Lowe Davis.
 
Absent:   Alderman Spencer
 
Staff Present:   Gordon Hargrove, City Manager
   Heather Hemphill, Parks and Recreations Director
   Tanya Shannon, City Clerk
   Todd Coring, Police Chief
   Ralph Treadway, Battalion Fire Chief
   Randy Jones Tourism/ Communications Director
   Lisa Anderson, Assistant Communications Director
Call to order by Mayor Joseph P. Hatem at 3:00 P.M.
Invocation was led by Alderman Reverend Lowe Davis.
The Pledge of Allegiance was led by Mayor Hatem.
 
Mayor Hatem read the ethics statement.
 
A motion to approve the agenda was made by Alderman Allen, second by Alderman
Lombardi. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
 
Agenda
Contract Agreement for the City Dock Repairs.
Mayor Hatem expressed his gratitude to the Board, City Manager, and Staff for
their years of hard work and dedication to bring the reconstruction and repair
of the city dock to fruition.
City Manager Hargrove stated that notice was posted for request for proposals.
He said that all the bids were reviewed by Ms. Hemphill and himself. He said
after full review they recommended McPherson Marine Services for the
construction contract. Mr. Hargrove said that all the guidelines have been
followed and met for FEMA and the Golden LEAF Disaster Recovery Grant.
Parks and Recreations Director Heather Hemphill stated that the Request for
Proposals began in 2017. She said that all the requirements have been met over
the five year bidding process. After the last request for proposals three
contractors were selected for consideration, McPherson Marine Services,
American Marine, and Logan Marine. She said McPherson Marine Services was
selected because they could begin the repairs immediately.
Ms. Hemphill stated that the project will be completed in two phases. The first
phase will be the reconstruction and repairs of the dock and the second phase
will be the construction of the finger piers. She said Phase 1 should be
completed by the end of the spring of 2021. She does not anticipate any
additional costs. Ms. Hemphill presented the estimate provided by McPherson
Marine Services:
 
McPherson Marine Services 101 N Atlantic Ave Southport, NC 28461 US 910-443-
3112
kara@mcphersonmarine.com
www.mcphersonmarine.com
 
ACTIVITY       QTY       RATE      
   
 
Demolition                                                  1     30,000.00 30,000.00
Demolition and disposal of existing materials not used
Dock Repair                                                1     20,000.00 20,000.00
First phase repairs
Piling Installation
Installation of structural                               99    800.00    79,200.00
Pilings
Stringers and Joists                                      2,776 42.00     116,592.00
Install strings, joists, and decking
            TOTAL $245,792.00
 
There was discussion on the replacement of the finger piers. The city dock will
remain in the existing footprint and the dock will be restored as it was before
the damages including the finger piers. Ms. Hemphill explained that there will
be five slips that would be used for emergency crafts only at this time. After
the dredging is completed more slips will be added and then there will be more
discussion on how the additional slips will be utilized . The dock will have
lighting and parking. However, the cost of the parking is not included in the
total cost of the project.
 
A motion to award the contract for the City Dock reconstruction and repairs to
McPherson Marine Services and to authorize the Mayor or Manager to execute the
contract was made by Alderman Sharkey, second by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Manager’s Comments
City Manager Hargrove said he is happy to move forward with reconstruction of
the City Dock and thanked Parks and Recreation Director Heather Hemphill and
everyone involved for completing the long process.
Mayor’s Comments
Mayor Hatem thanked the Board, City Manager Hargrove, Ms. Hemphill, and the
Citizens for accomplishing the long time goal of restoring the City Dock.
Board Comments
The Board collectively thanked Ms. Hemphill and the Citizens for keeping the
project alive. They are all excited to begin the reconstruction and restore the
viability of the City Dock back to the Community.
Adjourn
There being no further business a motion was made by Alderman Davis and
seconded by Alderman Lombardi to adjourn the Special Meeting at 3:33 P.M.
                     
                                                       
Mayor, Joseph P. Hatem
                                                    
Attest: Clerk, Tanya Shannon
 
MARCH 11, 2021
Board of Aldermen Regular Meeting Minutes
March 11, 2021
223 E. Bay Street
Community Building
6:00 p.m.
 
Present:    Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor Pro Tem Karen Mosteller, Aldermen Marc
Spencer, Thomas Lombardi, Lora Sharkey, John Allen, and Lowe Davis
 
Absent:   None
 
Staff Present:   Gordon Hargrove, City Manager
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
   Tanya Shannon, City Clerk
   Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
   Thomas Lloyd, Developmental Services Director
   Heather Hemphill, Parks and Recreation Director
   David Fox, Public Services Director
   Kate Marshall, Animal Control/Code Enforcement
   Ralph Treadway, Battalion Fire Chief
   Todd Coring, Police Chief
   Randy Jones, Communications/Tourism Director
   Lisa Anderson, Communications, Assistant Director
 
Meetings are now open to the public. Full audio/video is available on the
City’s website or can be requested from the City Clerk’s office.
Call to order by Mayor Joseph P. Hatem at 6:01 p.m.
 
Invocation was led by Alderman and Reverend Lowe Davis.
 
Pledge of Allegiance was led by Mayor Joseph P. Hatem.
 
Public Comment:
Mr. Glen Price, 6142 River Sound Circle, thanked the Board for welcoming
transplants to area. He said that one thing that they all have in common is a
love of the scenic beauty of Southport. He applauded the great job that has
been done in thoroughfare areas, but some of the residential areas are still a
concern. In particular, the use of LED, “baseball stadium” style lighting that
is being used in residential neighborhoods. He said that these style lights can
be helpful in preventing crime, but they are not necessary in most residential
areas and the detract from the beauty of the sky and natural surroundings. He
asked the Board and staff to seek alternatives for street lighting.
 
Approval of Agenda
A motion was made by Alderman Allen to approve the agenda after removing the
item from the Haven project. The motion was seconded by Mayor Pro Tem
Mosteller. All ayes. Motion carried.
 
Mayor Joseph P. Hatem performed the Oath of Office for the new City Clerk,
Dorothy Dutton.
Mayor Joseph P. Hatem read the ethics statement.
Approval of Consent Agenda
Approval of the February 3, 2021 Special Meeting Minutes. Approval of the
February 11, 2021 Regular Meeting Minutes (Tanya Shannon, Clerk)
Approval of the Performance Appraisal System (Manager Hargrove)
Approval of the Brunswick Family Assistance Program (Melanie Trexler)
Approval of eligible retroactive 2.5% pay increase to December 2020.
A motion was made by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller and seconded by Alderman Lombardi
to approve the consent agenda. All ayes. Motion carried.
Agenda
Brunswick County Comprehensive Transportation Plan.
Development Services Director, Thomas Lloyd, gave an overview of the 20-30-year
multi-modal plan that will assist with identifying deficiencies in the County’s
transportation systems. The proposed plan will also help in setting short and
long-term priorities. He said that most people in the area are aware of the
growth, but Brunswick County is experiencing a growth rate of 2.93%. The County
and municipal staff involved with the project are asking for community input by
completing an online survey. The link to the survey will be shared on all of
Southport’s social media websites and has already been distributed to the Board
of Aldermen. Mr. Lloyd suspects that it will be completed within the next year.
Annexation Resolution.
Mr. Thomas Lloyd explained that the City has received a petition for annexation
by the property owner, Jere McMillan for 1136 Delaware Street. The property is
located off 11th Street and is requesting annexation to have access to City
water and sewer. Alderman Lowe Davis asked if there were water and sewer
connections close to the property, or if would be a great expense to connect
utilities to that address. Mr. Lloyd stated that there should be connections
close by, but it would be verified for the next meeting. The first step in the
annexation process is for the Board to direct the Clerk to investigate the
petition and verify the sufficiency of the request. Then the public hearing
could be scheduled. After a motion made by Alderman Sharkey, and seconded by
Alderman Spencer, the Board approved the Resolution directing the clerk to
investigate the petition for the voluntary non-contiguous annexation for 1136
Delaware Street, as presented. All ayes. Motion carried.
NCDEQ Groundwater Standards.
Alderman Lora Sharkey addressed the Board of Aldermen regarding groundwater
standards. Southport has a history of promoting environmental protection.
Brunswick County is constructing a reverse osmosis system to deal with
contamination in the water supply and the cost will be borne by the residents.
NCDEQ will be hosting a public hearing and Alderman Sharkey would like the
Board to endorse a statement that will be sent for consideration during the
hearing. PFAS are common contaminants in groundwater that have been linked to
cancer and thyroid issues. NCDEQ has established an interim standard allowed
for the time being until further research can be done to establish the most
accurate limits of PFAS that are allowed. The City of Southport supports a new
groundwater standard that is at least as strong as the Chemours Consent Order,
which is no more than 10ppt for a single PFA and no more than 70 ppt for the
sum of all PFAS. Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller stated that in the CAMA Land Use Plan,
water quality is mentioned 124 times. Alderman Sharkey made a motion for Board
to approve the statement and that the Clerk will submit it to NCDEQ before the
March 16th deadline, so that it can be included in the public hearing. Alderman
Lowe Davis seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.
Utility Delinquent Fees.
Finance Director, Melanie Trexler addressed the Board regarding charging
customers delinquent fees for accounts that are not paid by the 25th of each
month. The City has been disconnecting customers already, but as a courtesy, no
delinquent fees of $35.00 have been applied. Currently, all accounts but one,
have fulfilled their payment agreements that was allowed during Executive Order
124. Ms. Trexler feels that if delinquent fees are not charged, some customers
would start to accumulate a hefty balance again. Alderman Sharkey agreed that
the timing is right to start charging the fee again. After a motion made by
Alderman Sharkey and seconded by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller, the Board agreed to
resume charging utility customers the $35.00 delinquent fee for payments made
after the 25th of each month.  All ayes. Motion carried.
Approval of Audit Contract.
Mayor Joseph P. Hatem stated that the audit contract was long and interesting
and that he learned a few new acronyms. Ms. Trexler said that this was the
third year that they would be using the audit firm, Thompson, Price, Scott,
Adams & Company. They have been pleased with the firm in years prior Alderman
Sharkey stated that she located the contract from last year and the cost was
the same. After a motion made by Alderman Allen and seconded by Alderman
Spencer, the Board approved the contract for Auditing services with Thompson,
Price, Scott, Adams & Company, as presented. All ayes. Motion carried.
Contract for Disaster Planning & Preparation Services.
Town Manager, Gordon Hargrove explained to the Board that for many years, the
City has used Johnson Environmental & Disaster Consulting Services to perform
debris removal and disposal management services after storm events. Alderman
Lowe asked if the City needed to accept bids for the audit contract. Both the
Mayor and City Attorney agreed that because the contract was for services, the
bidding process was not required.  After a motion made by Alderman Lombardi,
and seconded by Alderman Sharkey, the Board of Aldermen approved the two-year
contract with Johnson Environmental & Disaster Consulting Services, as
presented. All ayes. Motion carried.
Committee Reports
Alderman Allen gave an update on the Yacht Basin Committee. He stated that they
have come up with a few recommendations concerning transportation improvements.
They will be relayed to the Mayor and Aldermen soon.
Aldermen Spencer and Sharkey did not have anything to report.
Alderman Davis explained that the Forestry Committee will be meeting next week.
She is excited that the committee will be making a commercial for “Tree City,
USA,” and explaining what the committee does. There have been a lot of
complaints about the trees that were planted in front of the old City Hall. But
she explained that the trees are not leaning, that is how they are growing.
Alderman Lombardi reported that the Beautification Committee helped paint the
benches along the riverfront and helped assemble some benches/tables last week.
They were particularly grateful for the high school students that came out to
volunteer with the committee. He thanked everyone for their hard work.
Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller reported for the Parks and Recreation Committee. Taylor
Park is moving along. They are going to be marking trees soon, to preserve some
of them before the trail, (2) dog parks and the exercise stations get built.
The first phase of Taylor Park is scheduled for completion in October 2021. The
city dock restoration will be completed in two phases, per FEMA regulations.
The first phase is scheduled to be completed by July 3, 2021. The second phase
will be completed by July 3, 2022. The restoration began today. Citizens will
have the rare opportunity to purchase a part of history, as segments of the
dock are removed. Proceeds will go back into the Parks and Recreation programs
and activities.
Mayor Joseph P. Hatem thanked the Board of Aldermen for all their reports.
Manager’s Comments
City Manager Gordon Hargrove stated that the city dock restoration has begun.
While the original plan was to sell the boards for a fundraiser, the contractor
has expressed concerns about how securely the boards are attached. It could
potentially take a lot of time to remove all the nails and screws from the
boards to preserve them well enough to sell them. The contractor said that he
would do whatever he could do to preserve the boards, but it might not be
possible. The project is a work in progress.
Tax collections are coming along very well; the City is almost at 100%
collection.
Department budgeting is going along where it should be. There are no financials
included in the packet this time, but he and Melanie Trexler are working on a
new dashboard to streamline the financials. Mr. Hargrove said that there is a
need to have probably two more budget workshops. They can be scheduled later.
Pedestrian improvements in the yacht basin area are still being considered.
There will hopefully be something to bring to the Board at the meeting in
April.
Mayor’s Comments
Mayor Joseph P. Hatem took a moment to remind everyone that it was a year ago
from this date that the coronavirus was declared a pandemic by the World Health
Organization. He applauds all the employees at the City of Southport for their
hard work and service to the Town. The Board and audience stood and applauded
the staff. The Mayor was pleased to announce that there was a new campaign and
promotional materials encouraging the public to get the Covid vaccinations.
“Take Your Best Shot,” is the new slogan and it features a basketball goal and
the Mayor’s signature red Converse high tops. He said that it was perfect
timing for this new poster because of the ACC Championship taking place. He
urged everyone to stay vigilant against the virus. And he reminded the public
that vaccinations are being given at Walgreen’s, the county Health department
as well as other hospitals.
Mayor Joseph P. Hatem said that he was very pleased with the Black History
Month program in February.
The Mayor also welcomed Ms. Dutton again to the City of Southport and said he
was excited to work together. He also thanked Randy Jones and Lisa Anderson for
their efforts with the Southport Connected website and brochures.
He wished everyone a Happy St. Patrick’s Day and blessings to all.
Staff Reports
There were no questions regarding the monthly Staff reports.
Board Comments
Alderman Allen thanked Alderman Sharkey for her work on the groundwater
standards statement. He is pleased the Board voted to make the pay raises
retroactive to December 2020. He said that personally, he is feeling better
about the pandemic, but he is very grateful for the Mayor’s leadership
throughout the last year. He also stated that he can relate to Mr. Glen Price.
Recently, while driving his wife to the airport, he noticed the new LED
streetlights and was grateful they aren’t being used in his neighborhood,
because they are so bright. He asked Town Manager Gordon Hargrove to find other
solutions. He urged the public to sign up for Southport Connected. Alderman
Allen also reminded everyone that Daylight Savings Time is this weekend.
Alderman Spencer welcomed Mr. Price to Southport. He understands the lighting
comments, and we appreciate Mr. Price’s input. He thinks that the board
fundraiser is a great idea. And he stated in the spirit of sportsmanship, “Go,
Tarheels!”
Alderman Sharkey welcomed Ms. Dutton and thanked Tanya Shannon for her hard
work over the last few months. She was approached recently by a resident who
was asking about the street sweeper. She said that the residential areas that
have stormwater ponds would benefit greatly from the sweeper. She stated that
more investigation would have to be done before any commitments were made, but
it would help keep the storm drain areas cleaner. She is just requesting that
the City investigate the request further.
Alderman Davis reminded everyone that March is Women’s History Month. As she
was trying to create a list of women who are leaders in this area, but she
realized that there are far too many to name. Most every church in Southport
has or has had female clergy. Not to mention female leaders in other arenas.
She narrowed her list down to just a couple. The first female Mayor was from
Southport and it just so happens to be Police Chief Coring’s grandmother.
Margaret Harper was the first woman to run for Lieutenant Governor for the
state of NC. Alderman Davis stated that just the fact that the Board is made up
of three men and three women is a sure sign of progress.
Mayor Joseph P. Hatem stated that Marie Curie is the only person to be awarded
the Nobel Prize twice.
Alderman Lombardi welcomed Ms. Dutton to the City. He reminded the Board that
there will be a speaker on April 8th.
Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller reiterated the importance of community participation
for the Brunswick County Comprehensive Transportation plan. She urged citizens
to complete the survey. She congratulated Kate Marshall for completing the
certification course to be a certified Wildlife Agent. She said that Ms.
Marshall is awesome. As she thinks back over the last year, she remembers all
the challenges that we have faced, with information, with the economy and
overall health. Randy Jones applied for a grant and was awarded a grant for
$10,000 for advertising. There will now be a half page ad in the Visit NC
magazine. It will reach over half a million people in North Carolina. We want
to let everyone know that Southport is open!
Mayor Joseph P. Hatem thanked everyone for attending the meeting and watching
from home,
There being no further questions or comments, a motion was made by Mayor Pro
Tem Mosteller and seconded by Alderman Lombardi to adjourn the meeting. All
ayes. Motion carried.
The meeting was adjourned at 7:13 p.m.
 
_________________________________
Joseph P. Hatem, MD, MPH
Mayor, City of Southport
 
 
_____________________________
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
MARCH 24, 2021
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING MARCH 24, 2021
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:         Mayor Joseph P. Hatem
            Aldermen Karen Mosteller, Lora Sharkey, Lowe Davis, Marc Spencer,
John Allen, Tom Lombardi
 
STAFF PRESENT:      Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
   Tanya Shannon, Deputy Clerk   
   Tom Stanley, Assistant Public Works Director
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
   David Fox, Public Works Director
   Randy Jones, Communication/Tourism Director
   Lisa Anderson, Communications, Assistant Director
   Ralph Treadway, Battalion Fire Chief    
 
A)   Call to Order – 2:00 p.m.
Mayor Hatem called the special meeting to order at 2:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Lowe Davis gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
Mayor Hatem led everyone in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D.)    Approval of Agenda
After a motion made by Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller and seconded by Alderman
Lombardi, the Board approved the agenda as presented. All ayes. Motion carried.
 
BUSINESS
1.   Change order for Howe Street Sewer Project
a. Resolution Authorizing the Contract with ECS Southeast. Tom Stanley
addressed the Board with regards to the compaction contract that is needed with
a company who can complete the backfilling, paving, inspection services, lifts,
ten hours a day and travel for the next eighteen weeks. All of these
requirements just recently came to light when NCDOT gave us a stop work order
because we did not have the permits that were required. Alderman Lowe Davis
asked how the City just became aware or the requirement. Tom Stanley stated
that the City began the planning for this project back in 2018-2019 with the
engineer and other staff members. At that time, we were told by an NCDOT
engineer that the work was covered as repairs. But recently, they discovered
that it wasn’t the case. Alderman Davis asked if the work that was done, has to
be pulled out and done again. Mr. Stanley said that he hoped not, but NCDOT
hasn’t given their final determination. Alderman Allen asked that the City do
whatever we can do push back on NCDOT so that we do not have to re-do all that
has been completed so far. It is fine to put back what was there, but to do
more is absurd. Alderman Davis asked why this company was going to be used? Tom
Stanley said that the company comes very highly recommended, and they seem to
have a good relationship with NCDOT. Mayor Hatem read through a sample motion.
After a motion was made by Aldermen John Allen and seconded by Alderman
Lombardi, the Board approved the Resolution Authorizing the Contract with ECS
Southeast, LLP, as presented and authorizing the City Manager and Mayor to
execute the contract and all related documents, as presented. All ayes. Motion
carried.
 
CITY OF SOUTHPORT BOARD OF ALDERMAN
RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING CONTRACT WITH ECS SOUTHEAST, LLP
WHEREAS, the City of Southport is currently making improvements to the City’s
sewer system which is known as the Howe Street Sewer Replacement Project; and
WHEREAS, in connection with the asphalt replacement involved in said project,
the North arolina Department of Transportation requires testing of the
construction materials for    the backfill, compaction and the testing for
compaction and density of asphalt; and
WHEREAS, ECS Southeast, LLP, is qualified, able and willing to provide all of
the Aforementioned services to the City of Southport at a contract price of $
72,287.00; and
WHEREAS, the City of Southport wishes to retain the services of ECS as an
independent    contractor to provide said services; and
NOW THEREFORE, the Board of Alderman of the City of Southport resolves that the
City    Manager and/or Mayor are each hereby authorized and directed to enter
into a contract with ECS Southeast, LLP, to provide the testing of the
construction materials for backfill, compaction, and the testing for compaction
and density of asphalt as required by the NCDOT and to execute the contract and
all related documents.
Approved this 24th day of March, 2021.
                     ________________________________
Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor
_________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
 
b. Resolution Authorizing the Change Order for the Howe Street sewer project.
The Mayor explained that the cost of asphalt for the Howe Street project is
changing from $65.00 per square yard, up to $125 per square yard. This is
because of a change in what NCDOT is requiring. Alderman Allen asked if the
City could put gravel back down and use the road that way until we get the
issues with NCDOT hashed out. Tom Stanley said that it was possible, but it
might cause some unnecessary work at an expense. There was some discussion
about who would be held responsible for the drastic change in cost and design.
Alderman Mark Spencer asked whether the inspector from ECS Southeast would be
present on the job site soon and work could commence? Alderman John Allen
reiterated that he wants the City to exhaust every avenue to change NCDOT’s
edict for paving. Mayor Hatem read a sample motion. After a motion made by
Alderman John Allen and seconded by Alderman Tom Lombardi, the Board approved
the Resolution in Support of the change order increasing the cost of asphalt
paving to $ 862,500.00and authorizing the City Manager and/or Mayor to execute
any necessary contracts and required documents, as presented.
 
CITY OF SOUTHPORT BOARD OF ALDERMAN
RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING CHANGE ORDER
FOR THE HOWE STREET SEWER PROJECT
 
WHEREAS, the City of Southport has entered into a contract with 274
Construction Group for a project known    as the Howe Street Sewer Replacement
Project; and
WHEREAS, regarding the asphalt replacement on Howe Street, the original
contract specifications in said contract required 2 inches of asphalt and 16
inches of ABC stone; and
WHEREAS, the North Carolina Department of Transportation is now requiring 3
inches of fine heavy- duty    paving, 3 inches of intermediate paving and 4
inches of rough black base; and
WHEREAS, said NCDOT requirements will dictate that the cost of the asphalt
pavement repair will increase from $ 65.00 per square yard to $ 125.00 per
square yard; and
WHEREAS, this change will result in an increase for the cost of asphalt
replacement under said contract from $ 448,500.00 to $ 862,500.00.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN OF THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT RESOLVES
THAT the City Manager and/or Mayor are each hereby authorized and directed to
execute any necessary change orders to the above-referenced contract in order
to comply with the NCDOT requirement regarding the asphalt replacement.
 
DATED, this _____day of March, 2021.      ____________________________________
Joseph P. Hatem, MD, MPH
Mayor, City of Southport
 
Attest: _______________________________
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
 
E.)    Adjournment After a motion made by Alderman John Allen and seconded by
Mayor Pro-tem
   Karen Mosteller, the Mayor adjourned the Special Meeting at 2:32 p.m. All
ayes. Motion carried.
 
                     ____________________________________
Joseph P. Hatem, MD, MPH
Mayor, City of Southport
 
___________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
APRIL 8, 2021
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING April 8, 2021, 6:00 PM.
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
Present:    Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor Pro Tem Karen Mosteller, Aldermen
Thomas Lombardi, Lora Sharkey, John Allen, and Lowe Davis
Absent:   Mark Spencer
Staff Present:   Gordon Hargrove, City Manager
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
   Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
   Tanya Shannon, Deputy City Clerk
   Thomas Lloyd, Developmental Services Director
   Heather Hemphill, Parks and Recreation Director
   David Fox, Public Services Director
   Tom Stanley, Assistant Public Services Director
   Paul "Ellie” Pittenger, Electrical Superintendent
   Kate Marshall, Animal Control/Code Enforcement
   Ralph Treadway, Battalion Fire Chief
   Todd Coring, Police Chief
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   Kiley Barefoot, Building Inspector
   Randy Jones, Communications/Tourism Director
   Lisa Anderson, Communications, Assistant Director
Others Present: Gary Pethe, with the State Port Pilot, Brayton Willis,
representing the Gullah Geechee Trail Project, representatives from the Bald
Head Island Transit Authority, Adam Steadman, and many other citizens.
Meetings are now open to the public. Full audio/video is available on the
City's website or can be requested from the City Clerk's office.
A.) Call to order by Mayor Joseph P. Hatem at 6:02 PM.
B.) Alderman and Reverend Lowe Davis led the invocation.
C.) Everyone joined in reciting the Pledge of Allegiance.
D.) Public Comment:
   1.   Mayor Hatem made some opening comments. He gave a review of the items
on the agenda and also said that Southport is busy. It was a productive week
and there have been quite a few meetings this week. The City is recovering from
the pandemic shut-down last year and Southport will vaccinate our way out of
the pandemic.
   2.   Mr. Adam Steadman addressed the Board regarding the use of lighting in
subdivisions. He would like to see the City use L.E.D. light bulb in their
fixtures. The American Medical Association warns again using high-intensity
lighting. L.E.D. lighting would also reduce the City's expense and make the
lighting more attractive. Mr. Steadman stated that he believes in the City's
investments in infrastructure but would advise against increasing the tax rate.
   3.   Ms. Dutton read aloud an email letter that was sent by the leaders of a
local Homeowners Association. Ann Douglas with the Bonnet Way H.O.A. expressed
some confusion and disliked that when the subdivision was annexed in, they were
told by the former manager that they would have their street and streetlights
taken care of by the City. The H.O.A. was recently told that the Town would not
maintain the streets and streetlights because the Board of Aldermen changed the
ordinance in 2017. The H.O.A. feels now that there is no reason to stay annexed
with the City if there are no real benefits.
E.) Approval of Agenda
Alderman Lombardi made a motion to approve the agenda, as presented. Mayor Pro
Tem Mosteller seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.
F.) Oath of Office.
City Clerk Dorothy Dutton performed the Oath of Office for Kylie Barefoot, the
new Building Inspector.
Mayor Joseph P. Hatem read the ethics statement.
G.) Approval of Consent Agenda
   1.   Approval of February 8, 2021, Special Retreat Minutes.
   2.   Approval of February 15, 2021, Special Retreat Minutes
   3.   Approval of the Minutes for the Dock Repair Meeting February 24, 2021.
   4.   Approval of March 11, 2021, Regular Meeting Minutes.
   5.   Approval of March 24, 2021, Special Meeting Minutes.
   6.   Budget Amendment #9
A motion was made by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller and seconded by Alderman Lombardi
to approve the consent agenda. All ayes. Motion carried.
H.) Special Recognition
   1.   Mayor Hatem asked Mayor Pro-tem Karen Mosteller, Alderman Lowe Davis,
and members of the Forestry Committee to approach the podium with him. He read
through the proclamation, mentioning the history of Arbor Day and Sterling
Morton in Nebraska. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller said that the stewardship of our
trees locally is more important because of the growth. We all sit in the shade
of trees that we did not plant. In Southport, we celebrate our trees every day.
She wanted to recognize two members of the Forestry Committee. One member, Kyle
Fairley, has served on the committee for sixteen years. Scott Len has spent
hundreds of hours on the committee and working on the proposed tree ordinance.
Alderman Davis mentioned that since its inception, the Forestry Committee has
planted over 320 trees! The Mayor thanked the committee and the two liaisons
for their hard work. Mayor Pro- tem Karen Mosteller presented the following
statement.
"As Southport grows, the stewardship of our trees continues to be critical to
our community's quality of life and our economic success. With inevitable
growth come the pressures of change.
We all sit in the shade of trees we did not plant. And as members of the
community, it's our turn to help maintain the health and future of Southport's
Urban Maritime Forest.
While Arbor Day is the official celebration of our trees, we celebrate our
trees every day in Southport. With gratitude, as the former liaison to the
Forestry Committee, I would like to take a moment to recognize all the members
of the Southport Forestry Committee and the work they do to help ensure that
our community trees re-planted and maintained.
And in specific, I would like to take a moment to recognize two committee
members, one past and one present.
First, I want to start with Clay Fairley, I am sure many of you know Clay, and
I want to make sure everyone knows that Clay first joined the Forestry
Committee in 2004. Clay continued to serve on the Forestry Committee for 16
years. Clay Fairley advocated for our Live Oaks and helped maintain the quality
of life we are afforded by the trees surrounding us. Clay Fairley, because of
you and your commitment and dedication and advocacy for Southport's trees, our
community is a better place to live. That is large to say, and it is true.
Thank you.
The second individual joined the Forestry Committee in 2015 and agreed to co-
chair the committee with Clay. Many of you know Scott Len, and I want you to
know that in the last six years, Scott Len as co-Chair and now Chair, has spent
hundreds of hours on Forestry Committee projects. When Scott joined the
committee, the first task was to begin work on a tree ordinance that reflected
our City's values and recognized the importance of our trees. Throughout that
process to today, Scott's leadership has led the way for our tree ordinance
that continues to be stronger and better with every update. Scott Len has
completed classes and workshops to gain the knowledge that has earned him a
reputation as our unofficial tree warden. Scott Len makes himself available to
citizens and neighbors with tree questions and collaborates with City's Public
Works Department.
Scott Len, because of you and your commitment and dedication, and advocacy for
Southport's trees, our community is a better place to live. Again, that is
large to say, and it is true. Thank you.
As citizens of Southport, we appreciate your service and all you have done and
continue to do to the benefit of the City and for future generations. Again,
thank you, Clay Fairley and Scott Len."
   2.   Mayor Hatem said that the following proclamation was very dear to him
because it was for National Public Health Week. The proclamation mentioned the
local history of Southport and the Quarantine Station that was in operations
between 1895-1937. In addition, Dr. J. Arthur Dosher, Acting Assistant Surgeon
in the U.S. Public Health Service, was the Brunswick Hospital founder. The
proclamation recognized that there are inequities with respect to minorities
and economic status, and public health. Mayor Hatem reiterated that Southport
has stayed strong during the pandemic and will continue to hold the course to
come out on the other side.
CITY OF SOUTHPORT
PROCLAMATION FOR NATIONAL PUBLIC HEALTH WEEK
WHEREAS, the week of April 5-11, 2021, is National Public Health Week, and the
theme is "Building Bridges to Better Health"; and
WHEREAS, since 1995, the American Public Health Association, through its
sponsorship of National Public Health Week, has educated the public,
policymakers, and public health professionals about issues important to
improving public health; and
WHEREAS, there is a significant difference in health status, such as obesity,
poor mental health and drug use, among people living in rural areas compared
with people living in urban areas, and this variance increases because rural
residents are often more likely to face social determinants that negatively
impact health, such as poverty, transportation barriers, and lack of economic
opportunity; and
WHEREAS, public health professionals help communities prevent, prepare for,
withstand and recover from the impact of a full range of health threats,
including disease outbreaks such as the COVID-19 pandemic, measles, natural
disasters, and disasters caused by human activity; and
WHEREAS, public health action, together with scientific and technological
advances, has played a major role in reducing and, in some cases, eliminating
the spread of infectious disease, and in establishing today's disease
surveillance and control systems; and
WHEREAS, the COVID-19 pandemic has illuminated and exacerbated inequities with
respect to minority and economic status and that public health and government
leaders have declared these barriers to health care a public health crisis; and
WHEREAS, Southport has held a historic place in public health-the U.S.
Quarantine Station-active from 1895 to 1937, located on the Cape Fear River,
east of the City, where ships and their crews were inspected, decontaminated,
those sick, placed in the Quarantine Hospital, all to prevent the spread of
contagious diseases; and
WHEREAS, in 1919, Dr. J. Arthur Dosher, Southport native and founder of
Brunswick County Hospital, now Dosher Memorial Hospital, was appointed Acting
Assistant Surgeon in the U.S. Public Health Service and served as the
Quarantine Officer at the Southport Quarantine Station until 1937;
NOW, THEREFORE, I, Joseph P. Hatem, MD, M.P.H., Mayor of the City of Southport,
on behalf of the Board of Aldermen do hereby recognize April 5-11th, 2021, as
National Public Health Week.
Dutifully executed this date, April 8, 2021.
                      ___________________________________
                     Joseph P. Hatem, MD, MPH
                     Mayor, City of Southport, NC
      {'{'}seal{'}'}
 
I.) Agenda
   1.   Thomas Lloyd presented the information regarding the possible
annexation of 1136 Delaware Ave on behalf of the property owner, Jere McMillan.
The owner is requesting annexation to connect to City utilities. The property
is 0.29 acres and is currently in the City's E.T.J. area, so rezoning is not
required. At the last meeting, the Board directed the Clerk to certify the
sufficiency of the petition. The Clerk has now certified the sufficiency, and
the petition meets the requirements to be annexed. The next step is for the
Board to accept the Certificate of Sufficiency and set a date for the Public
Hearing. After a motion made by Alderman Sharkey and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem
Mosteller, the Board accepted the Clerk's Certificate of Sufficiency and set
the public hearing to discuss the McMillan annexation for their next Regular
meeting on May 13, 2021. All ayes. Motion carried.
CITY OF SOUTHPORT BOARD OF ALDERMEN
RESOLUTION FIXING DATE OF PUBLIC HEARING ON QUESTION OF ANNEXATION PURSUANT TO
N.C.G.S. 160A-58.2
FOR NON-CONTIGUOUS ANNEXATION OF PARCEL ID# 221MA003
WHEREAS, a petition requesting annexation of the area described herein has been
received; and
WHEREAS, certification by the City Clerk as to the sufficiency of the petition
has been made;
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen has by Resolution accepted the City Clerk's
Certificate of Sufficiency investigating the sufficiency of the petition; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport, North Carolina that:
   Section 1. A public hearing on the question of the annexation of the area
described herein will be held at the City of Southport Community Building at 6:
00 PM on the
______ of _____________, 2021.
   Section 2. The area proposed for annexation is described as follows:
      Beginning at an existing iron pipe, said beginning point having N.C.
State plane coordinates of N=67596.24' and E=2294812.49'. Said beginning point
being located from the Southport city limits radius stone, N35-25-18 W 5736.93'
to an existing iron pipe; thence N 07-04-15 E 56.42' to a point; thence N 07-
04-15 E 100.0' to the point of beginning. From the point of beginning
so located, running thence as follows; S 07-04-15 W 100.0' to a point; thence S
89-19-47 E 125.0' to the point of beginning containing 0.29 acres +/- as shown
on a map prepared for Jere McMillan dated January 14, 2021.
   Section 3. Notice of the public hearing shall be published in The State Port
Pilot, a newspaper having general circulation in the City of Southport, and on
the City of Southport's website, at least (10) days prior to the date of the
public hearing.
Adopted this the 8th day of April, 2021                     
                           Joseph P. Hatem, MD, MPH
                           Mayor, City of Southport
ATTEST:
               
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
   2.   Melanie Trexler addressed the Board to explain that the Families First
Coronavirus Response Act is scheduled to expire, but the state is offering tax
credits to those organizations who extend providing benefits to their
employees. The state recommends extending the benefits through September. The
employee benefits would be a fresh (80) hours of paid leave if needed because
of the Coronavirus pandemic. As Ms. Trexler explained, most City employees have
either already had Covid-19 or a complete vaccination for the virus. Therefore,
it appears that the cost of participation in the extension would be minimal.
After a motion made by Alderman John Allen and seconded by both Alderman
Sharkey and Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller, the Board approved the extension of the
Families First Coronavirus Response Act, as presented. 
CITY OF SOUTHPORT BOARD OF ALDERMEN
RESOLUTION EXTENDING PROVISIONS OF FAMILIES FIRST CORONAVIRUS RESPONSE ACT
   THAT WHEREAS, pursuant to the requirements of the Families First Coronavirus
Response Act, the City of Southport previously adopted a policy granting
employees 80 hours of paid sick leave for Covid-19 related reasons (emergency
paid sick leave or E.P.S.L.) and up to 12 weeks of paid FMLA leave (Emergency
Family and Medical Leave Act or E.F.M.L.A.) to care for a child whose place of
care or school is closed for Covid-19 related issues; and
   WHEREAS, the requirements of the Families First Coronavirus Response Act
expired on December 31, 2020; and
   WHEREAS, the City elected to continue to be bound by the Families First
Coronavirus Response Act leave requirements through March 31, 2021, as
authorized by the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021; and
   WHEREAS, the American Rescue Plan Act now authorizes cities to extend
E.P.S.L. and E.M.F.L.A. through September 30, 2021; and
   WHEREAS, the City has determined that it is in the best interests of the
City that it continue to be bound by the requirements of the Families First
Coronavirus Response Act through September 30, 2021, as authorized by the
American Rescue Plan Act;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport that:
   (1)   E.P.S.L. is hereby extended through September 30, 2021, pursuant to
and in accordance with the provisions of the American Rescue Plan Act; and
   (2)   E.F.M.L.A. is hereby extended through September 30, 2021, pursuant to
and in accordance with the provisions of the American Rescue Plan Act.
This the 8th day of April 2021.
                  ___________________________________
                  Joseph P. Hatem, MD, MPH
                  Mayor, City of Southport
__________________________
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
 
   3.   Alderman Tom Lombardi introduced the next speaker, Brayton Willis. Mr.
Willis is a lifetime member of the N.A.A.C.P. and has been involved with many
organizations, including the Army Corp of Engineers. Mr. Willis thanked the
Board for allowing him to speak at their Board meeting. He asked the audience
and Board to imagine being taken from your home and transported by boat while
in chains to a new land where no one speaks your native language. Through the
enslavement and blending of many African peoples, the Gullah Geechee people
developed. They created a new language and a food chain where groups of Gullah
Geechee people could share and distribute food to assist each other. There are
already some existing trails to recognize and celebrate the Gullah Geechee
people, but the focus is now on the coast of N.C., from Navassa to Southport.
The proposed trail would be a shared-use path for pedestrians and cyclists.
There are six overarching goals: educational outreach, economic development,
documentation, and preservation, promoting healthy living, protecting the
environment, and connecting this trail to the 3,000-mile East Coast Greenway.
Alderman Sharkey asked Mr. Willis what the next steps were or what was he
asking the Board of Aldermen for? Mr. Willis stated that he would love for the
Board to adopt a resolution in support of the trail and prepare a letter of
support for the project. Alderman Lowe Davis asked if he had any samples that
he could share with the City and Mr. Willis agreed to send some examples to the
Clerk. All of the Board members agreed to bring a Resolution to the next
meeting in May.
   4.   Thomas Lloyd explained that Premier Homes already had a preliminary
plat approval, but they resubmitted a plan with different zoning. The minimum
lot size is 10,000 square feet, and because of the number of proposed lots,
sidewalks are only required on one side. Recreation or open space is not
required, and there is a 40-foot right-of-way planned. The Developer will have
to submit all the documentation to the Public Services Department before work
can begin. After the Planning Board reviewed the plan, they requested that the
Developer save an additional 20-25 trees. The Engineers and developers were
able to save an additional 32 trees and four more on the periphery of the
tract. They are also planning almost double the required amount back. Alderman
Davis asked what would happen if the Developer cannot reach an agreement to use
the Village's retention pond? Alderman Allen confirmed that they would not be
able to obtain their other required permits until they have an agreement with
the Village. After a motion made by Alderman Allen and seconded by Mayor Pro-
tem Mosteller, the Board approved the preliminary plat for the Haven. All ayes.
Motion carried.
   5.   Gordon Hargrove explained that there had been some interest from the
Board members in being able to purchase health, vision, and dental insurance
through the City's policy. Alderman Sharkey asked if this would change the cost
of insurance for the employees, but Mr. Hargrove explained that it would not.
Alderman Davis stated that she remembers several years ago that the Board
members approved a $400 monthly pay increase to offset insurance costs since
they were no longer eligible for insurance through the City. She wanted the
public to know that the Aldermen would be paying their premiums, and they
wouldn't be paid for by the public. The premiums would be deducted from their
monthly salary. After a bit more discussion, Alderman John Allen made a motion
that Alderman Tom Lombardi seconded to approve the Resolution in Support of
Aldermen Health Coverage, as presented. All ayes. Motion carried.
   6.   Mayor Hatem reviewed the significant portions of the proposed
Resolution supporting the Bald Head Island Transit Authority purchasing and
operating the ferry system. Several representatives from the Transit Authority
were present, but there were no questions. After a motion made by Mayor Pro-tem
Mosteller and seconded by Alderman Allen, the Board approved the Resolution in
Support of the Bald Head Island Transit Authority, as presented. All ayes.
Motion carried.
RESOLUTION OF THE CITY OF SOUTHPORT IN SUPPORT OF THE BALD HEAD ISLAND
TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY
   WHEREAS, on July 18, 2017, the Governor of the State of North Carolina
signed the Ferry Transportation Authority Act, as ratified by the North General
Assembly, 2017 Session Law 120, codified at North Carolina General Statutes,
Chapter 160A, Article 29 (the "Act");
   WHEREAS, the Village of Bald Head Island (the "Village") is a municipal
corporation that is only accessible by watercraft vessel;
   WHEREAS, the Village is dependent upon a reliable, safe, and affordable
ferry system (including passenger and barge transportation services, terminal
facilities, and vehicle parking) that operates on the Cape Fear River between
Deep Point Marina in the City of Southport and Bald Head Island Marina in the
Village;
   WHEREAS, the City of Southport ("Southport") is a municipal corporation
where the mainland ferry terminal, the mainland barge terminal, and vehicle
parking for access to Bald Head Island are located;
   WHEREAS, Southport and the Village are both located in Brunswick County (the
"County");
   WHEREAS, many Southport and other Brunswick County residents are employed on
and/or regularly visit Bald Head Island and depend upon the ferry services and
parking facilities, and many residents living on, and visitors to Bald Head
Island regularly transact business in Southport and Brunswick County;
   WHEREAS, the ferry system, barge system, on-island tram system, terminals,
and parking facilities are presently owned and operated by two privately held
entities (collectively, the "Seller");
   WHEREAS, pursuant to the Act, the Village, Southport, and the County each
passed a resolution in 2017 creating a single ferry transportation authority
known as the Bald Head Island Transportation Authority (the "Authority") for
the purpose of purchasing the assets used in the operations of the ferry
system, barge system, on-island tram system, terminals, and parking facilities
(collectively, the "Ferry System"), and consolidating those operations into a
single, publicly owned entity;
   WHEREAS, in creating the Authority, the Village, Southport, and Brunswick
County engaged with each other in order to coordinate and plan for the
Authority that will operate a reliable and safe ferry and barge transportation
system to transport passengers and freight between Southport and the Village,
to provide parking facilities for those passengers on the mainland, and to
provide tram service on the island; to enhance the quality of life, mobility,
and circumstances of residents of the Village, Southport, and Brunswick County;
and to promote economic development and tourism throughout the Cape Fear
region, while protecting and preserving the environment;
   WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen has previously determined that the creation
of the Authority pursuant to the Act, was to be in the best long-term interest
of the Village, Southport, and Brunswick County, and their residents and
businesses;
   WHEREAS, the Authority was formed in August, 2017 by concurrent resolutions
adopted by the Village Council of the Village, the Board of Aldermen of
Southport and the County Commissioners of the County after public hearings as
required by the Act;
   WHEREAS, the Authority performed extensive due diligence regarding the
status, operation, and value of the Ferry System in order to complete its
statutory mandate under the Act to purchase the Ferry System at or below its
appraised value;
   WHEREAS, after completion of such diligence and extensive negotiations with
the Seller, the Authority has authorized the execution of an Asset Purchase
Agreement with the Seller to purchase the Ferry System at a purchase price that
is below its appraised value;
   WHEREAS, pursuant to the Act, the Authority intends to issue its revenue
bonds (the "Bonds') to finance the purchase of the Ferry System, and in
connection therewith has engaged an underwriter and has obtained an investment
grade rating for the Bonds;
   WHEREAS, the issuance of the Bonds must be approved by the North Carolina
Local Government Commission (the "L.G.C.");
   WHEREAS, the Authority has made application to the L.G.C. for such approval,
and has provided to the L.G.C. staff and members the information required in
connection with the issuance of the Bonds;
   WHEREAS, the L.G.C., at the request of the Village, deferred action on the
Authority's application in order for the Authority to provide additional
information to the public about the pending purchase and related bond issue,
and the Authority has held a public information session (which was attended by
more than 230 people) and provided much information to the public;
   WHEREAS, on March 22, 2021, the Village Council submitted a letter to the
L.G.C. indicating that it now wishes to purchase the Ferry System itself and
asking the L.G.C. to work with it to acquire the Ferry System instead of the
Authority, on the basis that the Ferry System exists to serve the property
owners, visitors, non-profits, and businesses that compose the unique community
of Bald Head Island;
   WHEREAS, the Village Council is elected by the permanent residents of the
Village, who constitute less than 10% of the annual ridership of the Ferry
System;
   WHEREAS, Southport continues to believe that the Authority is the best
entity to own and operate the ferry system for the benefit of the citizens of
the entire region, including the employees and contractors who work on Bald
Head Island, most of whom live in Southport, and the assets of the Ferry System
that are located in Southport;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the Board of Aldermen of the City of
Southport, as follows:
   1.   The City of Southport supports the acqms1t10n of the Ferry System by
the Authority, which Southport believes is in the best interest of Southport,
the County, and the Village, and will best support the quality of life,
mobility, and circumstances of residents of the Village, Southport, and the
County and promote economic development and tourism throughout the Cape Fear
region, while protecting and preserving the environment, in accordance with the
provisions of the Act.
   2.   The City of Southport objects to any attempted purchase or operation of
the Ferry System by the Village.
   3.   In the event the Village pursues the purchase of the Ferry System,
Southport intends to explore the possibility of acquiring and owning that
portion of the Ferry System located within the city limits of Southport.
   4.   The City Manager is instructed to provide a copy of this Resolution to
the members and staff of the L.G.C., to the County Commissioners of Brunswick
County, and to the Village Council of the Village.
   5.   This Resolution shall become effective upon its adoption.
ADOPTED by the Board of Aldermen of the City of Southport, this the 8th day of
April, 2021.
 
                     ______________________________
                     Joseph P. Hatem, M.D., M.P.H.
                     Mayor, City of Southport
___________________________
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
   6.   Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller reviewed the Yacht Basin project options and
all that the Yacht Basin Committee considered. There are two main options: A
and B. Option A consists of a pedestrian/bicycle path on the waterside of Bay
Street with a crosswalk over to Yacht Basin Drive. The path continues down
Yacht Basin Drive on the land side. Traffic would remain one-direction, but
additional signage, flashing lights, and road stripping would be installed.
Option B allows the pedestrian/bicycle path to stay on the waterside on both
Bay Street and Yacht Basin Drive. In this option, a portion of the right of way
on Yacht Basin Drive would have to be shifted because the businesses are closer
to the road. Directional signage, flashing lights, and road stripping would
also be installed. Option B does require more thermoplastic stripping.
   7.   Alderman Lombardi commented that most people walk on the waterside and
that a twelve-foot-wide lane for one-way traffic is plenty. Alderman Lombardi
said that he wasn't in support of flashing lights in that area. Alderman Davis
stated that she preferred Option B better because it is human nature to walk
closer to the water. Alderman Sharkey asked if, in the committee meetings,
there was any discussion about alternative parking areas? Mayor Pro-tem
Mosteller stated that there had been discussions about parking and that more
information would be brought before the Board in the next month. Alderman John
Allen thanked the committee for their hard work and said it had been a great
experience. He suggested that the next steps would be to discuss it at the
upcoming budget retreats and also schedule a public meeting to get as much
input as possible. Alderman Sharkey said that there are a lot of other areas
that need improvements, too. Perhaps the Board can pull the essential
components from Option B and make a third option to cover the immediate items
and then do other work in phases. The City might not be able to afford all of
the improvements at one time. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller said that they are still
discussing Brunswick Street and are making a list of priorities for that area.
The committee keeps the Yacht Basin Overlay separate from the improvements on
Brunswick Street, but it is still a big priority. And dredging the yacht basin
is of the utmost importance for the area to survive.
   Mayor Hatem stated in conclusion that the Board still has time to review the
plans and make decisions. The Yacht Basin discussion will be on the agenda at
the next Regular meeting and discussed during the capital improvements/budget
meetings. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller thanked the members of the Yacht Basin
Committee, as well as Thomas Lloyd, Gordon Hargrove, and Police Chief Coring.
   8.   City Manager Gordon Hargrove stated that budget preparation was in full
swing. Each department is finalizing its plans and requests for the upcoming
fiscal year. Mr. Hargrove proposes scheduling two budget workshops at the end
of April. After some discussion regarding availability, the Board agreed to
schedule the workshops for April 22 and April 27 from 9:00 AM to 1:00 PM.
Breakfast will be provided.
   9.   Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller, Alderman Allen, and Planning Board Chair Tish
Hatem conducted interviews for a new Planning Board alternate member. Their
recommendation is to move Gustavo Mibelli to a regular member and appoint Sue
Hodgin as the alternate. Ms. Hodgin was selected from the candidates because
she has extensive experience working with Boards, committees, and women's
groups. After a motion made by Alderman Allen and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem
Mosteller, the Board of Aldermen appointed Gustavo Mibelli as a regular member
and appointed Sue Hodgin as the alternate for the Planning Board. All ayes.
Motion carried.
Committee Reports
Alderman Lombardi reported that students have well attended the Beautification
Committee workdays. They will be meeting again soon and working on weeding and
planting.
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller stated that the streetlight committee is meeting soon
and are working on updating the streetlight policy. Music in the park will
begin on June 3. There will be music every Thursday except for the second
Thursday when the Board of Aldermen meeting is scheduled. There will also be
movies in the park scheduled, with the first on June 11, 2021, for the film,
"Dr. Doolittle."
Aldermen Davis, Sharkey, and Allen did not have anything further to report.
Manager's Comments
City Manager Gordon Hargrove said that the sewer construction project is
currently at W. Brown and West Streets. Once this section is finished, there
will be a total of (4) blocks completed, and they will have only (8) more
blocks remaining in the project. The tentative completion date is the middle of
July 2021.
Mr. Hargrove said that they have gotten good news regarding some of the
F.E.M.A. reimbursements. Debris removal reimbursement has been obligated in the
amount of $588,000. Emergency protection reimbursements have been obligated for
$58,000. Electrical service reimbursements have been obligated in the amount of
$ 296,000 and utilities in the amount of $250,000. The reimbursement for the
roads and bridges is still being processed but will likely be obligated in the
next five days. The City had to use $1.7 million from the budget to cover the
costs from the storms. Currently, all of the departments are in a good position
in their budgets. The City Manager suggested that the Aldermen ask for the
exact figures later if they want to see all of the specific totals.
Alderman Allen thanked the City Manager and the staff for their hard work on
these projects.
Mayor's Comments
Mayor Hatem thanked the City Manager. He said that the sewer project is moving
forward and is out of the main central business district. He encouraged
everyone to sign up and use Southport Connected. In honor of National Public
Health Week, the Mayor thanked the County, City, State, and Federal officials
for their work during the Covid-19 pandemic. Mayor Hatem stated that it was
National Autism Month. He reminded the audience that autism is a mystery, and
no one knows what causes it, but it affects so many. We stated that everyone
should remember how fortunate we are.
Mayor Hatem thanked the City staff and the Board of Aldermen for all of their
hard work.
Staff Reports
There were no questions regarding the monthly Staff reports.
Board Comments
Alderman Allen thanked the citizens for their patience during the sewer
project. There is never a good time to do something so disruptive, but it is
picking up speed now. He hopes that things will get back to normal later this
year. He also encouraged everyone to shop locally.
Alderman Sharkey was in the news with favorable coverage. She thanked the
Aldermen for their vote to support the Bald Head Island Transit Authority. It
is beneficial to have a solid union with the County. She announced a litter
cleanup the next Saturday at 8:45 PM Folks will be meeting at the amenity
center at River Mist.
Alderman Davis thanked Heather Hemphill and Gordon Hargrove for their hard work
on the City dock. The project is moving along so quickly. She also encouraged
everyone to get their Covid vaccinations. Alderman Davis said that when she was
a child, she was afflicted with polio. As a result, she has post- polio
symptoms. She said she still remembers the fear and panic of everyone waiting
for the polio vaccines to be available.
Alderman Lombardi thanked the Mayor and Manager for their leadership. And he
reminded everyone that there was a drug drop-off on April 22 from 9 AM to 1 PM
at Dosher Hospital.
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller thanked Tom Stanley and Lisa Anderson for passing out
flyers to let everyone affected by the additional sewer work. She wanted to let
everyone know that there are "fun things" being scheduled, including a Spring
Art Show from now until May 8 at the Franklin Square Gallery. There is also,
"Paddle Through History" event available from April 27th-June 4th. This event
is a collaboration between Adventure Kayak Company and the Historical Society.
The Board had no further comments.
After a motion was made by Alderman Lombardi and seconded by Alderman Allen,
the meeting was adjourned at 8:27 PM. All ayes. Motion carried.
                     _________________________________
                     Joseph P. Hatem, MD, M.P.H.
                     Mayor, City of Southport
_____________________________
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
APRIL 22, 2021
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
223 E. BAY STREET  APRIL 22, 2021
COMMUNITY BUILDING SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Joseph P. Hatem
         Mayor Pro-tem Karen Mosteller; Aldermen Lora Sharkey, Lowe Davis,
         Marc Spencer,   John Allen, Tom Lombardi
STAFF PRESENT:
Gordon Hargrove, City Manager               Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
Melanie Trexler, Finance Director               Thomas Lloyd, Development
Services Director
Tom Stanley, Assistant Public Works Director         David Fox, Public Works
Director
Randy Jones, Communication/Tourism Director      Lisa Anderson, Communications,
Asst. Director
Charles Drew, Fire Chief                  Ralph Treadway, Battalion Fire Chief
Todd Coring, Police Chief                  Matthew Burgess, Police Major
Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director         Ellie Pittenger,
Electrical Superintendent
OTHERS PRESENT: Tish Hatem
          Richard Alt   
A)   Call to Order – 9:01 a.m.
Mayor Hatem called the special meeting to order at 9:01 a.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Lowe Davis gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
Mayor Hatem led everyone in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D.)    Approval of Agenda
After a motion made by Alderman Allen and seconded by Alderman Lombardi, the
Board approved the agenda as presented. All ayes. Motion carried. The Mayor
took a moment to announce that it was Earth Day and how important it was. Then
he handed over the meeting to Gordon Hargrove. He welcomed the Board and Staff
to the meeting and then asked Melanie Trexler to introduce the first department
head presenter.
E.)    Department Presentations
   1. Development Services (Thomas Lloyd). 
   Mr. Lloyd said he would run through the line items in his department's
budget. He requested (1) additional position, which was already approved in the
Fall. The position is for a full-time Code Enforcement Officer. A part-time
building inspector might also be required for Level 2 & 3 inspectors. Other
requests include funding for supplies, software upgrades, forestry funds,
travel/training. The proposed department budget also included a portion of the
utilities and vehicles. Mr. Lloyd is also requesting that the City begin work
on a new CAMA Land Use Plan. The whole plan might take two years and should
cost between $30,000- 40,000. The budget includes funding for the first year of
the plan. In addition, Mr. Lloyd requested $15,000 in the budget for training
and continuing education. Mr. Lloyd explained that he did not allocate or
request any funding for digitizing existing records, like Laserfiche. Alderman
Davis asked about funding in the budget for any tree work or studies that would
be needed. Mr. Lloyd stated that he would look into that type of funding more,
but it usually gets covered through the Streets budget. Gordon Hargrove added
that the following Special Meeting would be to discuss capital improvement
projects. Mayor Hatem thanked Thomas Lloyd for his presentation and asked when
the CAMA land use plan would begin? Mr. Lloyd stated that if it were an
approved expense, a request for qualifications would be submitted, and then it
would be based on the group selected to update the plan.
   2. Public Services (Tom Stanley).
   Mr. Stanley started with the water and sewer department. He is requesting
one new employee because they need help on the crew. With David Fox retiring,
Mr. Stanley has been working in the office more. The water/sewer crew helps out
a lot in other departments, too. Mr. Stanley stated that every year, this
department has money allocated for manhole repairs, inflow and infiltration
studies, and backup pumps. This year, he is asking for two backup pumps for
aging stations. An engineer will also need to assess the best placement for 2"
lines to be installed. Last year there were 2200 feet of line scoped using a
camera. In those areas, two whole notebooks of issues were identified. Mr.
Stanley is asking for $300 000 to work on these repairs. He is also proposing a
new department fund that would serve as a preventative maintenance program
fund. The state requires that at least 10% of the lines get cleaned out and
scoped each year. Three new generators are needed: a new Ford Ranger (smaller)
truck and two administration computers. Alderman Sharkey wanted to clarify that
the position he was asking for is not new; it was a position that was not
filled previously but was already established.
   Mr. Stanley then shifted to the Buildings and Grounds Division budget.
Because of the pandemic last year, they were not able to hire any part-time
help. He is requesting one new full- time position for year-round work and two
part-time positions. The Buildings and Grounds Division also helps with the
Forestry Committee and Beautification Committee. A cargo van, (2) zero-turn
lawnmowers, and a new F150 is requested to replace aging equipment. The
gymnasium floor vacuum needs to be replaced, and it would be nice to make the
City Hall more presentable by painting or installing vinyl siding. The falling
gutters need to be repaired, and all of the ac units have maintenance twice a
year. Alderman Davis asked what the cost is of painting the City Hall. She
mentioned that there were discussions about this project last year. Tom Stanley
said that the vinyl siding installation was scheduled for $63,000. The hardy
boards were almost double that figure. Alderman Davis said that even though
painting might not be the best long-term option, it would be okay since many
other projects need funding. Tom Stanley said that this year is the first year
that all repair projects for buildings are being covered under the Buildings
and Grounds division; there are bound to be omissions and errors until we all
get used to it. Alderman Sharkey suggested that more funding goes into the
buildings that the public uses, not just the City Hall. She suggested that
maybe we shift the focus to the best of the buildings we have now and move the
activities to those facilities. The Senior building is aging out, but the
Jaycees Building is in better condition. There was some discussion about
installing audio-visual equipment in the Community Building. Alderman Davis
said that she thinks that it is so essential to allow the public to look at the
same materials that the Board is using. Gordon Hargrove commented that it was
important to get all of the maintenance under one department's umbrella, and
now a preventative maintenance program can be created. Mr. Hargrove said that a
Civil Engineering position will be added to the budget and split between water/
sewer and administration. Adding this position will reduce the contracted
services line item.
   Tom Stanley switched discussion to the Streets Department. He is requesting
a new message board sign so that both sides of the City will see updates on
road closures and projects. It will be a mobile sign and is estimated at
$17,000. Tree trimming is expensive, as well as sidewalks. He is requesting
funding for these items as well as $30,000 for new street name signs. Melanie
Trexler, the Finance Director, said they hoped to group several projects into
one Capital Project Fund and Ordinance. Mr. Stanley said that the vehicle
maintenance garage needed a tire machine for bigger tires, a new ac machine, a
new welder, and a diagnostic machine for diesel trucks. He is also requesting a
steam cleaner to degrease and a new oil receptacle. There are opportunities for
cost- sharing some of the equipment since the Fire Department uses diesel
equipment.
   3. Parks and Recreation (Heather Hemphill).
   Ms. Hemphill said that she was not requesting any staffing changes. Last
year all of the budget figures were skewed because of the pandemic. Several
projects got put on hold because government funding was cut or postponed. Ms.
Hemphill explained that part-time Staff includes summer camp counselors, rec
assistants, basketball referees, basketball coordinators, scorekeepers, and
before/after school assistants. Alderman Sharkey asked if she knew the life
expectancy is on the gymnasium? Ms. Hemphill replied that she would predict ten
to fifteen years remaining. There is a massive crack in the cement floor. She
would love for the City to develop a new community center with outdoor fields
and an indoor gym facility. We are currently the only indoor basketball
facility in the County. The bathrooms are new, and the roof probably has
fifteen years left. Alderman Spencer asked if there was an estimate for
replacing the floor. Ms. Hemphill said that she would not recommend using the
same floor. Instead, she would recommend something that would absorb the shocks
better. Laminate would be a good option once the crack was repaired. Alderman
Spencer mentioned the earlier request to purchase a new vacuum for the gym
floor and wondered if it was a better option to replace the floor instead of
buying the vacuum and replacing the floor in a few more years. Mayor Pro-tem
Mosteller mentioned that a new Parks & Recreation Plan is needed before
Southport can apply for grants. Ms. Hemphill said that the work for the Parks
and Recreation plan is included in contract services. Ms. Hemphill stated that
Staff agrees that participating in a lease for two lightning strikes equipment
towers would be helpful. There can be up to ten users. While it does not
replace the National Weather Service, it would be great to help identify
lightning patterns to make the community safer. There is a loudspeaker at each
tower that alarms the public. In addition, information would be distributed to
registered Staff members. Then information could be shared via Code Red or
social media platforms. Alderman Spencer asked whether the City contributes or
would contribute to some of the summer camps that are scheduled, in particular,
a summer camp for robotics. He said that he would love for the students who
participate in summer camps to go home with a computer at the end of summer.
Gordon Hargrove suggested adding a new line item in the budget to help support
this cause. It would start with $2500 for now.
   Ms. Hemphill shifted over to speak about the Community Building. Staff costs
haven't changed, but there was a considerable decrease in utilities because we
haven't rented the building out in a year. Routine and staffing costs are the
primary use. There are some marketing expenses, but no repairs to the building
are proposed. She suggested the need for a full-time staff member to coordinate
all facility rentals and coordinate clean-up and setups within a six-hour
window. At this point, it is hard to estimate revenues from rentals.
   4. Electrical Facilities (Ellie Pittenger).
   Mr. Pittenger addressed the Board with his budget information and requests.
He is requesting $4000 in software for power management. He is also requesting
more funding towards travel and training if things open back up and he can
attend the electrical summit. He would also like to start training some other
personnel on some of the duties that he performs. He asks for more load
management devices, backup materials for streetlight installs, Wi-Fi
thermostats, extra repeaters for the AMI system, and aluminum poles. The
connection of the public service department to a generator with an automatic
transfer switch has become more of a necessity. And he is requesting funding
for any maintenance on the department's electric (Hybrid) Ford Escape. Alderman
Allen asked if the City was giving away the Wi-Fi thermostats and load
management switches. Mr. Pittenger said that they were free to customers, but
the City did not install them. Typically, a customer has two weeks to have the
equipment installed. Once it is installed, a discount is applied. Alderman
Allen asked if an analysis had been done to compare leasing vehicles versus
purchasing them. Finance Director Melanie Trexler stated that there had been an
analysis done. The company helps the City sell vehicles and helps keep the City
from being upside-down on a vehicle payment. Alderman Davis asked what company
we were working with. Ms. Trexler said that the City has been working with
Enterprise and have been happy with the level of service. Mr. Pittenger thanked
the Board.
   5. Tourism and Communications (Randy Jones).
   Mr. Jones reminded the Board that this was the first time listing Tourism
and Communications together, and the budget reflects that. He is proposing a
full-time marketing specialist. Over the last year, Sharon Venis switched to
part-time, and Lisa Anderson moved into a full-time position. Mr. Jones said
that he was very proud of everything that Ms. Anderson has accomplished this
year. The visitor's center will be opening in June. Beautification is the only
group that there is currently a line item. Mr. Jones is requesting funds for
travel and training, IT security, special programs, including Code Red.
Alderman Davis mentioned installing a screen at the Community Building so that
the public can see the same things that the Board is seeing. Mr. Jones said
that he was under the impression that Facilities would cover it. He mentioned
that logistically it would be a challenge because of the lighting and size of
the building and social distancing issues. Mr. Hargrove stated that he would
like for the project to fall under the Communications budget. Mr. Jones said
that he is trying to balance communicating with the citizens and attracting
tourists. Mayor Hatem said that Mr. Jones does a great job, and Alderman
Lombardi said that the Beautification Committee wouldn't get half as much done
without him.
   6. Animal Protective Services (Kate Marshall).
   Ms. Marshall explained that her budget is primarily operational, with a
slight increase in supplies. She is hoping to form a partnership with
Pawsability to help support trap and release. The storing kennel is operational
and is being used. There are approximately 500 dogs who are microchipped, and
half are registered. She uses the chip reader often.
   7. Fire Department (Chief Charles Drew). 
   Chief Drew thanked the Board for allowing him to serve as Fire Chief. When
he joined the department thirty years ago, most of their funding was made
selling hotdogs or through donations. He mentioned that now people pay fire
tax. This is the third year where no increase in fees was requested. Over the
last year, the Fire Department has answered over 700 calls. They have also
transferred over 600 calls to medical facilities. The main budget item that is
requested is for a full-time EMS captain. This person would serve as a
firefighter and EMS. The City's ambulances can respond to local emergencies
within four minutes, but there has been a lack of volunteers in the last year.
They have more Fire volunteers than EMS volunteers. There was some discussion
about the fire station space that was donated by Lowe's. Once that facility is
open, they will not use the Long Beach Drive station. The Fire fees are based
on square footage.
   8. Police Department (Chief Todd Coring & Major Burke). 
   Chief Coring thanked the Board for taking the time to listen to their
requests. This past year was challenging because of the pandemic, hurricanes,
and national attention on police officers nationwide. In order to make
retention a priority, he recommends increasing everyone’s salary by $4,000. If
they compare themselves with other departments of a similar size, their
salaries are less. The Police Department is requesting funding for training and
travel, contract services, and technology upgrades to the vehicles. Outfitting
a new officer costs between $3500-$4500. Since he became Chief, two officers
have left their positions because of salaries. They are working on moving
evidence over into the City hall evidence room because there is mold in the old
building. Chief Coring said that he does not want Southport to become a
training department where new officers get training, get a good start, and then
transfer to a different department somewhere because there is more money. He
would like to raise the starting salaries to $40,000. Mayor Hatem agreed that
retention is necessary and creates a sense of familiarity and investment in the
community. He thanked the department for their responsiveness to the hospital.
Chief Coring said that community policing is so important. Now the Police
Department participates in delivering gift bags to a nursing facility, helps
deliver meals, and works with local businesses to help develop an
individualized security plan. Alderman Spencer asked how many police officers
live in Southport. Chief Coring answered that two officers did. Alderman
Spencer said that he would encourage the officers to buy a home in Southport.
Perhaps the City could help incentivize living in Southport by paying closing
costs, etc. Alderman Davis mentioned that there are always calls out to Walmart
and asked if there was an officer there all the time? Chief Coring said that
they have a good relationship with Walmart now since they met with corporate
leadership. They have worked with the security staff at Walmart to create
better security patterns.
   9. Finance Department (Melanie Trexler).
   Ms. Trexler began by stating that she is very proud of the ladies and
gentlemen in the administrative and finance departments. They are all doing a
great job, and customers appreciate the information that they have. She said
that when everyone uses open communications, it helps things go smoothly. We
have all learned lessons because of Covid. The City is on track to have a
timely audit this year. The Board's budget is spread between three funds:
general fund, water fund, and the sewer fund. The Board pays a portion of the
attorney's fees. Travel and training line item has increased. Some trainings
are opening back up, and there is no substitute for interacting with people in
person for trainings. The City Clerk is proposing CivicClerk software and
tablets for the Board of Aldermen for the agendas. For the software and
tablets, Ms. Trexler has allocated $11,000. Alderman Spencer said that he was
in full support and was glad that it was considered and budgeted. The
transition from paper agendas to electronic agendas should take place by July
1, 2021.
   Alderman Davis asked if the City needed to allocate election funding this
year for municipal elections? Ms. Trexler said that was correct, and the
funding was listed. She wasn't sure what happened to the spreadsheet but would
make sure to fix it. Administration salaries have a built-in bump up of 4% for
the following year. The three departments also fund the City Manager, City
Clerk, and Deputy Clerk positions. Travel, training, and supplies increased.
Alderman Davis asked about how many years are left paying the debt service
payment for the Fire Department building? Ms. Trexler said that she wasn't
exactly sure, but it was still a long time. Lastly, Ms. Trexler said that FEMA
has allocated a little over a million in reimbursements. She said that if any
Board members have questions, they are welcome to call her anytime.
   Ms. Trexler said that it would be excellent to hire a company to handle
payroll. There is a company that would handle all of the payroll processing,
taxes, and reporting for $6700. Over the last five years, the payroll position
has evolved to something more complicated. Now it takes up a lot more time than
it used to. If we contract with the payroll company, we don't have to pay
benefits, and employees will be able to use an online platform to make changes
to their information. Staff is currently reviewing health care options because
our contract with Medcost ends June 30, 2021. The weather tower funds will be
added to the spreadsheet for the next meeting. Alderman Allen asked if the City
could do something about the area's appearance where the tower was? City
Manager Hargrove said that it is coned off because we were worried about people
using metal detectors on the site. Ms. Trexler also mentioned that three
capital projects were omitted from the spreadsheet by accident. They will be
added to the spreadsheet by the next meeting. Ms. Trexler asked if the Board
had any other questions?
   Gordon Hargrove summarized by saying that there had been a lot of good
information presented today. The revenue-building ideas selected will determine
what capital projects that the City can complete. We also need more water in
our reserve. The following Special Budget meeting on April 28, 2021, will
include time to discuss water allocation. Mr. Hargrove is very proud of Staff
for developing this budget. Thanks to Ms. Trexler and Department heads.
F.)    Adjournment
After a motion made by Alderman Marc Spencer and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem
Karen Mosteller, the Mayor adjourned the Special Meeting at 1:27 p.m. All ayes.
Motion carried.
                     ____________________________________
                     Joseph P. Hatem, MD, MPH
                     Mayor, City of Southport
___________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
APRIL 28, 2021
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
223 E. BAY STREET  APRIL 28, 2021
COMMUNITY BUILDING SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Joseph P. Hatem
         Mayor Pro-tem Karen Mosteller; Aldermen Lora Sharkey, Lowe Davis,
         Marc Spencer,   John Allen, Tom Lombardi
STAFF PRESENT:
Gordon Hargrove, City Manager         Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
Melanie Trexler, Finance Director         Thomas Lloyd, Development Services
Director
Randy Jones, Communication/Tourism Director   Lisa Anderson, Communications,
Asst. Director
Ralph Treadway, Battalion Fire Chief          Adam Montgomery, Water
Distribution ORC
OTHERS PRESENT: Richard Alt
          Gary Pethe, State Port Pilot
A)   Call to Order – 9:08 am.
   Mayor Hatem called the special meeting to order at 9:08 am.
B)   Invocation
   Alderman Lowe Davis gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Mayor Hatem led everyone in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D.)   Approval of Agenda
   After a motion made by Alderman Allen and seconded by Alderman Sharkey, the
Board approved the agenda as presented. All ayes. Motion carried. The Mayor
expressed his thanks to everyone in attendance. He said that working on the
budget is like painting a canvas. We want future generations to look back and
say that the Board and Staff made the best decisions. A strong budget takes not
only the financial allocations but a lot of ideas and hard work.
Summary from Previous Meetings
   Gordon Hargrove approached the podium. He wanted to remind everyone that
this was not the final version of the budget. Staff will go back and add
capital projects and revenue-generating ideas. The budget will be presented
again, hopefully at the end of the following week. He said that a few items
that were discussed last week have been added. These include the diesel
diagnostic machine, $10,000 for consulting fees, $2500 for robotic camps,
$25,000 for an audio-visual system in the Community Building, election
expenses, 1.5 positions for public services, and a full-time position for
marketing and Community building management. There was some discussion about
the Community Building moving under the Tourism department. Randy Jones said
that he wanted to make sure that he would maintain the quality of the position.
Mr. Hargrove stated that all of the other buildings (Jaycees, Senior Center)
would remain under Parks and Recreation. Tourism and Communications would have
a total of three and a half employees.
E.)   Water Allocation
   Mr. Hargrove started discussions about water allocation by referencing the
memo that he provided to the Board. The State of NC requires us to have a
reserve capacity of water for emergencies equal to at least 50% of daily usage.
Right now, we are bumping up against that figure. Adam Montgomery approached
Mr. Hargrove about the concerns, and they began exploring options. The existing
water tower is not in good condition, so it cannot be used. A new water tower
would cost approximately 4 million dollars to construct. We have six wells at
Sunny Point providing good quality and plentiful water, but the problem is
connecting it to the main City area. Staff agrees that the best option would be
to increase the reserve purchase from the County. After trying to calculate the
proposed growth in the next five to ten years, Southport might have as many as
3,000 new residences. City staff anticipates needing 230,000 gallons of water
capacity for the next five to ten years. The County is offering to finance it
for nine years, making our yearly payment around $140,000. Now, we need to
figure out how to pay for it.
   Last year, approximately $68,000 was paid in water development fees. We are
also going to be receiving funding from the American Rescue Plan. We will be
receiving two payments of $600,000, one year apart. The ARP funding can improve
infrastructure, and Mr. Hargrove believes that the City will be collecting even
more Water Development Fees in the next few years. Mr. Hargrove and Staff need
authorization from the Board to begin negotiations with Brunswick County.
   Alderman Lombardi asked for more information about the water tower on Howe
Street that is inoperable. Mr. Montgomery explained that the existing water
tower has areas where the metal is so thin that it is leaking. A contractor
made repairs to the tank because it is unstable without water inside. Alderman
Allen asked if anything besides water could fill the tank, but Mr. Montgomery
stated that an engineer would have to approve that. There were discussions
about purchasing half of the proposed capacity. Mr. Hargrove mentioned that the
capacity fee now is more reasonable, at approximately $4.00 a gallon, and the
interest rate is between 2-3%. Because of the price of the contract, the Local
Government Commission will have to approve the financing. Melanie Trexler added
that with 2.25% interest, the yearly payment would be around $147.400 a year
for nine years. Alderman Allen recommends entering into a contract for 115,000
gallons of capacity now and maybe 115,000 gallons of capacity in five years.
Alderman Allen made a motion authorizing the City Manager to negotiate with
Brunswick County to purchase water reserve capacity in the amount of 115,000
gallons with the option to purchase an additional 115,000 gallons in five years
with the same rate, allowing for inflation. Mr. Montgomery explained that the
City has a lot of construction going on already, and we are close to exceeding
our current allocation. Alderman Allen stated that he would think that the
County would be willing to sell some capacity each year if needed. Mr. Hargrove
stated the County has already said that they do not want to negotiate every two
years, that the City should purchase as much as they will need for the future.
After more discussion, the motion was revised. A motion was made by Alderman
Allen and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Karen Mosteller to authorize the City
Manager to negotiate with Brunswick County to purchase water reserve capacity
with the provision that he should request 115,000 gallons initially with the
option to purchase an additional 115,000 gallons, as needed. Mr. Hargrove is
authorized to negotiate the purchase of up to 230,000 gallons if needed. All
ayes. Motion carried.
   Mr. Hargrove suggested a quick break, and Mayor Hatem dismissed everyone at
10:11 am for a ten-minute break.
F.)   Capital Projects and Revenue Generation Discussion
   The meeting was called to order at 10:28 am by Mayor Hatem. Mr. Hargrove
asked the Board to look over a spreadsheet that was provided. There is no way
to predict the cost of some of the projects listed, including items like open
space conservation and public safety. The items are color-coded by level of
priority. Yellow is the least important, orange is moderately important, and
red is the highest priority. There are some other funding mechanisms, including
loans. The Local Government Commission will only allow the City to leverage
themselves to a certain point. A tax increase is one option. For every penny
that taxes are raised, it generates $100,000. At the last Board meeting, Mr.
Hargrove mentioned the reimbursements from FEMA. The Kingsley Park project is
the last one to go into the portal. The City just received reimbursement from
Hurricane Dorian. The City will likely be about 99% reimbursed from FEMA by the
end of the year. The City has to front the money for projects, and then FEMA
will reimburse us. The reimbursement funds are proposed to be allocated such
that $300,000 will return to the Electric fund. $700,000 can be used as seed
money for other capital projects. Some funding usually stays in reserve for
storms. Mr. Hargrove recommends considering a three-cent tax increase and a
combination of taxes collected and FEMA refunds for projects. Then the balance
can remain in the storm fund.
   City roads are in terrible condition. Mr. Hargrove recommends allocating
$400,000 in road projects. We need to address a stormwater plan community-wide.
Some grants are available, but there are obstacles when applying for grants.
Southport has a high median income, which often reduces our chances of being
awarded grants. The American Rescue Plan has to be directly applied to the
response to the Covid-19 impacts. Mr. Hargrove doesn't think that we can repair
roads with the funds, but we can possibly use the funds to improve the sewer
system. Mr. Hargrove stated that of all the complaints he receives, the three
most prevalent complaints are street, stormwater, and pedestrian safety.
Another option for funding is to monetize tourist visits by installing a pay
for parking program.
   Alderman Allen stated that he needs more visual aids to help delineate the
amounts coming in, the cost of the proposed projects, and funding ideas. The
state government requires a 30% fund balance. Alderman Sharkey suggested making
the projects that are shovel-ready a priority. These projects are the
pedestrian safety plan at the Yacht Basin, Howe Street sidewalk project, the
kayak launch, Bay Street and sidewalk repair, and managing erosion on Brunswick
Street. Mayor Hatem stated that road improvements are essential. The citizens
of Southport do not deserve to ride through all the craters. Powell bill
funding provides $108,000 a year towards road improvements. Assistant Public
Works Director, Tom Stanley, estimates that it would cost approximately 4.7
million dollars to improve all the roads in the City. Alderman Lombardi
recommends that inspections will be done of the roads and then proceed with
improvements as needed. Alderman Sharkey said that she also speaks to citizens
and tourists about the condition of the roads. She also asked about the
feasibility of a pay-for-parking system. Mr. Hargrove stated that he has
already started that process. He is looking into other coastal communities, and
Major Burke from the Southport PD is gathering information. A committee of
Staff was asked to identify the number of parking spaces available near the
intersection of N. Howe Street and Moore Street. The group identified 850
parking spaces. He has not brought the item to the Board yet because he wants
to weed through the information first.
   Mr. Hargrove reminded the Board that a 30% fund balance is recommended, but
it doesn't have to be upwards of 50%, either. That is the citizens' money, and
the City doesn't need to sit on it; they need to invest back into the
community. Alderman Sharkey said that she would suggest dropping the kayak
launch project to focus on the erosion on Brunswick Street if needed. Alderman
Allen said that the marina was willing to contribute 50% to the kayak launch,
so we should move on that while we have that offer. There was a brief
discussion about the Kingsley Pier repairs and parking area. Mayor Pro-tem
Mosteller said that the erosion on Brunswick Street should be prioritized
because we are one storm away from nonexistent. Mr. Hargrove said that we are
waiting on CAMA approval, but they will find the funding.
   Mr. Hargrove asked the Board if a tax increase could be included as an
option in the proposed budget. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller said that she would like
to see all the scenarios with the current revenues first before making that
decision. Mayor Hatem agreed that the Board needs to see where the existing
funding will be spent and see where there are deficits before a decision is
made about taxes. Mr. Hargrove stated that any tax increase would be used for
capital projects. Overall, the Board was willing to entertain a tax increase as
long as it was justified. Alderman Spencer asked if we could hold out a couple
of years until the next County tax valuation was completed. Then the City would
potentially already get more tax revenue. Alderman Sharkey stated that the City
should fund the most visible projects to the public, not more studies. The
public is more receptive to tax increases if there is a more tangible benefit.
Alderman Lombardi believes a tax increase should be at least considered.
Alderman Davis stated that she understands that a tax increase is a
possibility. The median income is higher, but many people do not have a high
income. Mr. Hargrove said that they would present different scenarios with
varying tax increases.
   Mr. Hargrove introduced the idea of implementing a stormwater fee. Short of
having a stormwater engineer on Staff, it will be difficult to assess the
correct fee. Mr. Hargrove suggests a possible blanket fee for all households,
even $5.00 a month. That is not a lot, and the money can be allocated for city-
wide stormwater improvements. Stormwater issues are City-wide. Alderman Davis
asked if there are other models that we can use to compare and find a way to
make it work for us? Mr. Hargrove said that every municipality is different
geographically, and we need to make sure that our plan suits us. Alderman
Lombardi suggested that maybe it be called something else to prevent everyone
getting upset if the City is making improvements in other areas, away from
where they reside. Alderman Sharkey suggested that $5.00 a month is too much
for people to pay right now because people that don't have a stormwater issue
won't think it is justified. There was more discussion about the need for
better stormwater management. Alderman Allen said that we all pay County taxes,
even though we don't use all the provided services. He thinks it is good to
have a study done before fees are implemented, but he favors working on a
stormwater solution. Mr. Hargrove explained that much of the City's stormwater
comes from Cottage Creek and Bonnett's Creek.
   Mr. Hargrove said that the discussions have come full circle and have been
very thorough. Lunch had arrived, so he suggested taking a break and then
coming back together to go through the departmental requests. He said that at
least one additional meeting is needed after he and Ms. Trexler reorganize the
requests and priorities. He suggested Friday, May 7, 2021, from 9:00 am until
around noon. And then, if it looked like one more meeting was needed, they
could meet on Friday, May 14, 2021, from 9:00 am to around noon. The Board all
agreed. Once everything was pinned down, the budget is submitted to the Local
Government Commission for approval, and the FY 21-22 Budget can be approved at
the June Board meeting. Mayor Hatem excused everyone for lunch.
   Mayor Hatem called the Board to order at 12:32 pm after a brief lunch break.
Mr. Hargrove stated that the Board needed to consider all of the requests from
the different departments. Development Services requested an increase in
contract services, up to $30,000. At least a portion of this would be spent
updating the CAMA Land Use Plan, but the expense might be shared over two
fiscal years.
   Mr. Hargrove said that they could not develop the funding for all of the
positions that Public Services requested, but they have budgeted for (1) full-
time and (1) part-time person. Everyone has a specific job title, but they all
tend to work together to complete tasks. Alderman Sharkey asked about what will
happen after David retires, and Tom Stanley is promoted to Director of the
department. It was determined that the extra position would be added back into
the budget if the budget allowed. There are no new positions proposed at the
garage. The diesel diagnostic machine and some other equipment will be split
between the garage and the Fire Department. In the streets budget, road
improvements are to be funded by the capital improvement fund. There are no
changes to the water/sewer fund. Alderman Sharkey asked which department would
host the proposed civil engineer, and Mr. Hargrove said it would be grouped
with the Public Services department.
   The only proposed change for the Parks and Recreation department is the
$2600 added to departmental supplies to donate to the robotics and other summer
camps. The Community Building could remain under Parks and Recreation, but Mr.
Hargrove is proposing adding a new position under Tourism and Communications.
The position would serve 50% in marketing and 50% Community Building. Mayor
Pro- tem Mosteller and Alderman Allen both agreed that dividing the time is
wise. Mr. Randy Jones said that he would figure out how to make it work for
them. In addition, they are budgeting $25,000 for audio-visual improvements at
the Community Building. No are no proposed changes to the Electric funding.
Animal Protective Services department did not propose any significant changes,
but Code Enforcement is being split from the department and will fall under
Development Services. Mr. Hargrove stated the cat storage area at the Indian
Trail Meeting Hall would have to be relocated.
   The Fire and Police departments make up half of the budget. The Fire
Department asked for an EMS Captain. The department has trouble finding
volunteers, so hiring a captain would eliminate the need for so many volunteer
hours. The Board agreed on the position. The Police Department requested an
increase in wages to make their salaries in line with other departments in the
area. Hiring officers is an expensive investment between training and
equipment. We want to try to retain officers once they are here. The Mayor
reminded everyone that the Police department has the same number of officers
all year long, but when it is summertime and all the tourists are here, they
have a lot more work to do to ensure that everyone stays safe. The entire Board
was in support of the salary increases.
   Mr. Hargrove said there were just a couple of general government budget
changes. Ms. Dutton reminded the Board that tablets and agenda software were
included in the budget. The Deputy Clerk, Tanya Shannon, and Ms. Dutton had
narrowed the possible tablets down to either the 8th generation iPad or the
Samsung Galaxy S7. The Board stated that they were ready to move forward. A
couple of months ago, the Board approved a 2.5% raise for all employees that
would be backdated to February. This proposed budget includes a 1.5% cost of
living raise. Performance appraisals will begin in the departments soon. Ms.
Melanie Trexler stated that she recently spoke to Enterprise, from whom we
lease vehicles. The Police Department is requesting (4) new vehicles, but they
can sell many others to be almost fiscally neutral. She expects the projections
about health insurance soon, and she has been informed there will likely be a
decrease in rates. Mr. Hargrove said that they have gone through everything
that they had planned for the Board. There has been a lot of progress in
narrowing things down. He wanted to thank Melanie Trexler for all of her effort
and time. He also wants to thank the department heads for working on their
parts of the budget. And lastly, thanks to the Mayor and Board of Aldermen. He
predicts a balanced budget in June.
   All of the Aldermen took turns thanking the City Manager, Finance Director,
and Department Heads for their hard work on the proposed budget. Mayor Hatem
provided some closing comments, expressed gratitude to the Board and Staff for
their hard work, and thanked Randy Jones and Lisa Anderson for their efforts to
broadcast the meeting information to the public. After a motion made by Mayor
Pro-tem Karen Mosteller and seconded by Aldermen Thomas Lombardi, the Mayor
adjourned the meeting at 1:26 pm. All ayes. Motion carried.
                  _________________________________________
                  Joseph P. Hatem, M.D., M. P.H.
                  Mayor, City of Southport
___________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
MAY 7, 2021
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING MAY 7, 2021
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Joseph P. Hatem
         Mayor Pro-tem Karen Mosteller; Aldermen Lora Sharkey, Lowe Davis,
         Marc Spencer,   John Allen, Tom Lombardi
STAFF PRESENT:
Gordon Hargrove, City Manager         Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
Melanie Trexler, Finance Director         Ralph Treadway, Battalion Fire Chief
Randy Jones, Communication/Tourism Director   Lisa Anderson, Communications,
Asst. Director
OTHERS PRESENT: Richard Alt
       Gary Pethe, State Port Pilot
A)   Call to Order – 9:04 a.m.
Mayor Hatem called the special meeting to order at 9:04 a.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Lowe Davis gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
Mayor Hatem led everyone in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D.)    Approval of Agenda
After a motion made by Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller and seconded by Alderman Allen,
the Board approved the agenda as presented. All ayes. Motion carried. The Mayor
informed everyone of a fire that occurred at the Christian school the night
before the meeting. Thankfully, no one was injured. He expressed his gratitude
that no one was hurt and for all of the work by the Southport Fire Department.
   Mayor Hatem reminded everyone that at the hospital, the emergency staff has
to make quick decisions. With the budget, the Board has some time to think
about each issue and ensure that they make the right decisions. He said that
the City Hall is a reflection of the City, Staff, and all citizens. We should
not let it get in too bad of shape because it will be harder to repair. He
asked the Board to think about the maintenance at the cemeteries and whether
the City should contract with a lawn care company to help maintain its
appearance.
E.)    Capital Projects and Funding Mechanisms
City Manager Gordon Hargrove approached the podium at 9:14 a.m. to address the
Board. He explained to the Board that the version of the budget that was
distributed was a good representation of the final budget, that only minor
changes might need to be made.
As an update from the last budget meeting, Mr. Hargrove stated that Brunswick
County was amenable to participating in the water allocation contract with the
City. They are also happy to accommodate the request to sell half (115,000
gallons) of the expected allocation now and then the other half in
approximately (36) months. They will start working on getting a contract in
place and finalizing the details.
   Mr. Hargrove stated that the City has a healthy fund balance of 60%, and he
is not proposing a tax increase this year. Capital projects can be funded with
fund balance. Previously, Staff was proposing $700,000 for capital projects,
but now they are proposing $1.2 million. The Bay Street collapse is a top
priority. There will be an erosion control project from the high-water mark to
the pavement, including sandbags, backfilling, and rip wrap. Alderman Lowe
Davis suggested that the area of Brunswick Street in front of her home needs
some erosion control measures. Mr. Hargrove said that it might be too late to
add it to the current proposed budget, but it is always good to identify
projects that need work. Alderman Allen asked if the money proposed in the
budget for paving was inclusive of Powell Bill funding, but Ms. Melanie Trexler
said that it was not included.
   Mr. Hargrove stated that it seems that NCDOT was willing to work with the
City on the repaving of Howe Street so that the City won’t have such a great
expense. The Kingsley Park repairs are only going to include the portions that
were damaged. FEMA should be obligating funds within the next week or two.
Staff is proposing $100,000 “seed” money to start addressing the City’s
stormwater issues. While a complete stormwater plan would probably cost about
$5 million, it is just a start. The improvements of the pedestrian corridor at
the Yacht Basin might have to be postponed until the fall since tourists are
already here. The improvements at the Yacht Basin will be expensive because of
the amount of thermoplastic striping and paving. Alderman Mosteller suggested
allocating $150,000 for the kayak launch. This amount does not include the
promised contribution by the Marina. She suggested the City look into possible
grants through CAMA.
   The City Hall improvements would consist of either vinyl siding or
Hardiplank siding. There is a significant difference in cost. All of the
capital projects included in the upcoming fiscal year budget total
approximately 1.7 million dollars. The City is expecting FEMA reimbursements of
about $575,000. The total amount that Staff suggests reallocating from the
general fund towards capital projects is around 1.2 million dollars.
   Melanie Trexler, the Finance Director, explained that even after the
allocation from the general fund, the fund balance would be approximately 41%.
The Local Government Commission recommends a fund balance of 30% or greater.
Alderman Allen said that he wants to make sure that the City is in a good
position to handle the effects of a bad storm or hurricane. Alderman Sharkey
asked if it was possible to shift money between the items as long as they were
all included in the capital projects ordinance, and Ms. Trexler said that it is
possible. After a motion made by Alderman Allen and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem
Mosteller, the Board requested that Staff create a capital projects ordinance
for the projects to be included. All ayes. Motion carried .
   Melanie Trexler said that she wanted to speak to the Board about the
Enterprise leasing program. Police Major Tony Burke was present to answer any
additional questions. The City already has a lease contract with Enterprise,
but there are some great deals right now, and Ms. Trexler recommends the City
participating. There are several vehicles that the City can sell through
Enterprise and would end up making almost $176,000 that will be used towards
new leases. Total, Ms. Trexler proposes that the City lease (6) Ford F150’s,
(1) Ford F250, and a couple of police interceptors. The cost would be about
$80,000 a year. After a motion made by Alderman Allen and seconded by Alderman
Sharkey, the Board agreed that the City should move forward with the lease of
the new vehicles and instructed Ms. Trexler to make a budget amendment for
their approval. All ayes. Motion carried.
   Mr. Hargrove summarized the meeting and information and reminded the Board
that they should consider the budget that is currently in front of them. The
first tenant of public administration is to do no harm. The proposed budget
does a lot of good for the City and puts the City in a good position. The Board
agreed to go through some questions so that an additional meeting was not
needed. There was some discussion to clarify certain line items and the amount
of funding that is proposed. Alderman Sharkey asked whether the City should
consider increasing the system development fees to the maximum to help cover
the cost of the water allocation and the increase of the Brunswick County
rates. Ms. Trexler reminded the Board that an updated study would have to be
done to increase the SDF rates. The Mayor mentioned the replacement of the
weather tower that was damaged during a storm. He said that the total cost
would probably be around $50,000, and so far, they have raised $19,000. The
Board agreed that no meeting would be required on May 14, 2021, because there
will still be a public hearing.
F. Adjournment
   After a motion made by Alderman Lombardi and seconded by Alderman Allen, the
Mayor adjourned the meeting at 10:30 a.m. All ayes. Motion carried.
                  _________________________________________
                  Joseph P. Hatem, M.D., M. P.H.
                  Mayor, City of Southport
___________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
MAY 13, 2021
Regular Meeting Minutes
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  Regular Meeting Minutes
223 E. BAY STREET  May 13, 2021; 6:00 p.m.
COMMUNITY BUILDING SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
Present:    Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor Pro Tem Karen Mosteller, Aldermen
Thomas Lombardi, Lora Sharkey, Lowe Davis, Lora Sharkey, Marc Spencer, and John
Allen.
Staff Present:   Gordon Hargrove, City Manager
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
   Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
   Thomas Lloyd, Developmental Services Director
   Heather Hemphill, Parks and Recreation Director
   David Fox, Public Services Director
   Tom Stanley, Assistant Public Services Director
   Paul "Ellie" Pittenger, Electrical Superintendent
   Kate Marshall, Animal Control/Code Enforcement
   Ralph Treadway, Battalion Fire Chief
   Todd Coring, Police Chief
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   Randy Jones, Communications/Tourism Director
   Lisa Anderson, Communications, Assistant Director
Others Present: Gary Pethe, with the State Port Pilot, Jack Gordon with the
U.S. Coast Guard, Lisa Anderson, the Director of Nursing at Dosher Memorial,
Stuart Milton, from Trinity Methodist, the majority of the Southport Police
Department, Sam Shore with the Cape Fear Council of Governments, and several
concerned citizens.
Meetings are now open to the public. Full audio/video is available on the
City's website or can be requested from the City Clerk's office.
Call to order by Mayor Joseph P. Hatem at 6:02 p.m.
Mr. Stuart Milton, the pastor of Trinity Methodist, gave the invocation.
Everyone joined Mayor Hatem in reciting the Pledge of Allegiance.
Public Comment: None
Approval of Agenda
Alderman Allen made a motion to approve the agenda, with the removal of the
N.C.D.O.T. presentation. Alderman Lombardi seconded the motion. All ayes.
Motion carried.
Mayor Joseph P. Hatem read the ethics statement.
Alderman Lowe Davis asked to be recused from voting on the appointment of the
City Alternate position with the Board of Adjustment because the individual
being considered is her family member. Attorney Mike Isenberg stated that there
was probably not any legal issue with her voting on the matter. But after a
motion made by Alderman Allen and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller, the
Board recused Alderman Davis from participating in the appointment. All ayes.
Motion carried.
Approval of Consent Agenda
Approval of April 8, 2021 Board of Aldermen Regular Meeting Minutes
Approval of April 22, 2021 Board of Aldermen Budget Workshop Minutes
Approval of April 28, 2021 Board of Aldermen Budget Workshop Minutes
Ordinance Amending Section 3-21 of the Code of Ordinances (Animal Protective
Services)
Surplus Ladder Truck Resolution and Donation
Resolution Opposing HB 496
Resolution Opposing HB 401
Budget Amendment #10
A motion was made by Alderman Allen and seconded by Alderman Sharkey to approve
the consent agenda. All ayes. Motion carried.
Special Recognition:
Mayor Hatem approached the podium. He said that a lot was going on this month
and groups to recognize.
Mayor Hatem mentioned that the first proclamation is especially poignant as the
local news announced that two brothers had passed away from drowning in the
Intercoastal Waterway. He asked Mr. Jack Gordon to come towards the podium as
he read the proclamation for National Boater Safety Week May 22-28 th .
Mayor Hatem asked David Fox to stand with him at the podium while he read the
proclamation in appreciation of David Fox's service to the City and wished him
well in his retirement. City staff also presented him with a rocking chair.
Police Chief Coring stood beside Mayor Hatem, and the police department staff
stood at the front near the Board. Mayor Hatem read a proclamation for National
Police Week May 9-15 th . He thanked the police department for being
approachable.
Lisa Anderson, Director of Nursing at Dosher Memorial, was asked to stand up
front with the Mayor, and he read the proclamation for National Nurses Week,
May 6-12 th . Mayor Hatem mentioned the history of the nursing profession and
that nurses served with courage and determination during the Covid-19 pandemic.
The proclamation celebrating the Anniversary of the American Red Cross was read
next. He mentioned how important the Red Cross has been in the Southport area
over the years, including in March 1942, when a U-boat blew up a boat carrying
crude oil off the coast of Southport.
May is Military Appreciation Month. Mayor Hatem read a proclamation thanking
the military for their dedication and selflessness.
Mayor Hatem read the Proclamation for National Hurricane Preparedness Week May
2-8 th . He encouraged the public to make safety plans in advance of any storms
that may develop this year.
Agenda
Mayor Hatem opened the public hearing at 6:39 p.m. to discuss the annexation of
1136 Delaware Street. Development Services Director, Thomas Lloyd, stated to
the Board that the McMillan's request the noncontiguous annexation to receive
City utilities. There is no rezoning required because the property is already
in the City's extra-territorial jurisdiction. Mayor Hatem closed the public
hearing at 6:41 p.m. After a motion made by Alderman Davis and seconded by
Alderman Lombardi, the Board approved the annexation of 1136 Delaware Street
and the annexation ordinance, as presented. All ayes. Motion carried.
The Mayor opened the public hearing at 6:42 p.m. to discuss the updates to the
Unified Development Ordinance because of the G. S. 160D changes. Sam Shore, a
Regional Planner with the Cape Fear Council of Governments, was present to help
answer any questions. Mr. Lloyd read through the 160D changes. He explained
that there are not many statutory changes. Alderman Lombardi mentioned that he
was apprehensive because of the section involving streets and conditions when
the City adopts streets for maintenance. Thomas Lloyd, Sam Shore, and Mike
Isenberg spent a few minutes answering questions about road adoption. Aldermen
Allen mentioned that it would be even better when an engineer is on staff with
the City. After a motion made by Alderman Sharkey and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem
Mosteller, the Board approved the Land Use Consistency Statement and the
ordinance amendment regarding the 160D changes. All ayes. Motion carried.  
At a past meeting, questions were raised about the Aldermen's monthly stipend,
so to clarify, a resolution was presented that defined the stipend as
discretionary. Mayor Hatem read the Resolution aloud. After a motion by
Alderman Allen and seconded by Alderman Davis, the Board approved the
Resolution Clarifying the Intent of the Aldermen's Stipend. All ayes. Motion
carried. 
City Manager, Gordon Hargrove, read aloud the Resolution in Support of the
Gullah Geechee Heritage Trail. If funded, the City of Southport will be part of
a greenway and blue way trail system with historical, economic, and cultural
benefits for the City. After a motion made by Alderman Spencer and seconded by
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller, the Board approved the Resolution in Support of the
Gullah Geechee Heritage Trail. All ayes. Motion carried. 
Alderman Lombardi stated that the leaders of the Board of Adjustment had
conducted several interviews for the City Alternate position. Although all of
the candidates were good, they decided to recommend Jason Robbins. Alderman
Sharkey mentioned that one of the other candidates has experience on a Planning
Board and asked why Mr. Robbins was more qualified. Alderman Lombardi answered
that the decision was not an easy one, but in the end, they decided on Mr.
Robbins. After a motion by Alderman Lombardi and seconded by Alderman Allen,
the Board of Aldermen appointed Jason Robbins to the Board of Adjustment for a
three-year term to expire in May 2024. All ayes. Motion carried.
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller gave an update on the proposed improvements in the
Yacht Basin area. The Yacht Basin committee has developed five recommendations
but will ask the Planning Board to review a few items. The recommendations are:
1. establish a yacht basin overlay district so that vacant property can be used
for parking; 2. establish a local historic district in the yacht basin area so
that projects might be able to retain their historical character and be waived
from current F.E.M.A. standards; 3. maintain open space district rezoning
within marsh areas; 4. consider establishing paid parking to help pay for
infrastructure improvement-city wide, and 5. consider the adoption of
historical marker signage to inform the public about the history of the yacht
basin. The Board of Aldermen asked to move the signage projects to the
Communications department. There will likely be a public meeting to discuss the
improvements, and Alderman Sharkey added that the Police department should make
recommendations, too. Alderman Allen made a motion that directs the Planning
Board to consider the five recommendations. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller seconded
the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.
After a motion set by Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller and seconded by Alderman Allen,
the Board set the public hearing to discuss the FY21-22 Budget for the next
regular meeting on June 10, 2021. All ayes. Motion carried.
Finance Director Melanie Trexler explained the proposed Capital Projects
Ordinance to the Board of Aldermen. She stated that all of the identified
projects are listed and left another general statement for projects the Board
might want to add later. The Mayor thanked all of the City Staff for their help
in getting to this point. After a motion made by Alderman Allen and seconded by
Alderman Lombardi, the Board approved the Capital Projects Ordinance as it was
presented. All ayes. Motion carried.
Committee Reports
Aldermen Allen, Sharkey, and Spencer had nothing to report. Alderman Davis
stated that she had been sick earlier in the week and asked Mayor Pro-tem
Mosteller to present for the Forestry Committee. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller stated
that the committee did not have a quorum, so they used the meeting as a
planning session. Alderman Lombardi announced that the Beautification Committee
had elected new officers. At their last cleanup, they had twenty volunteers,
and seven of them were students. They were able to get a lot done.
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller stated that soon, the Parks and Recreation Committee
would be working to develop a new Parks and Recreation Master plan. Once they
have a plan adopted, that will open up more grant opportunities. Thursdays in
the Park starts back up on June 3, and the movie series starts July 11.
Alderman Mosteller explained that the need for a Short Term Rental Policy was
first identified over four years ago, at the 2018 Board of Aldermen’s annual
planning retreat. The need for a Short Term Rental Policy was again identified
at the 2020 retreat and then assigned to the Planning Board to consider
possible UDO updates. After the 2018 retreat, Alderman Mosteller and another
Alderman did some work on these issues and the date was shared with the current
committee. The committee will be presenting their research for discussion and
consideration at the Planning Board’s meeting next Thursday. Mayor Pro-tem
Mosteller encouraged interested parties to attend.
The streetlight committee is continuing to meet and work on suggestions for the
Board to consider.
Manager's Report   
Mr. Hargrove said that he only had a couple of items to discuss. The City is
starting to receive some of the F.E.M.A. reimbursements. Mr. Hargrove has
received information from the County regarding the sewer expansion project. The
price that was quoted was from 2018, but it has increased now. Mr. Hargrove and
the Mayor are meeting with the County soon, but he would expect probably a 20%
increase.
Mayor's Comments
Mayor Hatem suggested that everyone get a copy of Our State magazine because
Southport is a featured location. He thanked the Communications and Tourism
department for providing a copy of the article. He encouraged everyone to get
vaccinated. The Plan is to lift the state of emergency after Labor Day. Thanked
the citizens and businesses for their patience while the construction projects
continue. He and some staff just met with hospital staff to discuss ways to
avoid disruption. The Southport Lions Club recently asked the Mayor what they
can do to help the City. The Clubs' 75 th anniversary is approaching. Southport
is in a good spot financially, and there is no tax increase proposed. Mayor
Hatem thanked Randy Jones and Lisa Anderson for all they do. He also asked the
public to remember the military on Memorial Day.
Board Comments
Alderman Allen said that he would like to reflect on the last year and all that
has been accomplished since the beginning of the pandemic. A special thanks to
the Mayor for his leadership. During the last year, the City has navigated
covid, F.E.M.A. reimbursements, parks and recreation improvements, capital
improvement funds. He said that he is extremely proud of the Board, Mayor, and
all the City staff for their hard work over the last year.
Alderman Spencer wants to express his appreciation to all educators and
teachers who have stayed focused during the pandemic. He also mentioned local
barber Will Hewett, who was able to help save the life of a customer while he
was in his barbershop. He said that he was also glad to see Lisa Anderson in
the position of head nurse at the hospital because she is a local.
Aldermen Sharkey said that she was glad the Board approved the resolutions
against the two House- Bills. There are many bills in the General Assembly that
would aim to regulate or limit municipal power. She encouraged the Board to be
vocal. Alderman Sharkey also said that she was happy for David Fox, but he
would be missed. He and his wife are incredibly kind people and have been
taking care of a retired City employee for several years. She wants everyone to
be aware of his goodness.
Alderman Davis stated that she serves on a Board for the John Smith cemetery.
It is an African American cemetery in the area. They are very close to
receiving National Historical Recognition, but the process is very document-
heavy. She said that she is happy to see all of the fishermen return to the
City dock. She also wanted to add to the list of accomplishments over the last
year by mentioning that the City has made leaps and bounds for transparency.
She couldn't think of another municipality that is doing as much.
Alderman Lombardi stated that he was disappointed about the 160D changes about
streets, and he encouraged City staff to add more language to that section of
the U.D.O.
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller wanted to remind the public that the deadline to apply
for the homestead tax credit is June 1, 2021. The program is for people 65
years or older who are permanent residents of their homes and earned $31,500 or
less. The program would reduce property tax by 50%. If anyone is interested,
they can reach out to the Brunswick County Tax Department or contact Deputy
Clerk Tanya Shannon. She also said that she was excited for the dock reopening.
Closed Session
Per N.C.G.S. 143-318.11(3), the Board of Aldermen met in Closed Session to
consult with an attorney to preserve the attorney-client privilege between the
public body and the attorney . A motion was made by Alderman Allen and seconded
by Alderman Sharkey to enter into Closed Session at 7:47 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
After a motion made by Alderman Sharkey and seconded by both Alderman Allen and
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller, the Closed session was concluded at 8:04 p.m., and the
Board opened the Regular meeting. All ayes. Motion carried.
Mayor Hatem read a concerning the closed session. After meeting in closed
session with the attorney, the Board of Aldermen has agreed to pay a settlement
of $310, 000 for the lawsuit with Plantation Builders over the impact fees that
were collected. He thanked everyone for attending the meeting.
Adjournment
After a motion by Alderman Allen and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller, the
Mayor adjourned the meeting at 8:05 p.m. All ayes. Motion carried.
                     ___________________________________
                     Joseph P. Hatem, M.D., M.P.H.
________________________________         Mayor, City of Southport
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk   
MAY 26, 2021
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
223 E. BAY STREET  MAY 26, 2021
COMMUNITY BUILDING SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Joseph P. Hatem
         Mayor Pro-tem Karen Mosteller; Aldermen Lora Sharkey, Lowe Davis,
         John Allen, Tom Lombardi, Marc Spencer
STAFF PRESENT:      
Gordon Hargrove, City Manager         Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
Thomas Lloyd, Development Services Director   Randy Jones, Communication/
Tourism Director Lisa Anderson, Communications, Asst. Director   Ralph
Treadway, Battalion Fire Chief    
Adam Montgomery, Water Distribution ORC      Tom Stanley, Public Services
Director
OTHERS PRESENT: Allen Serkin, Executive Director, Cape Fear Council of
Governments
       Jean Klein, CES Administrator, Lumber River Council of Government
       Gary Pethe, State Port Pilot
A)   Call to Order – 10:10 a.m.
Mayor Hatem called the special meeting to order at 10:10 a.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Lowe Davis gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
Mayor Hatem led everyone in the Pledge of Allegiance.
Presentation
   Mayor Hatem asked Development Services Director, Thomas Lloyd, to introduce
the Council of Government's presenters. Mr. Lloyd introduced Allen Serkin,
Executive Director with the Cape Fear Council of Governments.
   In 2018, the City applied for and was awarded a $65,000 grant to complete an
Asset Inventory and Assessment grant through the Division of Water
Infrastructure and the North Carolina Department of Environmental Quality. The
Council of Governments was the project manager for the asset inventory and
mapping.
   Asset Management is the practice of managing infrastructure capital assets
to minimize the total cost of owning and operating the assets and prolong the
useful life of the assets while delivering the desired level of service. All of
the identified hydrants, mains, valves, interconnections, and specific meter
information are documented. A complete inventory is established, and all of the
assets are mapped. Each asset is assigned a unique identifier. Along with help
from City Staff, the condition of the assets is documented. A risk assessment
was completed to see what the impact would be if a component fails. As part of
the process, an application was created for the City Staff to use on their
tablets. The application allows information to be sent to the Council of
Governments more easily.
   The Council created a digital map that identifies the size and location of
water pipes and color-coded them for easy identification. In addition, a paper
atlas was created that shows the material, location, and sizes of the lines
along with street names and address points. Mr. Serkin introduced Ms. Jean
Klein with the Lumber River Council of Governments.
   Ms. Klein stated that there are two sources of water-ground or surface. A
“purchase water only” system is what the City of Southport uses. This means
that the water supply, including storage capacity, is secured from Brunswick
County. Drinking water assets are actively managed through careful maintenance,
repair, and replacement. Brunswick County is adding a filtration system on NC
211 Hwy. The City’s original water system that was installed in approximately
1915 was made of cast iron. Between 1920-1969, many small projects were made
off of the original system. Between 1970-1979, several large projects were
initiated by the City to extend water along the major corridors. Since 1980,
most water infrastructure work has been done for subdivisions.
   The most problematic line is small diameter cast iron lines that are close
to the surface. They are now corroded and subject to breaking. Southport has a
significant inventory of undersized lines. The current recommendation is not to
use pipes that are smaller than 6 inches in diameter. Of the 257 valves that
were inventoried, the poorest valves are due to age. Some of them were
installed before the 1940s; the current life expectancy is usually thirty-five
years. There are 224 hydrants inventoried, and 54% are in average condition.
Hydrants generally last between 45-60 years. Ms. Klein commended the City for
the investment in water meters. 88% of the City’s meters are residential, 11%
are commercial, and 1% are City-owned. The City's system is more accurate and
helps to reduce non-revenue water in the system through leak detection sensors.
   Risk analysis is comparing the likelihood of failure versus the consequence
of failure. There are 55,847 linear feet of line that is the weakest point of
vulnerability. Line breaks in this area would result in significant reportable
violations. Out of 82 assets, 39 are identified as high risk because of age.
   A Water System Capital Improvement Plan includes scheduling, financing, and
implementing future capital projects. It allows City decision-makers to think
over a large, multi-year period and can assist in developing an asset
improvement strategy where costs can spread over ten years.
   When water and sewer rates are not adjusted annually, the system absorbs all
of the costs to purchase and distribute water. It is best to increase rates
gently, about 2% a year. It is responsible to raise rates a little each year to
pay for improvements and infrastructure. Currently, the water fund appears to
be operating at a break-even level or slightly better. Once capital projects
are planned, there will be loans and debt service that the City will have to
assume.
Ms. Klein made the following recommendations:
The City should plan to replace the cast iron lines in the system, including
valve changeouts.
While water loss is not a significant problem, the City has numerous failing
lines that would cause water loss.
Continue the valve exercise program to ensure that valves are inspected and
assessed for function regularly.
Continue paying attention to water use because the City is a purchase-water-
only system and track water allocation.
An annual assessment of water rates should be monitored to ensure the revenues
are sufficient to cover operation, maintenance, existing and future debt
service.
Ms. Klein then expressed her gratitude to Tom Stanley and Adam Montgomery for
their help in this process. She reiterated that it is important to keep moving
forward with repairs and improvements.
Alderman Davis asked about whether the streets would have to be dug up again
and how long it would take to do the work to replace those weak lines. Tom
Stanley stated that it would depend on the project, but the first projects he
would recommend are Howe Street and East/West Moore Street. Alderman Spencer
said that most of the lines are located on the sides of the roads, and Tom
Stanley said that was mostly accurate. But some lines cross or zigzag under
roads. He also said that although the water repairs/improvements project seems
scary, the City still has a very good system. Ms. Klein remarked that this City
is old and historical, and we also have an old, historical utility system. She
said that the City has a lot of space to increase our rates because we are
towards the bottom of the range compared to other municipalities our size. Our
rates should be based solely on what the City’s needs are. The rate structure
should be based on our base rate that includes operating costs and a volumetric
rate. The volumetric rate funds that are collected are funding that can go into
a capital reserve fund.
One recommendation by Ms. Klein is to change the number of gallons included in
the base rate but leave the same rate. There would be more steps in the rate
structure. She suggested that the City look at consumption groupings and
averages. That is one way to protect vulnerable populations, too. Alderman
Davis asked if contaminants were anywhere else in the system, and Alderman
Spencer asked about contamination from asbestos concrete lines. Adam Montgomery
stated that he had just tested some asbestos lines, and there was no
contamination in the water sample. PVC piping has a 100-year life expectancy.
Mayor Hatem said that anytime he learns something new, he considers it a good
meeting. He summarized what was learned by saying that Tom Stanley is a good
man; cast-iron belongs on the stove, water rates should not be reduced, the
roads might be disheveled again at some point, but now the City has some ideas
about the future. Mayor Hatem thanked the Board, Thomas Lloyd, Adam Montgomery,
Tom Stanley, Gordon Hargrove, Allen Serkin, and Jean Klein for their hard work.
A Resolution to adopt the plan will be ready for consideration at the June
meeting.
After a motion made by Alderman John Allen and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Karen
Mosteller, the Mayor adjourned the meeting at 11:40 a.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
                     ____________________________________
                     Joseph P. Hatem, M.D., M.P.H.
                     Mayor, City of Southport
____________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
JUNE 10, 2021
Regular Meeting Minutes
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  Regular Meeting Minutes
223 E. BAY STREET  June 10th, 2021; 6:00 p.m.
COMMUNITY BUILDING SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
Present:    Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor Pro Tem Karen Mosteller, Aldermen
Thomas Lombardi, Lora Sharkey, Lowe Davis, Marc Spencer, and John Allen.
Staff Present:   Gordon Hargrove, City Manager
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
   Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
   Thomas Lloyd, Developmental Services Director
   Heather Hemphill, Parks and Recreation Director
   Tom Stanley, Assistant Public Services Director
   Kate Marshall, Animal Control/Code Enforcement
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   Randy Jones, Communications/Tourism Director
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
Others Present: Gary Pethe, with the State Port Pilot, Tish Hatem, Richard Alt,
Jason Robbins, Devon Varnam, with the Southport Baptist Church, and Landon
Weaver, Rob Ballard, and Mike Nichols with the Osprey Landing Project. There
were a few other interested citizens in the audience.
Meetings are now open to the public. Full audio/video is available on the
City's website or can be requested from the City Clerk's office.
Call to order by Mayor Joseph P. Hatem at 6:00 p.m. and welcomed everyone to
the meeting.
Mayor Hatem introduced Mr. Devin Varnam, Reverend at the Southport Baptist
Church. Mr. Varnum gave the invocation.
Everyone joined Mayor Hatem in reciting the Pledge of Allegiance.
Public Comment: None
Approval of Agenda
After a motion made by Alderman Lombardi and seconded by Alderman Sharkey, the
Board approved the plan with one change: the addition of the contract with
Hickman Utilities. All ayes. Motion carried.
Mayor Joseph P. Hatem read the ethics statement.
Mayor Hatem read through the list of items on the Consent Agenda.
Approval of Consent Agenda
Approval of May 13th, 2021 Board of Aldermen Regular Meeting Minutes
Approval of May 13th, 2021 Board of Aldermen Closed Session Minutes
Approval of May 26th, 2021 Board of Aldermen Special Meeting
Budget Transfers FY2021 Year-End
Temporary Debris Easement Agreement
America Rescue Program Funding Acceptance
Settlement for Impact Fees
A motion was made by Alderman Allen and seconded by Alderman Sharkey to approve
the consent agenda. All ayes. Motion carried.
Special Recognition: Mayor Hatem approached the podium. June 19 th is a day
celebrated when news of the Emancipation Proclamation reached African Americans
in the South and the Southwestern United States. In addition, Juneteenth
commemorates African American freedom, equality, and opportunity. Mayor Hatem
encouraged everyone to become more aware of the significance of this
celebration in African American history and the heritage of our nation and
city.
Agenda
Mayor Hatem opened the public hearing at 6:09 p.m. to discuss the proposed FY
2021-2022 Budget. Alderman Allen stated that he felt like the proposed budget
was great. There is no tax increase proposed, and there are capital projects
that will be funded. There were no other comments. The Public Hearing was
closed at 6:11 p.m. Gordon Hargrove commended Melanie Trexler for her hard work
and thanked the Board for narrowing down the priorities for the upcoming year.
After a motion made by Alderman Lowe Davis and seconded by Mayor Pro tem Karen
Mosteller, the Board adopted the FY 2021-2022 Budget and Budget ordinance as
presented. All ayes. Motion carried .
The Mayor opened the public hearing at 6:13 p.m. to discuss the rezoning
request for four parcels of land on North Caswell. Development Services
Director, Thomas Lloyd, was asked to come forward to explain the request. Mr.
Lloyd stated that at the January 14th, 2021 meeting, he was asked to begin the
process of rezoning (9) parcels from MF (multi-family) and BD (business
district) to R-10 (Residential 10,000 square feet). Mr. Lloyd has been able to
contact four of the property owners on Board, so this hearing is for Phase 1.
The Planning Board has already reviewed the request and has made a favorable
recommendation to the Board. The public hearing was closed at 6:18 p.m. After a
motion made by Alderman Sharkey and seconded by Aldermen Spencer, the Board
approved the Land Use Consistency Statement and map amendment as presented. All
ayes. Motion carried.
At the Special Called Meeting on May 26th, 2021, the Board of Aldermen listened
to a Cape Fear Council of Government presentation. Thomas Lloyd explained that
the presentation was part of a grant that the City received in 2018. Mr. Lloyd
went over the main recommendations, as provided by Allen Serkin and Jean Klein.
Their recommendations are: 1.) The City should plan to replace the cast iron
lines in the system, including valve changeouts and undersized lines beyond
their useful life period; 2.) While water loss is not a significant problem,
the City has numerous lines that could cause water loss in the future. The City
should continue to monitor these through its metering system; 3.) Continue the
valve exercise program to ensure that valves are inspected and assessed for
function regularly; 4.) Continue paying attention to water use because the City
is a purchase-water-only system and track water allocation; 5.) An annual
assessment of water rates should be monitored to ensure the revenues are
sufficient to cover operation, maintenance, existing and future debt service.
At this point, all the Board is required to do is accept and adopt the
assessment results. After a motion made by Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller and seconded
by Aldermen Tom Lombardi, the Board approved the Resolution, which adopted the
Water Asset Inventory and Asset project results as presented. All ayes. Motion
carried.  
Gordon Hargrove explained that the water allocation agreement with Brunswick
County has two parts: the wholesale bulk water service agreement and additional
capacity. The City is currently seeking 115,000 gallons of capacity now, and in
approximately 18-24 months, the City will have the option to purchase another
115,000 gallons. These arrangements were approved at an earlier Board of
Aldermen meeting. Mr. Hargrove would like the Board to approve the agreement
and authorize the Mayor to sign the agreement. Alderman Sharkey asked if
interest was being applied, and Mr. Hargrove stated that there was interest,
but he was unaware of the percentage. After a motion made by Alderman Lombardi
and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller, the Board approved the contract with
Brunswick County and authorized Mayor Hatem to sign the agreement. All ayes.
Motion carried. Alderman Allen suggested that the rate committee meet to
recommend how much is included in the base rate and the rate steps. Other
municipalities' rates are increasing to help finance the osmosis filtration
system that the County is building.
The Mayor asked Thomas Lloyd to explain the request for annexation at 1147 S.
Caswell Avenue. The request was made by Terry and Sue Finch, the new owners of
the property. The annexation is contiguous, and the property does not need to
be rezoned. Annexation is a requirement for tapping onto City utilities. After
a motion made by Alderman Sharkey and seconded by Alderman Davis, the Board
accepted the petition for annexation, requested that the Clerk investigate the
sufficiency of the request, accepted the Certificate of Sufficiency, and
approved a Resolution setting the Public Hearing for the next meeting on July
8th, 2021. All ayes. Motion carried.
Mayor Hatem asked Ms. Trexler to approach the podium. She explained that Scott
Rogers left his position with the City, and he will be missed. But he spent the
last couple of weeks training Teresa Jones. As a result, she will be able to
sign checks and do Accounts Payable. In addition, Ms. Trexler would like the
Board to consider her the Tax Collector for the City and authorize her to serve
in the role of Deputy Finance Officer if needed. Aldermen Spencer, Sharkey, and
Davis all commended the selection of Teresa for serving in this capacity. After
a motion made by Mayor Pro tem Mosteller and seconded by Alderman Sharkey, the
Board appointed Teresa as the City's Tax Collector. In addition, it authorized
her to serve as Deputy Finance Director, as needed. All ayes. Motion carried.
Thomas Lloyd approached the podium again to review the preliminary plat for
Osprey Landing. When the developers initially submitted, the Board was under a
different Board of Aldermen and Mayor. The PUD was approved in 2020. Rights are
vested for seven years. The plan is the same as it was in 2020. There are 196
lots/homes proposed for 68 acres off of Robert Ruark Drive. There are
approximately 10.2 acres of open space proposed. The project has been reviewed
by the NCDOT and received state stormwater approval for Development. Lowe Davis
asked a few questions about the process and, specifically, the traffic that
would be generated in that area. She understood that the plat would have to be
approved, but the objection is that it is an administrative approval. She
calculated the amount of time that people would be waiting to pull out of the
subdivision, approximately three days in a year, and thought it was
unreasonable. After a motion made by Alderman Spencer and seconded by Alderman
Allen, the preliminary plat was approved for Osprey Landing. Aldermen Spencer,
Allen, Sharkey, Lombardi, and Mayor Pro tem Mosteller voted in favor of
approval; Alderman Davis voted nay. Motion carried.  
Committee Reports
Aldermen Allen, Sharkey, and Spencer had nothing to report. Alderman Davis
reported that the Forestry Committee is embracing watering the trees that were
planted in January. They would love to have some volunteers help with watering
duties. During the drought, the trees need to be watered once or twice a week.
The tree at the old City Hall looked very bad, but the mulch has been changed
out, and it is doing much better now. Alderman Spencer asked if there were any
plans to put a tree back at the Whittler's Bench. Alderman Davis stated that
the Beautification Committee had taken over the Whittler's Bench. Alderman
Lombardi reported that the Beautification Committee met the previous Saturday
at the waterfront and Community Building. The Committee is working to repair
and paint all of the existing trash can enclosures. The lifeboat that was
restored by Nick Kern and Tom Lombardi is complete and at the Beautification
Committee’s next meeting on June 21, 2021 at 5:00 p.m., the lifeboat will be
dedicated to Mr. Kern. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller stated that the improvements at
Taylor Field are beginning now that the site plan is finalized. The contractors
are in the process of obtaining permits. The improvements are scheduled for
completion by October 2021. Summer is finally here, and so is the 2021 Summer
Concert Series on Thursday evenings at 6 p.m. at Franklin Square. The free
concerts are sponsored by the Parks and Recreation Department, Communications
and Tourism department, and DSI. Summer movies on the Garrison lawn are
beginning, too. Please bring a chair or a blanket and enjoy the films. Popcorn
will be provided. Calendar cards for the free live music and movies are
available. As a reminder, the Planning Board will meet at its regularly
scheduled time, next Thursday at 6:00 p.m., here in the Community Building. In
addition to other agenda items, the Planning Board will be discussing a
potential Short Term Rental ordinance. Citizen input is important, so please
plan to attend.
The streetlight committee is continuing to meet and hopefully, bring policy
updates to the Board of Aldermen soon. There will be opportunities for public
comment before any new policies are adopted. In the meantime, citizens may
reach out to Alderman Davis, Sharkey, or Mayor Pro tem Mosteller if they have
questions.
Manager's Report   
Mr. Hargrove said that he only had one item of interest this evening. Tasha
Gaddy is the new Code Enforcement officer for the City. The City has been
receiving a lot of complaints about parking in the right of ways. This kind of
parking often impedes vision. We are starting to address this issue. Commercial
parking in residential areas has to stop because it takes away from our
character.
Mayor's Comments
Mayor Hatem reported that the City received a certificate of appreciation for
the donation to the elementary school at the Board of Education meeting. There
was an accident at the Southport Ferry terminal. All emergency departments
responded, and AirLink was called in to transport the injured man to the trauma
center. He did survive. The sewer improvements along Howe Street are
progressing well. When it comes time, additional signage will be installed to
identify the entrance to the hospital. It seems that the economy in Southport
is recovering nicely, and the Yacht Basin is busy! The emergency order has been
lifted, and things are getting back to normal. The budget has been approved.
The Mayor thanked everyone for their exceptional efforts. Unfortunately, the
cost to build or buy here in Southport has increased. The Mayor congratulated
Teresa Jones on her new role and said that he was glad to have Tasha Gaddy on
Board. There have been some inquiries into the cemeteries and maintenance. The
Mayor stated that the cemeteries would continue to be a priority in maintaining
and preserving our heritage. He said that the Franklin Square Park market is
excellent and very festive. There will be a Juneteenth ceremony and the John
Smith Cemetery. Mayor Hatem also wished everyone a very Happy Father's Day.
There were no other staff reports.
Board Comments
Alderman Spencer mentioned that Buddy Rudd, founder, and owner of Margaret
Rudd, recently passed away. He was a great man-gentile, humble, and very
positive. He worked hard to create a strong family business, and his presence
will be missed. Alderman Spencer said he was looking forward to receiving the
funding to stabilize the shoreline.
Alderman Sharkey said that she had been thinking a lot lately that the City is
not doing enough to promote commercial growth as a whole. Maybe the City can
increase marketing and help promote properties sitting for a long time and
speak to interested parties. Then, if the City can attract more businesses, the
cost of infrastructure can be shared more evenly between commercial and
residential.
Alderman Davis mentioned that the John Smith Cemetery foundation is holding a
presentation on June 19 th to provide information about who is buried at the
cemetery. There is a lot of history there, including some slave graves. The
historical jail is now open, and it is a fantastic place to take children. She
would like to recommend to the Board that the noise ordinances be strengthened
and are enforced. She gets many complaints about music during the week from
people that live only five blocks away.
Alderman Lombardi stated that he was under the impression that there would not
be a tree planted or replacement at the Whittler's Bench because the wind and
salt make it hard to keep alive. However, the Christmas tree will be anchored
down during the holiday season.
Mayor Pro tem Mosteller stated that our community has a lot to be thankful for
as we celebrate Independence Day. She thanked Oak Island for working with the
Fourth of July Committee to overcome challenges by providing bigger spaces for
this year's activities. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller wished everyone a safe and
meaningful 4 th of July holiday.
Mayor Pro tem Mosteller also shared a recent experience when she addressed a
group of military spouses. Representing the organization "Life Transition for
Me," a group of about 30 women, each a member of the armed services or the
spouse of a member, spent the day in Southport. Before they began to tour the
Maritime Museum and the Garrison House Museum, Ms. Mosteller had the great
honor to welcome them to our city. She explained that during the tours, they
would see much of Southport's history. Life on the water and life in our
community. And perhaps one of the most defining characteristics of our City's
history and an important part of our community today is the spirit of
volunteerism.
On the small stage of our little community of 3700 people, we can live much
larger because our citizens are willing to volunteer their time and talents to
improve the community they live in and our quality of life. These women were
very familiar with the power of volunteerism. But, on the larger stage, their
individual spirit of volunteerism in service of our country has collectively
helped allow us to live in this free and democratic society. This society
allows us to have our Southport. So, she humbly offered thanks to them from our
community. And let them know we were glad they were here.
Closed Session
Per N.C.G.S. 143-318.11(6), the Board of Aldermen met in Closed Session to
consider the qualifications, competence, performance, character, fitness,
conditions of appointment, or conditions of initial employment of an individual
public officer or employee or prospective public officer or employee .  Final
action making an appointment or discharge or removal by a public body having
final authority for the appointment or discharge or removal shall be taken in
an open meeting.  A motion was made by Alderman Allen and seconded by Alderman
Sharkey to enter into Closed Session at 7:25 p.m. All ayes. Motion carried.
After a motion made by Alderman Lombardi and seconded by both Alderman Allen
and Alderman Davis, the Closed session was concluded at 8:46 p.m., and the
Board opened the Regular meeting. All ayes. Motion carried.
Mayor Hatem summarized that the Board had gone into Closed Session to complete
the performance appraisal for City Manager, Gordon Hargrove and the 90- day
appraisal for the City Clerk, Dorothy Dutton. After a motion made by Alderman
Allen and seconded my Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller, the Board agreed to extrend the
Manager’s contract for three more years and to give him a 5% pay increase. All
ayes. Motion carried .
Mayor Hatem stated that the Clerk’s performance was evaluated because it is the
end of the 90-day probationary period is over. After a motion by Alderman
Sharkey and seconded by Alderman Lombardi, the Board approved the 5% pay
increase for the City Clerk. All ayes. Motion carried.  
Adjourn
Mayor Hatem thanked everyone for their hard work. After a motion made by
Alderman Allen and seconded by Alderman Lombardi, the Mayor adjourned the
meeting at 8:48 p.m. All ayes. Motion carried.
___________________________________
Joseph P. Hatem, M.D., M.P.H.
_____________________________________   Mayor, City of Southport
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk   
JUNE 28, 2021
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
223 E. BAY STREET  JUNE 28, 2021 at 4:30 p.m.
COMMUNITY BUILDING SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Joseph P. Hatem
         Mayor Pro-tem Karen Mosteller; Aldermen Lora Sharkey, Lowe Davis,
         John Allen, and Tom Lombardi
STAFF PRESENT:      
Gordon Hargrove, City Manager         Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
Lisa Anderson, Communications, Asst. Director   Melanie Trexler, Finance
Director      
Tom Stanley, Public Services Director
OTHERS PRESENT: Gary Pethe, from the State Port Pilot, Richard Alt
A)   Call to Order
Mayor Hatem called the special meeting to order at 4:35 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Lowe Davis gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
Mayor Hatem led everyone in the Pledge of Allegiance.
.D)   Approval of Agenda-
After a motion made by Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller and seconded by Alderman
Lombardi, the agenda was approved as it was presented.
Business
Mayor Hatem stated that the first budget amendment (#11) was to pay Brunswick
Electric for the work that was done installing the electrical underground on NC
211 Hwy. Melanie Trexler explained that this amendment was essentially a
formality because NCDOT has already agreed to pay the difference between the
estimate and the actual cost. The difference in cost was mainly due to a larger
bore that was unexpected. After a motion made by Alderman Allen and seconded by
Alderman Sharkey, the Board approved Budget #11.  All ayes. Motion carried.
Mayor Hatem announced that Budget Amendment #12 was for the Howe Street sewer
project. He asked Tom Stanley to explain the need for additional funding. Tom
Stanley, the Public Services Director, said that basically, there was an
underestimation of materials that would be needed to pave the road. Often, the
ditches were wider than anticipated, and there had been a couple of
interference manholes that required more work. The engineer for the project was
very short in his estimation. The new estimate is approximately 150% of the
original estimate. Tom Stanley said they are asking the Board for an additional
$250,000 to cover the difference in paving costs and the interference manholes.
Alderman Allen asked and it was confirmed that the additional funds would come
from the water/sewer fund balance. Alderman Allen also asked if Tom Stanley
thought that this would be the last unforeseen issue that would arise. Tom
Stanley said that he thought it would be the last issue with the project
planning, but that the underground is unknown. There might be other
interference manholes. He is particularly concerned about the area where the
hospital is located. He also knows that there is a manhole that was filled with
dirt. Alderman Davis asked if there was any updates on the date of completion
for the project. Tom Stanley said that he would love to say that it would be
finished July 2021, but it would more than likely be August 2021. After a
motion made by Alderman Allen and seconded by Alderman Sharkey, the Board
approved Budget Amendment #12, for the Howe Street Sewer project. All ayes.
Motion carried.  
Mayor Hatem applauded Tom Stanley, his department and the City Manager, Gordon
Hargrove, for being so resilient during this project and moving forward.
E.)     After a motion made by Alderman Lombardi and seconded by Alderman
Allen, the Mayor adjourned the meeting at 4:51 p.m. All ayes. Motion carried.
                     ____________________________________
                     Joseph P. Hatem, M.D., M.P.H.
                     Mayor, City of Southport
____________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
JULY 8, 2021
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING JULY 8, 2021 at 6:00 p.m.
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
Present: 
Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor Pro Tem Karen Mosteller, Aldermen Thomas Lombardi,
Lora Sharkey, Lowe Davis, Marc Spencer, and John Allen.
Staff Present:
   Gordon Hargrove, City Manager
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
   Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
   Thomas Lloyd, Developmental Services Director
   Heather Hemphill, Parks and Recreation Director
   Tom Stanley, Public Services Director
   Kate Marshall, Animal Control/Code Enforcement
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   Ralph Treadway, EMS Battalion Chief
   Randy Jones, Communications/Tourism Director
Others Present:
Gary Pethe, with the State Port Pilot, Tish Hatem, Richard Alt, Jason Robbins,
WECT News staff, and many other interested citizens in attendance.
Meetings are now open to the public. Full audio/video is available on the
City's website or can be requested from the City Clerk's office.
A.)   Call to order
by Mayor Joseph P. Hatem at 6:02 p.m. and welcomed everyone to the meeting.
Mayor Hatem remarked about the 4 th of July festivities and that he was
grateful Tropical Storm Elsa didn’t cause any severe damage in Southport.
B.)   Invocation
Mayor Hatem announced that Alderman/Pastor Lowe Davis would be giving the
invocation.
C.)   Pledge of Allegiance
Everyone joined Mayor Hatem in reciting the Pledge of Allegiance.
D.)   Public Comment:
Ms. Dutton stated that only two individuals had signed up for public comment.
The first was Mary Friend, who resides at 306 Herring Drive. Ms. Friend
reported that her home had been skipped a few times for recycling collection.
She called and came into the City Hall to report the situation, and finally, it
was collected a week later. In addition, she expressed her displeasure in
having to pay the base rate for water without ever having used that many
gallons. She suggested to the Board that the base rate be applied more
equitably.
The second speaker was Scott Crook, who resides at 118 Park Avenue. He
addressed the Board regarding speeding on Park Avenue. He said that people are
using Park Avenue as a cut-through road and that this is his third appearance
before the Board in three years. He has met with Alderman Mosteller and Police
Chief Coring on site. There are senior citizens on that road that are afraid to
walk because of people speeding. He pleaded with the Board to take action to
decide to address it or not. He asked for speed tables or a 24-hour device to
be placed in the area. The Mayor thanked Mr. Crook for attending the meeting
and speaking to the Board again about his concerns.
E.)   Approval of Agenda: 
The Mayor recommended moving the Short-Term Rentals public hearing to the first
item of business. Alderman Sharkey said that she wanted to add an item to the
agenda. She would like the Board to consider reinstating the Alderman of the
Month program. The Mayor stated that the Board would not be adding anything to
the agenda so late unless it is an emergency. Alderman Sharkey said that the
board has the right to add items to the agenda at the meetings. Aldermen
Mosteller and Davis agreed with the Mayor. A suggestion was made to add it to
the next agenda. Mayor Hatem concluded that the Alderman of the Month program
would be discussed at the next meeting. After a motion by Alderman Davis and
seconded by Alderman Lombardi, the Board approved the agenda as presented.
Aldermen Davis, Mosteller, Lombardi, and Allen all voted yes. Aldermen Sharkey
and Spencer voted against the motion. Majority ruled.
Mayor Joseph P. Hatem read the ethics statement.
Mayor Hatem read through the list of items on the Consent Agenda.
F.)   Approval of Consent Agenda
   1.   Minutes Regular Board of Aldermen Meeting June 10, 2021
   2.   Minutes Closed Session Board of Aldermen Meeting June 10, 2021
   3.   Minutes Special Board of Aldermen Meeting June 28, 2021
   4.   Amendment to Chapter 3: Animal Welfare
   5.   Disaster Recovery Services Agreements:
      a.   Reso. for Primary Provider for both Vegetative Debris Collection &
Tree/Limb Removal
      b.   Reso. for Secondary Provider for both Vegetative Debris Collection &
Tree/Limb Removal
   6.   GFL Contract Extension
   7.   Oceanside Holdings LLC: Annexation Request (setting the public hearing)
A motion was made by Alderman Sharkey and seconded by Alderman Davis to approve
the consent agenda. All ayes. Motion carried.
G.)   Special Recognition:
Mayor Hatem approached the podium. He also asked Ms. Heather Hemphill to come
forward. Mayor Hatem read the proclamation in recognition of July being
National Parks and Recreation Month. The Mayor presented Ms. Hemphill with the
proclamation.
H.)   Agenda
   1.
   Mayor Hatem opened the public hearing at 6:28 p.m. to discuss the proposed
Short-Term Rental Ordinance. Mayor Hatem thanked the Planning Board and City
staff for their diligence. He said that it is crucial to protect our
neighborhoods and quaintness. The Mayor called on Thomas Lloyd to start the
dialogue. Mr. Lloyd stated that STR’s would be allowed, but only in certain
zoning districts. Existing short-term rentals in residential zoning districts
would be allowed to continue as lawful non-conforming uses, as long as they
obtained a permit within (60) days. If the use ceases for at least (180)
consecutive days, then it will not be allowed to resume its short-term rental
status. Several use standards are being applied: an emergency contact or
responsible party on-site or within (20) miles; the property owner must carry
at least $1 million in liability insurance; three violations of the ordinance
within one year will prevent the conforming short-term rental for operating for
a year; no storage of goods, no excessive outdoor lighting, signage, no
additional parking requirements, and no large gatherings or events can take
place at the dwelling. In addition, the dwellings are subject to the City’s
noise and other nuisance standards. An annual zoning permit shall be issued for
homestays and short-term rentals. The permits are valid from January-December.
 Alderman Lombardi asked how much the zoning permit fee would be and who would
be responsible for enforcing the ordinance? Thomas Lloyd said that the permit
would be the typical $100 zoning permit fee. He is already working on creating
a process using the existing permitting software. The Mayor opened the meeting
up to the public.
With the Business Alliance for a Sound Economy, Tyler Newman expressed concerns
about adopting a short-term rental ordinance. He asked the Board to consider a
few points: 1. There is no silver-bullet, once-size-fits-all ordinance, and
there are often staffing issues regarding enforcement; 2. Other ordinances
address the concerns that are raised-parking, trash, noise, and other
nuisances; 3. There is a financial need for short-term rentals in this day and
age. He urged the Board not to approve the amendment. 
Becky Felton, a citizen that resides at 230 N. Caswell Avenue, said that she
and her husband looked into buying the former Catholic church years ago. Other
dwellings surrounded it, and she never considered short-term rentals would
surround them. Neighbors have already moved out of the area because of the
number of short-term rentals in the area. She said that we do not need to
encourage more short-term rentals into the area.
John Beroset, a citizen who resides at 118 N. Atlantic Avenue, lives on a
portion of one of the original platted lots from 1792. He and his wife
originally moved to Brunswick County in 1994. They sold their home in St. James
and found a long-term rental house on Atlantic Avenue two years ago. Now they
love their neighborhood and home. They would not consider moving to an area
where there are so many short-term rentals. They did not want to live in a
beach community. He is concerned that the nature of Southport will be lost. He
said that he is not opposed to change, but it should be balanced with the
consideration of long-term effects and regulated accordingly.
Ginger Harper, who resides at 105 E. Bay Street, addressed the Board next. She
said that she has seen people come together more than ever before over the last
few years, especially through hurricanes, emotional upheaval, and the pandemic.
She commended the Board for their willingness to approach challenging issues.
She stated that unless you live in Southport, most people are unaware of the
general concerns in the community. These concerns include rambunctious
visitors, fighting, smoking marijuana, loud noises, and partying. She fully
supports the proposed ordinance. The citizens/residents will not be able to
keep their property values up if short-term rentals are allowed into the
community. The neighborhoods should continue to be filled with neighbors.
Melissa Hinnant, who resides at 303 E. 8 th Street, said she has lived here for
eight years. She said that there is more technology now. She used her home as
an Air BnB when she and her family were in a financial bind. She said that as
far as she could research, the crime increases have not been verified. She
feels like Southport can benefit from having short-term rentals because it
helps people financially take care of their families. She was concerned that
the City would be sued because of the amendment.
Casey Silar, who resides at 116 Stewart Avenue, stated that she used an
accessory dwelling in her backyard as a short-term rental when she lost her
job. She and her associates support their being standards and an ordinance, but
it needs to be reasonable. She feels that the sixty-day permit requirement and
the nonconforming-use clause are not reasonable. She asked the Board to
consider several factors: 1. COVID_19 prevented the ability of the public to
participate in the process of developing the ordinance; 2. Short-term rentals
were made into a scapegoat for other issues that are going on in Southport; 3.
Residents spoke in the public comment, but many people don’t realize there are
short-term rentals around them; 4. How does the City plan on enforcing the
standards?; and 5. Even the Planning Board did not vote unanimously for the
amendment. She would ultimately like for the Board of Aldermen to take more
time to discuss the issues.
Melaney Marshall Robbins read a statement to the Board that requested the Board
to discuss with companies like hers so the Board could understand both sides of
the issue truly. She requested that the Board take it back to the committee for
more discussion and include others in the decision and development.
Hugh Fosbury resides at 120 W. Moore Street and has lived in Southport for
eight years. He and his wife own a Bed and Breakfast, reside in town, and
manage a short-term rental company. He would like for the Board to consider
some questions before deciding. He wants to know how many short-term rentals
are being operated in town. Which zoning districts are the current short-term
rentals located? How will complaints be handled? And how many total homes do we
have in the City compared with the number of short-term rentals-what is the
percentage? Mr. Fosbury said that he does understand the need to prevent big
problems.
Rebecca Kelly, who resides at 5971 Dutchman Creek, stated that she grew up in
Southport and now lives here and is a business owner. She is the broker for a
realty office and operates the River Oaks Inn. Ms. Kelly had several questions/
comments that she asked the Board to consider. She said that a realtor cannot
guarantee that the zoning of a property will remain the same as when it was
purchased. So many people who are in favor of the amendment are complaining
that crime levels are increasing. Has this been verified? Have there been more
calls to the police department? All sorts of people in the City leave trash and
park illegally. How can you tell if it is a renter of a short-term rental
property, a resident, or a day visitor? The River Oaks Inn is not always fully
occupied, depending on the season. If it is vacant for (180) days, does it lose
the ability to be used as a rental property? Ms. Kelly said that the motion had
to be put before the Planning Board four times before someone moved on the
motion. She closed by saying that we are all a part of Southport. We need to
guide and support Southport towards appropriate growth. Several derelict
properties have been purchased and renovated and used as short-term rentals.
They have now become contributing properties with a higher property value.
Beth Hammonds resides at 506 W. Owens Drive. She said that there need to be
some standards for short-term rentals. She and her husband purchased a property
and renovated it. It is now a long-term rental. They are trying to save
cottages instead of tearing them down. The owners should have the right to
decide how to use their properties. The ordinance could be returned to the
committee and made fairer for everyone. She and her husband are not from here,
but they appreciate the history and charm of the area. They coexist well with
short-term rental properties and have not had any issues with short-term
renters. She asked the Board again to send it back to the committee to make it
less restrictive.
Rich Alt, who resides at 6165 Cottage Creek Road, had two questions for Mr.
Lloyd. He asked Mr. Lloyd to explain and identify what areas were zoned PUD.
And he also wanted to know if this document would supersede any Homeowner
Association policies. Mr. Lloyd said that an example of a PUD was Indigo or
Harper Lakes. And he stated that HOA restrictions were the prevailing rules for
any property.
Tracy Beaulieu was the final speaker. She resides at 206 W. Nash Street. She
stated that her neighborhood has a real problem with short-term rentals. People
are walking around using drugs, rummaging in people’s vehicles, and carrying
weapons. She said that she is hesitant to call the police because the people
might retaliate. She stated that the economy is thriving in Southport already.
If the area becomes unsavory because of all the transients using short-term
rentals, tourists will stop visiting. Mr. Beaulieu believes that the proposed
ordinance is fair.
Ms. Dutton, the City Clerk, read several letters and statements sent ahead of
the meeting from people who could not attend. Mayor Hatem closed the public
hearing at 7:57 p.m. He said that he appreciates everyone’s patience.
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller thanked everyone for attending. She gave the following
statement in support of the proposed ordinance:
“There are cautionary tales from communities across the country that have been
affected by the relatively new internet-based Airbnb business model that began
in 2008. This business model has grown into a multi-billion dollar lodging
industry. Business changes at a much faster pace than a municipality.
To respond to the question that some have asked…Why does Southport need these
regulations and what are the policy objectives?
Our community’s core values can be found in the Southport CAMA Core Land Use
Plan. The CAMA Land Use Plan is the city’s strategic long range planning
document. Every land use decision and zoning change we make, must be supported
by this comprehensive plan.
Within the plan, on page 9, the city’s vision and core values are identified.
The City Planner, Mr. Lloyd included this in the statement of consistency to
support the proposed regulations. And it reads, “Southport desires to have an
affordable quality of life while maintaining its quiet residential atmosphere
and protecting the city’s historic assets…” and goes on to say, specifically,
Southport will endeavor to accomplish the following: 2 of the 5 core values
speak directly to the reasons for the proposed Short Term Rental regulations. •
Preserve the city’s historic character. • Preserve the city’s residential
areas.
On page 14, the plan recognizes that “Southport appears more like inland
Brunswick communities such as Shallotte or Calabash than a beach community like
Oak Island or Ocean Isle Beach…”. Again this speaks to our historic and
residential character as a small town not a beach rental community. And goes on
to acknowledge that Southport’s economy benefits from region-wide tourist
populations, and day-trippers from the surrounding communities.
Finally, summarized on page 149 are the nine general principles used to develop
the Land Use Plan. Four of the nine principles support the short term rental
regulations recommended by the Planning Board.
“The City of Southport Land Use Plan was drafted with consideration given to
the following:”
• “Southport’s Vision and Core Values”
• “Preservation of existing urban form” (And the character of Southport’s
historic residential neighborhoods is an important part of our urban form)
• “Limiting potential land use conflicts” (conflicts that could change our
character) and
• “Preservation of existing residential neighborhoods”
Clearly, Southport’s long range comprehensive plan directs us to preserve that
which makes Southport this unique small town community here at the mouth of the
Cape Fear.
Because of our location, here at the water’s edge, we are particularly
vulnerable to the changes that would make us become a resort town rather than a
community of neighbors.
I have an MLS sheet for a home in our old town area that Zillow shows as
recently sold. The first line in the realtor’s write up about the house. And I
quote, “TURN KEY Airbnb opportunity in the heart of Southport!”
Southport’s old town is an extremely small, densely populated residential area,
and the impact of land uses like whole house transient lodging dilutes the
residential character of the neighborhood.
The proposed Homestay accessory use allows permanent residents to generate
income by renting rooms while remaining a member of the neighborhood. Like the
Bed and Breakfast rules that require a full-time resident to be present.
The ordinance provides regulations that allow established legally operating
non-conforming Short Term Vacation Rentals in residentially zoned area to
continue to operate.
Southport’s successful tourism industry is not dependent on having Short Term
Vacation Rentals within the city’s residential neighborhoods. Southport is
surrounded by beach rental communities that provide Short Term Vacation
Rentals.
The quality of life in Southport in large measure depends on the residents who
live here. We have said over and over again, we are a city of volunteers. We
live much larger than most communities our size, because neighbors participate
and volunteer their time and talents to help make their community better. The
future of Southport, the community we love and our quality of life depends on
keeping the neighbor in the neighborhood.”
Alderman Lombardi stated that he had received a lot of calls and must support
the proposed ordinance.
Alderman Lowe Davis thanked everyone for speaking. She said that this was one
of the most complex decisions she has had to face, but she supports the
ordinance.
Alderman Lora Sharkey said that she reviewed the documents and has listened a
lot. She has looked at the Nags Head ordinance and the ordinance from Chapel
Hill. Those ordinances are not as stringent and allow more time to respond. She
questioned whether the Planning Board had worked with any experts from the UNC
School of Government. Alderman Sharkey had specific questions about property
owners who want to live in their dwelling part-time and use it as a short-term
rental the other portion of the year. Overall, she wonders if Southport is
overstepping our abilities. Alderman Sharkey stated that the Planning Board and
staff missed a valuable opportunity to collaborate with realtors and rental
property owners in the area. She said that she does think that registration and
limiting it to certain zoning districts are reasonable, but the proposed
ordinance is too stringent. Southport needs a reasonable and legal ordinance.
Alderman Marc Spencer thanked everyone for living in Southport and for
attending the meeting. He said that as everyone was talking about the character
of Southport, it was making his stomach turn. His grandmother had a tenant that
rented a room from her for a long time. Other people rented rooms in their
homes if they needed the income. In addition, his mother had a rental on VRBO
(Vacation Rentals By Owner) to hold on to their life-long home because of the
additional income it generated. He said he feels like it is an elitist view
that if you cannot afford a house in Southport, you don’t deserve to live in
Southport. If we all had jobs where people could afford to live here, they
would. He said that the people driving the ordinance are the same people who
spend half a year in Southport and live in France for the rest of the year.
Alderman Allen asked if City Attorney Mike Isenberg had reviewed the proposed
ordinance. Mr. Isenberg said that he had reviewed it and conferred with Rebecca
Badgett from the School of Government and a few other attorneys from towns with
similar ordinances. Mr. Isenberg stated that if there is a provision for
“grandfathering” the short-term vacation rentals that have been in operation
within the residential districts, that the term “have been in operation” should
be defined and he suggested that the short-term rentals will have to provide
verifiable proof of bookings before the date of the adoption of the ordinance.
He also questioned whether it was the intention of the ordinance to punish
people who may want to rent their property during portions of the year for
longer than (30) days. He suggested adding some language that occupancy of the
dwelling for longer than thirty (30) days by a renter, does not count as
discontinuation for the purpose of this ordinance. Alderman Allen made a motion
to adopt the Statement of Land Use Consistency and the Short-term Rentals
Ordinance, with the two changes recommended by the City Attorney. Mayor Pro-tem
Mosteller seconded the motion. Those in favor were Mayor Pro tem Mosteller,
Alderman Allen, Alderman Davis, and Alderman Lombardi. Alderman Sharkey and
Alderman Spencer voted against the Land Use Consistency Statement and Short-
term Rental Ordinance. Majority ruled. Motion carried.  
The Mayor dismissed everyone for a ten-minute recess at 8:26 p.m.
   2.
   The meeting was reopened at 8:42 p.m. The next item on the agenda was the
System Development Fees (SDF) for the marina’s new dry storage building. They
are ready for their building permit, but the SDF must be paid before issuing
the permit. The Mayor read the definition of System Development Fees. Gordon
Hargrove explained that there have been discussions about how to calculate the
SDF since the use is less than recommended. The owner of the marina claims that
at no point will all the boat slips be used. Mr. Hargrove said that are a few
options to consider: 1. Base the SDF on the number of parking spaces (54) for a
total of $15930.00; 2. Leave the rates/SDF as they are calculated using the
prescribed/studied rates; and 3. Adjust the entire rate schedule for peak daily
usage. But the study would be paid for by the requester. The marina owner, Mr.
Rose, explained to the Board his request for a lower SDF rate. He said that the
peak usage on all of his existing buildings/use is 4800 gallons per day. Mr.
Rose suggested the methodology used includes other amenities like swimming
pools. He proposed that because there is no water/sewer in his proposed dry
storage building, he shouldn’t have to pay any SDF. Mr. Rose thanked Mr.
Hargrove and Mr. Lloyd for explaining SDF to him. Mr. Hargrove asked about the
process when boats return to the storage area and whether the boats get rinsed
off before they are put back in storage. Alderman Sharkey said that the marina
is an excellent business. They have great employees and are great to the
community. But she said that all businesses need to be treated fairly. It
wouldn’t be fair to base the SDF on the parking spaces because all businesses
would expect that consideration. Alderman Allen said that a sprinkler system
still has to be serviced there at the marina and that the City just finished
working out a water allocation with Brunswick County. He suggested the fees
stand as calculated because there is no correlation between parking spaces and
boat slips. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller agreed that the City already had to
purchase more water allocation for the marina to get a permit. She is hesitant
to try to rewrite the SDF ordinance for one customer. Alderman Spencer said
that the marina is doubling its capacity. More information is needed about the
regular water use for the dry storage building and bathhouse. He said he
appreciates the marina and all they do for the community and hopes that a
compromise can be made.
Alderman Allen made a motion to charge the older SDF rate applicable when the
application was made. Alderman Sharkey seconded. Mr. Hargrove restated that the
City is not asking him to shut down his existing bathhouse, but the new renters
would not be able to use the amenity, or more SDF would be charged. Mr. Rose
said that he would have porta-johns placed on the property if needed. After the
motion and the second, the Board voted unanimously to use the old SDF rates.
Motion carried .
   3.
   Mayor Hatem opened the public hearing at 9:21 p.m. to consider the request
for contiguous annexation of 1147 S. Caswell Avenue. Thomas Lloyd summarized
the request. Terry and Sue Finch, the owners of parcel #221MA014, have
requested the 0.14 tract to be annexed so that they can access City utilities.
The Clerk found the request sufficient, and all other procedures followed the
state requirements. Rezoning is not required at this time .  The public hearing
was closed at 9:22 p.m.  After a motion made by Alderman Allen and seconded by
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller, the Board approved the annexation for 1147 N. Caswell
Avenue and the Annexation ordinance as presented. All ayes. Motion carried.
   4.
   The Mayor opened the public hearing at 9:23 p.m. to discuss the Phase 2
rezoning request for three parcels on N. Caswell Avenue. The Board requested
the rezoning of several lots in this area back in January. Phase 1 was approved
in June 2021. The properties are zoned either MF or BD, but given their
location and lot size, the Board requested they be zoned R-10. Mr. Lloyd has
sent notice and information to all property owners that the rezoning might
impact, but only one party was opposed to the rezoning. The public hearing was
closed at 9:26 p.m. After a motion made by Alderman Sharkey and seconded by
Alderman Allen, the Board approved the Phase 2 N. Caswell Avenue rezoning
request and map amendment for parcel IDs 221MA0111, 221MA014, and 221 MA015 are
rezoned to the R-10 zoning designation. The map amendment for these three
parcels is approved. All ayes. Motion carried.
   5.
   Mayor Hatem stated that the next item on the agenda is the Resolution in
Support of the Financing Terms with TRUIST for fire trucks. Fire Chief Charles
Drew stated that the City received three bids for financing, and TRUIST was the
best interest rate, at 1.42%. After a motion made by Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller
and seconded by Alderman Lombardi, the Board approved the resolution approving
the financing terms with TRUIST, as presented. All ayes. Motion carried.
Committee Reports
Alderman Spencer stated that the ABC building construction is well underway.
The ABC Board report is included in the packet. Alderman Sharkey said that the
Rate Committee had a short meeting recently, but more information is needed by
the Finance Officer. Alderman Davis announced that the Forestry Committee will
be meeting the following Thursday at the Indian Trail Meeting Hall. Mayor Pro-
tem Mosteller stated that the streetlight policy committee has a draft ready to
be reviewed by staff and by the attorney. The draft will be available to the
public soon. Also, the Planning Board will meet next Thursday, July 15 th .
Manager's Report
Mr. Hargrove said that he only had no items to report at this time.
Mayor's Comments
Mayor Hatem thanked everyone for their hard work and patience during the
lengthy meeting. He stated that the 4 th of July holiday was a wonderful day;
he attended the Southport Baptist Church cookout and the flag-raising ceremony.
The Garrison lawn looked beautiful, and the flotilla was fun to watch. All week
long, the City was engulfed with visitors. He proposed that next year, the
parade and fireworks will return to Southport.
The Mayor thanked staff for the emergency alert sent out regarding the
waterspout seen in Southport on the Cape Fear River. Covid-19 cases are showing
up again. He urged everyone to use caution when interacting. July 3 rd was the
Mayor’s 36 th anniversary as an ER doctor in Southport. The Howe Street project
is moving along.
Board Comments
Alderman Spencer clarified that his comments earlier were not directed towards
the Mayor. He likes the Mayor’s bowtie and Converse. He reiterated that people
who reside in Southport only part-time have a negative effect. If we are going
to be a tourist economy, we need to do things to support tourism. We all need
to be aware that it is beautiful here but not an easy place to stay. He
appreciates the Board attending the church service at the Baptist Church on the
4 th  to honor all first responders. He was proud to have so many Board members
present.
Alderman Sharkey apologized to the Mayor. She said that she wasn’t trying to
make him feel uncomfortable earlier. She still thinks that the Board members
have the right to request something be added to the agenda. She hopes to add
the Alderman of the Month program to the agenda for discussion next month.
Alderman Lowe Davis apologized for not attending the cookout at the Baptist
Church, but she was performing a ceremony at another facility.
Alderman Lombardi said he needs more information about the Alderman of the
Month program because he is unfamiliar with it. Alderman Sharkey said that it
allows for more diversity and inclusion in the meetings.
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller thanked everyone for attending. She mentioned that she
had the good fortune to spend time with Police Chief Coring when he got a call
about an alligator in someone’s yard. While they were on that call, another
call came in about an egret caught in a fishing line on the pier. Some folks
had been feeding it shrimp, and then the bird swallowed the line with a shrimp
on it. The line was cut but couldn’t be removed from the bird’s mouth. Mayor
Pro-tem Mosteller suggested that it would be helpful to develop information for
visitors, encouraging them not to interfere with wildlife. She also said that
short-term rentals are a complicated subject and that no one takes it lightly.
Finally, she said that the Assistant Director of Communications, Lisa Anderson,
created emergency information kits. They are now available to the public at the
City Hall, Fire Department, library, and Community Building.
Mayor Hatem said he preferred not to reinstate the Alderman of the Month
program; he prefers a business meeting format. It was not his intention to keep
the Board out of the loop with the agenda.
After a motion made by Alderman Lombardi and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem
Mosteller, the Mayor adjourned the Board meeting at 9:48 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
 
                     ___________________________________
                     Joseph P. Hatem, M.D., M.P.H.
                     Mayor, City of Southport
________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk   
JULY 30, 2021
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING JULY 30, 2021 3:30 P.M.
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Joseph P. Hatem
         Mayor Pro-tem Karen Mosteller; Aldermen Lora Sharkey, Lowe Davis,
         John Allen, Marc Spencer, and Tom Lombardi
STAFF PRESENT:
Gordon Hargrove, City Manager         Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
Melanie Trexler, Finance Director         Tom Stanley, Public Services Director
OTHERS PRESENT: Carolina MacGregor, from the State Port Pilot, Richard Alt,
Robert Carroll, Tish Hatem
A)   Call to Order
Mayor Hatem called the special meeting to order at 3:31 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Lowe Davis gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
Mayor Hatem led everyone in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Approval of Agenda-
After a motion made by Alderman Allen and seconded by Alderman Lombardi, the
agenda was approved as it was presented.
Business
   1.
   The Mayor summarized the purpose of the Special Meeting was to discuss a
change order to the Bay Street erosion repair project. Public Services
Director, Tom Stanley approached the podium to address the Board. He said that
once the stones were being dropped, he noticed the rocks were being placed at a
thirty-degree angle. The contractor came up with a different design that would
minimize the possible damage to the Bay Street and Waterfront Park area. The
new design would be more of a tabletop design. The rocks would be built 15-18
feet off the sidewalk and then would drop down to the shoreline. This design
gives the water a place to crash that would not be in the road. The water can
hit the rocks and dissipate down through the rocks. Under the new design, we
are 500 tons of rock short to complete the project. The difference in cost is
$75,000. The labor cost won’t increase.
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller asked if the new design was recommended by the
installer, has been used other places? Tom Stanley, said that he is sure that
it has been used other places and that given the current status of the area, it
is the best design to protect us in the future.
Alderman Davis asked where the additional $75,000 would come from and Gordon
Hargrove explained that the money was already in the Capital Improvement Fund.
Alderman Spencer asked if there would still be a low-tide area and Mr. Stanley
said that there would. Alderman Spencer also asked about how urgently the
repairs are needed. Mr. Stanley said that it does not make sense to wait
because there were several sections that had collapsed. Hurricane season is
approaching, and we don’t know what will happen next time. Alderman Sharkey
asked is the new design would provide better protection for the area under the
pier than the original design. Tom Stanley said the new design was definitely
better for that area and the contractor is saving the smaller rocks to place
under the pier. Alderman Davis asked what the estimated completion date would
be, and Mr. Stanley said that it should be completed in two to three weeks.
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller asked about additional FEMA financing. If FEMA
originally offered $330,000 to the project and with the prior design, were only
spending $314,000, maybe the City can request the difference. Tom Stanley said
that were already looking into that possibility.
Mayor Hatem asked if there were any questions from the audience. Robert Carroll
said he had one question. “
Mayor Hatem thanked Tom Stanley, Gordon Hargrove, and other staff for coming up
with this plan and getting projects done. After a motion made by Alderman
Sharkey and seconded by Alderman Lombardi, the Board approved the transfer of
$75,000 from the Capital Project fund to pay for the change order on the Bay
Street Erosion Improvement project, as presented. All ayes. Motion carried.  
E.)
After a motion made by Alderman Allen and seconded by Alderman Lombardi, the
Mayor adjourned the meeting at 3:57 p.m. All ayes. Motion carried.
                     ____________________________________
                     Joseph P. Hatem, M.D., M.P.H.
                     Mayor, City of Southport
 
____________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
AUGUST 12, 2021
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING August 12, 2021
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
Present:    Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor Pro Tem Karen Mosteller, Aldermen
Thomas Lombardi, Lora Sharkey, Lowe Davis, Marc Spencer, and John Allen.
Staff Present:   Gordon Hargrove, City Manager
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
   Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
   Thomas Lloyd, Developmental Services Director
   Randy Jones, Communications/Tourism Director
   Allayna Dail, Community Building and Communications Staff
   Heather Hemphill, Parks and Recreation Director
   Tom Stanley, Public Services Director
   Kate Marshall, Animal Control/Code Enforcement
   Todd Coring, Police Chief
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
   Chris Martin, Code Enforcement Officer
Others Present: Tish Hatem, Richard Alt, Robert Carroll, David Crumpler and his
wife, Adam Steadman, Harley Lemons, Glen Price, Wayne Deutscher, Rebecca Kelly,
and many other interested citizens in attendance.
Meetings are now open to the public. Full audio/video is available on the
City's website or can be requested from the City Clerk's office.
A.)
Call to order by Mayor Joseph P. Hatem at 6:01 p.m. and welcomed everyone to
the meeting.
B.)
Mayor Hatem announced that Reverend Deacon Sally Learned would be giving the
invocation. She is affiliated with the Episcopal Church and works with many
local humanitarian organizations.
C.)
Everyone joined Mayor Hatem in reciting the Pledge of Allegiance.
D.) Public Comment:
Mayor Hatem asked if those present to speak about streetlights or traffic would
please wait until another portion of the meeting. Ms. Dutton stated that only
two individuals had signed up for public comment. The first was Richard Alt,
who resides at 6165 Cottage Creek Road. Mr. Alt praised the Board for hiring
Gordon Hargrove as the City Manager. He said that Gordon has done an amazing
job since he has been in Southport and is the best thing that has happened to
Southport in a long time. He also commented about the $25,000 that was set
aside for audio-visual in the Community Building. Mr. Alt is frustrated that
the audience is not able to see the same visuals as the Board. He said that if
it is going to be a while before the building gets equipped, there should be a
standard size for any site plan or document so that the audience can see it,
too. And he suggested that the essential documents should be shared with the
media.
The second speaker was David Crumpler. He explained that he and his wife lived
in Southport part-time but are building a home and will soon be full-time
residents. When they applied for their building permit, there was no address on
the property, so City staff had to send the address request to Brunswick
County. The addressing process took longer than expected, and they had to
postpone their contractors. When they got the address assigned, there was a
glitch in the permitting software, and staff had trouble issuing the permit.
Finally, Mr. Crumpler couldn’t postpone the tree removal contractor, and he
cleared some trees from the property. Mr. Crumpler said that they broke the
rules and cleared some property without a tree removal permit. He said that he
was present to ask for forgiveness from the penalty and violation. Mayor Hatem
thanked the Crumplers for attending and addressing the Board. They would take
it under advisement.
E.) Approval of Agenda:
After a motion made by Alderman Allen and seconded by Alderman Sharkey, the
Board approved the agenda, as presented.
Mayor Joseph P. Hatem read the ethics statement.
Mayor Hatem read through the list of items on the Consent Agenda.
F.) Approval of Consent Agenda
   1.   Minutes Regular Board of Aldermen Meeting July 8, 2021
   2.   Minutes Special Board of Aldermen Meeting June 30, 2021
   3.   Tax Releases from Brunswick County
   4.   Budget Amendment #1
   5.   Brunswick Electric Contract re-approval
A motion was made by Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller and seconded by Alderman Lombardi
to approve the consent agenda. All ayes. Motion carried.
G. Special Recognition:
Mayor Hatem read a proclamation in recognition of National Immunization
Awareness Month. He said that it is so important for Southport to recognize the
importance of vaccinations and be aware of the history and science behind
immunizations.
H.) Agenda
   1.
   Mayor Hatem stated that the City has two new employees and asked Gordon
Hargrove to introduce them. Mr. Hargrove introduced Allayna Dail, who is the
new Community Building Manager and Communications staff. She has a non-profit
background and has also worked in building management. Next, Mr. Hargrove
introduced Chris Martin, the new Code Enforcement Officer. He is from Ohio and
is a former police officer. Mr. Hargrove said that so far, he is doing a great
job.
   2.
   Mayor Hatem said the Street Light Committee has been working hard to get a
draft policy together. He asked Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller to begin her
presentation. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller provided the following comments:
“This update grew out of the recognition by the City Manager that the current
street light policy needed additional clarification.
For several month’s we have been working on updating the city streetlight
policy. Streetlights can be part of the health and safety of a community and an
important design element that contributes to the overall look and feel of a
community.
This is an important policy update that affects existing lights as well as new
subdivisions. … Article 4 in the UDO requires the subdivider of a major
subdivision creating new streets to install street lighting in accordance with
the city’s street light policy.
The Street Light policy update committee has been working for several months to
produce this draft. This is the first public meeting to review the proposed
draft, and we are looking forward to input.
Some general overall comments about the document…
The draft is consistent with Article 3.16 Lighting section in the UDO …
•   Identifying the maximum color temperature to be 3000 degrees Kelvin which
is a warm white. Also
•   Recognizing overhead light fixtures shall be designed to prevent light from
emitting upwards towards the sky.
The stated purpose of the draft is to reduce negative impacts on wildlife,
human eye sensitivity, and the natural beauty of the night sky while providing
light to enhance safety and the City's appearance.
We live in an environmentally sensitive coastal area, and while all artificial
light impacts wildlife, we refer to recommendations from the International Dark
Skies Association, a non-profit recognized as leader providing support and
technical assistance for policymakers.
International Dark Skies recommendations help mitigate the effects of exterior
lighting.
The draft includes a list of approved fixtures and a map identifying the
locations for the types of fixtures. Fixtures that are consistent with Dark
Skies certification.
The draft also clarifies the responsibilities of the city regarding maintenance
and operation of streetlights on city-maintained roads.
And clarifies the city responsibility regarding streetlights in communities
like Rivermist. When Rivermist was developed, the city decided to allow
Brunswick Electric to be their provider of electricity.
While Rivermist has city-maintained roads, they are unique because the city
does not provide their electric service, and the HOA pays for all the
streetlights starting with J. Swain Blvd.”
Alderman Sharkey stated that the policy intended to address who is responsible
for maintaining the streetlights. The style used downtown will not change, but
the color of the light is proposed to change. Intensity can be addressed
differently. People don’t want yellow lights in their neighborhoods. All
neighborhoods should have access to having the City maintain their lights as
long as it is a City Road.
Alderman Davis said that she has surveyed all of the lights in the City, and
there is a wide variety. The blue-white lights are very harsh on the eyes. The
“yellow” lights are not really yellow, they are just a warmer light. We will
not overhaul all of the lights in the City at one time, but we want to have a
guide in place moving forward, as things need to be replaced. At the Hammocks
subdivision, there are several different intensities and kelvins installed for
comparison. Alderman Davis encouraged the public to use the map and drive
through the Hammocks to see the different kinds of lighting.
Mayor Hatem asked the Clerk to call the first name on the list to speak, and
Harley Lemons was called and approached the podium. Mr. Lemons, who resides at
6228 Navigator Way, stated that he served on the homeowner’s association for
the Landing, and he has also served on many City committees. It was recently
discovered that the Landing was getting billed $200 a month for lighting. The
HOA is waiting for reimbursement from the City. He said that nonconforming
lights are still confusing, and he isn’t sure who is responsible for the
lighting in those areas. He said that it seems that areas zoned PUD (Planned
Unit Development) are treated differently and not like a residential area.
Glen Price, who resides at 6142 River Sound Circle, thanked the Board, Mayor,
and Manager. He stated that he lives at the Landing. He was at a Board meeting
a few months ago addressing the stadium-style lighting in front of his home. He
hopes to go through the Hammocks to see the lighting tests that were set up. In
2013, when his family moved here, the coastal community feel was most
appealing. They toured the City during the day and in the evening. He said that
the natural beauty was preserved at the Landing.
Wayne Deutscher, who resides at 1015 Softwind Way, said that he lives where
light “Example B” is located, and he said it was the brightest light ever. The
Hammocks subdivision is in transition between the Developer passing control
onto the homeowner’s association. After speaking to others in the subdivision,
there was a consensus that light “Example D” was the best. Mr. Deutscher said
that he was on the Board when he lived in St. James. They were spending close
to $300,000 on streetlights a year in St. James. He said that he was confused
because the Hammocks subdivision will have to apply to the City to take over
the streetlights.
Adam Steadman asked if he could speak, even though he had not signed in for
comments. He had addressed the Board a few months ago about streetlights. He
has read through the proposed policy and recommends changing the policy to
state that replacements must be 3000 kelvins or less. He recommends using 2700
kelvin bulbs if they are available. He stated that he agrees with some of
Alderman Sharkey’s comments and some of the information that Alderman Davis and
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller presented. Mr. Steadman suggested that the language be
changed so that HOA neighborhoods are treated the same as non-HOA
neighborhoods. Any property owner close to a streetlight should have input on
what type of light is used, not just in HOA neighborhoods.
Alderman Lombardi stated that in Rivermist, where he resides, a streetlight is
so bright that the house closest to the streetlights doesn’t have to use its
inside lights in certain rooms.
Alderman Sharkey thanked Mr. Deutscher for attending the meeting and providing
a more substantial community opinion. She agrees with Mr. Steadman that the
opinion of a homeowner should be considered as much as an HOA. She hopes that
the Streetlight Committee can make appropriate changes and get it back to the
Board for adoption.
Mayor Hatem said that it would be taken back to the committee and revised as
quickly as possible. He encouraged the public to continue sending comments.
Alderman Allen said that street lighting is such a complex topic, he would like
to schedule a Board workshop to understand everything more thoroughly.
Rebecca Kelly, from the audience, stood and suggested that a survey be created
through Survey Monkey so that the whole town can participate. Alderman Davis
agreed that the City needs to get as much information out to the public as
possible.
   3.
   The Mayor opened the public hearing at 7:09 p.m. to discuss the annexation
request for 1304 N. Howe Street. The parcel is a 0.38-acre tract owned by
Oceanside Holdings LLC. The owners would like access to City utilities and do
not have to be rezoned since it is currently in the ETJ. At the last Board
meeting, the Board accepted the Clerk’s Certificate of Sufficiency and set the
public hearing for August 12, 2021. Appropriate notice was given. Alderman
Spencer stated that he works with one of the applicants, and there is no
conflict of interest, but he wanted to make sure that he was allowed to vote.
City Attorney, Mike Isenberg, said that he was allowed to vote. The Mayor
closed the Public Hearing at 7:12 p.m. After a motion made by Alderman Allen
and seconded by Alderman Spencer, the Board approved the annexation of the
property at 1304 N. Howe Street (Par ID# 221MB018) and the annexation
ordinance, as presented. All ayes. Motion carried.  
   4.
   Alderman Sharkey was asked to introduce the next agenda item, the Alderman
of the Month program. The program would allow each Board member the opportunity
to open the meeting twice a year. The Alderman can invite a guest to do the
invocation, act as the greeter for the meeting, or take more of a leadership
role during the meeting. It provides a sense of purpose and allows the public
to get to know the Board better.
Alderman Allen stated that the meetings are fine without the program and
doesn’t see the need to reinstate that program. Alderman Spencer said that the
program was beneficial because it “forced” him to give the invocation. He
thought it would be nice to be able to bring people into the meeting. Alderman
Davis stated that she didn’t see how it would increase attendance at the
meetings. She said that she has never had any problem adding things to the
agenda as long as they are brought up ahead of time. Alderman Davis said that
she is opposed to it because it adds a whole other level of bureaucracy for
City staff. She sees no real benefit. Alderman Lombardi commented that he was
not aware of the program until recently. He feels like he has enough
opportunity to speak already between the reports and comments. He doesn’t feel
the need to reinstate the program.
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller stated that she thinks “it is more inclusive if the
Mayor keeps a list of all the Churches in Southport and the ETJ and invites one
each month rather than us individually asking someone. Seems a more effective
way to be inclusive. That is all that occurs to me. The Board Comments agenda
item gives us the opportunity to speak directly to the Board and citizens about
experiences or issues in the community.” She does not see the need to use the
program.
Alderman Spencer commented that right now, the Board has the opportunity to
speak at the end of the meeting with their comments. This program would allow
the Board members to greet the public, recite the Pledge of Allegiance and act
as a leader. A motion was made by Alderman Spencer and seconded by Alderman
Sharkey to approve using the Alderman of the Month program. Mayor Pro-tem
Mosteller and Aldermen Allen, Davis, and Lombardi all voted opposed to the
motion. The motion did not carry, and the Alderman of the Month program will
not be reinstated.
   5.
   Mayor Hatem read a portion of a letter from the NC Governor, Roy Cooper,
regarding the American Rescue Plan funds. Then he called Melanie Trexler to the
podium to explain the proposed ordinance. The state requires that a separate
fund be created to track how the ARP funding is used appropriately, with the
state guidelines. The Board has not yet determined what to spend the funding
on, but Alderman Sharkey pointed out a deadline to confirm how the funding will
be spent. City Manager Hargrove explained that the first part of the program
funding would be spent on the sewer expansion project. The second part of the
funding will likely go towards sewer processing. After a motion made by Mayor
Pro-tem Mosteller and seconded by Alderman Spencer, the Board approved the
Capital Project Ordinance for the American Rescue Plan funding. All ayes.
Motion carried.  
Committee Reports
Alderman Allen stated that he had no Committee reports to review.
Alderman Spencer stated that he attended the ABC Committee meeting. The
completion of the new ABC building is slated for October. Alderman Spencer
asked Melanie Trexler to confirm the amount of ABC contributions to the City,
almost half a million dollars.
Alderman Davis, a liaison for the Forestry Committee, explained that the
committee met this week. She wanted to remind the public that their page on the
City website has all sorts of information that might be helpful: how to care
for trees, types of trees, the benefits of a natural or artificial Christmas
tree.
Alderman Lombardi reported that the Beautification committee has its monthly
meeting Monday, August 16 th, at the Indian Trail Meeting Hall. September 4 th
is the next clean-up day. Volunteers and committee members should meet at the
historical jail with gloves and a smile. At the Board of Adjustment meeting,
the Board appointed Harley Lemons to serve as Board Chair, Pete Haislip as
Vice-Chair, and Josh Cline McGee as Interim chair.
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller made the following comments, “Based on the
recommendations of the Yacht Basin Overlay District Committee, the Planning
Board is currently working on recommendations to create a Yacht Basin Parking
Overlay District to allow the four parcels zoned residential R-10 to be used
for parking with design standards. And the creation of a local historic
Commission. The planning board also continues to update recommendations for the
tree ordinance to help clarify tree removal mitigation requirements when new
subdivisions are submitting a tree plan. Please remember…the Planning Board
will meet at its regularly scheduled time, next Thursday at 6:00 p.m., here in
the Community Building. Everyone is invited to attend.
The Parks and Recreation Advisory Committee met earlier in the week. They
discussed phase two of the City dock project that will replace the remaining
50% of the structure in accordance with the CAMA-approved plans. The expected
completion date is Jan. 2022. When this phase is completed, the dock will have
undergone a complete rebuild. The bid packages for Taylor Field Park are in
process and should be going out for bid in September. The Kingsley Park pier
hurricane repair project is waiting for final FEMA approval, and our Parks and
Rec Director is hoping that approval is coming soon. Many folks have been
enjoying the city dock since it was able to reopen after the initial 50%
restoration …get ready …for the first time in 5 years with the repaired City
Dock… Please plan to attend the Parks and Rec sponsored Crab Derby on Monday,
Sept 6, Labor Day, starting at 9 a.m. at the City Dock in the Yacht Basin.
There will be a range of age brackets, including ages from 4 to 16. And
finally, Plan on attending the Garrison Lawn Movie Series tomorrow night,
Friday, beginning at dusk. You can relax on the garrison lawn and watch Toy
Story 4.”
Manager's Report
Mr. Hargrove said that on July 15 th , the NCDEQ inspected some of our utility
facilities, including lift stations and a lot of records. We received a good
report. He thanked Tom Stanley and his staff. He stated that more stone had
been added to the Bay Street repairs. Mr. Hargrove thanked Mr. Richard Alt for
his kind words earlier in the meeting, but he didn’t do all of the work alone.
Mr. Hargrove announced a discrepancy in the approved amount for the fire trucks
that were approved last October (2020). He asked the Board to make a motion for
the additional $4210.00. After a motion made by Alderman Allen and seconded by
Alderman Spencer, the Board approved the additional $4210.00 for the (2) fire
trucks.
Alderman Spencer asked if the City Manager has the authority to waive the
Crumpler’s tree removal penalty? Attorney, Mike Isenberg, stated that only the
Board could remove the fine once the penalty had been issued. Alderman Spencer
said that the Board never discussed the fine earlier in the meeting. Because
the City’s permitting software held them up for a while, he would like to
consider waiving the fines and allow them to mitigate the tree loss. Mayor
Hatem said that the item would be sent back to staff for a recommendation at
next month’s meeting. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller and Alderman Allen agreed that
staff brings it back at the next meeting. Alderman Davis said that many people
have already paid fines for tree removal. There is a process that must be
followed. Alderman Spencer thanked the Mayor and Board for their consideration.
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller said that they needed the ordinance to back their
decision up.
Mayor's Comments
After his unexpected passing, mayor Hatem expressed gratitude that Sheriff
James Clemmons was brought back to Southport to his final resting place.
The Mayor stated that the City staff is stretched right now, but they are
working hard. Construction has not kept patients from finding their way to the
hospital. Covid numbers are still rising. There were forty active cases in
Brunswick County in June. Now, between the Delta variant and people against
vaccination, there are 458 active cases.
Board Comments
Alderman Allen suggested not using Fodale Avenue to avoid traffic; instead, he
suggested using Leonard Avenue. He said that he appreciates everyone’s patience
with the Howe Street project. He commented that Tom Stanley had done a heroic
job in keeping the project moving forward. This Saturday, Up Your Arts, is
hosting a clam bake and tickets are available online.
Alderman Spencer said that he hopes the City can follow through with the
Crumpler’s request. He asked if the City could accept Price’s Street off of
Jabbertown Road. Mr. Hargrove will look into that possibility. Alderman Spencer
recently attended the Advanced Leadership course, and he encouraged other Board
members to take the course. Alderman Spencer congratulated Frank Williams, who
is a Commissioner for Brunswick County. He was recently appointed as President
of the NC Association of County Commissioners. Ms. Myrna Watson recently passed
away at the age of 103. He thanked all of the mentors in the community.
Alderman Spencer also commented that the Northwoods Cemetery is getting rough
and has received many complaints. He thanked Tom Stanley for cleaning it up in
time for the service over the weekend. He also commented that the City needs to
start paying staff better, or we will be in the same situation as Hardees,
closing at 2:00 p.m.
Alderman Sharkey thanks all the City staff-those who work outside and inside.
She said she wanted to clarify the Alderman of the Month program request
because it was an existing program that was removed without explanation. She
said that the Board should be discussing policies, but they haven’t had any
discussions about those things. She gets questions and comments about how
decisions are being made because the public doesn’t see any discussions. They
are elected by the citizens and should be representing the public. Decisions
should be made after discussions and voting. She said that the Aldermen are the
decision-making body in the City.
Alderman Davis said that she doesn’t understand how the Alderman of the Month
program would facilitate making decisions. She stated that she hasn’t seen so
many people in attendance as are present for this meeting. She likes the idea
of having an online survey for the street light policy. And she congratulated
Harvey Lemons on his appointment as Board of Adjustment Chair.
Alderman Lombardi mentioned there is a flag-lowering ceremony at the waterfront
at 7:00 p.m. every night through September.
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller thanked everyone for attending.
Mayor Hatem thanked everyone for being present and said that decisions are not
made lightly. Since he has been Mayor, he hasn’t had to vote even once, so the
Board must be doing a good job. And the staff is also working hard.
After a motion made by Alderman Lombardi and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem
Mosteller, the Mayor adjourned the Board meeting at 8:07 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
 
                     ___________________________________
                     Joseph P. Hatem, M.D., M.P.H.
                     Mayor, City of Southport
________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk   
AUGUST 31, 2021
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING AUGUST 31, 2021 5:00 P.M.
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Joseph P. Hatem
         Mayor Pro-tem Karen Mosteller; Aldermen Lora Sharkey, Lowe Davis,
         John Allen, Marc Spencer, and Tom Lombardi
STAFF PRESENT:
Gordon Hargrove, City Manager               Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
Thomas Lloyd, Development Services Director         Tom Stanley, Public
Services Director
Todd Coring, Police Chief                  Ralph Treadway, EMS Battalion Chief
Randy Jones, Tourism & Comm. Director         Lisa Anderson, Asst. Director
Tourism & Comm.
Kate Marshall, Animal Protective Services         Tony Burke, Major, Police
Department
Sgt. Wigmore, Police Department               Sgt. Moore, Police Department
OTHERS PRESENT: Carolina MacGregor, from the State Port Pilot, Richard Alt,
Robert Carroll, Tish Hatem, Rebecca Kelly, Jennifer, and Arthur Fontaine, Larry
Ashley, Lois Gandy, Judy Tharp, Will Hewitt, Katie, William, and Andrew Boyd,
Cailtin Marks and Keith Eason with the NCDOT and several other concerned
citizens.
A)   Call to Order
Mayor Hatem called the special meeting to order at 5:02 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Lowe Davis gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
Mayor Hatem led everyone in the Pledge of Allegiance. Mayor Hatem asked
everyone to remember the people in Louisiana with the effects from Hurricane
Ida, as well as the people in Afghanistan.
D)   Approval of Agenda
After a motion made by Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller and seconded by Alderman
Lombardi, the agenda was approved as it was presented.
E)    Town Hall/Workshop Agenda
   1.
   Mayor Hatem welcomed Caitlin Marks and Keith Eason with the NCDOT. He
explained that the first portion of the meeting was for the public and Board
members to mingle and ask the NCDOT representatives and the Police Department.
There are two tables set up in the lobby with officers, and they can review
some of the data gathered regarding speeding in the City.
   2.
   Mayor Hatem encouraged everyone to find their seats. He asked Police Chief
Coring to begin his presentation. Chief Coring said that the Police Department
had received many phone calls and emails regarding speeding, stop signs, too
many stop signs, reckless driving, etc. They have City-wide complaints, not
just specific areas. Once a complaint is lodged, the officers go out and
observe the area and often use the radar to observe speeds. The Department uses
two different pieces of equipment to obtain information. The speed trailer is
older, but it reads the speed and counts traffic. The information is logged and
can be extracted to look at the overall picture. The other equipment is a
message board that clocks speed. This device also counts traffic, keeps track
of the day and time, and helps create percentage charts. Chief Coring has
spoken to the Highway Patrol, and they similarly do their speed observations.
The speed limits in the City range from 15-35 miles per hour. The Southport
Police Department is comprised of thirteen officers. Southport is essentially a
small town with big town problems. The Department reviews the data and tries to
figure out where they can best place resources. Bay Street is one of the
biggest attractions in the City. Out of 11,000 vehicles that were logged, only
0.03 were going at least ten miles over the speed limit. On Park Avenue, which
is between Leonard and Moore Streets, 12,000 vehicles were logged, and 6% of
those vehicles were driving at excessive speeds.
The Police Department tries to focus on safety. They also are proactive through
education programs like “Schools In, Speed’s Out.” During the Howe Street
construction project, it was necessary to create four-way stops in some areas,
which seemed to decrease excessive speeds. Mayor Hatem asked what the threshold
was for speeding before traffic control devices would be installed. Chief
Coring said that he is unaware of a threshold or recommended limit, but he
would reach out to the NCDOT for suggestions. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller stated
that Park Avenue and Stuart Avenue had been problems for a long time. She would
like to see some traffic control devices installed as a test and for the Police
Chief to bring the results back for them to review.
Alderman Davis said that the speed limit in many residential areas is 25 miles
per hour. She thinks that is too fast for a residential area. Park Avenue
residents are concerned. The chart provided indicates that over 50% of vehicles
were speeding between May 21-May 24th. She suggests the City install some
devices since we don’t have the personnel to manage all the streets all of the
time. Alderman Lombardi recommended installing more stop signs to slow people
down. Alderman Sharkey suggested that because of the stop signs, some people
might be speeding to get through the intersection since they have to stop. She
suggests waiting until Howe Street opens up and collecting at least a weeks’
worth of data to see if that helps reduce the speeding problems. Chief Coring
thanked the Board for their time.
   3.
   Mayor Hatem introduced Tom Stanley, and he approached the podium. Mr.
Stanley stated that the topcoat on Howe Street should be done on Wednesday, and
then hopefully, it will be opened to the public by the weekend. Mr. Stanley
said that the Board members all have a street ranking sheet. The list is not
engineered; staff road around and ranked the streets from 1-10. Once Howe
Street is opened up, they will be able to better look at the secondary streets
and any damage that has occurred. He recommends that the secondary streets that
were used during the detours should be repaired next. His staff is not equipped
to fix potholes. Most of the roads in the City have no base under the asphalt.
Road edges are being taken over by grass. Funding is needed to overhaul the
streets and bring them up to where they need to be. Alderman Lombardi said that
he wishes the City could have a small crew of 3-4 people to do nothing but work
on roads. The money would be saved in the long run. Alderman Spencer asked
Alderman Lombardi how long he thought it would take to repair all the roads?
Alderman Lombardi suspects that it would take years because they need to be re-
formed and paved correctly. Based on the Powell Bill information provided,
there are 28.34 miles of roads that the City is responsible for. Mayor Hatem
and Tom Stanley mentioned that there are several orphaned roads in the City,
too. Mayor Hatem asked if there was a mechanism in place or guidelines for
starting to fix the roads? Alderman Lombardi said that there was an alternative
to paving, called chip-seal. But to use that method, the road has to be in
decent condition to start. It would extend the road for 7-8 years, which is a
third of the cost. Chip-seal uses a thin layer of heated liquid asphalt first,
followed by a layer of chips or stones. Tom Stanley recommended using chip-seal
on E. Nash Street to start since there is a lot of traffic on that road.
Alderman Lombardi offered to help get someone to speak with Mr. Stanley about
the process.
   4.
   Mayor Hatem asked Chief Coring to come back to the podium to discuss
pedestrian safety. Chief Coring said that more pedestrian crosswalks are
needed, for sure. He primarily sees a need around the downtown area and as far
out as St. George Street. The water tower area needs more crosswalks, and the
yacht basin area is an area of concern. Alderman Allen stated that in 2014, the
City had a comprehensive pedestrian plan that lays out a plan for adding
crosswalks and new sidewalks and prioritizes each project. There was a lot of
work done in that plan, and the City should start working on it. Alderman Davis
asked if the plan was available to the public, and Alderman Allen said that the
plan was on the website. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller asked if using a street as a
“through-street” was ticketable and if it can be enforced? Chief Coring said it
could be addressed, but the City would have to adopt an ordinance.
F)    Public Comment
City Clerk Dorothy Dutton read a letter submitted by D. Scott Crook, who
resides at 118 Park Avenue. He stated that the disparities in street
maintenance are unacceptable. Stuart Avenue, W. West Street, Park Avenue,
Turtlewood, and Jabbertown Road are all “cut-through routes.” The people that
live on those streets are not able to enjoy their neighborhoods. They are
afraid to “walk for exercise, take their dogs for a walk, or ride a bicycle.”
In addition, only one of those streets has a sidewalk. Mr. Crook proposes speed
tables be installed because increased law enforcement isn’t feasible. In the
past, Mr. Crook has provided engineering studies to the Board and City Manager.
As proven in Decatur, GA, Clintonville, OH, and many European cities, speed
tables are effective. Several years ago, the former City Manager quoted $1250
for each speed table. Some of the residents of Park Avenue have offered to
contribute financially to the installation of speed tables. Mr. Crook
encouraged the Board to tackle this issue before anyone gets hurt.
Ms. Dutton called Ms. Jennifer Fontaine up to address the Board. Ms. Fontaine,
who resides at 5223 Shipmast Way, said that this meeting has been great because
she was unaware of all of the small steps the City has taken to improve
transportation. Mrs. Fontaine wants to emphasize walkability and safety. She
encouraged the Board to chip away at it. While she appreciates that the Board
has not raised the taxes, she quoted the old adage, “A penny wise and a pound
foolish.” Not too long ago, she went into a pothole, and it ruined her tire.
She said that the sides of the roads and the structure of speed bumps are
critical to making this a lovely community.
Ms. Dutton called Katie and William Boyd, residents at 828 N. Caswell Avenue,
to speak. Mrs. Boyd stated that she doesn’t think that all transportation
problems are because of the Howe Street project. She said that the City has
enforcement issues and construction woes. She came into the office and spoke to
Tori Deviney and Dorrie Dutton to get information about all of the new
developments planned for the area around Caswell Avenue. She said that it is
hard to ride a bike because the sidewalks and the roads are not good. Her cat
was hit by a car by a speeder that didn’t even stop. Her son, William, cannot
ride his bicycle to school because there is too much traffic. She closed by
saying that action is needed, not just more talking. William Boyd expressed
similar frustration about the conditions of the roads and sidewalks. He said
that he doesn’t feel safe riding his bike to school, even though he was looking
forward to going into his 5th grade school year. Mayor Hatem said that he was
very proud of William for speaking to the Board at such a young age.
Next, Ms. Dutton called Andrew Boyd, who resides at 828 N. Caswell Avenue, to
speak to the Board. He said he understands that large trucks must drive down N.
Caswell, but the large trucks are not covered, and all sorts of debris fly out
all the time. He has called the non-emergency line and complained many times.
He read a portion of a state regulation that requires that dump trucks must be
covered or that the height of the load is at least six inches below the top of
the truck walls. The drivers of the trucks should be held accountable.
Larry Ashley, a resident at 637 Wild Rose Way, addressed the Board and stated
that crosswalks were most important. He said that they connect across streets
and that sidewalks should line up when possible. He also suggested that the
City invest in a striping machine so that parking spaces, handicapped spaces,
and crosswalks can be clearly marked.
Ms. Dutton called Lois Gandy to speak. She resides at 5961 Spikerush Trail. Her
main concern is safety, especially for kids. She has lived here for sixteen
years and would have never thought it would grow as it has. The side streets
seemed dangerous before, but more so now with the construction. Southport is a
wonderful community, but we must keep it safe. She thinks that the speed limits
should be lowered to twenty miles per hour. She likened the yacht basin area to
a festival. Her suggested slogan was, “Slow down; it’s Southport.”
Lastly, Judy Tharp, resident of 230 River Drive, was asked to speak to the
Board. Her husband handed out a PowerPoint to the Board members. Her focus was
primarily on the Yacht Basin area. She explained that she and her husband fell
in love with the yacht basin area years ago. There are 4-5 iconic venues in
that area. Many people complain about the tourists and pedestrians in the area,
but that road looks more like a walking path than a road. She remembers
occasions before the Covid pandemic when tour buses would drop people off at
the yacht basin area. Adequate parking is an issue, too. People often park
along Brunswick Street. But then they are in danger of slipping off into the
marsh. When Bay Street and Yacht Basin Drive were made into a one-way road,
traffic increased onto Brunswick Street.
Mrs. Tharp has several suggestions that she and her husband feel would benefit
that area. First, she thinks Moore Street should be made into a one-way street.
That would make a loop and would probably reduce the number of one-way
violators. Ms. Tharp also stated that “No Thru Traffic” signs should be
installed on Brunswick Avenue. And finally, she suggests marketing the yacht
basin area as an official scenic old yacht basin that encourages pedestrian
traffic primarily. She said that the area’s natural beauty should be showcased.
Ms. Tharp thanked the Board for the opportunity to speak.
There was no one else who requested to speak.
G)    Adjourn
Mayor Hatem thanked everyone for attending and participating in the meeting. He
said that the City would be working on compiling all of the presented
information and would start implementing the plans as soon as possible.
After a motion by Alderman Lombardi and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller,
the Mayor adjourned the meeting at 7:06 p.m. All ayes.
 
                     ____________________________________
                     Joseph P. Hatem, M.D., M.P.H.
                     Mayor, City of Southport
____________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
SEPTEMBER 9, 2021
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING SEPTEMBER 9, 2021
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
6:00 p.m.
Present:    Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor Pro Tem Karen Mosteller, Aldermen
Thomas Lombardi, Lora Sharkey, Lowe Davis, Marc Spencer, and John Allen.
Staff Present:   Gordon Hargrove, City Manager
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
   Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
   Thomas Lloyd, Developmental Services Director
   Randy Jones, Communications/Tourism Director
   Allayna Dail, Community Building and Communications Staff
   Heather Hemphill, Parks and Recreation Director
   Kate Marshall, Animal Control
   Todd Coring, Police Chief
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   Ralph Treadway, EMS Battalion Chief
Others Present: Tish Hatem, Richard Alt, Robert Carroll, Rebecca Kelly, Matthew
Lawrence, State Representative Charlie Miller, NCDOT representatives Caitlin
Marks and Chad Kimes, Woody Wilson with the Southport Lions Club, and many
other interested citizens in attendance.
Meetings are now open to the public. Full audio/video is available on the
City's website or can be requested from the City Clerk's office.
A.)
Call to order by Mayor Joseph P. Hatem at 6:04 p.m. and welcomed everyone to
the meeting.
B.)
Mayor Hatem announced that Fire Chief Charles Drew would be giving the
invocation.
C.)
Everyone joined Mayor Hatem in reciting the Pledge of Allegiance.
D.) Public Comment:
Mayor Hatem asked if those present to speak about streetlights would consider
addressing the Board at the workshop that will be scheduled. The first was
Richard Alt, who resides at 6165 Cottage Creek Road. Mr. Alt praised the Board,
Mayor, and Chief Drew for including a proclamation in remembrance of September
11 th.
The next speaker was Matthew Lawrence. He moved to Southport about four years
ago and resides in Smithville Woods. Over the last three years, he has logged
almost 7500 miles on his bike. He stated that Robert Ruark Drive is a state
road but only twenty feet wide. He is concerned that the road will not sustain
all of the additional trips that Osprey Landing will generate. He also wanted
to make sure that the secondary entrance for Osprey Landing would be used for
emergencies only. He was also worried that the heavy equipment used for Osprey
Landing would tear up Southport Way. In addition, there is an additional 1200
homes planned in the Indigo area. He hopes that the NCDOT reviews all of the
plans more thoroughly before issuing an approval.
E.) Approval of Agenda:
Mayor Hatem stated that the Episcopal Church item regarding a land swap was
being postponed because it needs to be reviewed by the Planning Board first. A
proclamation for Constitution week was being added. After a motion was made by
Alderman Lombardi and   seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller, the agenda was
approved with the two changes. All ayes. Motion carried.   
Mayor Joseph P. Hatem read the ethics statement.
Mayor Hatem read through the list of items on the Consent Agenda.
F.) Approval of Consent Agenda
   1.   Minutes Regular Board of Aldermen Meeting August 12, 2021
   2.   Minutes Special Board of Aldermen Meeting August 31, 2021
A motion was made by Alderman Allen and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller to
approve the consent agenda. All ayes. Motion carried.
G. Special Recognition:
Mayor Hatem welcomed State Representative Charlie Miller to the meeting and
Caitlin Marks and Chad Kimes with the NCDOT.
   1.   Lora Sharkey read through the Proclamation in Recognition of the Adopt-
a-Highway and the Coastal Clean-Up programs. Several participants stood at the
front for recognition.
   2.   Mayor Hatem read the proclamation for the 20 th anniversary of
September 11, 2001.
   3.   Mayor Hatem read the proclamation in remembrance of the P.O.W.’s and
Missing in Action.
   4.   Mayor Hatem invited Woody Wilson up to the podium to represent the
Lion’s Club. The Mayor read the proclamation in celebration of 75 years of
service from the Southport Lions Club.
H.) Agenda
   1.
   Mayor Hatem invited Chad Kimes from the NCDOT to address the Board with
project updates and information about the CASSI program. Caitlin Marks
distributed a packet of materials. Alderman Davis asked if the materials were
available to the public, and Mr. Kimes said they would be made available soon.
Mr. Kimes explained the process for project selection. He reviewed several
ongoing and funded projects that will take place soon. NCDOT is currently
working to improve the flow of traffic moving away from Oak Island. Portions of
NC-211 will be made into a 4-lane road. US-16 Highway will have a lot of
improvements throughout Brunswick County to South Carolina. Two bridges on NC-
133 will be replaced to help alleviate flooding.
   CASSI is a fully electric trolley that can be programmed for specific
routes. It has been tested out at Kill Devil Hills, and Southport is another
possible testing site. The trolley will host 5-6 people comfortably. Alderman
Davis asked if the route could be changed once it had been programmed. Mr.
Kimes stated that it could be changed. He said that there were a few things to
figure out first. A 20% match would be required from the City. Currently, CASSI
is restrictive. The trolley can only make right turns and has a low maximum
speed. There is a two-foot sensor buffer around the trolley, so branches and
limbs must be cleared along the route. Alderman Lombardi asked if there were
any plans to install electric car charging stations. Mr. Kimes stated that he
was not able to answer that question. If Southport participates in the trolley
test, it would likely run from November through January.
   Mr. Kimes stated that two areas were identified as needing crosswalks-Davis
and Moore Streets. There are two possibilities moving forward. Concrete bump-
outs are better for pedestrians but cost around $124,000. The other option is
to paint the crosswalks without the bump-outs. That option is around $15,000.
If the City wants to move forward with the concrete bump-outs, the project will
have to wait for funding. Page 32 of the handout is the contact information for
NCDOT. Mr. Kimes said that Board members are welcome to contact Caitlin or
himself any time. Mr. Kimes also provided his cell number. He said that
Brunswick County is one of the fastest-growing counties in the state. Ms.
Rebecca Kelly asked if it was safe to have both of our major thoroughfares be
closed at the same time? Mr. Kimes said that the NCDOT would plan and plan for
any possible evacuations. Mr. Kimes said that they would meet with the City to
discuss any plans regarding the subdivisions that have been discussed. Mr.
Kimes also explained that “letting” means to go out for bids.
   Mayor Hatem thanked Mr. Kimes and Ms. Marks for attending the meeting and
providing updates.
   2.
   Mr. Hargrove stated that the City staff would like to finance the entire
cost of the two fire trucks with Truist. Truist is offering 1.42% interest for
five years. The total being financed is $824,210.00. After a motion made by
Alderman Allen and seconded by Alderman Spencer, the Board adopted the
Resolution in Support of the Financing terms with Truist, as presented. All
ayes. Motion carried .
   3.
   Mayor Hatem stated that next on the agenda was the Development Agreement
with Osprey Landing. The site plan and rezoning have already been approved.
This development agreement addressed utility connections and annexation
periods. Mayor Hatem opened the public hearing at 7:13 p.m. Mr. Thomas Lloyd
explained that this type of agreement is expected in projects this size.
Agreements can be a good tool for all parties involved. The development
agreement lists the uses that are entitlements on the property, establishes an
expiration date. Voluntary annexation is required within (30) days from when
the final plat is approved and recorded. The deadline for all of Phase 1 to be
recorded is June 2022.
   Attorney Mike Isenberg reiterated that the agreement has nothing to do with
density, layouts, etc. The developer has (12) years for complete build-out. The
County will provide water and sewer, but the City will get the tax base.
Alderman Allen asked what options the City has if they fail to file for
annexation? Mr. Isenberg stated that they would breach the contract, and we
could force the annexation by asking for an injunction. The agreement is a
legal contract. The only actual cost to the developer is if a lot isn’t sold,
they will be responsible for the taxes. Alderman Allen stated that the
developer has (15) years for build-out. And Mr. Isenberg stated that the
developer could also break the phases into smaller phases if needed. Mr.
Isenberg also stated that the development would be connected to the sewer line
on Howe Street. The Mayor closed the public hearing at 7:24 p.m. The agreement
was arranged between the developers and their attorney and the City staff and
attorneys. Alderman Sharkey commented that this agreement provides more
oversight than they usually get. Alderman Davis stated that she had not been a
fan of this project or the impacts on the adjacent neighborhoods from the
beginning. The developer made it clear that they were unwilling to work with
the City on traffic impacts, alternate ingress/egress, setbacks, and buffers.
She is voting in favor of the agreement now only because she thinks that it is
the only way to make the best of a bad situation, and it will lessen the cost
for the City and increase tax revenue. After a motion made by Alderman Sharkey
and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller, the Board approved the Development
Agreement with Vanguard Farms/Osprey Landing. All ayes. Motion carried.
   4.
   Gordon Hargrove explained that at the last Board meeting, staff was asked to
review the penalty applied to 6099 Turtlewood Drive and make a recommendation
to the Board. The Crumplers were assessed a penalty of $4000 based on removing
trees and vegetation without obtaining a permit in advance. Mr. Hargrove
explained three options: eliminate the fine, reduce the fine or leave the fine
as it stands. The permit process was delayed for a few days because the
permitting software was not working. But the Crumplers didn’t try to obtain a
permit until City staff issued a violation. The Crumpler’s have already paid
the fine, but the check was not deposited because they appealed the penalty.
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller offered the following comments:
“In the UDO, article 2.6 B 2 regarding the zoning permit process clearly
states, it shall be unlawful to commence site preparation or excavation for the
construction of any building, including site disturbance and tree removal until
a zoning permit has been issued.
Under the Tree Protection and Landscape Preservation section, Article 3.18 B
states that part of the purpose of tree protection is to prevent the
indiscriminate removal of trees.
Clearly, a violation was committed, and there must be consequences for clearing
a lot and removing trees without a permit.
The UDO was updated last year to provide safeguards and consequences because
the originally adopted tree ordinance language fell short. Under the old
language, when a vacant lot was cleared and trees were removed without a
permit, the fine was only $100. Not much of a consequence. One developer
cleared three lots right after Hurricane Florence and was fined $300.
I certainly appreciate the frustrations that can be associated with building a
new house however, work must not be done without the required approvals and
permits.
I thank staff for the detailed summary of the events, and I support staff’s
decision to enforce the ordinance.”
   Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller thanked the Manager for the detailed summary and
made a motion to support the decision to uphold the ordinance. Alderman Davis
and Alderman Lombardi seconded the motion. Alderman Allen suggested reducing
the fee to $3,000. Ms. Mosteller said that issues arise all the time, but the
ordinance should be upheld. Alderman Davis commented that Southport has an
excellent tree protection ordinance. There might have been only two or three
trees removed in this instance, but they still should’ve waited for the permit
first. During the last meeting, the owner “asked for forgiveness.” Alderman
Davis suggested that was an admission of guilt. Alderman Spencer made a motion
to waive the fee entirely. There was no second made. Alderman Spencer stated
that it is interesting that people can buy a property but don’t own it. He said
that property rights get stepped on every day. Alderman Davis said, “That did
not make any sense to her because that would mean we would not have any
zoning.” Alderman Spencer did not reply. The Mayor asked for a vote for who was
in favor of leaving the penalty in place, as it was issued. All ayes except for
Alderman Spencer. Motion carried 5-1.
   5.
   City Manager Gordon Hargrove reminded the Board about the request to reduce
System Development Fees for the dry storage building proposed at the marina.
The original calculation was $63,000, but that was calculated as a wet slip
area. City staff met with McGill and Associates, who recalculated the fee based
on a transportation hub with two people per unit. The proposed fees are now
$15,930.00. Alderman Allen asked if their sprinkler system was included in the
calculation. Mr. Hargrove stated that there was no way to include it because we
don’t include it for other users. Mike Isenberg stated that the original amount
was not correct and that the engineer and staff that were involved all
recommended using the $15,900. After a motion made by Alderman Sharkey and
seconded by Alderman Allen, the Board approved the revised System Development
Fee of $15,900.00 for the marina’s proposed dry storage building. All ayes
except for Alderman Davis. Motion carried 5-1.
   6.
   Alderman Davis stated that the Forestry Committee had received two
applications for appointment. Interviews were conducted. Both candidates were
impressive, but the Committee would like to recommend that the Board appoint
Jerry Donaldson. He expressed more depth of knowledge and policies. The
Committee would also like to reappoint Peg Ingalls for a new term . After a
motion made by Alderman Davis and seconded by Alderman Lombardi, the Board
appointed Jerry Donaldson to the Forestry Committee and Peg Ingalls to a new
term with the Forestry Committee. All ayes. Motion carried.  
   7.
   Mayor Hatem explained that the next item for consideration is a resolution
exploring a merger between County and City utilities. Mayor Hatem said that he
favored regionalization instead of the City building a new wastewater facility.
Gordon Hargrove added that the resolution would support our application for
grants to further study a merger's feasibility. The City needs to improve our
system to the point that the County will take over and possibly assume the debt
associated with improvements that the City has tied up in the system. Alderman
Allen asked how likely it would be that Southport would be awarded a grant. Mr.
Hargrove said that he is under the impression that as long as we get everything
turned in on time, it is a slam dunk. After a motion by Alderman Allen and
seconded by Alderman Lombardi, the Board adopted the Resolution in Support of
Exploring a Merger of City and County Utilities, as presented. All ayes. Motion
carried.
Committee Reports
Alderman Allen and Alderman Spencer stated that they had no Committee reports
to review.
Alderman Sharkey stated that the Rate committee is meeting on September 14 th .
Alderman Davis stated that the Forestry Committee is meeting on September 14 th
at the Indian Trail Meeting Hall. She invited the public to attend to see what
they were working on. Alderman Lombardi reported that the Beautification
Committee met that past Saturday for their monthly cleaning and staining. They
installed four anchors in concrete to hold the boat in place. They will also
cut a hole to keep it from floating away if Southport gets a lot of rain.
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller reported:
“During the public discussion about streetlights at the last meeting, it was
decided that we would plan a street light policy workshop for a more in-depth
look at the proposed draft policy.
Some may know that Brunswick Electric had previously set up a demonstration in
the Hammocks neighborhood before the last meeting; however, Brunswick Electric
re-located the P-30 3000 kelvin light in the line up to a different
neighborhood.
We can all agree that street lighting is a design element that is very
important to the look and feel. And to make the future street light workshop
more productive, before the workshop, the city will create a new demonstration
that includes three light fixtures; all P-20 model fixtures in different color
temperatures 4000, 3000k, and 2700 kelvin.
The demonstration will be an opportunity for citizens to evaluate the same
fixtures with varying color temperatures for input to help finalize the policy
selection. The city had to order two of the lights as they are not stocked by
Brunswick Electric, and the delivery will be about six weeks.
As soon as the demo lights are installed, the city will notify the website to
let us know the location. Once the demonstration is active, we can then
schedule the workshop.
In the meantime, citizens may reach out to Alderman Davis, Alderman Sharkey, or
myself with any questions or concerns regarding streetlight policy.”
The Parks and Recreation Committee is planning the children’s fishing
tournament for ages 16 and under. There will be prizes and lunch will be
served. Please mark your calendars for October 8 th . The Addams Family will be
showing on the Garrison lawn at dusk.
Manager's Report
Mr. Hargrove explained that Southport was listed as a distressed unit for many
years, but now with the hard work of Melanie Trexler and her staff, the Local
Government Commission has taken off of that list.
Everyone is thankful that Howe Street is open again. Repaving will take place
in approximately six months. Staff is already trying to plan for that and are
considering paving at night for less impact.
The Bay Street riprap project is complete. The shoreline is more like a
fortress now, but the road was damaged and needed to be repaved. City staff
will look for ways to fund the repaving.
A new project will begin soon. Brunswick Street is in dire need of riprap and
shoreline strengthening. The project will require a road closure, and the plan
is to reverse the traffic on Brunswick Alley for a few days. The information
will be sent through Southport Connected, and staff will knock on doors to let
the public know.
Mayor's Comments
Mayor Hatem praised the City staff for the completion of the Howe Street
project. The Town workshop to discuss transportation took place on August 31 st
and was successful. A workshop to discuss the Yacht Basin area will be
scheduled soon. The crab derby over the Labor Day holiday was a big success and
a lot of fun.
Mayor Hatem recently attended an American Rescue Plan seminar to discuss how
the funding could be used.
Mayor Hatem stated that the pandemic is one for the unvaccinated. The Delta
variant is much more transmissible. The R-O factor is the number of people that
one person can infect. The original Covid-19 virus was 1:3 people. The Delta
variant is 1-8.5 people. The people going to the Emergency Room are typically
younger, unvaccinated people who have trouble breathing.
The September 11 th memorial is scheduled for the upcoming Saturday.
Board Comments
Alderman Allen stated that recently he had read or heard rumors about projects
going on in the City. Some of these comments are statements like, “we are led
to believe that the Board might vote on the streetlight policy,” etc. The
minutes from the last month’s meeting clearly state that he requested
additional meetings and workshops to understand what was being proposed. The
phrase “led to believe” implies nefarious behavior, which is inaccurate. He
also addressed an article that stated the City Board needed to have a vision
plan beyond the Universal Development Plan. He said that the Unified
Development Ordinances are merely our land-use regulations. The CAMA Land Use
Plan is also a document that the City uses to help formulate goals and plans
for the future. Alderman Allen said that he was also disgusted by comparing the
tragedy of September 11 th and the Howe Street sewer project. There are
inherent conditions involved with digging up a hundred-year-old sewer line. And
the project was going to be an inconvenience no matter when it was done.
Alderman Allen reminded everyone that we are just beginning to work on a long-
range waterline project, but we don’t have funding yet. He also wanted to
remind everyone that having utility lines under a road is not a strange notion.
Alderman Spencer stated that he enjoyed the ElectriCities conference. One of
the presentations was about electric charging stations. He urged the Board and
public to be aware of what was coming. He said that his father would never
believe that a car could drive around Southport without a driver! Alderman
Spencer remarked that Southport needs a foundation of economic development
without tourists’ dollars. He is excited about the future, not afraid of it.
Recently, Alderman Spencer met with his 90-year-old advisor. They talked about
how people just don’t care about each other anymore. So many situations could
be made better with good communication. He commented that being a Board member
is a privileged position, and the candidates should behave like statesmen.
Alderman Sharkey commented that September 11 th should be recognized as a
national day of service, not just a remembrance of the tragedy. There are
plenty of ways to help the community-trash collection, food banks, etc. She
urged people to do something positive instead of focusing on sadness. Alderman
Sharkey stated that tonight was another example of how staff comes through on
the Board's policies. Policymakers need to be careful not to get in the way of
staff as they do their jobs.
Alderman Davis said that she wore a Friends of the Library t-shirt to the
meeting and wore it backward to draw attention to the needs of the library.
Library funding is so low that it closes early and is closed on the weekends
because they can’t afford to staff. The Friends of the Library store is a
significant fundraiser for the library and a great place to find a gift. On a
different topic, Alderman Davis remarked that her seminary in New York dropped
everything and offered prayers and support during the September 11 th attacks.
As she remembers, people were crying and asking where God was during the
attacks. It was apparent to her that God was there during the response to
September 11 th . So many people gave their lives to help others and came
together as one nation to provide support for those affected.
Alderman Lombardi thanked Alderman Allen for his comments and thanked the
public for attending.
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller thanked everyone for attending.
Mayor Hatem closed by saying that they are a transparent Board. We are unified.
The information from the meetings is online, and the meetings are streamed. It
takes time, but Southport is moving towards it.
After a motion made by Alderman Lombardi and seconded by Alderman Spencer, the
Mayor adjourned the Board meeting at 8:43 p.m. All ayes. Motion carried.
                        ___________________________________
                        Joseph P. Hatem, M.D., M.P.H.
________________________________         Mayor, City of Southport
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk   
OCTOBER 12, 2021
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING OCTOBER 12, 2021
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:   Mayor Joseph P. Hatem
   Mayor Pro-
tem Karen Mosteller; Aldermen Lora Sharkey, Lowe Davis, John Allen,
Marc Spencer, and Tom Lombardi
STAFF PRESENT:
   Gordon Hargrove, City Manager
   Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
   Thomas Lloyd, Development Services Director
   Tom Stanley, Public Services Director Todd Coring, Police Chief
   Ralph Treadway, EMS Battalion Chief Randy Jones, Tourism & Comm. Director
   Kate Marshall, Animal Protective Services
OTHERS PRESENT: Robert Carroll, Tish Hatem, Rebecca Kelly, Vickie Potter,
Rhonda Davis, Paul, Marie Swenson, and many family
members and other concerned citizens.
A.)   Call to Order
Mayor Hatem called the special meeting to order at 6:02 p.m. He explained that
this special meeting was scheduled to discuss and receive citizen input on the
pedestrian corridor in the Yacht Basin area.
B.)   Invocation
Alderman Lowe Davis gave the invocation.
C.)   Pledge of Allegiance
Mayor Hatem led everyone in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D.)   Approval of Agenda
Mayor Hatem said there was no need to discuss the additional
committee recommendations at this meeting, but otherwise, the agenda would
remain the same. After a motion made by Alderman Allen and seconded by Alderman
Lombardi, the agenda was approved with the change as presented.
E.)   Town Hall/Workshop Agenda
   1.
   Mayor Hatem summarized that there are two options for a pedestrian
walkway. Option A places the walkway on the land side, and Option B is on the
waterside. Alderman Allen was asked to lead the discussions. He said that the
committee was a mix of property owners, citizens, himself, and Mayor Pro-tem
Mosteller. The committee identified problems and current conditions at the
Yacht Basin. While they realized that the plan would never be perfect for
everyone, they developed reasonable solutions. Their focus was on
traffic patterns and safety.
   The committee was in consensus with some elements. They agreed that Yacht
Basin Drive and Bay Street should remain one-way streets. The pedestrian
walkway is essential, and the City should take full advantage of its existing
20-foot right of way. The committee also agreed to use thermoplastic markings,
build a raised planting area on Moore Street, add lighting, and reduce the
speed limit. Alderman Allen explained that Option A utilizes the current one-
way traffic pattern, but Bay Street would have to shift a bit to meet
Yacht Basin Drive. At the intersection of Bay St. and Yacht Basin Dr., the
pedestrian walkway would shift from waterside to landside. Option B would be
the same expect the pedestrian walkway would continue on the waterside through
the Yacht Basin area.
Option B would require more improvements at that intersection.
   Alderman Allen stated that both plans are approximately the same cost. At
some point in the past, the right of way was paved about 4-feet from where it
should be. That will have to be addressed when improvements are made.
   Mayor Hatem asked Police Chief Coring to talk about when and why the traffic
pattern was changed about a year ago. Chief Coring stated that a restaurant
owner suggested the one-way traffic pattern at the Yacht Basin. Bay Street was
made a one-way road for a while. When the traffic went back to normal, the
public contacted the Police Department and preferred the one-way traffic
pattern. The majority of people enter Bay Street and ride the length of the
street towards the Yacht Basin. Mayor Hatem commented that in May 2020,
City officials were concerned about crowding and waiting for restaurants. They
even considered closing a portion of Bay Street. Chief Coring said that it is a
complex area to navigate. He is grateful that there have not been any injuries
at the Yacht Basin, only some fender benders. Some people have requested to
completely close Yacht Basin drive to vehicle traffic, but that would make it
too difficult for people who are disabled to access the area. Chief Coring said
that as a reminder, anytime there is standing water on the road, drivers have
the legal authority to stop and turn around regardless of the
traffic pattern. Safety is first.
   Alderman Sharkey asked if the committee considered having the pedestrian
walkway on the landside beginning at the intersection of Caswell, so the road
would be open for vehicles towards the restaurants. Alderman Allen stated that
the committee considered every option. The biggest challenge is that the
sidewalk on Bay Street is on the waterside. Alderman Sharkey asked about the
status of the parking overlay district. Alderman Allen said that the committee
is still working to develop a plan. A resident who is a landscape architect is
currently working on a plan; and the concept continues to evolve.
   Alderman Davis said that she was glad to see that the City was seeking input
from the community. She suggested that the City reach out to a transportation
expert at a state university for assistance. Sometimes these situations seem
like unsolvable problems. She said that it is incredible that we have gotten
this far without any pedestrian accidents.
   She is very interested to hear what the public has to say. Alderman Allen
said that he hoped that one benefit of
having the parking overlay district would be to pull traffic off of Yacht
Basin Drive.
   Alderman Lombardi said that he thinks the pedestrian walkway should be
placed on the waterside. He suggested changing traffic so that people on Moore
Street have to turn right instead of continuing towards Fishy Fishy Café. That
would reduce traffic from people who are just driving through. The pedestrian
walkway would be striped but level with the road. Alderman Allen stated that
the City would not have to acquire any new right-of-way. Mayor Pro-tem
Mosteller said that Alderman Allen had done a great job presenting the
information. She wants to emphasize that the City will take full
advantage of our existing rights-of-way.
   Mayor Hatem asked Gordon Hargrove to speak about the funding for this
project.
Mr. Hargrove stated that during the last budget meeting, the Board created
a Capital Projects Ordinance. This year there was approximately $125,000
allocated for this project. Mr. Hargrove said that the options range in price,
but staff is just waiting for the Board to decide.
   Alderman Allen said that he wanted to point out that the first two projects
listed in the Capital Project Ordinance were already completed.
F.)   Public Comment
   1.   Paul Swenson, 
   who resides at 107 N. Atlantic Avenue, approached the podium to comment. He
is also the owner of Provision Company, a restaurant at the Yacht Basin. He
said that the current situation is the price of success. During the high
season, there are probably
3000 people that visit a day. There is no simple solution. He and his family have been there for thirty
years. He doesn’t know of any pedestrians that have been hit or even any
accidents.
The blessing is that there are so many pedestrians that the vehicles cannot move very quickly. Mr. Swenson
suggested that the City have the Yacht Basin area surveyed to identify the
right-of- way correctly. He has seen the clay sewer pipes, and they are not
going to last forever. He said that the sewer line could be replaced at the
same time as the pedestrian walkway was installed. He would like to see the Bay
St. 10-feet wide, but people will walk in the road regardless. Mr. Swenson
suggested that the City add 2-3” of paving to help prevent the road from
flooding. And he would also like to see the walkway concrete or more than just
using striping. He also suggested the City install some solar lights. Mr. Swenson said that he doesn’t think
the City has enough money to do this project the best way; these improvements
will be a band-aid.
   2.   Maria Swenson,
   who also resides at 107 N. Atlantic Avenue, approached the podium. She said
that she thinks the City treats the Yacht Basin businesses like a “red-headed
stepchild.” The Yacht Basin is a huge moneymaker for the City. She said
that even more problems would develop with the landside walkway. There are
stormwater issues. Mrs. Swenson said that she
does appreciate what the community has done and that the Aldermen are considering improvements. The City is
growing, and we need to grow forward with positive changes.
   Mayor Hatem agreed that the infrastructure has to be in
place to support the businesses in the Yacht Basin.
   3.   Debbie Barnes,
   who resides at 425 W. West Street, prefers the walkway on the waterside. She
said that putting in a walkway doesn’t mean that people are going to use it.
She
would like to see some painted crosswalks in the area. Mrs. Barnes suggested changing the direction of
traffic in the Yacht Basin. She said that people can’t turn left to go back
towards
the restaurants when people travel down Moore Street. When drivers have to turn right and go all the back around, they tend to get frustrated. There are a lot of pedestrians on Brunswick Street. Between
Short Street and the marina, there is a 20-foot-wide roadway and there aren’t
places for people to step off the road to make room for vehicular traffic.
She suggests sending the one-
way traffic pattern in the other direction. Then vehicles from Moore Street could take a left and drive past all
of the restaurants. There is more visibility at Bay Street for traffic signs
indicating one- way traffic. There is also flooding at the Yacht
Basin. It is safer for the drivers and pedestrians if traffic shifts to the
other direction.
Mayor Hatem said that he now sees that there are more options. The one thing
they want to do is to preserve the existing heritage and businesses in the
Yacht Basin. Alderman
Lombardi asked if there was an accurate survey of the area? Gordon Hargrove stated that Tidewater
Surveying will put markers out for now, and we could get a complete
survey done. Alderman Davis remarked about how expensive surveys are. Alderman Allen
said that the Board needs to figure out what they want to do first and then the
survey. He added that there are probably areas in the Yacht Basin that have eroded and muddied along the way,
making it impossible to figure out ownership.
Alderman Sharkey suggested that once a consensus is made, at least the striping
should be done in time for spring, even if the City can’t afford the whole
project at one time. Mr. Hargrove asked Tom Stanley to speak on that topic.
Public Services Director Tom Stanley said that thermoplastic striping is
expensive. He suggests that the Board should definitely decide which plan they
want first, so the money isn’t wasted.
In terms of a timeline, Mayor Hatem said the project wouldn’t start until after
the
wooden boat show. We will come back together during a Board meeting with another public comment period before making a decision. But we would like to have it open before the springtime and tourist season.
G.)   Adjourn
Mayor Hatem thanked everyone for attending and participating in the meeting. He
said that the City would decide what is best for the community and get it
right.
After a motion by Alderman Sharkey and seconded by Alderman Allen, the Mayor adjourned the meeting
at 7:10 p.m. All ayes. Motion carried.
 
                        ___________________________________
                        Joseph P. Hatem, M.D., M.P.H.
________________________________         Mayor, City of Southport
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk   
OCTOBER 14, 2021
REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR SESSION MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING OCTOBER 14, 2021
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
6:00 p.m.
Present:    Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor Pro Tem Karen Mosteller, Aldermen
Thomas Lombardi, Lora Sharkey, Lowe Davis, Marc Spencer, and John Allen.
Staff Present:   Gordon Hargrove, City Manager
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
   Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
   Thomas Lloyd, Developmental Services Director
   Randy Jones, Communications/Tourism Director
   Allayna Dail, Community Building and Communications Staff
   Heather Hemphill, Parks and Recreation Director
   Kate Marshall, Animal Control
   Todd Coring, Police Chief
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   Ralph Treadway, EMS Battalion Chief
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
   Teresa Jones, Tax Collector/Finance Specialist
   Teresa Parker, Payroll and Benefits Specialist
   Angie Bates, Accounts Payable Tech
   Brandon Stevens, Utility Billing
   Kaity Boyd, Accounting Technician, and FEMA Coordinator
Others Present: Tish Hatem, Richard Alt, Robert Carroll, Rebecca Kelly, Vickie
Potter, Reverend Gene Tomlinson, Wendy Douglas, and many other interested
citizens.
Meetings are now open to the public. Complete audio/video is available on the
City's website or can be requested from the City Clerk's office.
A.)
Call to order by Mayor Joseph P. Hatem at 6:00 p.m. and welcomed everyone to
the meeting.
B.)
Mayor Hatem announced Reverend Gene Tomlinson would give the invocation. His
father Eugene Tomlinson served as the Mayor of Southport for many years, about
fifty-sixty years ago. Mr. Thomas said that there is a lot of change in
Southport, and many people are moving here from out of town. He spoke about the
working class of fishermen from years ago and how proud he is to be from
Southport. He asked for blessings for those in attendance and prayed for the
family of a public works employee who had just passed away. Reverend Gene
Tomlinson
C.)
Everyone joined Mayor Hatem in reciting the Pledge of Allegiance.
D.)   Public Comment:
Wendy Douglas, who resides in Rivermist, asked if anyone knew of any plans or
information about the survey markers that recently appeared on J Swain Blvd.
The Mayor asked Thomas Lloyd to approach the podium to address her questions.
Because Alderman Lombardi had already reached out to Mr. Lloyd, and NCDOT was
contacted. As of today, NCDOT stated that there had been no permits issued in
that area. Ms. Douglas was concerned that plans would be approved during
election season. Ms. Douglas asked if Rivermist would be contacted before
decisions were made. Mayor Hatem and Thomas Lloyd also explained that NCDOT has
authority on that road because it is a state road.
Mayor Joseph P. Hatem read the ethics statement.
Mayor Hatem stated that he forgot to have the agenda approved. After a motion
made by Alderman Sharkey and a seconded by Alderman Lombardi, the agenda was
approved as presented. Motion carried. All ayes.
Mayor Hatem read through the list of items on the Consent Agenda.
E.)   Approval of Consent Agenda
   1.   Minutes Regular Board of Aldermen Meeting September 9, 2021
   2.   Authorization for Pump Station Generator Purchase.
   3.   Resolution approving the designation of a police vehicle as surplus.
A motion was made by Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller and seconded by Alderman Lombardi
to approve the consent agenda. Motion carried. All ayes.
F.)   Special Recognition:
Mayor Hatem stated that he would move the introduction of the new police
officers to the beginning of the Special Recognition.
   1.   Chief Coring asked the new officers to approach the podium. He
introduced the two full-time officers: Kelly Garrido and Kevin Doherty. He also
introduced Amanda Cox, who will be working part-time. Chief Coring stated that
the Police Department was fully staffed now.
   2.   Mayor Hatem asked Frank Poplars to come to the podium. The Mayor read
the plaque and thanked him for his many years of service on the Board of
Adjustment. Frank Popelars thanked everyone for all the support over the years.
He said that he and his wife reside in the ETJ, but they will continue to enjoy
all that Southport offers.
   3.   Mayor Hatem read the Proclamation in Recognition of Breast cancer
Awareness Month. He also mentioned that both he and Alderman Allen had lost
their mothers due to breast cancer.
   4.   Mayor Hatem stated that National Emergency Nurses Week is a subject
close to his heart. Our nurses do an excellent job and have had to work under
such extreme circumstances.
   5.   He read the proclamation to honor emergency nurses
   6.   Next, Mayor Hatem asked the John N. Smith Cemetery Committee members to
come to the podium as he read their names. He read the proclamation to
celebrate the John N. Smith Cemetery Museum opening. The event is scheduled for
Saturday, October 16, 2021, at 10:00 a.m. The audience stood and clapped.
   7.   National Colonial Heritage month is October. Mayor Hatem read a
proclamation written by the Lord Craven chapter of the National Society of
Colonial Dames.
   8.   City Manager, Gordon Hargrove, asked the members of the Finance
Department to approach the podium. As he called their names out, they raised
their hand. Not too long ago, the City was identified as a distressed unit.
Through the Finance Department's due diligence and hard work, the City is being
removed from that listing. Mr. Hargrove said that it makes him very proud to
see rising to the challenge.
G.)   Agenda
   1.
   Alderman Sharkey asked Allayna Dail to approach the podium to discuss the
proposed rate changes for the community building. Alderman Sharkey said that
the rates were discussed before the pandemic. Allayna Dail has done a lot of
research and presented the information to the rate committee. The rate
committee is made up of Alderman John Allen, Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller, and
herself. Alderman Sharkey read through the slides from the presentation. She
reiterated that the overall building goals would help dictate the rates for the
building. Sundays will no longer be available for hourly use. Rentals will now
be in a 12-hour block. “In-City” rates are defined as taxpayers. Weddings are
required to book a 12-hour block. Alderman Sharkey read through some
neighboring communities’ rental rates for comparison. Even with the proposed
rate increases, Southport is still less expensive than Oak Island. Alderman
Sharkey said that Allayna Dail has scheduled the buildings’ first-ever wedding
show in February. She is working on putting advertisements out on the internet.
Alderman Davis asked if the deck was included in the 12-hour wedding rental
agreement? Ms. Dail said that the deck was included. Alderman Spencer said that
people who live outside of the City solicit residents to rent the building for
them to save money. Ms. Dail stated that an application is used for each
rental. The renter has to provide a copy of a recent tax bill that is paid or a
copy of an executed lease agreement with a property. As presented, Alderman
Sharkey made a motion to approve the rate changes for the community building
and the ordinance amendment to amend the City of Southport’s schedule of fees.
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller seconded. All ayes. Motion carried.  
   2.
   The next item was presented by the Development Services Director, Thomas
Lloyd. The Haven subdivision is requesting final plat approval. The property is
located at Burrington Avenue and Leonard Street. The lots comply and match the
preliminary play. Because the planned development is smaller, open space
requirements are not triggered. Infrastructure must be installed according to
all standards. The stormwater system meets specifications. The Public Works
Director, Development Services, and other staff have already conducted a site
visit and issued approvals. There were no Board questions. After a motion made
by Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller and seconded by Alderman Lombardi, the subdivision
was approved as presented on October 14, 2022. All ayes. Motion carried. 
   3.
   Mayor Hatem stated that the next item was a discussion about installing
crosswalks in the City. The subject was discussed at the September Board of
Aldermen meeting. At that time, NCDOT stated that they only had the financing
to pay for the painted crosswalks, not the bump-out crosswalks. Since then,
Mayor Hatem has spoken to Representative Charlie Miller. Mr. Miller has
promised funding to pay for the raised curbing plan. Chief Coring stated that
he noticed an increase in pedestrian traffic and vehicular traffic. He said
that he supports the crosswalks as shown in the drawings provided by NCDOT. He
can identify a few parking spaces that would have to be given up, but overall,
there are few, and the crosswalk would be much safer. Two areas are set for
crosswalks-the intersection of Howe Street and East and West West Streets.
Alderman Davis said that she didn’t feel comfortable deciding at this time. She
was hoping that the public would be able to see the proposed plans. Mr.
Hargrove reiterated that this is a proposed NCDOT engineered project and that
NCDOT is looking for the Board to vote. After a motion was made by Alderman
Allen and seconded by Alderman Sharkey to move forward with the project with
the bump-outs. All ayes. Motion carried.
Committee Reports
Alderman Allen reminded everyone that early voting started today. Because it is
a local election, it is only available at the Brunswick County Cooperative
Extension Building from today through Saturday, October 30 th .
Alderman Sharkey announced that the rate committee meeting was rescheduled
because a vital member lost a family member. The committee will schedule a
future date and advertise to discuss the water rates.
Alderman Spencer said that he appreciates serving on the ABC Board.
Alderman Davis stated that the Forestry Committee had met Wednesday, October 13
th . The Forestry Committee has written many articles and always set up a table
at the Wooden Boat Show.
Alderman Lombardi stated that the beautification committee completed their
cleanup last Saturday. He was pleased that they had a total of 32 volunteers,
and 10 were high school students. They spruced up the plants around the Board,
stained benches, and picnic tables.
Mayor Pro-tem Karen Mosteller announced that the Planning Board would be
meeting for their regular meeting time next Thursday. They will be discussing
possible updates for the tree ordinance. The Street Light Committee will
schedule another public meeting. In order to make the future street light
workshop more productive, prior to the workshop, the city will create a new
demonstration that includes three light fixtures; all P-20 model fixtures in
different color temperatures 4000, 3000 and 2700 kelvin. The demonstration will
be an opportunity for citizens to evaluate the same type fixtures with varying
color temperatures for input to help finalize the policy selection. The
manufacturer has given a delivery date of the middle of November for the demo
fixtures. In the meantime, any questions can be directed to Aldermen Davis,
Sharkey or Mayor ro-tem Mosteller. Parks and Recreation should be receiving the
NCDEQ Stormwater permit for Taylor Field Park around mid-November. On Friday,
October 22nd, there is a Halloween carnival at 5:00 p.m. at the Parks and
Recreation office. There is a costume contest, Halloween-themed games, and
crafts.
Manager's Report
Gordon Hargrove stated that Phase 2 of the City Dock should be permitted by
CAMA next week.
Mayor's Comments
Mayor Hatem said it was such a pleasure to wish his father-in-law a very Happy
Birthday. His father-in-law was born here in Southport in 1932.
The Southport Fire Department is hosting a fish fry on Friday, October 15 th .
Catfish plates are $10 each. On October 30 th , there is a ceremony of
remembrance for the River Pilots and their families. Mayor Hatem wished
everyone a Happy Halloween.
Staff Comments:
None
Board Comments
Alderman Allen didn’t have anything to add.
Alderman Sharkey reminded everyone about the Trunk or Treat event scheduled for
October 31, 2021, at the Southport Fire Department. The fire department is
still seeking donations of candy for that night. Alderman Sharkey said that she
had seen some neighborhood chatter online regarding a possible vote from the
Southport Board of Aldermen for Phase 2 of Indigo. She ensured the public that
it would never happen that way because of the Unified Development Ordinances
and the procedures to be followed. The application is first given to Thomas
Lloyd for review. The project also has to be approved by the Planning Board and
finally the Board of Aldermen. The developers who are working on Phase 2 of
Indigo are well aware of the requirements. She said that it won’t matter who
sits on the Board; the same rules will be followed.
Alderman Marc Spencer thanked Mr. Gene Thomas for mentioning Leonard Bradshaw
earlier. Another significant loss was of the former French teacher, Ms. Gore.
Mr. Spencer said that his mother had survived breast cancer for at least 25
years so far. Alderman Spencer said that City staff is the best; they are the
ones who get things done. He also thanked Gene Thomas for acknowledging
Southport’s working-class history. He is looking forward to the election.
Alderman Lowe Davis that she has received a lot of emails regarding Phase 2 of
Indigo. She suspects that it all started with a project representative. She
mentioned that the deck of the community building is usually busy, and what a
treasure it is to the community. The John N. Smith Cemetery Museum opening is
coming Saturday, October 16 th . There will be signs to explain who is buried
at specific locations and the older burial practices.
Alderman Lombardi didn’t have anything to add.
Mayor Pro-tem Karen Mosteller stated that Animal Protective Services is working
with Pawsability to accept pet food and supplies donations. There is a need for
at least 800 pounds of food this month alone. Donations are being collected on
the porch of the Indian Trail Meeting Hall. Purchases or donations may also be
made through Chewy or their Amazon wish list. The 5 th Annual Bowser Bash is
scheduled for Saturday, October 23 rd, on the Garrison lawn. Several stations
are planned to include a kissing booth, photo station, tricks for treats, and a
costume contest. There will be a raffle for prizes. The fun starts at 11:00
a.m. Ms. Mosteller pointed out that Alderman Lombardi constructed the kissing
booth.
Mayor Hatem remarked that the reports were excellent.
After a motion made by Alderman Allen and seconded by Alderman Lombardi, the
Mayor adjourned the Board meeting at 7:34 p.m. All ayes. Motion carried.
 
                        ___________________________________
                        Joseph P. Hatem, M.D., M.P.H.
________________________________         Mayor, City of Southport
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
NOVEMBER 11, 2021
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING NOVEMBER 11, 2021
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
6:00 p.m.
Present:    Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor Pro Tem Karen Mosteller, Aldermen
Thomas Lombardi, Lora Sharkey, Lowe Davis, Marc Spencer, and John Allen.
Staff Present:
   Gordon Hargrove, City Manager
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
   Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
   Thomas Lloyd, Developmental Services Director
   Randy Jones, Communications/Tourism Director
   Allayna Dail, Community Building and Communications Staff
   Heather Hemphill, Parks and Recreation Director
   Kate Marshall, Animal Control
   Todd Coring, Police Chief
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   Ralph Treadway, EMS Battalion Chief
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
Others Present:
   Tish Hatem,
   Richard Alt,
   Robert Carroll,
   Rebecca Kelly,
   Wendy Douglas,
   Tom Bednarzick,
   Debbie Evans,
   Will Hewitt,
   many veterans,
   and many other concerned citizens.
Meetings are now open to the public. Complete audio/video is available on the
City's website or can be requested from the City Clerk's office.
A.)
Mayor Joseph P. Hatem called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m. and welcomed
everyone to the meeting. He expressed gratitude for all of the veterans that
attended. He stated that there were special guests who would perform the
invocation and the oath of office.
B.)
Mayor Hatem announced that veteran Tom Bednarzik would be providing the
invocation.
C.)
Before the Pledge of Allegiance, Debbie Evans performed a solo of “God Bless
America.” And then Mayor Hatem lead the pledge of allegiance.
D.) Public Comment:
City Clerk Dorothy Dutton stated that two people had signed up to speak during
the public comment. The first was Wade Richardson, a resident in Smithfield
Woods. He expressed interest in the proposed kayak launch area near the marina.
He said it would be a great addition to the community, especially since the
marina has offered to help pay for it. City Manager Gordon Hargrove remarked
that the project was not funded this current budget year. Mr. Richardson asked
the Board to consider funding the project next year.
The next speaker was Rebecca Kelly. She first expressed her congratulations to
the incoming Board. Ms. Kelly also reiterated that Board members should act
with professionalism at all times. On the day of the election, there was an
issue at Bonnet Way with those citizens voting. The residents on that road did
not have the City’s candidates listed on their ballots. She and another
candidate went door to door to encourage the residents to ask for a provisional
ballot. She said that she isn’t sure what happened, but she asked the City to
ensure that it doesn’t happen again. Attorney Mike Isenberg commented that the
Board of Elections acknowledged that it was their mistake. They received the
annexation paperwork on another election day, and it got lost in the shuffle.
E.)
After a motion made by Alderman Lombardi and seconded by Alderman Davis, the
agenda was approved with the addition of the Up Your Arts Memorandum of
Understanding on the consent agenda. All ayes. Motion carried.
Mayor Joseph P. Hatem read the ethics statement.
Mayor Hatem read through the list of items on the Consent Agenda.
F.)   Approval of Consent Agenda
   1.   Minutes Special Board and Community Meeting October 12, 2021
   2.   Minutes Regular Board of Aldermen Meeting October 14, 2021
   3.   Extension of MOU with Up Your Arts through May 30, 2022
   A motion was made by Alderman Davis and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller
to approve the consent agenda. Motion carried. All ayes.
G.)   Special Recognition
   1.   Mayor Hatem asked all of the Veterans to stand, and he asked Mr. Paul
Fisher to approach the podium. Mayor Hatem read the proclamation in recognition
of Veterans Day and expressed gratitude to all those who served in the armed
forces. He asked for all of the Veterans in attendance to come up for a
picture.
H.)   Agenda:
Mayor Hatem stated that the news reporter at the State Port Pilot and welcomed
Elliot Duke to the meeting.
   1.
   The first item of business was a presentation by the Brunswick County
Homeless Coalition. Joe Staton, a representative of the organization, provided
a brief history of the group. The coalition began in 2011 after a group of
people attended a social justice meeting. Their vision is that instances of
homelessness in Brunswick County will be brief and rare. During the first half
of 2021, they helped 158 clients. There is no permanent shelter in Brunswick
County, so they often have to use hotels and shelters in other counties. That
makes it more difficult when there are school-aged children. The coalition
maintains a hotline for people to call when they are in need. They need
volunteers of all sorts-answering phones, fundraising, administration, or
personal service. If anyone is interested in volunteering, they can contact a
current volunteer or look online at brunswickhomeless.com.
   2.
   Mayor Hatem introduced the next agenda item. Each year, one way the City
shows its appreciation to staff is by providing a holiday bonus. This year, it
is proposed that full-time employees net $500 and part-time employees net $250
after taxes. After a motion made by Alderman Spencer and seconded by Alderman
Sharkey, the Board approved the holiday bonus pay as presented. All ayes.
Motion carried.
   3.
   Mayor Hatem opened the first public hearing at 6:26 p.m. This hearing was to
consider the rezoning of Parcel ID 221MD01011 from R-20 to R-10. Thomas Lloyd
explained that the parcel was undersized for the R-20 zoning district, but it
was an existing lot. Mr. Lloyd went on to describe that the property is
adjacent to both R-10 and R-20 zoning districts. Even though they are both
residential districts, the dimensional standards are different. The Planning
Board considered the rezoning at their meeting in October and were concerned
that the rezoning would negatively affect neighbors because of the change of
required setbacks. In addition, they felt that the rezoning was beneficial to
only one party, not the community's greater good. The Planning Board found that
the request was not consistent with the Land Use Plan and recommended that the
Board of Aldermen deny the request.
   The applicant, Cindy Waseleski, explained that she and her family, including
her and her husband, sister’s family, and their mother, reside in Weaverville,
NC. When visiting, they found the property at 110 Highland Park Avenue and
thought it was the perfect place to build a house. They planned to start
building the home in spring 2022 and had the property surveyed. The surveyor
mistakenly indicated that the parcel was zoned R-10 but found out from Thomas
Lloyd that it is zoned R-20. They hope to build a single-family dwelling and
also an accessory dwelling to reside. They found a floorplan that has just the
right amount of space, but the structure would be a bit too close to the
property line to meet the setback standards. Ms. Waseleski has signatures from
the neighbors on both sides, indicating they do not have any problems with the
rezoning. Close by to the property in question is the subdivision the Oaks at
Highland Park. That subdivision was assigned R-10 zoning when it was approved.
Since much of that area is already zoned R-10, Ms. Waseleski didn’t think there
would be much contention. Her family needs a one-story home with a separate
accessory dwelling. Mayor Hatem closed the public hearing at 6:39 p.m. Alderman
Sharkey asked about the existing homes in that area and how far the homes are
set off the road. She also suggested that other parcels in the area get rezoned
at the same time. Mr. Lloyd said that was feasible if the Board wanted to
pursue that. Alderman Spencer asked what might have caused the two zoning
districts in that area? Mr. Lloyd suggested that the original zoning map was
initially correct, but over time, the lines got shifted because of GIS
shapefiles, and it is possible that these parcels were annexed at some point.
After a motion made by Alderman Davis and seconded by Alderman Allen, the Board
adopted the resolution stating the rezoning request was not consistent with the
Land Use Plan. Alderman Allen said he certainly sympathizes with the request
but doesn’t think rezoning is the best solution. He would be open to pursuing a
rezoning of all of the adjacent properties at the same time. There was some
discussion about the ordinance standards and whether there was a way she could
get a waiver of some sort. Mr. Lloyd said that this circumstance wouldn’t
qualify for a variance. She asked what her next options were if the request
gets denied. Attorney Mike Isenberg said that she could build a house there but
follow the required setbacks. She also has the option to try to get the other
adjacent properties to rezone to R-10. Alderman Sharkey recommended that Mr.
Lloyd contact the other property owners in the area to see if they are
interested in rezoning. She said that it seemed to be a mix-up if all of the
lots were the same size. Mayor Hatem thanked everyone for participating. He
reviewed the motion made by Alderman Davis and seconded by Alderman Allen to
approve the resolution denying the rezoning request. Ayes given by Alderman
Allen, Alderman Lowe Davis, Alderman Tom Lombardi, and Mayor Pro-tem Karen
Mosteller. Aldermen Sharkey and Spenser did not vote in favor of approving the
resolution. Motion carried 4-2.
   4.
   Mayor Hatem opened the public hearing at 7:01 p.m. to discuss the rezoning
of a ten-acre tract at Southport Crossing from PUD to Highway Commercial.
Thomas Lloyd explained that the Planning Board reviewed the rest at their
September and October meetings. The Planning Board discussed infrastructure,
and the future land use plan specifies that commercial development should be
located at intersections of major thoroughfares. The current developer wants to
add another anchor store to the shopping center. Site plans would have to be
approved separately. The public hearing was closed at 7:10 p.m. Alderman
Sharkey made a motion to adopt the Land Use Consistency statement and the map
amendment, as presented. Alderman Lombardi made the second. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   5.
   Mayor Hatem opened the public hearing at 7:13 a.m. to consider the revised
tree preservation tex amendment. The Planning Board reviewed the tree
preservation ordinance over the last few months and has made some changes. The
name of the permit will be changed to Tree Impact Permit. Under the new
amendment, a tree removal permit will be required for each lot, not as a whole
subdivision. 80% of lots are to be left untouched before development.
Mitigation requirements have also been replaced. Understory cannot exceed 50%.
A minimum of 25% live oaks and canopy trees is required for replanting. Rebecca
Kelly approached the podium and asked for clarification about what trees must
be used if a live oak is removed. Ms. Dutton read the letter submitted by Scott
Len, who serves as Chair for the Forestry Committee. The civil penalty for
removing trees without a permit is $1.00 for every square foot of the parcel.
Commercial violations are $2.00 per square foot of the parcel. During the last
Planning Board meeting, they decided to approve the resolution in support of
the statement of land use consistency and recommend approving the text
amendment regarding tree preservation. Alderman Davis said that the UDO is a
living document and suggested that the Board adopt this amendment, for now,
understanding that changes and additions can be brought back to the Planning
Board in the future. Mayor Hatem closed the public hearing at 7:33 p.m. After a
motion made by Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller and seconded by Alderman Davis, the
Board adopted the Resolution in Support of the Land Use Consistency Statement
and the proposed text amendment with the following changes:
      D.   TREE IMPACT PERMIT
2.   For previously platted residential lots or one or two-family residential
uses, a tree impact permit shall be required to remove or conduct any
development within the critical root zone of any protected, regulated tree
located within any setback and for a protected specimen tree located anywhere
on said property.
      E.   EXCEPTIONS
1. The UDO Administrator may waive the requirements of this section during a
city-declared state of emergency in accordance with NCGS 166A-19.322.
      F.   TREE PLAN
3.   For residentially zoned vacant lots or one and two-family residential
uses, the tree plan to be submitted as part of the permitting process shall
include a hand-drawn sketch, rendering, or copy of an existing plat or survey
of the property indicating the location of those regulated or specimen trees
proposed to be removed, as well as any trees proposed to be planted as
mitigation (if applicable).
         (a).   TREE RETENTION REQUIREMENTS PER LOT SIZE UNDER IN THE R10, R20,
MF, AND PUD ZONING DISTRICTS
            1.   3,000 sq ft - 1 broadleaf canopy tree
            2.   6,500 sq ft - 2 broadleaf canopy trees
            3.   11,000 sq ft - 3 broadleaf canopy trees
            4.   14,000 sq ft - 4 broadleaf canopy trees
            5.   20,000+ sq ft - 5 broadleaf canopy trees
   All in favor were Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller and Aldermen Davis, Lombardi, and
Allen. Aldermen Sharkey and Spencer voted against the amendment. Motion carried
4-2.
   6.
   Mayor Hatem opened the public hearing at 7:46 p.m. to discuss a text
amendment that would allow outdoor storage and displays overnight in the
highway commercial zoning district. Paramount Engineering sponsored this text
amendment. Paramount Engineering is representing their client, a large agri-
supply store chain. Mayor Hatem closed the public hearing at 7:51 p.m. Alderman
Sharkey said he has no problem passing this amendment, and Mayor Pro-tem
agreed. After a motion made by Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller and seconded by Alderman
Lombardi, the Resolution in support of the land use consistency statement    
and text amendment, as presented. All ayes. Motion carried.
Committee Reports
Aldermen Allen, Spencer, or Sharkey did not have anything to report. Alderman
Davis thanked Ms. Dutton for reading the letter from Scott Len with the
Forestry Committee. She shared an experience that she had with a couple that
had just moved to the area. The couple came to attend the Forestry Committee
meeting to see what the committee was working on because their neighbors had
just removed three live oaks. Alderman Davis also encouraged everyone to read
the City newsletter. This month the article from the Forestry committee
discusses whether it is a good idea to buy a live Christmas tree or use an
artificial tree.
Alderman Lombardi said that the Beautification committee has checked the lights
on the wreaths and trees. They prepared decorations for the Public Services
department to install. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller and the Parks and Recreation
want to recognize that FEMA has authorized the repair of Kingsley Pier by
spring. Basketball registration is continuing through the end of November. The
Parks and Recreation office is open from 8:30 a.m.to 5:30 p.m. Dinner is
scheduled for December 8th at 5 p.m. December 9th, Polar Express with be shown
on the Garrison lawn at dusk. Children up to 12 years old are invited to
participate in Santa’s workshop. The streetlight demonstration is forthcoming.
Once available, public notice will be made.
Manager's Report
Mr. Hargrove reported the City budget/expenses are where they should be, with
67% remaining. The Yacht Basin committee is meeting with the Council of
Governments to look into other options soon. Indigo Phase 2 has submitted an
application packet, which includes annexation, rezoning, and PUD. The current
conditions on Howe Street are not the final project. NCDOT requires the road to
settle for a while before we can pave. Paving will probably happen around
February or March next year. Mr. Hargrove asked the Board to start looking
ahead so a half-day workshop could be scheduled.
Mayor's Comments
Mayor Hatem stated that Southport had a 50 % voter turnout in the recent
election. He stated that the annual tree lighting ceremony is scheduled for the
Friday after Thanksgiving. He read a section from an Abraham Lincoln speech
about the meaning of Thanksgiving.
Staff Comments: Staff reports were included in the agenda packet.
Board Comments
Alderman Allen expressed his gratitude to all of the Veterans and all that they
have done. He appreciates their sacrifice. The family affected by the recent
fire on Clarendon Avenue can receive donations and assistance through
SouthportCares.org.
Alderman Spencer said that this was his last full Board meeting as an Alderman.
It has been an honor for him to sit on the Board. He also reported that Ms.
Sharon Aldridge had passed away. His thoughts are with her family.
Alderman Sharkey said that she would like to pass along some information that
she acquired while campaigning. The public is looking for a strategic and long-
range plan that will address the City’s infrastructure. Alderman Sharkey also
thanked the City staff for all the help during the years she served on the
Board.
Alderman Davis said that she was so pleased to see all of the veterans in
attendance. She said that she comes from a long line of veterans.
Alderman Lombardi said that it is time to revisit the City’s pay structure. It
has become increasingly challenging to retain good people as employees.
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller thanked the planning board and forestry committee for
their help preparing the draft tree preservation ordinance. During Winterfest,
pet picture booths will be set up. That event will be taking place at the
Indian Trail Meeting Hall.
She urged everyone to look online to learn more about the Winterfest events.
Mayor Hatem thanked everyone for an excellent meeting. It was a wonderful
tribute to our veterans
 
After a motion made by Alderman Lombardi and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem
Mosteller, the Mayor adjourned the Board meeting at 8:14 p.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
 
                     _______________________________________
                     Joseph P. Hatem, M.D., M.P.H
                     Mayor, City of Southport
__________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk   
DECEMBER 9, 2021
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING DECEMBER 9, 2021
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
6:00 p.m.
Present:    Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor Pro Tem Karen Mosteller, Aldermen
Thomas Lombardi, Lora Sharkey, Lowe Davis, Marc Spencer, and John Allen.
Staff Present:
   Gordon Hargrove, City Manager
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
   Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
   Thomas Lloyd, Developmental Services Director
   Randy Jones, Communications/Tourism Director
   Allayna Dail, Community Building and Communications Staff
   Heather Hemphill, Parks and Recreation Director
   Kate Marshall, Animal Control
   Todd Coring, Police Chief
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   Ralph Treadway, EMS Battalion Chief
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
   Tanya Shannon, Deputy City Clerk
   Lisa Anderson, Assistant Communications Director
Others Present:
   Tish Hatem,
   Richard Alt and wife,
   Robert Carroll and family,
   Will Hewitt,
   Pastor Devon Varnam,
   Pamela Johnson, NC Representative
   Charles Miller, Superior Court Judge
   Jason Disbrow,
   and many other interested citizens.
Meetings are now open to the public. Complete audio/video is available on the
City's website or can be requested from the City Clerk's office.
A.)
Mayor Joseph P. Hatem called the meeting to order at 6:04 p.m. and welcomed
everyone to the meeting. He thanked everyone for attending the meeting.
B.)
Mayor Hatem announced that Pastor Devon Varnam would be providing the
invocation.
C.)
Mayor Hatem led the pledge of allegiance.
D.)   Public Comment:
Pamela Johnson approached the podium representing New Brunswick Baptist Church.
She said they wanted to start a new tradition of presenting Bibles to new Board
members and those elected for a new term. She presented Bibles and letters of
support to Mayor Hatem, Alderman Mosteller, Alderman Alt, and Alderman Carroll.
E.)
Mayor Hatem stated that one item should be added to the consent agenda, and the
audit presentation would be moved to the last item on the agenda. After a
motion by Alderman Allen and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller, the Board
approved the revised agenda as presented with the two changes. All ayes. Motion
carried.
Mayor Joseph P. Hatem read the ethics statement.
Mayor Hatem read through the list of items on the Consent Agenda and explained
the added item in more detail.
F.)   Approval of Consent Agenda
   1.   Minutes of Regular Meeting November 11, 2021
   2.   Added to the consent agenda was the approval of a one-time policy to
prorate the permit fee for existing short-term rentals. They have only had
their permits for 3-4 months, and the permit is supposed to be for January-
December. Permit-holders will submit the renewal form online and pay $33.00 for
2022.
A motion was made by Alderman Davis and seconded by Alderman Sharkey to approve
the consent agenda. Motion carried. All ayes.
G.)   Check Presentation
   1.    NC House of Representative member Charles Miller addressed the Board
and the public. He said that it was good to be home. He thanked Aldermen
Spencer and Sharkey for their service and said he looks forward to working with
the new Aldermen. He was initially prepared to present the City with $5 million
to help waterfront stabilization. He secured more funding for Southport,
including $2.8 million for infrastructure, $5 million for waterfront
stabilization, and $150,000 for the fire department. He presented the City with
a prop check for $8.4 million. Mr. Miller said that Senator Rabon sends his
best but could not make it to the Board meeting. Representative Miller and the
Board posed together for pictures.
H.)   Recognition of Departing Southport Aldermen
   1.   Mayor Hatem read the Resolution recognizing Alderman Sharkey’s passion
and diplomacy during her term as an Alderman. Everyone clapped and stood in
support of Lora Sharkey.
   2.   Mayor Hatem read the Resolution recognizing Alderman Spencer’s
dedication and pride in serving as an Alderman. Everyone clapped and stood in
support of Marc Spencer.
I.)   Swearing in of Mayor and Aldermen
Mayor Hatem thanked the Honorable Jason Disbrow, N.C. Superior Court Judge, for
administering the oaths. Judge Disbrow stepped to the podium. He said that as a
citizen of Southport, he is honored to perform the oaths. He is not native to
Southport, but he loves it here. Judge Disbrow also wanted to remind everyone
that (people) “we” might not always agree, but in this room, one thing is true.
We all love Southport.” He said that he hopes that we never forget that we are
all doing what we think is best at the heart of every decision.
   1.   Mayor Hatem and Tish Hatem walked to the front of the room. Mrs. Hatem
held the Bible, and the oath of office was performed. Mr. Joseph P. Hatem,
M.D., was sworn in for a new term as Mayor. The Board and the public all stood
in congratulations.
   2.   Alderman Mosteller walked to the front of the room with Kitty Proctor.
Ms. Proctor held the Bible, and the oath was performed. Karen Mosteller was
sworn in for a new term as Alderman. The Board and the public all stood in
congratulations.
Mayor Hatem suggested a brief recess before the oaths continued. The meeting
reconvened at 6:35 p.m. The Communications and Tourism staff asked Judge
Disbrow to relocate to the podium for better sound quality.
   3.   Richard Alt and his wife, Deborah, went to stand at the podium. Deborah
Alt held the Bible, and the oath was performed. Alderman Alt was sworn in for
his first term as Alderman. The Board and the public stood in congratulations.
   4.   Robert Carroll, his wife Michelle, and three children approached the
podium. The Carroll family held the Bible, and the oath was performed. Alderman
Carroll was sworn in for his first term as Alderman. The Board and the public
stood in congratulations.
J.)   Agenda
   1.   Mayor Hatem stated that the Board would also have to decide who should
serve as Mayor Pro- tem for the upcoming year. He stated that he had enjoyed
working with Alderman Mosteller over the past two years, and she has proven
leadership skills and experience. After a motion made by Alderman Lombardi and
seconded by Alderman Allen, the Board elected Alderman Karen Mosteller to serve
as Mayor Pro-tem. All ayes. Motion carried. Judge Disbrow performed the Oath of
Office, swearing Aldermen Mosteller in as the Mayor Pro-tem. Mayor Hatem
welcomed the new Board members.
   2.   Alan Thompson, from Thompson, Price. Scott, Adams, and Co. presented
the audit report to the Board and the public. Overall, the City had a very
positive audit. A few items had to be reclassified, and some permits were
miscalculated. The NCDOT road widening project has got the City showing $1.2
million unassigned funds because the project is stalled. The City’s tax
collection rate is 99%, which is excellent. The audit shows improvements in
most categories. The audit has been submitted to the Local Government
Commission. The LGC is behind schedule reviewing audits right now, but he
doesn’t anticipate any changes or issues. Mayor Hatem thanked Mr. Thompson for
the report and the graphics that helped explain all of the different accounts
and figures. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller asked how the “weighted” average is
derived. Mr. Thompson said that it compares Southport with other municipalities
similar to Southport. He will send the list that was used to the City.
Committee Reports
Aldermen Allen, Spencer, and Sharkey did not have anything to report. Alderman
Lowe Davis stated that the Forestry Committee meets next Tuesday afternoon at
the Indian Trail Meeting Hall. There is an interesting article in the
newsletter about Christmas trees.
Alderman Tom Lombardi said that the Beautification Committee worked hard to get
all of the Christmas lights together and ready. Now, they get to sit back and
enjoy themselves. The Board of Adjustment will be meeting on December 21st at
the Community Building.
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller stated that the Rate Committee will be meeting on
December 21st at the Indian Trail Meeting Hall.
Manager's Report
Mr. Hargrove reported that the improvements for Phase 2 of the City dock will
be starting soon. The City will be accepting bids for the Kingsley Pier later
this month or in January. The paving on Howe Street should be starting around
March of next year. City staff is still reviewing the Indigo Phase 2 project
submittal documents. The City has received a couple of bids for a fiscal impact
analysis for the Indigo project.
Mayor's Comments
Mayor Hatem said that Southport has enjoyed one of the most beautiful Christmas
seasons. The lights and decorations are beautiful, and the candy cane garden
was like a winter wonderland. He thanked all of the departments for
collaborating during Winterfest. Friday evening is the Christmas parade and
Saturday evening is the flotilla.
The Fire Department’s Annual Awards Banquet was on December 4th. He said that
it was wonderful to hear about all the training and heroic efforts throughout
the year. Congratulations to Fire Chief Drew and Fire Asst. Chief Todd Coring
celebrated their 30th anniversary with the Southport Fire Department. Mayor
Hatem said that the Dosher Hospital is so important to our community. He
congratulated Randy Jones for being elected to serve on the Board of Trustees
again. He also stated that Dr. Brad Hilaman would be retiring soon. There will
be a celebration in the lobby of the hospital.
Mayor Hatem said that he understands that there is some recurring fear about
the new strain of Covid- 19. He urged everyone to get the booster shot and wear
a mask. Staff reports are included in the Board packet. Mayor Hatem wished
everyone a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year!
Staff Reports: Staff reports were included in the agenda packet.
Board Comments
Alderman Allen offered his sincere thanks to Gordon Hargrove, Melanie Trexler,
and the City staff for maintaining high fiscal standards. Congratulations on a
timely audit. Citizens should be pleased with the City’s financial situation.
Alderman Allen said that he is looking forward to the budget workshops. The
City has some considerable issues to tackle, and he encouraged citizens to stay
apprised of those topics. He welcomed the two new Board members and wished
everyone a Merry Christmas.
Alderman Carroll thanked the City of Southport for the opportunity to serve.
This year has been the best Winterfest that he can remember. Merry Christmas to
everyone!
Alderman Alt thanked the City of Southport for the opportunity to serve. He
thinks the flotilla will be a great event on Saturday. Merry Christmas and
goodwill to man.
Alderman Davis suggested that those who have not completed their Christmas
shopping visit the Friends of the Library book sale on Saturday, December 11th.
This is the library’s biggest fundraiser of the year.
Alderman Lombardi welcomed Aldermen Alt and Alderman Carroll. He wishes a Merry
Christmas and a healthy, happy New Year to everyone.
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller made the following comments:
   “I echo the comments of the Mayor and my fellow board members …
   Feeling gratitude and not expressing it is like wrapping a present and not
giving it.
   So, I would like to take a moment to say thank you to Representative Miller
and Senator Rabon.    We thank you for your service, and we are grateful for
your generous accessibility and willingness to listen and work on behalf of our
community.
   In the day-to-day as citizens of Southport, we are indebted to the talented
   individuals that work for the city. With humility, we recognize that we can
never repay you for all the countless, unseen things you do for the good of the
city and its citizens.
   Whether it’s Public Works that keeps our city running or our Police and Fire
Departments that keeps us safe or the Communications and Tourism and Parks and
Rec Departments    that helps to maintain our culture. Our city is blessed with
committed individuals that work here.
   Also, we recognize our neighbors who share their time and talents, day to
day, for the benefit of the city they love. The spirit of volunteerism within
our community appears boundless. Whether it’s the Beautification Committee
planting bulbs or helping to spread Christmas cheer or the Forestry Committee
helping to watch over our beloved trees or the kindness of neighbors checking
in on neighbors, I am so very proud to be a part of the community that you all
live in.
   To paraphrase Dr. Martin Luther King, “ Everybody can be great. Because
anybody can serve. You only need a heart full of grace. A soul generated by
love.”
   For all these reasons, Southport is an awesome place to call home. Safe and
Happy Holidays to Everyone!
Adjourn
Mayor Hatem thanked everyone for attending or watching at home. After a motion
made by Alderman Lombardi and seconded by Alderman Allen, Mayor Hatem adjourned
the meeting at 7:16 p.m. All ayes. Motion carried.   
                           _______________________________________
                           Joseph P. Hatem, M.D., M.P.H
                           Mayor, City of Southport
__________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk   
2022
JANUARY 11, 2022
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
223 E. BAY STREET  JANUARY 11, 2022
COMMUNITY BUILDING SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:   Mayor Joseph P. Hatem
   Mayor Pro-tem Karen Mosteller;
   Aldermen Tom Lombardi,
   Lowe Davis,
   John Allen,
   Robert Carroll,
   and Rich Alt
STAFF PRESENT:
   Gordon Hargrove, City Manager
   Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
   Thomas Lloyd, Development Services Director
   Ralph Treadway, EMS Battalion
   Chief Randy Jones, Tourism & Comm. Director
   Kate Marshall, Animal Protective Services
Lisa Anderson, Assistant Communications Director
OTHERS PRESENT:
Tish Hatem,
Lora Sharkey,
and Peyton Furtado (WWAYTV3)
A)   Call to Order
Mayor Hatem called the special retreat to order at 9:02 a.m. He welcomed
everyone in attendance and those watching virtually.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Lowe Davis gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
Mayor Hatem led everyone in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Approval of Agenda-
Mayor Hatem said that there was one change to the agenda. The items discussing
Bee City, USA, and the integrated pest control plan was postponed until the
next retreat. After a motion made by Alderman Lombardi and seconded by Mayor
Pro-tem Mosteller, the agenda was approved with the change as presented.
E)   Town Hall/Workshop Agenda
Mayor Hatem thanked the City Manager and staff for providing the important
content. Technology was a priority of the previous Board, and additional media
plans are underway. Mayor Hatem encouraged the Board to think about serving the
citizens with excellence and humility. The Mayor said that he looked forward to
hearing all the topics planned for today's retreat. He asked Mr. Hargrove to
open the meeting.
City Manager, Gordon Hargrove, welcomed the Board to the retreat and thanked
everyone for attending. He said that the Board has a lot of decisions to make
to set Southport in the right direction. The City must set some goals and look
out onto the horizon and current conditions. We all want to preserve
Southport's heritage by carrying forth its culture and history. These Board
workshops are a way to identify the path. Mr. Hargrove stated that this meeting
was more about discussion than decisions. He asked the City Clerk, Dorothy
Dutton, to begin her presentation.
   1.   Ms. Dutton began her presentation by speaking about the council-manager
form of government. Based on GS 160A-148(2), the city manager shall direct and
supervise the administration of all departments, offices, and agencies of the
City, subject to the general direction and control of the council.
   2.   Ms. Dutton reviewed the duties, responsibilities, and best practices of
the Mayor, Mayor Pro-tem, and Aldermen. These include ensuring that resources
are adequate to serve the public, regularly reviewing the government's
finances, programs, and services, respecting local government employees, and
following the appropriate protocols for interacting with staff.
   3.   Ms. Dutton reviewed some background on the City Manager and Department
Heads, including their roles and responsibilities.
   4.   Finally, the City Clerk reviewed the City charter, financials, and
planned projects. She discussed the importance of maintaining a strong fund
balance and the current budget.
F)
     Each Board member was given the opportunity to express their vision and
goals.
    Mayor Hatem said that the City was willing and able to help with the 4th of
July festival however, we can. We just had Winterfest, and it was a Hallmark
week. Southport has a village atmosphere and a remarkable record of
volunteerism. The commemorations and celebrations were abound. Mayor Hatem
expressed several goals, including infrastructure, waterfront stabilization,
the utility merger with Brunswick County, investment in crosswalks, more
parking in the City, and possibly an electric trolley. He said we want to
protect our special areas, background, and heritage. He is optimistic and looks
forward to the rest of the Board's comments. Mayor Hatem said that there is no
problem that the City might face that is too big to overcome.
    Alderman Davis stated that the expertise in this community is incredible.
She would like to see more ad hoc committees to address some issues. We want to
protect the yacht basin and revise the Unified Development Ordinance to revisit
Conditional Zoning possibly. Alderman Davis suggested the idea of a Citizens
Academy to help educate the citizens about the roles and responsibilities of
the Board, Mayor, and staff. She has also considered whether changing how the
residents of Southport vote by doing away with the two-wards system. As far as
the 4th of July, she would prefer to use silent fireworks to help avoid some of
the issues     with pets.
    Alderman Carroll stated that he is humbled by this experience and grateful
to serve on the Board. He would like the focus of the Board to be fiscal
responsibility and infrastructure. The City needs to be stable financially. He
would also like to focus on the historical district, tree protection, and open
space protection. He wants Southport to be a place where families can feel safe
and good about raising children. Listening to the public is the most important,
and education is critical. He would also like to see the kayak launch project
take place.
    Alderman Alt stated that there is a strong need for transparency. He
acknowledged that the    Board has some "heavy lifting" to do in the next few
months. He suggested using some federal rescue funding to provide bonuses for
staff who worked through the pandemic. Mr. Alt stated that the City should hire
someone to complete a cost-benefit factor for all proposed projects. He
expressed concerns about using his personal phone and email to conduct City
business. And he asked how the City develops a packet of legislative requests
for our State representatives? He suggested making a list of legislative
interests to provide to our representatives. Alderman Alt stated that the
inflation rate was 7.1% after the first year. It doesn't seem like the City
will ever be able to keep up, but we need to ensure that the     employees know
it is being discussed. The City of Southport endorsed the School of
Government's best practices in 2010, written in 2005. There is a more recent
    version that was written in 2017. Should the City adopt the new version?
Alderman Alt also stated that if Indigo Phase 2 gets developed, three-quarters
of the City's population will be in Ward 2. Perhaps the ward system needs to be
changed. Also, he would like clarification about handling complaints or calls
from citizens not inside the ward he represents. Mayor Hatem clarified that as
Aldermen, the wards represent all residents now. If he receives a call or
complaint, it is fine to handle it. And Mayor Hatem reminded everyone that all
complaints should be funneled through the City Manager.
    Alderman John Allen said he didn't want to belabor the same topics. His
vision for Southport is pedestrian safety, protecting neighborhoods, retaining
employees, and strengthening infrastructure.
     Alderman Tom Lombardi discussed how he would like the City to perform all
street repairs in-house. Road maintenance and related projects have been his
life's work. It is evident that street repairs have been put on the back burner
for a long time. Our current staff does what     they can. Mr. Lombardi
proposes adding a (4) man crew and equipment to Public Works. The necessary
equipment would be around $100,000. The additional cost should be less than
hiring an outside company to perform needed work. There are many other
applications to streets besides paving/concrete. The City still needs an
engineer. Maintenance is a must and is cheaper when it is not pushed off to
another year. Alderman Lombardi also supported doing away with the wards during
elections.
    Mayor Hatem said that he appreciates Alderman Lombardi's expertise.
    Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller said that most everything had been said already.
Her first goal is to preserve the historic character of Southport. She would
like to see a Capital Improvement Plan, continue working towards the utility
merger; develop a stormwater plan, and continue with the capital projects in
utilities. The City needs an engineer. Ms.Mosteller would like to develop a
historic district and an entry corridor overlay district. She said that the
yacht basin     pedestrian corridor is important and needs to be done right.
She said that the Board needs to authorize the manager to contract with the
Council of Government's transportation planners. The City needs to create a
policy for traffic calming devices to be in the budget     next fiscal year.
Ms. Mosteller favored a salary study and increase, noting that it is cheaper to
retain good employees than hire new ones. She said that dredging at the yacht
basin is a priority because it is iconic. Based on what the Lockwood Folly area
received in funding, she believes that Southport would be eligible for a 66%-
33% arrangement through some state water resources. We need to know how much
dredge material is needed to do it right.
    Mayor Hatem stated that those were all great topics.
    City Manager Gordon Hargrove said that he wanted to follow up with a few
items. The City received $2.8 million for Howe Street paving. There is
currently $1.8 million remaining. Those funds are from the viable utility fund,
so they must be used for water/sewer projects. City staff has several ideas for
the $1.8 million, primarily the sewer lift stations. Money asked for in the
budget would be used for paving. Hiring an engineer has been a challenge.    
The salary requirements for that position was way out of line with what was
budgeted. And the consulting engineering fees were too high. A retired engineer
is moving to the area and is interested in working part-time. The City Manager
will be coordinating a meeting with him to see if he is interested and what his
qualifications are. Mr. Hargrove concluded that there is never really any
downtime in the City. We are always looking to make process improvements. The
merger feasibility study is forthcoming, and we should hear something in the
spring. It would serve the City well to turn over the utilities to the County.
He thanked the Board for their attention, and the Mayor suggested a break. The
meeting was recessed at 11:07 p.m.
G.)
   Mayor Hatem called the meeting back to order at 11:32 a.m. Ms. Dutton
addressed the Board     with information about how to amend the City charter.
There have been some discussions about changing the Mayoral term to four years
instead of the two-year terms that are in effect now. There was some discussion
between Board members about the benefits of a longer-term, including
continuity. Ms. Dutton explained that there are essentially two methods to
change the charter. The easiest method would be to adopt a resolution
requesting the General Assembly to consider changing the charter. If he agreed
to proceed, the staff at the state level would write the local bill for the
City. Staff has already been told by our State Representative,     Charlie
Miller, that he wouldn't take it straight to the General Assembly. He prefers
the City place the topic on the ballot at an election first and let the people
decide. If the public votes     in favor of the change, the General Assembly
would likely amend the charter. The other method to change the charter is for
the Board to adopt a resolution describing the proposed amendment. A public
hearing must take place no more than (45) days after the resolution is adopted.
Then, not more than (60) days after the hearing, the Board may adopt an
ordinance amending the charter. The ordinance should state whether the public's
vote is required or not. If a public vote is not required, and the Board adopts
the ordinance, there is a petition     that the public can file opposing the
amendment. For the amendment to pass, 10% of registered voters, or 5,000
people, must vote in favor.
    Ms. Dutton explained that this process would be valid for any charter
change that the Board    wanted to make, such as ending the two different wards
for voting purposes.
    There was more discussion about which method would be best and whether the
public would have any concerns about extending the mayoral term.
H.)
     Gordon Hargrove addressed the Board about the second tranche of ARF that
the City will be receiving. There are several parameters to how the money can
be used. Mr. Hargrove said that there was no decision-making today. The funding
must be used for one of the following: covid response and adaption; premium pay
for essential workers; revenue loss; and infrastructure improvements. Alderman
Davis asked Mr. Hargrove if he had any suggestions. He stated that the
infrastructure is under duress. There are highly critical components that are
failing. He suggested that would be the best use. $600,000 is a lot of money,
but the average rehab of a pump station is $500,000. Alderman Lombardi asked
about replacing water lines before we pave Howe Street and dig them up again.
Alderman Allen said that it would be nice if the Board came to a consensus
about overarching categories for spending the money. He stated that it seems
like a consensus to spend it on infrastructure. But then the Board should look
to staff to provide suggestions and inputs on what to use it for specifically.
Alderman Allen said that he would like to see something done for eligible
employees, too. Alderman Davis asked if there were any deadlines for deciding
how to use the funds. Gordon     Hargrove said that he is not aware of any. He
also stated that the City is in the final stage of    the grant application to
re-do the water/sewer project on the west side of town. Howe Street paving will
take place in the next few months. We are not in a position to replace the
water lines right now. That probably won't be required for another five to
seven years, and by then,     we will need to repave the road again anyway.
Alderman Allen said we should replace the water lines on Howe Street when NCDOT
will pave there. Alderman Alt stated that he prefers the same two categories:
infrastructure and bonuses for essential staff who worked     through the
pandemic.
    Mayor Hatem stated that he places importance on both of those categories.
And the sooner that Southport upgrades the utilities, the sooner we can hand
them over to Brunswick County. There was some discussion about which staff
would be eligible to receive the funding. Alderman Allen said he would like to
see each employee receive $2000 and the balance spent on infrastructure. There
was a discussion about when the City will find out about     possible grant
funding. Mr. Hargrove stated that it is his understanding that when the County
is ready to accept our utilities, they will assume the system and the
associated debt. The merger study will provide a list of items in our system
that need improvement before the County assumes responsibility. Mr. Hargrove
and Tom Stanley are already reviewing     some project lists. The City has (4)
critical lift stations that need to be addressed.
    There were no further comments or questions. Mayor Hatem dismissed everyone
for lunch at 12:25 p.m.
I.)
     Mayor Hatem called the meeting back to order at 12:55 p.m. and called City
Manager     Gordon Hargrove to the podium. Mr. Hargrove stated that the
pandemic has changed the world we live in. The labor market is one area of a
significant amount of change. There is a shortage in the labor market, and
salaries have become more competitive. The City Clerk gathered a lot of
information from the NC League of Municipalities and other similar communities.
Southport is unusual because we have such a large tourist population at times.
Southport hosts about 4000 residents and closer to 20,000 during any given
summer day. Based on the information collected, Southport is more competitive
than expected. There are still a few deficient positions. Not to mention that
inflation is driving up the cost of everyday goods and services. Southport
needs to be able to attract and retain top-shelf talent. Local     government
is never going to be competitive with private industry. But there can be
adjustments made that would help defer the rise of inflation. Alderman Lombardi
added that if Southport is going to attract people to come to the City, we will
have to pay people. Alderman Alt said he would like to see what the increase
would look like and where the money would come from. Mr. Hargrove said that it
would depend on the salary of each staff member. Mayor Hatem added that we have
to find a way to meet the market so our employees are not losing 6-7% from
inflation. We want our staff to be happy working here. Alderman Allen asked if
Mr. Hargrove had any recommendations for the positions that were already below
average. Mr. Hargrove said that he suggests doing a salary study internally
with the amount of information we already have. The City can go ahead and make
some adjustments on those few deficient positions now and then look at the
extra percentage that     would bring Southport to a more competitive level and
cover the inflation rate. He suggests somewhere between 6-10% across the board.
Alderman Allen said that the salary increase would be covered in the next
budget cycle. Mr. Hargrove added that we want to be good stewards of citizens'
money, but we also need to maintain a certain level of service.
    Mayor Hatem mentioned that the Board and Manager discussed Merit pay last
year. He is interested in moving forward with merit pay and cost of living
increases due to inflation. Mr. Hargrove stated that merit pay would be awarded
to those who score highest during     performance appraisals. Training goals
and progress will be reviewed, and increases will be based on staff scores
overall. These performance appraisals are also a way to identify and
potentially remove less valuable employees. Mr. Hargrove said that the scoring
mechanism places people in categories. If a staff member continuously falls
into the bottom third quadrant, they would potentially be let go from their
position with the City.
    Mr. Hargrove stated that the administration had hoped that State
Representative Charlie Miller would be available at the beginning of the
meeting, but his schedule did not match up. Mr. Miller is now present and would
like to answer any questions the Board might have.
J.)
     Mayor Hatem welcomed Mr. Miller and said that the Board is happy to have
him in attendance. State Representative Charlie Miller thanked the Board for
having him and asked if he could take a seat beside the Mayor. Mr. Miller said
that he hates to pop in uninvited. He said he was interested in what the City
has planned for the new year. Representative Miller said that he is aware that
waterfront stabilization is a huge project and assured everyone that he would
ask for more money from the state. Mayor Hatem included infrastructure, lift
stations, and the waterfront are all important. Mayor Pro-tem Karen    
Mosteller said that the City needs funding for (2) pedestrian crosswalks, and
we need a pedestrian plan that everyone will support. She then corrected her
statement by saying that almost all of our intersections need pedestrian
crosswalks. Representative Miller said that he can ask for that money once a
year, and he will ask for more for us for that purpose. He asked for a copy of
the pedestrian plan.
    Alderman Lombardi asked Representative Miller his thoughts on Southport
implementing a meal tax? Representative Miller said that it would be possible
if the Board would pass a resolution. It also helps if other local
municipalities or the County are on Board with the     meal tax. He said that
it helps to have a resolution from the governing board in the General Assembly.
Alderman Allen said that he didn't have any questions; he just wanted to thank
him for all the help thus far.
    Alderman Alt said that he thinks it would be a misstep to try to charge a
meal tax without the support of the people in the industry. He wants everyone
to know what is moving forward. Alderman Davis suggested partnering with Oak
Island. Alderman Carroll expressed    his gratitude to Representative Miller.
Mr. Hargrove asked if more funds were being released. Mr. Miller stated that it
was true, but he is not sure of their release date. He will try to get more
information for the City. Mr. Hargrove said that a Mayor's group meets on a
more regular basis. He suggested using it as the legislative advocacy group for
all the local municipalities. Representative Miller added that when a group of
elected officials shows up at the General Assembly, it gives more strength to
the cause. Alderman Allen said that it makes sense to have a joint legislative
committee. He also asked Representative Miller if he prefers hearing from
individuals or should the full Board come to him with issues and questions?
Representative Miller just said that he welcomes any calls. He said that the
Board could ask Mr. Hargrove or Mayor Hatem to call him so that there    aren't
so many calls.
    Mayor Hatem thanked Representative Miller for his support. Mr. Hargrove
asked Mr. Miller if he would state his preference in handling the changing of
the charter regarding the Mayoral term. Representative Miller said that issue
should be left to the people's will. He asked the City to hold a referendum.
Mr. Hargrove clarified that if the voters agree to change the term to four
years, will Representative Miller support it? Representative Miller said that
he would     absolutely support it. Representative Miller closed by saying that
he is here and accessible, just let him know how to help.
    Mayor Hatem called for a brief recess at 1:45 p.m.
K.)
     Revenue Generating Ideas: City Manager Hargrove asked the Board to think
about how much revenue a one-cent tax increase would generate. He said he was
surprised that it wasn't more, but the increase would only generate an
additional $108,829. He said that the residents expect a certain level of
services, but it is getting more expensive to provide those services. It might
be time to consider other alternatives for generating revenue.
      1.   City Manager Gordon Hargrove said that he wanted to provide a
30,000-foot view of paid parking for the Board. He passed out a packet of
information that Major Burke provided. It will be a complicated topic because
many of the City's parking is on state roads. The NCDOT has been challenging it
in some areas. Specifically, we have a lot of parking in encroachment areas.
Paid parking will generate some revenue, but would the cost of operating the
equipment outweigh the revenue? Alderman Carroll said we would focus on
encroachments regardless of paid parking. Mr. Hargrove thanked Alderman Carroll
for bringing that topic up. Mr. Hargrove explained that addressing
encroachments will be a Board decision that will be political and financial.
Alderman Davis suggested that the topic of paid parking be turned over to an ad
hoc committee that would make a recommendation. Alderman Carroll said that the
parking issue is bigger than just whether the City should use paid parking. He
would like to find ways to educate people about where parking is located. And
he would like for City residents to have a parking decal. Alderman Alt asked if
the Southport Police Department has the authority to write parking tickets? Mr.
Hargrove stated that the Police Department did not write parking tickets.
Writing tickets fall under Code Enforcement. Mr. Hargrove said that paid
parking is the ideal way to monetize visitors that come to Southport. Alderman
Carroll said he would like to see a committee do more research and make sure
that City staff isn't taking parking away from residents or tourists. Alderman
Allen said that it takes a lot of staff time and money to dive into the topic
and develop solutions fully. The City has a lot going on right now, and he
thinks that we need to prioritize.
      2.   Thomas Lloyd, Development Services Director, approached the podium
to speak about accommodations taxes. Mr. Lloyd said that the City Manager asked
him to    overview the occupancy tax and the history here in Southport. Mr.
Lloyd said that there is no general authorization to collect occupancy tax.
Local acts give authorization. If a local government wants to use additional
taxes, we have to get permission or authority. In 1989 House Bill 615
authorized a 3% occupancy tax. In 2001 House Bill 668 authorized the City to
levy an additional 2%. If the City levied more than 3%, the state would require
the City to create a tourism authority that would dictate how the funds could
be spent. And the funds can only be spent on    marketing, commercials, market
research, or increasing the use of lodging facilities or convention centers.
Alderman Lombardi said that it looks like the 1% meals tax might be the best
path for generating revenue.
      3.   Mr. Thomas Lloyd defined motor vehicle tax. The tax can be assessed
on any self-propelled motor vehicles registered in the City limits. Any City or
Town can collect between $5.00 to $30.00 per vehicle and be used for specific
purposes, including paving. $5.00 of the tax levied can be used for general
public purposes. Anything more than $5.00 must be spent on public, City-
maintained streets. Mr. Lloyd said that currently, Leland charges a $30.00
motor vehicle tax. Boiling Springs Lakes charges $25.00 per vehicle, and the
funds are used for paving projects. Boiling Springs Lakes makes about $135,000
annually for street projects, and they have approximately 5400 vehicles.
      4.   The City Manager asked the Board if we needed money to repair
streets and correct the stormwater issues, how much money would the City need?
The Board guessed between $25-50 million dollars. Mr. Hargrove said that we
need a holistic fix. If we acquired a general obligation bond, we would have
the money upfront to fix things upfront and pay for it afterward. The roads in
Southport are not getting any better, and    the process will only cost more in
the future. We can bond about $50 million based on the recent audit.
Installment financing is the most common type of borrowing. This method of
financing includes purchasing vehicles or equipment.
L.)
      Mayor Hatem thanked everyone for attending and participating in the
meeting. He said that there was a lot of information provided today. Thanks to
the City Manager and staff for organizing everything. Today was the first of
several workshops. After a motion by Alderman Allen and seconded by several
other Board members, the Mayor adjourned the meeting at 3:13 p.m. All ayes.
Motion carried.
                           _______________________________________
                           Joseph P. Hatem, M.D., M.P.H
                           Mayor, City of Southport
__________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
JANUARY 13, 2022
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING JANUARY 13, 2022
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
6:00 p.m.
Present: 
   Mayor Joseph P. Hatem,
   Mayor Pro Tem Karen Mosteller,
   Aldermen Thomas Lombardi,
   Rich Alt,
   Lowe Davis,
   Robert Carroll, and
   John Allen.
Staff Present:
   Gordon Hargrove, City Manager
   Mike Isenberg, City Attorney
   Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
   Thomas Lloyd, Developmental Services Director
   Randy Jones, Communications/Tourism Director
   Lisa Anderson, Asst. Communications Director
   Heather Hemphill, Parks and Recreation Director
   Kate Marshall, Animal Control
   Matt Burgess, Police Dept Detective
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   Ralph Treadway, EMS Battalion Chief
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
   Tom Stanley, Public Services Director   
Others Present:
   Tish Hatem,
   Lora Sharkey,
   Eliot Duke with the State Port Pilot,
   and many other interested citizens attended.
Meetings are now open to the public. Complete audio/video is available on the
City's website or can be requested from the City Clerk's office.
A.)
   Mayor Joseph P. Hatem called the meeting to order at 6:03 p.m. and welcomed
everyone to the meeting. He thanked everyone for attending the meeting.
B.)
   Mayor Hatem announced that Alderman Lowe Davis would be providing the
invocation. Alderman Davis said she would read a prayer that MLK gave at a
sermon in honor of the Martin Luther King, Jr. holiday.
C.)
   Mayor Hatem led the pledge of allegiance.
D.)   Public Comment:
John Nichols, Brunswick County Public Utilities Director,  addressed the Board.
He thanked the Board and City of Southport for partnering with the County. The
County looks forward to working through the utility merger. He stated that in
2017, they discovered that Gen X was present in the Cape Fear River. They have
to retrofit the existing capacity and the best path moving forward. The low-
pressure reverse osmosis plant was the best fit, The project is a bit behind,
but it is still moving along. The County considered the cost and considered
revenue to calculate the rates. The County is seeking damages to the
organizations for the contaminants, but it is still not resolved. If there are
any specific comments or questions, he is happy to help answer questions the
Board might have.
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller summarized that the increase in rates has to do with
the investment towards the osmosis plant. Mr. Nichols said that was correct.
Alderman Allen asked when the plant was expected to be up and running. Mr.
Nichols explained that because of the Covid pandemic and a few other issues, it
will likely be finished in 2024.
Mayor Hatem thanked Mr. Nichols for attending the meeting and working with the
City regarding the wastewater treatment plant. Mr. Nichols thanked the City.
Lora Sharkey stated that she had two comments. She attended the Board retreat
and thought about a few things since then. The first topic is the
competitiveness of salaries. Citizens like to have familiarity with staff, and
it is important to retain successful staff. She proposes a three-pronged
approach that includes providing a living wage for full-time staff, routine
salary surveys, and the pay for performance program. Ms. Sharkey wanted to
propose to our State Representative to help us construct a sidewalk on Howe
Street. She proposes that the sidewalk on Howe Street should be moved back up
to the top priorities. The City already has Capital Improvement funding in the
budget that would help. Ms. Sharkey thinks that Representative Miller would be
happy to help.
E.)
   Mayor Hatem stated that two items from the consent agenda would be added to
the new business of the agenda. The contracts for the fiscal impact studies
will become Item 7, and the change order for the Park Avenue Extension
Stormwater project will be moved to Item 8. After a motion by Mayor Pro-tem
Mosteller and seconded by Alderman Lombardi, the Board approved the revised
agenda as presented with the two changes. All ayes. Motion carried.
Mayor Joseph P. Hatem read the ethics statement.
Mayor Hatem read through the list of items on the Consent Agenda and explained
the added item in more detail. Alderman Alt asked Attorney Mike Isenberg if
there was a conflict of interest regarding his position at the Episcopal Church
because of the item on the agenda. Alderman Davis also asked if there was a
conflict given her background with the Episcopal Church. Alderman Carroll asked
whether his role with Up Your Arts created a conflict of interest with the
Episcopal Church item. Attorney Mike Isenberg said that he finds no issue with
their participation in that item.
F.)   Approval of Consent Agenda
   1.   Minutes of Regular Meeting December 9, 2021
   2.   Authorization for Staff to Secure Bids for a Street Sweeper
A motion was made by Alderman Lombardi and seconded by Alderman Alt to approve
the consent agenda. Motion carried. All ayes.
G.)   Special Recognition
   1.   Mayor Hatem stated that Southport has always celebrated Martin Luther
King Day. This year, some events are not taking place because of the pandemic.
Mayor Hatem read the proclamation encouraging everyone to participate in ways
that they can and celebrate the life and teachings of Dr. Martin Luther King,
Jr.
H.)    Agenda
   1.
   Thomas Lloyd approached the podium to review the Lookout Point Major
Subdivision. There was a copy of the plat shown on the Vibe Board. Although it
was hard to see from far away, it gave a general idea of the subdivision
request. Mr. Lloyd stated that the property is at the end of Lookout Point and
is owned by the Harper family. The applicants are asking to subdivide the
parcel into two lots of varying sizes. Water and sewer are already serving the
property. Mr. Lloyd stated that typically this would be a minor subdivision,
but because the applicants want to extend the road, it triggered a major
subdivision. With the addition of the cul de sac, the road frontage requirement
is met. There are special flood hazard areas and coastal wetlands on the
parcel. The applicants' project manager explained that the construction would
be outside those areas. And the applicants are working with all of the
associated agencies, including CAMA. The Planning Board recommended approving
the subdivision at their December meeting.
Alderman Lowe Davis asked the neighboring or adjoining property owners had been
notified. She said that she is reluctant to approve the subdivision without
their input. Alderman Allen clarified that it is an existing right of way.
Alderman Lombardi asked Mr. Lloyd if the neighboring properties have a say on
the matter? Mr. Lloyd said that they do not. And there is no requirement for
the neighboring properties to be notified. Attorney Mike Isenberg states that
except for the addition of the cul-de-sac, it is like an administrative
decision. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller asked if emergency services had approved the
turning radius.
Alderman Allen made a motion to approve the Lookout Point subdivision as
presented. Alderman Lombardi seconded. All ayes except for Alderman Davis.
Alderman Davis stated again that even though it is not required by law, she
thinks it would have been wise to notify the neighbors. Motion passes 5-1.
   2.
   The next item on the agenda was the possible St. Phillip's Episcopal Church
land swap. The City has been in the process of establishing a permanent
easement at St. Phillip's. The church was interested in a land swap. According
to the general statutes, the City is authorized to swap land, but they must
receive full and fair consideration for the property. The swap must be approved
by adopting a resolution. The church wants to enclose an area for the storage
of trash bins. The planning board was concerned about the future use of the old
City Hall building. Up Your Arts is currently using the building. If the land
swap was approved, the City might not have the space to complete renovations
and improvements to the building. The planning board suggested revisiting the
land swap after the City settled on the official use of the City hall building.
Alderman Lombardi said it looks like a tiny little sliver of property that is
probably no use to anyone. Alderman Davis asked if the City could enter into a
temporary easement for the area that already encroaches. Mayor Pro-tem
Mosteller stated that the land swap would not allow a good setback between the
church and the city hall building. It wouldn't even leave enough room for
scaffolding. She asked for the minutes to reflect that she does not think it is
a good idea for the current situation. Alderman Allen said that future boards
would handle it however they want. Mayor Hatem stated that the planning board
had given their recommendation. Possibilities in the future should not be
discussed tonight. Mayor Pro-tem made a motion not to proceed with the land
swap with St. Phillip's Episcopal Church. Alderman Lombardi seconded the
motion. All ayes except for Alderman Alt. Motion passes 5-1.
   3.
   Mayor Hatem stated that the next item on the agenda is to select a committee
to perform the interviews for the planning board positions. Historically, the
interview committee was comprised of the board liaisons and the board chair.
Mayor Hatem recommended continuing that process. Alderman Lombardi made a
motion for the board liaisons to serve on the interview committee for the
Planning Board. Alderman Davis seconded. All ayes. Motion carried.
   4.
   Mayor Hatem stated that the selection of the interview committee for the
Board of Adjustment was next on the agenda. Alderman Davis made a motion to
appoint the liaison, Alderman Lombardi, to the interview committee for the
Board of Adjustment. Alderman Allen seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   5.
   Mayor Hatem said that there has always been an excellent relationship with
Sunny Point. Sunny Point is the largest munition port in the nation, and they
protect and serve our operational capacities. He would like to appoint Alderman
Rich Alt to serve as the City of Southport's representative on the joint land
use committee with Sunny Point personnel and other local municipalities.
There also needs to be a new representative to ElectriCities. Mayor Hatem
stated that he would recommend that Alderman Rich Alt serve on that committee,
too. He said that he tries to match up the Board members' talents and skills
with organizations where they will do the best. A motion was made by Alderman
Allen and seconded by both Alderman Lombardi and Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller to
appoint Alderman Alt to serve on both ElectriCities and MOTSU JLUS (Military
Ocean Terminal Sunny Point Joint Land Use Study). All ayes. Motion carried.  
   6.
   City Manager Gordon Hargrove reviewed the status of water rates with
Brunswick County. The new rates were effective January 1st. As a wholesale
customer, our rates have increased by 80%. The increase is because of the
reverse osmosis plant and the expansion of the sewer plant. Without a rate
increase in Southport, the City would not have enough revenue to cover the
increases. The focus of the new rate schedule is on tiered use and
conservation. Mr. Hargrove asked Finance Director Melanie Trexler to explain
the possible rates. Ms. Trexler said that the conversation to increase rates
first came up about four years ago. Now the City has to cover the expansion of
the sewer project, the reverse osmosis plant, and the increase in our cost. Our
projections have to be revamped. We have to cover our operating expenses and
our debt service payments. Several months ago, the rate committee started
analyzing the gallons included in the base rate. Now, instead of including 3000
gallons in the base tier, there are only 1000 gallons included. The less water
used, the less financial impact on the customer. Many projects need funding,
such as the closing costs of the sewer plant expansion, the reverse osmosis
plant, hurricane infiltration, a new truck needed in public utilities, and
investing in infrastructure. There has to be capital to cover those projects.
Ms. Trexler explained that she used the rate calculators at the UNC
Environmental Finance Center. If we don't raise our rates, the City will be in
the negative for the next several years.
Alderman Alt asked why irrigation rates were increasing when the wastewater
doesn't have to be processed? Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller explained that irrigation
is more of a luxury. It was 61% of the regular water usage. We have to have
drinking water. Increasing the irrigation rates helps to encourage
conservation. Alderman Alt said that he finds it confusing that the City is
trying to plant trees and encourage beautification projects, but we are
increasing our irrigation rates. Ms. Mosteller explained that the increase has
got to be somewhere. We need money for all of the capital projects and reserves
to work on other projects. Alderman Alt said that he understood better now;
these proposed rates keep rates for drinking water from increasing so much. He
asked why the City never joined in the lawsuit with Brunswick County for the
GenX contamination. Attorney Isenberg replied that any financial payments for
damages would not funnel down to the City. Alderman Allen reiterated that the
City doesn't have standing.
Attorney Isenberg asked Ms. Trexler to clarify the chart included in the Budget
Amendment. The first category was mislabeled; it should've had the heading
'FY22.' He said that was just a clerical error and doesn't change the substance
of the ordinance, so it was okay to proceed.
Alderman Allen said there are a few points to reiterate because all of this
information can get convoluted quickly. The City has to increase our rates
because the County has raised their rates because of their projects. There is a
cost with it. The sewer rates are increasing because the wastewater plant cost
has increased to $30 million. The rate committee did its best to balance out
the increases among the residents' usage. It is projected that water usage will
decline because of more efficient appliances and conservation. Alderman Davis
thanked the rate committee for all of their hard work. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller
said that this process was a combination of science and art. There was no real
formula. Staff and the rate committee will have to monitor the changes
quarterly to ensure that everything stays balanced and the tiered system works
well.
Mayor Hatem said it seems simple, but it is actually very complicated. Every
municipality has increased its rates because of the County's projects. All
customers-residential, commercial, nursing facilities, are being affected.
Alderman Allen made a motion to adopt the budget amendment and new utility rate
fee schedule as presented with the clerical change to the heading in the chart.
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller and Alderman Lombardi seconded the motion. All ayes.
Motion carried.
   7.
   Withers-Ravenel and the Development Planning & Financing Group (DPFG) have
submitted engagement letters to study the fiscal and environmental impacts that
the second phase of Indigo will have on the City. Withers-Ravenel will focus
more on the impacts on the City's infrastructure, and they will create a cost-
benefit analysis model to help visualize the impacts of the development.
Withers-Ravenel has estimated their cost would be $42,750.00.
DPFG will focus more on fiscal, economic, feasibility, and benefit-cost
modeling. They will consider the costs that the City absorbs and the additional
revenues generated. The estimated cost from DPFG is $28,150.00. Mr. Hargrove
stated that Bald Head Limited will split the cost with the City, and they will
also pay for the traffic impact analysis. Staff recommends that both contracts
be approved. Alderman Alt asked about the expansions to the various departments
because of the increased population. Mr. Hargrove said that the studies would
cover all of the expected growth in the departments, too. Alderman Davis asked
if the City would select the company that performs the traffic impact analysis?
Mr. Hargrove said that it was already decided in a previous meeting to continue
their work since one engineer had already provided the information. It is a
reputable company.
Alderman Allen said that he is grateful that staff is moving forward on these
analyses. He is aware of both companies, and they are top-notch. After
confirming the cost that will be divided, Alderman Allen made a motion to
approve the Withers-Ravenel and Development Planning & Financing Group
contracts. Alderman Alt seconded. All ayes. Motion carried.
   8.
   Mr. Hargrove explained that a change order is needed for the Park Avenue
Extension stormwater project. Initially, the contractor provided an estimate
for the specifications they thought would be needed. But when they got into the
ground, they discovered that the pipes were varying in size, and the 15" lines
that were ordered, would not complete the project. The change has nothing to do
with the contractor's competency, so the City would be remiss if we charged it
back to Hickman Utilities. Alderman Lombardi asked what the City would do with
all of the 15" line that we ordered. Tom Stanley, the Public Services Director,
said that we have an excess of 500 feet of 15" pipe. We will be able to use the
pipe for other projects. Alderman Carroll asked if the City had any
documentation of the existing stormwater infrastructure. Mr. Stanley stated
that we do not have any documentation for stormwater. Alderman Allen made a
motion to approve the change order as presented. Alderman Lombardi seconded the
motion. All ayes. Motion carried.
Committee Reports
Alderman Allen had no committee reports to share. Mayor Hatem said that we
would be hearing from Alderman Carroll and the 4th of July committee soon. And
we will be hearing from Alderman Alt soon regarding ElectriCities and the JLUS.
Alderman Davis said that the Forestry Committee met recently. The twelve trees
will be picked up from the nursery in February. These trees will not be planted
on private property. The Forestry committee would love to hear from residents
who would like live oaks planted.
Alderman Lombardi reported that the Beautification volunteers met the past
Saturday. They have begun waterproofing trashcans. He expressed his utmost
gratitude to the volunteers. They are so dedicated and come out to help even in
the rain. The Board of Adjustment will be meeting on January 24th, 2022, at 4:
30 p.m. Rivermist has adopted NC211 and Dosher Cutoff. The residents of
Rivermist are meeting Saturday at the clubhouse to start their cleanup efforts.
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller reported that the final test lightbulb has arrived.
Hopefully, BEMC will install it in the next couple of weeks. There is no news
from the Planning Board except their meeting on January 20, 2022, at 6:00 p.m.
at the Community Building. The Parks and Recreation Department is still waiting
for the NC Department of Environmental Quality to approve the site plan at
Taylor Park.
Manager's Report
Manager Gordon Hargrove reported that the Taylor Park will be constructed in
two phases. The first phase will include a dog park, restrooms, shelters, and
the parking lot. The second phase for the City dock is in the permitting
process. Mr. Hargrove also explained that Code Enforcement (Chris Martin) is
shadowing Thomas Lloyd to prepare to take over as the Forestry committee's
staff advisor.
Mayor's Report
Mayor Hatem thanked City staff and the Manager for putting the Board retreat
together. He also thanked the Board members for their participation. He said
that the Board considers many ideas and then makes a strategic plan. Millions
of dollars are needed to complete the projects. He reminded the public that
being fully vaccinated now means that you have had both regular shots and the
booster shot. The number of people who are testing positive has been increasing
again. In addition, the flu and RSV are going around. If you are an essential
worker and are exposed, you should quarantine for five days and receive a
negative test result before going back to work.
Mayor Hatem explained a great program taking place on February 11, 2022. A
Night to Shine is an unforgettable prom experience for special needs young
adults. It is sponsored by the Tim Tebow Foundation and is a virtual experience
available worldwide. The website for more information is
www.bcnighttoshine.com. It promises to be a night to remember.
Mayor Hatem stated that he received a letter of appreciation from James and
Sharon Yarborough. In their letter, they expressed their heartfelt gratitude
for emergency responders and the staff at Dosher Hospital. Their carbon
monoxide alarm went off, and shortly after, Sharon Yarborough developed a
headache. The emergency responders arrived and asked them to evacuate their
house while looking for the problem. Mrs. Yarborough was transferred to the
hospital. It seems that their fireplace was faulty and was causing the natural
gas leak. Overall, the Yarborough's learned a lot. They wanted to say thanks
but did not have everyone's name who was involved. The Yarborough's also
enclosed a check for $1000.00 for the Fire/Ems departments. Mayor Hatem is
grateful that it turned out well.
Staff reports are included in the Board packets.
Board Comments
Alderman Allen said that the retreat held on January 11th was very informative.
One topic of conversation was about paid parking in Southport. He emphasized
that no decisions have been made yet, and the Board will not take that decision
lightly and welcome public input. The second comment that he wanted to make was
regarding an editorial in the State Port Pilot that compared the most recent
mayoral election to the January 6, 2021 attack on the Capitol building in
Washington, D.C. Alderman Allen said that the comparison is unwarranted and
irresponsible. He stated that it should be withdrawn, and the writer should
apologize.
Alderman Carroll thanked the rate committee for their hard work. He said that
it is important to protect those who are most vulnerable and plan for the
future. He concluded that he looks forward to serving on the 4th of July
committee.
Alderman Alt thanked the City staff and Manager, who have gone out of their way
to help educate him. And thanks to the Board. As a new Board member, he will
likely ask many questions. He stated that if expensive changes are going to be
made involving the public, he wants to be prepared.
Alderman Davis said that she had nothing further to say.
Alderman Lombardi expressed his gratitude again to all the volunteers in the
City. He doesn't want them to be overlooked.
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller thanked Ms. Trexler and her staff for their patience.
Then she read the following statement:
   "Starting February first, the new rate structure will represent significant
increases in water and sewer bills for homes and businesses that have higher
levels of utilization.
A few years ago, we started funding the Neighbors-4-Neighbors program to help
neighbors with financial challenges and reduce the monthly impact of the
increased water and sewer rates.
This fund is administered through the Brunswick Family Services non-profit. I
would like us to review the number of citizens participating to make sure this
resource is being utilized. We should also see if we can raise the amount
offered to our citizens and to see if the qualifying income can be raised.
For example, the guidelines for the CARES ACT funding to determine income
eligibility is higher than other data I've seen.
It is important that the available funds are utilized to the extent possible,
and I would like to ask the City Manager to facilitate a review with Brunswick
Family Services of Southport's Neighbors-4-Neighbors program and make
recommendations if, within the budget, eligibility can be broadened, or the
amount of aid could be increased."
Adjourn
Mayor Hatem said that it had been a good meeting. These meetings are the only
time when you typically see the full Board. Thanks for all of the hard work
that goes into the Board packets. He stated that the article in the State Port
Pilot was shocking, but we move forward. After a motion made by Alderman Davis
and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller, Mayor Hatem adjourned the meeting at
8:20 p.m. All ayes. Motion carried.   
 
                           _______________________________________
                           Joseph P. Hatem, M.D., M.P.H
                           Mayor, City of Southport
__________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
FEBRUARY 10, 2022
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING February 10th, 2022
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
6:00 p.m.
Present:    Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor Pro Tem Karen Mosteller, Aldermen
Thomas Lombardi, Rich Alt, Lowe Davis, Robert Carroll, and John Allen.
Staff Present:   Gordon Hargrove, City Manager
   Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
   Thomas Lloyd, Developmental Services Director
   Randy Jones, Communications/Tourism Director
   Lisa Anderson, Asst. Communications Director
   Allayna Dail, Tourism and Communications Administrator
   Heather Hemphill, Parks and Recreation Director
   Kate Marshall, Animal Control
   Matt Burgess, Police Dept Detective
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   Ralph Treadway, EMS Battalion Chief
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
   Tom Stanley, Public Services Director   
Others Present: Tish Hatem, Will Hewitt, Jenna Fontaine, Donnie Joyner, Jason
Robbins, Alex Lapinsky with McGill and Associates, Eliot Duke with the State
Port Pilot, and many other interested citizens attended.
Meetings are now open to the public. Complete audio/video is available on the
City's website or can be requested from the City Clerk's office.
Mayor Joseph P. Hatem called the meeting to order at 6:01 p.m. and welcomed
everyone to the meeting. He thanked everyone for attending the meeting.
Mayor Hatem announced that Mr. Timothy Davis, with the First Baptist Church of
Southport, would be providing the invocation.
Mayor Hatem led the pledge of allegiance.
Public Comment:
Mayor Hatem explained that the public comment period was mandated in the
general statutes and must occur at least once a month. It is simply a forum for
people to express themselves freely.
Ms. Dutton called Barbara Burrell to the podium. She stated her name and
address, 6284 Cattail Court. Ms. Burrell said that she was attending as a
member of the League of Women Voters who, favor the Equal Rights Amendment.
Equality of rights under the law will not be denied based on sex. Women did not
have the right to vote for a long time. For seventy years, women were fighting
for their rights. Women finally gained the right to vote in 1920. After
revisiting the Equal Rights Amendment throughout the years, we finally have the
¾ of states supporting the ERA. If enough municipalities in North Carolina
support the ERA, the state will have no choice but to support the ERA on a
federal level.
Ms. Dutton asked Ms. Sue Marsh to approach the podium for public comment. As
Vice President for the League of Women Voter of the Lower Cape Fear, she
supports the resolution to urge the General Assembly to ratify the ERA. The ERA
affirms that women have the same rights as men constitutionally. No sex
discrimination. Sex discrimination is the only type that is not protected in
the constitution. Twenty-four words make all the difference.
Jim Newman approached the podium and said that he and his wife purchased a
house in Southport five years ago., They were told that it was a quaint, small
town. It is not small. Southport provides fantastic goods and services. He
called 911 for medical emergency services. Officer Riley responded within
seconds and called EMS and Fire. His wife was taken to the hospital. He thanked
the City of Southport for having such excellent services. Mayor Hatem stated
that because of the level of service his wife needed, she was not taken to
Dosher Memorial Hospital. They saved time by appraising the situation first and
sending her to the appropriate hospital.
Mayor Hatem stated he would like to add one item to the agenda to consider
purchasing a plaque for the John Smith Cemetery. After a motion by Mayor Pro-
tem Mosteller and a second by Alderman Allen, the Board approved the agenda as
presented with the addition of the plaque consideration. All ayes. Motion
carried.
Mayor Joseph P. Hatem read the ethics statement.
Mayor Hatem stated that he would like to share more information regarding
ethics. It means promoting an ethical local government and implementing adopted
policies. Elected officials should be hands-off and trust staff to evaluate
proposals and write recommendations. Beware of projects that are rushed to
council. We are all committed to the good of Southport. He summarized the roles
of elected officials, Mayor, manager, and citizens. At the workshop, the Board
received a copy of the Code of Ethics. He recalled that in medical school, he
was told to dress and act like he was going to visit his grandmother. A quote
from the UNC School of Government states that corruption is 57% less likely in
the Council-Manager form of government. He encouraged the Board of Aldermen to
read the Code of Ethics. Each elected official must complete two hours of
ethics training within two years of the election or new term. Mayor Hatem said
to honor the opinions of others and the freedom of speech. The Board should
recognize that individual Board members are not allowed to represent the entire
Board without permission. He reiterated that he doesn’t just read the ethics
statement every month, that it is of the utmost importance. Mayor Hatem read
the regular ethics statement from the agenda.
At that time, Alderman Lowe Davis stated that she would recuse herself from
voting on the City’s purchase of a plaque for the John Smith Cemetery since she
serves on the cemetery board.
Approval of Consent Agenda
Minutes of Special Board Workshop January 11th, 2022
Minutes Regular Board of Aldermen Meeting January 13th, 2022
Conflict-of-Interest Policy Update
Annexation Request ANX #22-01
Adoption of Updated NC Retention Schedule
Mayor Hatem gave a summary of the Consent Agenda items.  A motion was made by
Alderman Lombardi and seconded by both Alderman Davis and Mayor Pro-tem
Mosteller to approve the consent agenda. Motion carried. All ayes.
Special Recognition
Mayor Hatem invited everyone in attendance from the Black History Symposium
Committee to come forward. He read the Recognition of Black History Month
proclamation and thanked the cemetery committee for serving.
Alderman Davis explained that the John Smith Cemetery has recently been
included in the National Register of Historic Places. The City does not
maintain the cemetery, but to honor the history, the City could purchase the
bronze plaque that costs $1,581.25. Mayor Hatem agreed that the cemetery is an
integral part of our history. In October 2021, the museum opening took place,
and it was a wonderful event. The cemetery is a wonderful, spiritual place.
Purchasing the plaque would be a great way to promote historic preservation.
Alderman Allen asked if we knew where the funds would come from? Mayor Hatem
said that the Board has some discretionary funds to cover the cost . Alderman
Allen motioned to approve the City’s purchase of a bronze plaque for the John
Smith Cemetery. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion
carried.  Mayor Hatem asked the members of the cemetery foundation to stand for
recognition. Two members of the foundation thanked the City for supporting
them.
Agenda
Mayor Hatem welcomed Mr. Alex Lapinsky, with McGill and Associates, to the
Board meeting. He stated that the state erosion permit was in place, and the
stormwater permit would be resubmitted tomorrow morning. They plan to go out
for bids on March 1 st . Bids will be opened on the 15 th, and a contract will
be awarded on March 16 th . There will be approximately 90-days of
construction, and the completion date will be approximately August 13 th if
everything works out.
At the January meeting, Mayor Hatem appointed Alderman Rich Alt to serve as an
alternate to the ElectriCities board. Ms. Dutton performed the oath of office
for Rich Alt and his position.
Alderman Davis said that the League of Women Voters is leading the charge for
obtaining the approval of the ERA. She said that there have been many
misinterpretations, but there are no provisions in the constitution that
protect women. Mayor Hatem asked Alderman Davis to read the resolution. After a
motion by Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller and seconded by Alderman Allen, the Board
approved the Resolution in Support of the Equal Rights Amendment. All ayes.
Motion carried.  
Mayor Hatem explained that the next item was a letter to the County regarding
the utilities at Indigo Plantation Phase 2. The Mayor said that the water and
sewer would be provided by the County no matter what type of development was
approved, either PUD or R-20. Regionalization of services is something that the
City is already working towards. City Manager Hargrove read the letter aloud.
He said that he needed authorization from the Board to send the letter.
Alderman Lombardi motioned to authorize the City Manager to send the letter to
the County regarding the utilities at Indigo Phase 2. Alderman Davis seconded
the motion. All ayes. Motion carried .
Mayor Hatem asked the City Clerk to review the process of accepting
applications for the Planning Board. Ms. Dutton said that this round of
applicants was one of the largest pool of applicants accepted. The notice was
posted three times in the State Port Pilot and was on the City’s website for
over a month. Mayor Hatem asked Alderman Allen to discuss the interviews and
make the recommendation to the Board of Aldermen. Alderman Allen said that he,
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller, and Planning Board Chair Tish Hatem conducted
interviews. He said that there were so many excellent candidates, and he
encouraged them all to keep applying to volunteer with the City. The
recommendation is to move alternate Sue Hodgin to a regular member, reappoint
Richard Sloan, and appoint Fred Fiss as the alternate. Mr. Fiss is a long time
resident who possesses a wealth of relevant experience in the private sector.
As the owner of a construction/renovation business, he is well acquainted with
the Unified Development Ordinance and the development process. This experience
will prove invaluable on our Planning Board. The choices were unanimous.
Alderman Allen made a motion with those recommendations. Alderman Lombardi
seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried. Mayor Hatem thanked everyone
that applied.
Mayor Hatem asked Development Services Director Thomas Lloyd to review the next
agenda item. Mr. Lloyd said that he was providing an update on the Brunswick
County Comprehensive Transportation Plan status. The plan addresses the
potential transportation needs of the County and the municipalities in the
County, based on expected growth and development. The plan provides multi-modal
maps identifies deficiencies and proposed improvements. It also considers the
local needs for the various areas, but it is not fiscally constrained. The 20-
30 plan addresses long-term goals that will help us apply for grants and ask
for funding from the NCDOT. Once the study is in draft format, the Board will
be asked to review the plan and adopt the plan for the City of Southport. The
last time information was provided to the Board was before the survey to the
public. There were over 7000 surveys submitted, which was the most public input
that NCDOT has ever seen from a CTP plan. Once the draft plan is complete, it
will be available online for the public, and notice will be sent to the public.
Some of the recommendations for the City include bicycle and pedestrian
improvement. There are no plans to widen Howe Street. A resident, Jenna
Fontaine, asked whether there were any rail systems or park and ride locations?
Mr. Lloyd said that as far as he knows, there is no plan for a rail system, but
park and rides are being considered. Alderman Allen asked about any planned
greenway trails. Mr. Lloyd stated that a greenway trail is proposed to connect
Oak Island, St. James, Boiling Springs Lakes, and Southport. He will be
providing an update on the greenway next month.
Mayor Hatem stated that the Board had discussed several aspects of the yacht
basin pedestrian corridor, including lighting, traffic, and protecting the
yacht basin. He called on the City Manager and Mayor Pro-tem to explain
further. Mr. Gordon Hargrove said that it had been many years since the yacht
basin was dredged. Much of the City dock is surrounding by mud at low tide.
Southport would qualify for a 66/33 % cost share. The disposal of spoil
material is a concern. Hopefully, the Corps of Engineers will consider
approving the City’s application to deposit spoil material onto a Corps dredge
site. Mr. Hargrove asked for the Board’s authority to research different
options. Mayor Pro-tem added that the yacht basin has historical significance
as a working waterfront and is a core economic driver. 2009 was the last time
that it was dredged. Alderman Davis made a motion to give authority to the City
Manager to research options working with Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller. Alderman
Lombardi seconded the motion. Alderman Alt asked for clarification about what a
private-public partnership would entail. Ms. Mosteller said that it would not
be possible to define a public/private partnership without doing more research
to discover what options are available. Alderman Alt asked if the marina area
would be included in the project. Mayor Pro-tem stated that the state funding
could not be used to dredge private property. Mr. Alt said he wanted to make
sure that we weren’t setting a precedent. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller reiterated
the need to complete the research to understand the options . Mayor Hatem
called for a vote on the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.
Committee Reports
Alderman Allen had no committee reports to share.
Alderman Carroll said that he has met with the 4 th of July Committee, and
there are many great things in store. He was very impressed by the volunteers.
Alderman Alt said he is in the education phase on the two committees he is
serving on. He will have more to report once he gets more familiar with MOTSU
and ElectriCities.
Alderman Davis stated that the Forestry Committee would be planting next month
on those chosen public properties. Arbor Day is coming up in April, and there
will be some events, but not the magnitude of years past. One program they are
working on is a map of some of the remarkable trees in Southport.
Alderman Lombardi said that the Beautification committee met the previous
Saturday. They are almost done waterproofing the trashcans, and they are
currently trying to find ways to replace the existing trashcans because most of
them are towards the end of their usefulness.
Mayor Pro-tem made the following comments: The Rate Committee will be meeting
on March 2nd, 2022, at the Indian Trail Meeting Hall at 11:00 a.m. “The process
to update the Parks and Recreation and Open Space Master Plan has begun. The
staff has contracted with Dr. Jim Herstine to lead this effort. Dr. Herstine
served as a professor in Parks and Recreation and has recently retired from UNC
Wilmington. Dr. Herstine was the subject matter expert for our previous master
plan.
Besides the obvious need for planning, one of the important reasons we need to
update the Parks and Recreation and Open Space Master Plan every five years is
grant applications. There’s a lot of competition for grant money, and grants
are typically awarded on a point system. For example, North Carolina’s Parks
and Recreation Trust Fund, known as PART-F, awards 20 points to a grant
applicant for having a current Master Plan. In part, Southport was able to
compete and was awarded a PART-F grant for over $400,000 to do the Phase One
Taylor Field project because PART-F credited our submittal with 20 points for
having a Master Plan.
Citizen participation is critical for the success of the master plan update
process. Surveys will be sent by mail to the residents of Southport, and you
will be able to return your completed survey by mail or complete it online. Our
Parks and Rec Director, Heather Hemphill, asked me to emphasize the importance
of completing the survey. There will also be public workshops with discussion.
Again, citizen input will drive the success and outcome of this process and the
planning goals in Southport’s 2023 to 2028 Parks and Recreation and Open Space
Master Plan.
With regard to the streetlight committee, the city has received the
demonstration streetlight fixtures, and the installation is scheduled for
tomorrow. The demonstration will include P-20 model fixtures in different color
temperatures 4000, 3000, and 2700 kelvin.
Once the installation is complete, we will put a notice on the City website to
direct citizens to the demonstration location, so everyone will have an
opportunity to see the differences in the color temperatures and consider
preferences. The demo lights will be labeled A, B, C, and D and will be the
first four streetlights on Southwind Way off of Stuart Ave. in the Hammocks
neighborhood.
During the previous public discussion about streetlight policy, we decided that
we would plan a workshop for a more in-depth look at the draft language in the
streetlight policy update.
There will be one more streetlight committee meeting to re-address comments
from the last public discussion, and then we will schedule the workshop. Both
meetings will be noticed on the City website, and the public is invited to
participate.
In the meantime, citizens may reach out to Alderman Davis, Alderman Carroll, or
myself with any questions or concerns regarding streetlight policy.”
Manager's Report
Manager Gordon Hargrove thanked Finance Director Melanie Trexler for preparing
the package for a grant application. He also wanted to recognize several Public
Works staff for fixing a water leak overnight recently. That is dedication to
the City. The City dock phase 2 is upcoming. The Kingsley Park repairs came in
higher than expected, and they had to resubmit. The sad news for the City is
that City Attorney Mike Isenberg will be retiring in the next couple of months.
Congratulations to him; it is well-deserved. We will be looking for a new
attorney.
Alderman Allen asked for clarification about the second phase of the City dock.
Mr. Hargrove asked Heather Hemphill, the Parks and Recreation Director, to
speak about the dock project. Ms. Hemphill said that phase 2 consists of the
main part of the dock that comes from the land to connect with the new part of
Mayor's Report
Mayor Hatem reminded everyone that February 25-February 27 th is the Black
History Symposium. Staff The State Port Pilot reported about the Night to Shine
event that he described in January. The stormwater project in front of Oliver’s
will be starting on the 14 th . He thanked Tom Stanley for trimming some trees.
Mayor Hatem asked everyone to consider Olympic athletes. They spend so many
years training for the Olympics, only to fail while competing. He compared the
City. It takes years for a City to get where we need to be. Technology is
improving; little by little, projects are being completed. Covid cases are
coming down now, but continue wearing your masks and getting your vaccines.
Don’t lose hope. Happy Valentine’s Day, and enjoy the Superbowl.
Board Comments
Alderman Allen reminded everyone of the board workshop on February 17 th . The
workshop will continue the strategic planning for the upcoming years. The
public is invited to attend.
Alderman Carroll addressed the Planning Board appointment process. She said
that the Board of Aldermen appointed the liaisons to the interview committee at
the January meeting. Everyone who applied was interviewed. He suggested that if
anyone in the public has questions, reach out to staff or a board member to
explain the process. He added that those individuals who were not selected
should not be discouraged. All the applicants were impressive.
Alderman Alt said that he is looking forward to the workshop on the 17 th . The
City has been more reactive than proactive historically. On the 17 th , the
Board will hear about some significant electrical expansions and upgrades. We
need public input and comments. The workshop will be live-streamed.
Alderman Davis reminded everyone that the Southport Historical Society will be
hosting the Black History Symposium. A link is available on their website. She
said that she is the second liaison to the Parks and Recreation Committee. It
seems like a lifetime since Ms. Ginger Harper donated the property. There has
been a lot of work done behind the scenes, thanks to Heather Hemphill. Alderman
Davis said that she receives a lot of questions about Indigo Phase 2. She wants
the public to know that the ball is not in their court yet. At this phase, it
is not appropriate for her or any board members to participate in any
discussions or plan reviews.
Alderman Lombardi expressed his gratitude to the volunteers on all the
committees. They are unbelievable.
Mayor Pro-tem Karen Mosteller made the following comments:
“One of the best things about being a small town is that we have the
opportunity to be our best selves. Because the citizens in Southport value our
pets and our wildlife, Southport’s Animal Welfare Ordinance is one of the best
in North Carolina.
This Saturday, February 12 th from 10:00 a.m. till noon, make plans to join
Kate Marshall, our Animal Protective Services Officer, at the Indian Trail
Meeting Hall at 113 W. Moore Street, next to the Library, for an “Introduction
to Community Cats” workshop.
Come and learn about community outdoor cats: their history and their behavior,
the Trap-Neuter-Return program known as TNR, and how to care for community cat
colonies
This is a free workshop sponsored by Paws-Ability and the City of Southport.
This workshop is open to the public, and registration is not required.
A few years ago, I inherited two outside porch cats, and I plan to attend this
workshop. It’s free, and it’s this Saturday, February 12 th starting at 10:00
a.m. at the Indian Trail Meeting Hall. Where the mysteries of community outdoor
cats will be revealed.
Again, we want to acknowledge our gratitude for the citizens and neighbors that
were willing to volunteer to serve on the Planning Board. Please continue to
participate and attend the Planning Board meetings. The Planning Board has a
public comment period at each meeting and citizen participation is vital to a
successful planning process.
“Volunteering is the ultimate exercise in democracy. We may vote in elections
once a year, but when you volunteer, you vote every day about the kind of
community you want to live in”.
I would like to take a moment to recognize and say thank you to the outgoing
Planning Board Chair Tish Hatem, for 15 years of service in our community.
I first met Tish Hatem several years ago, at the applicant interview when I
applied to be a member of the Planning Board. Since that time I have witnessed
first-hand, Ms. Hatem’s seemingly boundless energy focused on serving the
community she loves. While Ms. Hatem is stepping off the Planning Board, as a
board member of other community non-profits, I know that Tish will continue to
commit her time and talents to help make our community better.
For a lot of reasons Southport is an awesome place to call home. Made better
because we are a city of volunteers. I’m so very proud and humbled to be part
of a community with volunteers like Tish Hatem. Thank you.”
Adjourn
Mayor Hatem said that it had been a good meeting, and he was thankful for those
in attendance and those watching from home. After a motion made by Alderman
Lombardi and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller, Mayor Hatem adjourned the
meeting at 7:52 p.m. All ayes. Motion carried.   
                   _____________________________________________   
                             Joseph P. Hatem, M.D., M.P.H
_________________________________
Mayor, City of Southport
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
FEBRUARY 17, 2022
SPECIAL WORKSHOP MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  SPECIAL WORKSHOP MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING FEBRUARY 17, 2022
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT: Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor Pro-tem Karen Mosteller; Aldermen Tom
Lombardi, Lowe Davis,  John Allen, Robert Carroll, and Rich Alt
STAFF PRESENT:
Gordon Hargrove, City Manager   Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
Ralph Treadway, EMS Battalion Chief   Randy Jones, Tourism & Comm. Director
Kate Marshall, Animal Protective Services   Lisa Anderson, Assistant Comm.
Director
Allayna Dail, Tourism & Comm Administrator   Ellie Pettinger, Electrical
Superintendent
Tom Stanley, Public Services Director   Thomas Lloyd, Develop. Serv. Director
Melanie Trexler, Finance Director   Todd Corning, Police Chief
Tony Burke, Police Major   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
Heather Hemphill, Parks and Rec. Director   
OTHERS PRESENT: Tish Hatem, Lora Sharkey, Deborah Fish, Mike Blue, Tim from
Brunswick Electric Membership Corporation, and a couple of concerned citizens.
Call to OrderQ
Mayor Hatem called the special workshop to order at 9:03 a.m. He welcomed
everyone in attendance and those watching virtually.
Invocation
Alderman Lowe Davis gave the invocation.
Pledge of Allegiance
Mayor Hatem led everyone in the Pledge of Allegiance.
Mayor’s Opening Comments
Mayor Hatem said many topics would be discussed today, including electric
services with BEMC, Bee City USA, pesticides, strategic planning, and capital
improvements. He thanked Randy Jones, Lisa Anderson, and Allayna Dail for
setting the meeting space up and for technology advancements during the
meetings.
Mayor Hatem compared painting a canvas and how the Board plans and decides
which projects should move forward. Southport is the waterfront for Brunswick
County and a destination in the state, and we want to preserve the natural
resources. Mayor Hatem said he wonders if the leaders of Southport in 1792
could envision where we are today? The Board’s job is to set the vision and
plan for the future.
Approval of Agenda
There were no changes to the agenda, as presented. After a motion  was made by
Alderman Allen and seconded by Alderman Lombardi, the agenda was approved as
presented.
BEMC Presentation
Mayor Hatem asked Mr. Ellie Pettinger to introduce the guests from BEMC. Mr.
Pettinger said that his goal is to be as descriptive as possible to see
everything that he is requesting. There is a need for upgrades and additional
infrastructure to prepare for all the proposed growth and development. He
introduced the representatives from BEMC.
Tim Tippet spoke to the Board first. He introduced Deborah Fish, a private
engineer who has been working with Southport since 2005. She does a lot of
communicating with the City and others involved in projects. Mike Blue was just
promoted to Regional Manager. Tim Tippet is the Systems Operations Manager of
BEMC. The City asked BEMC for proposals in 2001-2002. The first time TIM came
to help the City was in 1988. BEMC has been in business for over 80 years. They
have 200 miles of transmission line, 30 substations, and over two hundred
employees on the payroll. They have a GIS and a Finance department willing to
help Southport. Mike Blue went on to speak about upcoming projects. Mr. Blue
said he has worked closely with Ellie Pettinger and Randy Jones to put the
Christmas decorations up. The Lord Street project is almost completed. The Cape
Fear-River Road project had a rotten pole and other issues. They are putting
together a plan to put the service underground. They estimate the project will
cost $332,000.
The service conversion to underground on River Drive will cost approximately
$580,000. Trenching costs are 50% less than boring the service. We would have
to get permission from homeowners to trench. Alderman Allen asked if there was
money already in the budget to cover those two projects? Mr. Pettinger said
that there is $118,000 on a line item to order the materials. The project would
start in this budget year and conclude during the next budget year.
Focus shifted to the FY22/23 work plan. The conversion of side streets from W.
Bay to W. Brown Street, including Brunswick and N. Caswell, will cost about
$1.2 million. Next would be E. Moore Street from S. Atlantic Avenue to Cape
Fear, at the cost of $600,000. The FY2025/2026 work plan consists of converting
E. Moore Street from S. Atlantic to Cape Fear at $1.5 million.
And finally, during the FY2027/2028, the conversion to underground from Howe
Street from Moore to W. Brown and moving the primary feeder would cost
approximately $1.5 million.
The BEMC representatives discussed all of the potential growth expected in
Southport. Deborah Fish said that sometimes the City installs the primary
infrastructure, and the developers install the secondary. If there is no
current electrical service in the area, the developers sometimes pay the
expense of service at their developments. There are (48) townhome units
proposed for Rob Gandy Blvd. A new feeder must be built to provide service to
Osprey Landing. It will cost $100,000 to build the feeder, and it will be a
three-phase line. Ms. Fish explained that there are also expenses included in
the budget that are not for any particular project, just supplies needed. For
example, for unsafe poles, because they are rotten, or limb trimming.
For new development, they were asked to identify the rough cost. It is up to
the City and the developers to determine who will pay for the work. There is
one feeder that Duke Energy owns that needs upgrading at $325,000. BEMC has a
total of (5) feeders in the City.
The Indigo Project has two viable options to provide electrical service. The
first option includes a new substation or delivery point, the upgrade to the
Duke Energy feeder, 3-phase feeders to back up the existing substation and
would cost approximately $3 million. The second option is to upgrade the
existing Duke transformers to 30MVA, upgrade the Duke feeder, and add (2)
feeders from spare bays. The cost would be approximately the same. Ms. Fish
explained that the developer would pay for any required upgrades. But if we
want to use the substation as a backup to the City, the cost could be shared.
It would be up to the City to determine how much the developer would be
responsible for. Mr. Hargrove said that there is a zoom meeting scheduled with
the legal team that would be helping us write the development agreement.
Hopefully, we will have more information after that meeting. Ms. Fish said that
their job was to find out HOW to serve them.
Ellie Pettinger explained that he would be asking for a few things on the
budget this upcoming year. He requires funding for switches, maintenance
contracts, software, extra electrical poles, load management switches,
infrastructure, leasing his work vehicle, and possibly replacing his computer.
Mr. Pettinger is also working with Ms. Trexler about hiring new personnel. He
is looking at May 16, 2024, as a retirement date, and he would like to get
someone hired to start training in preparation.
Mayor Hatem called for a fifteen-minute break at 9:59 a.m.
G.)      Pesticides
   Mayor Hatem called the meeting back to order at 10:21 a.m. He summarized
some of the infections that have been caused by insect bites, including yellow
fever in 1852. He introduced Mr. Jeffrey Brown, the Brunswick County Vector
Control Supervisor. Mr. Brown said that he has worked with pesticides for over
(40) years. He works a lot with David Kelly and has a great working
relationship with all of the municipalities in Brunswick County. Mr. Brown gave
a brief history of the conflict between man and mosquito. 1996 was the first
time an aerial plan to end mosquitoes was used. The West Nile Virus was
prominent in 1999, and the Zika virus in 2015. In 2017, Hurricane Florence
dumped excessive amounts of water in North Carolina, and the standing water
created an abundance of mosquitoes.
The Environmental Protection Agency authorizes the use of pesticides, and the
Center for Disease Control also works with post-disaster response. The NC
Department of Agriculture oversees pesticide licensing, annual training, annual
equipment calibration certification. Brunswick County has taught a workshop
every spring, and participants received continuing education credits and have
their equipment calibrated. FEMA also provides information.
Integrated Pest Management consists of several concepts: surveillance,
biological control, physical control, public education, larviciding, and
adulticiding. There are over 3000 species of mosquitoes in the world.
Mosquitoes have four stages of life: egg, larvae, pupae, and adult. When a
mosquito lays eggs, about half of them are female. Mr. Brown’s organization
speaks to HOA’s as requested and tries to do much public education. Some areas
are listed as “Do not spray areas.” Some people that have allergies to
petroleum can request not to spray. Pesticides must be labeled according to
federal law. The spray drift of pesticides is approximately 4.2 minutes.
Several parts of a label are required, including the active ingredients,
directions for use, storage and disposal instructions, and any dangers or
warnings.
Mr. Brown’s department collects data about rainfall, mosquito data, citizen
requests, larvicide, and adulticide applications. They can run that data to
help identify where the largest populations of mosquitoes are located. Woodland
pools present a problem in Southport, and they are treated with larvicide.
Ditches filled with water have not presented a huge problem in this area. They
use GIS to predict where mosquitoes might be located, but they physically walk
to confirm the locations.
He added that developing an Integrated Pest Control Plan is a very
individualized process.
Alderman Davis asked how long the pesticides stay in the air. Mr. Brown said
that the spray usually stays in the air for about 4.2 minutes. Sometimes one
spray is enough in any particular area, but sometimes, you would have to spray
every other day. A mosquito lives about three weeks, and the last week of the
life cycle, the potential to spread disease is the highest. Spraying only
affects adult mosquitos. More rain causes more mosquitoes, which causes a need
for more spraying.
There are (100) active beehives in Brunswick County and (5) active hives here
in Southport. We work with beekeepers. At the owner's request, spraying will
not take place near the hives. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller stated that butterflies
and pollinator bees are affected, too. Mr. Brown said that other aspects affect
the mosquitoes, including the phase of the moon, temperature, and time of day.
There are ways to moderate the mosquitoes by encouraging certain fish in the
bodies of water or specific plants. Mr. Brown said that humans had been around
for 30 million years, and humans have been around for about 3 million years.
Mosquitoes have a lot more experience in surviving. There was more discussion
about the drainage issues in Indigo.
Mr. Brown said that if residents are more sensitive to spraying, they will
avoid that home. The Board asked if the County could start mapping Southport to
identify those areas that could be treated. Alderman Alt said they are trying
to find a happy line between wholesale spraying and public health concerns.
Mayor Hatem said that a message would go out on Southport Connected before any
spraying occurred to notify the residents and what areas would be included.
There were no other questions. Mr. Brown thanked the Board for having him.
   David Kelly said that he has been doing this job for three years but worked
with others before obtaining his license. Because there is only him in that
position, it is hard for him to complete the surveillance and spraying required
to manage the program best. Last year, Mr. Kelly didn’t spray until the end of
the season. He noticed a problem at Indigo. Spraying does help, but Southport
also tries to be environmentally friendly. If he goes out to properties and at
least (7) mosquitoes land on his arm at once time, that constitutes a real
problem. At that point, he lets Randy Jones know to put a message out to the
public. There are (5) zones in the City. Usually, one or two zones are sprayed
at a time. Mosquito dunks can be purchased from Lowe’s, but the chemicals go
out with the water. Mayor Hatem suggested that the City might need more
personnel to help with the responsibilities. City Manager Gordon Hargrove said
that we have to use all the tools available to us, and we need to identify the
resources to help David Kelly do the best job possible. It is hard to find help
right now.
   City Clerk Dorothy Dutton presented information about the Bee City USA
program. She was contacted by a member of the Beautification Committee about
participating in the Bee City USA program. The program has a few requirements,
including signage, at least one educational presentation a year, progress
reports, and the use of an Integrated Pest Control Plan that prevents bee-
sensitive areas from being sprayed with pesticides. Currently, there are two
gardens that the City cannot spray- the pollinator garden and the community
garden. The Committee will purchase the required signage, maintain the gardens,
and host the community education program. The benefits of participation include
improving local food production, supporting small businesses, building
community, helping to ensure the survival of vital species and increasing
awareness of biological diversity. The resolution was included in the Board
agenda packets but will be included at the March meeting for consideration.
Alderman Lombardi stated that he had spoken with Sharon Salvaggio of the Xerces
Society about Bee City not interfering with the Cities spay program and will
not dictate any rules. They are willing to speak to us about mosquito
population prevention if the Board would like.
Mayor Hatem dismissed the Board for lunch at 11:54 a.m. The meeting was called
to order by Mayor Hatem at 12:51 p.m. Allayna Dail reminded the Board to speak
into their microphones directly.
H.)      Board Member Comments
   Alderman Davis wanted to speak to the Board about preserving some properties
around the City, including the huge tree at Rivermist. She has put together the
basis of a historic preservation program. It would be beneficial to the City to
try to preserve several properties. The property at the corner of E. Bay and
Kingsley is for sale, and the empty lot is historical and could be a part of a
conservation easement. She asked the Board to read through the information that
she provided. She would like the Mayor to designate Robert Carroll and herself
to research land easements.
She also said that bees could travel up to five miles a day. Even if pesticides
are not sprayed around the hives, chances are they will take it back to the
hive and poison other bees. Mayor Hatem authorized the further research of land
easements with Alderman Carroll.
   Alderman Carroll said that conservation easements are a fairly common
practice. He wanted to address a couple of things that have nothing to do with
today’s discussions. Mr. Richardson has contacted him and other Board members
about the potential kayak launch. He wanted to let Mr. Richardson know that
they hear him and are still working on the launch. Dredging is being discussed.
Alderman Carroll said that he is impressed by the amount of work that Mr. David
Kelly does. He also said that all the City staff is great, with so much
knowledge and experience. He is excited about the Bee City USA program. Then he
encouraged the public to contact any of the Board members; that is why they are
serving.
   Alderman Alt thanked Mr. Ellie Pettinger, the City staff, and the City
Manager for putting together the presentation on electricity. It is wise to
look at the future before we need the improvements. The presentation by Mr.
Jeffrey Brown was helpful, and he suggested that maybe the City could look into
hiring outside sources to help us spray.
   Alderman Allen did not have any comments at this time.
   Alderman Lombardi said that he feels like it is his duty to speak about
infrastructure again. The electrical components make it more complicated
because the City’s water and sewer infrastructure already has so much that
needs to be replaced or improved. In his mind, the water-sewer-electrical
infrastructure is just as crucial as the waterfront stabilization. He hopes
that the Board can designate funds for those projects. NC League of
Municipalities has stressed the importance of upgrading infrastructure.
Conversion to underground electric is important. Maybe a general obligation
bond is the way to finance these things. The projects will not get any cheaper
in the upcoming years. He would like Mr. Gordon Hargrove to investigate the
difference in cost between hiring our crews to do the work versus hiring an
outside contractor.
   Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller did not have any comments at this time.
Strategic Planning/Capital Improvements
   Gordon Hargrove went to the podium to begin his presentation about strategic
planning. He mentioned that we are all lucky to live in such a beautiful area
and showed pictures of scenery from the City. After several pleasant pictures,
he switched to pictures of cracked sewer pipes and worn-out components to the
sewer system. He said that things are not so beautiful if we look below the
surface. All of the horizontal assets are strained. Many of the underground
pipes are deteriorated and have weeds and roots growing through them. All of
the pictures he just showed the Board is from a 100-foot section of the pipe.
How does the City find a path forward? We want a plan that works for everyone.
A capital improvements plan usually spans 5-10 years. It is a living document.
The City received $7.95 million from the NC General Assembly. Our water and
sewer rates just increased, generating money for capital improvement projects,
too. Mr. Hargrove said that the City should not get used to receiving grants
and funding from the General Assembly because it doesn’t happen very often.
Portions of the City are eligible for American Rescue Plan funding, mainly
because we are considered a distressed utility. We will go after funding
aggressively.
We have also discussed other revenue-generating ideas, including the prepared
meals tax and the motor vehicle tax. Staff is also looking into a stormwater
tax based on residential, commercial, or industrial parcels. If property taxes
increased by 1%, revenue generated would be an additional $108,000 a year.
Several projects need to be funded. Public Works needs a backhoe, street
sweeper, stormwater mitigation, two dump trucks, and water/sewer upgrades. The
Police need a City-wide camera system. The Fire Department needs a new heavy
rescue truck, HVAC upgrades, and possibly a satellite office. The Tourism-
Communications department needs to upgrade its A/V and streaming capabilities.
Animal Protective Services would like to consolidate the dog/cat enclosure to
the City. Parks and Recreation needs a new rec center and a stage at Franklin
Square Park. Development Services needs more personnel and updated software.
And finally, the Finance Department will need software upgrades.
There was some discussion about all of the elected officials’ priorities:
water/sewer infrastructure, road repairs, stormwater mitigation, sidewalks and
crosswalks, historic preservation, preserving the yacht basin, dredging the
yacht basin, new rec center, and technology upgrades. Mr. Hargrove said that he
thinks, based on the Board comments, the “big five” would be: infrastructure,
roadway repair, shoreline stabilization, stormwater mitigation, and electrical
upgrades. The other projects would be the sidewalks/crosswalks on Howe Street,
the kayak launch, speed calming devices, yacht basin dredging, and other
sidewalk improvements concerning the pedestrian plan. The current year Capital
Improvement Plan funding includes shoreline stabilization, repaving Howe
Street, Taylor Field, and electrical underground. There is some money left over
from the previous Capital Project Ordinance. Mr. Hargrove reported that the
City pays $317,000 per year to treat wastewater because of I & I (inflow &
infiltration). It will not get any cheaper as we move forward.
Alderman Allen asked if once we get some of the infrastructure replaced and
repaired, there is a chance that water and sewer rates could be reduced. Mayor
Hatem said that he learned that it is never wise to decrease rates. We have
applied for the USDA loan and also some grants. There is some benefit to
accepting the loan and grant. We can use the grants in some areas and use the
loan for other areas. We are about to close the loan for the new sewer
treatment plant for the County. We have to use the first tranche of ARP funding
to keep the loan cost down. Mr. Hargrove recommended concentrating on the 3-
5 year time frame for planning. We will not be able to develop a strategic plan
in two hours. We will schedule another planning meeting, but it will soon be
budget season. City staff needs to shift focus onto preparing the budget
documents. A general obligation bond is the most secure form of borrowing
because if the City cannot pay the bond payments, the taxes are raised to
secure the loan payments. We have funding to upgrade (3) pump stations. We can
use $5 million to focus on shoreline stabilization. That leaves $1,059,772 from
the ARF tranche. Alderman Allen said it is hard to make decisions when the cost
is unknown of specific projects. Mayor Pro-tem said that we would likely need
an engineer to help design the kayak launch. Alderman Carroll stated that he
did not want to miss out on the funding that the Marina offered. There was a
discussion about the kayak launch, the expected building, and the timing.
Mr. Hargrove stated that it is the Board’s decision how to prioritize projects.
But it is easier to come up with $125,000 than $5 million. The focus of the
conversation shifted to wastewater pump stations. Public Services Director Tom
Stanley went to the podium to answer questions. Mr. Stanley said that BEMC
works closely with the Electrical Superintendent and provides engineering
services. He said that he doesn’t understand why there is no engineer for water
and sewer. Alderman Alt asked if the project needed to go to an engineer first?
Gordon Hargrove stated that the City has already begun the RFQ process for the
wastewater pump stations. The project has to be designed by an engineer. There
were questions about when the utility merger feasibility study would be done.
Mr. Hargrove said there was no guaranteed time, but he has seen it take a
couple of years. There is a chance that the County would accept the debt
service payment for improvements when they take over the utilities. Mr.
Hargrove recommends improving (5) stations and building the sidewalk down Howe
Street that was put off last year. Alderman Allen said that we could focus on
the water and sewer infrastructure, but not to the exclusion of everything
else. He suggested wrapping the meeting up for today. Mr. Hargrove said that he
needed to make a few more comments. The funding provided by the General
Assembly and the ARF does not happen often. We need to use the money for the
greatest good, the biggest impact. All experts, like the School of Government
and the NC League of Municipalities, suggest using the money for
infrastructure. The Board decides on policies and directives, and Gordon is the
conduit for staff to get projects done. Mr. Hargrove asked all staff to enter
the room and stand.
We all have a duty to protect Southport. In the 21 months he has been in
Southport, he has learned that staff is all very good at what they do. This is
the team that will be leading Southport in turning the curve. He added that he
is blown away by the staff’s professionalism every day. Alderman Allen made a
motion to authorize the City Manager to begin the process of rehabbing the (2)
additional pump stations and the sidewalk on Howe Street. Instead of making the
motion and voting today, Alderman Allen and Mayor Hatem suggested moving it to
the agenda at the regular March meeting. Mr. Hargrove reiterated that it takes
a while to develop a strategic plan, and it will take months to pull the
engineer’s reports together.      
J.)   ADJOURN
Mayor Hatem said that today was a remarkable day. There were a lot of projects,
goals, and priorities discussed. He applauds City staff for the work that is
done every day. He is honored to have joined the team. Gordon Hargrove did a
great job. We don’t have to decide everything in one day or one meeting.
A motion was made by Alderman Lombardi and seconded by Alderman Davis to
adjourn the meeting. All ayes. Motion carried. Mayor Hatem adjourned the
meeting at 3:02 p.m.
                     _____________________________________
                     Joseph P. Hatem, M.D., M.P.H.
                     Mayor, City of Southport
 
__________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
MARCH 10, 2022
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING March 10, 2022
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
6:00 p.m.
Present:    Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor Pro Tem Karen Mosteller, Aldermen
Thomas Lombardi, Rich Alt, Lowe Davis, Robert Carroll, and John Allen.
Staff Present:   Gordon Hargrove, City Manager
   Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
   Thomas Lloyd, Developmental Services Director
   Randy Jones, Communications/Tourism Director
   Lisa Anderson, Asst. Communications Director
   Allayna Dail, Tourism and Communications Administrator
   Heather Hemphill, Parks and Recreation Director
   Kate Marshall, Animal Control
   Todd Coring, Police Chief
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   Ralph Treadway, EMS Battalion Chief
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
 
Others Present: Tish Hatem, Will Hewitt, Jason Robbins, Kate Singley and
husband, Lora Sharkey, Whit Beebe, Eliot Duke with the State Port Pilot, and
many other interested citizens attended.
Meetings are now open to the public. Complete audio/video is available on the
City's website
or can be requested from the City Clerk's office.
A.)
Mayor Joseph P. Hatem called the meeting to order at 6:05 p.m. and welcomed
everyone to the meeting. He thanked everyone for attending the meeting.
B.)
Mayor Hatem announced that Reverend Sally Learner with the Southport Oak Island
Interchurch Fellowship would be providing the invocation.
C.)
Mayor Hatem led the pledge of allegiance.
D.)   Public Comment:
Mayor asked the City Clerk to state the names of those who had signed in for
public comment.
Ms. Dutton called Donna Fullwood to the podium. She stated her name and
address, 807 Cape Harbor Drive. Ms. Fullwood stated that she is opposed to the
annexation request. She said it doesn’t make sense to connect to public
utilities when our system is not functioning at 100%. At the workshop in
February, it was noted that the 9th Street Pump Station is not functioning
correctly. She assumes the area to be annexed would connect to that pump
station, too. The E.coli levels are already above where they should be. She
asked the Board to consider denying the annexation.
Ms. Dutton asked Mr. Brian Stevens to approach the podium for public comment.
He stated his name and said he resides at 503 Cades Trail. He is an avid
kayaker and paddleboarder. In the State Port Pilot, he read that the Board was
discussing the kayak launch. He said that the area is full of people who would
use the kayak launch, and it doesn’t have to be anything fancy. They just need
a dirt ramp; the sooner, the better.
Vicki Morrison addressed the Board next. She said that she also resides in
Cades Cove. Ms. Morrison spoke to the Board about infrastructure. She works as
a volunteer with Cape Fear River Watch. They have been testing the creeks
randomly for contaminants. E.coli levels have been very high lately. Last week,
they found a dead beaver floating in a culvert. The City Manager and Alderman
Lombardi area are pushing for rehab on the pump stations, but she urges the
Board to focus on the wastewater system. As more developers come into
Southport, she suggests charging them additional fees to help the City pay for
some of these projects. Mayor Hatem stated there had been an extensive study of
the City’s sewer system recently. He reiterated that projects take time to
complete, but it is a budgetary priority.
Judge Bill Fairley approached the podium next to speak about subdivisions and
rezonings. He said that he has observed over the last decade as subdivisions
have come to town. He said that the developers buy up a bunch of property,
clear-cut it, and try to rezone it. The developers said they want to preserve
the land and are environmentally conscious. When they achieve the rezoning,
they forget about their pledge to protect the land. Mass production homes and
dense developments that clear-cut the land make Southport look like every other
town. He hopes that the current Board will have more skepticism as developers
come to town. He asked the Board to keep in mind that developers know exactly
how the land was zoned before they bought it, and it only becomes more valuable
after a rezoning.
Donnie Joyner offered his thanks to the City and especially the Tourism
department. This was the second year hosting the Black History Symposium. The
City stands shoulder to shoulder with them in support. It takes effort from
everyone to get a program started.
Lora Sharkey, former Board member and resident at 432 Cades Cove, had signed up
next for public comment. She wanted to speak about strategic planning and
infrastructure. She mentioned that Lisa Anderson had recently discussed
communication with the Board, but the Board is having a hard time communicating
their priorities. She said that the County does not need our existing system,
and she doubts whether the County really has any interest in taking it over.
She added that if the prime objective of the Board members is to be popular in
social settings, they should prioritize dredging the yacht basin or the kayak
launch. The City has at least (5) pump stations that need repairs. A
significant amount of rain could cause catastrophic damage to an already-
struggling wastewater pump. The Board should set a date for a strategic plan
workshop and really commit to the process. She stated that this problem is a
cumulative effect from the last many years. Mayor Hatem addressed the concerns
and mentioned the Board’s plans in his last briefing. Things don’t just happen
overnight.
Next to speak was Pastor Toblen, a resident at 215 W. 11th Street. She is
unhappy that most of the new homes being built are so close together that you
can reach out and touch the neighbor. When she built her home, the neighborhood
wasn’t too crowded, but she knows that her neighborhood would be the same way.
The houses are so close to each other that they will likely all go up in flames
if one catches on fire. Four weeks after some work was done near her home, her
roof caved in. When she contacted the City Manager to look at it, she was told
that he couldn’t spend the City’s tax dollars to fix something that she
should’ve maintained. Developers will say whatever they need to say, to have
their way.
City Clerk Dorothy Dutton read the last comment from Ms. Kathy Cabral emailed
to her. Ms. Cabral expressed her disapproval of the proposed plan for Indigo
Phase 2, and she suggested that the public should have access to all of the
reports and proposals that have been submitted.
E.)   Approval of Agenda
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller made a motion to approve the agenda, as presented.
Alderman Carroll said he wanted to make a motion to remove Item #11 (Street
Sweeper) from the consent agenda and placed it on the agenda as a regular item
next month. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller withdrew her initial motion and motioned to
approve the agenda as amended, with Consent Item #11 held until the April
meeting. Alderman Lombardi seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.
F.)   Approval of Consent Agenda
   1.   Minutes of Regular Board of Aldermen Meeting February 10, 2022
   2.   Minutes Special Board Workshop February 17th, 2022
   3.   Resolution Assigning Authority to Surplus
   4.   Resolution Declaring Goods as Surplus for Disposal
   5.   Resolution Declaring Surplus for Sale
   6.   Resolution Declaring Police Vehicle Surplus
   7.   Resolution Declaring Fire Equipment Surplus
   8.   Resolution of Intent to Donate Fire Truck
   9.   Donation of Water Rescue Equipment to the Southport Fire /Rescue
   10.   Donation of Lifesaving Equipment to the City
   11.   Authorization to Purchase Street Sweeper
Mayor Hatem gave a summary of the Consent Agenda items. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller
made a motion to approve the consent agenda, items 1-10, as presented. Alderman
Lombardi seconded. All ayes. Motion carried. Mayor Hatem called upon Jackson
Ennis to come forward. Jackson Ennis is working towards his Eagle Scout
designation through the Boy Scouts of America. Mayor Hatem shook his hand, and
pictures were taken.
G.)   Special Recognition-
Mayor Hatem stated that he was changing the order so that the women could be
recognized first.
   1.   Mayor Hatem read the Proclamation for Women’s History Month. He also
recognized Cadet Major Emma Snap, who was selected as the NC State American
Legal JROTC Candidate of the Year.
   2.   Mayor Hatem recited the Commemoration of the Sinking of the John D.
Gill on March 12, 1942. He invited everyone to join the Historical Society at
the Community Building on April 12th for their commemoration of the 80th
anniversary of the sinking. Ms. Tish Hatem was the guest speaker.
   3.   Police Chief Todd Coring approached the podium and introduced Officer
Jarrod Jeffrey, who was recently recognized as the Rotary Club’s Officer of the
Year award.
   4.   Mayor Hatem asked Ms. Tish Hatem to come forward. He made a few
comments about her service on the Planning Board and presented her with a
plague.
   5.   Next, Mayor Hatem asked Attorney Mike Isenberg to come forward. He read
a proclamation thanking him for his commitment to the City and wishing him well
on his retirement. He said that Mr. Isenberg’s wealth of knowledge, patience,
and kindness would not soon be forgotten. Mike Isenberg spoke about how he
first began with the City.
H.)   Agenda
   1.   Thomas Lloyd, Development Services Director, introduced Mr. Patrick
Flanagan, a regional planner with the Café Fear Council of Governments. He is
here to review the plans for the East Coast Greenway Study. Mr. Flanagan
thanked the Board for having him. The East Coast Greenway Trail is a 3000-mile
multi-use trail from Maine to Florida. So far, 1000-miles have been
constructed. The trail enters near the ferry and runs to US 17 Hwy. A
feasibility study is needed to identify the best path in Brunswick County. The
Rural Planning Organization and the Council of Governments are sponsoring the
study. They want to make sure what they build here serves the people who live
here and other people who want to use the routes. They also wanted to make sure
that there are loops and features that local residents can use for travel and
enjoyment. Aldermen Allen asked who was paying for the plan and the
infrastructure. Mr. Flanagan explained that this is a planning document. Once
the plan is adopted, organizations can apply for funding through NCDOT or other
agencies. The City does not have to pay for anything in particular, but it
helps the City comply with the Complete Streets Policies. The Greenway goes
through both central NC and the coast of NC. A resident asked if the plan
provides access to natural areas. Mr. Flanagan said that the plans do not
specifically go to certain areas, but they tried to incorporate natural beauty.
He explained that he and the other planners decided to use NC 211 to allow as
many people to use the trail as possible. A motion to approve the plan was made
by Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller and seconded by Alderman Lombardi. All ayes, Motion
carried. 
   2.   Alderman Lombardi explained that the Board of Adjustment interview
committee conducted six interviews for the vacant positions in the Board of
Adjustment. All of the candidates were very qualified, and they enjoyed meeting
the applicants. The interview committee recommended moving Jason Robbins from
the City-alternate position to a full City member. They recommend appointing
Loten Masker as the City- alternate and Amy Aycock as the full ETJ member.
Alderman Lombardi expressed a special thanks to Jennifer Fontaine for over ten
years of service on the Board of Adjustment. Alderman Lombardi made a motion to
appoint Jason Robbins to a full City member position, Loten Masker as the City-
alternate, and Amy Aycock as a full ETJ member. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller
seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.
   3.   Mayor Hatem asked City Clerk Dorothy Dutton to review the Bee City USA
program. She stated that the program was discussed during the Board workshop
earlier in the month. The program consists of public education, signage, and
avoiding pesticides at pollinator gardens. The Beautification Committee will be
responsible for maintaining the program, and City staff is currently working on
an integrated pest management plan. A motion was made by Alderman Lombardi and
seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller to approve the Resolution in Support of
Participating in Bee City, USA. All ayes. Motion carried. 
   4.   Thomas Lloyd summarized the contiguous annexation request submitted for
(5) l0.14-acre lots totaling 0.70 acres located on N. Caswell Avenue. The
parcels are owned by the Heirs of James M. Harper III, but they have given
authorization for William Beebe to petition for annexation. The surrounding
parcels are within the City limits, and utilities are available to the lots.
The City Clerk has determined that the request is sufficient, and the Board has
accepted her certificate of sufficiency. Mayor Hatem opened the public hearing
at 7:54 p.m. An audience member asked about the zoning designation as multi-
family. Mr. Lloyd stated that the developer would still have to meet the design
standards if they were to build multi-family units. Alderman Davis asked how
long the parcels had been that size and zoned as multi-family. Mr. Lloyd stated
that the parcels had been that size since they were initially platted, probably
since 1915. He was unsure of how long they had been zoned as multi-family. The
public hearing was closed at 7:57 p.m. Alderman Davis asked more questions
about the benefits of annexing the property and whether the City could
potentially accept up to (11) more units on our utility system. The developer
will have to install a grinder pump to help send the wastewater to our force
main. William Beebe, the developer, and petitioner, was in the audience and
stated that he intends to build single-family dwellings. Attorney Isenberg said
that the Board could not prevent the owners/developer from the permitted uses
that they are allowed in the UDO. Alderman Carroll made a motion to approve the
annexation of the (5) lots on Caswell Avenue and the Annexation Ordinance, as
presented. Alderman Allen seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.
   5.   Mayor Hatem asked the City Clerk to review the process of establishing
an Issuer Credit Rating. Ms. Dutton had spoken to a representative from Moody’s
about the process and benefits. Mr. Paul Spadaccini, from Moody’s, advised that
the City should wait until we apply for general obligation bonds to assign us a
credit rating. The Issuer Credit Rating costs $6,000 a year to maintain, but
any credit inquiry would show up in our credit history. The Board had questions
about how long the process takes and how long the credit rating is valid.
Alderman Davis made a motion to table the issue until more information could be
provided. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   6.   City Manager Gordon Hargrove stated that the Board had all had the
opportunity to meet Attorney Norwood Blanchard. He comes highly recommended,
and he suggested the Board make a motion to appoint Mr. Blanchard as the City
Attorney. After a motion by Alderman Carroll to appoint Norwood Blanchard as
the City Attorney effective April 1, 2022, at a rate of $195 an hour. Alderman
Allen seconded. All ayes. Motion carried. Alderman Davis added that her only
hesitation is because we don’t want Mike Isenberg to go.
Committee Reports
Alderman Allen, Alderman Carroll, and Alderman Alt had no committee reports.
Alderman Davis mentioned that the Forestry Committee is having an in-person
Arbor Day event, and it will be very special. There will be a tour of some of
Southport's most notable and old trees. She said she was glad to use the
tablets now for the Board meetings because it saves some trees.
Alderman Lombardi reported that there were (19) volunteers at the
Beautification meeting. They plan to remove all the random plants growing up
around the boat. They sanded and repainted the buoy post across from the boat
and even used the weed eater at the cemetery.
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller reported that the Parks and Recreation Committee met
with Dr. Herstine to begin the Parks and Recreation and Open Space Master Plan
updates. The advisory board has begun finalizing the community survey. She
expressed the importance of completing the surveys and said that workshops
would be scheduled in May and June this year for community participation. The
streetlight committee has scheduled a community workshop meeting for April 6th
at 6:00 p.m. at the Community Building. She invites the public to attend the
meeting to discuss the draft policy and view the streetlight test lights before
the meeting. If anyone has questions regarding the streetlight policy or
samples, please contact her, Aldermen Davis, or Carroll.
Manager's Report
City Manager Gordon Hargrove thanked City Clerk Dorothy Dutton and IT
Consultant Eileen Hennessey for their hard work in getting the Microsoft
Surface Pros that the Board will be using moving forward.
Mayor's Report
Mayor Hatem thanked City Staff and thanked the Communications Department for
the communications and IT workshop. Congratulations to Officer Jarrod Jeffrey.
April 2nd is the car show at the waterfront. March 12th is the commemoration of
the 80th anniversary of the tanker bombing that occurred off the coast during
WWII. He also thanked Mike Isenberg and Tish Hatem for their service. He said
that the ACC tournament starts at 9:30 p.m. He wished everyone a blessed St.
Patrick’s Day.
Board Comments
Alderman Allen said that he wanted to address sewer infrastructure. This Board
has taken a more proactive stance on sewer repairs, approved RFQ postings, and
asked for comprehensive studies to help identify more significant issues. This
Board is committed to addressing those concerns.
Alderman Carroll reiterated that infrastructure is a priority of this Board.
And with regards to the annexation request from this evening, he said that they
could allow it to stay outside of the City limits, or they can accept it and
get some of the benefits. Those lots will still use our roads, so at least we
are getting the tax revenue to help fund the repairs and other work.
Alderman Alt stated that there are some “feel good” projects that help the
livability of the City. The City did not get into these problems overnight, and
we won’t be able to fix them overnight. There are other projects that we will
have to make happen. Things were not handled well in the past. He added about
the annexation that the Board could not change the zoning of those lots
arbitrarily unless the owner asks for it. But the developer addressed the
concerns already.
Alderman Davis reported that the women’s club would be sponsoring a student art
festival. On Saturday, April 23, 2022, the plaque at John Smith Cemetery will
be installed, recognizing it on the National Register of Historic Places. The
John Smith Cemetery is only the second black cemetery in the nation on the
registry. The Forestry Committee tree plantings are scheduled for the following
week.
Alderman Lombardi thanked Kate Singley for her work on the pollinator garden.
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller reminded the public of the June 1st deadline to apply
for the homestead tax credit program with the County. If you are a homeowner,
the home is your full-time residence, you are sixty-five or older, and your
2021 household income was less than $31,900, you may qualify to reduce your
taxes by 50%. There is also a disabled veteran and tax deferment program.
Please call Deputy Clerk Tanya Shannon if you have questions. She added the
following comments: “We do not have to look very far to know that volunteerism
is alive and well in Southport. I am humbled by the commitment to our community
Tish Hatem demonstrated while serving on the Planning Board for 15 years.
Humbled, knowing this was just one of the many volunteer hats she continues to
wear. Tish Hatem, thank you for your service.
Finally, Mike Isenberg, you are a rock, a rock that has helped to provide the
foundation for many of the decisions that are guiding the future of our City.
I am so very grateful for your years of commitment and service as our City
Attorney. I am so very grateful for your kindness and your patience and for
always returning my calls. Thank you for all your help.
This is a bittersweet page to turn. On a personal level, Mike, I know you have
given a lot, and I am happy you are taking some time for yourself.
And while I understand you will no longer be retained by the city, I feel
fortunate because I have your cell number. Mike Isenberg, a trusted advisor,
and a valued friend. Thank you.
You are the best!”
Adjourn
Mayor Hatem stated that it had been a fantastic meeting; he has enjoyed it. He
suggested that the public should review the website and his video updates. The
Board is talking about infrastructure. We are moving forward and are very proud
of the citizens who are involved. We have a beautiful City and are so fortunate
to live here.
Alderman Allen wanted to express his thanks for the generous donations of water
rescue equipment.
Mayor Hatem thanked the Board, City Manager, and Attorney Mike Isenberg. Mayor
Pro-tem Mosteller made a motion to adjourn the meeting, which Alderman Lombardi
seconded. All ayes. Motion carried. Mayor Hatem adjourned the meeting at 8:39
p.m.
      
                     _______________________________________
                     Joseph P. Hatem, M.D., M.P.H.
                     Mayor, City of Southport
 
______________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
MARCH 24, 2022
SPECIAL JOINT MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN PLANNING BOARD SPECIAL JOINT MEETING MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING               MARCH 24, 2022
223 E. BAY STREET                SOUTHPORT, NC
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN PRESENT: Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor Pro-tem Karen
Mosteller; Aldermen Lowe Davis, John Allen, Tom Lombardi, Robert Carroll, and
Rich Alt
PLANNING BOARD PRESENT: Chair Sue Hodgin, Will Hewitt, Gustavo Mibelli, Scott
Jones, Christopher Jones, Fred Fiss, Dick Sloan
REMOTE PARTICIPANTS: Planning Board Members Maureen Meehan and Donnie Joyner
STAFF PRESENT:
Gordon Hargrove, City Manager                  Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
Tanya Shannon, Deputy City Clerk               Randy Jones, Tourism & Comm.    
Lisa Anderson, Assistant Comm. Director            Thomas Lloyd, Development
Serv. Director
Allayna Dail, Tourism & Comm Administrator            Todd Coring, Chief of
Police
Kate Marshall, Animal Protective Services
PRESENTERS:
Chad Paul, CEO Bald Head Island Ltd.               Roger Perry, President, East
West Partners
McKay Siegel, Partner, East West Partners
A)   Call to Order
   Mayor Hatem called the special joint meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B)   Invocation
   Alderman Lowe Davis gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
   Mayor Hatem led everyone in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Approval of Agenda
   After a motion was made by Alderman Allen and seconded by Alderman Lombardi,
the Board of Alderman approved the joint meeting agenda as presented. All ayes.
Motion carried.
   After a motion made by Will Hewitt and seconded by Gustavo Mibelli, the
Planning Board approved the joint meeting agenda as presented. All ayes. Motion
carried.
E)   Mayor's Opening Comments and Agenda
   Mayor Hatem welcomed the Aldermen, Planning Board members, the developers,
and the public to the meeting. He thanked the City Manager Gordon Hargrove,
Thomas Lloyd, the City Clerks, Communications staff, and Eileen Hennessy. He
explained that if approved and built out, the Indigo Plantation Phase 2 project
will be the most significant planned development since Southport was first
developed. Mayor Hatem said that many studies are being conducted to consider
the impacts of the development, including infrastructure, traffic, personnel,
and finances. He said that part of his responsibility is to ensure that the
Boards and the public have enough information to make a good decision. He also
reminded the public that there is a Town Hall meeting scheduled for April 4,
2022, at 6:00 p.m., which is the best opportunity for the public to ask
questions. Mayor Hatem asked Thomas Lloyd, Development Services Director, to
introduce the project.
   Mr. Lloyd explained that the developers have submitted an application for a
PUD Master plan rezoning. The property is adjacent to Smithville Woods, Cades
Cove, and the existing Indigo Plantation. The property is already in the City’s
extraterritorial jurisdiction. The Planning Board has (90) days to review the
proposed PUD, and then they must make a recommendation to the Board of
Aldermen. The Master development bubble diagram identifies different densities
and what uses are allowed in those areas. The maximum number of units is
included in the master plan approval. This property is 346.7 acres with 1500
residential units and some commercial areas reserved. City staff is currently
working with two consulting groups to complete an infrastructure and fiscal
analysis. Mr. Lloyd announced Chad Paul, the CEO of Bald Head Island Limited,
and Roger Perry and McKay Siegel from East West Partners. Mr. Chad Paul said
that he was involved with the original Indigo Plantation project; he dug the
footers for the original fence. After so much time has passed, now is the right
time to focus on phase 2. The property owner, Mr. Mitchell, passed away seven
years ago, but the estate is still being settled. The Mitchell family wants to
do a great job because they want to leave a good legacy. Mr. Paul said that
they wanted to work with East West Partners because they have an excellent
record of stewardship. The inspiration for the homes is the historical homes
along Bay and Lord Streets. The County will provide water and sewer utilities.
   Mr. Roger Perry, the President of East West Partners, thanked both Boards
and said they are here to try to come together with the public to figure out
the best possible use of the property. They want to help the social wealth and
health of the communities. All of the existing communities that East West
Partners developed have a high level of satisfaction. The best example is
Meadowmont in Chapel Hill. They worked very well with Chapel Hill, and now it
is one of the most imminent developments. The development added $1 billion to
tax value and includes single-family detached, condos, townhomes, apartments,
and retail/office space.
   McKay Siegel introduced the project from a holistic approach. He said that
there is a beautiful marina, open space, and the unique character of Southport.
The bubble diagram is color-coded based on density. The purple and red areas
are the densest with apartments or townhomes. The number proposed is their best
guess right now, but it will likely change. There are many areas identified for
open space. The planned open space areas, trails, and parks will be open to the
whole City of Southport. Mr. Siegel and another representative walked through
Southport and compared housing styles, prices, and sidewalks. They want to use
styles and materials similar to what is already used in Southport. The
developers will install the water and sewer infrastructure and give it to the
County. The City will provide electrical service and stormwater management.
There will be sidewalks on both sides of the roads, and they will use good
caliber, native street trees. The traffic engineer was unavailable to attend
this meeting, but he will be attending the April 4 th meeting.
   The project's residential portion should add a value of approximately $750
million to our tax base, and the commercial portion should add $26 million.
   Mr. Chad Paul said that some developments outside the City limits still use
City resources. By annexing into the City, they will at least provide ad
valorem taxes to help pay for infrastructure upgrades. There is a dirt road
from 11th Street to the hydrant beside the VFW on 9th Street. The City owns a
piece of property at the end of 11th Street and where the pump station is
located. Mr. Roger Perry explained that the traffic projections were made
through 2040. The recommended improvements were derived from the traffic impact
analysis. Signalization and additional exits will be added. All of the roads
will be built to NCDOT standards. The intersection of Robert Ruark and NC211
(Howe St) is a unique opportunity because it serves as the front door to the
City.
   Alderman Lombardi thanked the developers for the presentation. He asked for
more information about the types of retail that would be included. Mr. Paul
said that it depends on how much traffic we want on the streets. There would
probably not be anything like a full grocery store, but they want to consider
the hospital's needs. They have also considered an assisted living facility.
   Alderman Alt stated that he is concerned about the impact on school traffic
and asked if the traffic impact analysis considered that. Mr. Perry said that
the TIA did take that into account because it looked at the trip generation
during peak rush hour. Mr. Perry also added that there would be deed
restrictions against short-term rentals. He noted that they waited until the
new Unified Development Ordinance was adopted so that they would fall under the
new standards. He said they do not want to be a closed community; they want to
encourage non-vehicular traffic and the public to use the amenities.
   Planning Board member Christopher Jones expressed concern that they did not
have the entire TIA, so Mr. Lloyd emailed it to everyone. Mr. Jones also asked
how adjacent neighborhoods affected the necessary resources for their other
developments, such as medical care and restaurants. Chad Paul stated that the
planned commercial space would include some of the resources that the residents
would need. He also agreed that demographics are changing, and some younger
folks are moving in. They have to be accommodating to all people. Mr. Perry
added that the build-out time is likely ten years, and they will have to be
flexible to allow for market changes. Planning Board member Scott Jones asked
if they were open to reducing the density at all or would they walk away from
the entire project. Mr. Perry and Mr. Paul agreed that it is not all or
nothing. They are open to discussion, but historically speaking, this type of
development is successful.
   Mr. Will Hewitt asked if the traffic engineer would be available at the
April 4th meeting, and Mr. Perry assured him that he would be present. Mr.
Gustavo Mibelli asked for more information about the proposed density compared
to the existing density. They discussed creating a map/picture that would
overlay the proposed sketch drawing on top of the aerial picture. That would
better show connectivity. Also, it would be helpful to see comparisons of
different streetscapes; with the number of houses on existing streets versus
what is proposed. Planning Board Chair Sue Hodgin asked if they planned to
build in phases and, if so, what are the phases? Mr. Perry replied that the
soonest the first house would likely not be ready to move in for 2.5 years. He
also stated that they intend to pay for all offsite utility connections and
traffic mitigations. Sue Hodgin stated that she hopes that younger folks, Bald
Head Island employees and service workers will also be able to live there. Chad
Paul said they don’t know precisely what the demographics will be, which is one
benefit of having a PUD. It allows for some changes in housing types, as
needed.
   Planning Board member Fred Fiss was concerned about construction traffic
having a major impact. Chad Paul said construction traffic would be mitigated
by using a central laydown yard and coordinating with law enforcement for the
concrete trucks. Alderman Carroll is concerned that a second commercial core
would be created. Mr. Perry said there might be a restaurant and a store, but
he believes that the project will encourage more development on the edge of the
City limits.
F)   Public Comment
   Mayor Hatem said that it was an excellent presentation and discussion. He
announced that it was time for public comment and asked the City Clerk to begin
calling people to speak. Dorothy Dutton called Ginny Prunty to speak. Ms.
Prunty stated her name and her address as 5906 Dutchman Creek Road. She asked
the Board if they had really considered the additional 188 units at the marina.
The traffic study only measured the traffic at the intersections. She asked the
developers if they had considered the increased traffic on Indigo Plantation
Road? McKay Siegel said that as he understood it, only the NCDOT roads were
studied. Sidewalks were going to be built on both sides of the street in Phase
2, increasing walkability.
   Kathy Cabral, a resident at 308 W. West Street, spoke next. She said that it
is important to consider the impact of 1500 more homes while the existing
infrastructure is failing. She said that the developers were aware that the
property was zoned R-20 when they purchased it, but now they want to rezone it.
   Matthew Lawrence, resident at 1003 Bussell’s Turn, said that the TIA is
dense and unmanageable. He appreciates that the developers want to preserve the
trees. This development might be our best bet. He urged the public to schedule
a meeting with Thomas Lloyd to review the plan. He expressed concern that there
are only two ways in and out of the City, especially if there is an emergency.
   Brian Stevens, residing at 503 Cades Cove, expressed concern that too much
was being made out of Southport. The proposed development will take the peace
and quiet out of the area. He paid $3820 in taxes last year and said that is
enough to allow him some peace and dignity at his home. He asked the developers
to consider building a kayak launch into the Indigo project. Mr. Paul said they
are considering it, but they would have to sort out bathrooms and parking. He
added that R-20 zoning encourages clear-cutting, but they want to work with us
to find the right balance.
   Terry Pierce thanked the Board and the developers for the opportunity to ask
questions. Mr. Pierce is a bicycle advocate and was pleased to hear about the
planned shared-use paths. But he believes a fundamental issue is being
overlooked. Mr. Pierce said that the City is a peninsula, and there are only
two ways to get in or out. He suggested that crossing the creek or canal to
Long Beach Road should be considered. And he asked the Board and developers to
rethink the proposed density.
   Mayor Hatem stated that the City is working on the kayak launch. An ad hoc
committee will be appointed to study the project. The proposed area is unsafe
because the marina is working on its building for the time being.
   Ms. Dutton called Rebecca Kelley to the podium for her comments. She thanked
everyone for the opportunity to speak. She said that the kayak launch is a
great project, but considering sewer spills into the creek, the City might want
to focus on the wastewater issues first. Ms. Kelley resides at 5971 Dutchman
Creek Road and grew up in Indigo Plantation. She loves the quiet aesthetic of
what it is now. She implores the Planning Board to consider not rezoning the
property. The developers knew what the zoning was when they attained the
property. She mentioned the traffic around the school and mentioned that more
families with children are moving into the area. She also encouraged the Board
to ensure that no short-term rentals are allowed.
   Chad Paul stated that Mr. Perry didn’t buy the property and then tried to
rezone it. They will develop it based on whatever they work out with the City.
He also said they are purposely rerouting their utilities away from the 9th
Street pump station. Alderman Carroll asked if there was a backup plan if the
Board did not approve the proposed project. Mr. Paul said it seemed the
Mitchells would put the property on the market and sell it.
   Kathy Cabral asked if she could return to the podium for another comment.
She said that her earlier point might have been misunderstood. She meant that
most of the Board probably wouldn’t be serving anymore in ten years. Their
legacy would be the 1500 home subdivision.
G)   Planning Board Review Committee Selection
   Mayor Hatem asked Planning Board Chair Sue Hodgin to speak about the review
committee. Ms. Hodgin said that Ms. Meehan and Mr. Joyner were physically
absent but were watching the meeting from home. Now that the Planning Board has
been informed about the proposed Indigo Phase 2 project, a review committee
would be formed to take a closer look at the project and then report back to
the Planning Board so that they may make a recommendation. Ms. Hodgin announced
that Ms. Meehan, Mr. Chris Jones, and herself would serve on the review
committee.
H)   Board Comments
   Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller said that the residents are passionate about
Southport. A development company should understand what matters. The Board must
use humility and understand their responsibility. Please help them find ways to
mitigate the development outside of the City. Please help them find ways to be
inclusive because diversity is important. She thanked everyone for
contributing. Mr. Perry said that her comments were wonderfully said. The
developers are working with the City to find a solution that works for both the
developers and the City.
   Alderman Davis commented that it is important to identify what happened that
evening. Everyone heard a very sophisticated sales pitch. No one was entirely
in support of the development. She expressed thanks to the Planning Board for
what will be (3) months of hard deliberation.
   Alderman Alt said that he echoes Alderman Davis’s comments. He wants to
encourage the public to attend the meetings and speak. He also agreed with Mr.
Mibelli’s comments about needing a different sketch. Adding that visuals help
make a decision.
   Mayor Hatem thanked the City Manager and staff, East West Partners, and Bald
Head Island Limited. He also thanked the Planning Board and the citizens. He
reminded the public that there are six or seven more opportunities for public
comments before the Board considers voting on the project.
I)   Adjourn
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller and Alderman Lombardi made a motion to adjourn.
Alderman Allen seconded the motion. Mayor Hatem adjourned the meeting at 9:18
p.m. All ayes. Motion carried.
 
                     _____________________________________
                     Joseph P. Hatem, M.D., M.P.H.
                     Mayor, City of Southport
__________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
APRIL 4, 2022
SPECIAL MAYOR'S MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  SPECIAL MAYOR’S TOWN HALL MEETING
COMMUNITY BUILDING APRIL 4, 2022
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, NC
 
6:00 p.m.
PRESENT: Mayor Joseph P. Hatem
BOARD MEMBERS IN ATTENDANCE: Mayor Pro-tem Karen Mosteller; Alderman John
Allen, Alderman Robert Carroll, Alderman Rich Alt, and Alderman Tom Lombardi
STAFF PRESENT:
Gordon Hargrove, City Manager   Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
Randy Jones, Tourism & Comm.    Lisa Anderson, Assistant Comm. Director
Allayna Dail, Tourism & Comm Administrator   Thomas Lloyd, Dvlpmnt Services
Director
Todd Coring, Police Chief   Ralph Treadway, EMS Battalion Chief
A)   Open Forum
Attendees were given the opportunity to walk through the lobby, ask the
developers questions, and review the plans. There were so many people in
attendance that most everyone took a seat to reserve it for the meeting instead
of walking through.
B)   Call to Order
Mayor Hatem called the meeting to order and welcomed everyone in attendance and
watching from home. He said that he was proud to provide a public forum where
the public could come and ask questions and review the proposed Indigo
Plantation Phase 2 project.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
Mayor Hatem led everyone in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)    Invocation
Mayor Hatem read a prayer.
E)   Presentation
Mayor Hatem introduced the most involved individuals with the project. Chad
Paul is the CEO of Bald Head Island Limited; he thanked everyone for attending.
He stated that he became CEO of Bald Head Island Limited in 2010. He explained
that there are 386 acres involved in the proposed project. Thirty-seven of
those acres are already within the City limits, and 358 acres are in the ETJ of
the City. Mr. Paul stated that they are aware that the City will decide how the
358 acres are zoned. He added that he realizes that most of the development
occurring in Brunswick County will still affect the City of Southport. Those
people will still come to Southport to use the waterfront and drive on our
roads. He hates the idea that Southport wouldn’t be able to receive any of the
additional tax revenue for the proposed developments. He also added that Bald
Head Island was developed with the fewest environmental impacts possible. There
was no clear-cutting or mass grading.
Roger Perry is the Founder and President of East-West Partners. He said that
they are sincerely appreciative to be there tonight. They are asking for 1500
dwelling units, but they are “allowed” to build approximately 900 based on the
current zoning of R-20. He said that building relationships is more important
than making money at his age. He invited the public to drive out to Chapel Hill
and visit the Meadowmont Community. That is a project developed by East West
Partners and is similar to what they hope to do here in Southport.
Eric Pohlman is a Principal with Land Design who focuses on site plans and
programming. He said this property is really special, and they want to design
an intentional plan. He considers facets like open space and wellness. He asks
what will attract people here. They have included a central park area in their
design. It is planned for front and center and will be the heart of the
community. The linear greens go through the neighborhoods and lots. They would
like every home to be within two blocks of a trailhead or park. The proposed
plan also focuses on tree preservation and the diversity of open space. There
will be active recreation, waterfront- marina redevelopment, nature trails, and
greenways. Great streets breed great communities. Sidewalks and walkability
build communities. Not everything is front-loaded or alley-loaded. Mr. Pohlman
explained the bubble diagram that was available for the proposed development.
He suggested that the public think of it as a heat map. The closer to the
marina you get, the more density. Historic districts typically use multiple lot
widths. Narrower lots have small cottages or taller homes. Wider lots have
larger one-story homes. They hope to create a grid network that connects to the
existing City.
Jonathan Guy, a transportation engineer with Kimley-Horne and Associates,
explained his role in the project. He was hired to complete the traffic impact
analysis. He said that NCDOT manages and sets guidelines for how the study
should be completed. All of the growth for the widening of NC211 was taken into
account. SYNCRO software is used to enter all the data, and the model has to be
approved by NCDOT before the analysis can be done. It takes between 2-3 months
to prepare the analysis because there are so many active studies in Brunswick
County. Once the analysis is ready, they send it to NCDOT for the preliminary
review. It is either accepted for a complete review, or they ask for revisions.
It can take up to four months to get NCDOT approval. The engineers look at the
number of homes and use the number to determine how many trips would be
generated. They also consider trip distribution, the development volume,
operational analysis, land uses, phasing of development, and the year at total
build-out. The NCDOT and the City of Southport determine when a Traffic Impact
Analysis is required. They consider various traffic scenarios, different times
of day for traffic counts, and the different trip generations. A Traffic Impact
Analysis tells us the existing conditions, impacts on any NCDOT TIP project,
and how operations might be affected after the development. NCDOT rates each
intersection with a level of service ranging from A through F. When a new road
opens up, it is usually rated a C or D. Usually, a turn lane is warranted when
they compare the expected volume to the threshold. Mr. Guy reiterated that
NCDOT controls every aspect of the Traffic Impact Analysis. He said that there
are a lot of resources on the NCDOT website that help explain the process.
The development group mentioned that they hoped to include affordable housing,
apartments, and an assisted living facility on the property. There is also
80,000 square feet of commercial space planned, and a lot of that will be
medical offices.
F)   Public Comment
Mayor Hatem thanked the developers for their presentation. He said that because
this was a Town Hall Meeting, he wanted to be able to give the public plenty of
time to ask questions and make comments. In-City residents would be given
preference to speak first, and then we would go back around and call on the ETJ
or non-City speakers. He asked City Clerk Dorothy Dutton to call the names of
those who signed up to speak. Ms. Dutton called on the first person, Shirley
Sullivan. Ms. Sullivan stated her name and said she resides at 5002 Seaward
Court. She stated that she did a lot of reading about the area before she moved
here. She read about how charming the area was. Now, she is worried about
traffic and parking. She asked the developers if the development would become
part of Bald Head Island or become incorporated with Southport. Mr. Chad Paul
answered that it would not become part of Bald Head Island Limited.
Jim Lightbourne stated that he resides at 316 W. West Street. He said that he
had not formed an opinion at this stage. He would like to go through some of
the assumptions being made. He asked if the annexation of the property would be
a financial benefit to the City? He added that the benefits might not apply to
Southport. The infrastructure might suffer to the point that there would be no
actual benefit.
He said that he had read through portions of the traffic impact analysis, and
he believes the study was only done for a few streets. He asked if the
assumption could be made that everyone would follow 9th Street straight to Howe
Street. He said he would cut through on Burrington down to the waterfront area.
Karen Rife, a resident at 5980 Dutchman Creek, was called to speak. She said
that when she and her family purchased their property, they knew that that area
would be developed. But she asked for clarification on how many units could be
built. Mr. Chad Paul stated that they are requesting to build 1500 units. Ms.
Rife asked what the complete environmental impacts of the project were? She
added that stormwater is already an issue. She noticed all the green areas on
the bubble diagram and asked if they would be bringing in any dirt? And she
also asked who would be paying for the roads that get torn up? Mr. Chad Paul
said they do not plan to bring any aggregate into the development. If the roads
get torn up, they will fix them. But to prevent that, they do not plan on
having the construction trucks driving in and out with supplies. They will have
a central laydown yard. The site is currently very flat and sandy. But all of
the stormwater improvements have to be approved at a state level. Their plan
probably includes more stormwater provisions than would be required.
Rebecca Kelley, a resident at 5971 Dutchman Creek, stated that she had grown up
in the Indigo Plantation area. According to the Traffic Impact Analysis, the
traffic counts were done in the morning and the afternoon. School lets out
between 3-4:00 p.m. She suggested they revisit the traffic count during that
time. Ms. Kelley asked what they planned to do with all of the coal ash dumped
on the site? And she added that Bald Head Island Limited owning the property at
the corner of Howe and 9th Street doesn’t help the general population of
Southport unless they plan to make it into a turning lane. Mr. Chad Paul said
that was the idea, to take the parking area and make it into a turning area.
The old Stevens Park area is landlocked. Coal ash was used to seed the old
fields. There is no plan to build homes on that area now. Ms. Kelley reiterated
her comment by asking if they intended to build a park on the coal ash? Mr.
Paul said that the state wants to cap it and make it a park. Mr. Jonathan Guy
said that they would revisit the traffic at the school because there have been
so many comments about the school traffic.
Frank Popelars, a resident at 1023 Captain Adkins Drive, stated that the 2021
City budget was around $8 million. If Indigo Plantation Phase 2 is approved, it
could generate $2.2 million more. That is a shortfall of almost $9 million. The
tax rate would have to be increased by 0.22 cents. Economically, the proposed
development might not be beneficial at all. Mr. Roger Perry said that Mr.
Popelars calculations were absolutely unfounded. The ad valorem taxes would
total approximately $3 million for the City. The amount of traffic has been
grossly overrated. A traffic study is science, not art. He said that City staff
would review all the documentation submitted for the project. Mr. Perry asked
Mr. Popelars to submit his calculations for review; everyone is here to work
through the process.
David McHattie, a resident of 205 E. West Street, said that he is concerned
about the traffic impacts. Their sales presentation was great for people who
are interested in buying there. The development doesn’t help the existing
residents of Southport. We need to grow Southport’s core. He wants the City to
do more to grow the existing parts. He also commented that in the 1990s, the
second phase was considered for development, and even then, they determined it
wasn’t a good idea.
Opal Grey Boehmer, a resident at 5983 Spikerush Trail, asked about the animals
already living in the forest. “Have you checked with the EPA to look for
endangered animals?” Mr. Chad Paul answered that all the lighting would be
faced down. The mass of the development is clustered, and there is plenty of
green space. The tree study has already been done. Bald Head Island Limited and
East-West Partners are great stewards of the land. They will monitor the roads
and areas like they do on Bald Head Island. Mr. Perry added that they are
pretty good at what they do. No one will move to Brunswick County to live in
the subdivision. Where do you put people who are already moving to the area? It
is better ecologically to concentrate the people and leave larger and more open
spaces. This type of development is better for the animals. McKay Siegel, with
East West Partners, said that he also has a soft spot for animals. There will
be 140 acres left on the property that will be undisturbed to save more
habitat. There was a request for City staff to speak about the two studies
being conducted.
Thomas Lloyd, Development Services Director, explained that the City works in
concert with the developer and shares the cost 50/50 to complete two studies.
One of the studies is a fiscal impact analysis. With Development, Planning &
Financing Group, Lucy Gallo will look at the proposed development and how it
would impact the general fund, fire district, etc. She will consider the
increase of services to that development and any revenue assumptions that can
be made.
Withers-Ravenel is conducting the second study. They are studying the street
conditions, sidewalk conditions, and water & sewer collaboratively with the
developer to complete the model. They are studying this particular development
and assessing the City’s infrastructure in its entirety.
Jim McKee, a resident at 114 S. Davis Street, thanked the developers for their
time. He asked how long the developers have lived in Southport? He remembers
when Bald Head Island was developed. Mr. McKee said that we have talked about
the animals and the people of Southport, but what about the dead? Mr. Perry
said they have over fifty years of experience; obviously, they follow all the
state laws. Mr. McKee asked who was going to be conducting the cultural
resource study? He is aware of a cemetery on the Indigo Plantation project site
and added that Southport could not handle another 900 people. Mr. Perry stated
that the City is under no obligation to rezone the property.
Donna Parisi, a resident at 5992 Gray Squirrel Path, asked if anyone had
considered how much congestion there would be at the ferry terminals? She
receives all the complaints from the residents of Turtlewood, and they feel
like they are forgotten in that area. There are speed bumps, and Chief Coring
is great at working with them. But already, ¾ of people don’t stop at the stop
signs. Are they planning to make any changes regarding the ferry traffic? Mr.
Guy responded that the TIA does consider ferry traffic. He admitted that the
specific intersection that she mentioned was not considered, but they could
still go out and review that area. Mr. Guy added that stop signs are one of the
things that just have to be dealt with; sometimes, they aren’t visible or are
put in the wrong place.
Jim Gandy from 5961 Spikerush Trail asked if the City has the infrastructure to
support the subdivision? He is more concerned with roads than utilities. There
might be as many as 3000 additional vehicles coming into Southport. Emergency
Services would potentially be impacted. His wife was involved in a car accident
because of the traffic near the school.
Kathy Cabral, a resident at 308 W. West Street, questioned that the annexation
was a binary choice; they will only annex if the rezoning is approved. Mr. Paul
said that it was about balance. If the City doesn’t want the things included in
the proposed project, that is okay. Mr. Perry added that this request is up to
the City, and the City should do what is best for the City. But is there a
balance or solution that suits the City and developers? He said that there is
no benefit to the developers if they only are permitted to build 900 units.
Whoever develops the property will be in it for a profit.
Mayor Hatem said that this is a learning process, and he is grateful to have
everyone in the same room. He would be happy to host another town hall meeting.
Chap Haddon, resident at 6105 Turtlewood Drive, thanked the Mayor and
developers for the opportunity to speak. He said the City needs a vision for
the next twenty years. Will the City be able to provide water? Road
maintenance? The TIA is lacking in its ability to mitigate traffic. There have
been some points of egress and ingress considered, but not all of them. Also,
the housing being built should benefit those in the service industry, too the
housing should be affordable. The current stressors on the community should be
handled before we allow more. 
Donna Mibelli, a resident at 5995 Gray Squirrel Path, questioned whether there
are enough entrances/exits in Southport to accommodate all of the current and
proposed population, especially if there is an emergency. Mr. Guy responded
that the widening of NC211 by NCDOT will help mitigate some of the emergency
concerns.
David Rose, a resident of Burrington Avenue, approached the podium and said
that he had been a resident of Southport for six years. He and his family moved
here for the quality of life. They enjoy the less-commercial aspect of
Southport, with fewer restaurants. They do not want the population to double.
He said that the developers are asking for a 60% increase over what is
currently allowed, which would be a population increase of approximately 3795
people. He hasn’t heard anything that will benefit the City yet, and there are
some huge missing pieces. He hopes that the Board only allows them to build the
minimum.
G).   Adjourn
Mayor Hatem stepped in because no one else signed up to speak. He said it was a
great meeting, but it was probably time to end because it was 8:30 p.m. He
thanked everyone for attending. The meeting was adjourned at 8:33 p.m.
                     _____________________________________
                     Joseph P. Hatem, M.D., M.P.H.
                     Mayor, City of Southport
__________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
APRIL 6, 2022
SPECIAL WORKSHOP MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  SPECIAL WORKSHOP MINUTES
                   STREET LIGHT POLICY
COMMUNITY BUILDING APRIL 6, 2022
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT: Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor Pro-tem Karen Mosteller; Aldermen Tom
Lombardi, John Allen, Robert Carroll, and Rich Alt
ABSENT: Alderman Lowe Davis
STAFF PRESENT:
Gordon Hargrove, City Manager
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
Lisa Anderson, Assistant Comm. Director
Allayna Dail, Tourism & Comm Admin.
A)   Call to Order
Mayor Hatem called the special workshop to order at 6:01 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Mayor Hatem said that in the absence of Alderman Reverend Davis, we would have
a moment of silence for Ukraine.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
Mayor Hatem led everyone in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Approval of Agenda
Alderman Lombardi made a motion to approve the agenda, which Mayor Pro-tem
Mosteller seconded. All ayes. Motion carried.
E)   Draft Street Light Policy Review
Mayor Hatem quoted Emily Dickenson, Alfred Lord Tennyson, Conrad Richter, and
the book of Genesis with sentiments and thoughts about the importance of light.
He added, “without light, where would we be?” Mayor Hatem thanked the street
light committee and City staff. The Mayor asked Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller to
begin her draft policy review. She said that street lights are important for
the City-for staying in character and maintaining health and safety. The light
policy applies to existing and new subdivisions. Preserving the natural beauty
of the night sky is of the utmost importance, but we also want to maintain a
safe environment and preserve the historic character. The Dark Skies program
recommends facing street lights down and using lightbulbs that are no brighter
than 3000 kelvins. This draft policy includes the City limits and the ETJ
areas.
There are three choices for use in subdivisions if the subdivision wants the
City to take over the light maintenance. The “standard City street lights” use
a wooden pole to camouflage into the background. Alderman Mosteller explained a
flowchart to help people understand the policy. The “Southport special dome”
lighting is preferable in the designated historic district. When an electrical
service goes underground or something breaks, it will be replaced with the new
policy selections.
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller began walking through the draft policy. Typically,
artificial lights are mounted at thirty-feet high. The draft policy specifies
that they cannot be mounted more than forty feet high. Different areas of the
City have different electrical providers. For example, Rivermist is in the City
limits but gets electricity from Brunswick Electric Membership Cooperative. The
City will reimburse Rivermist for the amount we would pay for our light
fixtures, $11.75 each. Alderman Alt asked if we would do the same for Price’s
Creek subdivision if we take over their roads and street lights? Mayor Pro-tem
Mosteller agreed that we would.
One of the biggest conversations to have is the color of the lights. A
demonstration was set up on Softwind in the Hammocks subdivision, with (4)
different color temperatures. We appreciate any feedback. LED lights have
become the standard. Years ago, the LED lights had temperature colors over 4000
kelvins. But now LED lights with 2700 kelvins are available. 2700 is a typical
incandescent light color/temperature. Currently, we still have some sodium-
vapor fixtures. They are about 2000 kelvins, so they look so amber-hued.
Alderman Alt mentioned that the Dark Skies program states that 3000 kelvin is
the maximum. That means that we can choose between 2700 and 3000 kelvin. He
mentioned that most everyone supports the 2700 kelvin light temperature.
Alderman Lombardi asked if amber lighting was better in the fog? Mayor Pro-tem
Mosteller said that was true. She had recently learned that the wave of light
doesn’t scatter as much with amber lighting. Alderman Alt asked if an HOA could
pay for the updated fixtures so that they could upgrade them all at the same
time? Ms. Mosteller said that was absolutely a possibility.
F.) Public Questions and Comments
Jenny Prunty, a resident at Indigo Plantation, wanted to confirm that it would
be replaced with one of the newer fixtures when a light goes out. Mayor Pro-tem
Mosteller agreed.
Glen Price applauded the move to the 2700 kelvin lights. He said that he still
feels like the intensity of the light fixtures needs to be addressed. It is not
good if it is still beaming into someone’s home. While doing research, he has
found a device that allows the intensity to be dialed back. Mayor Pro-tem
Mosteller said that they are recommending 20 as the peak intensity. And she
added that now if a resident wants to change a light or the location of a light
in your neighborhood, there must be approvals from the adjacent properties.
Adam Steadman, a resident at Indigo Plantation, thanked the committee,
especially Ms. Mosteller, Mr. Alt, and the City Manager. He fully supports the
2700 kelvin light fixtures. He also supports the intensity reduction device. He
added that if his HOA wanted to change all of the fixtures simultaneously, he
would be willing to help. Mr. Steadman said that he has one more suggestion for
the residential areas. He thinks it would be fantastic if there were one more
type of fixture that would block the light all around, except for the point or
tip of the lightbulb, and that it would be faced down, more like a spotlight.
Yvonne Moody resides on Marshgrass Court. She asked if the regulations apply to
the marina area. The lights from the marina are visible from her porch. She
added that it is not shielded and seemed particularly bright. Mayor Pro-tem
Mosteller said that the marina light fixtures would be considered
grandfathered. But any future lighting or replacement lighting would have to be
compliant.
City Manager Gordon Hargrove asked Ms. Mosteller to explain the process when a
resident asks for additional lights. The adjacent properties would have to
agree to the extra lighting. The City would have to approve the request, and
the City would bear the financial expense. If a resident wants a light fixture
relocated, they would have to pay for the total cost.
G.) Board Comments-there were no other comments from the Board. 
H.) Adjourn
Mayor Hatem thanked everyone again for attending and participating. Mayor Pro-
tem said that she looks forward to having this on the agenda at the April Board
of Aldermen meeting. After a motion to adjourn by Alderman Lombardi and
seconded by Alderman Allen, the meeting was adjourned at 6:40 p.m. All ayes.
Motion carried.
                     _____________________________________
                     Joseph P. Hatem, M.D., M.P.H.
                     Mayor, City of Southport
__________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
APRIL 14, 2022
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING APRIL 14, 2022
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
6:00 p.m.
Present:    Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor Pro Tem Karen Mosteller, Aldermen
Thomas Lombardi, Rich Alt, Lowe Davis, Robert Carroll, and John Allen.
Staff Present:   Gordon Hargrove, City Manager
   Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
   Norwood Blanchard, III, City Attorney
   Thomas Lloyd, Developmental Services Director
   Randy Jones, Communications/Tourism Director
   Lisa Anderson, Asst. Communications Director
   Allayna Dail, Tourism and Communications Administrator
   Heather Hemphill, Parks and Recreation Director
   Kate Marshall, Animal Control
   Todd Coring, Police Chief
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   Ralph Treadway, EMS Battalion Chief
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
   Teresa Jones, Tax Collector and Finance Specialist
Others Present: Tish Hatem, Will Hewitt, Jason Robbins, Harley Lemons, Jennifer
and Harvey Fontaine, Fred Fiss, Loten Masker, Amy Aycock, Carter Hubbard, Joe
Cook with Amick Equipment, Eliot Duke with the State Port Pilot, and many other
interested citizens attended.
Meetings are now open to the public. Complete audio/video is available on the
City's website or can be requested from the City Clerk's office.
A.)
   Mayor Joseph P. Hatem called the meeting to order at 6:01 p.m. and welcomed
everyone to the meeting. He thanked everyone for attending the meeting or
watching online.
B.)
   Mayor Hatem asked Alderman Reverend Lowe Davis to provide the invocation.
C.)
   Mayor Hatem led the pledge of allegiance.
D.)   Public Comment:
Mayor Hatem stated that an additional town hall meeting would be scheduled
after the Planning Board makes a recommendation to the Board of Aldermen. He
said that he was excited to announce that Bay Street and Howe Street would be
getting paved very soon. Mayor Hatem then asked the City Clerk Dorothy Dutton
to call upon the individuals signed up for public comment.
Ms. Dutton called Kathy Cabral to the podium. She stated her name and address,
308 W. West Street. Ms. Cabral said that anyone who attended the Mayor’s town
hall meeting the previous week could read the room to see that the people of
Southport are not great supporters of the Indigo project. She questioned who
made the project so binary because it is not a binary decision. She asked why
the property has to be developed at all. There are several land and
conservation trusts that might be interested, or maybe the City could purchase
it to keep it undeveloped.
Ms. Dutton asked Mr. Harley Lemons to approach the podium for public comment.
He wants to discuss potholes and road signage. He has used the online
maintenance request before, but he wondered if City maintenance staff could
just repair the holes when they are identified. Mr. Lemons added that traffic
controls are out control. There are yield signs on a straight a-way, and he
doesn’t know who he is yielding to because the other street has stop signs. He
wanted to know who authorized the traffic controls in that manner.
Rebecca Kelly addressed the Board next. She said that she resides in Indigo
Plantation. She said that she was grateful that the new City attorney was
present. She described the new general statute that pertains to local
government officials participating in contracts with the non-profits that they
are affiliated with and stated that Dosher Hospital is a 501(c)3. She
questioned the Mayor’s position in presiding over the Indigo Planation Phase 2
meetings because of his employment with the hospital. She suggested that
perhaps the Mayor Pro tem might be better suited to handle the Indigo meetings.
E.)   Approval of Agenda
Alderman Allen made a motion to approve the agenda, as presented. Alderman
Lombardi seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.
F.)   Approval of Consent Agenda
   1.   Minutes of the Regular Board of Aldermen Meeting March 10, 2022
   2.   Minutes of the Special Board of Aldermen Closed Session 11th, 2022
   3.   Minutes of the Special Board of Aldermen Joint Meeting March 24, 2022
   4.   Amendment to Noise Ordinance-POSTPONED
   5.   Shoreline Stabilization Proposal Approval-POSTPONED
   6.   Resolution in Support of Requesting ARPA Funding or Adding Capacity to
Existing Wastewater Treatment Plan
   7.   Resolution in Support of Requesting ARPA Funding for Rehab of 1913
Sewer System
   8.   Resolution in Support of Requesting ARPA Funding for I & I Study
   9.   Resolution to Surplus and Sell Police Vehicles by Sealed Bid
Mayor Hatem gave a summary of the Consent Agenda items.  Alderman Lombardi made
a motion to approve the consent agenda, as presented. Mayor Pro-tem seconded.
All ayes. Motion carried.
G.)  Special Recognition-
   1.   Mayor Hatem recited the Proclamation for Arbor Day. Alderman Davis
explained that the Forestry Committee had something special planned this year
for Arbor Day. There would be a program on April 29th on the steps of Fort
Johnson.
   2.   Mayor Hatem read the Proclamation for Earth Day.
   3.   Mayor Hatem said a few words about Jenna Fontaine who served on the
Board of Adjustment for over ten years. He presented her with a plague in
gratitude for her service. Harley Lemons, the Board of Adjustment Chair also
said that the Board was grateful for Jenna’s service and for providing insight
and perspective to each case they heard.
H.)    Agenda
   1.
   Mayor Hatem said the first item on the agenda was a discussion about
increasing the City’s contribution to the Neighbor 4 Neighbor program. Teresa
Jones, Finance Specialist explained that the program was created in 2020 to
assist residents who had difficulty paying their monthly utility bill. There
are (16) seniors participating on a regular basis, and 4-5 non-senior
participants. When the program was created, the City offered $20 a month.
Because the rates increased in March, there is renewed need for assistance.
City staff is proposing $40 a month. Alderman Alt asked if there was money in
the budget to increase the contribution? Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller answered that
there was enough in the budget because they allocated about $10,000 a year.
Senior assistance is provided by the Board’s contributions. Non-senior
contributions are made from public donations. Alderman Lombardi made a motion
to approve the increase the amount of assistance to $40 a month. Mayor Pro-tem
Mosteller seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.  
   2.
   Funding a Study of the West Side of Howe From Owens to 11th Street.-REMOVED
   3.
   Revisiting the Issuer Credit Rating-POSTPONED
   4.
   Mayor Hatem called Public Services Director forward to speak about proposed
purchase of a street sweeper. Mr. Stanley said that the current street sweeper
has not been operational in the last eight or nine months. The current street
sweeper was purchased in 2001. We opened bids for a new street sweeper back in
February. Amick Equipment sold the City its current street sweeper. City staff
has selected the TYMCO 600 non CDL, which is the same model that we’ve had. Now
there are new features that reduce the sound and increase efficiency. Tom
Stanley added that Amick Equipment is honoring their proposal even though the
chassis price is increasing. And the equipment company has reduced their lead
time to between 120-140 days. The price is $269,640.00. Alderman Davis inquired
as to which streets get swept and wondered if it was a wise purchase if only a
limited number of streets were swept. Alderman Allen said that he believed it
helped with the City’s floodplain management program. Mr. Thomas Lloyd
confirmed that street sweeping helps reduce the rate of flood insurance for
everyone in the community. Alderman Lombardi asked about whether the City could
benefit from having the water pump on the street sweeper. Alderman Lombardi
made a motion to purchase the selected street sweeper and water tank. Alderman
Allen seconded. Five ayes, and one no from Alderman Davis. Motion carried.
There was a few other comments about the noise it will generate. Joe Cock, from
Amick Equipment said that the machine is quieter now, has better emissions, a
better broom, and it is air- sealed for less noise.
   5.
   Alderman Lombardi explained that the Board of Adjustment interview committee
had selected Kate Seigler to serve on the Board of Adjustment member as a full
ETJ member. He added that she is very smart and has a law degree. A motion was
made by Alderman Lombardi to approve the Board of Adjustment’s recommendation.
Alderman Davis seconded the motion. Motion carried. 
   6.
   Heather Hemphill provided an update on the Taylor Field project. The project
went out for bids and City staff would like the Board to consider approving the
contract with MZK, which was the lowest bid. The estimate is below the funding
that is allocated for the project, but they will find creative ways to use the
balance of the funding. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller made a motion to approve the
contract with MZK, as presented. Alderman Davis seconded the motion. All ayes.
Motion carried.
   7.
   Public Services Director, Tom Stanley addresses the Board about some
misconceptions about the 9th Street pump station. There was a page in the
agenda that lists all of the sewer spills over the last few years. There
haven’t been many. Sewer spills are never good news, but we know that our sewer
system is in bad shape. The pump stations overflow because of the amount of
inflow and infiltration. They have already changed all of the mechanical
aspects of the station that they could manage. The pump station rehabs will
help the situation, but it will not fix everything. Typically, they send about
400, 000 gallons of wastewater a day for processing. During Hurricane Florence,
1 million gallons was sent for processing. That means that 600,000 gallons of
that was rain or ground water. Alderman Lombardi asked how much that is costing
us? Tom Stanley said he believed it to be around $317,000 that we paid the
County. Alderman Alt asked if the pump stations were rebuilt, would the 300,000
gallons that the station was designed for, be reset? Mr. Stanley said that the
design is up to the engineer. They can redesign it to increase capacity. City
Manager Gordon Hargrove said that it is a two-part process. The first step is
the pump station rehab, and then the I & I Study. Mayor Hatem reiterated that
there is not sewage spilling into the creeks.
   8.
   Gordon Hargrove stated that the City has received $2 million towards
infrastructure repairs. The City solicited bids for pump station rehab. Several
bids were received and there is a chart comparing the two recommended
companies. Staff asks the Board for the final selection and also authorize the
City Manager to enter into the contract with a $100,000 cap. Alderman Lombardi
made a motion to select WK Dickson and authorize the City Manager to enter into
the contract. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   9.
   City Manager Gordon Hargrove stated that City staff had also solicited bids
for an engineering firm to provide general engineering services and ARPA
services. Mr. Hargrove recommended contracting with two different firms so that
the City is never held up on projects. City staff recommends WK Dickson and
Wooten Engineering. A motion was made by Alderman Lombardi, which was seconded
by Alderman Allen, to contract with WK Dickson and Wooten Engineering for on-
call engineering services and authorize Mr. Hargrove to contract with both
firms. All ayes. Motion carried.
   10.
   Mayor Hatem skipped ahead on the agenda and went on to the Southport
Crossing major subdivision. The property is zoned Highway Commercial. They are
proposing a 40-foot right-of- way for access. The Planning Board recommended
approval. Mr. Nichols, one of the developers, added that there are no wetlands
on the parcel. Alderman Allen made a motion to approve the Southport Crossing
major subdivision, as presented. The motion was seconded by Mayor Pro- tem
Mosteller. All ayes. Motion carried.
   11.
   Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller reviewed the proposed Street Light Policy.
   “ Street lights can be part of the health and safety of a community and an
important design element that contributes to the overall look and feel of a
community.
   Part of the stated purpose of the policy is to reduce negative impacts on
wildlife, human eye sensitivity and the natural beauty of the night sky while
providing light to enhance safety and the City appearance.
   This policy has been available for review, we created a test light situation
so citizens could evaluate different color temperatures. The overwhelming
feedback we received favored the warmest color which was 2700 Kelvin.
   We had a special public workshop last week to review this policy and provide
for additional public comment…briefly just a few comments…
   The policy includes a list of approved fixtures that are consistent with
Dark Skies certification and a map identifying the locations for the types of
fixtures.
   We live in an environmentally sensitive coastal area and while all
artificial light impacts wildlife, we refer to recommendations from the
International Dark Skies Association, a non-profit recognized as a leader in
providing support and technical assistance for policy makers.
   We have some unique situations with regard to our electric utilities. The
policy also clarifies the responsibilities of the city regarding maintenance
and operation of street lights on city maintained roads. And clarifies the
city’s responsibility regarding street lights in communities like Rivermist.
When Rivermist was developed, the city decided to allow Brunswick Electric to
be their provider of electricity.
   While Rivermist has city maintained roads, they are unique because their
electric service is not provided by the city and the HOA pays for all the
street lights starting with J. Swain Blvd.
   This year’s City Budget includes about $99,000 dollars designated for street
light operation and maintenance. This is not part of the Electric enterprise
fund; this is a line item in the general fund.    The $99,000 breaks down to a
monthly charge of $11.75 for operation and maintenance of each of the City’s
street lights.
   Because the Rivermist Community and Townhomes electric service is provided
by Brunswick Electric, they have lease agreements and pay Brunswick Electric
for their street lights. Since Rivermist has city maintained streets, which
would typically include the city maintaining the street lights, the committee
thought it appropriate for the city to reimburse the Rivermist HOA’s, $11.75, a
month, per street light. This would result in an additional $10,575 dollars
annually reflecting a 10% increase to the Street light budget.”
   Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller made a motion to adopt the proposed Street Light
Policy and plan for    the inclusion of the Rivermist Community and Townhomes
for a total of 75 street lights in the     Street Light budget in the General
Fund starting with the adoption of the 22-23 city budget    beginning July 1,
2022. Alderman Alt wanted to clarify that any Home Owners Association can
   spend their own money to replace all of their street lights at one time.
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller    agreed that was correct. The motion to approve the
proposed street light policy was seconded by    Alderman Carroll. All ayes.
Motion carried. 
   12.
   Gordon Hargrove asked the Board to schedule at least two days as budget
workshops. There was some discussion about when the community building was
available. The budget workshops were scheduled for May 9th and May 10th. Both
workshops will begin at 10:00 a.m.
   13.
   Mr. Hargrove went back to the selection of the contractor for the Bay Street
resurfacing. Mr. Hargrove said that the City received three bids. Fred Smith
Company was the lowest bidder. Mr. Hargrove asked the Board to approve Fred
Smith Company as the contractor, authorize him to enter into contract and also
allow a 10% allowable change order, if needed. Alderman Lombardi motioned to
select Fred Smith Company, authorize Mr. Hargrove to enter into contract and
authorize a 10% change order. The motion was seconded by Alderman Allen. All
ayes. Motion carried.
I.)   Committee Reports
Alderman Allen said that the Planning Board is very busy reviewing the Indigo
project. Alderman Carroll and Alderman Alt stated that they had nothing to
report. Alderman Davis reported that the Arbor Day ceremony and Nature Fest was
coming up soon. The Forestry Committee will have a booth at Nature Fest and
will be able to answer questions. Alderman Lombardi stated that the
Beautification Committee had another successful cleanup on the past Saturday
and are getting ready to start the spring planting. He thanked all of the
volunteers. The Beautification Committee welcomes anyone who would like to
participate. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller made the following comments:
   “Earlier this week, the Parks and Recreation Advisory Board met with our
consultant, Dr. Jim Herstine, to finalize the citizen survey that will, along
with focus groups, be the basis for much of the updates to the Parks and
Recreation and Open Space Master Plan. The survey will be available beginning
in May.
In addition to being able to access the survey online on the City website,
citizens will be able to pick up a hard copy of the survey at City Hall or the
Parks and Recreation Dept. Office beside the gym.
Our Parks and Rec Director Heather Hemphill asked me to emphasize the
importance of completing the survey. There will also be three public workshops
to provide opportunities for citizens to be actively involved.
Please be on the lookout…the survey and public workshops are going to be
scheduled in May and June of this year. Citizen input will drive the success
and outcome of this process and the planning goals in  Southport’s updated 2023
to 2028 Parks and Recreation and Open Space Master Plan.
Also, on April 22, the Parks and Rec. Department will be submitting the pre-
application for the NC Public Beach and Waterfront Access Grant, otherwise
known as a CAMA Access Grant . This is the first step in the CAMA grant process
to determine if a future kayak launch at the end of West West is eligible for
grant funding.
As a reminder, the Parks and Rec Advisory Board regular meeting is scheduled
each month on the second Tuesday at 6:30 pm at the Indian Trail Meeting Hall.
The public is invited to attend.”
J.)   Manager's Report
City Manager Gordon Hargrove said that City staff has been busy with the ARPA
grant applications, Indigo Plantation reviews and budget preparation. The CAMA
exemption for the City dock is coming soon. The FEMA authorization for Kingsley
pier is coming soon. He thanked the hard work of City staff. He specifically
thanked Chief Charles Drew and Battalion Chief Ralph Treadway, Thomas Lloyd,
Melanie Trexler, and Tom Stanley. He read a letter that was sent to him about
Police Chief Coring and said that the City is very fortunate to have him on our
staff. Mr. Hargrove also thanked Heather Hemphill for her continued drive in
working on the City dock and keeping up with all the moving pieces. He knows
that City staff is working hard, and he appreciates it.
K.   Mayor's Report
Mayor Hatem said that he wanted to mention the passing of Ms. Barbara Gore.
Thanks to Emergency Services. He asked the public to check the event calendar
for all of the upcoming events. He also said that the Staff Reports are
included in the packet. And he is proud of all of the work that City staff
does.
L.   Board Comments
Alderman Allen reminded everyone that the Spring Festival is the upcoming
weekend. He hopes that everyone has a happy and special Easter weekend.
Alderman Alt thanked Gordon Hargrove. He thought there was a gap in the sewer
study, but Mr. Hargrove is going to include the area in the I & I study. He
said that there is more bacteria in Price’s Creek than should be, and he is
going to try to connect the dots to see how to verify the testing that has been
done.
Alderman Davis thanked the Fire Department for the new t-shirt. She said that
the following Saturday is the unveiling of the historical plaque at the John F.
Smith Cemetery. That is the only African-American cemetery on the National
Registry. There will be music and refreshments.
Alderman Lombardi said that he is thankful the Board is finally talking more
about infrastructure.
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller
M.   Adjourn
Mayor Hatem stated that it had been a great meeting; and great reports.
Alderman Lombardi made a motion to adjourn the meeting, which Mayor Pro-tem
Mosteller seconded. All ayes. Motion carried. Mayor Hatem adjourned the meeting
at 7:55 p.m.
                     _______________________________________
                     Joseph P. Hatem, M.D., M.P.H.
                     Mayor, City of Southport
 
______________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
MAY 9, 2022
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
223 E. BAY STREET  MAY 9, 2022 10:00 A.M.
COMMUNITY BUILDING SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Joseph P. Hatem
         Mayor Pro-tem Karen Mosteller; Aldermen Lowe Davis, Rich Alt,
         John Allen, Tom Lombardi, and Robert Carroll
STAFF PRESENT:
Gordon Hargrove, City Manager
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
Thomas Lloyd, Development Services Director
Randy Jones, Tourism & Comm. Director
Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
Allayna Dail, Tourism & Comm Administrator
Kate Marshall, Animal Protective Services
Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
Charles Drew, Chief Southport Fire Department
OTHERS PRESENT: Eliot Duke, from the State Port Pilot and one concerned
citizen.
A)   Call to Order
Mayor Hatem called the budget workshop to order at 10:05 a.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Lowe Davis gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
Mayor Hatem led everyone in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Mayor Remarks
   Mayor Hatem welcomed everyone to the meeting. He said it is impossible to
move  forward without knowing where you came from. He mentioned that last year,
the Board had established some goals focusing more on preserving the natural
beauty of the City. He also added that the County does their revaluation, but
what are some other sources of revenue? The City wants to retain the talent by
providing competitive wages. Mayor Hatem said that he was happy to be at the
workshop and part of the discussion.
E)    Approval of Agenda
Alderman Allen made a motion to approve the agenda as presented. Alderman
Lombardi seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.
F)   Opening Comments
   City Manager Gordon Hargrove thanked the Mayor and Board of Aldermen for
their time. He said that there was a lot of work in front of the Board. The
Board will be considering a COLA increase. It is important to retain talent and
attract good talent to the City. Staff is asking for a few new positions to
help increase the efficiency and handle the upcoming workloads. The EMS budget
has been separated from the Fire Department budget this year. A tax increase is
necessary this year. The revenue needed to complete some of the City’s projects
can be derived from a combination of a tax increase and general fund balance.
Mr. Hargrove then welcomed Ms. Heather Hemphill to the podium to review the
Park and Recreation proposed budget for FY 22-23.
G) Department Presentations
   a.)
   Ms. Hemphill gave a status update for several ongoing projects. She said
that the PART-F grant project Taylor Field will be starting soon. The proposed
salaries are dependent on    Board decisions. Everything in their budget has
gone up because general costs for goods and    services have increased,
including t-shirts, fuel, and supplies. They are requesting to lease an
additional 15-passenger van to rotate the big bus out of line. She recommends
keeping the bus because it is a huge help in emergency evacuation situations.
The Kingsley Park and Taylor Field projects have separate budgets. She is
asking for funding for cross braces under the capital building fund. The City
must be ready to provide a 25% match    towards the kayak launch. They applied
for a grant through CAMA, but the 25% match    combines the $25,000 donation
from the marina and $13,000 from the City. The proposed cost of the kayak
launch is $150,000, including the walkway to the launch and two launches. If
CAMA thinks the project is worthy based on the pre-application, they will ask
the City to officially apply at the end of June. Alderman Davis asked for
clarification about how    much the marina was donating. Mayor Pro-tem
Mosteller said that during the meetings with the marina, they didn’t agree to
donate a percentage, but a total of $25,000. Alderman Davis also asked whether
Parks and Recreation have considered leasing electric vehicles or hybrids?
Alderman Lombardi said that the price for hybrid vehicles is too high right
now. Alderman Davis suggested they consider all the aspects of vehicles,
including maintenance and fuel expenses. She said that it might be worth
considering. Mr. Hargrove agreed that it    was a    good idea, but there is
not enough time to work it in for this budget cycle. If the Board would like
staff to research it, they certainly can.
   Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller asked about the Parks and Recreation utility budget.
Ms. Hemphill    said that the line item covers all her facilities, but the
Garrison building. Mayor Pro-   tem Mosteller suggested that Ms. Hemphill bring
her rates to the Rate Committee for review, the rates have not changed since
2018. Ms. Hemphill said there are (2) full-time employees and (5) part-time
employees in the department. They are a small department, but they offer a lot
to the citizens. Mayor Hatem mentioned the friendships that come from using the
services with Parks and Recreation and how much impact they have on the
   children. Ms. Hemphill encouraged the Board, City staff, and the public to
attend the basketball games. They are very good games, and they are free. The
gym is where a lot of    players get their start and end up playing for their
college or even with the NBA.
   Aldermen Davis asked if there was enough in the budget to cover all the
necessities like dog-waste bags, signage, and other necessities for the dog
park. Ms. Hemphill said that the Animal Protective Services Director, Kate
Marshall, had applied for a grant that would help cover some of these expenses.
Alderman Davis asked about placing benches at the proposed    dog park at
Taylor Field. Ms. Hemphill said that the funding for the benches would have to
be approved by the committee, but she knows many people who have asked about
donating    a bench to the facility. She believes that they will have enough
donations to offset the cost.
   There was some discussion between Mr. Hargrove, Aldermen Lombardi, Alderman
Alt, and Alderman Carroll about electric charging stations for vehicles. Mr.
Hargrove said City staff would have to research the topic and report back to
the Board later.
   b.)
   Mayor Hatem welcomed Fire Chief Charles Drew. Chief Drew thanked the Mayor
and    Board for allowing him to speak to the Board and for all of their
continued support. Chief Drew gave a brief history of the Southport Fire
Department and the staffing throughout the years. He said that the current
scheduling needs had been a    challenge because of the size of    the fire
district and the increased population during the tourist season. They must
answer fire calls with a flow rate of 3000 gallons per minute, so they
typically have to take more than one truck. The required fire flow is based on
the number of homes and businesses in the district. The fire department
includes the main headquarters on Howe Street and three substations. The fire
department is a City department, but they also have other funding mechanisms,
including fire fees and grants. There are currently (5) full-time firefighters.
   Chief Drew said that he truly appreciates their volunteers for everything
they do. Because volunteers are not employed with the City, City staff doesn’t
have as much control over    what the volunteers say and do. In addition, there
have been some occasions when volunteers make more than full-time staff because
they do receive some pay per shift. Chief Drew would like to shift some of the
funding in his budget that covers the volunteers over to cover an additional
(5) full-time staff members. Alderman Davis asked if this type of staffing was
common for other municipalities? Chief Drew said that it was becoming more
common and that some stations have up to thirty full-time staff members.
   Alderman Davis asked if anyone had made a cost comparison or considered
whether EMS should become a regional service instead of falling under the City?
Chief Drew said that it had been discussed in the past. He recommends keeping
it in Southport. Recently there was a cardiac arrest event. Our EMS personnel
reached the man within the necessary four-minute window. The County cannot get
anywhere in four minutes. There is a unit at Caswell    Beach, Boiling Springs
Lakes, and across from St. James. There is always a shortage within the County.
   Mayor Hatem added that he also feels strongly that the EMS service should
remain in the City. Not all calls require transport, and the emergency
personnel can treat some patients or transport them to the appropriate
facility.
Alderman Alt added that the fire fee rate was set to the maximum after the most
recent fire commission meeting. To further increase the fees, the state
Legislation has to approve a request made by the County. The City can
supplement the Fire/EMS budget after the County has established its funding
levels. Alderman Alt would like the City to prepare a legislative package for
next year because we will likely need more funding. Chief Drew stated that a
committee was created to study funding mechanisms for future use. Alderman
Allen asked if the fees were set up like ad valorem taxes? Chief Drew said that
was true, except they do not increase based on population. Mayor Pro-tem
Mosteller asked if the firefighters were trained as EMS, too? Chief Drew said
they were all trained for both except for one staff member awaiting training.
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller asked if each staff member was expected to respond to a
certain number of calls or other metrics used for measuring performance? Chief
Drew said that staff is expected to respond to 20% of the calls hat are
received in a month. If they cannot reach that obligation, they have to spend
ten hours at the fire station doing chores. He added that there is more
volunteerism on the fire side than in the EMS department.
   Gordon Hargrove said that he reached out to the Board members separately
about splitting the EMS department out of the Fire department in this budget.
Now, they can see where the funding is going. As a result, the budget is
increasing to $250,000 a year. That is one reason to consider a tax increase.
   Mayor Hatem announced that there would be a quick break at 11:17 a.m. The
meeting     reconvened at 11:37 a.m. He thanked Gordon Hargrove and City staff
for putting everything together for the workshop.
   c.)
   Mayor Hatem asked Development Services Director, Thomas Lloyd up to the
front for    his department presentation. Mr. Lloyd said that he had been very
busy lately. He has had    some conversations with the City Manager, and
because of the expected growth, he is asking    for an additional person. The
position is still to be determined, but it could be a Planning Technician,
Planner I, or Planner II. Mr. Lloyd read through a list of all the proposed
developments and how many residential units are expected. All of these
approvals take staff resources, especially time. There are more application
reviews and committee meetings. If all of the proposed developments get
approved, there will be a need for an additional building inspector. Building
Inspector Kiley Barefoot is doing a great job getting his certifications, but
so much work will be generated. The other item that Mr. Lloyd is requesting in
this year’s budget is funding for travel and training. Mr. Barefoot will likely
   have to travel farther away for his Level 2 certifications. In addition,
Code Enforcement staff and the Permitting Technician will need to maintain
their Certified Zoning Official certification. Mr. Lloyd said that he would
like to start updating the CAMA    Land Use Plan, and there have been mentions
of creating a Historic Preservation Commission.
   Mr. Hargrove added that without his help and the help of City Clerk Dorothy
Dutton, both of whom are Certified Zoning Officials, the level of service would
be impossible to maintain. Alderman Alt asked for the total of all of the
residential units he listed previously. Alderman Lombardi stated that it was
approximately 600 units. Mr. Lloyd added that this growth would not be
immediate, but it is coming. Alderman Davis asked if for the definitions of the
three possible positions. Thomas Lloyd said that he didn’t have specific job
descriptions, but typically the permitting technician has less education and
experience. They would handle the more routine reviews. Planner I positions are
entry-level positions, typically with a bachelor’s or master’s degree. The
Planner II position would be for 3-5 years’ experience and higher education.
Mr. Lloyd said that having a Planner I or II would be most valuable. If he had
more time freed up, he would write more updates to the Unified Development
Ordinance. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller suggested hiring a Senior Planner. Mr.
Hargrove said that the budgeted salary would have to be increased for a
   Senior Planner position. Alderman Allen said that a Planner II might better
fit the City’s needs.
   Since there is some extra time, Mr. Hargrove said he would like to move the
Administration and Finance department presentations to today.
   d.)
   Kate Marshall, Director of Animal Protective Services, presented her
department budget next. She began by stating that her first week in this
position was the week of Hurricane Florence. This is the first time she has
contemplated hiring a part-time on-call staff    member. She is asking for a
stipend to hire some help. She said that she is also asking for    $2,000 for
tracking software. The software will help her keep track of all the calls she
   receives and if any of the areas are repeat-offenders. Mayor Pro-tem
Mosteller asked if she is compensated for her time on the weekends? Ms.
Marshall said that she is a salaried employee, so she does not get extra
compensation. But Mr. Hargrove allows her to balance out her hours. There was
more discussion about who would work part-time on-call and if Ms. Marshall had
anyone in mind. Ms. Marshall does have someone in mind for the position, and
they are usually in town on the weekends already. But she has not approached
him yet.
   Mayor Hatem added that Kate Marshall is always willing to help other
departments or citizens. Naturefest and APS’s other programs are always so
great for the community.
   Mayor Hatem announced the lunch break at 12:08 p.m. Mayor Hatem reconvened
the workshop at 12:54 p.m. He stated that the City Manager asked to revise the
agenda to add the Finance and Administration departments to the presentations
for today. A motion was made by Alderman Alt and seconded by Alderman Lombardi
to approve the revised    agenda as requested. All ayes. Motion carried.
   e.)
   Finance Director Melanie Trexler addressed the Board. She stated that she
had been with the City for eight years. She presented the Board’s budget first.
Not much would be changing. The salaries are still split between three funds.
The same is true for the City Attorney’s fees and the audit contract. Also
included in the Board’s budget it the weather tower, a donation to the school,
and Brunswick Family Assistance. It also includes the NC League of
Municipalities fees, grant writing, and the agenda software. There was some
discussion about where the funding to pay for Attorney Tom Terrell was coming
from. Ms. Trexler said funds would have to be allocated to cover those fees.
    Ms. Trexler said that the City Manager’s, City Clerk, and Deputy Clerk’s
salaries are included in the Administration budget. Those three salaries are
divided between the general, electric, and utility funds. The emergency
preparedness funds have been used for Covid for the last few years. The debt
service payment is the annual payment for the fire station.
   Ms. Trexler moved to the Finance Department budget. She said that the Human
Resources department used to be included with Administration, but a former
Manager moved it under Finance. Ms. Trexler said that it takes quite a bit of
her time to help Teresa Parker with payroll and human resources work. She would
like the Board to fund a Human Resources Director position. The HR Director
could do more programming and training. We also need a revised Personnel
Policy. Ms. Trexler added that the City now has 62 full-time staff    members.
It is too much for her to serve in both capacities. Ms. Trexler said that it is
a goal for the finance department to have all employees trained in Government
Finance to understand the big picture better. The Board and Ms. Trexler
discussed the proposed salary cost of hiring an HR Director. Ms. Trexler said
that all staff are on the LGERS retirement program except the police
department. Ms. Trexler asked the Board if they would be willing to upload a
certain amount of money on the Health Savings Card instead of the typical $95.
That way, new hires wouldn’t have to wait so long to use the benefits.
   There was some discussion about shifting offices around at City Hall. There
might be renovation costs associated with making additional offices. Mr.
Hargrove added that we are    at a premium for office space.
H)    Adjourn
The City Manager announced that that was all the material to cover for this day
of the budget workshops. Tomorrow, the Board would hear the other two
department presentations, and there would be discussions about revenue
projects, budget shortfalls, and possible tax increases.
After a motion by Alderman Lombardi and seconded by Alderman Allen, the Mayor
adjourned the meeting at 1:36 p.m. All ayes. Motion carried.
                     ____________________________________
                     Joseph P. Hatem, M.D., M.P.H.
                     Mayor, City of Southport
____________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
MAY 10, 2022
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
223 E. BAY STREET  MAY 10, 2022 10:00 A.M.
COMMUNITY BUILDING SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:      Mayor Joseph P. Hatem
         Mayor Pro-tem Karen Mosteller; Aldermen Lowe Davis, Rich Alt,
         John Allen, Tom Lombardi, and Robert Carroll
STAFF PRESENT:
Gordon Hargrove, City Manager
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
Randy Jones, Tourism & Comm. Director
Melanie Trexler, Finance Director   
Allayna Dail, Tourism & Comm Administrator
Kate Marshall, Animal Protective Services
Todd Coring, Chief of Police
Tom Stanley, Public Services Director
Ellie Pettinger, Electrical Superintendent
OTHERS PRESENT: Eliot Duke, from the State Port Pilot.
A)   Call to Order
Mayor Hatem called the budget workshop to order at 10:03 a.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Lowe Davis gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
Mayor Hatem led everyone in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Mayor Remarks
   Mayor Hatem welcomed everyone to the second day of the budget workshop. He
thanked everyone present and said that yesterday was a good day. Alderman
Davis's prayer    was for the Board to make good choices, which is so
important.
E)    Approval of Agenda
Alderman Lombardi made a motion to approve the agenda as presented. Mayor Pro-
tem Mosteller seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.
F)   Opening Comments
   City Manager Gordon Hargrove welcomed everyone in attendance. He said that
he was looking forward to another day of information and announced that Public
Services would be    addressing the Board first.
G)   Department Presentations
   a.)
   Tom Stanley said that the Electric department would be speaking first.
      i.)   Ellie Pettinger said that the City presently has 3500 electrical
customers. In two and a half years, the City could easily be serving 5000
customers, based on projected growth and proposed projects. The substation is
in fairly good shape now, but we could overload it. Higher continuous peaks are
more stressful for the system. We need to move quickly to upgrade the
substation. Alderman Davis asked if there would still be urgency if Indigo
Plantation Phase 2 weren't a factor? Mr. Pettinger said that it would still be
a more urgent need. He said that he had never seen so many vacant lots be
purchased and built on. The central substation needs to be upgraded. Alderman
Alt mentioned that he was trying to figure out the magic number that triggers
the upgrade. Mr. Pettinger said that he would say between 900-1000 customers.
Alderman Davis asked about how the City would pay for the upgrades, and Mr.
Hargrove said that the electric fund is an enterprise fund and is in good
shape. The City has to provide the power that we have available. Regardless of
the Indigo project, some upgrades were needed. There are 128 wooden poles that
need to be replaced because of their condition. Alderman Carroll asked if the
City could be more aggressive in converting electrical services to the
underground? Mayor Hatem suggested that the budget for underground should be
doubled. Gordon Hargrove announced that he had forwarded the BEMC proposed work
plan to the Board.
      ii.) Public Services Director Tom Stanley stated he feels like it has
been a successful year. He thanked his staff, Gordon Hargrove, Melanie Trexler,
Dorothy Dutton, and Jackie Smith, for all of their help.    
      There used to be three mechanics in the City garage. There is currently
just one.    There was one applicant that he wanted to hire, but they couldn't
accept the amount of money that the City could offer. Mr. Stanley is asking the
Board to fully fund a mechanic position so that another mechanic can be hired.
There is a need because of all the vehicles and generators. Previously, half of
the mechanic position was paid for by the Fire department, but there was a
stipulation that the mechanic had to be a firefighter. If the Board fully funds
the position, the mechanic does not have to be a firefighter. The expected
salary is around $18 an hour, but Ms. Trexler said she had budgeted up to $25.
There was some discussion about not charging departments for labor, only for
parts. Ms. Trexler stated that charging each department for services makes
things too complicated.
      Mr. Stanley said that the Buildings and Grounds department includes (10)
   full-time employees. There is an additional position that has remained
unfilled. City Clerk Dorothy Dutton has been placing the ads for the positions.
The department needs more help to maintain the cemeteries. After more
discussion, it was suggested that a request for proposal be submitted for a
crew to maintain the cemeteries. Mr. Stanley said that some equipment purchases
were included in the budget for routine equipment that needs to be replaced.
      This year, the 4th of July streamers were included in the Streets
department budget. Alderman Davis asked about the street sweeper listed in the
proposed budget. Mr. Stanley said that it was TYMCO 600 that was approved at
the last meeting. Since there had been more discussion about alternatives, the
street sweeper would be placed back on the Regular May Board of Aldermen
meeting agenda.
      There are (7) employees in the Water and Sewer department currently. When
he was \pulled from his regular position on a crew, his position was never
filled. Currently, there is only (1) person in charge of water. Mr. Stanley
would like to hire a person to help the water distribution operator. Alderman
Alt asked if the staff was cross trained? Mr. Stanley said that they were
cross-training. The water distribution    operator works solely with water; he
takes samples and handles meter infrastructure. He does have some staff working
with the water distribution operator, but it is hard to manage because there is
so much work for them to do. As Southport grows, so do the needs.
      Alderman Carroll said that he could tell that Tom Stanley was frustrated
by the compensation situation. The City Manager is proposing an 8% COLA.
Alderman Carroll asked Tom Stanley if that was enough? The City Manager
interjected that a few positions would need to be adjusted in addition to the
COLA increase. Alderman Alt suggested that an analysis should be done to better
account for the time spent on each type of project. Mayor Hatem explained that
the requested position is not a brand new position but adding back a position
that was never filled when Tom Stanley was promoted. Gordon Hargrove added that
the     City has a great need for an engineer. Last year, when the engineer
position was posted, no one applied. The interested people weren't able to
accept the    pay that was offered. Mr. Hargrove said that someone is moving to
the area that is interested in a part-time position as City engineer. Alderman
Carroll stated that hiring an engineer part-time is short-sighted. Tom Stanley,
Aldermen Carroll, and Lombardi agreed that the City needs a full-time engineer.
Mayor Hatem thanked Tom Stanley, Gordon Hargrove, and Melanie Trexler for the
good discussion.
   b.)
   Police Chief Todd Coring addressed the Board next. He thanked everyone for
their time. He said that the Southport Police Department is (13) member staff
and (2) civilian positions. Chief Coring said that there are currently (25)
festivals on the police calendar. He needs more personnel to help fill some
gaps. He is also asking for a full set of cameras. He said that Southport is
not a sleepy little town. Sometimes officers are hurt and killed. Mayor Burke
can help gather the data that is needed. Alderman Davis asked if the Police
Officers would be on bicycles during the summer? Chief Coring said they would,
but it is hard to respond to calls while riding a bicycle. Mayor Pro-tem
Mosteller asked Chief Coring if the Police Department was charging for the
festival attendance? She added that it would be appropriate for the Police
department to charge a fee for police attendance. She added that we all love
the festivals, but they utilize City resources without reimbursement. She
encouraged the Police department to consider reviewing these demands on
resources to understand the overall budget impacts.
   Mayor Hatem stated that the morning session had been excellent, and he
dismissed everyone    for lunch at 12:19 p.m. The meeting reconvened at 1:14
p.m.
   c.)
   Randy Jones presented his departments' budgets next. He overseas tourism,
the Garrison House, volunteers, events, communications, filming, and community
building. Currently, there are 2.5 employees in his department. He would like
to bump that up to (3) full-time    employees. He will be promoting Allayna
Dail to the Assistant Director of Tourism. And then hire someone as the
Information Specialist. Mr. Jones added that all of the tasks could not be
completed without the generous help from the volunteers. The monetary
equivalent to a volunteer's time is approximately $29.95 an hour. He is hosting
a picnic to thank the volunteers on May 17, 2022.
   Allayna Dail will remain in charge of the community building and shadow Mr.
Jones to learn more about his responsibilities. There will continue to be a
line item in the budget for audio- visual improvements. Randy Jones said that
they have learned it is more efficient to hire personnel to clean the community
building. He is requested a little more in his proposed budget this year
because the cost of software and storage has increased. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller
said that Mr. Jones's position would be better served if it were titled
Community Relations. Randy Jones agreed it would be a better fit for all they
do. Alderman Carroll asked if this budget considered all of the events and if
the expenses could be broken down to have a more uniform look at the provided
services. Mr. Jones added that he would be happy to analyze the cost of each
event. The City has not been keeping up with police, fire, or public services,
because the department does not charge for those services. There is upwards of
(25) festivals in Southport each year. Mayor Hatem said    the joy created in
the City is what Randy helps bring, and it is just wonderful. There was some
discussion about the different festivals and how much the City contributes.
   Randy Jones said that the biggest ask in the proposed budget is to replace
the floor in    the community building. It is his recommendation to replace the
floors with wood again in 2023. More than one contractor has looked at it and
said it needs to be replaced. Mr. Jones said that he wanted to commend Allayna
Dail for her work marketing the community building. The proposed revenue from
the community building was $77,000. But already, the building has made $118,000
in revenue. There was some discussion about replacing some railings outside of
the building, but Mr. Jones said that falls under Public Services, and they
have been looking at it already.
H.)   REVENUE PROJECTIONS AND BUDGET SHORTFALLS
   City Manager Hargrove said that the capital improvement plan and asset
management plan were discussed at the meetings in January. He asked the Board
to hold off on discussions because of the ARPA funding. The plans would include
water and sewer, buildings, facilities, and streets. The City is still moving
forward with the pump station rehab project. The Capital Project Ordinance
approved last year still has a balance of $480,000. The cost to pave Howe
Street is $1.8 million but is covered already. Mr. Hargrove handed out
information about how much various tax rates would increase the City revenues.
The City is approximately $1 million or $1.2 million short in the budget,
including every department's request. Mr. Hargrove explained a few options,
including a transfer of fund balance to cover the difference, increasing the
tax rate by a dime, or a combination of increasing the tax rate using fund
balance. The other option is to make no changes to salaries, personnel, or
equipment and no tax increase.
Alderman Carroll said that a ten-cent increase is just the base. He suggested
the dime tax increase and using fund balance to help with other projects. He
stated that the increase was a no-brainer for him if we continued offering the
same services. Alderman Alt suggested that fund balance remain untouched to
have the funding to cover any possible storm damage. Alderman Lombardi stated
that it seems a tax increase is inevitable this year. Mayor Hatem said the
Board could sit back and wait until the County revaluations are complete to see
how much difference it makes. In summary, the Board supported the ten cent ad
valorem tax increase to fund salary increases, create positions, and
underground electric.
Gordon Hargrove reiterated the dime increase and reserving $800,000 to relocate
electric service underground. Alderman Allen asked if BEMC even could complete
the underground electrical workload?
Gordon Hargrove said that he believed they would be able to complete the tasks.
He summarized again that the Board wanted to move forward with the ten-cent tax
increase. They want to double the efforts in converting electrical to
underground, fund the requested positions, bring the lacking positions up to
par, the 8% COLA, and the 5% merit raises. He said that Melanie Trexler would
move forward with the proposed changes and distribute it to the Board for
review.
The City Clerk was instructed to publish the notice of public hearing for the
budget for the regular Board meeting in June. Mayor Hatem thanked the Board and
City staff for attending the meeting and working hard to get through the
material.
I)    Adjourn
After a motion by Alderman Allen and seconded by Alderman Carroll, the Mayor
adjourned the meeting at 2:49 p.m. All ayes. Motion carried.
   
                     ____________________________________
                     Joseph P. Hatem, M.D., M.P.H.
                     Mayor, City of Southport
____________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
MAY 12, 2022
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING MAY 12, 2022
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
6:00 p.m.
Present: 
   Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor Pro Tem Karen Mosteller, Aldermen Thomas
Lombardi, Rich Alt, Lowe Davis, Robert Carroll, and John Allen.
Staff Present:   Gordon Hargrove, City Manager
   Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
   Norwood Blanchard, III, City Attorney
   Thomas Lloyd, Developmental Services Director
   Randy Jones, Communications/Tourism Director
   Allayna Dail, Tourism and Communications Administrator
   Heather Hemphill, Parks and Recreation Director
   Kate Marshall, Animal Control
   Todd Coring, Police Chief
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   Ralph Treadway, EMS Battalion Chief
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
   Tom Stanley, Public Services Director
Others Present: Tish Hatem, Will Hewitt, Jason Robbins, Harley Lemons, Eliot
Duke with the State Port Pilot, and many other interested citizens attended.
Meetings are now open to the public. Complete audio/video is available on the
City's website or can be requested from the City Clerk's office.
A.)
   Mayor Joseph P. Hatem called the meeting to order at 6:02 p.m. and welcomed
everyone to the meeting. He thanked everyone for attending the meeting and
watching online.
B.)
   Mayor Hatem asked Pastor Devon Varnam from Southport Baptist Church to
provide the invocation. The church is celebrating its anniversary.
C.)
   Mayor Hatem led the pledge of allegiance.
D.)   Public Comment:
Mayor Hatem asked the City Clerk to call the individuals who signed up for
public comment. Chris Clarke, a resident at 612 W. Brown Street, Unit D, was
called first. He said he is interested in saving the Indigo property. He
created an online poll that has drawn at least 300 respondents. The majority of
respondents at City-residents, but at least 80 non-residents also participated.
Many people said they would consider providing financial support to ensure that
the property would be undeveloped. He is considering making the interest group
more formal to start raising funds based on interest.
Shirley Sullivan, the resident at 5002 Seaward Court, said that she is very
concerned with the potential impacts of the Indigo project, particularly on
infrastructure. She is also concerned about the financial implications of the
increased tax rate, revaluation in January, and the expected electrical
upgrades. She also questioned whether the fire tax, Dosher hospital tax, or
County taxes would also be increasing? She realizes the City will have a hard
time finding people to work here because they cannot afford to live here. Ms.
Sullivan suggested that another Town Hall meeting be scheduled after the first
round of sub-committee meetings without the developers. She added that she is
not opposed to all growth, but managed growth is best.
Debbie Barnes, a resident at 425 W. West Street, stated that she wanted to
thank the Board. The paving of N. Howe Street went very well, and the dock
repairs are moving along. She also said that she was looking forward to using
the new dog park at Taylor Field. In closing, she thanked the police, fire, and
nursing personnel.
E.)   Approval of Agenda
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller made a motion to approve the agenda as
presented. Alderman Allen seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.
Mayor Hatem read the Ethics Statement aloud. Alderman Carroll asked to recuse
himself from the Up Your Arts Memorandum of Understanding item. Alderman Davis
asked to recuse herself from the item renaming "I Am St." Attorney Norwood
Blanchard stated that there was no conflict for her on that item.
F.)   Approval of Consent Agenda
   1.   Minutes of the Mayor's Special Town Hall Meeting April 4, 2022
   2.   Minutes of the Special Street Light Policy Workshop April 6, 2022
   3.   Minutes of the Regular Board of Aldermen Meeting April 14, 2022
   4.   American Rescue Plan Act 2021 Resolution and Ordinance
Mayor Hatem gave a summary of the Consent Agenda items.  Alderman Lombardi made
a motion to approve the consent agenda, as presented. Alderman Davis seconded.
All ayes. Motion carried.
G.)  Special Recognition-
Mayor Hatem said that there were a lot of proclamations this month. He would at
least touch on them instead of reading all of them.
   1.   Mayor Hatem announced National Hurricane Preparedness Week, May 1 -May
7. He wanted the public to know that we are prepared as much as possible should
a storm arise.
   2.   National Nurses Week is May 6th-May 12th. Nurses are typically the
first person you see at any medical practice. They are the largest group of
healthcare workers. He offered a very special thanks to the nurses at Dosher
Hospital.
   3.   Mayor Hatem read the proclamation for National Police Week, May 11th-
May 17th. 900,000 police officers are serving in the United States. Here in
Southport, our police officers act with integrity and handle tourists
graciously. He salutes their service. Police Chief Todd Coring accepted the
proclamation from Mayor Hatem.
   4.   Mayor Hatem saluted the America Red Cross on their 141st Anniversary,
May 21. He added that the Southport Fire Department hosts a blood drive on May
23 from 10 a.m.-3 p.m. at the Nash Street substation.
   5.   Mayor Hatem made a few statements about the importance of boater safety
in honor of Boater Safety Week, May 21st-May 27th.
   6.   Mayor Hatem read the Proclamation for Military Appreciation Month. He
asked those individuals who served in the military to stand, and there was a
round of applause.
H.)  Agenda
   1.
   Mayor Hatem said the first item on the agenda was to renew our contract with
Thompson, Price, Scott, Adams & Co. for auditing services for the upcoming
year. Finance Director Melanie Trexler stated that we had used their services
for the past three years. The price will remain the same. She asked the Board
to approve the contract this year, and next year they will have to take it out
for bids. Alderman Allen motioned to approve the contract with Thompson, Price,
Scott, Adams & Co. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller seconded the motion. All ayes.
Motion carried.
   2.
   David Kelly addressed the Board next regarding the draft Integrated Pest
Management Plan. Mayor Hatem added that mosquitoes pose a public health issue.
Cities need to be proactive and preventative, provide education, and manage
mosquitoes at different phases of development. David Kelly explained that the
main focus of pest management is surveillance. The threshold for treatment is
(7) mosquitoes landing on the personnel within one minute. He and other City
staff look for standing water in ditches, urban flower pots, old tires, etc.
The county will help City staff map the areas in Southport that are more likely
breeding grounds for mosquitoes. They look for larvae in standing water and,
because there is no threshold, can apply a larvicide if any larvae are
identified. The treatment for pupae is oil-based, such as neem oil. And
treating adult mosquitoes is using spray trucks. By being proactive and
unclogging culverts and other openings, they can reduce the number of
mosquitoes in a given area. Mr. Kelly added that some biological controls like
mosquito fish could be used. But arrangements would have to be made with the
homeowners' associations. Over time, patterns of "hot spots" will develop,
allowing preventative treatment. Mr. Kelly added that it is impossible to
eliminate all of the mosquitoes.
Mayor Hatem asked David Kelly if he had all the resources he needed to get
started? Mr. Kelly said that he is typically the only staff that works in pest
management, and he would like to train another staff member or hire someone to
help him with the program next year.
Alderman Alt thanked David Kelly for his hard work. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller
asked if there was a way that a resident could go online and make a complaint
if they needed mosquito treatment? Mr. Kelly said that if someone calls a
complaint into the office, a work order gets issued. Then he can keep track of
areas that might need more aggressive treatment. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller said
that she rode around most subdivisions looking at stormwater ponds. It seemed
that an area in Indigo Plantation is like a bog and would be a prime spot for
early treatment. David Kelly stated that was the area he had already started
surveilling. The Clarke T-30 tablets work great for treating wet areas. The
tablets stop working when the water dries up but resume when water collects.
There was some discussion about residents calling to request their homes not be
sprayed, but Mr. Kelly said that would mean the entire block would not get
sprayed. Mayor Pro-tem suggested that the residents could sign a waiver stating
they would take care of their property. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller made a motion
to adopt the Integrated Pest Management Plan, as presented. Alderman Allen
seconded the motion. Alderman Davis commented that she had a lot to say about
this in the past. She applauds Public Services for developing the most
effective and least harmful program but still recognizes there are health
concerns. While she understands that residents can call private companies to
spray for pests, she is still concerned about the potential damage to the bees.
And spray pesticides are not 100% effective. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller urged the
City Manager to find the funds to purchase the supplies to start treating
mosquitoes at all stages and ensure that Mr. Kelly has all the tools he needs.
Public Services Director approached the podium to inform the Board that pellets
were included in last year's budget and are available for use. He added that
the Environmental Protection Agency approves everything that is used. Mayor
Hatem called for a vote on the motion to approve the policy. Five ayes and
Alderman Davis was opposed. Motion carried 5 to 1.
   3.
   Mayor Hatem explained that a position on the ABC Board was expiring, and the
store manager requested that Mr. Davis be reappointed to the Board. Mayor Pro-
tem Mosteller motioned to reappoint Mr. Davis to the ABC Board. Alderman
Lombardi seconded the motion. Alderman Carroll commented that he would like to
understand the appointment and interview process better. Alderman Carroll would
like other people interested in serving to have the opportunity. Alderman Alt
said that he supports Alderman Carroll's opinion. Alderman Alt added that prior
service does not indicate that you are the most qualified. Mayor Pro-tem
Mosteller withdrew her motion and motioned to table it until interviews could
be scheduled. Alderman Carroll seconded the motion to table the item. All ayes.
Motion carried.
   4.
   Mayor Hatem called Public Services Director Tom Stanley to discuss the
street sweeper purchase. Mr. Stanley stated that the Board approved the
purchase of the TYMCO 600 Regenerative street sweeper at April's regular Board
meeting. But the Board was interested in revisiting the options. He explained
that regenerative air technology has many benefits, including improving
stormwater run-off, air quality improvements, and reducing road hazards.
Alderman Davis asked Mr. Stanley to obtain information about different street
sweepers, including electric or hybrid street sweepers and more manual
equipment. The diesel TYMCO 600 street sweeper will cost approximately
$275,000. The hybrid street sweeper is estimated at $700,000, and the electric
street sweeper is approximately $500,000. Mr. Stanley said that he didn't
understand the apprehension with ordering the diesel sweeper; was it the money?
Was it the noise? There are expected pros and cons with each type of sweeper.
But the technology is very new, so the long-lasting expectations and reviews
are unknown. We don't know the maintenance costs associated with the electric
or hybrid sweepers. The last year that the City used its old sweeper, the
maintenance cost was $1700.
Alderman Davis thanked Mr. Stanley for investigating other options. She asked
if it would be feasible to share a street sweeper with another municipality?
Mr. Gordon Hargrove said that he had contacted some other municipalities, but
they were not interested. Alderman Davis said that she thought it was a bad
investment to purchase an expensive piece of equipment that will be used for
twenty years that uses diesel fuel. Alderman Allen made a motion to approve the
purchase of the TYMCO 600 street sweeper as presented. He added that he is not
in love with spending so much, but it is part of best management practices.
Alderman Lombardi seconded the motion. Everyone voted in favor of the motion
except Alderman Davis. Motion carried 5 to 1.
   5.
   Mayor Hatem asked Mr. Thomas Lloyd to explain the tree preservation
ordinance amendment . Mr. Lloyd said that the proposed amendment states that
trees in stormwater pond areas do not have to be mitigated. There will still be
protection for live oaks. If a live oak is removed, it will have to be
replaced. This amendment allows some flexibility in road design. Mitigation
will no longer be required for dead or damaged trees. Mr. Lloyd added that the
Planning Board found the amendment consistent with the Land Use Plan and
recommended approving the amendment. Alderman Davis stated that the Forestry
Committee had worked with the Planning Board on this amendment. Mr. Lloyd
agreed and stated that one concern of the Forestry Committee was overplanting.
The urban forest would not be healthy because there were too many trees.
Alderman Carroll motioned to adopt the Land Use Consistency Statement and the
amendment as presented. Alderman Davis seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   6.
   Mayor Hatem asked Bonnie Bray to address the Board about the Up Your Arts
proposal for the old City Hall building near the waterfront. Ms. Bray said that
the Up Your Arts committee hopes to breathe new life into an old building. They
hope to create a viable community center where local shows can occur; chamber
music ensembles can perform, committee meetings can take place, and maybe
cooking classes. The building will be handicapped-accessible and will hopefully
have a rooftop deck for observing the Cape Fear River. She unveiled the
drawings from the architect. She added that they have not been able to locate a
survey plat for the property. Ms. Bray stated that this committee would see the
first part of the project through to the end, at least through the first set of
drawings. Eventually, a Board of Trustees will be formed. Alderman Alt asked
Ms. Bray what the end game was? And who will own the building? Ms. Bray said
they hope to rent the building from the City for $1 a year to operate it as the
community arts center. Alderman Alt replied that he expects most of the public
would be in favor of this project, but the public should be asked. Mayor Pro-
tem Mosteller made the following comments:
"Thank you. I recognize with gratitude the commitment and work Up Your Arts
Board members and volunteers have dedicated to helping make our community a
better place. Tonight we are talking about the continued relationship between
Up Your Arts and the City to facilitate a future for the old courthouse that
served as City Hall.
However, Up Your Arts is so much more! They promote the arts with festivals
like Plein Art, attracting artists from around the state, concerts, music tour
of homes, sponsoring a regular open mic night on Thursdays at American Fish,
the amazing Door Project … and this year, Up Your Arts, as a participating
member of the 4th of July Committee is coordinating 30 performance acts to
provide free live music at venues in Southport and Oak Island during the 4th of
July celebration this year. These events provide our community with
entertainment and help our local musicians and artists grow their audience and
craft.
Back to the MOU. As a non-profit, Up Your Arts, raised 90% of the funds needed
to complete the Architectural Services portion in Phase 2 of the proposed
project. Up Your Arts has worked to keep this project moving forward and I
would like to make a motion …to have the City Attorney review the memorandum of
understanding and bring it to the Board for consideration at the June 9th
meeting.
She understands that the chamber/board room will remain available for their
Board meetings. The Up Your Arts organization does so much to encourage the
arts in the community. They are sponsoring 30 musical acts during the 4th of
July festivities. For purposes of this evening, the Board was asked to consider
renewing their Memorandum of Understanding. The City will maintain insurance on
the building and keep utilities on in the building. The structure is accessible
for the feasibility study. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller made a motion for the
attorney to review the Memorandum of Understanding and add it to the regular
June Board meeting. Alderman Lombardi seconded the motion. Alderman Carroll
recused himself from voting. All ayes. Motion carried.
   7.
   Mayor Hatem said that at the Naturefest event, he had the opportunity to
speak to the Sea Biscuit Wildlife Rescue and Sanctuary. Other the last few
years, they have rescued almost one-thousand birds. They have a long-term plan
to move closer to the dog park. Sea Biscuit provides education and programs for
the public. The Town of Oak Island provides them with a grant of $3,000 a year.
Mary Ellen Rogers, the Director of the rescue, has asked the City for a grant
of $1,000 to help cover operating expenses. The City's Animal Protection
Services Director, Kate Marshall, confirmed that she does take injured birds
there for rehab, not to mention that Southport is a bird sanctuary. Ms.
Marshall also stated that she had considered donating and has the funds in her
budget. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller reiterated that this is a service that we all
benefit from. She motioned to approve the $1,000 grant offering to the Sea
Biscuit Wildlife Shelter. Alderman Carroll seconded the motion. All ayes.
Motion carried. Alderman Alt added that he was able to use the services when he
found an injured pelican.
   8.
   Mayor Hatem read the memo that he wrote to the Board of Aldermen about the
possibility of renaming one section of "I Am Street" to "I Am Harper Lane." Not
only will it promote history as a reference to Harper Lee, but it will honor
the Harper family for their continued contributions to the City. Mayor Hatem
proposes that the street name not officially change, but a reference sign be
added to the top like a cross-sign. He stressed that he doesn't want to lose
the historical aspect of the street name but wants to recognize the historical
generosity to the community. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller recommended not renaming
the street but adding a marker above the street sign . She motioned to give it
more thought and table the item for now. Alderman Alt seconded the motion to
table the discussion until we identify criteria for changing street names. He
added that many other families had donated time, money, and property to the
City. All ayes. Motion carried.
I.)  Committee Reports
   Alderman Allen said that the Planning Board is working very hard to review
the Indigo Plantation Phase Two project. He and Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller have
attended all of the sub-committee reviews. Alderman Allen encouraged the
citizens to submit their questions to the City staff. Mayor Hatem added that
there would be another Town Hall meeting once the Planning Board had made a
recommendation to the Board.
   Alderman Alt said that he is giddy about the 4th of July Parade.
   Alderman Davis said that the forestry committee had created a walking tour
of some of the City's most special trees. 2022 is the 18th year Southport has
been a member of Tree City, USA. The City is also one of eighty municipalities
identified as a Tree City in the state of North Carolina. One of the
requirements is having a tree protection ordinance.
   Alderman Lombardi stated that the Beautification Committee had (24)
volunteers on the last workday. They relocated rose bushes, mulched, and
planted in three different areas at their last    meeting. He said that
memorial bricks are being installed at the Garrison building. He also thanked
   everyone for applying for a volunteer position. The Board of Adjustment
interview committee will be interviewing another candidate for the vacant
position. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller said the Planning Board would meet at their
regular time next Thursday. The Parks and Recreation Committee met with Dr.
Herstine to finalize the citizen input survey. The survey will be available
from May 23rd-June 30th on the website. A hard copy can be picked up at City
Hall or the Parks and Recreation offices. There will be several community
meetings, too.
J.) Manager's Report
   Gordon Hargrove said that paving is going well. The budget is moving along.
Thanks to the staff and    the Board for all of their support.
K.) Mayor's Report
   Mayor Hatem said there is a lot of information in the City newsletter. The
Budget workshops were great; thanks to all staff and department heads for their
hard work. Mayor Hatem wished all the best    for the graduates from
kindergarten through college. He is celebrating his reunion, too.
L.) Staff Reports
   Mayor Hatem added that staff reports are in the packet for review.
M.) Board Comments
Alderman Allen had no comments. Alderman Carroll had a great time at the budget
workshops. It was good to see where the City is going. He is excited about
Southport's future. Alderman Alt also enjoyed the workshops and expressed how
much he enjoys working with staff. Alderman Davis thanked Tom Stanley for being
willing to go to all that trouble of exploring other options and appreciates
the Board for reconsidering the sweeper again. Alderman Lombardi said he was
very pleased with the budget workshops and feels the City is going in the right
direction. Thanks to all the volunteers. He said that there is always room for
other volunteers with the Beautification Committee. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller
stated that she appreciates the budget process and how much work is involved.
She announced that it was Pet Vaccination Month. Animal Protective Services is
partnering with Petco Love to provide free vaccinations at the River Road
Animal Hospital on May 14th from 9 a.m.-noon. River Road Animal Hospital has
donated 300 rabies vaccinations, and Petco Love donated 150 feline leukemia
vaccinations and 150 parvo vaccinations. In addition, APS was providing
microchips for all pets.
N.) Adjourn
   Mayor Hatem stated that it had been an excellent meeting, and many topics
were discussed.
   Alderman Alt motioned to adjourn the meeting, which Alderman Carroll
seconded. All ayes. Motion carried. Mayor Hatem adjourned the meeting at 8:36
p.m.
                     _______________________________________
                     Joseph P. Hatem, M.D., M.P.H.
                     Mayor, City of Southport
______________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
JUNE 3, 2022
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
                   BUDGET WORKSHOP
223 E. BAY STREET  JUNE 3, 2022 2:00 p.m.
COMMUNITY BUILDING SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:   Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor Pro-tem Karen Mosteller; Aldermen Lowe
Davis, Rich Alt, John Allen, Tom Lombardi, and Robert Carroll
STAFF PRESENT:
   Gordon Hargrove, City Manager
   Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
   Thomas Lloyd, Development Services Director
   Randy Jones, Tourism & Comm. Director
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
   Allayna Dail, Tourism & Comm Administrator
   Kate Marshall, Animal Protective Services
   Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
   Charles Drew, Chief Southport Fire Dept.
   Todd Coring, Chief Southport Police Dept.
   Tom Stanley, Public Services Director
A)   Call to Order
Mayor Hatem called the budget workshop to order at 2:05 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Lowe Davis gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
Mayor Hatem led everyone in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Mayor Remarks
   Mayor Hatem thanked city staff for all their hard work. He said that this
budget process has
   felt a bit rushed, and next year, the process will start earlier. He also
said that more money is involved this year, and the population is larger. Mayor
Hatem said there is no public comment at this meeting, but comments can be made
at the regular Board of Aldermen meeting on Thursday evening.
E)    Approval of Agenda
Alderman Lombardi made a motion to approve the agenda as presented. Mayor Pro-
tem Mosteller seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.
F)   Opening Comments
Mayor Hatem explained that the street sweeper had been voted on and approved.
There has been a significant amount of research on the subject, but the
intended street sweeper is to replace the one that the City has had for twenty
years.
The Mayor said that safety, health, prevention, and preparedness is important
for the public and the police officers that respond to emergencies. They have a
lot of property to cover, from the Yacht Basin to the Lowe's Foods. Historic
preservation and the maintenance of the cemeteries are so important. There is
money in the budget for cemetery maintenance. Thirty years ago, the City
created a Buildings and Grounds department that would cover the upkeep and
maintenance of the cemeteries. He added that the proposed ten-cent tax increase
is to help maintain the level of services the citizens expect. We want to
retain and recruit talent. The tax increase will help with maintenance and
preventative measures. He mentioned a few new positions: a City Engineer,
Planner, and Human Resources Director. Infrastructure is very costly but
greatly affects the quality of life for our citizens. Also, when tax rates
increase, it shows our Legislators that we are working towards accomplishing
our goals. The budget process is grueling, but it is the roadmap for the City
and the prioritized projects. Mayor Hatem turned the meeting over to City
Manager Gordon Hargrove.
G)   Department Presentations
Mr. Gordon Hargrove explained that the presented budget includes the changes as
directed by the Board. It reflects a general fund increase of 1.5%. Mr.
Hargrove read through the budget message and listed some infrastructure
projects. He said that he was open to questions from the Board.
Alderman Allen and Alderman Carroll had no questions. Alderman Alt asked if
there has been a study about the proposed Indigo Plantation Phase 2 and its
impacts on personnel. Mr. Hargrove explained the impact studies being done will
consider the proposed population. Alderman Alt said that he has a long history
of law enforcement. He said he is proud of the Southport Police Department but
has questions about whether the positions are really needed.
Alderman Allen interjected that he would reclaim some of the time he was
allotted and stated that he was not in favor of going over the street sweeper
again. The Board has voted twice to purchase the sweeper, and it is a waste of
time to review it again. Alderman Davis asked if Chief Coring could lay out the
positions and provide justification.
Police Chief Todd Coring stated that he had the justification forms ready but
was told not to provide them to the Board yet. He explained that the Police
department was running out of room at the City hall. They have to use (2)
evidence vaults at two different locations. The department has had a 70%
increase in calls received. Each call typically takes forty minutes. On
average, it takes about 6.2 minutes for an officer to respond. They aim to have
two officers on each shift, but that is not always possible.
There is an increase in police officers being more present around town,
including in the City parks. There are 13 officers altogether. We don't have
officers to fill in when someone is sick or on vacation. The citizens and the
tourists like to see the officers on bike patrol or foot. Chief Coring said
they would like to do more of that, but they have to be ready to respond to
calls. He said he realizes it is a big ask, but the positions are justified if
the Board wants more of a presence in the City. Alderman Alt asked if the
department had enough resources to cover all the events? Chief Coring said he
tries to keep some stress off the full-time officers, but sometimes the
officers are on shift alone. Chief Coring said the county has fifteen officers
per shift to cover eight districts. The officer that would respond to Southport
is coming from Bolivia. There is only one state trooper for the whole county.
Alderman Davis asked if the police records specialist would be a full-time
position, and Chief Coring confirmed it would. Alderman Lombardi asked how many
hours the officers work each week. Chief Coring said they work twelve-hour
shifts, with two days on and two days off.
   Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller said that she is practical in her approach. In her
interaction with citizens, most everyone wants officers walking around
downtown. There is also Rivermist and Southport Crossing to consider. She
understands that at current staffing levels, it would be difficult to have
coverage here in town and at Lowe's Foods, especially if the officer is on
bicycle patrol. She asked Chief Coring if three new officers would provide
enough coverage. Chief Coring said that he thinks the three additional officers
will allow a blanket to provide the safety and security we need.
Mr. Hargrove disclosed some information that was provided at an exit interview.
He learned that officer safety was the biggest concern. Two officers should
respond to domestic calls. He said there is not as much respect for law
enforcement officers as there once was. It has become a very dangerous job.
Chief Coring added that a simple interaction could turn dangerous in the blink
of an eye. He doesn't consider any calls to be routine. Mayor Hatem said that
there had been both qualitative and quantitative input. More officers provide a
higher level of comfort and stability.
Alderman Davis said that she wanted to discuss the street sweeper again. She
said it was difficult to justify the purchase of a $270,000 street sweeper
while asking for the ten-cent tax increase. She said it wasn't a good use of
money. Alderman Carroll asked Tom Stanley to explain which streets would be
swept. Mr. Stanley listed Moore Street, Rhett Street, Howe Street, Atlantic
Avenue, Nash Street, and Bay Street. He added that the proposed street sweeper
is regenerative. That means it blows air down and vacuums up, and essentially
every street in the City can be swept. Alderman Carroll mentioned that he saw
the street crew working manually to sweep the roads. He said it looked great
when they were done, but so many other tasks needed to be completed. Mayor Pro-
tem Mosteller said that the street sweeper is not only used to help manage
stormwater, it also collects pollutants from the streets, contributes to air
quality, and provides dust control. She also added that $270,000 is a lot of
money, but if you divide it by twenty years, it is more manageable. The last
street sweeper lasted twenty years. Alderman Alt said that now that he knows
the whole town can be swept using the street sweeper, he feels better about the
purchase. Alderman Davis commented that the new street sweeper might be more
efficient so that less time will be spent in operation. Alderman Carroll said
that tourists and residents benefit from the downtown streets being swept. Mr.
Hargrove mentioned all the debris discovered in the storm drains when the old
utility lines were being replaced. He added that recently he was at the dog
park with his dogs when a street sweeper drove by. He noticed how great the
streets looked afterward.
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller mentioned the rate changes for public utilities. Mr.
Stanley said that the tap fees had not increased in eight years. The collected
fee barely covers the tap's cost, not to mention the labor for installation.
The City has been losing money. He would like to stop cutting roads and
contract out for the more intensive work. He also stated that he would like to
set a tampering fee for people who turn their water back on once it has been
turned off. We need to hold people accountable for tampering. Alderman Alt
asked if the City has the capability of boring under the roads. If not, can the
City enter into a contract with a company for on-call service? City Clerk
Dorothy Dutton stated that the City has a contract with Hickman Utilities
already. The average taxpayer shouldn't have to pay for new development.
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller asked Animal Protective Services Director Kate Marshall
if her fees were changing? Ms. Marshall said that they were increasing. General
penalties across the board are $100.00, and the dangerous dog permit is
increasing to $500.00. Thomas Lloyd, Development Services Director, explained
that the System Development Fees are increasing. These fees cover the capacity
of water and sewer based on the estimated use. It is due when an application is
approved or submitted. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller added that this increase was the
last planned increase based on the adoption of the System Development Fee
program. Alderman Davis asked about tree removal permit fees. Dr. Lloyd
explained that tree removal permits are treated like zoning permits now.
Improved lots are not charged a permit fee. Alderman Alt asked if removing a
tree leaning onto another lot would warrant the $100 permit fee? Mr. Lloyd
explained that the current ordinance would require the fee and permit, which
can be amended. There is no fee required when the tree is dead or damaged.
Parks and Recreation Director Heather Hemphill reviewed proposed changes to her
fee schedule. Most of the proposed increases result from inflation and the
increase in fuel costs. Summer camp rates are increasing, gym rental fees are
increasing, and the gym is only available to movie companies.
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller asked Mr. Hargrove to explain the new system for merit
raises. Mr. Hargrove said that the performance appraisals had gone very well.
City staff is buying into the program. He will provide a list of all the staff
accomplishments at the July Board meeting. The cycle will include the 2.5%
general salary funding amount and will be distributed to staff based on
performance.
Alderman John Allen had nothing further to add. Alderman Carroll thanked City
staff. He said that this was the first time he had participated in adopting a
budget, and he enjoyed it. He believes in the City Manager and City staff.
Alderman Alt thanked the City staff and asked to start the budget process
earlier in the year next year. Alderman Davis thanked the staff and asked about
receiving a final paper copy. Alderman Lombardi thanked everyone. Mayor Pro-tem
Mosteller thanked staff for their patience and attention to the budget.
Mayor Hatem said that the budget workshop was a success. He thanked the City
staff and Mr. Hargrove. Alderman Lombardi motioned to adjourn the meeting,
which Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller seconded. All ayes. Motion carried. Mayor Hatem
adjourned the meeting at 3:43 p.m.
 
       
    
   
                     ____________________________________
                     Joseph P. Hatem, M.D., M.P.H.
                     Mayor, City of Southport
____________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
JUNE 9, 2022
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING JUNE 9, 2022
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
6:00 p.m.
Present:    Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor Pro Tem Karen Mosteller, Aldermen
Thomas Lombardi, Rich Alt, Lowe Davis, Robert Carroll, and John Allen.
Staff Present:   Gordon Hargrove, City Manager
   Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
   Norwood Blanchard, III, City Attorney
   Thomas Lloyd, Developmental Services Director
   Randy Jones, Communications/Tourism Director
   Allayna Dail, Tourism and Communications Administrator
   Heather Hemphill, Parks and Recreation Director
   Kate Marshall, Animal Control
   Todd Coring, Police Chief
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   Ralph Treadway, EMS Battalion Chief
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
   Tom Stanley, Public Services Director
   Teresa Parker, Payroll & Benefits Specialist
Others Present: Tish Hatem, Will Hewett, Pat Kirkman, Eric Maynes, Bonnie Bray,
John Keiffer, Adam Steadman, Fred Fiss, Rebecca Kelly, Renee, and Marc Spencer,
Eliot Duke with the State Port Pilot, and many other interested citizens
attended.
Meetings are now open to the public. Complete audio/video is available on the
City's website or can be requested from the City Clerk's office.
A.)
   Mayor Joseph P. Hatem called the meeting to order at 6:01 p.m. and welcomed
everyone to the meeting. He thanked everyone for attending the meeting and
watching online.
B.)
   Mayor Hatem announced Mr. Gene Tomlinson, Senior Pastor at the Point at
Southport, would provide the invocation. Mr. Tomlinson grew up in Southport and
shared some anecdotes from his youth.
C.)
   Mayor Hatem led the pledge of allegiance.
D.)   Public Comment: 
Mayor Hatem asked the City Clerk to call the individuals who signed up for
public comment. John Morrison, a resident at 513 Majesty's Court, wanted to
speak about the proposed Indigo Plantation Phase 2 project. He said that East
West Partners are reputable developers. Mr. Morrison mentioned the wetlands on
the property and the proposed open space. He can't imagine what 1500 dwellings
will look like on the property. He asked why Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller and
Alderman Allen are the only Board members that voice their opinions at the
Planning Board meeting? If the build-out is ten years, won't the roads get torn
up with that much construction traffic going back and forth?
Eric Maynes, a resident at 83 Cherry Road, spoke next. Mr. Maynes worked for
the City as a police officer. He has worked in very small rural areas, the
airport authority, and other agencies. He recently wrote an article that was
published in the State Port Pilot. He continues to have a great interest in the
community of Southport. Police Chief Coring used to be his boss. He thinks that
Chief Coring did a good job of explaining why more officers are needed. He has
been one of the officers responding to calls alone before. He explained that
the officers and their families deserve better than that.
Next to speak was Jim Gandy, a resident at 5961 Spikerush Trail at Indigo
Plantation. He said three or four entrances into the Indigo Plantation Phase 2
area had not been considered. The two entrances will cause significantly more
traffic. 11th Street has less residential development. If the proposed Indigo
Plantation Phase 2 subdivision is approved, it should be mandatory to use 11th
Street as an entrance. The UDO allows six units per acre for Planned Unit
Developments. The requested density is more than three times the allowed
density. The developers should be required to follow the UDO standards. Three
or four-story condos do not conform with the character of Southport.
Restaurants and shops should not be allowed in the marina area. It seems like
development in a larger metro area. Mr. Gandy said it is obvious that the
developer knows nothing about Southport. Mr. Gandy summarized five main points
for denying the proposed project: there is too much traffic at the two proposed
entrances, the number of proposed units fails to comply with the UDO standards,
the multifamily dwellings do not comply with the character, commercial
development does not comply with the residential area, and vehicle traffic from
580 units is too much for the City's infrastructure.
Lora Sharkey, a resident at 432 Cades Trail, spoke next. Ms. Sharkey said that
the Up Your Arts organization is wonderful. They have done so much to support
the arts. The City already has a list of buildings that it must maintain. Ms.
Sharkey encouraged the Board to examine their priorities and reevaluate them.
The City Clerk read the comments that Ms. Shirley Sullivan submitted. Ms.
Rebecca Kelly, a resident at 5971 Dutchman Creek Road, commented that the Bald
Head Island ferry system was operating in that area when she was a child. The
area was highly signaled, and there was not as much traffic.
E.)   Approval of Agenda
Alderman Allen motioned to approve the agenda as presented. Alderman Lombardi
seconded the motion.
Mayor Hatem read the Ethics Statement aloud. Alderman Carroll asked to recuse
himself from the Up Your Arts Memorandum of Understanding item.
F.)   Approval of Consent Agenda
   -Mayor Hatem explained that the Noise Ordinance Amendment and the Resolution
to Surplus Personal Property had been removed from the Consent Agenda.
   1.   Minutes of the Special Budget Workshop May 9, 2022
   2.   Minutes of the Special Budget Workshop May 10, 2022
   3.   Minutes Regular Board of Aldermen Meeting May 12, 2022
   4.   Resolution to Extend and Make Retroactive Families First Coronavirus
Response Act
   5.   Budget Amendment #3: Firemen's Funds
   6.   Resolution for Closing Capital Project Budget Ordinance-NCDOT
Improvement Plan
   7.   Resolution for Closing Capital Project Budget Ordinance-Howe Street
Sewer Replacement
   8.   Transfer Budget Amendment
Mayor Hatem gave a summary of the Consent Agenda items. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller
motioned to approve the consent agenda as presented. Alderman Lombardi
seconded. All ayes. Motion carried.
G.)  Special Recognition-
Mayor Hatem said that a Hurricane Expo had been scheduled for Tuesday, June 21,
2022. It will be wonderful to provide so much information to the public. June
is also Alzheimer's and Brain Awareness Month.
   1.   Mayor Hatem read the Proclamation in Celebration of Juneteenth
   2.   Mayor Hatem explained that recently a kayaker got caught in the Cape
Fear River and was drifting away from the Yacht Basin area. Without hesitation,
Captain Mike Villano rushed to save the man and was the first on the scene,
although the Coast Guard and Southport Water Rescue arrived. Mr. Villano
navigates former Mayor Peterson's boat back and forth from Bald Head Island and
Southport. Captain Villano is an example of how we should all respond. Mayor
Hatem read the Proclamation of Heroism.
H.)   Agenda
   1.   
   Mayor Hatem provided a brief summary of the proposed budget. The City hopes
to maintain providing excellent services to the residents of Southport. He also
added that we need competitive salaries and insurance for the employees, to
provide the right equipment to complete their work, maintain the City's
facilities, and hire an engineer to help the City complete all the proposed
projects. Mr. Gordon Hargrove reviewed the main points of the budget message.
The net operating budget is $30.5 million. The general fund is $10.6 million.
Mayor Hatem opened the public hearing at 7:00 p.m. Ms. Dutton called those who
signed up to speak. Ms. Pat Kirkman, who resides at 119 Park Avenue, addressed
the Board. She said that she likes all the Board members, and her comments are
not directed at them personally but as a reflection of their positions. She
wants to speak about the preservation and maintenance of the cemeteries. Almost
1000 bodies, the leaders and providers of the things and places we have today,
are buried there. We must not let their burial place be neglected. Many
visitors stop to see the cemeteries, which increases the amount of money spent
in the City. For the last few years, there was zero funding on a line item for
the cemeteries. This year, the line item was completely erased originally.
Mayor Hatem emailed her, explaining that the new building inspector was
enthusiastic about maintaining the cemeteries. The Board has made several
comments that historical preservation is important. She has emailed all six
Board members and only received two replies. Mayor Hatem stated at a budget
workshop that there would be a line item in the budget for the cemeteries. The
current proposed budget shows $1200 for cemetery maintenance. She said she does
not favor purchasing the street sweeper because of the cost. She provided her
email address (patkirkman@gmail.com) and welcomed others to contact her if they
wanted to discuss the cemeteries. She thanked the Board for their time and
attention.
Adam Steadman, a resident of Indigo Plantation, thanked the Board for the
opportunity to speak. He has met with the City Manager and three Aldermen
directly and appreciated the time. He is generally opposed to a ten-cent tax
increase, but most of the expenditures are worthy. He expressed some concern
about purchasing the street sweeper because the cost of everything is going up.
The initial proposal was for using the sweeper on Howe and Moore Streets. Now
that we know the sweeper can be used throughout the City, it seems to be a
better use of money. Mr. Steadman proposed waiting a year to purchase the
sweeper to see if the cost or technology changes. He also commented on the
three proposed police positions. Mr. Steadman asked if a civil patrol could be
considered to cover some of the community policing. He also recommends
beginning the budget process earlier in the year moving forward.
Marc Spencer, a resident at 701 E. Moore Street, asked if there would be an
allocation from the ABC Board for Southport Elementary? He said that there are
a lot of projects that are needed, and he appreciates everyone's hard work.
City Clerk Dorothy Dutton read public comments submitted before the meeting by
Jerry Day and Kathy Cabral. Mayor Hatem closed the public hearing at 7:25 p.m.
Mayor Hatem reiterated that money is in the budget to maintain the cemeteries.
The Buildings and Grounds department was created in part to maintain the
cemeteries. The proposed street sweeper is to replace the one that the City has
had for twenty years.
Alderman Allen said that no board member is happy about the tax increase. We
have some very real concerns in the City. A street sweeper is standard
equipment in most municipalities, and he thinks it has gotten more attention
than needed. City employees are leaving because they have so much work on them.
Alderman Carroll said he appreciates Alderman Allen's comments. He supports the
budget, the Mayor, and department heads. He was also surprised by how much
traction the street sweeper attracted.
Alderman Alt said he wants to address the comments about the police department.
He applauded Mr. Eric Maynes for coming forward during public comment. Alderman
Alt said that he looks at things differently; he considers processes and how to
make them better. The EMS department was draining the fire department fund, so
this is the first year the EMS has been a separate department. He said that the
City had spent money to look at what the City will need to do because of the
proposed Indigo Plantation Phase 2. He was questioning whether there was a
standard number of police officers based on population. The tax valuation will
be about a 30% increase, and the tax rate can be adjusted later. The City needs
money, but he doesn't think enough has been done to determine the most critical
needs.
Alderman Davis said she trusts that we will be taking care of the cemeteries.
She said she appreciates fellow Board members listening to her talk about the
street sweeper. She still doesn't agree with the purchase and cannot support
the budget for that reason.
Alderman Lombardi stated that the tax increase also affects everyone on the
Board. He has witnessed previous Boards kicking the can down the road and never
thought he would be on the Board. He said the tax increase is the right
decision, even though it is tough.
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller reiterated that the street sweeper could be used on
every road. If the community wants community policing, we need more workforce.
The Board wants to be good stewards of the environment. We need to repair our
roads and sidewalks. Erosion has crept up to the sidewalks on Bay Street. We
need a new parks and recreation facility; the existing facilities are 70 years
old. Staff has demonstrated an ongoing commitment to seeking grants and is
focused on working with the state and federal organizations to secure funding.
Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller said she supports the budget as presented for all of
these reasons.
Mayor Hatem thanked the Board for their comments. He commended the department
heads and City staff for managing the budget preparation in addition to the
ARPA grant applications and the Indigo project reviews. Mayor Hatem added that
the City hadn't raised taxes for five years, but it is necessary.
There was some discussion about paying for the street sweeper from different
funds, but ultimately, they would be coming from the same fund. Mayor Hatem
said he would entertain a motion. Alderman Allen motioned to adopt the FY 2022-
2023 budget as presented. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller seconded the motion. The
final vote was four ayes. Aldermen Alt and Alderman Davis made the two noes.
Motion carried 4 to 2. The FY 22-23 Budget was adopted.
   2.   
   Mayor Hatem asked Development Services Director Thomas Lloyd to explain the
next few items on the agenda. Mr. Lloyd said the first request is to rezone
(27) lots between W. 14th Street and W. 12th Street. They are drawn as one
parcel on the tax map, but they were never recombined legally. The lots are
part of the Southport Heights subdivision established in 1910. The applicant is
requesting a down-zoning from BD/MF to R-10 zoning. The Planning Board
recommended approval of the rezoning request. Mayor Hatem opened the public
hearing at 8:03 p.m. No comments were made, and the public hearing was closed
at 8:03 p.m. Alderman Alt asked if the rezoning would generate less density
than its current zoning designation? Mr. Lloyd stated that was correct. Someone
in the audience asked what kind of housing was being considered, and Mr. Lloyd
said there were no applications for housing yet, but he imagined it would be
cottage-style single-family dwellings. City Attorney Norwood Blanchard stepped
in to clarify that the City cannot lock the applicant into a specific use. A
rezoning is comparing one table of uses to another. Mayor Hatem reminded the
Board that the Land Use Consistency Statement must be approved along with the
map amendment. Alderman John Allen motioned to approve the statement of land
use consistency and the zoning map amendment from BD/MF to R-10 for parcel#
221MA00110. Alderman Carroll seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.
Mayor Hatem announced there would be a ten-minute break.
   3.
   The meeting resumed at 8:27 p.m. Mr. Thomas Lloyd explained the next
rezoning request was for a 0.84- acre parcel at the corner of W. 14th Street
and N. Caswell Street. There are six lots included in this parcel. The lots are
also part of the Southport Heights subdivision, and they are requesting a down-
zoning from Multifamily to R-10. The Planning Board recommends approval of the
map amendment. Mayor Hatem opened the public hearing at 8:29 p.m. There were no
public comments. The public hearing was closed at 8:29 p.m. Alderman Lombardi
motioned to approve the Statement of Land Use Consistency and the map amendment
for parcel# 221MA00101. Alderman Carroll seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion
carried. 
   4.
   Thomas Lloyd explained the next request was a little bit different. Four
lots are included in parcel# 237DC006, which is a total of 0.403 acres. This
parcel is currently zoned BD, but they are requesting to rezone it to R-10. The
R-10 designation is consistent with the surrounding area. Mayor Hatem opened
the public hearing at 8:32 p.m. There were no comments, and the hearing was
closed at 8:32 p.m. Alderman Carroll stated that he would recuse himself
because the property is listed with his real estate firm. Alderman Allen
motioned to approve the Land Use Consistency statement and the map amendment
for parcel# 237DC006. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller seconded the motion. All ayes.
Motion carried. 
   5.
   Alderman Lombardi stated that he had interviewed five candidates for the
Beautification Committee. Several of them were existing members who sought
reappointment. Alderman Lombardi motioned to reappoint Karen Pasquale, Kenneth
Geiman, Lynne Geiman, and Rob Thatcher to the Beautification Committee and
appoint Scott Bushman to the Beautification Committee. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller
seconded the motions. All ayes. Motion carried. Ms. Mosteller also said she
wants to recognize how awesome the beautification committee is. Alderman Davis
added that Southport is fortunate to have many who want to volunteer.
   6.
   The Memorandum of Understanding with Up Your Arts was next on the agenda.
Mayor Hatem asked Mr. Norwood Blanchard if he had any comments on the document.
Mr. Blanchard stated that he didn't see any issue, practically speaking. He
said he is not giving a policy opinion, but the document is open-ended and can
be terminated with (60) days' notice. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller said there had
been some questions about the genesis of this project. In February 2016, the
old City hall building was put on a list of buildings that need to be protected
and preserved. Near the same time, Up Your Arts was formed. She said this
memorandum of understanding was the next step, and she motioned to approve.
Alderman Allen seconded the motion. Alderman Alt stated that it ties to a
bigger scope of things that must be addressed. He said that as the building
sits now, it continues to rot away and collect mold. He asked that the
agreement be set for six months and then revisited. There should be clear
expectations and guidelines. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller disagreed by saying he was
describing a contract more than a memorandum of understanding. Mr. John Keiffer
with Up Your Arts addressed the Board. He said they hoped things would progress
faster than they have, but everything started when the Covid-19 pandemic was
ramping up. It was hard for them to find an engineer to do the design work. Up
Your Arts is serious about being partners with the City. They have already
invested about $20,000 on the project thus far. Mr. Keiffer said that a public
meeting would be scheduled soon and discussions about establishing a Board of
Directors. Alderman Alt asked about the investment in the City's building and
who would own the equity if the agreement fell through. Mr. Keiffer explained
that this project is at no cost to the City. He is happy to provide monthly
reports to the Board to help them stay updated on the progress. The Mayor
called for a vote to approve the memorandum of understanding with Up Your Arts.
Alderman Carroll was recused from voting. All ayes. Motion carried.
I.)  Committee Reports
Alderman Allen, Alderman Carroll, and Alderman Alt did not have anything to
report. Alderman Davis said the Forestry Committee and the Parks and Recreation
Committee had not met yet. Alderman Lombardi thanked everyone who helped with
installing the memorial bricks. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller said that the Parks and
Recreation Committee had finalized the survey for the master plan. The survey
is available on the website, at City Hall, and the Parks and Recreation office.
Community meetings are scheduled for June 14, June 15, and June 20. The
Planning Board meeting is scheduled for the following Thursday at 6:00 p.m. at
the Community Building.
Mayor Hatem reminded the Board that the Planning Board minutes, Board of
Adjustment minutes, and Forestry Committee minutes are included in their agenda
packets. Mayor Hatem also stated that he would serve as the ABC Committee
liaison. The ABC Board is excited to open the new building, which will include
between 100-200 new items.
J.)   Manager's Report
Mr. Hargrove thanked the City staff and the Board of Aldermen for the budget
preparation and time spent getting it together.
K.)   Mayor's Report
Mayor Hatem thanked the City Manager, Finance Director, City Clerks, and
Department Heads. He gave a special thanks to Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller for her
time and expertise. Mayor Hatem recognized women veterans and spouses and
Cheryl McCracken Malone. He also recognized the Daughters of 1812. He reminded
the public that the upcoming weekend is the birthday of the Dosher Memorial
Hospital. The hospital is turning 92 years old. The celebration will take place
on Saturday, June 11. There will be a cookout and a DJ. Many staff members will
be on-site to meet the public. Mayor Hatem reminded the public to have a Happy
Father's Day and that the 4th of July holiday is coming soon.
L.)   Staff Reports
   Mayor Hatem added that staff reports are in the packet for review.
M.)   Board Comments
Mayor Hatem suggested that the Board Comments be moved ahead of the Closed
Session. Alderman Allen said he wanted to address the comments from the public
comment earlier in the meeting. It was said that Alderman Allen and Mayor Pro-
tem Mosteller have undue influence on the Planning Board. They are the
liaisons. Most of the time, they never speak at the meetings. Alderman Allen
also stated there would be a rally on the upcoming Saturday to draw attention
to gun violence and call for sensible regulations in the country. Alderman
Carroll made no additional comments. Alderman Alt asked how the Hurricane Expo
was advertised and said he thinks it is a great program. Alderman Davis thanked
Ms. Pat Kirkman, and Ms. Rebecca Kelly, for still sitting in the audience
during such a long meeting. Alderman Lombardi and Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller did
not provide any additional comments.
N.)   Closed Session
Mayor Hatem accepted a motion by Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller to go into closed
session. Alderman Lombardi seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried. The
closed session began at 9:18 p.m. The Board relocated to a private room to hold
a closed session pursuant to N.C.G.S.143-318.11 (6). The closed session
adjourned at 11:00 p.m., and the Board relocated to their regular seats.
Alderman Carroll motioned to increase the City Clerk's base salary by $5,000.
Ms. Dutton will still receive the 8% COLA, and the City Manager will assign the
merit raise. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion
carried.
Alderman Carroll motioned to increase the City Manager's salary a total of 13%,
including the 8% COLA and a 5% merit raise. Mr. Hargrove's contract is extended
for three years, and the City-residency requirement is removed. Alderman Allen
seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.
Mayor Hatem said that all City employees are valued, but the Board hires these
two positions. He thanked the Board and staff for their time during the long
meeting.
O.)   Adjourn
   Alderman Allen motioned to adjourn the meeting, which Alderman Carroll
seconded. All ayes. Motion carried. Mayor Hatem adjourned the meeting at 11:04
p.m.
                     _______________________________________
                     Joseph P. Hatem, M.D., M.P.H.
                     Mayor, City of Southport
______________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
JULY 14, 2022
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING JULY 14, 2022
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
6:00 p.m.
Present:    Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor Pro Tem Karen Mosteller, Aldermen
Thomas Lombardi, Rich Alt, Lowe Davis, Robert Carroll, and John Allen.
Staff Present:   Gordon Hargrove, City Manager
   Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
   Norwood Blanchard, III, City Attorney
   Thomas Lloyd, Developmental Services Director
   Randy Jones, Communications/Tourism Director
   Allayna Dail, Assistant Director of Tourism and Community Building Manager
   ChyAnn Ketchum, Communications and Public Information Officer
   Heather Hemphill, Parks and Recreation Director
   Kate Marshall, Animal Control
   Todd Coring, Police Chief
   Tony Burke, Police Major
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   Ralph Treadway, EMS Battalion Chief
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
   Tom Stanley, Public Services Director
   Teresa Jones, Tax Collector/Finance Specialist
Others Present: Tish Hatem, Will Hewett, Adam Steadman, Fred Fiss, Rebecca
Kelly, Renee Spencer, Eliot Duke with the State Port Pilot, Shirley Sullivan,
Todd and Sarah Dunn, and many other interested citizens attended.
Meetings are now open to the public. Complete audio/video is available on the
City's website or can be requested from the City Clerk's office.
A.)
   Mayor Joseph P. Hatem called the meeting to order at 6:05 p.m. and welcomed
everyone to the meeting. He thanked everyone for attending the meeting and
watching online.
B.)
   Alderman Lowe Davis provided the invocation.
C.)
   Mayor Hatem led the pledge of allegiance.
After everyone sat down, Mayor Hatem said that the recent 4th of July Festival
was one of the most successful festivals in years. Freedom was proclaimed in
Southport. He thanked all City staff, department heads, Tish Hatem, the Ladies
Club, all the volunteers, and the Chamber of Commerce. He reviewed the items on
the agenda. Alderman Davis asked the Mayor to form an ad hoc committee to
review the creation of a historic preservation commission. Mayor Hatem
announced that Aldermen Lowe Davis, Robert Carroll, and Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller
would serve on the committee. He also added that City Clerk Dorothy Dutton and
the next City Planner would serve on the committee. He thanked Alderman Davis
for her suggestion and asked the City Clerk to begin calling the public for
comments.
D.)   Public Comment: 
The City Clerk first called Randy Jones, Public Relations Director, for public
comment. He thanked the City. He said that there were approximately 40,000
people in attendance. The Police Department made everyone feel safe and
protected. The Fire Department's Firemen's Competition was much bigger than it
had been years prior. The first responder vehicles at the waterfront were a big
hit. Thank you to Battalion Chief Ralph Treadway for organizing the mobile 9/11
Memorial exhibit. He also thanked the City Clerk, Heather Hemphill, and Kate
Marshal. Public Services were amazing. He also thanked the volunteers, Mayor
Hatem and Tish Hatem, for being at every event. He closed by saying the city
bleeds red, white, and blue.
Dr. Marty Younts, a 285 Lord Thomas Avenue resident, spoke next. She said she
and her family had owned property in Southport for twenty years. There has been
a lot of change over the years. The character of Southport has been small,
quaint, friendly, and relaxed. "Southport Time" is not measured with a clock.
She said that no one could deny that many homes will be built as Indigo
Plantation Phase 2, but she said that the character of Southport will
completely change if the Board allows the 1100 residences to be built. She
asked the Board to please not let too much change happen to our corner of
paradise.
Mr. Carl Parker, President of the Brunswick County NAACP, spoke next. He
explained that after the last meeting, he was left with the expectation that
something would happen to make things better. He hasn't heard of any
correspondence that would make things better. Mr. Parker told an anecdote about
a parakeet, a man, and his wife. He asked the Manager to remember the meeting.
Mr.Parker said he expects that the City will not fill Teresa Parker's position
with anyone who is not of color. He said when injustice shows its head, we must
ensure it doesn't continue. He is the representative of the National
Association of the Advancement of Colored People, and he is grateful because he
doesn't have to discriminate against anyone.
Brian Stevens, a resident at 503 Cades Trail, said that he is lucky enough to
live in one of Southport's premier communities. He is concerned about the
proximity of the proposed Indigo Phase 2. It was mentioned by Mr. Chad Paul
that there would be an (80) foot buffer. He recommends a larger buffer or a
conservation easement. The development will forever change Southport. He asked
the Board to look back before looking forward. The shoebox housing at the Yacht
Basin is out of character, the house at the end of Atlantic Avenue that blocks
the view, and the proposed building at 115 N. Howe Street.
Shirley Sullivan, a resident at 5002 Seaward Court, said that good
communication is key. Community engagement gives the public a voice and
connects leaders with citizens. Communication should not be one way. Public
comment is important; why not allow comments at a review committee meeting? She
also said that she had been reviewing several documents online, and several of
them are misleading, misdated, etc. She said the maps for Indigo Phase 2 were
poorly circulated. She said if Southport doesn't annex the property, the County
will allow the development. The City is out-pricing our seniors. She said that
the residents believe in the City, core values, and mission. Sometimes people
need to be silent and listen. Mayor Hatem reiterated that there is still plenty
of opportunity for public comment on the Indigo Phase 2 project.
Bob Lambert, who resides at 109 W. Nash Street, expressed concern about the
proposed 3-story building at 115 N. Howe Street. The plan calls for the
demolition of the existing building. There will be retail, apartments, offices,
a restaurant, and a rooftop bar. He suggested the occupancy would be very high.
There are currently no other commercial structures in Southport that are over
two stories. The proposed occupancy would equal about 20% of the city's current
population. Based on the current parking requirements, (150) parking spaces
would be required to cover the restaurant and bar, not including the
apartments' residents or staff. In his opinion, the proposal takes no account
of the citizens of Southport. We must act together to ask the property owners
to make changes to preserve the neighborhood.
Tracy Beaulieu, a resident of 206 W. Nash Street, stated that the proposed 3-
story project is only (8) houses away from hers. The proposed building is not
in character with other structures in Southport. It will be a detriment to the
City and the neighboring residential area. She supposed the customers of the
building would park in the residential areas, but they don't need to be filled
all the time. Ms. Beaulieu also has concerns about a grease pit being
installed. The people who are proposing the project are locals to Southport.
She said she would think they would have more pride in their community. She
hopes the Boards can consider the public's opinion on this project and the
proposed Indigo Phase 2.
Rebecca Kelly, a resident at 5971 Dutchman Creek Road, said that when she was a
child living in Indigo Phase 1, there were increments of time when they were
not allowed to ride on their bikes because of the ferry traffic. But the
proposed Indigo Phase 2 will generate an abundance of traffic all day long. Ms.
Kelly said Chad Paul mentioned that annexation would not be used as leverage to
approve the proposed project. But he also said he would hate to have the
development without Southport reaping the benefit. She also stated that she
knows Rhetson Companies are applying for rezoning at the corner of 14th and
Howe Streets. Rezoning the property to Highway Commercial could hugely impact
that area, and it is the gateway to the City.
Adam Steadman, a resident at 5968 Dutchman Creek, said that he is a strong
supporter of the proposed lighting ordinance change and he is a supporter of
property rights. He believes the amendment will go a long way in allowing the
public to enjoy their property. Filtered lighting would be of similar cost and
nature to non-filtered light. Mr. Steadman also said that concerning the budget
process last month, it is important to prioritize the road systems and work on
water and sewer. We should ensure that the tax revaluation creates neutrality.
Pastor Brian Monroe, a resident at 715 Clarendon Avenue, said he attended the
meeting to support and congratulate Teresa Parker and to air some grievances.
He said the City had left some unfinished business with the former police chief
that needs to be handled, but not with plea deals. There is a history of
mistreating African Americans in Southport and Brunswick County. He added that
when people are mistreated, there is no way to all get along.
Ms. Dutton read the progress report from Up Your Arts. Mayor Hatem said that
public comment is so important and allows unlimited public comment. Thanks to
all who spoke.
Mayor Hatem read the ethics statement. Alderman Carroll stated he had a
conflict with the parking text amendment listed as H.5. on the agenda. Alderman
Carroll is the real estate agent for the applicant.
E.)   Approval of Agenda
Mayor Hatem stated there was a request to add an item to the agenda as item H.
10. Board of Aldermen requested the Planning Board review the Central Business
District standards. Alderman Davis said she would like to readdress the City
Manager's salary and add it to the agenda as item H. 11. Alderman Carroll
motioned to approve the agenda with the two additions. Alderman Alt seconded
the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.
F.)   Approval of Consent Agenda-Mayor Hatem summarized the items on the
Consent Agenda.
   1.   Minutes of the Special Budget Workshop Minutes June 3, 2022
   2.   Minutes of the Regular Board of Aldermen Meeting June 9, 2022
   3.   Minutes Board of Aldermen Closed Session June 9, 2022
   4.   Resolution Amending the Personnel Policy Article 4. Section 3.
   5.   Resolution in Support of Accepting NCDEQ Funds.
Alderman Lombardi made a motion to approve the Consent Agenda as presented.
Alderman Carroll seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.
G.)   Special Recognition
   1.   Mayor Hatem said he was glad he wore his red shirt to the meeting so
that he would match the others representing the UNITY group in support of
Teresa Parker. He asked Ms. Parker to come to the podium. He read the
proclamation thanking Ms. Parker for her (27) years of service to the City. Ms.
Parker thanked everyone and said she was overwhelmed with gratitude. She added
that the last few days working for the City were difficult because she felt
forced out. She enjoyed working with the other City employees and said that the
City employees are so hard working. She said to let her know if she could ever
help any City staff.
   2.   Mayor Hatem asked Ms. Heather Hemphill and the Parks and Recreation to
come to the front. He read the Proclamation Designating July as National Parks
and Recreation Month.
   3.   Mr. Randy Jones, Public Relations Director, introduced Ms. ChyAnn
Ketchum, the City's new Public Information Officer and Communications
Administrator. Ms. Ketchum addressed the Board. She said she was happy to be
with the City and looked forward to working with everyone.
H.)   Agenda
   1.   Thomas Lloyd, Development Services Director, explained the first
request for contiguous annexation. The property is located at 1224 N. Caswell
Avenue. It is for (6) contiguous parcels totaling .84-acres. The City Clerk has
investigated the sufficiency of the request and found it to be sufficient.
After a motion by Alderman Carroll and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller, the
Board accepted the petition for annexation, accepted the Clerk's Certification,
and adopted the Resolution to set the public hearing for August 11, 2022. All
ayes. Motion carried.
   2.   Thomas Lloyd described the second request for non-contiguous
annexation. This request is for the first phase of Osprey Landing. The parcel
is a 25.59-acre tract, and the annexation is required as part of the
development agreement that the City and the Developer approved. The City Clerk
has investigated the sufficiency of the request and found it to be sufficient.
Alderman Lombardi motioned to accept the petition, accept the Clerk's
certification, and adopt a Resolution setting the public hearing for August 11,
2022. Alderman Davis seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried. 
   3.   Mr. Lloyd explained the final annexation was for 8.35 acres identified
as Osprey Landing Phase 2. This request is for contiguous annexation and is
also required as part of the development agreement. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller
motioned to accept the petition, accept the Clerk's Certificate of Sufficiency,
and adopt the Resolution setting the public hearing for August 11, 2022.
Alderman Lombardi seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried. Alderman Davis
wanted to state that annexations have to be voluntary for the public's benefit.
The City cannot force annexations.
   4.   Mayor Hatem asked Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller to explain the next item
regarding an ordinance amendment for exterior lighting. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller
explained that the Street Light Policy was updated, but the Code of Ordinances
should be amended to coincide with that. Typically, code of ordinance
amendments are not sent to the Planning Board for review but since lighting is
an important part of the design elements in a community, she recommends the
draft ordinance be sent to the Planning Board for review. The proposed changes
include recommended light fixtures that would shield the light to protect the
night sky. The amendment does not allow flashing lights or fixtures that cause
light trespass onto adjacent properties. Holiday lights are exempt. Lighting
installed after the adoption of the ordinance would have to be in compliance.
Alderman Alt said a huge part of the population has existing lights that are
non-compliant. The non-compliant lights would be allowed until they needed to
be replaced, and then compliant replacement fixtures would be required.
Alderman Alt encourages having a public meeting.Alderman Allen clarified that
the ordinance should go to the Planning Board first and then host the public
meetings. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller motioned to move the proposed amendment to
the Planning Board. Alderman Carroll seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   5.   Thomas Lloyd explained the proposed text amendment. Approximately (10)
parcels in the Central Business District are smaller than the district
requires. These lots will have trouble meeting the parking requirement. This
text amendment proposes to exempt lots under 4000 square feet from the parking
requirement, but only lots that were platted before 1973. Mr. Ron Thompson
requested the text amendment. Mayor Hatem opened the public hearing at 7:54
p.m. Mr. Ron Thompson addressed the Board. He said he initially wanted to build
on the property, but his wife convinced him to sell the parcel. In its current
state, the parking requirement could not be met. He met with the Planning Board
and worked out some of their concerns. He added that several other properties
in the area do not meet the parking requirement. Mr. Thompson said there are no
parking issues in his property area. He just wants to be treated fairly, like
others in the area. Alderman Davis asked Thomas Lloyd how many parcels would be
affected by the text amendment. Thomas Lloyd said that when first starting, the
text amendment included about ten parcels, but the Planning Board whittled it
down so that only two parcels qualify for the exemption. Mayor Hatem closed the
public hearing at 8:01 p.m. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller stated the table of
permitted uses included 40 to 50 uses that could be built on these properties,
all with potentially differing impacts. The conditional rezoning process
requires more specificity. She feels that a text amendment wasn't the right
process for this request. The two affected lots are both on the same block.
Theoretically, the proposed text amendment would allow the two parcels to build
40-foot buildings, property line to property line with only a 10-foot rear
setback. The conditional rezoning process is intended to provide applicants a
public process to address things like parking relief with design and use
details. The conditional rezoning application would include the identification
of potential uses and elevation drawings. Alderman Alt stated that the proposed
process would require more paperwork than the Indigo Plantation Phase 2
project. Mr. Lloyd said that it is the same process as Indigo. Mr. Thompson
thinks the project is very simple; he has a 33-foot lot. Alderman Allen said
that he reluctantly agrees with Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller. He apologized to Mr.
Thompson. There are proposed projects that are having damaging effects on the
City. Alderman Davis made a motion to approve the text amendment as proposed.
Alderman Alt seconded the motion. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller said she is concerned
that people will request changes incrementally for relief. Alderman Allen said
that it would likely be a slippery slope. Alderman Davis said that only one
additional lot would qualify for the exemption. Alderman Alt said that the
Planning Board had already directed Thomas Lloyd to move forward with the
amendment and reduce the requirement. Mr. Thompson said that he had exhausted
every avenue with the City. He believes the next step would be to take the
request to the Board of Adjustment. He just wants to utilize the property. Mr.
Lloyd reiterated that the process is legislative, not quasi-judicial. Mayor
Hatem called the request to a vote. Alderman Davis motioned to approve the text
amendment, and Alderman Alt seconded the request. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller,
Alderman Allen, and Alderman Lombardi voted no. The motion was denied. Mayor
Pro-tem Mosteller asked staff to inform Mr. Thompson with the options fully.
   6.   Mr. Ellie Pettinger, Electrical Superintendent, introduced Ms. Debra
Fish with Brunswick Electric Membership Corporation. Ms. Fish said there were
only minor changes to the contract. They update the service fees yearly based
on the Consumer Price Index. The City's customers are important to BEMC. They
want to provide safe, affordable services and support economic development. Ms.
Fish explained the increase of 6.7% based on the formula between CPI and the
number of new customers. There was some discussion about solar meters. Alderman
Davis motioned to approve the proposed contract with Brunswick Electric
Membership Corporation. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller seconded the motion. All ayes.
Motion carried.
   7.   City Manager Gordon Hargrove read the memo the City Clerk had prepared
about selecting an engineering firm to complete the shoreline stabilization
project. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller said she was very familiar with Olsen
Engineering because they helped design the 2019 plan. Alderman Allen motioned
to approve the selection of Olsen Engineering to complete the shoreline
stabilization project. Alderman Carroll seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   8.   The next item was the discussion and appointment of the Planning Board
position. Alderman Carroll said he would like to table the selection until all
of the reviews for Indigo and 115 N. Howe Street are completed. Alderman Allen
seconded the motion. Mayor Hatem said that the current member, Will Hewett,
will continue to serve in the interim. Alderman Davis said this was no
reflection of the applicants; it would be difficult to change course mid-review
season. All ayes, Motion carried. Mayor Pro-tem said she wanted to clarify the
interview committee selection. Should there be a new interview committee for
each position that becomes vacant? Alderman Carroll said it is strange that the
language for the Planning Board and Board of Adjustment is different, including
having one Alderman liaison. City Attorney Norwood Blanchard said that the
Board has unfettered discretion for interviews.
   9.   Mayor Hatem announced that Mr. Todd Dunn would speak about the ABC
Board appointment. Mr. Dunn stated that he had been the store manager for eight
years. The recent 4th of July weekend was their busiest on record ever. 5% of
store profits go back to the local Police Department, and 5% goes back into
rehabilitation facilities. Sales have increased every year. The City has had
one Board member for the last eight years. Mr. Todd Dunn said that they
conducted interviews, and the Board is making the recommendation to reappoint
Mr. William Davis to the Board. The state mandates the local ABC Board, but
members are appointed by the Board of Aldermen. Mr. Davis has helped lead the
ABC Board and personnel through many changes, including the pandemic and the
construction of the new ABC store. He takes time to get to know the employees
and is a long-time resident of Southport. Alderman Carroll thinks there is
great value in bringing a new perspective to the Board. He would like to look
at it closer and better understand the bylaws and regulations before making a
decision.  Alderman Davis asked if the ABC Board could be expanded to five
members. Mr. Blanchard said that membership could be expanded to five members
at the Board of Aldermen's request. Alderman Carroll motioned to table the
appointment until there was more understanding. Alderman Alt seconded the
motion. There were four ayes. Alderman Lombardi and Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller
were opposed to tabling the appointment. Motion carried. Alderman Carroll
motioned to request expanding the ABC Board to five members. Alderman Alt
seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried. Ms. Dutton said she would
research more about expanding membership and report back to the Board of
Aldermen.
   10.   Alderman Davis made a motion directing the Planning Board to form a
review committee to focus on the Central Business District. This would include
setbacks, height, uses, and other standards as needed. Mayor Pro-tem seconded
the motion. All ayes. Motion carried. Mayor Hatem reiterated the UDO is a
living document and is subject to change when deficiencies are identified.
   11.   Earlier in the meeting, Alderman Davis requested to add an item to the
agenda to revisit the Manager's salary. She commented that the Board was basing
the proposed salary at the June meeting on misinformation. She made a motion to
set the Manager's salary at $127,125. Alderman Alt seconded the motion.
Alderman Carroll said he wanted to go on record stating that the subject should
be handled in a closed session. He made a motion to go into a Closed Session.
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller seconded the motion. All ayes except for Alderman
Davis. Motion carried. Mayor Hatem closed the regular open meeting at 9:29 p.m.
to enter a closed session. The closed session was dismissed at 9:41 p.m., and
the regular open meeting resumed. In the open session, Alderman Davis
motioned to increase Mr. Hargrove's salary to $127,125. Alderman Alt seconded
the motion. Aldermen Carroll, Alt, Lombardi, and Davis voted in favor. Alderman
Allen and Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller voted opposed. Motion carried 4-2. Mr.
Hargrove's salary was increased to $127,125 a year. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller
added that this discussion was not a reflection of the Manager’s performance.
I.)   Committee Reports
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller stated that the Planning Board Review Committee meeting
was scheduled to discuss the proposed project at 115 N. Howe Street. The Parks
and Recreation Committee has its survey available through July 31, 2022. The
City was selected to pursue a CAMA Land Use Grant for the kayak launch.
Alderman Lombardi said the Beautification Committee has been working to refresh
the planters around the City.
Alderman Davis announced that the Forestry Committee's tree walking tour was
hugely successful. So successful, they have ordered more pamphlets.
Alderman Alt had nothing to report.
Alderman Carroll thanked everyone for attending and participating in the 4th of
July festival.
Alderman Allen thanked Randy Jones, Gordon Hargrove, Chief Drew, Chief Coring,
and Tom Stanley for all the festival work.
J.)   Manager's Report
City Manager Gordon Hargrove thanked all City staff for their hard work during
the festival.
K.)   Mayor's Comments
Mayor Hatem stated that the kayak launch was definitely going to happen. On
Saturday, there was a UNITY event with crafts, a waterslide, and a kickball
game. He looks forward to it next year. A special joint workshop is scheduled
for Monday, July 18, 2022 to hear summaries on the impact analysis studies
conducted for the proposed Indigo Phase 2 project.  
L.)   Staff Reports
Mayor Hatem added that staff reports are in the packet for review.
M.)   Board Comments
Alderman Carroll wanted to reiterate that the Board appointment items were not
personal. He looks at all the applications and resumes. He wants to learn more
about what each Board does so that he can make wise decisions. He appreciates
everyone's support. He is always available by email and telephone.
Alderman Alt asked Chief Drew if they responded to more calls than usual during
this 4th of July festival. Chief Drew said that it was about average. As a
whole, the number of calls has been
increasing.
Alderman Davis said she had no issue with Mr. Davis continuing on the ABC
Board; her objection is how things have been operated. There are barely any
minutes for the meetings. She thinks that increasing the membership to five
will allow Mr. Davis to continue serving and appoint some new members.
Alderman Lombardi had nothing to report.
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller commented that the pressure of growth will define
Southport unless we define who we are. She mentioned the sign at the entrance
area to Southport. It welcomes everyone to "Historic Southport."
N.)   Adjourn
Mayor Hatem stated that the meeting on Monday would help move the City of
Southport forward. He thanked everyone for attending and watching at home.
After a motion made by Alderman Carroll and seconded by Alderman Allen, Mayor
Hatem adjourned the meeting at 10:00 p.m. All ayes. Motion carried.
                     _______________________________________
                     Joseph P. Hatem, M.D., M.P.H.
                     Mayor, City of Southport
______________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
JULY 18, 2022
SPECIAL JOINT MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN PLANNING BOARD SPECIAL JOINT MEETING MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING               JULY 18, 2022
223 E. BAY STREET                SOUTHPORT, NC
BOARD OF ALDERMEN PRESENT: Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor Pro-tem Karen
Mosteller; Aldermen Lowe Davis, Tom Lombardi, Robert Carroll, and Rich Alt.
Alderman Allen was out of town.
PLANNING BOARD PRESENT: Chair Sue Hodgin, Will Hewitt, Gustavo Mibelli, Maureen
Meehan, Scott Jones, Christopher Jones, Fred Fiss, Dick Sloan
STAFF PRESENT:
Gordon Hargrove, City Manager         Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
Randy Jones, Tourism & Comm.         Allayna Dail, Asst. Dir. Tourism & Comm.
Bldg.
Thomas Lloyd, Development Serv. Director   Todd Coring, Chief of Police
ChyAnn Ketchum, PIO/Communications      Kate Marshall, Animal Protective
Services
Charles Drew, Fire Chief            Ralph Treadway, Battalion Chief
ALSO IN ATTENDANCE:
Chad Paul, CEO Bald Head Island Ltd.      Tish Hatem    
Roger Perry, President, East West Partners   Shirley Sullivan
McKay Siegel, Partner, East West Partners   Rebecca Kelly
Frank Popelars & Wife            Eliot Duke, Reporter with State Port Pilot
Many other concerned citizens
A)   Call to Order
   Mayor Hatem called the special joint meeting to order at 6:08 p.m. He
welcomed the Board of Aldermen, Planning Board, the Developers, and the Public.
B)   Invocation
   Alderman Lowe Davis gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
    Mayor Hatem led everyone in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Approval of Agenda
Alderman Davis made a motion to allow the public to ask questions. Mayor Hatem
stated that Alderman Davis should’ve made the request sooner. He said that
there was a motion to add item G. to the meeting for Public Questions. Mayor
Pro-tem Mosteller made a motion to add an item for public question and move
adjourn down to item H. Alderman Lombardi seconded. Motion carried.
   Planning Board member Will Hewett made a motion to approve the amended
agenda, which was seconded by Maureen Meehan. All ayes. Motion carried.
E)   Agenda
   1.   Lucy Gallo, a Principal with Development, Planning, Financial Group,
LLC presented the findings from the fiscal impact analysis. She said the key
fiscal assumptions are based on a snapshot in time, and consider the net impact
to the general fund, excluding the enterprise fund. She explained that the
expected needs for each department vary. The Fire District already covers this
project area, so it is not expected to need more equipment or substations. But
other departments will be affected differently. Ms. Gallo studied the fiscal
impacts based on two scenarios. The first scenario considered the Indigo
Plantation Phase 2 property annexed into the City limits. Based on
calculations, there seemed to be a $1.4 million net fiscal benefit, which will
help offset the City’s fixed capital.
Scenario 2 was based on the property not being annexed. This would create a
negative fiscal effect because approximately 550 homes would be added to the
fire district without the benefit of tax revenue to offset the expense. In
addition, those individuals would still be using the City’s infrastructure.
   2.   Eddie Staley, Shannon Moore, and another staff member from Withers-
Ravenel presented the findings of their impact analysis. Mr. Staley said the
project objectives was to review the developer’s schedule for new
infrastructure, review the most influential revenues and expenditures, and to
provide a 10-year financial analysis of infrastructure needs. Ms. Moore
explained that they did not increase the tax rate or revaluations in the
analysis. They did consider sales tax increases, ABC Revenues, Fire District
fees, and the utility franchise. The total additional expense base was
estimated at $1,796,000, including $200,000 for paving inside the proposed
project area. The 10-year cumulative revenue surplus is estimated at $15.5
million, but it starts to level off after the seventh year. Mr. Staley
explained that the location of this project make it more favorable to the City.
The project is already inside the fire district. There would be no water and
sewer, or stormwater expense to the City.
Mayor Hatem said that the City’s Police Department already needs more room. The
revenue from the project, if approved, could help fund that building. Mayor
Pro-tem Mosteller asked if there were any markers for understanding the long-
term benefits of annexation? Mr. Staley said that generally speaking, annexing
property, and gaining the tax revenue is one of the biggest benefits. But it
also depends on the level of services provided, revaluations, and tax rates.
F.)
    Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller asked if the density was cut in half, could an
assumption be made that the revenue would also be cut in half. Ms. Moore said
there were too many factors to make that assumption. Alderman Davis asked if
the City has to maintain the roads if they do not annex. Thomas Lloyd said
there is no obligation to maintain the roads if they do not annex.
Fred Fiss, Planning Board member, asked about the electrical infrastructure,
and Mr. Staley said that they never include electrical components because they
do not have expertise in that area. Planning Board member Chris Jones asked
Withers-Ravenel about how many reports like this they do each year, and if they
ever look at projects after build-out to see how accurate the reports are. Mr.
Staley said there is a certain amount of sensitivity that comes into play with
these analyses. There are so many variables. This particular analysis allowed
70% sensitivity, so there is a lot that could happen, but it would still be of
benefit to the City. There is no guarantee that this project would be
financially beneficial to the City, but there is confidence in the model.
Planning Board member Gustavo Mibelli said that the consultants were asked to
compare apples to oranges. He suggested comparing the same number of units with
annexation and without. He thinks there will be a short-term benefit to the
City, but after several years, the benefit will diminish. The reality of the
project is that it is not consistent with the Land Use Plan.
Sue Hodgin, Planning Board Chair, said that the Board’s should look past the
money. The tax base should not push them into approving the project.
Alderman Lombardi asked if the developers are only approved for 550 units,
would they still annex into the City. Lucy Gallo said that it wasn’t
financially feasible for the developers to annex at that density.
G.) Public Comment
Rebecca Kelly, resident of Indigo Plantation, asked for clarification about the
$200,000 for paving roads. That amount ifs just for the roads inside the Indigo
Plantation Phase 2. She also added that a portion of the land area included is
already in the City limits. Regardless of whether the developers annex, we
would still get tax revenue on that portion.
David Roach said he wondered what the impacts would be on the quality of life
in the City. He also asked if the developers had actually placed the proposed
number of homes on the property to see if they would fit.
Shirley Sullivan asked when the analyses would be available to the public and
when the Planning Board would be making their recommendation.
There were questions about the electrical grid impacts and who would be paying
for those improvements. Gordon Hargrove stated that there have been discussions
with the City Attorney and an electrical systems expert. The developer will
likely have to help pay for the improvements, but we don’t know the cost at
this time.
Jim Lightbourne, a resident at 116 W. West Street, said that these studies
didn’t show as much as an annexation study would have shown. Mr. Staley said
that wasn’t what they were tasked to do. If they go through the scenarios and
there were all red flags, everyone could stop talking about the project today.
But when there are some green and some red, they have to keep looking. He added
that the consultants were not asked to review Land Use Consistency, only fiscal
and infrastructure impacts.
Another citizen asked where NCDOT was during the review. He was particularly
concerned about what would happen considering that traffic already gets backed
up on 9th Street and Robert Ruark.
Shirley Sullivan said that a growth rate of 2% was included in these studies,
but Brunswick County is growing at 4%. There are a lot more trips generated
with that percentage.
Mr. Chad Paul said that he believes Bald Head Island Ltd is the largest tax
payer in the City. The proposed 1542 dwelling units will fit on the property.
He concluded by saying that they are paying more than there share of the
project reviews.
H.)   Adjourn
Mayor Hatem said he appreciated the meeting because everyone in attendance
cares about Southport. He appreciates everyone in attendance and all of the
consultant’s work. Alderman Lombardi made a motion to adjourn, which was
seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller. All ayes.
Gustavo Mibelli made a motion to adjourn the Planning Board meeting. Will
Hewett seconded the motion. All ayes. The meeting was adjourned at 8:28 p.m.
                     _____________________________________
                     Joseph P. Hatem, M.D., M.P.H.
                     Mayor, City of Southport
__________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
AUGUST 9, 2022
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING AUGUST 9, 2022
223 E. BAY STREET  SOUTHPORT, N.C.
6:00 p.m.
Present:    Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor Pro Tem Karen Mosteller, Aldermen
Thomas Lombardi, Rich Alt, Lowe Davis, Robert Carroll, and John Allen.
Staff Present:   Gordon Hargrove, City Manager
   Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
   Norwood Blanchard, III, City Attorney
   Randy Jones, Communications/Tourism Director
   Allayna Dail, Assistant Director of Tourism and Community Building Manager
   ChyAnn Ketchum, Communications and Public Information Officer
   Heather Hemphill, Parks and Recreation Director
   Kate Marshall, Animal Control
   Todd Coring, Police Chief
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   Ralph Treadway, EMS Battalion Chief
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
   Tom Stanley, Public Services Director
   Wes McLeod, Cape Fear Council of Governments
Others Present: Tish Hatem, Will Hewett, Sue Hodgin, Fred Fiss, Rebecca Kelly,
Renee Spencer, Eliot Duke with the State Port Pilot, Teresa Parker, and many
other interested citizens attended.
Meetings are now open to the public. Complete audio/video is available on the
City's website or can be requested from the City Clerk's office.
A.)
   Mayor Joseph P. Hatem called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m. and welcomed
everyone to the meeting. He thanked everyone for attending the meeting and
watching online.
B.)
Alderman Lowe Davis provided the invocation.
C.)
Mayor Hatem led the pledge of allegiance.
D.)   Public Comment: 
The City Clerk first called Jon McMath, a resident at 1005 Bonner Bussell's
Drive. He said that he has lived in Southport for seven years. He stated that
the Planning Board did a thorough job with their Indigo Phase 2 review. Their
findings must be kept a top priority as the City moves forward. He asked why
the Board of Aldermen was allowed to hold a closed session to discuss the
development agreement. He suggested that the Board met with the developers in a
closed session. Mayor Hatem interrupted him and stated that the closed meeting
was for the Board to meet with their attorney regarding a possible development
agreement. City Attorney Norwood Blanchard added that this was common practice
and a good idea. Mr. McMath said that that information answered his questions,
and he had nothing further to add.
Teresa Parker, a resident at 510 Clarendon Avenue and former City employee,
stated that on July 13th, 2022, she submitted an information request form
requesting salary information. It states on the form that the requested
information will be available for inspection or pick-up within five business
days or less. By her calculations, the requested information should have been
available on July 27th. The City Clerk Dorothy Dutton sent information to her
that afternoon, but it wasn't what she expected. She asked how long it takes to
get an information request fulfilled. Mr. Blanchard stated that payroll is not
one of the items that can be provided under the general statute. There was more
discussion between Mrs. Parker and Mr. Blanchard, and Mrs. Parker took her
seat.
Francesca Slaughter, a 6243 Cottage Creek Road resident, said she had been a
resident at Indigo Plantation for sixteen years. She stated that she knows
growth is inevitable but should be monitored. She was relieved to see that Bald
Head Island Ltd. and East West Partners were the developers of the proposed
development because they are the most qualified to build nice areas with
conservation. The amount of density proposed does not seem suitable for this
area. The traffic at the school is at a standstill a couple of times a day.
Tracy Beaulieu, a 206 W. Nash Street resident, approached the podium next. She
thanked the Planning Board for all the work reviewing the proposed Indigo Phase
2 project. She doesn't live in Indigo but thinks another 3,000 people using the
stores, prescription shops, and parking areas would be too much. She suggested
that the Board consider infrastructure for the people who already reside in
Southport. She also added that the proposed project at 115 N. Howe Street would
create a nightmare for those who live on Nash Street. She is concerned about
the cars that would park in the residential area and the amount of trash that
could be generated. She said she isn't opposed to redevelopment of the space
and building but thinks any project of that scale is a mistake.
Pat Kirkman, a resident of 119 Park Avenue, thanked Tom Stanley and his staff
for the work they completed at the cemetery. The Board allocated funding to
cover the (4) seasonal part-time positions and requested proposals from
landscaping companies to maintain the cemeteries but have received no
submissions. Mrs. Kirkman thanked the Mayor for creating an ad hoc committee to
focus on Historic Preservation. Mrs. Kirkman added more comments regarding the
upkeep of the cemeteries. Mayor Hatem said that her comments were appreciated.
Donnie Joyner, a resident of 635 Jabbertown Road, asked what happened to the
Southport that he once knew. The Board of Aldermen is supposed to be a non-
partisan board, but he sometimes has doubts. He said that the public and the
Board of Aldermen do not always show respect or old-fashioned courtesy towards
each other. Being an Alderman comes with a lot of responsibility. He also added
that Mr. William Davis has a long history of public service, including military
service, being active in his church, and positive history with the ABC Board.
Mr. Joyner added that Mr. Davis should be reappointed to the ABC Board.
Alderman Carroll addressed his comment from the July meeting, explaining that
he meant bringing a new perspective to the ABC Board, not just young people.
Mr. Joyner said that the Board has to be bigger than what happened at the last
meeting. The Board can't react when it is questioned.
Brian Stevens, a resident of 503 Cades Trail, hadn't signed up to speak but
asked to address the Board. He asked the Board to indicate how they stood
regarding the proposed Indigo Phase 2 project. Mayor Hatem said that was a good
idea, but the Board is still open-minded. He said that no one is in favor of
the 1542 requested units, but a process must be followed. Mr. Stevens said he
understood.
Ms. Dutton read public comments submitted by Shirley Sullivan that she
requested become part of the official record of the meeting. Ms. Dutton also
provided an update from the Up Your Arts nonprofit organization.
Mayor Hatem read the Ethics statement.
E.)   Approval of Agenda
Mayor Hatem stated that the ABC Board appointment would be removed from the
agenda until the Board could have a workshop to understand ABC Board and store
functions better. Alderman Carroll motioned to approve the agenda with the
removal of the ABC Board item. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller seconded the motion. All
ayes. Motion carried.
F.)   Approval of Consent Agenda-Mayor Hatem summarized the items on the
Consent Agenda.
   1.   Minutes of the Regular Board of Aldermen July 14th, 2022
   2.   Minutes of the Special Joint Workshop July 18th, 2022
   3.   Minutes Board of Aldermen Closed Session July 14th, 2022
Alderman Carroll said that the minutes from the July 18th Joint Session need to
be amended to reflect that he was absent. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller made a motion
to approve the Consent Agenda as amended. Alderman Davis seconded the motion.
All ayes. Motion carried.
G.)   Special Recognition
Mayor Hatem said that Art Newton's life was so compelling. Art Newton was a
painter who resided in Southport and painted so many beautiful pictures. Mayor
Hatem displayed a book about Art Newton's life and said it is a must if you
live in Southport. Mayor Hatem read a proclamation to honor the 100th Birth
Anniversary of Art Newton.
H.)   Agenda
   1.   Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller read a statement about the selection for
Planning Board appointment. She said there is some ambiguity about who serves
on the interview committees. She motioned to clarify that moving forward, the
Planning Board liaisons and the committee or board chair will serve on the
interview committees. Aldermen Carroll seconded the motion. Motion
carried. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller motioned to reappoint Will Hewett to the
Planning Board. She added that he is currently serving as Vice-Chair and has so
much institutional knowledge that makes him such an asset. Alderman Carroll
seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried. Mayor Pro-tem thanked all the
City's volunteers. She said that it is critical to the success of the Planning
Board that the public attend meetings and participate in the dialogue.
   2.   Mayor Hatem opened the public hearing to discuss the annexation of 1224
N. Howe Street at 7:13 p.m. Ms. Dutton stated that there were (6) parcels
included for a total of 0.84 acres. This annexation request is contiguous to
the City limits. At the July Board meeting, the Board accepted the Clerk's
Certificate of Sufficiency and scheduled the public hearing for the August
meeting. This parcel is one of many in that area that is annexing for water and
sewer. Mayor Hatem closed the public hearing at 7:14 p.m. Alderman Lombardi
motioned to approve the annexation of the 0.84-acre tract and the ordinance, as
presented. Alderman Davis seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.
   3.   Mayor Hatem opened the public hearing to discuss the annexation of
Phase 1 of Osprey Landing at 7:16 p.m. Ms. Dutton explained that this tract is
25.59 acres and is non-contiguous. The annexation was part of the Development
Agreement for Osprey Landing. The Board accepted the Clerk's Certificate of
Sufficiency at the July meeting and set the public hearing for the August
meeting. Mayor Hatem closed the public hearing at 7:17 p.m. Alderman Davis
motioned to approve the annexation of Phase 1 of Osprey Landing and the
ordinance, as presented. Alderman Carroll seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   4.   Mayor Hatem opened the public hearing for the annexation of Phase 2
Osprey Landing at 7:19 p.m. Ms. Dutton explained that this parcel is
contiguous, following Phase 1. Phase 2 is 8.35 acres. The Board accepted the
Clerk's Certificate of Sufficiency at the July meeting and set the public
hearing for the August meeting. Mayor Hatem closed the public hearing at 7:19
p.m. Alderman Lombardi motioned to approve the annexation of Phase 2 of Osprey
Landing and the ordinance, as presented. Alderman Allen seconded. All ayes.
Motion carried.
   5.   Wes McLeod with the Cape Fear Council of Governments provided a summary
of the Indigo Plantation Phase 2 project. The property is approximately 350
acres of undeveloped land currently zoned R-20. The applicants have requested a
map amendment to PUD and approval of a master development plan. The developers
propose 4.1 dwellings per acre, 80,000 square feet of non-residential use. The
City and the developers partnered in having two analyses done; one was fiscal
impacts on the general fund, and the other was impacts on the City's
infrastructure.
   6.   Mr. McLeod continued with the Planning Board recommendation for the
Indigo Plantation Phase 2 project. He said that the Planning Board had
thoroughly reviewed all of the aspects of the proposed project. At the Planning
Board's July meeting, they unanimously recommended denying the proposed master
plan and rezoning request. The Planning Board submitted a statement of
consistency with the recommendation.
   7.   Mr. McLeod explained the proposed zoning map amendment for three
parcels on W. 11th Street. The request is to rezone the three lots from MF to
R-10. This is a request for downzoning. The Planning Board found the rezoning
consistent with the CAMA Land Use Plan. The Board of Aldermen is asked to
approve or deny the map amendment. There were no questions. As presented,
Alderman Davis motioned to approve the zoning map amendment for 300,302 and 304
W. 11th Street. Alderman Lombardi seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   8.   Wes McLeod explained the next zoning map amendment request for 1208 N.
Caswell Avenue. The parcel is currently zoned Business District, and the
applicant requests R-10 zoning. The property is currently in the City's ETJ and
is part of the old Southport Heights subdivision. The Planning Board heard this
request and has recommended approval. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller motioned to
approve the map amendment for 1208 N. Caswell, rezoning it to R-10. Alderman
Lombardi seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.
   9.   Mr. McLeod explained the proposed text amendment that was citizen-
initiated. The proposed amendment would change Section 3.5 Table of Uses to
allow outdoor recreation in the Business District. Outdoor recreation includes
mini golf and water parks. The Planning Board reviewed the request, found it
inconsistent with the Land Use Plan, and recommended denying the text
amendment. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller motioned to deny the text amendment for
outdoor recreation. Alderman Davis seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion
carried. Alderman Davis asked if Conditional Rezoning would be useful in this
case. Mr. McLeod agreed it would be the appropriate process because a site plan
would be required. Alderman Davis asked Wes McLeod to explain the difference
between a text amendment and a conditional rezoning. He explained that a text
amendment wherein a use is amended in the Table of Uses. The proposed use would
be allowed anywhere in the specific district. Conditional zoning requires a
site-specific site plan, and the proposed use would only be valid on that
parcel, not the entire district. Also, the Board can establish conditions
regarding the use of the property by using Conditional Rezoning.
I.)   Committee Reports
Aldermen Allen, Carroll, and Alt had no committee reports. Alderman Davis said
that the Forestry Committee is seeking new members. She also stated that the
Committee has been working hard to add a list of issued tree permits to the
City's website.
Alderman Lombardi reported that the Beautification Committee had suspended all
work for August because of the heat and humidity.
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller said that the ad hoc committee for creating a Historic
Preservation Commission was scheduled for the following Friday at 1:00 p.m. at
the Nash Street Fire Substation. Several Board members had met virtually with a
representative of the State Historic Preservation Office and got a lot of
information from her. Dr. Herstine has completed the proposed 2023-2028 Parks
and Recreation Master Plan draft. There will be a draft review on September
13th, 2022, at the Indian Trail Meeting Hall at 6:30 p.m. The future kayak
launch grant application is being prepared. Taylor Field is on schedule. The
kid's derby at the City dock is scheduled for September 5th at 8:30 a.m. The
Parks and Recreation advisory board meeting is on September 2nd at the Indian
Trail Meeting Hall. And the Planning Board meets the following Thursday, as
regularly scheduled. Mayor Hatem added that the ABC store is thriving. There
will be a ribbon- cutting ceremony in September.
J.)   Manager's Report
City Manager Gordon Hargrove said that he didn't have anything to add.
K.)   Mayor's Comments
Mayor Hatem provided the schedule for the Art Newton events. He also said that
Police Chief Coring asked him to remind everyone of the upcoming Cram A Cruiser
program. The Police Department will accept school supplies, including book
bags, notebooks, pens, and crayons, until August 20th. Mayor Hatem thanked Tom
Stanley for him and his staff's hard work on the anchor and cemeteries.
L.)   Staff Reports
Mayor Hatem added that staff reports are in the packet for review.
M.)   Board Comments
Alderman Allen said that last week the City got some great news. We were
awarded $10 million for sewer rehabilitation on the west side of town. These
improvements will help reduce the amount of stormwater treatment that is
needed. Alderman Allen also proposes that the Board of Aldermen meet one week
before the regular Board meeting as a pre-agenda meeting. This meeting would
increase Board knowledge and allows more interaction between Board members. He
recognizes that the City is constrained with resources already, but he thinks
it will be a good thing.
Alderman Alt said the City staff had achieved a Herculean accomplishment. We
are working through FEMA much more smoothly now.
Alderman Davis stated that she agrees with Alderman Allen about the pre-agenda
meetings. Attorney Norwood Blanchard was asked to comment since he works with
other municipalities. Mr. Blanchard said that it reduces the number of
unanswered questions and helps to identify what information is needed before
the regular meetings. The pre-agenda meetings are typically not action
meetings. Alderman Davis added that the local library is a great resource for
learning more about Southport, including its history and architecture.
Alderman Lombardi said he would be in favor of anything that brings clarity to
the Board.
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller said that she is humbled and proud of the Planning
Board's work on the City's behalf. She appreciates the public and the
developers for their willingness to work together. Lastly, she described
National Check the Chip Day, sponsored by Animal Protective Services. If you
have a dog with a chip, consider bringing it to Franklin Square Park on Monday,
August 15th, or Thursday, August 18th, from 6-7:30 p.m. APS Director Kate
Marshall will be there to ensure the pet's chips are working correctly.
N.)   Adjourn
Mayor Hatem told the City Manager that the meeting would be over by 8:00 p.m.
He thanked everyone for being present at the meeting or watching it at home. He
said he wanted to make one more announcement. The September 11th ceremony is
being scheduled. It is probably one of the best ceremonies that take place each
year. Thanks to Chief Drew and his staff for their hard work and planning.
Mayor Hatem said that it had been a good meeting. Alderman Lombardi made a
motion to adjourn the meeting. Alderman Carroll seconded the motion. All ayes.
Motion carried. The Mayor adjourned the meeting at 7:55 p.m.
                     _______________________________________
                     Joseph P. Hatem, MD, MPH.
                     Mayor, City of Southport
______________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
SEPTEMBER 6, 2022
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN         SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
INDIAN TRAIL MEETING HALL EXTERIOR LIGHTING WORKSHOP
SEPTEMBER 6, 2022          
 
PRESENT: Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor Pro-tem Karen Mosteller, Aldermen Tom
Lombardi, Lowe Davis, John Allen, Rich Alt, and Robert Carroll.
STAFF PRESENT: Gordon Hargrove, City Manager, and City Clerk Dorothy Dutton
Mayor Hatem called the workshop to order at 10:02 a.m. Alderman Lowe Davis
provided the invocation, and Mayor Hatem led everyone in the Pledge of
Allegiance.
Mayor Hatem stated that the City was not applying to be a dark skies community,
but the lighting policies are still very important to the City. Lighting should
face away from the sky, other dwellings, and the night birds and insects. Mayor
Hatem asked Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller to expound on the proposed Ordinance
amendment.
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller explained that the amendment was proposed to provide
consistency between the UDO standards and the Code of Ordinance. She reviewed
the amendment. In summary, exterior lighting must be of a certain color
temperature (3000 kelvins or less). Exterior lighting must be installed and
oriented so as to not create a direct glare or illumination onto streets,
adjacent properties, or the night sky. Blinking or flashing lights are
prohibited. Private security lights may not exceed (25) feet in height, and all
accent or landscaping lights must be aimed and shielded. Existing exterior
lighting fixtures do not need to be replaced until they are not longer
functional. But existing lights should be adjusted or shielded so they do not
shine away from their intended focus. Any fixtures that are in need of
replacement, must be replaced with a conforming light fixture (as shown on
provision P.). Holiday lighting and decorative string lighting is exempt from
the provisions except the height and direction of the light. Temporary lighting
installed by an official government agency to address public safety is also
exempt.
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller described the conforming light fixtures.
Alderman Davis said that there are many different options in Lowe’s Home
Improvement that are in compliance with the ordinance. Alderman Alt expressed
concern because most of the churches in the area have lights that shine up.
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller said that if they are shining up onto the church
itself, it is fine. Any lights facing up onto the sky or out, would need to be
shielded.
There was some discussion about which department is responsible for enforcing
this ordinance. City Manager Gordon Hargrove stated that it would fall under
the umbrella of Code Enforcement. Some of the Aldermen suggested that a copy of
the light policy and the tree protection ordinance be distributed to new
residents of Southport.
Adam Steadman, a resident of Indigo Plantation, stated that he was in support
of the proposed ordinance, but wanted to make sure the information was
available to the public.
Ms. Brown-Busch, a resident on Burrington Avenue, explained how important the
exterior lighting policy is. She realized that she had a non-compliant fixture
at her home, and she added gorilla tape to shield it away from the neighbor’s
property.
Mayor Hatem explained that this was a workshop to educate the Board and allow
discussion before voting on the amendment at the September 8, 2022 Regular
Board Meeting.
Alderman John Allen made a motion to adjourn the meeting, which was seconded by
Alderman Carroll. Mayor Hatem adjourned the meeting at 11:09 a.m. All ayes.
Motion carried.
                     ____________________________________
                     Joseph P. Hatem, M.D., M.P.H.
__________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
SEPTEMBER 8, 2022
Regular Meeting Minutes
 
Board of Aldermen  Regular Meeting Minutes
SEPTEMBER 8, 2022  223 E. Bay Street
Community Building 6:00 p.m.
 
Present: 
Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor Pro Tem Karen Mosteller, Aldermen Thomas Lombardi,
Rich Alt, Lowe Davis, Robert Carroll, and John Allen.
Staff Present:   Gordon Hargrove, City Manager
   Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
   Norwood Blanchard, III, City Attorney
   Randy Jones, Communications/Tourism Director
   Allayna Dail, Assistant Director of Tourism and Community Building Manager
   ChyAnn Ketchum, Communications and Public Information Officer
   Heather Hemphill, Parks and Recreation Director
   Kate Marshall, Animal Control
   Todd Coring, Police Chief
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
   Tom Stanley, Public Services Director   
   Wes McLeod, Cape Fear Council of Governments
Others Present: There were many concerned citizens who attended, as well as
Eliot Duke with the State Port Pilot, and Renee Spencer with the Star News
Online.
Meetings are now open to the public. Complete audio/video is available on the
City's website or can be requested from the City Clerk's office.
Mayor Joseph P. Hatem called the meeting to order at 6:01 p.m. and welcomed
everyone to the meeting. He thanked everyone for attending the meeting and
watching online.
Fire Chief Charles Drew provided the invocation, as he does every September.
The invocation included prayers for the families who lost someone on September
11, 2001.
Mayor Hatem led the pledge of allegiance.
Public Comment: 
Mayor Hatem announced that the proposed Indigo Plantation Phase 2 project has
been removed from the agenda. He asked Mr. Chad Paul, with Bald Head Island
Limited, to read a letter concerning the project. Mr. Paul read a letter
stating that East-West Partners Management Co., and Bald Head Island Limited,
elected to voluntarily withdraw all of the pending applications with the City
associated with Phase 2 of Indigo Plantation. They withdrew the application in
order to allow the time necessary to work with the City and negotiate and
appropriate changes.
Mr. Paul added that they have heard from everyone-the public, and the Board.
Their goal is to have a good and healthy conversation and negotiation with the
City. They will not submit an application for exactly the same thing again. He
is confident there is a happy place for both the City and the developers.
Mayor Hatem thanked Mr. Paul and other developers for their willingness to work
with the public and the Board. Alderman Carroll asked City Manager Gordon
Hargrove to explain the difference between an application withdrawal, and a
denial. Mr. Hargrove said that with the voluntary withdrawal of the
application, there is no time requirement before resubmitting an application.
If the project is denied officially by the Board, the applicant must wait at
least six months to reapply unless the Board waives the requirement. Mayor
Hatem added that the Board will do what is right for the citizens and City of
Southport.
City Clerk Dorothy Dutton started calling names from the Public Comment sign-in
sheet. Mr. Karl Bliss, a resident at 1011 Softwind Way, spoke to the Board
about the proposed project at 115 N. Howe Street. He said that the proposed
building will take away the charm of the City. He has lived in Southport for
four years. He said if the building was allowed, there would be overflow. He
suggested limiting the height of buildings to two stories. He added that if
more bars open downtown, there will be beer cans and drunks in the downtown
area.
Another resident from Robert Ruark, discussed traffic concerns, especially with
hurricane preparedness. He asked when the Board was going to do something to
preserve animal habitats.
El Lambert, resident at 109 W. Nash Street, stated she was opposed to the
proposed building at 115 N. Howe Street. She is submitting a petition on behalf
of those opposed to the project.
Tracy Beaulieu, resident of 206 W. Nash Street stated that the current
proposals for 115 N. Howe Street, includes the grease storage and dumpsters are
next to a residential home. This is the only project in the Central Business
District that buts up exactly to a residential home. She said there will be no
privacy for the people who live on W. Nash Street, and where are all the people
going to park?
Ms. Pat Kirkman addressed the Board next. She said that she has been a resident
of Southport for 26-years and resides at 119 Park Avenue. She was speaking
about the cemeteries. She thanked Public Services Director Tom Stanley and his
staff for their work on the cemetery. She started to name a City employee that
she considers partly to blame for the cemetery conditions, but Mayor Hatem
gaveled and told her that, naming a specific employee to accuse them of
something is prohibited. The purpose of public comment is to address the Board.
She apologized and redirected her questions to the Board. She stated that the
cemetery superintendent position has no job description, and the records are
lacking. There are no records of who is buried in each location, and the
financial records have still not been provided. She suggested to the Board that
an ad hoc committee be created to seriously consider a cemetery committee. She
also added that the (4) part time positions that were advertised over the
summer could be combined into one full-time position. She thanked the Board for
their time.
Francesca Slaughter, resident at 6243 Cottage Creek Road, asked the Board to
consider a referendum regarding the proposed Indigo Plantation Phase 2 project.
City Attorney Norwood Blanchard explained that legislative actions allow for
more Board discretion. When a zoning amendment is sought, it is not uncommon to
hear the opinions of the Board members. The public can also speak, but they
have power in voting. If people don’t like the way a Board member is voting on
zoning matters, they can vote for a different candidate next election. But
developers cannot be tied down to one particular use in a zoning map amendment.
Ana Scott, resident at 6272 Cattail Court, stated she has been in Southport for
37 years. She said the Board members were chosen and elected because they
seemed to be the best stewards of Southport. The Board has the power to change
the course of Southport forever. She believes they should decline the Indigo
Planation proposed project and added that development should not be at the
expense of the residents.
Jack Gordon, resident at 5921 Dutchman Creek, explained that he moved to
Southport in 2005, and there was already a lot of traffic. At that time, it
took three hours to get from the yacht basin to his home on Robert Ruark during
the 4 th of July festivities. There are simply not enough roads, and the
condition is poor.
Bob Brogan, resident at 4011 Robert Ruark Drive, said that the proposed Indigo
project would back up to his property. He is a license home inspector in the
region. He expects homes to be built, but the intersection of Howe and Robert
Ruark are not able to handle the amount of traffic that would be added. There
are housing developments going up all along NC 211 Hwy and US 17, all the way
to Myrtle Beach. Southport doesn’t have the schools or stores to support a huge
increase in population. Bigger populations bring drugs, violence, and gangs to
the area. He added that Southport doesn’t want to become another Wilmington.
Lois Gandy, resident at 5961 Spikerush Trail, said she is concerned about 9 th
Street. She urged the developers to reconsider the location of the proposed
Indigo Phase 2 project, for the safety of the children at Southport Elementary
School. She said that safety in classrooms is already a concern, and now, the
parents and teachers would have to worry about the children dealing with
traffic.
Pearline Messer, a resident at the senior apartments on Dosher Cut-off, said
that there is not enough senior housing in the area. The rent where she resides
keeps increasing and now most of the elderly people there will have to find
somewhere else to live. She said that she has lived in the apartment for five
years, and her rent went up to $1084 a month. People have to make the decision
to pay rent or buy the prescriptions they need. There is no where for people to
go in the area.
Mayor Hatem read the Ethics Statement.
E.) Approval of Agenda.
Alderman Lombardi made a motion to approve the agenda to include the omission
of the Indigo Project. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller seconded the motion. All ayes.
Motion carried.
F.) Approval of Consent Agenda.
Mayor Hatem summarized the items on the Consent Agenda.
   1. Regular Board Meeting Minutes August 9, 2022
   2. Closed Session Board Meeting Minutes August 9, 2022 (confidential)
   3. Special Board Town Hall Meeting Minutes August 3, 2022
   4. Tax Releases 2021-2022
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller made a motion to approve all of the items on the
consent agenda. Alderman Lombardi seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion
carried.
G.) Special Recognition
   Mayor Hatem read several proclamations:
      1. Proclamation for Constitution Week September 17-23, 2022
      2. Proclamation for P.O.W./M.I.A. National Recognition Day
      3. Proclamation Recognizing the 21 st Anniversary of September 11 th :
Mayor Hatem
encouraged the public to attend the September 11 th Memorial Program on Sunday,
September 11 th at 9:00 a.m.
H.) Agenda
Mayor Hatem invited Mr. Eric King from Morningstar Marina to speak to the
Board. Mayor Hatem added that the marina will be great partners with the City.
The company is out of Monroe, North Carolina. Mr. King said that they are in
the business of storage. They are in the process of installing a living
shoreline by the gazebo open space area. The shoreline is decreasing every day,
so they are using oyster shells and sea oats where they can and will evaluate
what each section needs. Morningstar Marina will provide $25,000 towards the
kayak launch. They are happy to help the City and the public however they can.
Mr. King said that he would like to see Military Appreciation Day return to the
marina. He also said that there are a lot of questions about a restroom at the
kayak launch. Morningstar Marina is open to building a unisex restroom for use
at the kayak launch. Mr. King thanked all of the City staff that has helped-
permitting, and the fire marshal, and everyone else. Mr. King invited the
public to visit the marina anytime.
Mayor Hatem asked City Attorney Norwood Blanchard to provide some insight about
the court case in Wilmington, NC, regarding short-term vacation rentals. Mr.
Blanchard explained that in April 2022, the courts agreed with the Plaintiffs,
and declared that using a registration program to monitor short-term vacation
rentals was unconstitutional. As a result, short-term rentals can only be
managed through zoning. The City of Southport’s ordinance was modeled after
Asheville, NC, but it was similar to the City of Wilmington’s, too. The Court
did not strike down all the provisions, just the registration program. For
example, a municipality can still require an off-street parking space, and can
require the owners to post important emergency numbers in a prominent area. Mr.
Blanchard advised the City to suspend the permit requirement and direct the
staff to prepare a list of those who paid for their permits, and issue refunds.
He also recommended that the ordinance go back to the Planning Board for review
and amendments . Alderman Allen made a motion to suspend the registration and
fees for the short-term rentals and homestays, refund the fees, and send the
ordinance back to the Planning Board. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller seconded the
motion. All ayes. Motion carried.
Mayor Hatem stated the next item was a public hearing to consider adopting an
ordinance that would create a Historic Preservation Commission in Southport. He
mentioned J. Arthur Dosher, Art Newton, history of the river pilots, historic
homes, churches, and cemeteries. Mayor Hatem asked Mayor Pro-tem to elaborate
on the proposed ordinance. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller explained that the
conversation about a Commission started about 40 years ago. This evening, we
are considering the first step in protecting the City’s heritage. The purpose
of this ordinance is to establish a local Commission. This ordinance is based
on the state model ordinance, and describes the power, duties, and rules of
procedure. If adopted, it will become part of our Code of Ordinances. Once the
members are appointed, they will present the appropriate districts, inventory,
and guidelines. That portion would be adopted as part of the Unified
Development Ordinance, after review and recommendation by the Planning Board.
Mayor Hatem opened the Public Hearing at 7:30 p.m. There were no comments from
the public or the Board. Mayor Hatem closed the hearing at 7:31 p.m. Mayor Pro-
tem Mosteller made a motion to adopt the ordinance to create a Historic
Preservation Commission. Aldermen Carroll, Allen, and Davis all seconded. All
ayes. Motion carried.
Mayor Hatem called on Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller to explain the proposed Exterior
Lighting Ordinance. She stated that the proposed ordinance is a result of the
work of the Street Light Committee. While working on the street light policy,
the committee recognized the need for additional ordinance regarding exterior
lighting. One of the important issues the ordinance addresses is light
trespass. The purpose is to shield the lights from adjacent properties and the
night sky. This ordinance will help protect nighttime insects and birds.
Seasonal and string lights are exempt unless they cause problems for neighbors.
Alderman Davis added that lights should shine down, not up. There is a page of
examples for light fixtures. Light fixtures are not exclusive to those shown on
the page, but merely examples of conforming light fixtures. Existing lights are
grandfathered. However, when fixtures fail and are being replaced, the new
fixtures should comply with the proposed ordinance standards. Alderman Alt
stated that the purpose of the ordinance is not to consider churches with up-
lighting in violation. If the light shines up, but shines on the structure,
that is not a violation of the ordinance. Mayor Pro-tem summarized that there
should be no light trespassing and lighting should comply with dark skies.
Mayor Hatem opened the Public Hearing at 7:42 p.m. Jeanne Brown-Busch walked to
the podium. She said that she chose to live in Southport over a decade ago. She
loves the sheer beauty of Southport and loves to sit at the waterfront. She
commended the Board for the previous adoption of the new UDO standards, and now
considering the Code of Ordinance update. She added that we will all be held
accountable to protect the night sky. She urged the public to take a walk at
night and let the beauty seep into our souls. Tracy Beaulieu thanked the Board
for the lights on Howe Street. The Public Hearing was closed at 7:47 p.m.
Mayor  Pro-tem Mosteller made a motion to adopt the proposed amendment to the
Code of Ordinances regarding exterior lighting. Alderman Davis seconded the
motion. All ayes, Motion carried.
Mayor Hatem asked Wes McLeod with the Cape Fear Council of Governments to
explain the next few items. Mr. McLeod stated the next item was a proposed
amendment to Section 3.18 of the Unified Development Ordinance, regarding Tree
Preservation. He reviewed the proposed amendment including the new mitigation
language, regulated trees, and tree impact permits. This amendment was a
coordination of the Planning Board and the Forestry Committee. The Planning
Board made a favorable recommendation to the Board of Aldermen. Mayor Hatem
opened the Public Hearing at 7:49 p.m. There were no questions from the public
or the Board. Mayor Hatem closed the Public Hearing at 7:50 p.m. A motion was
made by Alderman Davis to approve the Statement of Land Use Consistency, and
the amendment to 3.18 Tree Preservation, as presented. Alderman Lombardi
seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.  
Wes McLeod reviewed the proposed UDO amendment to several sections of the
ordinance regarding the standards in the Central Business District and Business
District. The proposed amendment would reduce the maximum height in those
districts to (30) feet and places a maximum of two stories for buildings in
those districts. The proposed amendment also increases buffer requirements
between those districts and residential districts, redefines the allowed uses
on each level in a mixed use building, and establishes minimum off-street
parking spaces. Mayor Hatem opened the Public Hearing at 7:52 p.m. Alderman
Davis asked Mr. McLeod to expound on the specific standards and how much they
were changing. Mr. Swenson, owner of Provisions and Company, and resident of
Southport, said that he was trying to picture everything in his head. He said
that the proposed ordinance amendment would place restrictions on design
because of the maximum height. That would be a problem in flood zone areas. Mr.
McLeod stated that there is an exemption for property in the floodplain.
Rebecca Kelly, resident of Indigo Planation and local business owner, thanked
the Board. She expressed concern about the existing businesses in older
buildings. If they decline to a point where renovations or reconstruction
should be needed, would they not be allowed to rebuild in the exact manner?
These new standards would make some of the existing lots somewhat unbuildable.
She asked the Board to look at the buffer requirements particularly because
that would cause the biggest problem.
Andrew Laing, owner of a local business and resident approached the podium
next. He stated that he has a lot at stake in the downtown. Reduction of
height, potential loss of tax revenue, etc. He believes that these proposed
changes are a response to some of the proposed projects in the central downtown
area. His proposed project to the existing Bullfrog Corner building and the
application to build a three-story mixed use building at 115 N. Howe Street,
have sent people into a panic. He guarantees that after a few years, the new
building will blend in with the character that is currently present. He also
questioned why commercial districts maximum height lower than in residential
zoning districts. In closing, he added that investments that are made to a
downtown area, will create a prosperous downtown.
Tracy Beaulieu asked if there was any language in the proposed amendment that
would limit the number of short-term vacation rentals or boutique hotels in the
Central Business District. Mr. McLeod answered that there was no language
concerning short-term rentals.
Alderman Alt asked for an explanation and purpose of extending buffers in
between residential and commercial districts. Mr. McLeod explained the purpose
and added that the buffer requirements would be increasing to twenty (20) feet
in the CBD and BD, and to ten (10) feet in MF and PUD.
Attorney Norwood Blanchard added that there would be instances where a variance
could still be obtained for certain projects. If all of the value is removed
from a property because the zoning standards are so strict, that is considered
a taking. A taking is illegal. Alderman Alt suggested the amendment be tabled
until there is more information. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller suggested that
property owners should use the variance process. Mr. McLeod said that the Board
is welcome to change the standards, adopt them tonight, and tweak later.
Rebecca Kelly stated again that she would ask the Board to add a statement that
existing buildings can be rebuilt in the same footprint. Mayor Hatem said that
the standards can always be changed later.
Mr. Swenson approached the podium again to say that it seemed this was a knee-
jerk reaction, and he doesn’t think the proposed language was thought through.
There is no preservation of the town commercially. He suggested that
architectural drawings should be required for commercial buildings. He added
that at the moment, he could build an igloo with an ice cream cone and there is
nothing that could prevent it.
Glen Patterson, resident of 102 W. Nash Street, stated that there are no
limitations to what people can do right now. He doesn’t think that setting a
maximum height is a bad thing. Additionally, there is no noise limitation in
the City. The rooftop bar will have people out all hours making noise. He is
not against development of the property, but there has to be a ceiling to what
people can do.
Rich Gephardt, a local resident,  suggested the ordinance be looked at more
closely. The City is opening themselves up for a lawsuit. Even a partial taking
can result in a lawsuit.
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller said that the first sentence in Item 2 should be
removed, so that it is consistent with the table. And she also said the mixed
use parking standards should be updated to (2) parking spaces per residence.
Mayor Hatem closed the Public Hearing at 8:30 p.m. Alderman Allen made a motion
to approve the Statement of Land Use Consistency and proposed amendments, as
presented and revised. The motion was seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller and
Alderman Carroll. All ayes. Motion carried.
I.) Manager’s Report
City Manager Gordon Hargrove said that the materials for Taylor Field were set
to arrive this week, but they have been pushed back to the end of September. We
just received our building permit from the City today with the elevation
changes. He structures will be prefabricated.
J.) Committee Reports
Alderman Allen and Alderman Carroll did not have anything to report.
Alderman Alt reported that he had gone on a tour of Suny Point. It was an
interesting tour and now he has a better understanding of the operations and
safety procedures.
Alderman Davis reminded the public that the Forestry Committee meets the
upcoming Thursday. She also announced that the limb that fell at the old jail
was infected with fungus.
Alderman Lombardi said that the Beautification Committee will be meeting the
following Saturday. Clean-ups will resume at 9:00 a.m. He thanked the
volunteers and Tom Stanley for his department’s help putting the roof on the
storage shed at the Garrison.
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller reported that the Parks and Recreation Department is
still working on the master plan. There is a public meeting soon for reading
the draft of the plan. She added that the Board has scheduled a special public
meeting for September 16 th at the Indian Trail Meeting Hall, to review and
accept the terms of the CAMA Access Grant Application for the kayak launch. The
Captain Charles Kids Fishing Tournament is the upcoming weekend. Registration
is free and it is for children (16) and younger. She also reminded everyone of
the Parks and Recreation regular meeting at the Indian Trail Meeting Hall on
the second Tuesday each month, and the Planning Board meets next Thursday at 6:
00 p.m.
The Planning Board Minutes and an update from Up Your Arts was included in the
packet.
K.) Mayor's Comments
Mayor Hatem said that the ABC Commission is working to set up a workshop,
probably the week of the 19 th of September. The Mayor and Tish Hatem attended
the crab derby last Saturday and enjoyed it. Mayor Hatem was recently invited
to speak at the Lion’s Club. Thanks to the Historical Society for the Art
Newton festival. He recently attended the Board of Education meeting, and he
was presented with a certificate for the City’s contribution to the Board of
Education. The September 11 th Memorial program is scheduled for Sunday at 9:00
a.m. He urged the public to remember that day as they see fit.
L.) Staff Reports
Mayor Hatem added that staff reports are in the packet for review.
Board Comments
Alderman Allen had no comments.
Alderman Carroll said that he was proud of the Board for the actions taken
tonight. He also thanked the Community Relations Department for the updated
audio-visual equipment.
Alderman Alt stated that on 9 th Street, there is a traffic backlog. The NCDOT
has the unit that looks at traffic uses at schools. The Principal has already
signed off on the study. The study takes about six months, including time
developing solutions. The NCDOT is also going to consider traffic when 500
homes are built, and when 1000 homes are built. The City is allowed to change
the increments.
Alderman Davis said that the Board got a lot done at the meeting. Thanks to the
Planning Board for their hard work.
Alderman Lombardi had no comments.
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller said that she was told once and believes it to be true,
that there are two types of changes-planned and unplanned. The best way to
predict the future, is to plan it. The lighting ordinances, the Historic
Preservation Commission ordinance, and the updates to the UDO, all will help to
maintain the character of the community. She is grateful to be a part of the
community of Southport. There will eventually be nowhere else like Southport if
we preserve our character now. Ms. Lois Gandy asked to announce that Art in the
Park is back. All children are invited on September 18 th at 2:00 p.m., at
Franklin Square Park.
Adjourn
Mayor Hatem thanks everyone who stayed the duration of the meeting. He said
that change is going to come to Southport, but we will try to mitigate it the
best we can. We are blessed to be here. He urged the public to stay in touch
with elected officials; they are here to serve.
Alderman Carroll made a motion to adjourn the meeting, which was seconded by
Alderman Allen. All ayes. Motion carried. Mayor Hatem adjourned the meeting at
8:47 p.m.
                     _______________________________________
                      Joseph P. Hatem, MD, MPH.
                     Mayor, City of Southport
______________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
SEPTEMBER 16, 2022
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN        SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
INDIAN TRAIL MEETING HALL KAYAK LAUNCH-CAMA GRANT
SEPTEMBER 16, 2022         
 
PRESENT:
Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor Pro-tem Karen Mosteller; Aldermen Tom Lombardi,
John Allen, Lowe Davis, Robert Carroll, and Rich Alt
STAFF PRESENT:
Gordon Hargrove, City Manager   Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
Heather Hemphill, Parks and Recreation Director
OTHERS PRESENT: Pat Kirkman, Roberta Dosher, Emma Thomas, Brian Stevens, Tish
Hatem, Eliot Duke (State Port Pilot)
Call to Order
Mayor Hatem called the special workshop to order at 10:06 a.m.
Invocation
Alderman Lowe Davis gave the invocation.
Pledge of Allegiance
Mayor Hatem led everyone in the Pledge of Allegiance.
CAMA Grant Application and Process for Kayak Launch
Mayor Hatem explained that part of the grant application requirement was to
hold a public meeting/hearing to explain the funds matching requirement and the
plans for the project. Mayor Hatem asked Parks and Recreation Director to
explain the process to the Board and public. Ms. Hemphill thanked the Board for
attending the meeting. She explained that the City was granted an easement by
the marina years ago and has never had their own kayak launch. Ms. Hemphill
said that the City had to submit a pre-application to CAMA first, and then the
City was asked to complete the full application, provide engineered drawings, a
cost estimate, a scope of work, and a proposed schedule. After submitting the
pre-application in April, 2022, the City was asked to complete the next step,
and the full application is due by September 19, 2022. The closest ADA
compliant kayak launch is at Oak Island. Ms. Hemphill spoke to a local
contractor about the project to get a cost estimate. Because Brunswick County
is a Tier 3 county, the City must provide a 25% cost match. The marina has
generously donated $25,000 towards the project, and the City has already
budgeted $13,000. We are asking for $150,000 as a grant. The application will
be submitted, and hopefully the City will know the outcome in October 2022.
Ms. Hemphill described the process and explained that obtaining a CAMA permit
will take the majority of the time. Construction will be fairly quick once
things get started. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller asked for clarification on a
permeable access path that was shown on the plans. Ms. Hemphill said that
traditional boardwalk areas are expensive, so this will allow a workable
boardwalk until the Boardwalk can be extended out further. Alderman Carroll
expressed concern about not having enough parking available. Ms. Hemphill
explained that more parking, a bathroom, and a picnic area is planned for the
future.
E)    Public Comment
1. Emma Thomas, who owns the Adventure Company in Southport, said that this
project is a great opportunity. At the planned entrance location, there is
incredible wildlife and birds. The water is tidal, but it doesn’t take you out
too far into the Cape Fear. And it is navigable water.
2. Roberta Dosher asked if the City had funding to complete the additional
phases of the project already, or if the City will apply for additional grants?
Ms. Hemphill said that she will always try to get grant funding if it is
available. She added that the City can apply again with CAMA, or the City can
apply for PART-F funding. After Ms. Dosher asked when the kayak launch would be
open, Ms. Hemphill said that it will take approximately (18) months because the
plans get reviewed by every regulatory organization. State Port Pilot reporter,
Eliot Dukes, told the Board that the parking area is already finished and
suggested the Board members go to the site.
3. Brian Stevens saluted the City for getting this project done. He asked if
there was a special name selected for the launch. He suggested the City place a
storage apparatus at the launch. People could pay monthly rent to the City for
use of the storage option. The money coming in could be used to maintain the
launch area. He added that five spaces for parking is probably not enough, but
it was a great start.
F.)     Board Questions and Comments
The Board had no other questions or comments.
Alderman Allen made a motion to adopt the Resolution in support of the CAMA
grant application and fund matching for the proposed kayak launch. Alderman
Carroll seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.
G. ) Adjourn
After a motion by Alderman Lombardi, and seconded by Alderman Allen, Mayor
Hatem adjourned the Special Public Meeting at 10:35 a.m. All ayes. Motion
carried.
                     _____________________________________
                     Joseph P. Hatem, M.D., M.P.H.
                     Mayor, City of Southport
__________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
SEPTEMBER 20, 2022
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN             SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
INDIAN TRAIL MEETING HALL     113 W. MOORE STREET
SEPTEMBER 20, 2022 10:00 A.M. SOUTHPORT, N.C.
 
PRESENT:
         Mayor Joseph P. Hatem
         Mayor Pro-tem Karen Mosteller; Aldermen Lowe Davis, Rich Alt,
         John Allen, Tom Lombardi, and Robert Carroll
STAFF PRESENT:
Gordon Hargrove, City Manager         Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
Melanie Trexler, Finance Director         Tom Stanley, Public Services Director
OTHERS PRESENT: Emily Miller with McAdams and Associates, Carter Hubard with
W.K. Dickson Engineering, Eliot Duke, from the State Port Pilot, Renee Spencer
with Star News Online, Pat Kirkman, Tish Hatem and other concerned citizens.
A)   Call to Order
Mayor Hatem called the emergency meeting to order at 10:03 a.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Lowe Davis gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
Mayor Hatem led everyone in the Pledge of Allegiance.
   Mayor Hatem welcomed everyone to the special meeting. He explained that the
meeting
Was noticed appropriately, but somehow it was not on the website. Regardless,
the Public Hearing was noticed at the Regular Board meeting, and now the
deadline is close. The meeting would qualify as an Emergency meeting, too. He
summarized the agenda and asked City Manager Gordon Hargrove to explain the
purpose.
D)    Asset Management Plan
Mr. Hargrove said that a couple of years ago, the Cape Fear Council of
Governments completed an Asset Management Plan for the City, but it was not
complete. Because it was not complete, the City was not awarded as much money
as possible. He said that the City has been working with Carter Hubard, an
engineer with W.K. Dickson, to complete the plan. Mr. Hargrove introduced Mr.
Hubard. Carter Hubard said that they are trying to secure as much money as
possible for the City. W.K. Dickson had to supplement the information that was
provided by the CFCOG. They have also created a capital improvement plan. There
is some targeted funding that they are pursuing. Mr. Hubard explained the
projects that the City is applying for funding for: Mulberry Wastewater
Treatment Plant Expansion, Sewer Replacement, Stormwater, and an Inflow &
Infiltration Study.
Alderman Davis asked for more information about smoking the lines. He
summarized that a “smoke bomb” goes off and then gaps or leaks in the system
can be identified because the smoke is coming out. In addition, videoing the
lines helps identify cracks and other leaks.
Alderman Alt asked if we had enough money to camera or smoke all of the lines
that have not been done yet. Mr. Hubard said that they will focus on the older
lines first. Alderman Alt also mentioned the presence of bacteria in some water
testing that was done by a private group. Public Services Director said that
the water that was tested is surface water. He was skeptical that the
contaminants are leaking from a sewer line that is 8-9 feet deep. Mr. Hubard
said they would definitely look into those areas.
    Ms. Emily Miller added that the approval and adoption of the Asset
Management Plan would give the City more points when applying for funding. The
City already has a loan to cover the debt service payment for the USDA Loan for
the Wastewater Treatment Plant expansion, but if we were awarded ARPA funding,
it would reduce our debt service. Because that is such a large ask. We are
submitting the other applications, too. The sewer rehab and I & I study work
together.
E)   Ms. Miller asked the Board to make a formal motion to approve, adopt, and
implement the Asset Management Plan.
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller made a motion to adopt, approve, and implement the
Asset Management Plan to include the operations and management portions.
Alderman Lombardi seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.
   Alderman Allen made a motion to approve the Resolution in Support of
Applying for ARPA funding for the sewer rehab project. Alderman Davis seconded
the motion. All ayes. Motion carried 6-0.
   Alderman Alt made a motion to approve the Resolution in Support of Applying
for ARPA funding for the Inflow and Infiltration Study. Alderman Carroll
seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried 6-0.
   Mayor Hatem said that the Wastewater Treatment Plant Expansion is in pursuit
of the regionalization of the water and sewer systems. Alderman Lombardi made a
motion to approve the Resolution in Support of Applying for ARPA funding for
the expansion of the Mulberry Wastewater Treatment Plant. Alderman Davis
seconded. All ayes. Motion carried 6-0.
   Alderman Allen made a motion to approve the Resolution in Support of
Applying for ARPA funding for a City stormwater study and plan. Alderman Alt
seconded. All ayes. Motion carried 6-0.
F)    Board Comments and Questions
Alderman Alt said that he was very happy that the staff and consultants have
been able to put this all together, particularly Mr. Tom Stanley. Alderman
Allen agreed. There were no other Board comments or questions.
G)    Adjourn
After a motion by Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller and seconded by Alderman Lombardi,
the Mayor adjourned the meeting at 10:42 a.m. All ayes. Motion carried.
                     ____________________________________
                     Joseph P. Hatem, M.D., M.P.H.
                     Mayor, City of Southport
____________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
SEPTEMBER 29, 2022
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN         SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
INDIAN TRAIL MEETING HALL   ASSET MANAGEMENT PLAN
SEPTEMBER 29, 2022         
 
PRESENT:
Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor Pro-tem Karen Mosteller; Aldermen Tom Lombardi,
John Allen, Lowe Davis, Robert Carroll, and Rich Alt
STAFF PRESENT:
Gordon Hargrove, City Manager   Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
Tom Stanley, Public Services Director
   
Call to Order
Mayor Hatem called the special workshop to order at 10:00 a.m.
 
Invocation
Alderman Lowe Davis gave the invocation.
Pledge of Allegiance
Mayor Hatem led everyone in the Pledge of Allegiance.
 
D)    Asset Management Plan Review
   Mayor Hatem stated that Mr. Walter Gross, with Wooten Engineering was here
to speak to the Board and review the City’s wastewater assets and plans for
moving forward. Gordon Hargrove clarified that the previous presentation from
W.K. Dickson was not sufficient, and he had reached out to Wooten. It was a
quick turnaround, but Wooten was able to make the deadline for the City.
   Walter Gross stated they had focused on the wastewater treatment plant,
inflow and infiltration, and pump station rehab. The City needs $100,00o a year
to maintain the current system. Currently, 38% of flow into the system is I &
I, which is considered excessive. The City has 891 manholes, and 203 are in
poor condition. Five of the City’s pump stations are in poor condition. There
was discussion about the amount of money the City is paying the County for I &
I to be processed. The City would need $54.3 million dollars to bring
everything up to good condition. The City is hoping to receive $15 million
through the fall round of ARPA funding.
   Gordon Hargrove added that the Wastewater Treatment Plant was currently
going out for bid. Mr. Hargrove thanked Emily Miller, Melanie Trexler, Tom
Stanley, and Dorrie Dutton for all their hard work in getting everything ready
so quickly. The Board had no further questions. Walter Gross thanked the City
for the opportunity.
E)    Resolutions for Consideration
    1. Alderman John Allen made a motion to approve, adopt and implement both
the Asset Management Plan and the Capital Improvements Plan, as presented.
Alderman Davis seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.   
2. Alderman Tom Lombardi made a motion to approve the resolution in support of
applying for stormwater construction ARPA funding. Alderman Davis seconded the
motion. All ayes. Motion carried.
F.) Board Questions and Comments
   Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller thanked Mr. Gross and Wooten Engineering for meeting
the deadlines. Alderman Carroll asked if the City had already paid W.K. Dickson
for the other AMP, and Mr. Hargrove said that they had not been paid.
G.) Adjourn
   Mayor Hatem adjourned the meeting at 10:24 a.m., after a motion from Mayor
Pro-tem Mosteller. Alderman Lombardi seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion
carried.
                     _____________________________________
                     Joseph P. Hatem, M.D., M.P.H.
                     Mayor, City of Southport
 
__________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
OCTOBER 13, 2022
Regular Meeting Minutes
Present:
      Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor Pro Tem Karen Mosteller, Alderman
      Thomas Lombardi, Rich Alt, Lowe Davis, Robert Carroll, and John Allen.
 
Staff Present:   Gordon Hargrove, City Manager
      Tanya Shannon, Deputy Clerk
      Todd Coring, Police Chief
      Charles Drew, Fire Chief
      Ralph Treadway, Battalion Chief
      Heather Hemphill, Parks & Rec. Director
      Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
      Tom Stanley, Public Services Director
      Kate Marshall, Animal Protective Services
      Randy Jones, Community Relations Director
      ChyAnn Ketchum, Communications/Public Information Officer
      Allayna Dail, Assistant Director of Communications
      Tori Deviney, Permit Technician
      Mo Meehan, City Planner
      Travis Henley, Development Services Director
      Patti Fortuna, Human Resources Director
      Kari McColl, Payroll Specialist
      Norwood Blanchard III, City Attorney
 
Others:      Wes Macleod, Senior Planner Cape Fear Council of Governments and
         Patrick Flanagan, Regional Planner Cape Fear Council of Governments
         Lloyd Ludlow, The Polote Corporation
         Raymond DiGuiseppe, Attorney with The Polote Corporation
 
Meetings are now open to the public. Complete audio/video is available on the
City's website
or can be requested from the City Clerk's office.
Call to Order
Mayor Joseph P. Hatem called the meeting to order at 6:04 P.M. and welcomed
everyone. He thanked the City’s First Responders and City Staff for their
preparations, responses, and post-actions from the effects of Hurricane Ian.
Invocation
Trinity United Methodist Church Reverend Stuart Milton gave the Invocation.
Pledge of Allegiance
The Pledge of Allegiance was led by Mayor Hatem.
Mayor
Mayor Hatem announced that he will be calling a Board of Aldermen Special
Closed Session Meeting in November to meet with the Development Services
Director, Interim City Manager, and the Development Agreement Attorney
regarding options for the Indigo Phase II project. The Mayor will also be
calling a Special Closed Session Meeting on October 20th to discuss and vote on
the Interim City Manager position.
D)   Public Comment :
 
1.    Mr. Mitchell resident on Bethel Rd. came to the podium and expressed
concerns with the Proposal for Land Purchase or Licensing Rights on the 441-
acre tract parcel located near Sunny Point owned by the City. He said there are
many factors that must be determined before any use of the land can be done
including notification and permission from MOTSU (Military Ocean Terminal Sunny
Point) and to ensure that the proposal is also in agreement with the Joint Land
Use Study.
2.   Deputy Clerk, Tanya Shannon read comments from Ms. Pat Kirkman regarding
the City   Cemeteries. She expressed the need for establishing a Cemetery
Commission that would oversee the maintenance, record keeping, financial
accounting and ordinance amendments.
 
The Ethics Statement was read by Mayor Hatem.
“If any members know of any conflict of interest or the appearance of a
conflict of interest concerning matters on the agenda, please so state at this
time.”
E)   Approval of the Agenda
 
   Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller made a motion to approve the Agenda and was seconded
by Alderman    Allen. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
 
F)    Approval of the Consent Agenda:
   1. Board of Aldermen Special Exterior Lighting Workshop September 6, 2022
Minutes
   2. Board of Aldermen Special Closed Session September 7, 2022 (confidential)
Minutes
   3. Board of Aldermen Regular Meeting September 8, 2022 Minutes
   4. Board of Aldermen Special Workshop September 12, 2022 Minutes
   5. Board of Aldermen Special Meeting September 16, 2022 Minutes
   6. Board of Aldermen Emergency Meeting September 20, 2022 Minutes
 
   A motion was made by Alderman Lombardi to approve the consent agenda and was
seconded by    Alderman Davis. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
 
G)   Special Recognition:
 
   Mayor Hatem presented the following Proclamations and Special Recognitions.
   1. Proclamation for Breast Cancer Awareness Month
   2. Proclamation Recognizing Emergency Nurses Week    
   3. Proclamation   Recognizing Fire Prevention Week presented to Chief Drew.
   4. Special Recognition for City Manager Gordon Hargrove for his service to
the City. Mayor Hatem presented Mr. Hargrove with a plaque in appreciation for
his commitment to Southport. He thanked him for his guidance and helping the
City progress.
       Mr. Hargrove said it has been an honor and privilege to serve the
Community since he was hired in June 2020. He appreciated the work for setting
a solid foundation to move forward and to hope it will continue to move
forward.
   5. Manager Hargrove welcomed the new City Staff.
Maureen “Mo” Meehan , City Planner
Travis Hentley, Development Services Director
Patricia “Patti” Fortuna, Human Resources Director
Kerri McColl, Payroll Technician   
Chief Charles Drew introduced the new Staff to the Fire Department.
EMS Captain Paul Homick
Tandem Hamilton
Keith Van Housen
Alex Finley
Alan Davies
Mason Madison
 
H)   Agenda
 
1.    Yacht Basin Plan-Options Presentation by Patrick Flanagan & Wes Macleod,
CFCOG.
   Mr. Flanagan presented a power point on the Yacht Basin Mobility Study and
said that he recommended creating a 5 year Capital Improvement program to begin
the process. He explained that the elements of the study include purpose,
process, existing conditions S.W.O.T analysis, and recommendations. Mr.
Flanagan said that the S.W.O.T analysis is a strategic planning and strategic
management technique used to help a person or organization identify strengths,
weaknesses, opportunities for project planning. It is sometimes called
situational assessment or situational analysis. He shared an illustration of an
example of a similar concept called Woonerf/Living Street: Madison, WI.
 
   The S.W.O.T analysis: Opportunities:
Create defined space through visual & physical improvements
Embrace waterfront asset through boardwalk connection
Increase availability of bicycle & golf cart parking
Accentuate the unique setting through a formalized and designed Woonerf/Living
Street concept
Establish branding for the “Yacht Basin District”
 
   Generalized Recommendations:
West Bay Street: Repaint existing striping to separate non-motorized traffic;
install armadillo dividers; formalize parking.
Yacht Basin Drive: Create “Yield Roadway”; formal Woonerf/living street and
shared roadway; waterfront Boardwalk.
West Moore/South Caswell: Repaint parking spaces to match CBD dimensions;
install bulb outs and high visibility cross walks; additional sidewalks and
stormwater features Brunswick Street: Paint striping to separate non-motorized
traffic; install armadillo dividers; construct boardwalk to connect to Yacht
Basin.
 
Next Steps
Consider adoption of this study.
Designate staff to oversee the implementation of this study.
Designate the Yacht Basin Overlay District Committee (YBODC) as the potential
responsible board for implementation of this study.
Create a five to six-year Pedestrian and Bicycle Capital Improvement Program
(CIP) to assist with prioritization of projects outlined by the YBODC.
 
2.    Parks and Recreation Employment Position:
   Parks and Recreation Director Ms. Heather Hemphill said that she is looking
to hire a full time    position in the Parks and Recreations Department. She
explained that Maureen “Cookie” Moore and herself are currently the only full
time employees . She said the programs that are offered are very busy,
especially the basketball program. She said that it is difficult to find
employees that would like to work part time hours. Ms. Hemphill, said that the
Parks and Recreation 2020 Master Plan is currently being updated and revised,
and it was recommended the department establish four full time positions to
manage the increasing demand.
   Mayor Hatem said he can understand the need for another staff member because
of the increasing growth in the City. Alderman Allen asked if it would be
difficult to find an employee for a full time position. Ms. Hemphill said that
she already has a part-time employee who is interested in a full time position.
   Alderman Allen motioned to approve the hiring of a full time Parks and
Recreation employee, and was seconded by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller. Unanimous
vote; motion carried.
 
3.   Forestry Committee Appointments
   Alderman Davis said that there were four applicants that applied for the two
open positions. She was pleased to see the interest that community has in the
Forestry Committee. She said that    there are four existing members that would
like to keep their position on the Committee. She said they have all been
productive active members and she would like to recommend Scott Len, Roxie
Smith, Marianne Huntley, and Fred Fiss for reappointment. Alderman Davis said
that one of the four applicants was unable to interview, therefore the three
recommendations for the remaining open positions are Bif Bream and Dina Rousset
for full members and Heather Kos as an alternate member.
   A motion was made by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller to approve the appointments to
the Forestry    Committee and was seconded by Alderman Lombardi.  Unanimous
vote; motion carried.
 
4.   Historic Preservation Commission Appointment (Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller,
Alderman Davis,    Alderman Carroll):
   Mayor Hatem reflected on the History of Southport and how it is important to
him and so many    others. He has a great appreciation for the establishment of
the Southport Historic Preservation    Commission and all the great things that
will be achieved by protecting and preserving the history of our City.
   Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller stated “I want to start by thanking everyone that
volunteered to share their time and talents for historic preservation in our
community.
   The Historic Preservation Commission ordinance that was adopted last month
is only the first step towards creating processes that support the City’s
comprehensive plan’s first core value to, ‘Preserve our historic character’.
   Over the next year, it will be the responsibility of the Commission to hold
public meetings to establish the rules of procedure, identify historic district
boundaries, catalog inventory within the district and create guidelines.
   Once the Commission completes these tasks, the Commission’s recommendations
will be forwarded to the Planning Board and then to the Board of Aldermen for
consideration, recommendations, and adoption.
   Additionally, Commission members will participate in training sessions with
the State Historic Preservation Office, learn about grants and hold public
workshops.
   Commission members will serve as ambassadors in our community, helping to
educate us about the history of Southport and why historic preservation is
important to who we are today and for our future.
   During the past two weeks the ad hoc committee, Alderman Davis, Alderman
Carroll, and I interviewed over 20 volunteers. Everyone we interviewed
demonstrated a passion for Southport and a willingness to serve.
   With a finite number of members on the Commission, we asked every volunteer;
in the event they were not appointed to commission this time around… to please
stay engaged, attend the public meetings and workshops, and participate. There
is a lot of work to be done and for the Historic Preservation Commission to be
successful, this must be a community wide effort.”
   Alderman Carroll
   For the continuity of the Commission, the ordinance provides for the length
of the first    appointments to be staggered as 1-year, 2-year and 3-year
terms. Going forward, after the initial terms are complete, all terms will be
for 3 years.
   Regarding the first two 3-year term appointments
   The ad hoc committee offers the following recommendations.
   Jim McKee – Mr. McKee works for the NC Dept of Natural and Cultural
Resources as the Site    Manager for Brunswick Town and Fort Anderson. Mr.
McKee has been part of the Southport    historic preservation conversation for
over 20 years.
   And, Josh Cline McGee - Mr. McGee has worked in the building, construction,
and design industry for 35 years. Mr. McGee an Architect and was the senior
editor of the 12 th Edition of Architectural    Graphic Standards, a national
publication that is an industry staple. Mr. McGee also serves on the Board of
Adjustment. Our city attorney saw no conflict with him serving on the
Commission. Mr. McGee would simply recuse himself should a Commission decision
be appealed to the Board of    Adjustment.
   Alderman Davis
   Regarding the three 2-year term appointments
   The ad hoc committee offers the following recommendations.
   Alexis Gore Graves – Ms. Graves is a 5 th generation Southport native living
in a historic home that was originally built by her grandfather. Ms. Graves is
actively involved with the John N. Smith Cemetery Board which has recently been
added to the National Register of Historic Places.
   Charles Drew – While we recognize Mr. Drew as Southport’s Fire Chief, he
also has a Level One Building Inspector’s Certification. As Southport native,
Mr. Drew grew up in our historic area and    has had a lifelong passion for
Southport’s history.
   And, Rick Pukenas – As a former Alderman, Mr. Pukenas has supported the need
for a local historic    preservation commission. Mr. Pukenas has a degree in
Architectural Engineering and as local business owner operates the historic
Robert Ruark Inn.
   Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller
   Regarding the two 1-year term appointments
   The ad hoc committee offers the following recommendations.
   Bonner Herring – Mr. Herring is a multi-generational member of the Southport
community. Mr.    Herring lives on Bay Street and has participated in historic
property restorations.
   And, Joanne Wesson – As the President of the Southport Bicentennial
Committee, Ms. Wesson moved to Southport in 1991 to work with business owners
and promote economic development.    Since then, Ms. Wesson has served on
several non-profit community organizations including the    Southport
Historical Society.
   Alderman Carroll
   In addition to 7 full members, there are two alternate members who share the
same responsibilities and duties as full members and vote when a member is
absent.
   Regarding the two alternate member appointments
   The ad hoc committee offers the following recommendations.
   Lewis ‘Tal’ West – As a former three term council member for a small North
Carolina town, Mr.    West has previously served on boards and committees and
worked on projects to support and maintain community character. As a history
major, Mr. West has a passion for historic preservation.
   And, Bonnie Bray – Ms. Bray has shared her time and talents by serving on
the Board of Directors for Up Your Arts and worked to save the Old City Hall
Courthouse building. Ms. Bray has demonstrated experience and commitment to
historic preservation and as a former municipal finance office has extensive
grant management experience.
   A motion was made by Alderman Carroll to approve the above stated seven full
members, and two alternate members for the Historic Preservation Commission,
and was seconded by Alderman Lombardi. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
       5.    Proposal for Land Purchase or Licensing Rights-Polote Corporation
(Lloyd Ludlow, Polote Corporation and Raymond DiGuiseppe, Attorney)
    Mr. DiGuiseppe presented the proposal for the City. He said the Polote
Corporation has    supported small to mid-sized construction projects
throughout the east coast, with a specific focus on the southeastern region,
for the last 40 years, providing essential program and construction management
services that include supplying the necessary materials and labor for
successful and cost-effective projects. This includes supplying projects with
soils, dirt, gravel, and other raw materials, through excavation, transport,
and delivery of those materials to the construction site.
   Polote’s history in this industry has involved previous projects involving
the excavation, transport, and sale of raw materials from the City of
Southport’s 441-acre tract parcel located near the Military Ocean Terminal
Sunny Point (parcel ID number 1900002). Through this current proposal, Polote
seeks to engage in additional such projects using the same property— this time
by either purchasing the tract (or as much of the tract as the City is willing
to sell) or obtaining exclusive rights and privileges to excavate, transport,
and sell soils, dirt, rock, and other surface materials from the tract.
   As with the previous projects involving this tract, Polote’s ownership and/
or access to it for these additional projects would enable the company to
provide essential materials supply services for major construction projects in
the local area. Over at least the next five years, the projects supported by
Polote’s access to this tract would benefit the community by improving the
local real estate and infrastructure, creating numerous jobs in the
construction industry, and supporting the many local businesses whose products
and services Polote will need in connection with carrying out the projects.
   For a purchase of this tract, or as much of it as the City is willing to
sell, Polote would pay at a price    of $4,000 per acre. For any portion of the
tract that City may not wish to sell, Polote would alternatively propose that
the City license to Polote for a fixed period of time exclusive rights and
privileges to excavate, transport, and sell for soils, dirt, rock, and other
surface materials from    those acres of the tract for which the City grants
such rights and privileges. The parties would    establish a mutually agreed
upon price per cubic yard for any such licensing agreement that they may
establish.
   Mr. DiGuiseppe said that he understands the public comment from the
concerned citizen on Bethel Rd. He said they are aware of the regulations and
said this type of use in permissible in this area. He said the Military
Terminal is looking for a supplier of soils and materials in order to renew the
berms that they use to protect against explosions and operations. He said the
Polote Corporation built those berms 15 years ago and he said the base would
like them to use the same materials that’s close by to renew those berms. He
said 15 years ago the same materials were used from this same parcel with an
agreement with Army Corps of Engineers. Mr. DiGuiseppe said    a benefit of
being near the location of where the project is would mean that materials would
not have to be transported on heavy trucks on public roads because it will be
contained in this location. He explained that Sunny Point Military Terminal
will need the supplying of these materials regardless. He said that it could go
out for bid, but they are hoping to keep the supply of the materials in close
proximity to maintain the safest and most cost efficient manner. He said the
necessary permissions and consents from the US Government would be in place
because the military base is the source of the solicitation for this type of
activity to occur.
   Mr. Lloyd Ludlow Senior Vice-President for the civil operations division for
the Polote Corporation, said he has been in this business for over 35 years
specializing in dam building, construction of heavy berms, and levee building.
He said they are proposing to use the same pit or area located    on the
outskirts of the site. He said the reason for this location is because of the
transportation of the material and the material quality itself is excellent and
perfect for this job. He said this would be a 5 phase project organized by the
Corps of Engineers to enhance and repair the existing berms around the rail
road tracks on the site. He said first phase is bidding process which starts on
   October 19 th . Each bid is around 10-15 million dollars’ worth of material
and the funds have been    passed for these projects over the next five years.
Mr. Ludlow explained that the Polote Corporation has been involved with
material for the berm building area and the nearest suitable materials is
approximately 42 miles away. He said over the life of project approximately 5
years, this would mean over 100,000 trucks of dirt. Thus, will cause dust and
road potential road damage. Mr. Ludlow said the dirt is not only perfect for
this berm building project it is also the    right material for the Boiling
Spring Lakes dam rebuilding project.
   Alderman Carroll asked if the Polote Corporation had the funding available
to offer more than    $4,000 per acre if the City so chose to sell instead of
leasing. Mr. Ludlow said that if the City did    decide to sell the price of
the acreage offered could be negotiated. Alderman Carroll questioned if Bethel
Road or any other public roads would be accessed for this project or the BSL
dam rebuilding project. Mr. Ludlow said that no public roads including Bethel
Rd. would be accessed for the current proposed berm rebuilding project. Mr.
Ludlow said the only time that public roads    would be accessed would be for
the BSL project. Alderman Carroll asked if there was a proposal for this
project and where access points would be. Mr. Ludlow said that he did not know
those accesses yet, but he could find out. Mr. Ludlow pointed out that the BSL
dam rebuilding project is a secondary project that would have to get separate
approval for where and when this project would take place.    
   Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller asked if this was like “strip mining” and what would
the landscape look like after the completion of the project. Mr. Ludlow
explained that the term is called “burrow pit mining”, where they would bench
down 10-15 ft. , take of the top soil, and utilize that mix of sand and clay
type soil that is ideal for a compaction to build the berm. He said they would
be using the    same technique that they used 15 yrs. ago at this same
location. He said after proper engineering, grading, sloping, and reseeding the
excavated area would become a large lake.   
   Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller clarified that the proposal would be deferred to the
Planning Board for full review before any decision is made by the Board of
Aldermen.
   Alderman Davis asked if the proposal was an “all” or “nothing” deal for the
entire tract. She said the City will need to keep at least 20 acres for various
needs of the City. Mr. Ludlow said that are open to any offers, but ideally,
they would need approximately 50 acres for lease or purchase for the Sunny
Point berm building project.   
   Alderman Alt asked how this project would delineate from the Hwy 211 mining
project that was shut done due to the infringement on the Castle Hayne aquifer.
Mr. Ludlow said he was not familiar with that project, but he said that they
would not be going that deep and would be away from the aquifer.
   Alderman Alt stated that looking at the area where the mining is proposed
there are marked trees around the acreage that are protected for the endangered
woodpeckers. Mr. Ludlow said that they are aware of the protected trees and the
endangered species and would follow all    regulations and environmental
protections. Alderman Alt confirmed that the soil will have to be    mined from
somewhere whether it be at this location or from a remote area. Mr. Ludlow said
that    was correct, and the Corporation would like to utilize this familiar
location 15 years prior. Alderman Alt asked if they were aware that the City
could request an environmental impact study be performed and submitted prior to
approval. Mr. Ludlow said that they would submit a professional engineering and
environmental plan.
   Alderman Carroll asked if there was a time frame on a decision from the
City. Mr. Ludlow said that is was a 5 year project with 5 phases, and they were
just beginning the process, and were not in a restricted time frame. Alderman
Carroll asked if the City decided to do a licensing agreement for lease would
that be per year or for the total 5 year agreement. Mr. DiGuiseppe said that
there was not a leasing agreement fee amount offered. If the leasing
alternative was the option for the City, there would be a licensing agreement
and fee per acre negotiated.
   City Attorney Blanchard explained the 2 options. That the land could either
be purchased or leased. If the licensing agreement was opted, then it would
just be for the extraction of the soil and nothing else. The City could decide
how much of the land would be negotiable for purchase or lease. Mr. Blanchard
said that the project site would look like a lake. Mr. Ludlow said that was
correct and there could be multiple locations on the site that would be used
for the soil excavation. He said that they are hoping that it would look
exactly like the dirt mining preformed 15 years ago. He said that this is an
assumption that nothing has changed since that time period, the project
engineers will have to observe and test the site for the exact details.
   Alderman Davis asked if the property is sold and the project has been
completed, and there is a large lake left what else could be done on that
property. Mr. Ludlow said that the land would be restricted for recreational
use and the land would never be developed. He said there are very strict rules
from the US Army. Alderman Davis asked if there would be any blasting involved.
Mr. Ludlow said there would not be any.
   Alderman Allen questioned if it is anticipated to have the burrow pit mining
on approximately 50 acres does that have to be contiguous or is it possible
that would be multiple different sites. Mr. Ludlow said that it could be
multiple site over the 50 acre tract. He said the City could decide if they
want it to be contiguous or over multiple sites, that it would not interfere
with the project. Alderman Allen asked what type of machinery would be used for
the project. Mr. Ludlow said that nothing bigger than a track hoe and
bulldozers to push the soil and compact it on the berms. Also, excavator road
worthy trucks and not off-road trucks. Alderman Allen asked how much dust or
sand is expected for the wind to carry offsite. Mr. Ludlow said that they would
have to adhere    to the dust control policy set by the Corp of Engineers , and
therefore the dust will be controlled and contained.
   With no other questions from the Board at this time, Mr. Ludlow concluded
that he is looking forward to working with the City and the Community to ensure
that the project will be successful without any complications to the City or
adjacent property owners.
   Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller made a motion to forward the written request for
the Proposal for Land Purchase or Licensing Rights of the City’s 441 acres land
near Sunny Point Military Terminal submitted by the Polote Corporation to the
Planning Board and ask that the Planning Board    provide a written
recommendations to the Board of Aldermen regarding this proposal and was
   seconded by Alderman Lombardi. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Mayor Hatem made an amendment to agenda item H:4. The appointment of the
Historic Preservation Commission Board Liaison. Alderman Allen recommended
Alderman Carroll as the Board of Aldermen Liaison to the Historic Preservation
Commission and seconded by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller. Unanimous vote; motion
carried.
 
I.    Manager’s Report
 
   Mr. Hargrove : none
 
J.   Committee Reports
 
Alderman Allen: None
Alderman Carroll: None
Alderman Alt: ElectriCities Report in the Agenda packet.
Alderman Davis: Reiterated the Forestry Committee Appointment.
Alderman Lombardi: Could use more volunteers for the Beautification Committee.
Alderman Mosteller: Parks and Recreation Advisory Committee has received the
draft of the proposed 2023-2028 Parks and Recreation and Open Space Master
Plan. The consultant Dr. Herstein will be presenting the draft on November 8 th
at the regular scheduled Parks and Rec. meeting. Parks and Recreation will be
hosting the Halloween Spooktacular Carnival Friday October 28 th . Basketball
registration for ages 4 to 17 begins November 7-30 th . The expected completion
date for the Taylor Field Park has been extended due to the delay in materials.
The materials are projected to be delivered by the end of October. Reminder the
Parks and Rec. Advisory Committee meets the second Tuesday of each month at 6:
30 pm. The City is also looking for volunteers to apply for the Planning Board.
The Planning Board meetings are on the second Thursday of every month at 6:00
pm.
Mayor Hatem reported that the ABC Board has continued with their regular
meetings. They are doing their punch list for the new building. They have a
lottery system for the allocated bourbons, and lockers for the employees. He
said sales are strong, although the sales were a little down because of closure
due to Hurricane Ian.
 
Mayor Hatem thanked everyone for their reports.
 
K.   Mayor Comments
 
   Mayor Hatem thanked the Parks and Recreation Department for officiating the
Captain Charlies Fishing Tournament, he said it was a lot of fun seeing several
generations of family out together fishing. He thanked the Fire Department for
the delicious chilly supper, and he enjoyed watching the all the children
playing on the fire trucks. He announced that former Mayor Sandy Spencer asked
him to do the welcome at the Southport Oak Island Inner Church walk on October
23 rd . Mayor Hatem reminded everyone to attend the Parks and Recreation
special Halloween event on October 28 th and the Fire Department on October 31
st for trick or treating. He expressed his gratitude to the Citizens and Staff
for being involved in the Community.
L.    Staff Reports
 
    Provided in the Agenda Packets.
M.   Boards Comments
 
   Alderman Allen thanked Manager Hargrove, Chief Drew, and Chief Coring for
their outstanding hurricane response. He said that they had a great plan and
they implemented it perfectly. He said it was a great combination of leadership
and teamwork. He said there are also many other    departments and staff that
were involved with the response and on behalf of all the citizens he    said
than you to all of them. Alderman Allen reminded everyone to get their flu and
covid vaccines.    He thanked Mr. Hargrove for his work over the past two years
and the tremendous progress that was made, and he hope that progress will
continue and that many more projects will continue to move forward.
   Alderman Carroll concurred Alderman Allen regarding the great response form
the City’s Emergency Personnel. He applauded Tom Stanley and Public Works for
working out in the middle of the storm cutting up trees and getting them
removed, and the Fire and Police Department as well. Alderman Carroll gave
appreciation and thanks to Mr. Hargrove for his service to the City. He thanked
Alderman Mosteller and Davis for their coordination with the establishment of
the Historic Preservation Commission. He said it has been years in the making
for this Commission and now it has come to fruition. He said there were 22
applicants that applied for the Commission    which he said shows the spirit of
Southport and their desire to preserve the reason why some may people love
Southport.
   Alderman Alt gave his appreciation to Mr. Hargrove and said that it was a
pleasure to work with him. He thanked Tom Stanley and Melanie Trexler for
ensuring that the storm debris removal is    being properly being processed for
possible reimbursement from FEMA if the declaration for the    request in
approved.
   Alderman Davis reiterated the 22 applicants that applied for the Historic
Preservation Commission and appreciated all of the candidates interest. She
said although there were nine positions available, she felt that all the
applicants that applied have great knowledge and experience in the preservation
of history. She encouraged everyone to attend the meetings and become involved.
Alderman Davis thanked Mr. Hargrove and wished him well in Boiling Spring
Lakes.
   Alderman Lombardi gave his appreciation to Mr. Hargrove for his
accomplishments and wished the best on his future endeavors.
   Alderman Mosteller stated that a lot of volunteers have been recognized
tonight such as new members to the Forestry Committee and the Historic
Preservation Commission. She expressed her gratitude to all the volunteers who
serve the City. She stated a quote regarding volunteering.
   “ Volunteering is the ultimate exercise in democracy. We may vote in
elections once a year but when you volunteer you vote everyday for the kind of
community you want to live in.” She said we all know part of what makes our
community special is the citizens that volunteer their time for the good of the
City and their neighbors. She encouraged the community to be involved with the
committees by attending the meetings, being involved, and contributing input.
She thanked Mr. Hargrove for his service. She announced that Animal Protective
Services is partnering with Paws Ability for the 6 th Annual Sydney’s Howl-o-
ween Bowser Bash on October 22 nd .
   Mayor Hatem concluded by thanking everyone for attending. He gave his
gratitude to Mr. Hargrove and wished him well. He applauded the response from
the City’s emergency personnel and for helping the City to recover quickly. He
said that the City has made great progress and that we continue to move
forward. He wished everyone a safe and Happy Halloween.
   There being no further questions or comments Mayor Hatem asked for a motion
to adjourn.
N.   Adjournment  
 
   A motion was made to adjourn by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller and was seconded by
Alderman    Lombardi. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
 
   Adjourned at 8:06 p.m.
                  __________________________________________
                     Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, M.D., M.P.H
_____________________________________
   Deputy Clerk, Tanya Shannon
NOVEMBER 10, 2022
Board of Aldermen Regular Meeting November 10, 2022
Call to Order:
6:04 p.m. Moment of Silence for Burke
Pledge led by Mayor Hatem
Our meeting is one of Thanksgiving
Thankful for Veterans and First responders, and City employees (holiday bonus),
reappointments, and all who serve on different City Boards. For those who speak
at public comment, and all citizens. Thankful for organizations like Lions,
Historical Society, Downtown Southport, NCDEQ and NC Wildlife
Thankful for Interim Manager, new employees, Department heads during time of
transition, CFCOG, Rabon, Miller, thankful for free press, Aldermen for
dedication to the City. Thankful for everyone, everything that is a part of
Southport. Local business, restaurants, libraries, yacht basin, historical
heritage. We in Southport, are truly blessed.
Comments:
Indigo Phase 2: They are zoned R-20 currently. They submitted a plan for a PUD.
August 17, 2022-headline “Mayor 1,542 units is not acceptable.” We heard the
voice of the people. We look at multiple things-HP, PHS, wildlife, cultural
heritage and neighborhoods. We are looking for least impact but best result for
the City. There is no application currently. We instituted an agreement with
BRUNSCO that doesn’t allow parallel lines. Any development has to be annexed in
order to have sewer. The City hired a development agreement attorney to help
the Board navigate the project and help us negotiate for the best outcome. They
have given some direction to the attorney as to what is best for the City. We
will have a town hall meeting with the new planners. There is no vote or
anything expected any time soon. There are no applications right now.
There is no action on the yacht basin right now. We will have a meeting in 2023
to discuss possibilities.
Frank Lai-president of the Indigo HOA, he has seen Southport grow from a small
fishing village to what it is now. As things go forward, he asks if the Board
will continue to keep them informed and consider the citizens opinions.
Bev Hammond-ROW Ordinance. They received a letter regarding their house on
Clarendon they were renovating. They replaced plants that were already in that
footprint. A lot of homes downtown are in violation. How did they get the
violation? The process is understandable. They checked with BEMC emergency
services. The ordinance is super clear and strict. Part of the charm of
Southport is having the landscaping at the road. There is no clear cut
direction to City staff as how to handle it. She thinks there are issues with
the ordinance. Suggests we tweak it a little, to make it more enforceable, etc.
She asks that the City withdraw the violation. They have worked hard to bring
value back to the City by renovating the house. The ordinance is enforced
arbitrarily. City staff was super helpful and pleasant to work with. How many
violations have currently been issued?
Mayor-he and the City Manager have been talking about this already and City
staff is working on a presentation.
Karen Rife-thanks to the Board and Bonnie for the updates. No High Density
Southport. Purpose was to raise awareness of this project. They wanted to hear
from the citizens. The survey mentioned infrastructure, quality of life, etc.
October 15 th -invitation was sent out. Not a city-sponsored event. Spoke to
City Clerk-no more than three Board members attended, they would have to comply
with the Open meeting requirements. They did not violate that rule. We want to
work together on this project.
Agnes McGeever: thanks for letting her speak. Thank you for speaking about the
project at the beginning. August 10 th -Mayor said it was time to hear from the
Citizens.
November 5-there have been and will continue to be many opportunities for the
public to speak about the project. IT is the only effort to gather the voice of
the public/people. They are not talking about workshops, public comment time,
etc. What type of organized efforts have been made to gather the public input
before a decision is made.
Mayor-we have had very good participation at the meetings, Town Halls, etc. We
have spoken with people when they call us, or email. Mayor Hatem wants to get
more information to the public about what R-20, PUD means. That goes for every
subdivision. Letters to the editor, etc. There has been a lot of information
sent out. We have not tried to limit information to the public. The Planning
Board took a long time to review the project and recommended to deny the
project. R-0. The Aldermen and the Mayor are available by phone. This is the
biggest project since 1792. All the comments are recorded. Our goal is to keep
the development as quaint as possible. They can’t go to the County for sewer.
There is nothing on the table right now.
Maria Swenson-thanks to Board and Mayor. Yacht Basin plans. How many of ya’ll
have resided permanently in Southport for more than 10, 20, 30 years? Some of
us have been here a little longer and have done things to help the City. The
yacht basin plan includes reclaiming r.o.w.s. Will provide parking. No
discussion of reverting traffic patterns back to the way they were. How many
have been down there during the high tides? Boardwalks? In front of private
slips? Without City help, studies or workshops, the owners down there planned
traffic, etc. Southport is a town of citizens, not tourists and visitors. We
ask, plead to be the leaders to listen, have open dialogue and hear the
citizens.
Pat Kirkman-Aldermen, and Ms. Therrien. She will be a minor and consistent
voice, she appeals to the Board, for cemetery ordinance. Cemetery Commission.
Jim Lightbourne: Pilot Articles raised concerned. Interactions with the ABC
Board. Aldermen use of social media. It did raise concern about appropriate use
of social media. Read the Ethics statement for Aldermen. Shouldn’t there be
some guardrails for the use of social media? Should the Board be able to post
information and their interpretations on social media? There should be agreed
upon guidelines in place. They have Board meetings and other opportunities to
state their opinions, etc. There is already a robust outlet for the Board to
speak freely about their opinions, etc. Social media can create followers,
misinformation, a sense of divisiveness. He is not saying that Southport has a
problem now, but he asks the City to create some policies.
Indigo is the other topic. Negotiation that is ongoing between the Board,
staff, and developers. He couldn’t find anything in the UDO about negotiating.
He was just curious about that procedure.
Mayor: we aren’t negotiating. Our attorney is negotiating on our behalf.
Norwood-he is not the development attorney. There are a lot of items in the UDO
that come before the Board. He talked about allowable uses in the R-20. And
evidentiary hearings, etc. He said the Board has seen several special use
permits. They could build a group home and have addicts, etc. living there.
WTH?!
Mayor Hatem-social media policy in the works
Item E. Sunny Point Property-Presentation Only
Chesley Ward-thank you for having them here tonight. Land acquisition is a very
important tool for conservation. Rare wildlife and habitats-White Springs
Natural Habitat Area-the Southport tract has the highest significance because
of more natural habitats. Discussions back in 2020. Investigations Report. Dec
2021-partial funding of the tract. That is where they are in the process. What
comes next?
Order an appraisal-couple of months.
State Property Office makes an offer.
IF accepted, the Wildlife will pursue remaining funds. Phase 2 conducted.
Letter of Intent between the City and Wildlife. No contractual agreement.
Once we have a funding plan-project goes before the NC Council of State. Open
agreement. Title search. NCWRC receives all funds and then close on the
property. Usually a year and a half. Turn over to Kacy Cook.
Kacy Cook-Conservation Importance: 1000 vertebrate wildlife-significant decline
of populations. We have 8 of 21 most endangered ECO systems. Pine leaf is one
of the most endangered.
Only 5% of longleaf pine forest remains. Numerous ponds on the property that
support these endangered species. As these habitats disappear, the species go
with them.
Animals hide underground most of the time to escape the extreme temperatures.
Gopher frog is one of the species. Fire is an extremely important component of
conservation. Gopher frogs can travel up to 2 miles to the same stumphole each
year. The breed in the winter. 32 known sites, now only 7 populations known.
The most important pond at MOTSU-largest natural pond. This is the pond where
most of the breeding has happened in the last 6 years. If something happens to
that pond, the entire population/species could disappear. We want to confirm
their interest in pursuing the tract from the City. We they need that type of
confirmation for them to move forward.
Rich Alt-is they had this property, what would they do with it?
Chesley-open to hunting/trapping to archery only. Not exclusive to hunting.
Public allowed to use the property for outdoor recreation. Periodic fire to
mimic the natural processes. Have you seen the easement? He suggests they look
into it.
Polote: Raymond DeGuiseppe : Thanks for having them for a third time. He
created a slide with more information about the process. The proposal intents
to work with the Wildlife Conservation however the City is willing. The soils
have to come from somewhere. This is the closest contiguous property where soil
can be taken from. They are happy to use only 25 acres, and leave the rest for
wildlife. The City could lease the property for ten years. Collaborative or
cooperative effort. They would only use the soil for the berms at MOTSU now,
not other projects. Vice President-Lloyd Ludlow. They are very interested in
working with Wildlife. Once they had access to the property and do the testing.
They continue to say they are willing to work with the City, Wildlife, MOTSU.
Ray is happy to answer questions, as needed.
Ludlow needs 25-50 acres. They need to do bore sampling. Terra-Core. The Polote
Corp is the company that built the berms originally.
Karen-said that she spoke to Mr. Martin at the herpetology organization. The
Wildlife organization has already invested money and time on the track.
Speaking for herself, she couldn’t support mining and drilling on the property.
Rich-because he is a rep of MOTSU-he got a call from MOTSU, he had asked for
the easement. Malcolm Charles is not present. The Board would have to visit
MOTSU and sign a non-disclosure agreement before they could find out what MOTSU
would use it for.
Karen-asked if Wildlife was considered one of the correct public/nonprofits?
Norwood-said that there were separate statutes that would allow us to work with
Wildlife.
Karen-Since the City is not building a sewer plant, is selling the property in
the best interest of the City.
She and Alderman Carroll visited the property with Tom St. Retaining 20 acres-
topography on the Bethel side isn’t conducive. It seems like a better idea to
sell this property and buy
Sewer enterprise fund. Therefore, the property has to be used for that purpose.

Bonnie-we paid back the grant money. Any money that we get for the property
would have to go back to the enterprise fund.
Mayor-let the land stay there. We have time to make a decision. Do our
research. No rush. Good presentations.
Agnes: Why is the City entertaining another deal if we have been working with
Wildlife since 2020?
Ethics Statement
F. Approval of Agenda:
John. Karen. All ayes. Motion carried.
Consent Agenda: Minutes, Contract with BrunsCo EMS Franchise agreement, Budget
Amendment for carryover POs, Holiday bonus-well deserved: John, Tom L. All
ayes. Motion carried.
H. Proclamation:
Veterans Day: letter to the editor. Armistice Day changed name to Veteran’s
Day. Tomb of the Unknown Soldier. 11:00 am Friday prayer. Mr. Buguskie.
Southport has ceremony at 2pm at the Fire Department. Veterans, please stand
and join at the podium. Tom L. Will Hewet, Tom S., Kate M.,
Mayor read the proclamation.
All stood and clapped.
I. 1. ABC Member appointment: Motion to reappoint Mr. Davis-Robert, Karen. All
ayes. Motion carried.
2. Software for Human Resources: Bonnie: no technology in that department
whatsoever. Walker from NeoGov is here for a quick presentation. It is a
pleasure to be here, there is snow in Salt Lake City, UT.
He will tell people to move to South Carolina, NOT Southport.
Software specifically for public sector. Government and higher ed is their
focus. 130 agencies in this territory use this software. 20 years of public
sector data. Review his presentation for notes. Mobile friendly. Cloud based
software. Onboarding ahead of first day. Checklist, welcome to new employee on
first day. 30, 60, 90 day check-ups. Job duties listed. Mission statement can
be added. No money budgeted but can take money from general and enterprise
funds. Three-year agreement, we can reevaluate, add projects, etc. Motion:
Karen, Tom. All ayes. And authorize Bonnie to sign.
Mayor called Walker-Big Man. WTH.
Interim Managers Contract:
Rich, Karen. All ayes. Motion carried.
Search for City Manager:
We need to start this ASAP because of the holidays. We need to at least post
the ad. Get resumes. Start interviewing. Have a workshop with Board to set
expectations, qualities, etc. Also with the Dept Heads. Bonnie will work with
Patti to create a sales brochure type thing. Authorize the search to start.
National search or statewide search. A lot more expensive nationally. Finding a
manager these days is NOT easy. There are less people going into the field. She
recommends going national. It costs more because of advertising costs, but also
pay for the cost of the flight out, etc.
We could at least start the search. John-ideally we would have someone who has
been working in NC-someone who has coastal development/experience/FEMA
experience, etc., maybe not national, but maybe regional?
Bonnie-you can do it that way.
Tom L-wouldn’t the advertisement mention coastal experience? That would serve
us well.
Robert-salary comparisons.
Mayor-Regional, emergency experience, we want someone who wants to move to
Southport and be a part of our community.
Rich-what do you mean by regional? Mayor-VA, NC, SC, FL., GA.
5. Board of Adjustment:
Tom Lombardi-2 interviews, we would like Harley Lemons to serve again. He has
served as Chair for the last year. And a member prior to that. Tom, Robert. All
ayes. Motion carried.
6. Selection of an Engineering Firm:
Motion-Karen to appoint Wooten. Tom/Robert. All ayes. Motion carried.
Bonnie’s Report: we are going to try to hire someone part time to see if it is
helpful. Audit will be achieved by the middle of December. She is working to
get a project list and the status. She has become aware there are a LOT of
files all over the City. We can get rid of some, digitize some. It is kind of
scary. She appreciates how she has been welcomed so far. We have a lot going
on.
K. Committee Reports:
John-No, HPC Nov 18 th first meeting, NCSHPO office coming down for training
Alt-nothing to report. Tom L-Beautification was postponed. Christmas
decorations coming up, setting up wreaths and trees. Busy month this month. 9:
00 am at the jail annex.
Karen: Parks and Recreation Committee and Dr. Herstine reviewed draft. Plan
will be forwarded to the Board of Aldermen in January. Exciting news: CAMA
grant was approved. Planning Board is next Thursday in this building.
Mayors Report: ABC Meeting-holiday closure. Grateful for Mr. Davis’s
reappointed. Veteran and Africa-american representation. Mayors Comments: candy
cane garden. Southport Wooden Boat Show was a great event. Lots of
participation. Never too late to get immunized. Happy Thanksgiving, Many
Blessings to you and your family and friends.
Staff Reports in packet.
Board Comments:
   John, Robert-none
   Rich: feasibility assessment for space for City staff.
   Tom: welcome to Bonnie. Happy Thanksgiving
   Karen: Welcome Bonnie and Happy Thanksgiving!
Adjourn
Marvelous meeting. Blessings to all. John, Robert. All ayes. Motion cadjounrd
8: 33 pm
DECEMBER 8, 2022
Board of Aldermen Regular Meeting Minutes
December 8, 2022
223 E. Bay Street
Community Building
6:00 p.m.
 
Present:
    Mayor Pro Tem Karen Mosteller, Aldermen Thomas Lombardi, Rich Alt, Lowe
Davis, Robert Carroll, and John Allen
 
Absent:    Mayor Hatem
 
Staff Present:   Bonnie Therrien, Interim City Manager
   Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
   Norwood Blanchard, III, City Attorney
   Randy Jones, Communications/Tourism Director
   ChyAnn Ketchum, Communications and Public Information Officer
   Heather Hemphill, Parks and Recreation Director
   Kate Marshall, Animal Control
   Travis Henley, Director of Development Services
Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   
Others Present: Norwood Blanchard III, Tish Hatem, Will Hewett, Sue Hodgin,
Fred Fiss, Jeanne Brown-Bush, Gaines Brown, Ray DiGuiseppe, Francesca
Slaughter, Renee Spencer with Star News Online, and many other interested
citizens attended.
 
Meetings are open to the public. Complete audio/video is available on the
City's website or can be requested from the City Clerk's office.
Call to Order
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m. She explained
that Mayor Hatem could not attend, and she was asked to preside over the
meeting.
Invocation
Alderman Lowe Davis provided the invocation.
Pledge of Allegiance
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller led the pledge of allegiance.
 
Public Comment: 
The City Clerk called Pat Kirkman, who resides at 119 Park Avenue, forward for
public comment. Ms. Kirkman stated that the City's cemetery ordinances need
review and alteration. The last time they were amended was December 1991. She
asked the Board of Aldermen to appoint a Cemetery Commission to maintain the
records and coordinate the upkeep of the cemeteries with the Public Services
Department. She added that she would keep asking the Board to place more
attention on the cemeteries unless the Board tells her they are not interested
in pursuing any action.
Francesca Slaughter, a resident at 6243 Cottage Creek Road, stated that she is
a member of the "No High-Density Southport" group. They would like to ask the
Board why the City is interested in negotiating with the developers for Indigo
Phase 2. She added that if the City is in a position of power, the City doesn't
have to negotiate. Rezoning to a higher density might attract a better project,
but the City should focus on getting grants to fix our existing infrastructure.
She asked the Board to please share what the City is negotiating.
Aldermen John Allen said that he would like to speak. He wanted to clarify that
PUD does not equate to high density. Preservation of open space is done much
better in the PUD district. The Board is not negotiating; they offer opinions
on the proposed plan. R-20 will still cause traffic problems, and they are only
required to have two points of ingress and egress. He said he would rather have
slightly more dwelling units and three entrances/exits. He said he wished
everyone would understand the decision on not binary; there are many different
ways to work with the developers.
 
   Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller read the ethics statement.  
Alderman Lombardi stated that he wished to recuse himself from item H. 1., the
dedication of the road in Rivermist, because he is the president of the
Rivermist HOA. Alderman Alt motioned to recuse Alderman Lombardi. Alderman
Allen seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.
Approval of Agenda
Alderman Lombardi made a motion to approve the agenda as presented. Alderman
Carroll seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.
 
Approval of Consent Agenda- Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller summarized the items on the
Consent Agenda.
Minutes of the Closed Session Board of Aldermen Meeting November 8, 2022
Minutes of the Board of Aldermen Regular Meeting November 10, 2022
Capital Projects Ordinance-Shoreline Stabilization
 
Special Recognition-None
 
Agenda
Alderman Lombardi recused himself from considering and voting on this matter.
Attorney Raymond DiGuiseppe represented the Rivermist Property Owner's
Association. He explained that the portion of the road on the side of the
clubhouse was never dedicated to the City. The street is identified as Flank
Court and extends straight to a cul-de-sac. The 60-foot cul-de-sac is not
included in the dedication nor the parking areas for the clubhouse. Ms. Dutton
reported that the Public Services Director, Tom Stanley, had inspected the road
and was comfortable assuming responsibility for its maintenance. Attorney
Norwood Blanchard stated he was comfortable with the language in the deed of
dedication. Alderman Allen motioned to approve the Resolution in Support of
Accepting the Flank Court and agreed to the Deed of Dedication. Alderman Davis
seconded the motion. All ayes, except for Alderman Lombardi, who was recused.
Motion carried.
Interim City Manager Bonnie Therrien introduced the request from two residents
to abandon an alleyway. She said that nothing final was to be decided; other
steps must be taken, including publishing the Intent to Abandon the Alleyway
and contacting adjacent property owners. So far, no department heads were
opposed to abandoning the alley. Mr. Gaines Brown approached the podium to
speak on behalf of the proposal. He explained that after the last storm, there
were trees and branches all over the ground and leaning onto other trees in the
alley. He would like permission to maintain it but not use it actively. It will
remain a natural/green area. There was some discussion about the types of
easements on the property. Currently, the alley is a vacant wooded area.
Typically, the abandoned property would get divided down the center, and those
properties on either side would absorb each side. Ms. Therrien said this
sometimes happens when property owners don't pay their taxes, and the City gets
the property. Alderman Allen motioned to send the item to the Planning Board
for further review before making any decisions. Aldermen Carroll and Davis
seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.  
The Development Services Director reviewed the request for the final plat
approval for a Southport Crossings outparcel. The Southport Crossings project
is vested under the previous ordinance. Staff requested the Board of Aldermen
approve the final plat with three conditions. Alderman Allen approved the final
plat for Southport Crossings with the following conditions:
a. The Plat should not be signed for recordation until a performance guarantee,
and a bond is received and accepted by the City of Southport staff for all
roadways;
b. The Plat will not be signed for recordation until Brunswick County Utilities
has inspected and certified the water and wastewater infrastructure and signed
the plat;
c. The Plat shall not be signed for recordation until all required certificates
are in conformance with the applicable standards of the Unified Development
Ordinance and have been signed by the appropriate parties.
Alderman Carroll seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.
4.   Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller explained that the Cape Fear Council of
Governments has requested
a City representative and alternate to represent the City in regional programs
and discussions.   Mayor Hatem has been serving as the main representative, and
Mayor Pro-tem is the alternate. Alderman Allen motioned to appoint Mayor Hatem
as the primary representative and Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller to remain the
alternate. Alderman Lombardi seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.  
 
Manager's Report
Bonnie Therrien, the Interim Manager, asked the Aldermen to provide her with a
list of dates they are not available. Many workshops are needed, and she wants
to start scheduling them. Ms. Therrien also explained that she and the staff
had been putting together a capital projects list to help keep up with
everything. A copy of the list was provided at their seats. The Police
Department has hired one new officer.
 
Committee Reports
Alderman Allen reported the Planning Board had conducted interviews for the
full position and would bring the recommendation to the Board of Aldermen at
the January meeting. He thanked Ms. Therrien for the spreadsheet. The Planning
Board review committee meeting will be meeting next Wednesday to review the
proposed project at 115 N. Howe Street. The regular Planning Board meeting is
next Thursday, December 15, 2022.
Alderman Carroll praised Randy Jones for his success and efforts with the 4 th
of July Committee. He said he is glad to be a part of the committee. The
Historic Preservation Commission met the previous Wednesday evening. He said
Mr. Charles Drew was selected as the Commission Chair, and Mr. Rick Pukenas is
the Vice-Chair. The Commission also made good progress with the Rules of
Procedure.
Alderman Alt reported that MOTSU was no longer interested in pursuing the City
property at Sunny Point. All the easements and restrictions remain on the
property regarding the activities at MOTSU.
Alderman Davis said that it was the season for all the Christmas trees. The
tree at the federal Capital is from the Pisgah National Forest in North
Carolina. They call it the People's Tree, adorned with over 7,000 ornaments
made by school children. The Forestry Committee meets the following Tuesday,
and the Parks and Recreation Committee meets next week.
Alderman Lombardi said that the Beautification Committee had not scheduled any
clean-ups or meetings because of the holidays. They have worked hard with the
help of the Public Services Department to get the Christmas decorations up
around the City.
 
Mayor's Report
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller commented, "the Mayor and "First Lady" send their very
best wishes to everyone for a Merry Christmas and a safe and Happy New Year. We
are so very blessed to live in Southport. Feeling gratitude and not expressing
it is like wrapping a present and not giving it to anyone. So, I would like to
take a moment to say thank you. As citizens of Southport, we are indebted to
the talented individuals that work for the City. With humility, we recognize
that we can never repay you for all the countless, unseen things you do for the
good of the City and its citizens. Whether it's Public Services that keep our
City running or our Police and Fire Departments that keep us safe, or Community
Relations and Parks and Recreation that help to maintain our culture.
Our City is blessed with committed individuals that work here. Also, when I
look around this room, I see neighbors that share their time and talents, day
to day, for the benefit of the City they love. The spirit of volunteerism
within our community appears boundless, whether it's the Beautification
Committee planting bulbs or helping to spread Christmas cheer or the Forestry
Committee helping to watch over our beloved trees, or the kindness of neighbors
checking in on neighbors. I am so very proud to be a part of the community that
you all live in. For all these reasons, Southport is an awesome place to call
home. And please don't forget to take a moment and visit the Southport Garden
Club's Candy Cane Garden at Keziah Park; it's guaranteed to make you smile!"
 
Board Comments
Alderman Allen encouraged the public to participate or make donations to the
Shop with a Cop program with the Southport Police Department. He also said that
he would like the Board to consider scheduling a second Regular meeting each
month, which would be more of a workshop session. He wished everyone Happy
Holidays!
Alderman Carroll thanked the Southport Fire Department for including the Board
in the annual awards banquet. He heard some amazing stories and met some
wonderful people. He is grateful for the first responders. Alderman Carroll
said he is so happy that Bonnie Therrien is with the City. He emphasized that
the Board is here to serve the public. He invited anyone with concerns or
questions to call or email him.
Alderman Alt stated that he agrees with Alderman Allen about having a second
meeting. The Fire Department banquet was a tremendous event. There was a young
lady in high school that received a certificate for having more volunteer hours
than most of the others. Overall, it was an impressive group of people.
Alderman Davis said that 200 years ago, Clark Clement Moore wrote, "Twas the
Night Before Christmas." She said she would conclude the meeting in the same
way, "Merry Christmas to all, and to all a goodnight!"
Alderman Lombardi said he enjoyed the Fire Department banquet, too. He wished
everyone a safe and happy holiday.
 
Adjourn
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller said that the meeting was concluded. After a motion
made by Alderman Allen and seconded by Alderman Carroll, Mayor Pro-tem
Mosteller adjourned the meeting at 7:37 p.m. All ayes. Motion carried.
 
 
                     _______________________________________
                      Joseph P. Hatem, MD, MPH.
                     Mayor, City of Southport
 
 
______________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
2023
JANUARY 12, 2023
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
Board of Aldermen Regular Meeting Minutes
January 12, 2023
1011 N. Howe Street
Southport Fire Department
6:00 p.m.
 
Present:
    Mayor Hatem, Mayor Pro Tem Karen Mosteller, Aldermen Thomas Lombardi, Rich
Alt, Lowe Davis, Robert Carroll, and John Allen
 
Staff Present:   Bonnie Therrien, Interim City Manager
   Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
   Randy Jones, Communications/Tourism Director
   ChyAnn Ketchum, Communications and Public Information Officer
   Heather Hemphill, Parks and Recreation Director
   Kate Marshall, Animal Control
   Travis Henley, Director of Development Services
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   Todd Coring, Police Chief
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
   Tom Stanley, Public Services Director
   Ellie Pittenger, Electrical Superintendent
   Tony Burke, Police Major
   
Others Present: Norwood Blanchard III, Tish Hatem, Will Hewett, Sue Hodgin,
Renee Spencer with Star News Online, Eliot Duke with the State Port Pilot, Dr.
Herstine, and many other interested citizens attended.
 
Meetings are open to the public. Complete audio/video is available on the
City's website or can
be requested from the City Clerk's office.
Call to Order
Mayor Hatem called the meeting to order at 6:03 p.m. He welcomed everyone to
the meeting and thanked the Fire/EMS Department for hosting the meeting.
Invocation
Fire Chief Charles Drew provided the invocation.
Pledge of Allegiance
Mayor Hatem led the pledge of allegiance.
 
Presentation:
Parks and Recreation Master Plan. Parks and Recreation Director Heather
Hemphill introduced Dr. Herstine. Dr. Herstine has been a professor at NC State
University and UNC Wilmington. He was the Parks and Recreation Director in
Chapel Hill and the District Manager for DCM/CAMA in Wilmington. Dr. Herstine
completed the most recent Master Plan and will review the study's most
important findings. The master plan is a vital, living document that guides and
directs what the Parks and Recreation department does for the upcoming years
and is created using public input. Dr. Herstine reported the five most
important facilities the public asked for were sidewalks, bike lanes, an indoor
swimming pool, an outdoor pool, and hiking paths. These projects could be
funded through grants, private sources, bond referendums, or tax increases. Dr.
Herstine recommends that the City add a Parks and Recreation maintenance
division and reclassify the program specialist to Senior Citizen Program
Specialist. A full-time supervisor position should also be added, as a youth
programs specialist. The Parks and Recreation Master Plan is not a financial
document, it is a planning tool, and no funding is committed upon adoption of
the plan.
Mayor Hatem thanked Dr. Herstine for the presentation and asked the public to
come forward to ask questions. Brian Stevens, a resident of Cades Cove, asked
why the kayak launch wasn't listed in the master plan. And he also asked if the
plan harmonized well with other potential trails that will be built in the
area, including the Gullah Geechee trail. Heather Hemphill explained the kayak
launch wasn't specifically listed as a priority from the public, but also,
because it has already been planned and funded, there was no need to include it
in the master plan. The master plan focused on possible facilities inside the
City limits but welcomed the connectivity that other trail systems would
provide.
A resident who did not provide her name, asked when the survey was available to
the public. She said she has lived in Southport for four years and hasn't heard
of any survey. She stated that she would greatly benefit from the swimming pool
facility.
Bob Menches, a resident of 406 Clarendon Avenue, suggested that swimming pool
projects are large and typically work best when built cooperatively with
another group or municipality. Mr. Menches added that there are currently no
18-hole disc golf courses in Brunswick County. It takes between half an acre
and an acre per hole. NC is 4 th in the County with registered disc golfers.
Usually, a disc golf trail includes a nature trail.
Public Comment: 
The City Clerk explained that several people signed up to speak about swimming
pools, but she will call them to speak now during the Public Comment period.
Mary Gibson was called first. She represented the Small Business Disaster
Assistance. She explained that local businesses might be eligible for
assistance from damages during Hurricane Ian. August is the deadline to apply
for low-interest loans. Interested parties can apply online at
disasterassistance.sba.gov
Pat Kirkman, a resident at 119 Park Avenue, approached the podium. She read
through a list of City-sponsored boards and committees and how many members
served on each. There are 58 citizen volunteers who are not getting paid. She
pleaded that maybe the time has come to consider creating a Cemetery Commission
of seven members. No one will expect to get paid.
Sherol Lappala stated that the only community pool was in Bolivia. She said a
pool could be built where the old gym is, but the lot is so small. Southport
already has so many pressing issues, that the best opportunity for a new pool
facility is to coordinate with Oak Island, Boiling Springs Lakes, or the
County.
Kelly Helbig is the founder and volunteer of the Jack Helbig Foundation. Their
mission is to prevent drowning. She said there is a huge need for water-based
recreational programming. The foundation is willing to help support the
project.
Dr. Paul Armstrong couldn't attend the meeting, so Sherol Lappala read his
letter to the Board. He stated that being active limits medical needs. The need
to drive across the County to the community pool limits many from benefiting
from the facility.
 
    Mayor Hatem read the ethics statement.  
Approval of Agenda
Alderman Davis made a motion to approve the agenda as presented. Alderman
Carroll seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.
 
Approval of Consent Agenda- Mayor Hatem summarized the items on the Consent
Agenda.
Minutes of the Board of Aldermen Regular Meeting December 9, 2022
Minutes of the Closed Session Board of Aldermen Meeting December 21, 2022
 
Special Recognition-Mayor Hatem stated that the march in remembrance of Dr.
Martin Luther King, Jr. was scheduled for Sunday, January 15, 2023 at 1:00 p.m.
at the Southport Fire Department. He asked Mr. Rhonda Davis to come up to the
podium while he read the proclamation in honor of Dr. King and presented her
with a copy.
 
I.) Agenda
Mayor Hatem explained the first item on the agenda is the consideration of the
contract with Wooten Engineering for services on the USDA sewer project. Mr.
Walter Gross was asked to address the Board. He stated the USDA project was
crucial to Southport's sewer system. There is a lot of rainwater and
groundwater siphoning into the system that the City is paying to treat. They
are ready to start the project once the contract is approved. Alderman Alt
mentioned that Wooten bailed out the City with the Asset Management Plan. He
added that the engineering firm is very easy to work with. He had some
questions at first but has gone through the City Manager's office. Mayor Pro-
tem Mosteller motioned to approve the contract with Wooten for the USDA project
and authorize the City Manager and Mayor to execute any documents. Alderman
Lombardi seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.  
Next on the agenda was the Resolution Adopting the Parks and Recreation Master
Plan. City Manager Therrien reiterated that adoption is important so the City
can start applying for grants. She thanked Dr. Herstine for his work on the
master plan. Alderman Davis agreed that the plan adoption was important for
grant applications, but she would also like a call to action regarding the
swimming pool. Mayor Hatem said the pool could be a separate item to consider
at the Board workshops.
Alderman Allen stated his thanks for the work and effort put into the plan. It
is an aspirational plan only, and certain parts cause some concern. Every
detail doesn't have to be hashed out before it is adopted. The plan can be
approved tonight, but it is not set in stone. Adopting the plan does not commit
the City to fund all the items in the plan. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller motioned to
approve the Master Parks and Recreation Plan as an aspirational plan. Alderman
Davis seconded the motion. All ayes, motion carried. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller
thanked Dr. Herstine and Heather Hemphill for all their work.
Mayor Hatem explained that the ABC Board interviewed a total of (7) candidates
for appointment on the ABC Board. The local ABC Board recommends the
reappointment of Zach Zuelhke for a new term. They also recommended Adam
Steadman and Ryan Morgan for the two new positions. Alderman Alt motioned
instead to reappoint Mr. Zuelhke, Adam Steadman, and James Poppe. Alderman
Davis seconded the motion. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller commented that the 22-23
budget equals $550,000. The continued growth rate is a measure of the current
ABC Board and its success. She recommends appointing the people that the
existing Board recommended . Alderman Carroll stated that this process started
in May. He needed to learn more about how the local Board operated. Alderman
Carroll apologized for how he acted at the May meeting. He agrees that Jim
Poppe is a great candidate for the Board. Alderman Carroll seconded Alderman
Alt's motion. There was some discussion about whether the ABC employees have
been given copies of the Rules of Procedures. Mayor Hatem called for a vote
again. Alderman Alt, Alderman Carroll, Alderman Davis, and Alderman Lombardi
voted to appoint Zach Zuelhke, Adam Steadman, and James Poppe. Alderman Allen
and Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller voted for Zach Zuelhke, Adam Steadman, and Ryan
Morgan. Majority rules. Motion carries.
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller stated that the Planning Board had conducted interviews
to fill their City-full position. She said the Planning Board recommends
appointing Fred Fiss to the position, as he has served as an alternate. His
knowledge and experience are invaluable. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller formally
motioned to appoint Fred Fiss to the position. Alderman Carroll seconded the
motion. All ayes. Motion carried.   Alderman Carroll seconded the motion. All
ayes. Motion carried.  Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller   offered a special thanks to
all the volunteers who stepped forward. There are limited positions, but it is
critical that citizens attend and participate.
5.   Mayor Hatem explained that he has been serving as the voting delegate for
the NCLM, and he would like to continue if there are no objections. Alderman
Allen motioned to appoint Mayor Hatem as the voting delegate for the NCLM.
Alderman Davis seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.
6. Dredging has not been completed in the Yacht Basin area since the 1990s.
There is a need to have the area dredged to allow for safe passage along the
navigable waters and the City dock area. The first step is to have the area
surveyed. There is an option to coordinate the actual dredging with the marina.
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller motioned to authorize the use of Parks and Recreation
funding and City funding to complete surveying the Yacht Basin area. Alderman
Davis and Alderman Allen seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.
7. City Manager Bonnie Therrien explained that she had been asked to
investigate a meal tax. The General Assembly must approve the additional tax.
If approved, the Resolution will be sent to the representatives. It is not
required to hold a referendum, but usually, the General Assembly requests a
referendum before they will approve it. Alderman  Lombardi made a motion to
approve the Resolution in support of requesting a one percent meal tax.
Alderman Carroll and Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller. All ayes, motion carried.
8. Ms. Therrien stated that scheduling several Board workshops is necessary.
The Board hears from all the departments and discusses the City issues and
priorities. There is a list of dates included in the packet. January 17 are the
interviews for the new City Attorney. January 19 is a team-building workshop in
the morning, followed by strategic planning in the afternoon.
There will also be a workshop to discuss rights-of-way. In addition, Alderman
Allen has made the recommendation before to schedule an additional regular
board workshop to review the agenda before the meetings. City staff has
reserved the Fridays before the Regular Board meetings, but the Board should
give some direction about what time to schedule. Alderman Carroll suggested
starting the meetings at 9:00 a.m. Alderman Alt explained that at least six
ongoing projects involving the sewer system. All the projects are tied
together, so he proposes hosting a public meeting to educate the public about
all the projects and how they are connected.
9. Interim City Manager Bonnie Therrien discussed the search for a new City
attorney. The City received four proposals from interested firms. City staff
can interview the four attorneys and narrow it down to two before the Board
interviews. Or the Board can interview all four. Alderman Davis proposed to let
Staff interview the attorneys first. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller and Alderman Allen
said they would rather ask questions of all four, and Mayor Hatem agreed. Most
of the Board agreed and asked the City Clerk to publish the notice.
10. Next on the agenda was a discussion about the electrical service for the
Osprey Landing subdivision. Ellie Pittenger, the electrical superintendent, was
asked to come forward with questions. Ms. Therrien explained that historically
it seems the City has paid for the system upgrades. No ordinance dictates who
is responsible. Mr. Pittenger added that there are between 180-296 homes in
total. Those properties will be the City's customers, so eventually, the City
will get its money back. Interim Manager asked the Board for a motion to
approve investing $189,000 now because the cost of the materials will increase.
Ms. Therrien asked Ellie Pittenger if that was all that was needed or if a
cushion should be added. Mr. Pittenger explained that the $189,000 was his
calculation, and he always adds extra room for unexpected costs. Alderman
Carroll motioned to invest $189,000 in the  electrical upgrades for Osprey
Landing. Alderman Lombardi seconded the motion. Alderman Davis was the only one
opposed. Motion carried.
11. There has been a lot of discussion about relocating the Southport Police
Department to a new location because there is not enough space at City Hall.
Interim City Manager Bonnie Therrien explained that the visibility of the
Police Department is not good. In addition, the other Staff located in City
Hall are also in need of more space. Before anything is done, a feasibility
study should be completed to plan out the City's space needs over the next
twenty years. One company was referred to us. They are proposing $48,000 to
conduct the study plus expenses. That is a very good price. Because it is a
contract, the City does not have to go out for bids. Alderman Alt remarked that
building a police department is a lot different than building a City Hall
because of the extra security features that are required. Alderman Alt motioned
to move  forward with the RFP for a feasibility study with an amount not to
exceed $50,000 using funding from the Police department and City Hall. Alderman
Carroll seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried. Ms. Therrien thanked the
Police Department for all their help.
12. Development Services Director Travis Henley explained the Historic
Preservation Commission Rules of Procedure that the commission drafted. They
were able to use some other regional rules as a guideline. Mr. Henley asked the
Board if they would consider adopting them. After a motion made by Aldermen
Carroll and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller, the  Board approved the Rules
of Procedure for the Historic Preservation Commission. All ayes. Motion
carried.
13. Interim Manager Bonnie Therrien stated that Olsen Associates were already
awarded the contract for the shoreline stabilization project. The City already
has $5 million in funding. Alderman Allen motioned to authorize the Mayor and
City Manager to sign the contract.  Alderman Carroll and Mayor Pro-tem
Mosteller seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.
 
J.) Manager's Report
Ms. Bonnie Therrien thanked the Fire Department for hosting the Board meeting.
She wanted the public to know that the County was doing its revaluation this
year and notices would be sent out at the beginning of February. A fact sheet
has been placed on the City's website. She thanked ChyAnn Ketchum, the Public
Information Officer, for her putting it all together. Ms. Therrien also wanted
to celebrate several employees for their length of service with the City. Parks
and Recreation Director Heather Hemphill has been with the City for 24 years.
Ellie Pittenger, the Electrical Superintendent, has served the City for 20
years, and Randy Jones has served seven consecutive years.
 
K.) Committee Reports
Aldermen Alt stated that he and Ellie Pittenger would be attending the
municipal power meeting soon, and electrical rates for Southport would be
discussed soon.
Alderman Davis stated that the Forestry Committee met, and (12) trees were
delivered to Taylor Field. Also, the Forestry Committee received a donation of
$750. In the February newsletter, there is an article describing the Live Oak
Society.
Alderman Lombardi reported that the Beautification Committee moved the
Christmas decorations to storage bins and pruned the shrubs. He thanked the
volunteers.
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller reminded the public that the Planning Board would meet
on January 19 at the Indian Trail Meeting Hall. The Parks and Recreation
Committee meets on the second Tuesday of each month.
 L.) Mayor's Report
Mayor Hatem thanked City Staff for a good meeting. He thanked the Fire
Department for hosting the meeting, as well as Community Relations and the City
Clerk. He was proud that Dosher Memorial Hospital received a four-star rating
recently. He reminded the public of the Martin Luther King, Jr. memorial march
and program scheduled for 1:00 p.m. at the Southport Fire Department.
M.) All staff reports were included in the Board packet.
N.) Board Comments
Alderman Davis asked the Board to consider meeting to discuss and take action
regarding the City's cemeteries. Mayor Hatem suggested that the cemeteries be
discussed at one of the Board workshops.
Alderman Lombardi thanked Ms. Therrien for getting projects going.
O.) Closed Session:
Per NCGS 143-318.11 (a) 6. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller made a motion to move into
closed session, which was seconded by Alderman Carroll. All ayes. Motion
carried. The open meeting was closed at 8:25 p.m.
 
P.) Resumption of Open Meeting and Adjourn
Once the Closed session ended , the Regular Board of Aldermen was resumed at 8:
55 p.m., following a motion to resume by Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller and seconded
by Alderman Allen. All ayes. Motion carried.
Alderman Carroll motioned to appoint Interim City Manager Bonnie Therrien to
the official City Manager position ending on June 30, 2024; with a salary of
$145,000 a year, four weeks of vacation, and two weeks of sick time. Alderman
Carroll included in his motion to create an Assistant Manager position with a
salary not to exceed $91,325 a year. Ms. Therrien will also receive the travel
allowance and other benefits as specified in her contract. Mayor Pro-tem
Mosteller seconded the motion as stated. All ayes, motion carried.
Adjourn
Alderman Allen motioned to adjourn the meeting, which Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller
seconded. All ayes. Motion carried. Mayor Hatem adjourned the meeting at 8:59
p.m. 
 
                     _______________________________________
                      Karen Mosteller, Mayor Pro-tem
                     City of Southport
 
______________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
Assistant City Manager
 
Board of Aldermen Regular Meeting Minutes
January 12, 2023
1011 N. Howe Street
Southport Fire Department
6:00 p.m.
 
Present:    Mayor Hatem, Mayor Pro Tem Karen Mosteller, Aldermen Thomas
Lombardi, Rich Alt, Lowe Davis, Robert Carroll, and John Allen
 
Staff Present:   Bonnie Therrien, Interim City Manager
   Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
   Randy Jones, Communications/Tourism Director
   ChyAnn Ketchum, Communications and Public Information Officer
   Heather Hemphill, Parks and Recreation Director
   Kate Marshall, Animal Control
   Travis Henley, Director of Development Services
Charles Drew, Fire Chief
Todd Coring, Police Chief
Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
Tom Stanley, Public Services Director
Ellie Pittenger, Electrical Superintendent
Tony Burke, Police Major
   
Others Present: Norwood Blanchard III, Tish Hatem, Will Hewett, Sue Hodgin,
Renee Spencer with Star News Online, Eliot Duke with the State Port Pilot, Dr.
Herstine, and many other interested citizens attended.
 
Meetings are open to the public. Complete audio/video is available on the
City's website or can
be requested from the City Clerk's office.
 
Mayor Hatem called the meeting to order at 6:03 p.m. He welcomed everyone to
the meeting and thanked the Fire/EMS Department for hosting the meeting.
 
Fire Chief Charles Drew provided the invocation.
 
Mayor Hatem led the pledge of allegiance.
 
Presentation: Parks and Recreation Master Plan. Parks and Recreation Director
Heather Hemphill introduced Dr. Herstine. Dr. Herstine has been a professor at
NC State University and UNC Wilmington. He was the Parks and Recreation
Director in Chapel Hill and the District Manager for DCM/CAMA in Wilmington.
Dr. Herstine completed the most recent Master Plan and will review the study's
most important findings. The master plan is a vital, living document that
guides and directs what the Parks and Recreation department does for the
upcoming years and is created using public input. Dr. Herstine reported the
five most important facilities the public asked for were sidewalks, bike lanes,
an indoor swimming pool, an outdoor pool, and hiking paths. These projects
could be funded through grants, private sources, bond referendums, or tax
increases. Dr. Herstine recommends that the City add a Parks and Recreation
maintenance division and reclassify the program specialist to Senior Citizen
Program Specialist. A full-time supervisor position should also be added, as a
youth programs specialist. The Parks and Recreation Master Plan is not a
financial document, it is a planning tool, and no funding is committed upon
adoption of the plan.
Mayor Hatem thanked Dr. Herstine for the presentation and asked the public to
come forward to ask questions. Brian Stevens, a resident of Cades Cove, asked
why the kayak launch wasn't listed in the master plan. And he also asked if the
plan harmonized well with other potential trails that will be built in the
area, including the Gullah Geechee trail. Heather Hemphill explained the kayak
launch wasn't specifically listed as a priority from the public, but also,
because it has already been planned and funded, there was no need to include it
in the master plan. The master plan focused on possible facilities inside the
City limits but welcomed the connectivity that other trail systems would
provide.
A resident who did not provide her name, asked when the survey was available to
the public. She said she has lived in Southport for four years and hasn't heard
of any survey. She stated that she would greatly benefit from the swimming pool
facility.
Bob Menches, a resident of 406 Clarendon Avenue, suggested that swimming pool
projects are large and typically work best when built cooperatively with
another group or municipality. Mr. Menches added that there are currently no
18-hole disc golf courses in Brunswick County. It takes between half an acre
and an acre per hole. NC is 4 th in the County with registered disc golfers.
Usually, a disc golf trail includes a nature trail.
 
Public Comment: The City Clerk explained that several people signed up to speak
about swimming pools, but she will call them to speak now during the Public
Comment period. Mary Gibson was called first. She represented the Small
Business Disaster Assistance. She explained that local businesses might be
eligible for assistance from damages during Hurricane Ian. August is the
deadline to apply for low-interest loans. Interested parties can apply online
at disasterassistance.sba.gov
Pat Kirkman, a resident at 119 Park Avenue, approached the podium. She read
through a list of City-sponsored boards and committees and how many members
served on each. There are 58 citizen volunteers who are not getting paid. She
pleaded that maybe the time has come to consider creating a Cemetery Commission
of seven members. No one will expect to get paid.
Sherol Lappala stated that the only community pool was in Bolivia. She said a
pool could be built where the old gym is, but the lot is so small. Southport
already has so many pressing issues, that the best opportunity for a new pool
facility is to coordinate with Oak Island, Boiling Springs Lakes, or the
County.
Kelly Helbig is the founder and volunteer of the Jack Helbig Foundation. Their
mission is to prevent drowning. She said there is a huge need for water-based
recreational programming. The foundation is willing to help support the
project.
Dr. Paul Armstrong couldn't attend the meeting, so Sherol Lappala read his
letter to the Board. He stated that being active limits medical needs. The need
to drive across the County to the community pool limits many from benefiting
from the facility.
 
    Mayor Hatem read the ethics statement.  
Approval of Agenda
Alderman Davis made a motion to approve the agenda as presented. Alderman
Carroll seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.
 
Approval of Consent Agenda- Mayor Hatem summarized the items on the Consent
Agenda.
Minutes of the Board of Aldermen Regular Meeting December 9, 2022
Minutes of the Closed Session Board of Aldermen Meeting December 21, 2022
 
Special Recognition-Mayor Hatem stated that the march in remembrance of Dr.
Martin Luther King, Jr. was scheduled for Sunday, January 15, 2023 at 1:00 p.m.
at the Southport Fire Department. He asked Mr. Rhonda Davis to come up to the
podium while he read the proclamation in honor of Dr. King and presented her
with a copy.
 
I.) Agenda
Mayor Hatem explained the first item on the agenda is the consideration of the
contract with Wooten Engineering for services on the USDA sewer project. Mr.
Walter Gross was asked to address the Board. He stated the USDA project was
crucial to Southport's sewer system. There is a lot of rainwater and
groundwater siphoning into the system that the City is paying to treat. They
are ready to start the project once the contract is approved. Alderman Alt
mentioned that Wooten bailed out the City with the Asset Management Plan. He
added that the engineering firm is very easy to work with. He had some
questions at first but has gone through the City Manager's office. Mayor Pro-
tem Mosteller motioned to approve the contract with Wooten for the USDA project
and authorize the City Manager and Mayor to execute any documents. Alderman
Lombardi seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.  
Next on the agenda was the Resolution Adopting the Parks and Recreation Master
Plan. City Manager Therrien reiterated that adoption is important so the City
can start applying for grants. She thanked Dr. Herstine for his work on the
master plan. Alderman Davis agreed that the plan adoption was important for
grant applications, but she would also like a call to action regarding the
swimming pool. Mayor Hatem said the pool could be a separate item to consider
at the Board workshops.
Alderman Allen stated his thanks for the work and effort put into the plan. It
is an aspirational plan only, and certain parts cause some concern. Every
detail doesn't have to be hashed out before it is adopted. The plan can be
approved tonight, but it is not set in stone. Adopting the plan does not commit
the City to fund all the items in the plan. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller motioned to
approve the Master Parks and Recreation Plan as an aspirational plan. Alderman
Davis seconded the motion. All ayes, motion carried. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller
thanked Dr. Herstine and Heather Hemphill for all their work.
Mayor Hatem explained that the ABC Board interviewed a total of (7) candidates
for appointment on the ABC Board. The local ABC Board recommends the
reappointment of Zach Zuelhke for a new term. They also recommended Adam
Steadman and Ryan Morgan for the two new positions. Alderman Alt motioned
instead to reappoint Mr. Zuelhke, Adam Steadman, and James Poppe. Alderman
Davis seconded the motion. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller commented that the 22-23
budget equals $550,000. The continued growth rate is a measure of the current
ABC Board and its success. She recommends appointing the people that the
existing Board recommended . Alderman Carroll stated that this process started
in May. He needed to learn more about how the local Board operated. Alderman
Carroll apologized for how he acted at the May meeting. He agrees that Jim
Poppe is a great candidate for the Board. Alderman Carroll seconded Alderman
Alt's motion. There was some discussion about whether the ABC employees have
been given copies of the Rules of Procedures. Mayor Hatem called for a vote
again. Alderman Alt, Alderman Carroll, Alderman Davis, and Alderman Lombardi
voted to appoint Zach Zuelhke, Adam Steadman, and James Poppe. Alderman Allen
and Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller voted for Zach Zuelhke, Adam Steadman, and Ryan
Morgan. Majority rules. Motion carries.
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller stated that the Planning Board had conducted interviews
to fill their City-full position. She said the Planning Board recommends
appointing Fred Fiss to the position, as he has served as an alternate. His
knowledge and experience are invaluable. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller formally
motioned to appoint Fred Fiss to the position. Alderman Carroll seconded the
motion. All ayes. Motion carried.   Alderman Carroll seconded the motion. All
ayes. Motion carried.  Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller   offered a special thanks to
all the volunteers who stepped forward. There are limited positions, but it is
critical that citizens attend and participate.
5.   Mayor Hatem explained that he has been serving as the voting delegate for
the NCLM, and he
would like to continue if there are no objections. Alderman Allen motioned to
appoint Mayor Hatem as the voting delegate for the NCLM. Alderman Davis
seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.
6. Dredging has not been completed in the Yacht Basin area since the 1990s.
There is a need to
have the area dredged to allow for safe passage along the navigable waters and
the City dock area. The first step is to have the area surveyed. There is an
option to coordinate the actual dredging with the marina. Mayor Pro-tem
Mosteller motioned to authorize the use of Parks and Recreation funding and
City funding to complete surveying the Yacht Basin area. Alderman Davis and
Alderman Allen seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.
7. City Manager Bonnie Therrien explained that she had been asked to
investigate a meal tax.
          The General Assembly must approve the additional tax. If approved,
the Resolution
will be sent to the representatives. It is not required to hold a referendum,
but
usually, the General Assembly requests a referendum before they will approve
it. Alderman
Lombardi made a motion to approve the Resolution in support of requesting a one
percent
meal tax. Alderman Carroll and Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller. All ayes, motion
carried.
8. Ms. Therrien stated that scheduling several Board workshops is necessary.
The Board
hears from all the departments and discusses the City issues and priorities.
There is a list of
dates included in the packet. January 17 are the interviews for the new City
Attorney. January
19 is a team-building workshop in the morning, followed by strategic planning
in the
afternoon.
There will also be a workshop to discuss rights-of-way. In addition, Alderman
Allen has
made the recommendation before to schedule an additional regular board workshop
to review
the agenda before the meetings. City staff has reserved the Fridays before the
Regular Board
meetings, but the Board should give some direction about what time to schedule.
Alderman
Carroll suggested starting the meetings at 9:00 a.m.
Alderman Alt explained that at least six ongoing projects involving the sewer
system. All the projects are tied together, so he proposes hosting a public
meeting to educate
the public about all the projects and how they are connected.
9. Interim City Manager Bonnie Therrien discussed the search for a new City
attorney. The City
received four proposals from interested firms. City staff can interview the
four attorneys and
narrow it down to two before the Board interviews. Or the Board can interview
all four.
Alderman Davis proposed to let Staff interview the attorneys first. Mayor Pro-
tem Mosteller
and Alderman Allen said they would rather ask questions of all four, and Mayor
Hatem
agreed. Most of the Board agreed and asked the City Clerk to publish the
notice.
10. Next on the agenda was a discussion about the electrical service for the
Osprey Landing
subdivision. Ellie Pittenger, the electrical superintendent, was asked to come
forward with
questions. Ms. Therrien explained that historically it seems the City has paid
for the system
upgrades. No ordinance dictates who is responsible. Mr. Pittenger added that
there
are between 180-296 homes in total. Those properties will be the City's
customers, so
eventually, the City will get its money back. Interim Manager asked the Board
for a motion to
approve investing $189,000 now because the cost of the materials will increase.
Ms. Therrien
asked Ellie Pittenger if that was all that was needed or if a cushion should be
added. Mr.
Pittenger explained that the $189,000 was his calculation, and he always adds
extra room
for unexpected costs. Alderman Carroll motioned to invest $189,000 in the
electrical upgrades for Osprey Landing. Alderman Lombardi seconded the motion.
Alderman Davis was the only one opposed. Motion carried.
11. There has been a lot of discussion about relocating the Southport Police
Department to a new
location because there is not enough space at City Hall. Interim City Manager
Bonnie Therrien
explained that the visibility of the Police Department is not good. In
addition, the other Staff
located in City Hall are also in need of more space. Before anything is done, a
feasibility study
should be completed to plan out the City's space needs over the next twenty
years. One
company was referred to us. They are proposing $48,000 to conduct the study
plus expenses.
That is a very good price. Because it is a contract, the City does not have to
go out for bids.
Alderman Alt remarked that building a police department is a lot different than
building a City
Hall because of the extra security features that are required. Alderman Alt
motioned to move
forward with the RFP for a feasibility study with an amount not to exceed
$50,000 using
funding from the Police department and City Hall. Alderman Carroll seconded the
motion.
All ayes. Motion carried. Ms. Therrien thanked the Police Department for all
their help.
12. Development Services Director Travis Henley explained the Historic
Preservation Commission
Rules of Procedure that the commission drafted. They were able to use some
other
regional rules as a guideline. Mr. Henley asked the Board if they would
consider adopting them.
         After a motion made by Aldermen Carroll and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem
Mosteller, the
Board approved the Rules of Procedure for the Historic Preservation Commission.
All ayes.
Motion carried.
13. Interim Manager Bonnie Therrien stated that Olsen Associates were already
awarded the
contract for the shoreline stabilization project. The City already has $5
million in funding.
         Alderman Allen motioned to authorize the Mayor and City Manager to
sign the contract.
Alderman Carroll and Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller seconded the motion. All ayes.
Motion carried.
 
J.) Manager's Report
Ms. Bonnie Therrien thanked the Fire Department for hosting the Board meeting.
She wanted the public to know that the County was doing its revaluation this
year and notices would be sent out
at the beginning of February. A fact sheet has been placed on the City's
website. She thanked ChyAnn Ketchum, the Public Information Officer, for her
putting it all together. Ms. Therrien also wanted to celebrate several
employees for their length of service with the City. Parks and Recreation
Director Heather Hemphill has been with the City for 24 years. Ellie Pittenger,
the Electrical Superintendent, has served the City for 20 years, and Randy
Jones has served seven consecutive years.
 
K.) Committee Reports
Aldermen Alt stated that he and Ellie Pittenger would be attending the
municipal power meeting soon, and electrical rates for Southport would be
discussed soon.
Alderman Davis stated that the Forestry Committee met, and (12) trees were
delivered to Taylor Field. Also, the Forestry Committee received a donation of
$750. In the February newsletter, there is an article describing the Live Oak
Society.
Alderman Lombardi reported that the Beautification Committee moved the
Christmas decorations to storage bins and pruned the shrubs. He thanked the
volunteers.
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller reminded the public that the Planning Board would meet
on January 19 at the Indian Trail Meeting Hall. The Parks and Recreation
Committee meets on the second Tuesday of each month.
 
L.) Mayor's Report
Mayor Hatem thanked City Staff for a good meeting. He thanked the Fire
Department for hosting the meeting, as well as Community Relations and the City
Clerk. He was proud that Dosher Memorial Hospital received a four-star rating
recently. He reminded the public of the Martin Luther King, Jr. memorial march
and program scheduled for 1:00 p.m. at the Southport Fire Department.
 
M.) All staff reports were included in the Board packet.
 
N.) Board Comments
Alderman Davis asked the Board to consider meeting to discuss and take action
regarding the City's cemeteries. Mayor Hatem suggested that the cemeteries be
discussed at one of the Board workshops.
Alderman Lombardi thanked Ms. Therrien for getting projects going.
 
O.) Closed Session: Per NCGS 143-318.11 (a) 6. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller made a
motion to move into
closed session, which was seconded by Alderman Carroll. All ayes. Motion
carried. The open meeting was closed at 8:25 p.m.
 
P.) Resumption of Open Meeting and Adjourn
Once the Closed session ended , the Regular Board of Aldermen was resumed at 8:
55 p.m., following a motion to resume by Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller and seconded
by Alderman Allen. All ayes. Motion carried.
Alderman Carroll motioned to appoint Interim City Manager Bonnie Therrien to
the official City Manager position ending on June 30, 2024; with a salary of
$145,000 a year, four weeks of vacation, and two weeks of sick time. Alderman
Carroll included in his motion to create an Assistant Manager position with a
salary not to exceed $91,325 a year. Ms. Therrien will also receive the travel
allowance and other benefits as specified in her contract. Mayor Pro-tem
Mosteller seconded the motion as stated. All ayes, motion carried.
Alderman Allen motioned to adjourn the meeting, which Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller
seconded. All ayes. Motion carried. Mayor Hatem adjourned the meeting at 8:59
p.m. 
 
 
 
                     _______________________________________
                      Karen Mosteller, Mayor Pro-tem
                     City of Southport
 
 
______________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
Assistant City Manager
JANUARY 17, 2023
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
BOARD OF ALDERMEN
FIRE DEPARTMENT SUBSTATION ATTORNEY INTERVIEWS
JANUARY 17, 2023
 
PRESENT:
Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor Pro-tem Karen Mosteller; Aldermen Tom Lombardi,
John Allen, Lowe Davis, Robert Carroll, and Rich Alt
STAFF PRESENT:
Bonnie Therrien, City Manager
Dorothy Dutton, Assistant City Manager/City Clerk
Travis Henley, Development Services Director
Call to Order
Mayor Hatem called the special workshop to order at 8:40 a.m.
Finalize Questions
City Manager Bonnie Therrien provided the Board with a list of questions
submitted by the Board and the City Department Heads. The Board divided the
questions up before the first attorney arrived. They would ask the same
questions to each attorney.
 
C)    Attorney Interviews
   The first attorney arrived just before 9:00 a.m. Grady Richardson has been
working with Sunset Beach and St. James for years. He discussed some of his
experiences working with the elected boards, planning boards, and boards of
adjustment in different municipalities. He answered the questions from the
Board concerning his experience in different fields, including land use, law
enforcement, social media, and code violations. Mr. Richardson explained that
his firm is very busy because they do good legal work. In addition, he is
trying to find a work-life balance. His business partner Jennifer Carpenter
would likely attend the Board meetings and act as Southport's primary contact.
Mr. Richardson's normal rate is $525 an hour, but he uses a municipal rate of
$325 for his local government clients. The Board thanked him for the meeting,
and Mr. Richardson thanked the Board for the opportunity.
   Matt Nichols, a practicing attorney in Wilmington, arrived next. Most of his
experience is in land use law, for which he has over twenty years of
experience. He answered the Board of Aldermen questions and explained that he
is the only attorney in his law firm. He has a very experienced paralegal. Mr.
Nichols said that he does not like to offer legal advice in areas that he is
not an expert, so topics like social media and contracts would probably be
referred to a different attorney. Mr. Nichols charges $220 an hour for his
services, and the paralegal's fees are $90 an hour.
He thanked the Board of Aldermen and staff for their time.
   Raymond DiGuiseppe was the next attorney scheduled for an interview. Mr.
DiGuiseppe explained that he was local to Southport. He has experience in land
use, HOAs, POAs, subdivisions, and local ordinances. In addition, he serves
individual/private clients with stormwater issues, CAMA permits, and floodplain
issues. The Board asked Mr. DiGuiseppe the questions. Attorney DiGuiseppe said
that he tries to be prompt when responding. If he cannot help at that moment,
he will estimate when he can get back to us with the information. He also has a
lot of experience reviewing contracts. Because he lives in Southport, his
availability is more flexible. He could attend the Regular Board meeting and
the newly established Board Agenda Review meeting. After reading through the
resume, Mayor Hatem asked Mr. DiGuiseppe about his background in music and
psychology. Raymond DiGuiseppe compared law and music because they are both
interpretive. Psychology is a part of the law because you must understand the
individuals involved and communicate with them. Mr. DiGuiseppe explained his
rate is $200 an hour but negotiable. He could attend meetings for a flat rate
instead of hourly. The Board of Aldermen thanked Mr. DiGuiseppe for meeting
with them, and he thanked City Staff and the Board for their consideration.
   The last scheduled interview was with the Brough Law Firm. They are based
primarily in the Chapel Hill area. In attendance were T.C. Morphis and Brady
Herman. Seven attorneys in the office practice mainly local government and land
use, and they are currently contracted with twenty-three municipalities. They
cover land use, board governance, personnel, contracts, and writing ordinances.
One of the attorneys, Bob Hornik, currently works with Boiling Springs Lakes,
so distance has not presented any issues. The Brough Law Firm takes a team
representation approach, which assigns two attorneys for each municipality.
Their philosophy is to be legal advisors, not dictators, and they serve to
guide and advise the Board through the parameters of the law. By the time Brady
Herman gave his presentation, most of the Board's questions had been answered.
Ms. Therrien asked the attorneys to explain their rates. Currently, the firm
charges $225 an hour and $900 per meeting. The fee for the meeting includes all
travel expenses and is a flat fee regardless of how long the meeting lasts. The
attorneys shook hands with the Board members and thanked them for their
consideration. The Board thanked them for making the drive to meet in person.
D)   Discussion of City Attorney
City Manager Bonnie Therrien asked the Board for their opinions about the
interviews. Everyone agreed that all four firms were very qualified, especially
in land use matters. The two most favored firms were Grady Richardson and the
Brough Law Firm. The Board had more questions for those firms, and Ms. Therrien
agreed to reach out to them and report back to the Board.
E. ) Adjourn
   Mayor Hatem adjourned the meeting at 12:33 p.m., after a motion from
Alderman Carroll and seconded by Alderman Lombardi seconded the motion. All
ayes. Motion carried.
                     _____________________________________
                     Karen Mosteller, Mayor Pro-tem
                     City of Southport
 
__________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
JANUARY 19, 2023
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
BOARD OF ALDERMEN
BOARD TRNG AND STRATEGIC PLANNING INDIAN TRAIL MEETING HALL
JANUARY 19, 2023
 
PRESENT:
Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor Pro-tem Karen Mosteller; Aldermen Tom Lombardi,
John Allen, Robert Carroll, and Rich Alt
ABSENT: Alderman Lowe Davis was not able to attend due to illness.
STAFF PRESENT:
Bonnie Therrien, City Manager
Dorothy Dutton, Assistant City Manager/City Clerk
OTHERS PRESENT FOR THE MORNING:
Vickie Miller, Director of Learning and Development, NCLM
Ann White, Municipal Operations Manager, NCLM
   
Call to Order
Mayor Hatem called the special workshop to order at 8:49 a.m.
Invocation
Mayor Hatem suggested a moment of silence instead of an invocation.
Pledge of Allegiance
Mayor Hatem led everyone in reciting the Pledge of Allegiance.
Approval of Agenda
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller made a motion to approve the agenda as presented.
Alderman
Lombardi seconded. All ayes. Motion carried.
Communication and Team Building
City Manager Bonnie Therrien welcomed the Board and said the first part of the
meeting would be spent training and team building to have better communication
and revisit the Board's responsibilities. Ms. Therrien introduced Vickie
Miller. Ms. Miller is the Director of Learning and Development with the NC
League of Municipalities and has many years of leadership training and
municipal leadership positions.
Ms. Miller explained that they would begin the morning with a question. She
asked the Board to think about why they ran for office. She gave them a few
minutes and also asked them to work in groups of two. The purpose was to
explain to your partner why you ran for office. Then, each Board member would
take turns explaining why their partner ran for office. This icebreaker allowed
the Board to get to know more about each other.
Ms. Miller reviewed what topics she would speak about, including best
practices, data research for Board success, and characteristics of thriving
communities. Ms. Miller explained the five stages of team development: forming,
storming, norming, performing, and adjourning. Most teams follow through the
stages but also can move back during times of conflict. She asked the Board to
think about which stage they are operating from. Most of the Board members
agreed it was between norming and performing, with brief periods back in
storming. Ms. Miller said that all Board members should be able to speak to
each other, but some Board members communicate with the members with similar
thoughts and opinions.
Ms. Miller explained the difference between dialogue and debate. Listening to
argue is not listening fully. Cognitive dissonance is defined as holding two
contradictory beliefs that cause mental discomfort. Cognitive dissonance can be
eliminated by denying one set of information, gaining additional information,
or enacting a change or acceptance.
There are four core components of highly functioning teams. These teams
prioritize communication, manage complexity, identify a vision for the future,
set clear goals, and are persistent in achieving them.
Vickie Miller reviewed the City of Southport Charter and described the roles
and responsibilities of each Board member and the full Board of Aldermen. The
full Board sets policies. Each Board member has an obligation to attend
official meetings and to vote. The General Statutes, City Charter, and
Ordinances give authority to the Board. Ms. Miller divided the Board into
smaller groups and asked each person to list two things they consider
themselves an expert about and two things they know the least about. After
reviewing in small groups, each Board member stated their perceived strengths
and weaknesses. There was some discussion about whether the Board of Aldermen
trusts the department heads to do a good job because the Board often hires
consultants instead of listening to them.
In closing, Ms. Miller described the characteristics of thriving communities.
These include committing to uniting for the common good, accepting
responsibility, action-oriented and proactive behavior, and developing strong
plans with benchmarks. Characteristics of dying communities include avoiding
controversy, choosing sides based on relationships and people instead of facts,
deferring investments, and having a small group of long-term residents
controlling everything.
Ms. Miller thanked the Board for hosting her and offered her contact
information if they had any questions.
Lunch break
Mayor Hatem called for a lunch break at 12: 15 p.m.
Afternoon session
The following department heads and others arrived for the afternoon: Travis
Henley, Kate Marshall, Ellie Pittenger, Tom Stanley, Patti Fortuna, Battalion
Chief Ralph Treadway, Melanie Trexler, Heather Hemphill, Randy Jones, ChyAnn
Ketchum, Police Chief Todd Coring, Tish Hatem, and Eliot Duke with the State
Port Pilot. Vickie Miller and Ann White departed.
Mayor Hatem resumed the meeting at 1:02 p.m. He called on Ms. Bonnie Therrien
to explain the purpose of the afternoon workshop. She explained that strategic
planning helps the Board and Staff decide where our energy, resources,
staffing, and money goes for the upcoming years. It is the vision that directs
us. It is a guide and a communication device for the public and can be used for
evaluation purposes. Ms. Therrien asked Finance Director Melanie Trexler to
review the status of the FY22-23 budget. Ms. Trexler explained how to interpret
the budget sheets for each department. Then she summarized how much of the
budget is remaining for the second half of the budget year. Sometimes, if the
percentage remaining is lower than 50%, it is because there have already been
purchase orders opened for that department.
Ms. Therrien asked the Board to list some strengths and weaknesses of the City,
and Ms. Dutton wrote the answers on a large pad so the public could read. Some
of the strengths included the natural beauty of the area, the staff, the rich
history, and a large volunteer base. Some weaknesses included aging
infrastructure, the construction on NC211, and the lack of City policies. At
that point, Ms. Therrien asked each Board member to state any goals or
priorities for each department, and Ms. Dutton listed each response on the
large pad. Each department head stood at the podium, available for responses
and suggestions. Some goals and projects included City branding, signage,
competitive wages, more space for personnel, stormwater management, relocating
electrical underground, a new comprehensive plan, updating the development
ordinances, more proactive code enforcement, and the yacht basin pedestrian
corridor.
Ms. Therrien thanked the Board and Staff for their input. She will bring all
the information back to the Board for adoption. All items listed will be
considered as the FY23-34 budget preparation progresses. Mayor Hatem thanked
everyone for attending and said the meeting was a big help as we move forward.
Adjourn
Alderman Lombardi made a motion to adjourn. Alderman Carroll seconded the
motion. All ayes. Mayor Hatem adjourned the meeting at 3:46 p.m.
                     _____________________________________
                     Karen Mosteller, Mayor Pro-tem
                     City of Southport
 
__________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
 
FEBRUARY 7, 2023
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
BOARD OF ALDERMEN
SPECIAL AGENDA REVIEW WORKSHOP INDIAN TRAIL MEETING HALL
FEBRUARY 7, 2023
 
PRESENT:
Mayor Pro-tem Karen Mosteller; Aldermen Tom Lombardi, John Allen, Robert
Carroll, Rich Alt, and Lowe Davis
ABSENT: Mayor Hatem was not able to attend due to illness.
STAFF PRESENT:
Bonnie Therrien, City Manager
Dorothy Dutton, Assistant City Manager/City Clerk
Travis Henley, Director of Development Services
Tom Stanley, Public Services Director
OTHERS PRESENT FOR THE MORNING:
John Nichols, Brunswick County Utilities Director     
Steve Stone, Brunswick County Manager
Emily Miller, McAdams and Associates     
Gary Hartog, Wooten Engineering
Call to Order
Mayor Pro tem Mosteller called the special workshop to order at 9:00 a.m.
Invocation
Alderman Lowe Davis provided the invocation.
Pledge of Allegiance
Mayor Pro-tem led everyone in reciting the Pledge of Allegiance.
Approval of Agenda
Alderman Lombardi made a motion to approve the agenda as presented. Alderman
Allen seconded. All ayes. Motion carried.
 
Agenda
1. City Manager Bonnie Therrien welcomed the Board, Brunswick County staff, and
Mr. Hartog from Wooten Engineering. Ms. Therrien said she was glad to have the
meeting to review the agenda for the Regular meeting and to discuss the big
issue of funding the expansion of the County's wastewater treatment facility.
The City Manager reviewed the secured funding, but a gap of approximately $27
million remains. At the Regular February Board meeting, the staff is asking the
Board to accept the second ARPA payment and transfer a total of $1.2 million
toward the treatment plant. The question for the Board is how much debt they
are willing to assume to make this project happen. Depending on how much debt
the City has, the utility rates could be extraordinarily high. Ms. Therrien
said she has been contacting financial advisors to see if they can help analyze
the City's finances.
Alderman Alt asked how much capacity the County has today and how much capacity
the expansion will create. It appears to him that this expansion is very small.
Mr. John Nichols answered that the capacity needed is calculated by the actual
flow and differs from the permitted capacity. It takes a significant period of
time to reach the permitted capacity. The entire County is growing, and there
are many facility expansions in the County's capital improvement projects plan.
Alderman Alt mentioned that the City sends approximately 59 million gallons of
rainwater to the County to be processed due to inflow and infiltration (I & I).
As the City's wastewater system gets repaired and replaced, will that amount
decrease?
County Manager Steven Stone added that Southport had not contributed any
capital costs towards the wastewater processing or infrastructure. The capacity
that Southport leases from the County is no longer available. Once the WWTP
expansion is complete, the City will still have 750,000 gallons of wastewater
capacity, but the City will own that capacity, not lease it. A facility is
designed for peak flows. Southport has gone over its leased capacity during
peak flows.
John Nichols explained what an infiltration basin is and said it is the most
cost-effective method for processing wastewater. Mr. Nichols added that
Southport is not expected to pay toward the land costs. Right now, the City's
flow is going into an equalization (EQ) basin at one facility. The City is
expected to pay for the EQ basin at the Mulberry Branch, so it is an equivalent
facility.
Alderman Allen said the timing was poor because of all the increased costs. The
project has been kicked down the road for as long as possible.
City Manager Bonnie Therrien said that no decisions have to be made at this
meeting. The topic will return to the Board after staff meets with the
financial advisors. She thanked Mr. Stone for including the City in this
process.
Alderman Carroll expressed frustration and said they don't have any
alternatives. Ms. Therrien said that the County has offered to help finance the
project, but the utility rates would still increase because the City would pay
the County back. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller reminded the public about the meeting
on February 27 at the Community Building. The meeting will allow the public to
ask questions of the engineers involved with the wastewater projects.
2. Travis Henley, the Director of Development Services, presented information
about rights-of-way to the Board. He said within Southport's core, many carve-
outs have been given to residents. There are many nonconforming lots, and many
property owners are building out to the maximum of their lots. He read a
reference to right-of-way, and it mentioned the horizontal plane. But there is
no definition of horizontal plane in the ordinance. In the past, City staff was
asked to stand down instead of enforcing the rights-of-way. Now City staff is
asking for direction from the Board of Aldermen. Should it be enforced as
written? Mr. Henley also suggested creating a "clear zone" where nothing could
be placed.
Alderman Alt commented that because there is not enough parking downtown, some
people will park in the residential areas. Alderman Davis mentioned that the
Forestry Committee occasionally plants trees in the right-of-way. Mayor Pro-tem
Mosteller thanked City staff for working on this process. She explained that
historically, the rights-of-way were created to allow the breeze to move into
the City from the Cape Fear River. She urged the importance of preserving what
makes Southport, Southport. Many things must be considered, including public
safety, parks and recreation activities, runners, pedestrians, bicycles, church
parking, and fire and rescue vehicles. Alderman Lombardi asked if the clear
zone would include where vehicles park horizontally on the roads. Mr. Henley
said it would be from the edge of the pavement. Alderman Allen stated that
individual property owners do not own those parking areas adjacent to the
roads. Alderman Davis said there must be a huge education effort before
enforcement begins. Alderman Carroll said having a smaller clear zone area
might be beneficial. Travis Henley suggested that vegetation would still be
allowed outside the clear zone, and trees could remain.
Mr. Henley said that rights-of-way could be enforced in Southport, similarly to
NCDOT. Development Services, Public Services, and the Fire Marshal would review
applications for right-of-way encroachment. If the City starts enforcing the
ordinance, there would likely be a grace period to allow homeowners to comply.
After the grace period, City staff would aggressively enforce the ordinance.
Travis Henley added that staff also need direction about whether to be
proactive or reactive in code enforcement. Alderman Lombardi said that too many
people are trying to make these decisions and changing their minds. Ms.
Therrien said that once staff received direction, the ordinances would be
enforced the same for everyone. Mr. Henley said that proactive enforcement
would likely require another staff member.
There was further discussion about restaurants in town that have outdoor
seating. At the onset of the Coronavirus pandemic, the City allowed restaurants
to put tables and chairs outside to help their business. Now the pandemic is
over. Some restaurants still have all the outdoor seating, and some even
expanded those areas without paying system development fees. City staff needs
unified direction about these instances.
3. The Board reviewed the agenda for the next regular meeting of the Board of
Aldermen scheduled for Thursday, February 9, 2023. Alderman Alt asked for
clarification about "at large" dogs and how the Animal Protective Services
staff can enter a property to search for a dog.
Alderman Davis mentioned that if the Mayor and Aldermen want to change the
charter regarding the mayoral term, the ward election system should also be
addressed. And the changes should be approved by voters via a referendum.
Alderman Allen suggested the Mayoral term be addressed first. Alderman Davis
explained that the County is getting close to adopting its new master plan. She
asked the City Clerk to write a resolution supporting the adoption of the Plan
and encourage the County to consider building a new regional pool facility
closer to Southport. There were no more questions or discussions needed about
the agenda.
Mayor Comments
F. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller had no additional comments.
Additional Comments
G. No one on the Board of Aldermen had additional comments or questions.
Adjourn
H. Alderman Lombardi motioned to adjourn the meeting. Alderman Carroll seconded
the motion. All ayes. Motion carried. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller adjourned the
meeting at 11:32 a.m.
 
                     _____________________________________
                     Joseph P. Hatem, MD, MPH.
                     Mayor, City of Southport
 
__________________________________
Dorothy Dutton
Assistant City Manager/City Clerk
City of Southport
FEBRUARY 9, 2023
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
Board of Aldermen Regular Meeting Minutes
February 9, 2023
223 E. Bay Street
Southport Community Building
6:00 p.m.
 
Present: 
   Mayor Pro tem Karen Mosteller, Aldermen Thomas Lombardi, Rich Alt, Lowe
Davis, Robert Carroll, and John Allen
Staff Present:   Bonnie Therrien, Interim City Manager
   Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
   Randy Jones, Communications/Tourism Director
   ChyAnn Ketchum, Communications and Public Information Officer
   Heather Hemphill, Parks and Recreation Director
   Kate Marshall, Animal Control
   Travis Henley, Director of Development Services
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   Todd Coring, Police Chief
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
   Tom Stanley, Public Services Director
   
Others Present: Norwood Blanchard III, Will Hewett, Sue Hodgin, Renee Spencer
with Star News Online, Eliot Duke with the State Port Pilot, and many other
interested citizens attended.
Meetings are open to the public. Complete audio/video is available on the
City's website or can be requested from the City Clerk's office.
Call to Order
Mayor Pro tem Mosteller called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m. She welcomed
everyone to the meeting.
Invocation
Mayor Pro tem Mosteller asked Donnie Joyner to provide the invocation.
Pledge of Allegiance
Mayor Pro tem led the pledge of allegiance.
Special Presentations:
Mr. John Mosely, Director of the Maritime Museum, addressed the Board. He said
he started at the museum in October 2022. His previous professional experiences
include Fort Fisher and over thirty years of service. He stated he loves
working in this area because of the history, particularly within the African
American community. During wartime, turpentine harvesting relocated enslaved
people from the fields, and many local shrimp boats became militarized and used
to defend against U-boats. Women joined the service, too, as shipbuilders,
welders, librarians, and caring for the children of the women who wanted to
volunteer. Some women joined the military and formed the Women's Air Force. Mr.
Mosely explained the museum is changing its collections. There are new
educational programs with hands-on activities. Next month is Women's History
Month. He said that a woman created the flares used on boats in emergencies. He
has enjoyed working with the Southport Historical Society. The museum staff and
programming aim to help bring people to Southport, which will also help build
the economy.
Mr. Alan Thompson, a Certified Public Accountant, presented the City's audit
report to the Board. He ran through the report, highlighting areas that need
improvement, including the timely processing of capital project transfers. The
fund balance has increased since last year. The tax collection rate is
excellent. Aldermen Alt confirmed with Mr. Thompson that an audit doesn't
consider the efficiency of the policies and procedures.
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller stated that the next presentation would be postponed
until the March Board meeting.
Public Comment:
Ms. Dutton called Mr. Brian Stevens, a resident of 503 Cades Cove, to speak. He
thanked the Aldermen for their continued support of the kayak launch but asked
if bathrooms were included in the project. Mr. Stevens also expressed concern
about some homes being built on 14 th Street. It seems to him that the homes
are below grade and will be subject to flooding. He suggested that the City
adopt codes that align with the increasing water levels.
 
    Mayor Pro tem read the ethics statement.  
Approval of Agenda
Alderman Allen made a motion to approve the agenda as presented. Alderman Davis
motioned to amend the agenda to include a Resolution regarding the Brunswick
County Parks and Recreation Master plan to the agenda as Item 10. Alderman
Lombardi seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.
Approval of Consent Agenda-
Mayor Pro tem summarized the items on the Consent Agenda.
The acceptance of the grant funding for the kayak launch.
Transferring the second ARPA payment to the water/sewer fund to go towards the
cost of the wastewater treatment plant expansion.
Authorization of the City Manager's contract.
Board of Aldermen Regular Meeting Minutes January 12, 2023
Board of Aldermen Closed Session Minutes January 12, 2023
Board of Aldermen Special Workshop Minutes January 17, 2023
Board of Aldermen Special Workshop Minutes January 19, 2023
Budget Amendment #2 Transferring Christmas Tea Funds to Community Events Fund
Alderman Davis made a motion to approve the Consent Agenda. Alderman Lombardi
seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.
Special Recognition-
Mayor Pro tem Mosteller asked Donnie Joyner and the other volunteers to join
her as she read the Proclamation in Recognition of Black History Month. Donnie
Joyner accepted the proclamation and reminded the public this was the 11 th
year for the Symposium for Black History Month. He reviewed the programming
scheduled for the next weekend and invited everyone to attend.
I.) Agenda
Mayor Pro tem asked Animal Protective Services Director, Kate Marshall, to
explain the proposed amendment to the Code of Ordinances. Ms. Marshall stated
there are two definitions proposed to add to the code, the definition of 'at
large' and 'leash.' She stated that the biggest part of the proposed amendment
is adding information for the new dog park and Taylor Field. All pets residing
in the City limits must be licensed already. Vaccinations are required. The
registration to use the dog park is just another tool to help keep track of who
is using the park and make sure all the dogs have vaccinations and aren't
putting other dogs at risk. There was clarification that anyone interested can
use the dog park, not just residents of the City. They just have to use the
online registration process. Alderman Alt asked why the park has any access
restrictions. Ms. Marshall explained that she has been to many certification
programs and spoken to many other Animal Welfare Officers. She stated that
controlling access to dog parks is practiced throughout the state. Mayor Pro
tem Mosteller thanked Ms. Marshall for her professionalism and for providing
one of the best animal welfare programs in the state. Mayor Pro tem Mosteller
opened the public hearing at 7:04 p.m. Assistant City Manager/City Clerk
Dorothy Dutton announced that no one from the public had signed in to speak
about the proposed amendment. Ms. Debbie Barnes, a resident at 425 W. West
Street, raised her hand and asked to address the Board. She explained that she
would be most affected by the amendment. She has been walking her dogs with an
electric leash since she broke her back in four places. She would love to be
able to continue using the electric leashes, but she understands why there are
no exceptions or grandfathering currently. She understands that Southport is
growing. Not everyone who uses an electric leash will have the same ability to
control their dogs or train their dogs as well as she has. Rules are general,
and we need to use common sense. Using a registration program creates a safe
environment for all the dogs. And it also protects children from entering the
gate. Mayor Pro tem closed the public hearing at 7:15 p.m. Alderman Carroll
asked Ms. Marshall to explain more about the electric leashes and why excluding
their use of them is necessary. City Manager Bonnie Therrien explained that
staff would look at the amendment more closely and ask the City Attorney to
review it, but changes could be made later. Alderman Carroll said he would
approve the amendment if the definition of 'leash' is removed. There was some
discussion between the Board and Attorney Blanchard about adding language to
accommodate disabilities. Alderman Lombardi motioned to adopt the amendment
after removing the two references changing the definition of a leash. Alderman
Davis seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.
Parks and Recreation Director Heather Hemphill explained that there is a second
phase to the Taylor Field project, and she has hoped to build an inclusive
playground. An inclusive playground is different than an ADA-compliant
playground. The inclusive playground allows all people, children and adults, to
play together. Disabled parents can swing with their children, and siblings can
play together regardless of disabilities. City Manager Bonnie Therrien added
that she has worked with Boundless Playgrounds, and this type of playground is
a great amenity. Ms. Hemphill announced that the Southport Lions Club has
graciously offered an $8,000 donation towards the startup money for an
inclusive playground. Unlimited Play will assist with fundraising, planning,
and park design. The whole community can get involved. The additional startup
funding will come from the Parks and Recreation budget. Once more fundraising
is done, all of the funds raised can be used as a match for a PART-F grant.
Alderman Carroll motioned to accept the funding from the Lions Club and move
forward with the Contract with Unlimited Play. Alderman Allen seconded the
motion. All ayes. Motion carried .
Director of Development Services, Travis Henley, addressed the Board of
Aldermen about the Planning Board's review of the City's property near Sunny
Point. The Planning Board recommended selling the property, totaling 440 acres,
except for about thirty acres needed for a storm debris laydown yard. Alderman
Davis, Alderman Carroll, and Mayor Pro tem Mosteller supported selling the
property to the Wildlife Resource Commission, possibly just purchasing property
elsewhere for the laydown yard. Alderman Allen said he didn't agree to work
with one potential buyer, and reminded the Board that they have a fiduciary
responsibility to the citizens of Southport. Alderman Alt suggested that the
City lease it to another organization while the WRC is gathering funds to
purchase the property. Alderman Davis restated her motion to accept the
Planning Board's recommendation and authorize the City Manager to begin
discussions with the WRC, with the option to retain property as needed.
Alderman Lombardi seconded the motion. Aldermen Davis, Lombardi, and Carroll
voted in favor. Aldermen Allen and Alt voted noes. The majority were in favor;
the motion carried. 
Public Services Director Tom Stanley addressed the Board next. He stated he is
requesting using the four (4) vacant part-time positions to make two (2) full-
time positions. There is no slow or busy season anymore. The department is busy
year-round. There is money in the budget to cover the cost for the remainder of
the fiscal year, but an additional $55,000 will be needed in next year's
budget. Alderman Carroll made a motion to approve the transfer of four (4)
part-time positions to two (2) full-time positions, as presented. Alderman
Lombardi seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.  
City Manager Therrien explained that the APS Officer, Kate Marshall, often has
expenses after hours. Ms. Marshall has been paying for things out of her own
money and then requesting a reimbursement. It would be best to increase the
credit limit and issue a credit card for the APS department. Alderman Allen
motioned to approve the request for a credit card for the Animal Protective
Services department and apply for a credit increase if needed. Alderman Carroll
seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried. Alderman Davis asked Ms.
Marshall what she would likely use the card for, and Ms. Marshall said there
are sometimes emergency vet visits or supplies.
Ms. Therrien asked the Board to decide which Law Firm they wanted to contract
with to be the new City Attorney. The Board interviewed four different firms.
All four had a lot of experience. Alderman Allen motioned to appoint the Brough
Law Firm as the City Attorney with an hourly rate of $215 and $900 for
attending each Board meeting. Alderman Carroll seconded the motion. All ayes.
Motion carried.  
City Manager Bonnie Therrien explained that City staff had interviewed two
engineers interested in working with the City part-time. The engineers had a
wealth of experience and specialized in different types of projects. As a
result, they have both agreed to work for the City part-time. Mr. Tom Zilinek
will be the primary engineer for our water/sewer projects, roads, stormwater
and oversee Public Works. He will be starting the next week. Mr. Bob Jarvis
will complete plan reviews, project management except for water/sewer projects,
write RFPs, develop Capital Improvement Projects, and write/apply for any
available grants. He won't be starting until April. Alderman Allen made a
motion to hire Mr. Zilinek and Mr. Jarvis on a part-time basis as engineers for
the City of Southport. Aldermen Carroll and Davis seconded the motion. All
ayes. Motion carried.  
The next item discussed amending the City Charter and changing the Mayor's
term. Alderman Davis motioned to table the item until the new attorney could
guide them. Alderman Alt seconded the motion. Ayes from everyone but Alderman
Allen, who voted no. The motion was carried, and the item was tabled.  
Ms. Therrien explained the next item was the Board's approval of the list of
strategic planning goals compiled during the special meeting in January.
Alderman Davis could not attend that Special Meeting but said she had nothing
further to add to the list because it was comprehensive. Alderman Allen
motioned to adopt the list as presented and directed staff to use the list in
budget planning for FY23-24. Alderman Alt seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion
carried.  
The Resolution in Support of the Brunswick County Parks and Recreation Master
Plan was added to the agenda at the beginning of the meeting. Alderman Davis
read the Resolution and mentioned that they were also encouraging the County to
build a regional swimming pool facility close to Southport. Alderman Davis
motioned to adopt the Resolution, and Alderman Carroll seconded. All ayes.
Motion carried.  
J.) Manager's Report
Ms. Bonnie Therrien thanked Attorney Norwood Blanchard for his service to the
City. She also recognized Fire Chief Charles Drew for this thirty (30) year
work anniversary. Everyone clapped for him.
K.) Committee Reports
Alderman Carroll thanked City staff for their good progress on the Historical
Preservation inventory. He also mentioned the 4 th of July Committee meeting
scheduled for February 21.
Mayor Pro tem mentioned the Parks and Recreation Committee meeting the
following week at the Indian Trail Meeting Hall. And the Planning Board will
meet the following Thursday at 6:00 p.m.
Alderman Davis stated that the Forestry Committee is meeting at the Indian
Trail Meeting Hall at 5:00 p.m. Tuesday. She suggested that citizens can attend
the Forestry and Parks and Recreation meetings on the same night.
Alderman Lombardi reported that the Beautification Committee had been canceled
for February because of the weather.
L.) Mayor's Report
Mayor Pro tem Mosteller wanted to publicize the upcoming Southport Symposium
series. A monthly session is scheduled, and it is a great opportunity for the
public to learn more about their government and City staff. The following
Monday, the series begins with Administration, Human Resources, and Animal
Protective Services. The program begins at 2:00 p.m., and registration is
required.
M.) All staff reports were included in the Board packet.
N.) Board Comments
Alderman Allen encouraged participation in the symposium. He also wished
everyone a Happy Valentine's Day.
Alderman Carroll took a moment, waved into the camera, and said hello to his
children. He said they have been asking him to do that. And he thanked Attorney
Blanchard.
Alderman Alt reminded the public about the agenda review meetings scheduled the
Fridays before the Board meetings at the Indian Trail Meeting Hall.
Alderman Davis added that the Citizens Academy (Southport Symposium) is so
important. She said that there are many misconceptions about the government on
social media. And she also thanked Attorney Blanchard.
Alderman Lombardi thanked City staff and the other Board members for moving
things along. Happy Valentine's Day.
O.) Adjourn
 
   Alderman Allen motioned to adjourn the meeting, which Alderman Carroll
seconded. All ayes. Motion carried. Mayor Pro tem Mosteller adjourned the
meeting at 8:26 p.m.
 
                     _______________________________________
                      Karen Mosteller, Mayor Pro tem
                     City of Southport
 
______________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
Assistant City Manager
FEBRUARY 27, 2023
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
SPECIAL PUBLIC MEETING MINUTES
BOARD OF ALDERMEN
FEBRUARY 27, 2023
SOUTHPORT COMMUNITY BUILDING
PRESENT:
Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor Pro-tem Karen Mosteller; Aldermen Tom Lombardi,
John Allen, Lowe Davis, and Rich Alt
STAFF PRESENT:
Bonnie Therrien, City Manager
Dorothy Dutton, Assistant City Manager/City Clerk
Heather Hemphill, Parks, and Recreation Director
Tom Stanley, Public Services Director
   
Call to Order
Mayor Hatem called the special public meeting to order at 3:06 p.m.
 
Invocation
Alderman Lowe Davis gave the invocation.
Pledge of Allegiance
Mayor Hatem led everyone in the Pledge of Allegiance.
 
D)    Approval of Agenda
Alderman Allen made a motion to approve the agenda. Alderman Davis seconded the
motion. All ayes. Motion carried.
E)    Agenda
   1. City Manager Bonnie Therrien stated the purpose of this meeting was to
provide the public with an update on some of the projects ongoing in Southport,
particularly the shoreline stabilization and wastewater projects. She added
that the legislators awarded the City $5 million for the shoreline
stabilization project and introduced Chris Creed, the engineer with Olsen
Associates, who was selected for the project.
Chris Creed thanked the Board of Aldermen for having him attend the meeting. He
explained that he has worked with the City of Southport since 2018. At the
time, there was no funding source identified. He described the waterfront of
Southport and how storm surge, wind waves, and ship-generated waves cause high
erosional stress. In addition, a channel deepening is planned for the Cape Fear
River to allow larger ships through. Mr. Creed added that sea level rise is
estimated at a foot per century. The shoreline in Southport has been divided
into six sections for consideration. Ideally, the coastline could be walkable
all along the water from the yacht basin to the eastern portion near Bonnet’s
Creek. There is cultural and historical significance in parts of the shoreline.
The cultural assessment is ongoing. Some of the rocks and features could be
parts of historic structures. Section 5 has more evidence of structures, old
piers, etc. There is a small rock structure in front of the marsh. It allows
the marsh area to survive because it reduces the wave action in that area.
Ship waves likely are the most impactful on our shoreline. He described the
options available for stabilizing the waterfront. Option One uses T groins, a
sand beach, and a living shoreline. Option Two includes breakwaters, a sand
beach, and a living shoreline; Option Three would involve revetment and a
living shoreline. He added that the sand would likely not stay in place for
very long because of the boats that go by. The sand would have to be imported
and need to be stabilized.
Mr. Creed explained that Olsen Associates is currently updating the topographic
and hydrographic surveys and the cultural resource survey and investigation.
The Board of Aldermen must decide which option to choose before moving forward.
Permitting this project will likely take two years. Some considerations are
water depths seaward of the project, available funding, riparian ownership, and
cultural resources. An environmental survey will have to be completed to
include fish and other wildlife. Aldermen Alt asked about whether funding could
be requested back by the state if the project includes some of the privately
owned areas. Chris Creed said they would ensure they follow the grant
guidelines. Alderman Alt questioned whether taking action in Sections 5 and 6
would be considered for the public betterment. Mr. Creed might not let us work
in those areas, but the sections can be included to inform the property owners.
The City could always partner with private owners to repair all the sections.
Alderman Davis asked if there were any negative impacts if the City only does
work in Sections 1-4. Mr. Creed said he doesn’t foresee any negative impacts.
There are many issues in the yacht basin because the shoreline is not a
straight line. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller informed the public and Mr. Creed that
the City is working on a dredging project. Mr. Creed said the shoreline project
should not interfere with the dredging area. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller also asked
if building up the shoreline would help the City be more resilient to sea level
rise. Mr. Creed said the yacht basin and lower areas are in the most danger. He
added that building up the shore doesn’t mean the water won’t find another way
in.
Mayor Hatem explained that no decisions were being made today, but they would
happily take public comments or questions.
2. Brian Stevens, a resident of Cades Cove, said he remembers considering this
type of project in 2014 or 2015. Based on public input, a study was done, and
it was determined that ships were shown not to harm the shore. Chris Creed said
most of the damage is done by storms. Mr. Stevens also asked about the
stabilization project and its impact on the proposed kayak launch. Mr. Creed
explained that kayaks would still be launched between gaps in the
reinforcements.
Jesse McPherson, who owns McPherson Marine, stepped up to the podium to speak.
He stated that he had previously worked for the City but also lives in the
area. He explained in the past, the private property owners from Atlantic
Street to Kingsley Park were told they had to give up their riparian rights if
the City did work. He urged the Board to allow the private owners to contribute
to the project.
Mayor Hatem reiterated that wave energy is so powerful he suggested the Board
consider the entire 4000 feet of waterfront.
   3. Carter Hubard with W K Dickson Engineering reviewed the Mulberry Branch
Wastewater Treatment Plant expansion project with Brunswick County. Bids were
received in November 2022, but all the bids were too high, and they were all
rejected. The cost of labor was significantly higher than anticipated. The
County is ready to request bids but is waiting for the City of Southport to
decide how much debt can be assumed and the best path forward to completing the
project.
   4. Mayor Hatem introduced Mr. Walter Gross with Wooten Engineering to review
the ongoing Water and Wastewater Merger Feasibility Study. Mr. Gross explained
the City received grant funding from the NC Division of Water Infrastructure to
investigate a regional utility system. Wooten Engineering has received much
information from Brunswick County and will start working through it. They will
complete the wastewater portion first. Wooten Engineering will assess the age
and condition of the existing inventory. The study usually takes a year to
complete.
   5. Mr. Gross reviewed the USDA sewer repair and replacement project. This
project will identify weaknesses in the infrastructure and make suggestions
about either repairing components or replacing them. For example, a line might
be the correct size, but different material is recommended. Wooten is currently
surveying the infrastructure. Next, they will make a preliminary design with
estimated costs. Construction for this project should start around June 2024.
   6. Carter Hubard explained that the City was awarded $400,000 towards a
“find it, fix it” project. This study will allow the engineers to take a
broader look to see where the water gets into the system. The City sends a lot
of extra water to the County to be processed because of storm and groundwater.
   7. Carter Hubard said that W K Dickson has been working on the lift station
rehab project. They are looking to the future to determine where repairs can
make the most impact on the system overall. W K Dickson has been doing the
field testing with the help of City staff. The lift station on Moore Street was
worse than expected. They will continue to study the stations and also consider
any potential developments. The lift station project considers existing
conditions, peak capacity, pump improvements, and force main improvements. Mr.
Hubard added that construction for this project is tentatively scheduled for
2024.
Alderman Alt asked Mr. Hubard if he had been provided the information about the
contamination in the creek. Alderman Alt said that the sewer pipes around the
creek areas need to be inspected, and those areas should be prioritized.
Alderman Allen stated that there are other possible sources of contamination,
including septic systems and boats. There are a lot of septic systems in
Smithville Woods.
     8. Ms. Morrison said they are grateful to have the Cape Fear River
Watchers working with them to test the water scientifically. She would like the
engineers to review their historical data.
F)    Board Comments
Mayor Hatem said the presentations were great, and the information was very
helpful. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller thanked the engineers for coming today to
present the different projects. Alderman Alt thanked City Manager Bonnie
Therrien for putting the meeting together and simultaneously getting all the
pieces together. There were no other Board comments.
G.) Adjourn
   Mayor Hatem adjourned the meeting at 4:54 p.m. after a motion from Alderman
Lombardi. Alderman Alt seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.
                     _____________________________________
                     Joseph P. Hatem, MD, MPH.
                     Mayor, City of Southport
 
__________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
MARCH 1, 2023
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
BOARD OF ALDERMEN         SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
INDIAN TRAIL MEETING HALL      MARCH 1, 2023
PRESENT:
Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor Pro-tem Karen Mosteller, Aldermen John Allen, Lowe
Davis, and Rich Alt
ABSENT: Alderman Lombardi and Alderman Carroll were absent from the meeting.
STAFF PRESENT:
Bonnie Therrien, City Manager
Dorothy Dutton, Assistant City Manager/City Clerk
Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
Tom Stanley, Public Services Director
Tom Zilinek, City Engineer
OTHERS PRESENT:
David Cheatwood, First Tryon Advisors
Steve Stone, Brunswick County Manager
Walter Goldsmith, First Tryon Advisors
A) Call to Order
Mayor Hatem called the special workshop to order at 9:01 a.m.
B)
Alderman Lowe Davis provided the invocation.
C)
Mayor Hatem led everyone in the Pledge of Allegiance. Mayor Hatem read the
ethics statement.
D)
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller made a motion to approve the agenda. Alderman Davis
seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried. 
E) Agenda
   1.   Mayor Hatem thanked the consultants and City staff for arranging the
workshop. He explained that the Board would discuss funding options for
expanding wastewater treatment plants with Brunswick County. Mayor Hatem read
the mission statement for First Tryon Advisors. City Manager Bonnie Therrien
welcomed everyone to the second of three meetings scheduled for the week. She
thanked the County manager for attending. Brunswick County needs direction from
the City about how the project can be funded. First Tryon Advisors has been a
blessing. City staff met with Mr. Cheatwood and Mr. Goldsmith on February 14,
2023, for the first time. First Tryon Advisors has been working quickly to
create a model showing the options. They have included many of the ongoing
projects. Ms. Therrien added that the model shows a conservative estimate, but
the advisors would love more time to work through the options. Unfortunately,
the County needs an answer as soon as possible.
   2.   Mr. David Cheatwood provided some background on the advisory firm. They
are not lenders or underwriters; they have a fiduciary duty to advise the City.
First Tryon Advisors know the Local Government Commission well and are familiar
with their practices. First Tryon Advisors sit on the City’s side of the table
to review dept capacity, financial impacts, and available options for funding.
Mr. Cheatwood explained that they enjoy using models because they are
interactive.
   3.   For the City’s project, they have considered existing revenues,
operating expenses, and any potential impacts on the utility rates. Mr.
Cheatwood said they had loaded the City’s existing debt, revenues, and expenses
into the model, but it is a preliminary model only. Mr. Cheatwood provided the
facts of the project. The total estimated cost is $55 million. The City has $30
million secured as a State Revolving Fund loan to repay over twenty (20) years
at 1.3% interest. A revenue bond is typical because it pledges the City’s
taxing power. The Local Government Commission prefers revenue bonds to be (25)
years, but (30) is possible. They assumed a 5% interest rate and $3.5 million
must be generated for debt service at that rate. The City wouldn’t have to
start paying it back until the project is complete. Key assumptions were
customer growth, average consumption, rate growth, and collected fees. Mr.
Cheatwood and Mr. Goldsmith used the model to provide different scenarios,
including various rate increases, account growth, and consumption decreases.
They included an elasticity factor that states as rates increase, users may use
less to balance the rate increase. Mr. Cheatwood added that some communities
are anti- growth, so they choose to limit the growth factor. Alderman Alt
mentioned that there are currently between 500-600 lots in various forms of
development. Alderman Alt asked if the loan/bond could be paid off early. Mr.
Cheatwood said that after ten years, they could be paid off early.
   Basic operating expenses increase by 2.5% annually for all line items. The
advisors have included $670,000 this year for general repairs. Theoretically,
the Contract Services line item would decrease if the utilities merged. Mr.
Cheatwood explained some financial terms, such as debt service coverage, days
cash on hand, and senior lien coverage. The advisors loaded up all the projects
into the model, and the model indicated the City would need to generate revenue
of up to $9.2 million in the next five years to cover all debt and operating
expenses. The Board and advisors used the model to review different options,
including rate increases and extending loan repayment dates.
   Alderman Alt asked about how the regionalization of utilities and how the
wastewater treatment project debt would be assumed. County Manager Steve Stone
explained that all customers would contribute to the debt if the City and
County truly merged our systems. Alderman Davis reviewed the poverty levels and
asked if the Board would consider creating a different rate for the customers
that fall in that category. The Utility Commission does not allow a lower rate
for special customers. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller mentioned the extra annual
assessment charged for Oak Island customers for ten years. She suggested that
might be a path to generate revenues. Alderman Allen suggested using 1000
gallons a month to see how much revenue that creates. He asked Ms. Trexler to
bring it to the next meeting.
   Ms. Therrien asked Mr. Stone what the absolute deadline was for the City to
decide. Mr. Stone said that the state would likely put the whole County in a
moratorium if a plan were not made soon. The County needs to have an answer
soon, to rebid the project in the next (60) days. Mr. Stone said the County
Finance Director would conduct a cost analysis to see the City’s special rates
if the County assumed the debt and reimbursed them. It is important to remember
that the Board can change its course if additional funding becomes available.
Ms. Therrien said she would put together a tentative schedule to show the Board
how the timing works.
   Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller asked if the County would get a better rate for a
bond, could they obtain a bond for the remaining cost, and let the City pay the
debt service. Mr. Cheatwood explained the difference in rates would be the
equivalent of $175-200,000 a year. Mr. Cheatwood stated he would ask bond
counsel if system development fees could be used for repayment. Mr. Stone
reiterated that the project is already two years behind, and the County is
waiting for the City’s decision, and then the bid request has to be posted for
(45) days.
F) Board Comments and Questions:
   There were no further questions or comments from the Board.
G) 
Mayor Hatem said that it was an excellent meeting. He thanked Ms. Therrien for
arranging it and for making it straightforward. He also thanked City staff.
H) Adjourn
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller made a motion to adjourn the meeting, which was
seconded by Alderman Allen. All ayes. Motion carried. Mayor Hatem adjourned the
meeting at 10:44 a.m.
                     _____________________________________
                     Joseph P. Hatem, M.D., M.P.H.
                     Mayor, City of Southport
 
__________________________________
Dorothy Dutton
Assistant City Manager/City Clerk
MARCH 3, 2023
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
BOARD OF ALDERMEN
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
INDIAN TRAIL MEETING HALL
MARCH 3, 2023
PRESENT: Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor Pro-tem Karen Mosteller, Aldermen John
Allen, Robert Carroll, Lowe Davis, Tom Lombardi, and Rich Alt
STAFF PRESENT:
Bonnie Therrien, City Manager
Dorothy Dutton, Assistant City Manager/City Clerk
Kate Marshall, Animal Protective Services
Tom Stanley, Public Services Director
Tom Zilinek, City Engineer
Travis Henley, Development Services Director
Todd Coring, Police Chief
Heather Hemphill, Parks, and Recreation Director
Ellie Pittenger, Electrical Superintendent
OTHERS PRESENT:
Wes McLeod, Cape Fear Council of Government      Brady Herman, City Attorney
A) Call to Order
Mayor Hatem called the special workshop to order at 9:12 a.m.
B) Invocation
Alderman Lowe Davis provided the invocation.
C) Pledge of Allegiance
Mayor Hatem led everyone in the Pledge of Allegiance. Mayor Hatem read the
ethics statement. Mayor Hatem reviewed the agenda by listing the items.
D) 
Alderman Allen made a motion to approve the agenda. Alderman Lombardi seconded
the motion. All ayes. Motion carried. 
E) Agenda
   1.   Wes McLeod, Director of Government Services with the Cape Fear Council
of Governments, addressed the Board and said that the COG had been hired to do
a basic study to provide conceptual recommendations for moving forward with the
Yacht Basin Corridor. They did onsite visits, inventoried impediments,
strengths, and weaknesses. They focused on the area from Brunswick Street to
Caswell Avenue to the Marina. There is an existing pedestrian path on W. Bay
Street. Yacht Basin Drive has the greatest number of traffic conflicts; the
width is typically twelve feet. The behavior and traffic has become somewhat
normalized over the years. There have been no serious incidents in recent
history. There are a lot of pedestrians, and golf carts. The SWOT (strengths,
weaknesses, opportunities, threats) analysis derived the following
recommendations: 1. Create a more defined space through visual and physical
improvements; 2. Embrace the waterfront asset through a boardwalk connection;
3. Increase the availability of bicycle and golf cart parking; 4. Accentuate
the unique setting through formalized and designed Living Street concept; 5.
Establish branding for the yacht basin district.
Mr. McLeod said a riverwalk is the most logical solution if the City wants to
embrace the waterfront area. He further recommended the creation of a Yacht
Basin Overlay District and Committee. Mr. McLeod stated that he does not like
doing studies like this because it just skims the surface. It would probably
cost $100,000 to really figure out what would be the best plan for the Yacht
Basin area. There was some discussion about the difference between a
prescriptive easement and right-of-way. Mayor Hatem asked Police Chief Coring
to give the Board his opinion. Chief Coring explained that the traffic in the
Yacht Basin was set up with on-way traffic at the beginning of the pandemic. It
was to allow the businesses to serve people with less congestion and less risk.
But now, the pedestrian striping is fading. The faded line encourages folks to
walk into the street. He recommended repainting the pedestrian lane and adding
armadillo paddles to help slow down traffic. Chief Coring reminded everyone of
the slogan, “turn around, don’t drown,” that is used when there is standing
water, because the Yacht Basin often floods. There are several business owners
in the Yacht Basin who are requesting the traffic return to two-way, and add
more signage to reflect the change. Alderman Lombardi stated that he has
considered traffic remaining one way but change the direction. He added that
the City should not wait until there is a major incident before anything gets
done.
Mr. McLeod added that there are some short-term recommendations including
repainting the pedestrian area, and Alderman Allen suggested those
recommendations should be implemented as soon as possible. There was some
discussion about prescriptive easements, deeded easements, and encroachments in
the Yacht Basin area. Mr. McLeod suggested the City have a survey done of the
area to clean up and formalize the correct property lines. Alderman Alt stated
that the Yacht Basin is one of the City’s best assets; the City needs to move
now and not be paralyzed because it is such a big project.
Mrs. Maria Swenson, owner of Provision Company, said she would like to see the
traffic return to two-way traffic. In the past there were no issues with the
two-way traffic and having it as one way hinders business. The boardwalk idea
would take away the boat slips that they use in the Yacht Basin area. Mayor
Pro-tem Mosteller asked Chief Coring and his staff to go back and look for some
quick and easy solutions for the interim, because it might take a while to get
things right. Alderman Allen stated that there has been plenty of consideration
already and Memorial Day is coming soon. City Manager Bonnie Therrien said that
staff needs a decision one way or the other, and the item will be added to the
agenda the following week.
Alderman Davis asked for an estimate of the costs for different options, too.
Mr. Paul Swenson addressed the Board and said that they were never in favor of
one-way traffic. He expressed concern about the condition of water and
wastewater lines in the Yacht Basin because a lot of the older areas have clay
pipes. Because water is critical in the Yacht Basin, he recommended replacing
the lines before making any other changes.
   2.   Animal Protective Services Director, Kate Marshall, addressed the Board
and recommended approval of the definition of leash and add it back to Chapter
3 Animal Welfare in the City’s Code of Ordinances. Ms. Debbie Barnes, who had
expressed concerns about the ordinance previously, said that adding the
definition of leash is the right thing to do for Southport. The definition
states that electronic leashes are not in conformance with the leash laws.
Alderman Allen said that he is sympathetic to her situation. Ms. Dutton added
that even the ADA requires service pets to be on a leash. She also recommends
not adding a provision for exceptions in the ordinance, but that exceptions be
given on an as-needed basis.
Mayor Hatem announced that there would be a brief recess. After the break, the
meeting resumed at 10:38 a.m.
   3.   Mr. Travis Henley, the Development Services Director, approached the
Board to discuss the City’s rights-of way areas. He stated that he had taken
into account the discussion from a previous meeting with regard to clear zones,
clarifying parking areas, and the term horizontal plane. He proposes a six
month grace period to bring public rights-of-way into compliance. There are
still some issues to address including who will remove the materials in the
rights-of-way? Does an engineer have to certify the pervious pavement? There
was discussion about what materials would be allowed in the rights-of-way and
how much coverage is allowed. Alderman Allen suggested that a certain amount
can be impervious, and the balance of the area should be gravel. Alderman Davis
expressed concern that paving would increase stormwater issues, and Mayor Pro-
tem Mosteller added that impervious, and sometimes even pervious coverage can
damage trees. There was a recommendation to give staff discretion to make
determinations. Ms. Therrien commented that discretion gets us into trouble.
Mr. Henley said that there should be three people needed to approve an
encroachment permit. There was discussion about vehicles that are parked in the
rights-of-ways, and also how many intersections are blocked because of the
vegetation planted right at the roads.
   4.   The next item on the agenda was the discussion about the Mayor’s term
and the City Charter. Attorney Brady Herman explained that there are specific
processes spelled out in the statutes of how to make those changes. A
resolution must be adopted that states the intent to make the changes and set a
public hearing. The Board can approve the changes, but the public has the right
to petition; or the changes can be voted on by the public in a referendum.
Aldermen Alt asked why they would adopt a resolution without stating what
changes are being proposed. Alderman Davis said she felt the charter was too
sacred to be changed by only six people. Alderman Davis suggested a committee
be created to focus on what changes would be best. Mayor Hatem stated that the
form of government would not be changed, and that government should not be at
the convenience of the elected officials. Several Board members agreed that
there are so many ongoing projects, maybe this can wait. Mayor Hatem reminded
the Board that this was not the first time they had discussed the topic.
   5.   Next was the review of the Regular meeting agenda on March 9, 2023.
Ellie Pittenger, the Electrical Superintendent, explained that it has been
years since a complete rate study has been done. The cost is $27,000. Mr.
Pittenger could only find one company who could do the study, Utility Financial
Solutions. The las full study was done prior to 2009. There is plenty of money
in the electric fund to pay for the study.
Heather Hemphill explained that Chris Creed, with Olsen and Associates, needs
direction as soon as possible about which areas to include in the survey. It
was the staff’s recommendation to include all six sections in the survey.
Eventually, the City can decide which sections to take the recommended actions
and repairs. There is an opportunity for the property owners of section six to
partner with the City to do the repairs in their area.
Melanie Trexler, Finance Director, explained the audit contract needed to be
amended because of the time it took to complete. There were no questions from
the Board.
There was some discussion about the wastewater rates and possible increases due
to the cost of the wastewater treatment plant expansion. He said he wants to
increase the amount that the City contributes to Brunswick Family Assistance,
to be able to help more lower-income residents.
F) Board Comments and Questions:
Alderman Allen said that it was a great meeting. Alderman Carroll, Alt, and
Lombardi all thanked Alderman Allen for suggesting the second monthly meetings.
G)
Mayor Hatem said that it was an excellent meeting. He thanked City staff and
the Board for attending the meeting.
H) Adjourn
Alderman Allen made a motion to adjourn the meeting, which was seconded by
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller. All ayes. Motion carried. Mayor Hatem adjourned the
meeting at 12:21 p.m.
 
                     _____________________________________
                     Joseph P. Hatem, M.D., M.P.H.
                     Mayor, City of Southport
 
__________________________________
Dorothy Dutton
Assistant City Manager/City Clerk
 
MARCH 9, 2023
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
Board of Aldermen Regular Meeting Minutes
March 9, 2023
223 E. Bay Street
Southport Community Building
6:00 p.m.
Present:    Mayor Hatem, Mayor Pro tem Karen Mosteller, Aldermen Thomas
Lombardi, Rich Alt, Lowe Davis, Robert Carroll, and John Allen
Staff Present:
   Bonnie Therrien, Interim City Manager
   Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
   Randy Jones, Communications/Tourism Director
   ChyAnn Ketchum, Communications and Public Information Officer
   Heather Hemphill, Parks and Recreation Director
   Kate Marshall, Animal Control
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   Ralph Treadway, Battalion Chief
   Todd Coring, Police Chief
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
   Tom Stanley, Public Services Director
   Ellie Pittenger, Electrical Superintendent
Others Present: Attorney Brady Herman, several members of the Southport Lions
Club, Will Hewett, Sue Hodgin, Renee Spencer with Star News Online, Eliot Duke
with the State Port Pilot, and many other interested citizens attended.
Meetings are open to the public. Complete audio/video is available on the
City's website or can be requested from the City Clerk's office.
A.)
   Mayor Hatem called the meeting to order at 6:03 p.m. He welcomed everyone to
the meeting.
B.)
   Mayor Hatem announced that Reverend Lapp, of the First Presbyterian Church
would provide the invocation.
C.)
   Mayor Hatem led the pledge of allegiance.
D.)   Public Comment
Ralph Brittain, a resident at 6163 River Sound Circle, said he has been a
resident here for five years. He wanted to address the potential change in term
length for the Mayor’s position. He explained that his position was no
reflection of the current Mayor. He explained that the internet is packed with
articles about extending the terms of mayors in bigger cities. But it doesn’t
make sense in smaller cities. He suggested a four-year term could be a merit
provided for a job well served and have continuity of employees. He added that
he served as Mayor in the past, and going through the process of reelection
reignited his desire to serve the public. It also gave him the opportunity to
meet more residents.
Brian Stevens, a resident of 503 Cades Cove, explained that his question was
already answered.
Maria Swenson, resident of 107 N. Atlantic Avenue, addressed the Board next.
She said she didn’t want to sound like a broken record about the Yacht Basin.
She met with the owner of the Frying Pan, Police Chief Coring, and Mayor Hatem.
She explained that the one-way traffic in the Yacht Basin was to help during
the pandemic because it allowed less traffic and more separation. But the
traffic hasn’t increased much since 2019, and she asked to put the traffic back
to two-way. She added that they had two large diesel trucks on Yacht Basin
Drive, and they fit side by side just fine.
Mayor Hatem announced that the City received a large donation for the weather
tower and the reinstalment of the tower is on its way.
Paul Swenson, a resident at 107 N. Atlantic Avenue, said that when Mayor Howard
was in office, they came up with three plans; from Kingsley Park to Fishy Fishy
Café.
Pat Kirkman, a resident at 119 Park Avenue, handed out packets to the Board.
The packets of information summarize almost one year of research that she has
done on the operation of the cemeteries. She also encouraged anyone interested
to reach out and she will send an electronic copy to them. She provided her
email address.
Jenna Fontaine, a resident of Rivermist, wanted to address the traffic pattern
in the Yacht Basin. She loves to walk and walks in the downtown/Yacht Basin
area often. She prefers the Yacht Basin to be one-way. She thinks that with
modification and some thoughtfulness, it could work better for everyone. She
feels safer with one-way traffic, and said she does like the idea of a living
streetscape.
Rebecca Kelly, a resident of 5971 Dutchman Creek Rd, explained that she has
lived in Southport since 1991. She remembers hauling ice across Bay Street and
she never got hit or had to dodge traffic. She thinks it would be wonderful to
have the plantings and tables with chairs at the Yacht Basin, but it doesn’t
seem feasible; the only people who could use it would be the kayakers.
Alderman Allen thanked Ms. Kelly for bringing up that topic, but nothing has
been decided. Mayor Hatem asked City Attorney Herman to explain the process of
amending the City charter. He said there are multiple steps before anything
happens. Mayor Hatem added that the decision will not be made by the seven
members of the Board.
Mayor Hatem read the ethics statement.
E.) Approval of Agenda
Alderman Davis made a motion to approve the agenda after removing Item 2.
Alderman Carroll seconded the motion and requested to also remove Item 6. He
suggested the Board take a special meeting field trip to the Yacht Basin before
making any decisions. Ms. Dutton did role call to determine all those in favor.
All ayes. Motion carried.
F.) Special Recognition
   1.   The Lions Club of Southport was founded in 1945. They have supported
the City in many ways including donating the USO building, and when that
building burned down, the Lions Club raised enough money to build the Community
Building. They are pleased to present the City with a donation of $8,735 for
the Parks and Recreation Department. The donation will be used towards the
planning and construction of an inclusive park. They handed a check to Heather
Hemphill.
   2.   Police Chief Coring said he loves to praise the Police Department. He
wanted to recognize the group of men and women who responded to a call back in
December. There was a suspect with a weapon who was allegedly coming to do harm
to someone in a local business. The Police Department did a great job locating
the person before anything happened. Sgt. Moore was able to engage the suspect
and diffuse the situation. Chief Coring presented all the officers with an
award. Mayor Hatem thanked Chief Coring and all of the officers. He added that
everyone sleeps better at night because of the job the Police Department does.
   3.   Mayor Hatem read a Proclamation for Women’s History Month. He said he
and the Board salute all the women in our lives, our community, our nation and
the world. There was applause. Alderman Davis wanted to note that the City
Manager and the Assistant City Manager are women.
G.) Approval of Consent Agenda
   --Mayor Hatem summarized the items on the Consent Agenda.
   1.   Approval of Water Merger Grant Funding
   2.   Approval of Wastewater Merger Grant Funding
   3.   Adoption of Revised Regular Board Schedule
   4.   Board of Aldermen Regular Meeting Minutes February 12, 2023
   5.   Board of Aldermen Special Agenda Review Meeting Minutes February 7,
2023
Alderman Davis made a motion to approve the Consent Agenda. Alderman Lombardi
seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.
H.) Agenda
   1.   Ellie Pittenger, the Electrical Superintendent, addressed the Board
with a request to have an electrical rate study completed. It has been several
years since there was a study done. Mr. Pittenger passed out a handout to the
Board members. The study would include residential and commercial customers.
There is plenty of unrestricted fund balance. There is one company that is able
to do the study. They will present the results during a Board meeting. The
study will take between 3-6 months. The Board did not have any questions.
Alderman Alt made a motion to authorize the electrical rate study. Mayor Pro-
tem Mosteller seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.
   2.   Animal Protective Services Director Kate Marshall explained that she
was asking the Board to approve the originally proposed language and definition
of leash that was removed at the last meeting. A leash means having physical
control over the dog. There were no questions. Alderman Allen made a motion to
approve the amendment to Chapter 3 Animal Welfare, as presented. Mayor Pro-tem
Mosteller seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.
   3.   Heather Hemphill, Director of the Parks and Recreation Department,
stated that Olsen Associates has requested the Board decide on which sections
of the shoreline to include in the shoreline stabilization project. There were
six sections that spanned from Kingsley Park to the Frying Pan. Alderman Alt
commented that he hopes there would be the opportunity for a public-private
partnership once the surveying was complete . Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller made a
motion to include all six sections in the shoreline stabilization project.
Alderman Lombardi seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.
   4.   Finance Officer Melanie Trexler asked the Board to approve the
amendment to the audit contract for the audit report. There were no questions.
Alderman Carroll made a motion to approve the change to the audit contract.
Alderman Allen seconded the motion. Mayor Hatem read through the reasons for
the change. All ayes. Motion carried.
I.) Manager's Report
City Manager Bonnie Therrien informed the Board of Aldermen that she finally
was able to contact the NC Wildlife Resource Commission about the City’s
property at Sunny Point. The NCWRC is conducting a survey of the property. She
reminded everyone about the next Southport Symposium scheduled for March 13th
with the Community Relations Department. There is currently a survey on the
City’s website, to get input and feedback about the City’s website. She
mentioned that the County had released the new tax valuations. She encouraged
everyone to wait until the tax rates were determined, instead of using the
current tax rate. Ms. Therrien read through a list of employees who are
celebrating a work-anniversary.
J.) Committee Reports
Alderman Carroll stated that the 4th of July Committee is well underway. He
added that this year will be the best 4th of July yet. The Historic
Preservation Commission is working on creating an inventory of historic
properties.
Alderman Davis stated that the Forestry Committee is meeting at the Indian
Trail Meeting Hall at 5:00 p.m. Tuesday. She also reminded everyone that the
Arbor Day event is coming up. She encouraged everyone to attend, and the ice
cream truck will be providing ice cream to those in attendance.
Alderman Lombardi reported that the Beautification Committee met the previous
Saturday and worked on weeding and mulching.
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller informed the public that the Taylor Field ribbon
cutting is scheduled for March 31st at 10:30 a.m. The Parks and Recreation
Committee meeting is scheduled for the following Tuesday, and the Planning
Board meeting is scheduled for the following Thursday evening.
Mayor Hatem reported that there are two new members on the ABC Board . The
Southport ABC has had successful sales and there is a staff meeting scheduled
for April.
K.) Mayor's Report
Mayor Hatem thanked Ms. Therrien for mentioning the symposium. Springfest is
coming up on Easter weekend. He wished everyone a Happy St. Patrick’s Day. The
next Board of Aldermen meeting is scheduled for April 13th.
L.)
All staff reports were included in the Board packet.
M.) Board Comments
Alderman Allen had no other comments.
Alderman Carroll said he wanted to address some misinformation that was
published in the State Port Pilot. He said the City is not going to give the
Sunny Point property away. After the survey is complete, there will be
negotiations and consideration of market value.
Alderman Alt commented that he had attended the Franklin Square Art Gallery
event; it was wonderful.
Alderman Davis asked Ms. Therrien to schedule the site visit to the Yacht Basin
so they can determine if one-way or two-way traffic will be better. She added
that the Board should try to make a decision as soon as possible because
tourist season is coming up.
Alderman Lombardi thanked City staff and the other Board members moving things
along.
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller reminded everyone that the Naturefest lecture series is
coming up.
N.) Closed Session
   Per NCGS 143-318.11 (a) 6. Alderman Carroll made a motion to go into Closed
Session. Aldermen Allen and Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller seconded the motion. All
ayes. Mayor Hatem dismissed the meeting at 7:13 p.m.
O.) Adjourn
   The Closed Session was over, and the Regular meeting was resumed at 7:22
p.m. A motion was made by Alderman Allen to adjourn the meeting; which was
seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller. All ayes. Mayor Hatem adjourned the
meeting at 7:23 p.m.
 
                     _______________________________________
                     Joseph P. Hatem, M.D. M.P.H.
                     Mayor, City of Southport
 
______________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
Assistant City Manager
MARCH 28, 2023
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
BOARD OF ALDERMEN
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING
MARCH 28, 2023
 
PRESENT: Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor Pro-tem Karen Mosteller, Aldermen John
Allen, Robert Carroll, Lowe Davis, Tom Lombardi, and Rich Alt
STAFF PRESENT:
Bonnie Therrien, City Manager
Dorothy Dutton, Assistant City Manager/City Clerk
Travis Henley, Development Services Director
ChyAnn Ketchum, Communications/PIO
OTHERS PRESENT:
Tish Hatem, Jeanne Brown Bush, Sue Hodgin, Jason Robbins, Fred Fiss, Dick
Sloan, and several other interested citizens.
 
A) Call to Order
Mayor Hatem called the special meeting to order at 1:32 p.m.
B) Invocation
Alderman Lowe Davis provided the invocation.
C) Pledge of Allegiance
Mayor Hatem led everyone in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)
Alderman Davis made a motion to approve the agenda. Alderman Lombardi seconded
the motion. All ayes. Motion carried. Mayor Hatem made opening remarks about
the critical housing shortage. He also commented that the City does not support
losing municipal power over planning. Mayor Hatem explained that he planned to
deliver a Resolution in person to Raleigh the next day. He also stated that he
had spoken with the Mayor of Shallotte, and they will be taking the same
action.
E) Agenda
Travis Henley, the Director of Development Services approached the podium to
speak to the Board about the proposed legislation being considered. He said
there were six bills to discuss.
House Bill 252 proposes that owners of multijurisdictional properties can
decide which regulations to follow. These would typically be the County’s or
the municipality’s ETJ. This is problematic because there might be incongruent
uses between the two jurisdictions. Alderman Alt asked if a developer could buy
a parcel across the line and then have the whole property could be removed from
our control. Mr. Henley confirmed that was correct.
Senate Bill 290 has to do with Short-term Vacation Rentals. The Bill allows
local governments to enforce a maximum occupancy provisions within rental
properties. There is a statutory cap of four people per bedroom, and real
estate brokers must verify the number of bedrooms and bathrooms.
House Bill 332/Senate Bill 275 establishes a process to streamline commercial
and multifamily building plan reviews. There would be a (21) day “shot-clock”
for the initial review. If comments are made, there is an additional (15) days
allowed. But, if a third party reviews the plans and approves, the City only
has (3) days to review and approve the plans. The applicant can use any of the
Department of Insurance certified plan reviewers, or a professional engineer or
architect. But the bill does not explain the process for when inspections fail.
House Bill 294 is the Housing Choice Incentive. This program allocates $30
million in available grant funding for communities to establish and promote
multifamily, “middle housing,” and accessory dwelling units. To be eligible for
the grant, there must be at least (5) zoning districts where multifamily
housing is allowed. There is a minimum of (15) units per acre. Of all the
criteria, the municipality must meet four of the seven. Applicants are allowed
one grant every (5) years. Municipal participation is optional.
House Bill 409/Senate Bill 374 concerns accessory dwelling units. At least one
accessory dwelling unit must be allowed. Accessory dwelling units must have
less square footage than the primary structure, but there is no maximum.
Accessory dwelling units are not subject to owner occupancy requirements,
parking requirements, and cannot be tied to a conditional or special use
permit. The City cannot charge fees that would be greater than they would be
for the single-family dwelling unit. Home-owner associations are still allowed
to regulate and enforce their accessory dwelling unit standards. Setbacks can
be (5) feet or whatever is customary to other properties in the area. These
standards apply to nonconforming lots, too.
Senate Bill 317 addresses the workforce housing crisis. For these projects, the
properties must be at least (10) acres. At least 20% of the lots shall be
improved with one and two-story dwellings and conveyed as workforce housing
improved lots. Workforce housing can occur in most all zoning districts. Local
governments can still regulate residential building codes, minimum housing
codes, and subdivision regulations. Only Federal floodplain regulations can be
applied. There is a (45) day shot-clock to review plans, and after (60) days,
if no decision has been made, approval is automatically granted. The
municipality may not require a connection to the public utility operated by the
local government. The municipality cannot deny an application to serve the
project. No dimensional standards can be enforced. There are already enough co-
sponsors that this bill would pass today.
F)
Mayor Hatem stated the meeting was very helpful. The slides will be available
to the public soon. He added that he does not see the wisdom in stripping the
local governments of their power.
G)
Alderman Allen said that the proposed bills are absurd, and he hopes the
municipalities are able to fight them. Alderman Carroll commented that he can’t
believe that this is the type of things they have to fight in Southport.
Alderman Alt stated that this has to be a full-court press with the other
Mayors in the area; we have to get the COG involved. Alderman Davis said that
the proposed bills being considered; and she encouraged the Board to consider
adopting a resolution in opposition. She also asked the public to contact our
legislators. It was suggested that the public contact Senator Rabon,
Representative Charlie Miller, and Representative Frank Iler. Alderman Davis
made a motion for staff to draft a resolution, approve the resolution and
deliver it to the State. Alderman Lombardi seconded the motion. All ayes
Motioned carried.
H) Adjourn
Alderman Allen made a motion to adjourn the meeting, which was seconded by
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller. All ayes. Motion carried. Mayor Hatem adjourned the
meeting at 12:21 p.m.
 
                     _____________________________________
                     Joseph P. Hatem, M.D., M.P.H.
                     Mayor, City of Southport
 
__________________________________
Dorothy Dutton
Assistant City Manager/City Clerk
MARCH 30, 2023
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
BOARD OF ALDERMEN AND PLANNING BOARD JOINT SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING
223 E. BAY STREET
MARCH 30, 2023
 
PRESENT: Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor Pro-tem Karen Mosteller, Aldermen John
Allen, Robert Carroll, Lowe Davis, Tom Lombardi, and Rich Alt
PLANNING BOARD PRESENT: Chair Sue Hodgin, Vice Chair Will Hewett, Fred Fiss,
Scott Jones, Dick Sloan, Chris Jones
STAFF PRESENT:
Bonnie Therrien, City Manager
Dorothy Dutton, Assistant City Manager/City Clerk
Travis Henley, Development Services Director
Maureen Meehan, City Planner
Randy Jones, Community Relations Director
ChyAnn Ketchum, Communications
OTHERS PRESENT:
Brady Herman, City Attorney      Tish Hatem
Jeanne Brown Busch         Jason Robbins
Several other concerned citizens
 
A) Call to Order
Mayor Hatem called the special workshop to order at 6:03 p.m. He thanked the
Board of Aldermen and the Planning Board for attending. He also thanked City
staff and those watching from home.
B) Invocation
Alderman Lowe Davis provided the invocation.
C) Pledge of Allegiance
Mayor Hatem led everyone in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller made a motion to approve the agenda. Alderman Allen
seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried. Mayor Hatem stated that the City
Attorney prepared the material for this workshop to benefit the Aldermen and
the Planning Board. Mayor Hatem thanked Planning Board Chair Sue Hodgin and the
Planning Board for working through the many developments. The City has two
talented Planners, a seasoned Planning Board, and two skilled Planning Board
liaisons.
E) Agenda
   1.   City Attorney Brady Herman introduced himself. It is said that it is a
municipal attorney’s job to educate and advise municipal boards in statutory
decision-making, advisory, and legislative capacities. The Brough Law Firm has
provided training for most of the Boards they represent.
Attorney Herman began by stating that North Carolina is a Dillon’s Rule state,
which means that governments only have the authority that is expressly given to
us. Chapter 160D brought all of the zoning statutes together. There are many
resources available. One of the best resources is the UNC School of Government.
Planning Boards are required by statute. They are mentioned primarily in 160D-
301, 160D-501, and 160D-604.
There are four types of local government land use decisions. The Board of
Aldermen makes legislative decisions which are typically things like rezonings
and text amendments. The Board of Adjustment hears quasi-judicial matters.
These decisions are discussed in a more formal hearing, similar to a court
hearing. The Board of Adjustment is the Judge and the jury. Administrative
decisions occur by applying objective facts to pre-determined standards in the
Unified Development Ordinance. These decisions are often zoning compliance
permits, building permits, and minor site plan approvals. Advisory decisions
are non-binding recommendations given by the City Board. This decision is a
recommendation the Planning Board provides to the Board of Aldermen. Mr. Herman
showed the Review Procedures Chart, which is part of the City’s UDO.
Attorney Herman stated that City Staff are the subject matter experts. Staff
speaks to the applicants and advises the applicant on how to help their project
confirm to the UDO. Staff also writes the reports and summaries for all the
Boards. The City’s UDO includes a statement that Technical Review Committee
meetings may occur at the discretion of the Zoning Administrator. Travis Henley
spoke up to say that he fully supports scheduling a “TRC” meeting whenever it
seems there might be one needed. He includes all required offices, agencies,
and departments. The Planning Board makes recommendations on rezoning and UDO
amendments and comprehensive plans. They also recommend major subdivisions and
preliminary plats and make administrative decisions on major site plan
applications. They may also prepare and recommend ordinance amendments to the
Board of Aldermen to align with the Land Use Plan. The Planning Board is not
statutorily required to hold public hearings, but they can at their discretion.
The Planning Board is given the authority to form smaller sub-committees to
further review projects and plans. The sub-committees may consist of no more
than three Planning Board members and should be used minimally.
The Board of Aldermen must adopt a written statement that addresses the
consistency of the proposed zoning decision with the City’s Land Use Plan.
Consistency Statements are not subject to judicial review. All members are
required to vote unless there is a conflict of interest. Dismissal and recusal
should occur at the beginning of the meeting or right before that item. There
are Rules of Conduct and ethical considerations for all Boards.
The Open Meetings Laws are far-reaching and address Board members discussing
City business with other members. There should be no group site visits unless
it is advertised. Any time the Board engages in City business, the
conversations are subject to the Open Meetings Laws. Mr. Herman advised the two
Boards to avoid private meetings to discuss business. The Public Records Laws
are more about content, not the form. Alderman Alt asked whether Board members
can ask developers to do things and conduct studies that the UDO does not
require. Attorney Herman said they could ask for those things, but the Board
should not hold it against the developer. Aesthetics are more of a preference
that an objective statement. In other words, the Board should not deny a permit
because they don’t like the siding of the building.
Mr. Herman fielded other questions about alternates and their participation.
Previously, Staff requested that Alternate members sit with some separation
between them and the full members to help clarify who is eligible to make
motions and vote. The Planning Board Chair stated that the Alternates are
members of the Planning Board, too, and she wants them to be able to comment.
Attorney Herman stated there was no harm in them participating, but the
Alternates sitting at one end of the tables would provide enough separation.
Chair Hodgin also asked for advice about responding to incorrect information
that gets published. City Manager Therrien offered to act as a buffer between
the Board and any media. Attorney Herman stated that was not his area of
expertise, but he would happily look into it further. There were no other
questions from the Planning Board.
F) Mayor’s Comments
   Mayor Hatem stated that it was an excellent meeting. He explained that it
was Doctor’s Day, so he was wearing a red carnation. He thanked all the doctors
for all they do.
G) Board Comments
   Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller thanked Attorney Herman and City Staff for arranging
the training.
Alderman Lombardi thanked everyone and wished Mayor Hatem a Happy Doctor’s Day.
Alderman Davis stated that she learned a lot and thanked Mr. Herman. Alderman
Alt suggested holding sessions like this more often. Alderman Carroll thanked
Staff and suggested that sessions like this be a part of onboarding for new
Board members. Alderman Allen said it was a great presentation.
H) Adjourn
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller motioned to adjourn the meeting, which Alderman Carroll
seconded. All ayes. Motion carried. Mayor Hatem adjourned the meeting at 7:29
p.m.
 
                     _____________________________________
                     Joseph P. Hatem, MD, MPH.
                     Mayor, City of Southport
 
__________________________________
Dorothy Dutton
Assistant City Manager/City Clerk
APRIL 11, 2023
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
BOARD OF ALDERMEN
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
SPECIAL AGENDA REVIEW WORKSHOP
INDIAN TRAIL MEETING HALL
APRIL 11, 2023
 
PRESENT: Mayor Hatem, Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller, Aldermen Allen, Alt, Carroll,
Davis, and Lombardi
STAFF PRESENT:
Bonnie Therrien, City Manager
Dorothy Dutton, Assistant City Manager/City Clerk
Travis Henley, Director of Development Services
Tom Stanley, Public Services Director
Ellie Pittenger, Electrical Superintendent
Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
OTHERS PRESENT:
David Cheatwood, First Tryon Financial Advisors, Joined Remotely
Walter Goldsmith, First Tryon Financial Advisors, Joined Remotely
Several members of the public.
A)   Call to Order
Mayor Hatem called the meeting to order at 9:03 a.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Lowe Davis provided the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
Mayor Hatem led everyone in reciting the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Approval of Agenda
Alderman Allen made a motion to approve the agenda with the addition of the
budget amendments. Alderman Lombardi seconded. All ayes. Motion carried.
E)   Agenda
   1.   City Manager Bonnie Therrien thanked Walter and David from First Tryon
Financial Advisors for joining us. She explained that the two advisors, Melanie
Trexler, Paul Billow (Bond Counsel), Assistant City Manager Dorrie Dutton, and
herself had recently had a meeting with the Local Government Commission (LGC).
The purpose of the meeting was to discuss funding the additional $27 million
that is needed to pay for the Mulberry Branch Wastewater Treatment Plant
Expansion. Originally, County Manager Steve Stone wanted the Board of Aldermen
to establish an agreed upon maximum debt level. But now it seems that the LGC
will not allow the City to take on any more debt. Even if the County funds the
project and the City reimburses them, the LGC will not approve the debt.
Instead, the LGC encourages the City and County to move forward with the Merger
Feasibility Study and merge the water and sewer systems. The City will likely
have to upgrade some of the system before the County will accept the system.
Additionally, the County was uncertain of the City’s desire to merge systems.
The County asked the City Board of Aldermen to adopt a resolution that stated
their intention. The City was awarded a low interest loan for wastewater
rehabilitation. That will allow the City to start identifying weak areas in the
system and make repairs and improvements. Mayor Hatem stated that the Board was
definitely interested in merging utilities, and this was something they had
started working on in 2017. There were some Board comments about favoring the
merger. The Financial Advisors asked if they should re-work the plan? David
Cheatwood said they would take out the numbers and add the new $8.5 million.
Mr. Cheatwood stated that the LGC was almost cryptic will the amount of
information they were providing.
Alderman Alt asked if there was a timeline for when the merger feasibility
study would be complete. City Manager Therrien said she would prepare a
Resolution and add it to the April 13, 2023 agenda.
Alderman Allen said that as humans, the uncertainty was unfortunate, but he is
trying to find the good news in this. Mayor Hatem said he is optimistic that
the merger is best for the City. Alderman Carroll stated he supports the merger
but is unsure about the additional $8.5 million loan without having a set plan
for it. Alderman Allen added that the plan would be laid out with the merger
feasibility study.
Ms. Therrien reiterated that she will write a resolution for the next meeting
that includes support for the merger, accepting the $8.5 million, and working
with the financial advisors. Before any funding is released, there must be an
engineering plan in place. In the meantime, the City Manager said she would
check with Wooten Engineering to see if they could approximate how far the $18
million will take the City on repairs and replacements. Once we merge, the
County will accept the debt.
   2.   Melanie Trexler approached the podium to review the Budget Amendments
proposed for the next Board meeting. The first one was a transfer because solid
waste account had gone over budget by $45,000. She proposed that $20,000 be
transferred from the Board’s budget, and $25,000 would be transferred from the
Buildings and Grounds budget. There was another transfer between Administration
and Finance just to clean things up. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller asked what cause
the overage in the solid waste budget. Ms. Trexler explained that there was a
lot of extra collections made including during festivals and other larger scale
commercial dumpster pickups.
The next budget amendment was to re-close out a project ordinance. There were
additional payables at the end, and the Auditor suggested re-closing it to make
sure they are covered. There was a budget amendment for the Fire Department to
appropriate revenues for expenditures. Ms. Dutton stated the Taylor Field
project budget amendment was to transfer funds back into the Part-F line that
were originally used to cover engineering costs. Part-F grant funds cannot be
used for engineering costs. There should be a balance in the PART-F fund line
item.
   3.   Ellie Pittenger, the City’s electrical superintendent, stated that he
and the City Manager had been researching possible grants that are available
for installing electric car charging stations. A Level 3 charger would be
similar to what you might see at a Walmart. It puts a larger burden on the
sponsors’ electrical system. A Level 2 charging station would allow two
vehicles to park for 2-4 hours. That provides a good amount of charge, and
there is no heating of the wires. There is a place that sems feasible on E.
Nash Street. Mr. Pittenger suggested installing one there and finding another
place to install one. Another place might be near the water tower, on the
grassy areas. To have two chargers it costs about $9590, and then is about $285
a year. The machines accept credit cards, so the City would get a small amount
of revenue back. Alderman Alt suggested that an ordinance be adopted stating
that cars can only park there while they are charging. He also expressed some
concern about the chargers draining the City’s electrical system. Mr. Pittenger
agreed and suggested that load management devices be installed on the chargers.
City Manager Therrien stated that this project was not on their upcoming
Regular meeting agenda, it was merely to gauge the interest of the Board before
pursuing grants.
   4.   Chief Coring explained that he had a request from the churches to have
an officer present at some of their events. Usually, vendors pay for that
service. City Manager Therrien said the City can’t afford to not charge for the
extra service. City Staff is proposing: $40/day (for-profit organizations);
$30/day (non-profits); $21.50/hour for vehicles; $25/day for vehicles (non-
profits). The Town of Leland uses an app that helps keep all the extra events,
times, payments organized. Officers and staff would get notifications about
opportunities in the area and could accept the extra work without getting Chief
Coring or Major Burke involved.
There was some discussion about how the Sheriff’s office handles requests.
Chief Coring stated that the County was going to use the same app they
described but tabled it for the time being. And the County charges $35
regardless of the group. Another good thing about the company and app, is that
they are covered with liability insurance, and the officers would still be
covered by the City.
   5.   City Attorney Brady Herman explained the Social Media Policy was
important for this Board, as well as future Boards. He added that the proposed
policy does a good job of balancing the 1st amendment rights and the high
standard of being a public official. The policy does not apply to any personal
account, only professional accounts that are tailored to their public
positions. Alderman Davis stated that on principal she is opposed to have a
policy. She added that no matter how noble it may be, it violates rights. She
will oppose it if it comes to a vote.
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller said she felt it was important to set standards.
Alderman Davis asked who decides what is inappropriate? And, when would the
Board stop the public from speaking?
Alderman Allen said that was ridiculous. The public is not the same as elected
officials.
Creating a social media policy has been discussed for years; even if it is just
used as a training tool. Mayor Hatem explained that the policy would not be on
their agenda for several months; but the voice of the people has never been
limited by the Board. Changes in technology and social media area driving the
social media policy.
Mayor Hatem stated there would be a quick break; and the meeting would resume
at 11:00 a.m.
   6.   Travis Henley, the Director of Development Services addressed the Board
about the proposed amendment to Chapter 9 in the Code of Ordinances pertaining
to noise violations. The proposed changes are to help the police, code
enforcement and others make decisions when it comes to noise. There are certain
noises that are strictly prohibited. Alderman Carroll asked about loud
generators, and whether it could be required to provide a casing around them.
Alderman Alt stated that encasing generators causes too much heat and creates
dangerous gases. There was some discussion about establishments hosting live
music. Alderman Alt mentioned the ordinance that stated sound would be in
violation if audible 100 feet away from its source. He said people should use
common sense. Alderman Allen agreed that he would like to see Chapter 9.93
removed, because everything is audible at 100 feet. He asked if using decibels
would be feasible. Major Burke explained that using decibels requires more
technical equipment and training. Major Burke recommended not extending the
distance out more than 500-600 feet. The amendment is a work in progress and
staff would bring it back again before it comes to a vote.
   7.   Mayor Hatem stated that all cemeteries are sacred, including the
cemeteries in Southport. He added that the City needs to have competitive wages
to have staff to maintain the cemeteries. The City should replace street signs,
mow, and weed eat. He suggested that the Beautification Committee be included
in this goal of allowing our cemeteries to age gracefully. He added that he
would like to form a committee and appoint two liaisons. All meetings will be
posted. He asked Alderman Davis and Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller to serve as the
liaisons. The Board directed staff to publish notices of the meetings. Alderman
Lombardi asked if he could also participate.
   8.   Assistant City Manager Dutton reviewed the proposed amendments to the
Boards/Committees/Commissions ordinances. The purpose of the amendments is to
clarify term lengths, the application process, interviews and also when terms
expire. There were some comments and revision requests form the Board. The
Board asked to remove it from the upcoming agenda until revisions were made and
the Board had the opportunity to review it again.
   9.   Next, the Board reviewed the agenda for the April 13, 2023 meeting.
There were no questions on the Consent agenda. The City Manager informed the
Board that eight bid packets were received for the space needs study. The Staff
group interviewed four firms, and they all recommend selecting Moseley
Architects. The Board will be asked to select them at the April Board meeting.
Development Services Director, Travis Henley, reviewed the plats that were on
the agenda.
There were some questions about permit-choice and tree removal ordinances. The
Board asked if the Oakton project had clear-cut the trees, and why? Mr. Henley
said that sometimes the grading work necessitates clear cutting. The Board
wanted someone to say that it is necessary. City Engineer, Tom Zilinek, added
that he has been reviewing this project. Alderman Alt asked Mr. Zilinek to go
back out to the site and make sure that the neighboring properties are not
being flooded. Alderman Allen wanted to verify the width of Ingress, to ensure
that it was as small as possible, and to retain as many trees as possible. Mr.
Henley explained that in order to meet the 100-year stormwater protection
requirements, grading is the best way to prevent the neighbors’ properties from
being flooded. The Oakton plan meets the requirements of the UDO, and the Board
must approve it if it meets the requirements.
Travis Henley described Lookout Point as splitting one lot into two lots. There
was no questions.
The proposed Highland Park is an older project and is subject to the older
versions of the ordinances.
Next, there was some discussion about alleyway abandonment. Mr. Henley
explained that after several committee meetings, the Planning Board was unable
to make a recommendation. Alderman Alt suggested that eventually, the City look
at all the alleyways to determine a reasonable plan and use. Alleyway
abandonment is not an urgent matter and there are far too many other ongoing
projects.
The next item on the agenda was the selection of a contractor for the Kingsley
Park repair. Ms. Hemphill recommends contracting with McPherson Marine. They
are local and have done a lot of work for the City.
Alderman Alt and City Manager Bonnie Therrien explained the request for a
build-out analysis for the City. Alderman Alt added that without knowing how
many vacant lots are remaining in Southport, how can the Board make decisions
about future development? Ms. Therrien added that the City needs a
comprehensive plan and a build out study. The comprehensive plan is more
important, but it will take up to two years to complete. In the meantime, the
build out study can be completed. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller said she preferred
doing the comprehensive plan because it prioritizes goals. She also said she
thought that City staff at one time had done a count of vacant lots. Alderman
Alt said the information collected in the build-out study could also be used in
the comprehensive plan.
The City Manager and Finance Department explained the proposed credit card
policy, the proposed limits on cards, and the new credit card company. There
was also some discussion about charging fees when using a credit card to make
utility payments.
Finally, City Manager Bonnie Therrien explained that City staff needed
direction regarding the traffic pattern in the Yacht Basin. Alderman Allen
suggested reversing the traffic but keeping it one-way. Fire Chief Drew said
that will cause more problems when it floods. The recommendation from City
staff is to take it back to two-way traffic. Ms. Therrien said that a decision
must be made at the following Board meeting, it cannot be tabled again.
F)
Mayor Hatem said that it had been a great meeting.
G)
No one on the Board of Aldermen had additional comments or questions.
H)
Alderman Allen motioned to adjourn the meeting. Alderman Lombardi seconded the
motion. All ayes. Motion carried. Mayor Hatem adjourned the meeting at 1:29
p.m.
 
                     _____________________________________
                     Joseph P. Hatem, MD, MPH.
                     Mayor, City of Southport
 
__________________________________
Dorothy Dutton
Assistant City Manager/City Clerk
City of Southport
APRIL 13, 2023
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
Board of Aldermen Regular Meeting Minutes
April 13, 2023
223 E. Bay Street
Southport Community Building
6:00 p.m.
 
Present:    Mayor Hatem, Mayor Pro tem Karen Mosteller, Aldermen Thomas
Lombardi, Rich Alt, Lowe Davis, Robert Carroll, and John Allen
Staff Present:
   Bonnie Therrien, Interim City Manager
   Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
   Randy Jones, Communications/Tourism Director
   ChyAnn Ketchum, Communications and Public Information Officer
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   Ralph Treadway, Battalion Chief
   Todd Coring, Police Chief
   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
   Kelly Garrido, Police Officer
   Brandon Stevens, Deputy Finance Officer
   Paul Gross, Interim Finance Officer
   Brady Herman, City Attorney
Others Present: Jim Powell, Will Hewett, Sue Hodgin, Eliot Duke with the State
Port Pilot, Marjorie Jones, Jenna Fontaine, Jeanne Brown Busch, Maria and Paul
Swenson, Tracy Beaulieu, Andrew Boyd, and Josh Bennett with Moseley Architects
Meetings are open to the public. Complete audio/video is available on the
City's website or can be requested from the City Clerk's office.
A.)
   Mayor Hatem called the meeting to order at 6:01 p.m. He welcomed everyone to
the meeting.
B.)
   Mayor Hatem announced that Reverend Alderman Lowe Davis would provide the
invocation.
C.)
   Mayor Hatem led the pledge of allegiance.
D.)
   Mayor Hatem announced that Southport was the first Board to send a
resolution in opposition to the recently proposed bills including HB 317 . He
personally delivered the Resolution to Senator Rabon and Representative Miller.
He asked Ms. Dutton to call on the individuals who signed up for public
comment.
Jody Wilmoth, a resident of Southport, explained that he was frustrated about
the cemeteries. There are rules that dictate what can be done on the property
and what cannot. The Board is who sets the rules, and City staff follows the
rules and director of the Board and Management. He said that staff is not
allowed to cut grass around a headstone. It seems the Board is allowing one
person dictate what the City does with the cemeteries.
Tracey Beaulieu, resident of 206 W. Nash Street, stated that she hoped the
Yacht Basin would be a pedestrian, bicycle and golf cart road. Then, she went
on to discuss the rights-of-ways in the City. She understands that access is
important, but she has done a lot of work on her property to make it look good.
She asked if the City was going to make people cut trees down? Will the City
make more parking? She suggested that City staff and the Board think about the
character of the City.
Andrew Boyd, from 828 N. Caswell Ave., explained there is a 4-inch drop off
between the sidewalk and the road on Howe Street. He stated that it is
dangerous. In the March 7, 2023, Code Enforcement report mentioned an A-frame
“sandwich board” sign. He hasn’t been able to locate that section in the UDO.
But he has seen at least three businesses use A-frame signs and leave them out
overnight. Everyone should follow the same rules. But back in the January
report, the Code Enforcement officer’s report is unacceptable, and practically
called Mr. Boyd a liar. Mr. Boyd said he realizes that all the departments want
more staff in the upcoming budget, but he asked the Board to sharpen their
pencils and try to focus on what things are really important. He also asked why
the utilities are increasing, when there is so much development in the area.
Jenna Fontaine, a resident of Rivermist, said she was most concerned with
pedestrian safety. She prefers the way the Yacht Basin is currently, but it
needs improved signage. She also suggested that instead of taking the traffic
through the residential areas, why can’t it be routed back to Moore Street.
There could be signs that route people back that way, and towards the ferry.
Ginny Prunty, resident of 1509 Dutchman Creek Rd, stated that she is part of
the No High Density Southport (NHDS) group. She thanked the Board for the
opportunity to speak on behalf of NHDS and appreciates the Board’s efforts to
oppose the current bills being considered. She said that NHDS has been working
hard to educate the public about how harmful the bills would be to Southport.
They have also called and continue to call the state leaders to oppose the
bills. It seems if approved, the bills would be a dream for developers and
realtors. She urged the public and Board to pay close attention to how the
bills are written, they can be deceiving. HB 675, if approved, would eliminate
ETJs. ETJs were created about WWII to help manage all the diverse land uses.
NHDS was told that Resolutions from small communities won’t make a difference,
but it really has. The news stations have picked up the story and the State
leaders have said their phones are ringing off the hook. She urged the City to
keep drawing attention to the bills.
Pat Kirkman, a resident at 119 Park Avenue, stated she would be remiss if she
didn’t say she was hopeful that there has finally been efforts made regarding
the cemeteries.
Maria Swenson, resident of 107 N. Atlantic Avenue, passed out pictures to the
Board, showing two large vehicles parked in opposite directions across Yacht
Basin Drive. She further stated that the City is causing the business owners to
lose money by detouring visitors and allowing only one-way traffic. Some
drivers get frustrated and come back to visit the restaurants and
establishments in the Yacht Basin. She said that the citizens and business
owners have “made” the Yacht Basin, and that is why she is confused why no one
will listen to the business owners. She asked the Board to listen to them, and
that a vote is made.
Craig Blanks, resident at 319 W. Bay Street, explained that he manages six
pieces of property in the Yacht Basin. He is down there between 80-100 hours a
week. The current traffic pattern is not working, we need to put it back the
way it was before the pandemic. The Yacht Basin needs more lighting,
particularly the intersection of Lord and Bay Streets.
Paul Swenson, resident of 107 N. Atlantic Avenue, explained that there are
eight other businesses in the Yacht Basin that would be damaged if the traffic
is reversed. He added that if he were Potter’s, he would be upset. Mr. Swenson
went on to explain there are three types of tides: 1. One high tide where no
water gets into the street; 2. One when the whole street in inundated with
flood water up Bay and Yacht Basin Drive; and 3. One when the water comes in by
Fishy Fishy, moves towards the Mullet and Flava’s and then stops. Then he said
that on top of all that, the waterline in the Yacht Basin has been repaired for
the 4th time in a year.
Juantana Frink, a resident on Lord Street, wanted to address alleyway
abandonment. She is asking the Board to deny the request. She mentioned that
good things come out of the alleys. Her mother in law, who is now 89 years old,
used the alley to carry ice, but they are also nice for school-aged children to
play safely.
Adam Steadman, a resident on Dutchman Creek Road, wanted to address the
upcoming budget. He stressed the importance of adjusting the ad valorem tax
rate to reflect the new valuations. The valuation has been significant. He was
told by the Brunswick County Tax Department, that the average increase in
Southport was 44%. He asked that the Board keep the taxpayers in mind. Ms.
Dutton read a statement that was submitted by Fred Fiss, a resident on Atlantic
Avenue.
Mayor Hatem read the ethics statement.
E.) Approval of Agenda
Alderman Carroll made a motion to approve the agenda after removing 4.) Oakton
Subdivision, 10.) Amendments to Chapter 2 and Chapter 13 and adding a change
order for Engineering services to the agenda. Alderman Davis seconded the
motion. All ayes. Motion carried.
F.) Special Recognition
   1.   Police Chief Todd Coring and Major Burke said they were there to
recognize an officer that was selected by her peers as Officer of the Year. The
department is very proud of her. Police Officer, Kelly Garrido is a veteran;
she served as a Police Officer in Wilmington, and lives in the City. Chief
Coring and Major Burke presented her with a plaque.
   2.   Mayor Hatem read the proclamation for Arbor Day. Scott Len, the Chair
of the Forestry Committee came forward to accept the proclamation. Mr. Len
reminded everyone to attend the Arbor Day presentation at Taylor Field.
G.) Approval of Consent Agenda-
Mayor Hatem summarized the items on the Consent Agenda.
   1.   Budget Amendment #3: Howe Street Project
   2.   Budget Amendment #4: Taylor Field Project
   3.    Resolution Amending a Closed Project Ordinance: Howe Street Project
   4.   Approval of the Budget Reconciliation Transfer
   5.   Amendment to Article 6: Filming Ordinance
   6.   Special Meeting Minutes February 27, 2023
   7.   Special Board Meeting Minutes March 1, 2023
   8.   Regular Agenda Review Meeting Minutes March 3, 2023
   9.   Regular Board of Aldermen Meeting Minutes March 9, 2023
   10.   Special Joint Meeting Minutes March 28, 2023
   11.   Special Joint Meeting Minutes March 30, 2023
Alderman Lombardi made a motion to approve the Consent Agenda. Mayor Pro-tem
Mosteller seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.
H.) Agenda
   1.   Mr. Jim Powell provided an update on the Bald Head Island
Transportation. He said that the whole transportation system has become
political. Mr. Mitchell’s Estate cannot be closed until the ferry system sale
is complete. The Village of Bald Head Island has the right of first refusal and
have refused it twice. But the Village seems to be holding the process up. Mr.
Powell stated that he would be going to court over the situation. And it seems
that a company in Raleigh might be purchasing the ferry system for $68 million
but would hire the authority to run the operations.
   2.   City Manager, Bonnie Therrien explained that the City requested bids
for a Police Department/City Hall space needs study. There is $50,000 allocated
towards the study. The City received eight bids and interviewed four firms.
Unanimously, the selection committee recommends selecting Moseley Architects.
John Bennett from Moseley was present if there were any questions. Ms. Therrien
added that it wasn’t all about their history, Moseley’s group seems easy to
work with. Alderman Alt made a recommendation to contract with Moseley
Architects for the Police and City Hall space needs study. Alderman Carroll and
Mayor Pro- tem Mosteller seconded. All ayes. Motion carried. 
   3.   City Manager, Bonnie Therrien reviewed the status of the Wastewater
Treatment Plant project. There is a gap between what the City was approved to
borrow, and the actual cost based on the bid packets that were received.
Brunswick County asked the Board of Aldermen to decide how much debt they were
willing to accept. City Staff was working with Financial Advisors to explore
revenue bonds. But recently, City Staff and the First Tryon Financial Advisors
met virtually with the Local Government Commission (LGC) to discuss levels of
debt. While they were very vague, they implied that the City would not be
approved to accept any more debt than what was already approved ($30,000). The
LGC suggested we finish the Merger Feasibility Study with Brunswick County and
encourage the County to accept our infrastructure. It was recommended that the
City adopt a Resolution in support of the merger of utilities and also gives
authorization to City Staff to go to the LGC for approval of the $8.5 million
loan for infrastructure. Mayor Hatem read the Resolution out aloud. Alderman
Davis motioned to adopt the Resolution, as presented. Alderman Lombardi
seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried. Ms. Therrien added that the
County would be working with us to figure out the difference in rates.
   4.   The City Manager added that Brent Lockamy with Brunswick County reached
out to explain that the engineers of the wastewater treatment plant need more
money to cover the rebid, and oversight of the project. The County will pay the
fees first, but the City will have to reimburse. The engineers had to re-write
the bid package. It is a lot of money. Alderman Allen asked where it would be
funded from? Ms. Therrien said it would be covered by our State Revolving Loan
that we already have. We just can’t access the money until after a contractor
is selected. Alderman Allen approved the increase in payment to the engineers
for the wastewater treatment plant. Alderman Lombardi seconded the motion. All
ayes. Motion carried.
   5.   Mo Meehan, City Planner, described the Lookout Point Subdivision to the
Board. The owners are requesting to divide the property from one parcel into
two parcels. The Preliminary plat was approved in January 2022. The property is
zoned R-10 and has a private Right of Way. The Final Plat is in accordance with
the preliminary plat and all standards of the UDO. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller
motioned to approve the final plat. Alderman Allen seconded. All ayes. Motion
carried. 
   6.   City Manager Bonnie Therrien explained the next item was the final plot
for Highland Park. There are nineteen single-family lots. The preliminary plat
was approved in 2020 under a previous ordinance. The final plot complies with
all standards. A performance bond will be allowed for the sidewalks, and the
plat will not be signed and recorded without the City first receiving the bond.
There was some discussion about the wastewater infrastructure in the
subdivision. The sewer that serves these nineteen homes will be transferred
from the developer to the Homeowners Association. Jason Robbins addressed the
Board to explain that the responsibility for maintenance and repair of the
sewer lines will be a part of the covenants of the subdivision. Alderman Davis
motioned to approve the Highland Park final plat project once the performance
bond for the sidewalks is submitted and the covenants for the subdivision
include the maintenance/repair of the wastewater infrastructure for
subdivision. Alderman Allen seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried. 
   7.   City Planner, Mo Meehan described the request for partial alleyway
abandonment. The Planning Board subcommittee met three times to review the idea
but were not able to make a recommendation. If the Board of Aldermen was
interested, City Staff could compose a Resolution of Intent to Abandon the
alleyway for their consideration at a future meeting. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller
made a motion to not abandon the alleyway. Alderman Alt added that alleyways
have more importance that the movement of ice to homes; they are part of the
culture here in Southport. Alderman Davis thanked Ms. Frink for educating the
Board of the significance of alleyways. Alderman Davis seconded the motion to
not abandon the alleyway. All ayes. Motion carried.
   8.   Assistant City Manager Dorothy Dutton explained that the City was
awarded FEMA funds to repair Kingsley Park. Although the Parks and Recreation
Director was not able to attend the Board meeting, she still requests that the
Board accept her recommendation to award the project to McPherson Marine. Mayor
Pro-tem Mosteller motioned to approve the selection of McPherson Marine to make
the repairs to Kingsley Park. Alderman Lombardi seconded the motion. All ayes.
Motion carried. 
   9.   Alderman Alt explained that he thinks it would be helpful for the City
to hire the Council of Governments to do a build-out study for the City.
Alderman Alt made a motion to contract with the CFCOG to complete the build-out
study. Alderman Carroll seconded the motion. Alderman Davis suggested the Board
wait a month or two to see what happens with the proposed legislation. Alderman
Carroll said the state could have more bills like this next year. Mayor Pro-tem
Mosteller said that it is just raw data, so it couldn’t hurt anything. All ayes
except for Alderman Davis. Motion carried by majority.
   10.   Brandon Stevens, the Deputy Finance Officer explained the new credit
card policy, and the new credit card company. Each Department Head will have a
card and can check their own balance. There was some discussion about what
staff uses the cards for. The proposed company is First National Bank, and the
City will actually earn some money back. Alderman Davis motioned to approve the
new credit card company and policy. Alderman Carroll seconded the motion. All
ayes. Motion carried.
   11.   Alderman Carroll stated that he would like to hear a presentation from
City Staff about the Yacht Basin traffic pattern. Ms. Therrien said that public
safety is her #1 priority. She explained that Chief Coring, Chief Drew, Tom
Stanley, and Tom Zilinek went to the Yacht Basin to assess the situation. They
recommended it go back to two-way traffic. No matter what the decision is,
Staff is prepared to start working on it the next day by adding signage,
stripping, etc. General Statutes establish the governing board as the traffic
authority, and so it is the Aldermen’s decision. Chief Drew explained that he
suggested two-way because of the tidal flooding. With a lot of traffic, the
Yacht Basin traffic makes for tight traveling, but it has been that way for
years. He said he grew up in Southport and only remembers two incidents in the
Yacht Basin. There were some questions from the Board about the businesses in
the Yacht Basin. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller mentioned all the special studies and
considerations that have been made in the area, and said she is in favor of
keeping the traffic one-way. She suggested re-stripping and relocating a
wayfinding sign. Alderman Alt added that the City needs to do a better job of
maintaining the Yacht Basin and there are not enough votes to make it two-way
traffic at the moment.
City Manager Therrien declared that she had never seen a Board so fearful of
going against Staff recommendation. She encouraged the Board not to ever worry
about going against Staff.
Mayor Hatem reiterated that it is the Board’s job to make decisions. They
should listen to the information presented and use their wisdom. Mayor Pro-tem
Mosteller motioned to leave the traffic in the Yacht Basin one-way, but to add
some additional signage and stripping. Alderman Lombardi seconded the motion.
In favor was Alderman Lombardi, Alderman Allen, Alderman Alt, and Mayor Pro-tem
Mosteller. Opposed was Alderman Davis and Alderman Carroll. Motion carried by
majority.
   12.   Alderman Allen explained there were three vacancies on the Planning
Board. He stated all the candidates were excellent, and it is amazing there is
so much talent here in Southport. The interview committee would like to keep
Christopher Jones as the ETJ Alternate Member position. Retired land planner,
Roy Pender is recommended for the City-Full position and Kevin Locklin, a
retired attorney from Manassas, VA, is recommended for the City alternate
position. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller made a motion to accept the recommendations
as presented. Alderman Davis seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.
I.) Manager's Report
City Manager Bonnie Therrien thanked the Fire, Police and Community Relations
Departments for a successful weekend. She read through a list of the employees
who are celebrating a work-anniversary. She also commented that the weather is
supposed to be bad the next day, so they will have to postpone the Yacht Basin
work until the following week.
J.) Committee Reports
Alderman Alt stated that he and Ellie Pittenger will be making the trip to
Wilson, NC for the ElectriCities meeting.
Alderman Davis reminded everyone of the Arbor Day event on April 28th.
Alderman Lombardi reported that the Beautification Committee had a busy clean
up. They also painted the jail sign, three signs at Smithville Burial Grounds
and John Smith Cemetery.
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller reminded everyone the Planning Board was the following
Thursday at 6:00 p.m. She hopes that everyone is enjoying Taylor Field.
Mayor Hatem reported that the ABC Board met the night before. Sales are up 10%.
There is a meeting planned so that new Board members can meet the staff of the
ABC store.
K.) Mayor's Report
Mayor Hatem announced the Southport Unity Committee event was the previous
Saturday. One of the kids he knew from Elementary School had their kids there!
The Unity Committee has a festival at Caviness Park this upcoming Saturday.
Budget workshops are scheduled for April 21st and 24th. He also wanted to
announce that it is World Autism Awareness Month. Mayor Hatem thanked the Board
and Staff.
L.) Staff Reports
All staff reports were included in the Board packet.
M.) Board Comments
Alderman Allen thanked the Mayor and other Board members for their leadership
in getting information out to the public about the possible legislation. He
added that the State isn’t really concerned about what local Board’s think, but
they will listen to the voters.
Alderman Alt added that citizens have a gazillion votes. They are the ones that
have great sway with the legislators. He heard that the state was overwhelmed
by the number of callers opposing the bills. He also stated that recently, he
met with the local Habitat for Humanity Director. The cost of land in Southport
is very high. He said we may have to work with Brunswick County to promote
workforce housing near Southport.
Alderman Davis said there is an anecdote that says voters have short memories.
That is not true. She encouraged everyone to read the article in the State Port
Pilot about the runaway pig.
Alderman Lombardi said he was glad the state was inundated with calls from
Southport about the bills.
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller said the also wanted the public to be aware of some
other bills-SB667, and SB675. She encouraged the Board and citizens to read
about these and how they would impact Southport.
Mayor Hatem said he will continue to work with the regional Mayors to promote
local authority.
N.) Adjourn
Alderman Lombardi made a motion to adjourn the meeting, which was seconded by
Alderman Davis. All ayes. Motion carried. Mayor Hatem adjourned the meeting at
8:53 p.m.
 
                     _______________________________________
                     Joseph P. Hatem, M.D. M.P.H.
                     Mayor, City of Southport
 
______________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
Assistant City Manager
APRIL 21, 2023
SPECIAL BUDGET WORKSHOP
BOARD OF ALDERMEN
SPECIAL BUDGET WORKSHOP
INDIAN TRAIL MEETING HALL
113 W. MOORE STREET
APRIL 21, 2023
 
PRESENT: Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor Pro-tem Karen Mosteller, Aldermen John
Allen, Robert Carroll, Lowe Davis, Tom Lombardi, and Rich Alt
STAFF PRESENT:
Bonnie Therrien, City Manager
Dorothy Dutton, Assistant City Manager/City Clerk
Patti Fortuna, Human Resources Director
ChyAnn Ketchum, Communications/PIO
Melanie Trexler, Finance Director
Brandon Stevens, Deputy Finance Officer
Paul Gross, Interim Finance Director
Bob Jarvis, City Engineer
OTHERS PRESENT:
Chad Huff with Allegacy Benefits Solution, Tish Hatem, and a couple of other
interested citizens.
 
A) Call to Order
Mayor Hatem called the special workshop to order at 9:01 a.m. He thanked the
City staff for all the hard work in getting everything ready to start budget
planning.
B) Invocation
Alderman Lowe Davis provided the invocation.
C) Pledge of Allegiance
Mayor Hatem led everyone in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)
Alderman Allen made a motion to approve the agenda. Alderman Lombardi seconded
the motion. All ayes. Motion carried. Mayor Hatem made opening remarks about
the budget being the monetary reflection of the City. He said the Board wants
to provide quality service to the citizens, consider the revaluations by
Brunswick County, think “green” for Alderman Davis, and be mindful of the
health and safety of the citizens and the employees.
E) Agenda
   1.   Mayor Hatem asked Mr. Chad Huff to come to the podium for his
presentation on the employee benefits. Mr. Huff provided a comparison of how
the City of Southport stacks up to other municipalities, and we are above
average. The demographics and type of insurance claims the City employees have
had over the last year dictates what the rates will be. He also negotiated for
a lower renewal percentage. The City provides medical, a health savings plan,
dental, vision, short-term disability, voluntary long-term disability, basic
life and accidental death coverage, and the employee assistance program. Mr.
Huff mentioned that some companies might look like they are giving us a
discount, but it would only be for the first year of switching to that company.
Afterwards, the rates would likely be much higher, so it is his recommendation
to stay with Medcost through the NCLM.
There was some discussion about offering partial coverage to offset the cost of
a spouse’s or child’s coverage. The Board asked staff to write up a total
compensation statement that shows the salary and the cost of all the benefits
provided. Mr. Huff also mentioned that sometimes, dependents are still eligible
for Obamacare coverage. There will be an open enrollment period for new
employees, and current employees who want to make changes to their plan.
   2.   Melanie Trexler, Finance Director, reviewed the fund balance page
towards the back of the budget packet. She thanked the Department Heads for
maintaining their budgets. She said in her eight years, the City has weathered
five big storms and six City Managers. The City staff has grown from forty
people to ninety, and 179 volunteers! The City is in a really good position
moving forward, at 61% fund balance at the end of 2022. She mentioned the fund
balance prediction sheet and said she thinks the fund balance will be around $4
million at the end of calendar year 2023. Bonnie Therrien introduced the newest
City Engineer, Bob Jarvis. Mr. Jarvis will be focusing on the Capital
Improvement Plan and overseeing the Parks and Recreation projects.
The City Manager explained that one penny on the tax rate is equal to
$142,445.00. The Local Government Commission recommends keeping the fund
balance at no less than 30%.
   3.   Chief Coring addressed the Board to update them on the Police
Department and the proposed budget. He said there are (16) sworn officers. All
calls get dispatched through the Brunswick County dispatch center. He mentioned
their mission statement that references integrity, professionalism, and
service. Chief Coring reviewed their programs including Safe Sanctuary, We-
Care program, citizen ride alongs, golf cart registrations, and shop with a
cop. The Police Department is fully staffed, but they don’t want to be a
stepping stone for officers. It can be hard to retain officers because the
department is small. Salaries are more comparable now. During the day, there
are five officers on duty and two officers working overnight. Equipment
training for the officers has increased to every other month. Officers now have
access to a wellness tool to help with sleeping, PTSD, stress and more. The
department is working on accreditation with the NCLM. When one officer in the
US acts poorly, in truly affects officers throughout the nation. The City
Manager said that she was pleased by the diversity of the Southport Police
Department. Chief Coring mentioned the request for two new vehicles. They cost
about $45,000 each, and then it is about $15,000 to upfit them with the safety
features, decals, etc. There has to be a prisoner compartment to protect the
officer and other individuals.
Alderman Davis asked if being accredited would open the City up for more grant
opportunities, and Chief Coring said that it would, more than likely. Ms.
Therrien added that the location of the Police Department might cause problems
for the accreditation process. Chief Coring said that his view of the Police
Department is that they are guardians and citizens. He wants the department to
be approachable, and part of the fabric of the community. Mayor Hatem thanked
Chief Coring and the Police Department for serving the community and being
there when they are needed. Chief Coring said that he is most proud of the
women and men who serve. He introduced Detective Burgess to the Board and said
that he is a rising star in the department.
Mayor Hatem dismissed the meeting for a fifteen minute break.
   4.   Public Services Director, Tom Stanley and City Engineer Tom Zilinek,
approached the podium. He was going to review the Buildings and Grounds budget
first. He first mentioned that the Northwoods Cemetery needs to be surveyed.
The department is also requesting a building/property assessment of all the
City’s buildings. They are requesting $150,000 for that, but they think it will
end up being less. There was some discussion about cemetery maintenance, and
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller asked if there should be a line item for the new
cemetery committee. Mr. Stanley said that labor is included in that department
already, and City staff isn’t authorized to do much more than routine
landscaping. City Manager Therrien added that the ordinance does not allow us
to touch or repair the headstones. Mr. Stanley said that the City was in the
process of accepting bids for cemetery maintenance.
Mr. Stanley mentioned that the Parks and Recreation Department was requesting
to move two Public Services staff members to Parks and Recreation to manage the
parks. In his opinion, it will take more than two workers to maintain
everything in that department. He asked when the line would be drawn. If he
loses two employees, is Public Services going to be reprimanded for not getting
all their work done. Alderman Alt asked if an assessment had been done of how
long it will take to manage the parks. Alderman Allen suggested to wait and
have the discussion when Heather Hemphill, the Parks and Recreation Director,
can discuss. The Parks and Recreation Master Plan that was adopted, recommends
a staff of 4-5 people to manage the parks, but Ms. Hemphill thought that two
would be a good start.
Mr. Stanley said that if it rains, all the staff does is mow grass. Alderman
Lombardi recommended that Parks and Recreation hires their own employee,
instead of taking one from the Public Services department. Tom Stanley said he
will accommodate whatever the Board decides. The Forestry Committee line got
moved to the Buildings and Ground budget.
Tom Stanley directed the Board to the Garage Department. He said there are no
requests for anything major, just a mobile compressor that costs about $4800.
The difference in salaries from last year to now is because he decided not to
hire another person.
Next, was the review of the Street Department. Mr. Stanley, with the guidance
of Tom Zilinek, is requesting more departmental supplies, as there is a
potential for hot asphalt instead of cold patching. The department is
requesting two more employees to help with proactive maintenance. A “patching”
crew can work on areas as large as 10 x 20, and there are plenty of areas that
could use those types of repairs. One capital item being requested is a new
dump truck, a single axle to replace the 1995 model.
Alderman Lombardi asked if there has been any thought about filling some of the
cracks. Tom Zilinek said that he would explore that subject.
Tom Stanley mentioned that there are Powell Bill funds that can be used for
road repairs. Alderman Allen asked whether the Powell Bill funds could be used
to purchase the dump truck. Staff will research and let the Board know.
Ellie Pittenger, the Electrical Superintendent, spoke to the Board next about
the budget for the Electrical department. There is still a need for a second
point of delivery for service. He is still waiting for grant updates for the
electrical car charging stations. And the electrical underground work is still
moving forward. Last year, staff ordered supplies early, so that work could
progress without any hold-ups. Alderman Carroll asked if the $1.6 million was
still enough to budget for the conversion to underground, and Mr. Pittenger
said that it was. Approximately 75% of the electrical service in Southport is
underground. Mr. Pittenger said that he plans to retire sometime in the middle
of the year in 2024. He would like to budget to hire someone in January 2024,
so that he can train them before he retires.
Mr. Pittenger also mentioned that the existing substation cannot be expanded
because of the footprint. There is not enough room to add the new transformers
while the existing transformers are there. But you cannot disconnect the
existing transformers until the new ones are installed and connected. The
second point of delivery will involve land acquisition. It would be much better
to build a substation close to existing infrastructure and just move the
transmission lines out from there. There was a brief discussion about possible
locations.
Tom Stanley reviewed the proposed budget for the Water and Sewer Department. He
said that the City will be increasing the water reserve by 50,000 gallons.
There is a high demand for water meters, but he would like to order more so
there is a surplus. Meters would likely need to be replaced every ten years.
The meters the City needs are on backorder. One of the pump stations needs a
new generator, and it needs to be raised above the ground. Natural gas lines
are going down Atlantic Avenue. That will allow the City to transfer some of
the lift stations to gas, and the generators can kick on during load management
times. Mayor Hatem thanked Tom Stanley and Public Services for everything they
do for the City of Southport. Mr. Pittenger addressed the Board again to inform
them the wholesale energy rates were increasing 3.9% on April 2024. Mayor Hatem
recessed for lunch at 12:20 p.m. The Board hosted a luncheon in gratitude for
Melanie Trexler. Ms. Trexler worked for the City for eight years and was
leaving the area and moving to the Chapel Hill area.
Mayor Hatem called the meeting back to order at 12:54 p.m. He said that this
was Ms. Trexler’s last meeting, and he read a proclamation for her.
   5.   Randy Jones, the Community Relations and Communication Director
reviewed their proposed budget. He said that this year had been one of
transitions. Allayna Dail has taken over as the administrator for the 4th of
July Festival. ChyAnn Ketchum just reached her ten month of employment with the
City. Mr. Jones said he couldn’t do it with out them. He added that the
department couldn’t function without the volunteers. Alderman Lombardi said
that the Beautification Committee wouldn’t be able to accomplish as much
without Randy.
Mr. Jones explained that recently, a part time position was created to help
with the responsibilities of filming all the meetings. Eventually, later this
upcoming fiscal year, he would like to move it to full time. All the revenue
from the Community Building goes back to the Capital Fund.
Mayor Hatem thanked Mr. Jones and his staff for all they do.
   6.   Kate Marshall, Animal Protective Services Director reviewed the
proposed APS budget with the Board. She would like to increase the part-time
staff to cover two weekends. She predicts that the “kitten season” will start
soon. Ms. Marshall got her alligator handing certificate last year.
   7.   Ms. Therrien said the Board needed to schedule at least two other
meetings and host the public hearing on the proposed budget. There is another
budget meeting on April 24th, and the Board scheduled a meeting for Monday, May
1, 2023 at the Community Building.
F)
Mayor Hatem thanked City Staff, Department heads, and the Board for such an
incredible meeting.
G) There were no comments from the Board.
H) Adjourn
Alderman Lombardi made a motion to adjourn the meeting, which was seconded by
Alderman Allen. All ayes. Motion carried. Mayor Hatem adjourned the meeting at
1:22 p.m.
 
                     _____________________________________
                     Joseph P. Hatem, M.D., M.P.H.
                     Mayor, City of Southport
 
__________________________________
Dorothy Dutton
Assistant City Manager/City Clerk
MAY 1, 2023
SPECIAL WORKSHOP MINUTES
BOARD OF ALDERMEN
SPECIAL BUDGET WORKSHOP
INDIAN TRAIL MEETING HALL
113 W. MOORE STREET
PRESENT:
Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor Pro-tem Karen Mosteller, Aldermen John Allen,
Robert Carroll, Lowe Davis, Tom Lombardi, and Rich Alt
STAFF PRESENT:
Bonnie Therrien, City Manager
Dorothy Dutton, Assistant City Manager/City Clerk
ChyAnn Ketchum, Communications/PIO
Brandon Stevens, Deputy Finance Officer
Paul Gross, Interim Finance Director
Patti Fortuna, Human Resources Director
Heather Hemphill, Parks and Recreation Director
Randy Jones, Community Relations Director
OTHERS PRESENT:
Tish Hatem
Pat Kirkman
A) Call to Order
Mayor Hatem called the special workshop to order at 9:04 a.m. He mentioned all
the events that took place the weekend before including Arbor Day, Naturefest
and a car show.
B) Invocation
Alderman Lowe Davis provided the invocation.
C) Pledge of Allegiance
Mayor Hatem led everyone in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D) 
Alderman Lombardi made a motion to approve the agenda. Alderman Carroll
seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried. Mayor Hatem said the Board was
planning to prioritize goals, consider the personnel that is needed, and think
of ways to be more environmentally conscious. He added that the Board strives
to preserve Southport’s character.
E) Agenda
   1.
   Human Resources Director, Patti Fortuna, said she wanted to go over some of
the information that was requested and let the Board know what she had
accomplished during her first six months with the City.
She explained that she compared the City’s benefits plan with other
municipalities including Oak Island, Sunset Beach, Shallotte, and Brunswick
County. Shallotte gives more vacation (96 hours). Oak Island pays 90% of health
insurance coverage for employees, and 40% for dependents. Shallotte offers
longevity pay, too. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller stated that she had been
considering whether we need longevity pay anymore, since we are including merit
raises. City Manager Therrien said that a government should never remove
benefits. Instead, they could consider a moratorium starting July 1st, so that
no new employees would receive it. Eventually, it would stop. Alderman Allen
and Alderman Alt both agreed that the City should do something to help provide
some assistance for dependent insurance coverage. Alderman Allen said there are
only a couple of people who would take advantage of the dependent coverage
assistance, so the City wouldn’t be contributing a whole lot. Alderman Carroll
said that the Board is so far removed from staff; that staff wants more money.
People who make $40,000 a year are worried about making their payments on time.
Alderman Davis said that she understands that, but a benefits survey would be
helpful. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller asked to know the overall impact on the cost
of the benefit; would the cost increase if more people have claims? City
Manager Therrien said that the more claims, and the higher amount of claims,
the rates would increase the next year. She also reiterated that City staff
unanimously said they preferred more money. Alderman Carroll said that out of
(74) employees, only three are not on individual coverage. There is no point of
including coverage if only three employees will use it.
Ms. Fortuna moved on to say that she had also made a salary comparison,
particularly with the public sector averages. The payroll study and
classification is about 4-6 months from being completed once the project
begins.
The Human Resources Director said that over the last six months, she has
updated employee files, started engagement surveys, exit interviews,
performance evaluations, job competencies, training on writing and delivering
performance reviews, performance coaching, employee recognition, and NeoGov
implementation is at 50%. Also, the career page is built out on
governmentjobs.com, and she has completed a public employment law course.
Alderman Lombardi stated that he prefers a more competitive salary and leaving
insurance assistance out. Alderman Alt reiterated that a competitive salary is
important, but kids need insurance coverage. He said that young folks are all
about money, but health insurance is still very important.
   2.
   Heather Hemphill thanked the Board and staff for their kindness, sympathy,
and grace they extended to her with the loss of her mother.
She said that a lot of her requests are more capital oriented. She reviewed her
operating expenses including vehicle leasing, fuel costs and departmental
supplies. She said that she would like to have two employees in the parks and
recreation department to focus on park maintenance and upkeep. The positions
would include tasks like pruning the azaleas, irrigation installation, mowing
the grass, etc. The Parks and Recreation Master Plan recommends staff devoted
to these tasks. Alderman Lombardi said that he supported this, as long as two
new employees can be hired for the Parks and Recreation department, and the
positions are not taken from the public services department. Alderman Alt asked
how many man hours were used currently to maintain the parks. Alderman Davis
said she thinks that they are overreaching when it comes to reorganizing
departments. Some of the parks do need a lot of work, but it is not because
staff is slacking off. Can the City afford to hire two new people? Alderman
Lombardi also asked the Board to consider the equipment that would be needed
for the Parks. City Manager Therrien said that it is a mixed bag. She
recommends moving one person and leaving coordination to Heather and Tom
Stanley. Ms. Hemphill added that she would like to move the position in-house,
based on the recommendation of the master plan. City Manager Therrien also
recommends hiring a parks and recreation assistant.
Next, Ms. Hemphill added that the cross-bracing at the City pier took another
hit during Hurricane Ian. There is already $25,000 allocated for the repairs/
replacement, but the estimated cost to repair it is $87,000. We are not sure if
we will get any funding from FEMA. Ms. Hemphill said that FEMA has allocated
$215,000 towards Kingsley Pier repairs. The Board approved the recommendation
of hiring McPherson Marine. The Kayak launch project is being funded by the
efforts of the Morningstar Marina, the City, and a CAMA grant. The shoreline
stabilization project is ongoing, and Ms. Therrien found out that the City can
use the funding on private or publicly owned property. The Yacht Basin dredging
project is at the early stages, and there is no estimates yet. The City is
trying to work with the marina to dredge in January or February. It is more
beneficial to work together.
Mayor Hatem announced there would be a short break. The meeting resumed at 10:
41 a.m.
   3.
   The City Manager asked the Board to review the list that was in their
packets. She reminded the Board that those were items that the Board needed to
make a decision about. Alderman Allen asked if they could have that information
in a more streamlined document. There was some discussion about adding the
items back into the budget and how much the tax rate would increase for each
item. Some items are already included in the Capital Improvement Plan. Ms.
Therrien explained that all personnel requests would affect the budget.
Alderman Alt asked about digitizing the records. The Board discussed the ABC
revenue, and ad valorem taxes that are collected. Alderman Carroll said there
were two non-negotiables; the two paramedic positions. Alderman Allen asked the
City Manager to prioritize the positions. Ms. Therrien stated the building
inspector, permitting technician, and fire inspector are easy because they are
funded by the departments already. Ms. Therrien asked about the 5% COLA that
she included, and the merit raise. She added that the pay study is equally
important. Mayor Hatem summarized that the City Manager will bring that list
back to them and help them make some decisions. They discussed dates for a
future workshop. The decided on Wednesday, May 10th at 1:00 p.m. in the
Community Building.
F)  Mayor’s Comments
Mayor Hatem thanked staff for their work on the budget.
G) Board Comments
There were no Board comments.
H) Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller made a motion to adjourn the meeting, which was
seconded by Alderman Lombardi. All ayes. Motion carried.
The meeting was adjourned at 11:08 a.m.
   
                     _____________________________________
                     Joseph P. Hatem, M.D., M.P.H.
                     Mayor, City of Southport
__________________________________
Dorothy Dutton
Assistant City Manager/City Clerk
MAY 5, 2023
AGENDA REVIEW MEETING MINUTES
BOARD OF ALDERMEN
INDIAN TRAIL MEETING HALL
MAY 5, 2023
PRESENT:
Mayor Hatem, Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller, Aldermen Allen, Alt, Carroll, Davis, and
Lombardi
STAFF PRESENT:
Bonnie Therrien, City Manager
Dorothy Dutton, Assistant City Manager/City Clerk
Tom Stanley, Public Services Director
Mo Meehan, City Planner
Randy Jones, Community Relations Director
ChyAnn Ketchum, Communications/PIO
Sydney Heil, Community Building Administrator   
OTHERS PRESENT:
Chris Curry, Alliance Code Enforcement   Tish Hatem
Call to Order
Mayor Hatem called the meeting to order at 9:03 a.m.
Invocation
Alderman Lowe Davis provided the invocation.
Pledge of Allegiance
Mayor Hatem led everyone in reciting the Pledge of Allegiance.
Approval of Agenda
Alderman Allen made a motion to approve the agenda, to include the removal of
the Right of Way conversation. The motion was seconded by Alderman Lombardi.
All ayes. Motion carried.
Agenda
1.
The City Manager stated that the City has contracted with an outside company
(Alliance Code Enforcement) to act as Code Enforcement for the City. She
introduced Chris Curry. Mr. Curry worked for the Guilford County Sheriff’s
Office for fourteen years. He also gave a quick overview of the company, and
his personal background. He said that he was in the City for one afternoon, and
already had four pages of violations. He said they try to have a personal touch
to their work. They knock on doors and speak with people instead of just
mailing notices. Several Board members encouraged staff to schedule a public
meeting to discuss Code Enforcement and rights-of-way. Mr. Curry said that ACE
forms relationships with people and strive for abatement over issuing finds.
2.
Assistant City Manager, Dorrie Dutton, reviewed the amendments to Chapters 2
and 13 of the Code of Ordinances that streamlines the process for Committees,
Boards, and Commission appointments. Mayor Pro- tem Mosteller asked that the
same language regarding liaisons be included in each section. Ms. Dutton said
she would go through each section to make sure all the language was included.
3.
The Board reviewed the agenda packet for the May 11, 2023 Board meeting. The
Board went through the consent items, the budget review, the bid acceptance,
audit firm selection and the off-duty management company. Mo Meehan, the City
Planner explained the subdivisions and plats that were scheduled for the
meeting. There was some discussion about the Oakton Subdivision, which includes
42 lots. Several Board members are not in favor of the subdivision because of
the additional access point, and potential tree removals. Next, Ms. Meehan
reviewed the Price’s Creek subdivision, and Osprey Landing, Phases 1 and 2.
Ms. Therrien explained that the City Attorney will be leading the discussion on
the Social Media Policy. Mayor Hatem said that the Board should speak as an
individual instead of representing the full Board. There was hesitation to
discuss the policy without the City Attorney being present. Also on the agenda
was the System Development Fee and Utility Rate Study, and a closed session to
discuss two similar items. Alderman Lombardi said he was glad that we were
moving ahead with Code Enforcement. The Noise Ordinance was being postponed for
now.
Alderman Carroll said that he feels frustrated because there seems to be
redundancy, the Board is missing things when they are not all at the big table.
F.) 
Mayor Hatem said the Board is having more meetings now because of the budget.
It is helpful and we will make them more efficient. He said that he was pleased
to have Alliance Code Enforcement with us because we can move forward
proactively.
G.)
Alderman Carroll suggested that the Board do a better job of explaining their
opinions at the Board meetings because the public doesn’t know what is
discussed at the agenda review meetings.
H.)
Alderman Allen made a motion to adjourn the meeting, which was seconded by
Alderman Davis. All ayes. Motion carried. The Mayor adjourned the meeting at
10:41 a.m.
                     ______________________________________
                     Joseph P. Hatem, M.D., M.P.H.
                     Mayor, City of Southport
________________________________________
Dorothy Dutton
Assistant City Manager/City Clerk
MAY 10, 2023
BUDGET WORKSHOP
Board of Aldermen
Community Building 233 E. Bay St.
May 10, 2023
1:00 P.M.
Present:
Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor Pro Tem Karen Mosteller, Aldermen Rich Alt,
             Robert Carroll, Tom Lombardi, and Lowe Davis.
Absent:
None
Staff Present:
      Bonnie Therrien, City Manager
      Tanya Shannon, Deputy Clerk
      Randy Jones, Community Relations/Tourism Director
      ChyAnn Ketchum, Communications and Public Information Officer
      Sydney Heil, Community Building Administrator
      Brandon Stevens, Deputy Finance Director
      Paul Gross, Interim Finance Director
Mayor Joseph P. Hatem called the meeting to order at 1:00 P.M. and welcomed
everyone to the meeting.
The Invocation was given by Reverend Davis.
Mayor Hatem led the Pledge of Allegiance.
A Motion to approve the Agenda was made by Alderman Allen and seconded by
Alderman Lombardi. Unanimous vote; Motion carried.
Agenda
        1.    Review of New Positions and Taxations
   City Manager Bonnie Therrien asked Deputy Finance Director Brandon Stevens
to discuss the itemized list    and go through each position, including the tax
rate depending on the position. The Board was provided    the itemized list in
advance to review.
   Alderman Alt asked if benefits were included in this breakdown. Mr. Stevens
said yes. Alderman Alt    asked why the IT and paver positions are similar in
percentage to the tax rate when the IT position is a more significant expense.
Alderman Allen noted that at the bottom of the document that part of the
   expense was covered due to already being budgeted for an IT contract. Mr.
Stevens said that was correct.
   Alderman Alt said that the City has gone out for bids on the Cemetery care
for two years, and only a few    have been received. He said the work is time-
consuming and must be done carefully to protect the    gravestones, and time is
money. He noted that it might be more efficient to contract someone to do the
linear parks that could be completed very quickly. City Manager Therrien said
that she had looked at both    options to have Building and Grounds continue to
maintain or subcontract out. She said that if contracting out for grounds work
was the option, they would have to be supervised often, and more time would be
spent trying to ensure that they are working and doing the best quality.
Alderman Lombardi questioned why the revenue-neutral number was published. He
said that everybody was calling and telling him thank you before, and now it
will jump back up. Ms. Therrien noted that by state law, it has to be
published. Alderman Lombardi said he doesn’t think people will accept the fact
that it is going way back up.
Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller questioned the budget sheet, where stated the revenue
2023 actuals and what is collected for that tax year. Ms. Therrien said the
estimated actuals are estimated to be what the end of this fiscal year would
be. Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller asked why the FY 23-24 was $195,000 less than what
the estimated actual going to be from the previous year when there is more
revenue. Ms. Therrien said all the estimates came in from the Department heads,
and it was gone through with them and estimated of what they think they could
do. Alderman Carroll reiterated that the ad valorem tax is $195,000 less than
the estimated actuals. He stated that is less than what is being requested. Mr.
Stevens explained that the number was reduced because it was kept in mind that
in the future, with neutral revenue tax rates, it would decrease what was
received as income. Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller stated that would be less. Alderman
Carroll said that the value went up, and the point of neutral is that it stays
the same. Mr. Stevens said that they would have to go back and review this
information.
There was a discussion on the proposed new positions for one permit technician,
one building inspector, one fire inspector, and two paramedics. There was
clarification that these positions would be revenue based. That Department
would need to be budgeted prior to the revenue that was generated and put back
into the fund balance. Ms. Therrien said that any money generated from the
Inspections Department must be put back into that Department by law. Alderman
Alt’s concern is that when hiring these new positions, taxes will be raised to
accommodate. Mayor Pro Tem said it could come from the fund balance. City
Manager Therrien did not recommend that. Alderman Alt said he is trying to
figure out how to hire new employees without raising taxes. He said if we can
prove that getting through the first year that it is revenue neutral would go
over better with the citizens than saying that the City is hiring many new
positions on top of the ones hired last year.
Mayor Hatem noted that the City should be getting every dime out of the ad
valorum tax. That it should not be less. Ms. Therrien said that the finance
director is reviewing that again right now. He said that he believes that if
the Citizens knew that the money was going to new positions, such as the two
paramedics and a Planning Director for the Historic Preservation Commission,
etc., they would understand that they are gaining beneficial services.
Alderman Lombardi questioned why the departments don’t include their requested
new positions when submitting their budget. Ms. Therrien said it was not the
Staff that did it this way. She said she has always worked on budgets this way.
She noted that the Board would have the final approval on what positions they
feel are beneficial and needed for the City.
Ms. Therrien said that if you look at the budget, there is approximately $1.2 M
that is sitting in the contingency that should not be just sitting in there.
She said that it was way too much money that could be earning interest. She
said to look at the increased revenue amount that was not projected correctly,
and the Departments did a great job keeping their budget under control. She
said a lot of positions were approved last year but were never hired before
July 1st, even though they were budgeted for before July 1st. Alderman Alt said
that sometimes there is credit for turnover and that Department gets to keep
the money that was not used, and other jurisdictions turn that money back to
the general fund. Ms. Therrien said that 90% of that unused money goes back to
the General Fund except for the electric and water because it has to. Alderman
Carroll asked what the current fund balance is. Ms. Therrien gave the
description of the funds. Ms. Therrien had the general fund totals but was
looking for the fund balances. Alderman Carroll asked because it appears that
around $1.1M is needed to proceed, so some of the funds could come from the
general fund balance. Ms. Therrien said she would recommend using the capital
funds but not for recurring expenses. The fund balance needs to cover
hurricanes and other potential storms, etc. This could wipe out the fund
balance. She said this could mean laying people off or raising taxes to make up
the difference. That’s why she recommended using it for one-time expenses and
took a lot out of the fund balance to pay for capital.
Alderman Carroll reiterated that there needs to be more discussion on the ad
valorem tax. Alderman Allen asks what is the $1.2 M in contingency. Ms.
Therrien said that is excess revenues. All the revenue has come in beyond or
above what was proposed as adopted last year. She also said the departments
kept their budget under control, the new positions that were approved on July
1st but were hired in October. The merits were budgeted for the entire year,
but they weren’t supposed to go into effect until this month. So, that’s
creating a part of the excess money. Alderman Allen asked if that money could
be applied to the new positions. Ms. Therrien did not recommend it because she
said it’s a one-time expense and should not be recurring. Alderman Allen asked
if the $1.2M in contingency is just a placeholder and where it comes from. Ms.
Therrien said that she had never seen it done this way in her 30-year
experience. Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller noted that she has seen in past budgets
that there had been money in contingency. Manager Therrien said that she knows
that the former finance director had this money in contingency, but she does
not think it should be just sitting in a contingency account. Alderman wanted
clarification on how this could be used as a reoccurring expense if it is only
used once. Manager Therrien said that if those revenues go down and suddenly
you don’t have those revenues coming in, and you use it, then people will have
to be laid off. Alderman Alt said that with the banking system being unstable
and not having guarantees, he would be against reoccurring expenses. Alderman
Carroll’s recommendation was to agree on what positions on the list would be
agreed on and use the general fund to pay for it.
Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller asked about the water/sewer budget calculation and the
three oversized ticket items that were listed as capital improvements, but they
actually factored into the water/sewer budget. She said it was like counting
them twice when paying for it. Manager Therrien said she was going to address
Capital Improvements later in the discussion. Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller noted
that with the trucks requested for the Public Services Department, there is a
2017 truck that stated could be left in the fleet. Manager Therrien said that
it will be kept in the fleet but will also be used for other things. Mayor Pro
Tem said that in the Public Services Director’s notes, he says to sell or keep
the old truck. She said if they are leasing a new truck, why not keep the old
truck? Alderman Lombardi stated that he believes the new truck would be used to
haul things such as asphalt for road repairs. He said the old truck was not
worth much, and he suggested keeping it.
Alderman Carroll and Alderman Allen wanted more clarification on the
contingency in the surplus. He asked where is this money going. Manager
Therrien said that it would go into the interest bearings. Alderman Carroll
asked why it did not go back into the fund balance. Manager Therrien said that
it goes back into investments. Alderman Carroll stated that instead of going
into the fund balance, it might be better to use this money and take the $1.2M
and put it back into the budget. Manager Therrien said that could be done.
Alderman Carroll suggested the best answer would be to keep a revenue neutral
tax rate, and it would accomplish everything. Alderman Davis asked if the $1.2M
goes into the budget, what would be the worst case scenario? Manager Therrien
said that we do not achieve revenues, and if the economy dies and the interest
rates go down, it was projected to reach $700,000 but would possibly not get
$700,000. She said somehow, we would have to make up the $700,000 or lay people
off. Alderman Allen said there is always that possibility that the rates could
go up or down. He doesn’t agree with the $1.2M sitting in contingency when it
could be used in the budget.
Alderman Alt asked how many people were hired last year. It was estimated
between 8-12 were employed. He said there are 11 new positions being requested
for this year, and with the cumulative inflations going up, citizens will be
very upset with tax increases. He said there are 2 critical positions that
could save life and they will be generating revenue to accommodate for the
salaries. He said the other two positions are not life-saving, but they
generate self-revenue. He believes that the other proposed positions are
disposable. Alderman Carroll stated that they should discuss all the positions
that are requested and determine collectively what is agreeable. But he said he
believes there is enough money in contingency to pay for all of it, and he
believes that the City will be fine with the current tax rate. Alderman Allen
asked if any money was coming out of the fund balance for this budget. Manager
Therrien said that only Capital Funds were being used. Alderman Allen asked how
much that was. Manger Therrien said roughly $1,450,000. Deputy Finance Director
Mr. Stevens said that the ad valorem taxes are based on last year’s 39.39 tax
rate. This year is from the preliminary scroll from the county, and as of
January and February 2023, it was moved to $4,165.000 because that did not
account for growth. Mayor Hatem asked if that was the same as the estimated
actual that was projected in 2023. Mr. Stevens said that was correct.
Alderman Lombardi asked if it was the 50% dependent coverage was still being
considered. Alderman Allen said that he believes the consensus of the Board is
to continue to consider it. Manager Therrien suggested continuing with the
reviews of the new positions and going down the list and considering each one.
Mayor Hatem started with a part-time IT position. It was the consensus of the
Board to continue with a part-time IT contracted position. The following
positions were the street pavers. Alderman Allen stated that the Powell Bill
funds would be used to cover all street and sidewalk maintenance. Manager
Therrien said that was correct. It was the consensus of the Board to hire the 2
street pavers. Mayor Hatem continued with the Community Building Manager PT/ FT
position. Mayor Pro Tem noted that this position used to be a full-time
position. She said the Staff is needed in this position with live stream
meetings, and also, the building is becoming more profitable with usage. It was
the consensus of the Board to hire a full-time Community Building Manager. Next
positions for discussion were for a Fire Inspector and two Paramedics. Mayor
Hatem said that this position would help with response time and increase the
level of care to the community. It was the consensus of the Board to hire these
positions. The other positions to consider are another Building Inspector, a
Permit Technician, Code Enforcement Officer 2, and a Historic Downtown Planner.
There was a discussion on the Code Enforcement Officer. Ms. Therrien explained
that, currently, there is a vacancy posted for a full-time Code Enforcement
Officer. However, the City has contracted a supplement officer to enforce until
that position is filled. She said that the Board could choose to continue to
use the subcontracted code enforcement officer and withhold the full-time staff
code enforcement officer. The Historic Downtown Planner was undecided. Alderman
Allen and Alderman Alt were concerned that it may be too soon to hire for this
position because the Commission is still in the early phase. Mayor Pro Tem
Mosteller, Alderman Carroll, and Mayor Hatem felt like this position was
needed. The Development Services Staff are tasked with many planning and zoning
responsibilities. They felt like a Historic/Downtown Planner is an important
position. It would help facilitate the success of the Historic Preservation
Commission and also other planning priorities. There was a discussion on the
Building Grounds positions, including the plant water and cemetery bids.
Alderman Lombardi questioned the plant water position, how much, and what
hours. Ms. Therrien said it would be $15 an hour for 1,000 hours of work. Mayor
Hatem asked for feedback on whether to keep staff maintenance or contract
service out for cemetery maintenance. He said that currently, the cemeteries
look good and have been maintained nicely. Alderman Lombardi asked if Public
Services Director Tom Stanley was asked about the ability and time that his
department would have to maintain. Manager Therrien said that if it was
contracted out, it would free the building and grounds department up to do many
other things. Alderman Lombardi asked if two or three cemeteries needed to be
maintained. Manager Therrien said two, Northwood and Smithfield. Alderman Alt
wondered if there was an approximate number of hours that it would take to
maintain the cemeteries. Manager Therrien said that it was easier to
approximate the time if the workers punched in and out for each job. Manager
Therrien corrected that John Smith was being maintained by the City as well.
There was discussion on whether the City should be helping with a cemetery that
is not owned by the City. Mayor Hatem said that the City has been helping with
some maintenance, but only occasionally. He said that after Hurricanes, the
City would help clean up and volunteers. He explained there is not much there
to maintain and said it is the neighborly thing to do. Alderman Allen did not
support having contract services to maintain a private cemetery. Manager
Therrien asked for a consensus on the Historic Downtown Planner position. It
was the consensus of the Board that this position would be needed. Also, she
asked, along with the two pavers, if there was a request to promote a lead man
for the paving crew and what was the consensus of the Board. The consensus was
to approve this position. Manager Therrien asked if the Board would like to
contract out for the Cemetery Maintenance. Mayor Hatem stated that the bid for
outsourcing the cemetery service is $70,000, and if that service also includes
John Smith Cemetery. The Board would like to know this information before a
decision is made. There was a discussion on 50% health coverage for dependents
of Staff. A survey was conducted, and there was thought that the survey may
need to be more accurate because the employees were not informed of the cost
that they would have to pay. The consensus was that the Board would have the
50% dependent coverage if the employee wanted to choose that option.
The Board took a short recess at 2:47 p.m. and returned at 3:00 p.m.
2.    Budget Deliberations
Manager Therrien asked if the 5% cost of living was appropriate and, if so,
would this also include part-time staff. Alderman Allen asked if the 5% was
budgeted for. Manager Therrien said that it was for full-time employees but not
for part-time employees. Alderman Alt asked how much that would be for the
part-time employees. Mr. Stevens was working on the numbers, and Manager
Therrien explained that in the Master Plan, $100,000 was removed, two vehicles
were removed and turned into leases, the dump truck will be paid from the
Powell bill, $250,000 added for the stormwater issues, the City Pier cross
bracing at $87,000 and that is coming out of the fund balance. She said that
one suggestion that she has to get the tax rate down is under Parks and
Recreation. Manager Therrien said Director Hemphill has $20,000 under capital
equipment for the gazebo roofs, $15,000 for an equipment storage container, and
$53,000 for equipment if people are moved over to her department. Ms. Therrien
said that there will need to be some decisions made on these items as well as
the new decking for the Community Building. She suggested moving it out of the
Capital Budget and in to the General Fund to help with the tax rate. There was
a lengthy discussion on the options for the decking and what would be the most
cost-efficient. Manager Therrien said that this would need to be discussed
further and suggested that money be put into the Capital Funds for decking and
brought back as an in-depth discussion. Mr. Stevens noted that the former
finance director Melanie Trexler has already budgeted for the 5% cola for part-
time employees. Also, there was a question from the City Manager if there were
going to be two people moved over to the Parks and Recreation Department. The
Board consensus was not to transfer any position over to the Parks and
Recreation Department.
Mayor Hatem asked if there were any further comments or questions regarding the
budget at this time. Alderman Allen stated that there is a significant concern
with the parking issues in the City, especially with the increase in visitors.
He would suggest putting $50,000 in funds to do an RFP for a parking management
plan for Downtown Southport. He said there needs to be a plan so that the
residents do not become overwhelmed in their own town. Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller
suggested that it be put under the Capital Improvements fund. Mayor Hatem
agreed and said that Southport is the downtown of Brunswick County; it is
beautiful and iconic, and they would like the funds to go to a Parking Plan
Study that would be able to give direction on the parking issues in the City.
The consensus of the Board was to look into a parking management plan further.
3.   Set the Next Meeting Date
   The Board scheduled a Budget Meeting for May 16th at 1:00 P.M. at the
Community Building.
F.    Closed Session
   A Motion was made by Alderman Carroll to enter into Closed Session and was
seconded by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller. Unanimous vote; Motion carried.
   Closed Session-NCGS 143-318.11 (a)(5). To establish or to instruct the
public body's staff or negotiating agents concerning the position to be taken
by or on behalf of the public body in negotiating (i) the price    and other
material terms of a contract or proposed contract for the acquisition of real
property by purchase, option, exchange, or lease; or (ii) the amount of
compensation and other material terms of an    employment contract or proposed
employment contract.
A Motion was made to adjourn by Alderman Carroll and seconded by Mayor Pro Tem
Mosteller.
   Unanimous vote; Motion carried.
Adjournment: 4:03 p.m.
 
_______________________________________            _______________________________
   
Joseph P. Hatem, M.D., M.P.H.                           Deputy Clerk, Tanya
Shannon
Mayor, City of Southport
MAY 11, 2023
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
Board of Aldermen
Regular Meeting Minutes
Community Building 223 E. Bay Street
May 11, 2023
6:00 P.M.
Present:
      Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor Pro Tem Karen Mosteller, Alderman
      Thomas Lombardi, Rich Alt, Lowe Davis, Robert Carroll, and John Allen.
Staff Present:
      Bonnie Therrien, City Manager
      Tanya Shannon, Deputy Clerk
      Todd Coring, Police Chief
      Charles Drew, Fire Chief
Heather Hemphill, Parks & Rec. Director
Tom Stanley, Public Services Director
Kate Marshall, Animal Protective Services
Randy Jones, Community Relations Director
ChyAnn Ketchum, Community Relations/PIO
Sydney Heil, Community Building Administrator
Paul Gross, Interim Finance Director
Mo Meehan, City Planner
Travis Henley, Development Services Director
Tom Zilinek, City Engineer
Mayor Joseph P. Hatem called the meeting to order at 6:00 P.M. and welcomed
everyone.
Reverend Gene Thomlinson gave the Invocation.
The Pledge of Allegiance was led by Mayor Hatem.
D)   Public Comment :
   1.   
   Marjorie Jones, 136 Stuart Ave., said that she is not against the Oakton
Subdivision, but she would like them to be good neighbors. She requested that
the unnecessary access be eliminated    from Stuart Ave. She is concerned that
the removal of trees and the natural habitat would create    flooding. She said
that she has a petition with 100 signatures against the access point.
   2.
   Karen Rife; 5980 Dutchman Creek Rd. thanked the Board for all their hard
work and appreciated    the information on the proposed Land Use Legislation
Bill and placing a call to action and    being proactive with protesting
against the Bills.
   3.
   Adam Steadman; 5968 Dutchman Creek sent an email that was read by the Deputy
Clerk. He said    that he understands that the Board is working very hard on
the Budget to ensure revenue    neutrality. He said the tax payers deserve a
break. He asked that any revenue expenditure moving    forward should focus on
improving the road infrastructure.
   4.
   Gavin Lindenmuth, 603 Long Leaf Dr. had concerns about the Oakton retention
pond and asked    of this    was part of the hammocks or separate. He said
after heavy rains and storms Fodale Ave.    goes under water. He asked if that
water was going to pitched back to the retention pond or    allowed to flood
Fodale where there is poor drainage. He said these questions need to be
   addressed because will be forced to take legal action if the stormwater plan
is not adequately constructed.
   5.
   Larry Ashely, 637 Wild Rose Way had concerns about the proposed Social Media
Policy. He said    he believes in a transparent government but does not believe
that should mean that the    government should be reaching into his computer.
He said that he in on the Beautification    Committee and will take his
pictures and post them on Facebook as part of the Beautification    Committee,
and he was told that now he would have to put a disclaimer saying that he is
not    speaking on behalf of Beautification. He feels that adding this
disclaimer is over- reaching. That as    a Committee Member the information on
his personal social media post should not be shadowed.
The Ethics Statement was read by Mayor Hatem.
“If any members know of any conflict of interest or the appearance of a
conflict of interest concerning matters on the agenda, please so state at this
time.”
Mayor Hatem recused himself from item 11 on the agenda: System Development Fee/
Utilities Rate Study Engineer Selection. He stated that he has a family member
that works for the firm Withers Ravenel, who currently has 400 employees at the
firm. He stated this family member is/was not involved in any business related
to the City of Southport.
E)   Approval of the Agenda
   A Motion was made by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller to remove item (N) Closed
Session, due to this session being completed on May 10th at the Special Budget
Workshop Meeting and was second by Alderman Lombardi.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
   A Motion was made by Alderman Alt to move agenda (9) Social Media Policy to
item (1) and was seconded by Robert Carroll. Unanimous vote; Motion Carried. 
   Alderman Carroll made a motion to approve the Agenda as amended and was
seconded by    Alderman Davis. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
F)    Approval of the Consent Agenda:
   1.   Minutes of the Agenda Review Workshop April 11, 2023
   2.   Minutes of the Regular Board of Alderman Meeting April 13, 2023
   3.   Minutes of the Board of Aldermen Budget Workshop April 21, 2023
   4.    Resolution Requesting Brunswick County Approval of ETJ Planning Board
Member
   A Motion was made by Alderman Carroll to approve the Consent Agenda and
seconded by    Alderman Davis.
Unanimous vote; Motion Carried.
G)   Special Recognition:
   Mayor Hatem presented the following Proclamations.
   1.   Proclamation Recognizing National Nurses Week
   2.   Proclamation Recognizing National Police Week   
   3.   Proclamation for Military Appreciation Month
   4.   Proclamation for National Hurricane Preparedness Week
H)   Agenda
   1.   Social Media Policy
   The City Attorney Mr. Brady Herman stated that Staff approached him along
with the City Manager to help them put together the social media policy. He
said this is a policy decision by the Board and they are free to adjust what is
presented, and to delete anything they want or choose not to adopt. He said the
intent is not to infringe on the First Amendment right to free speech. He said
it does set forth some requirements not only for the Board but also the other
appointed boards and committees of the City and as well as to establish a way
for the different boards to go about and create a social media account through
the City. He explained a couple of the highlights on the important items. He
said a lot of what's in the proposed policy regardless of social media are
standards that you all must adhere to anyway for example privileged
confidential information record retention and some other requirements that
otherwise in the City Board of Ethics policy. He said one of the key things
here is this policy can fit in one of 2 scenarios where it doesn't apply is if
you or another board have a personal social media account and you don't discuss
any sort of city business this policy does not apply in that scenario. The
other scenario is if you have a personal social media account and use it some
for personal and discuss city business then this would go and apply. He said if
you want to have a social media account and add your platform as a public
official use this board as an example then you can get that registered through
the City. Attorney Brady said what that does is it's goes to help with record
retention. If you discuss City business, no matter what sort of platform it
comes from that is a public record. He said one of the things that is key to
this policy is putting the disclaimer on your social media account when you're
speaking about city business that it's coming from your personal opinion it's
not coming from the board as a whole unless the board approved it.
   Alderman Davis made a Motion to deny the proposed Social Media Policy.
Alderman Alt seconded    the Motion. Mayor Hatem asked if there was any
discussion from the Board before a vote was    taken.
   Alderman Davis said that there is the law and the spirit of the law. She
thinks this proposed social    media policy is unnecessary and infringes on
free speech. She believes that it is overreaching and    redundant.
   Alderman Alt said he does understand why the federal government can put
minimal restrictions    on using social media. He said in the past year they
have opined several things like record    retention and detention of comments.
His objection was that the city’s policy had several illegal    sentences such
as the city would allow one to have a social account, the city was forbidding
the    use of social media for re-elections or backing other candidates.
Additionally elected officials had    opined in public actions they thought
were improper which are clearly protected speech.
   ChyAnn Ketchup/ PIO said this policy is not telling you what you can and
cannot post but how to    post it safely. Attorney Herman said this policy can
be redrafted and the language revised. He said    for example in the authorized
right that could just say elected appointed officials have the right    to
operate a personal social media account.
   Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller noted that an updated social media policy is needed.
She recommended    having ChyAnn and Attorney Herman revisit the language,
address the concerns, and bring it back    to the Board in a Workshop to work
out the details. Alderman Alt said that he would like to    continue the
discussion so that Attorney Herman can address these concerns and continue with
   the specifics on how the language should be revised and regarding the
accounts and how they are    retained. Attorney Brady said that it he would
have to review the Administration process of    retention, but the City
Business accounts would have to be retained. Alderman Alt said that the
   language needs to be more defined.
   It was the consensus of the Board to review the policy in a workshop to
address concerns.    Alderman Davis amended the original motion to not approve
the Social Media policy but to table    the Social Media Policy for further
work and discussion at a workshop, seconded by Mayor Pro    Tem Mosteller.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
   2.    Budget Summary Presentation by City Manager Bonnie Therrien
   City Manager Therrien gave a presentation on her proposed 2023-2034 Budget.
She said that with the Department Staff they have been putting a budget
together so the Mayor and the Board can devise a strategic plan to reduce that
tax rate so that it does not incur a huge expense with the increased values.
She said she wanted to make sure we continued with the increase of capital
items as well as the fund balance and using that to pay for those onetime
expenses of capital. She said she wants to make sure that our fixed costs are
adequate and not just putting enough money so that you would have to go back to
the fund balance or contingency. She said to keep in mind all future mandates
from the federal and state government, and we have one that we have to complete
fairly quickly which is federal mandate to inspect all of our lead pipes and we
have to come up with a complete report on which ones have led in them which
don't I'm sure we're going to have to replace those that do and that's going to
be very costly. Also, is proposed 11 new positions that were provided in the
agenda packet that are listed in priority order. She provided highlights of the
proposed Budget on PowerPoint.
   3.    Recommendation of contractor for 22-25 Phase 2: for dangerous trees
and hanging limbs     removal and contract.
   4.    Recommendation of Contractor for 2023-2025 Phase II; Vegetative Debris
Removal/Disposal    and C & D Debris Removal
   Public Services Director Tom Stanley said there were three contractor
recommendations for vegetative debris removal related to storms and hurricanes.
He explained that bids went out with the help of Johnson Environmental Services
Rep. Barry Johnson. The contract for 2020- 2025 hurricane season would be for
dangerous trees and hanging limbs removal. There were five bidders, and the
lowest bid was State Tree Services for the primary contractor and secondary
contractor if State Tree services could not come would be DRC Emergency
Services.
Alderman Davis said there was a lot of complaints a couple years ago after the
last hurricane about debris pickup are either of these bidders the same ones
that the City used before. Mr. Stanley that it was State Tree Services, and he
said the complaints that are received are generally from people who bring out
debris late or have put the debris in non-pick up areas where the equipment
cannot get to the debris. He said the contractors make it it's publicized on
when the pick-up is and how and where to place it.
A Motion was made by Alderman Lombardi to approve State Trees Service as the
Contractor for the 2023-2025 Phase II: Dangerous Trees and Hanging Limbs,
seconded by Alderman Alt.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
   A Motion was made Mayor Pro Tem to approve State Tree Service as the
Contractor for 2023-2025 Phase II; Vegetative Debris Removal/Disposal and C & D
Debris Removal second by Alderman Carroll.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
   5.   Selection of Audit Firm:
   City Manager Therrien said the contract with our current auditor terms were
requested for    qualifications and were received. Three different firms that
wanted to work with us on the audit    they're    all very good and they did an
interview with the finance director, the deputy finance    director and
herself. She would highly recommend to the board Sharpe Patel CPA this would be
a    new firm that will come in and do the audit for the City. In fact, they
need to start fairly quickly    but she thinks the most important thing of this
firm is they're willing to come in and do a training    session with the board
to help understand the audit process.
   Alderman Allen made a Motion to hire the auditing firm Sharpe Patel to
perform the City audits    for three years and seconded by Alderman Lombardi.
Unanimous vote; Motion Carried.
   6.    Off Duty Management-Police, Fire, EMS Departments:
   City Manager Therrien said when she was talking with the Fire Chief and the
Police Chief it came    to her attention that with private duty currently the
way that we have been working is the    vendor would pay the employee directly
the day of the service so there were no taxes taken out    and that it has to
be done in a different manner. She said they did some    research through the
   finance department on how are we going to handle it and they found a company
that provides    this type of management. She said it's a great idea to start
vesting off duty management not    only do they pay but they also pay up for
extra duties. What they will do is they will get    the call    from the
private vendor they will arrange for whoever can do that for police or fire
they will make    sure there's a contract in place to get that done and then
they will do the payment to the    employee with benefits and everything and
take care of the whole thing and it's what an    asset to have them so I would
like to recommend not just the hiring of off duty management to
   handle all of this but also agree to the rates that we're recommending,
which would be $40.00 an    hour for police and fire $45.00 on the holiday per
hour and then $21.50 per vehicle if they are    needed. Alderman Alt had some
concerns about the two different cost factors one for 501C threes    and one
for everybody else. He said he didn’t want to get into the merits of all the
other great    causes that we have given money to. He said the reason we are
here is because the    churches in this town have all asked for this to happen.
He thinks it will dovetail into other things    but that was the reason why
we're here because of multiple discussions with the Police     Department on
this for a long time so he thinks there should be a reduced price for the 501C
    threes that are asking to have this done and match what was it originally
proffered.   Alderman Davis disagreed about that and said she would be the last
one to say something bad    about the churches, but the work the officers are
going to be doing the is the same work, so she    does not think it's fair to
them to require them to take less money for working for a church or    some
other nonprofit. Alderman Alt said he is not saying the money that we give away
is bad. He    said that we have occupied tens of millions of dollars’ worth of
buildings for 501C threes for a    dollar a year. He said there are many worthy
causes, and the church has asked to have this ability.    He said that it was
drawn up one way and now it has been decided to change.
   A Motion was made by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller to approve the Off-Duty
Management Services    for Fire, EMS, and the Police Departments second by
Alderman Carroll. Aye: Alderman Mosteller,    Carroll, Lombardi, Davis, and
Allen. Nay: Alderman Alt.
Motion Carried 5-1.
   7.   Oakton Preliminary Plat
    City Attorney Brady Herman stated as a benefit to the public and The Board
he would go over the standards for preliminary plat decisions. This decision
from this Board is administrative decision which means this board needs to
decide based upon the objective standards and criteria in the UDO whether the
preliminary plat meets the standards. He said if the preliminary plat meets the
standards of the ordinance, it should be approved. He said if it doesn't meet
the standards than it can be denied. But he said if that's the case there would
need to be a statement for which sections of the ordinance did that plat not
meet those standards. City Planner Meehan gave an overview of the project. She
said Greg Wayne for Stanley Martin homes is seeking approval for a major
subdivision preliminary plat known as Oakton. The approval would authorize
construction of the required improvements to the site, so this is an
approximately 20 acre site between Stuart and Fodale Avenues and adjacent to
the Hammocks subdivision. It is zoned R-10 which requires a minimum 10,000
square foot lot with a 75 foot width setbacks and height will be confirmed with
the permit stage. There will be almost 3 acres of open space with walking
trails around the stormwater pond and that exceeds the 2% open space for a
standard subdivision. It is a 42 lot single family subdivision and per Section
4 of the UDO requires interconnectivity to the streets and this one does
connect with Sand Dollar Lane with the Hammocks. There are 2 entrances on
Fodale Avenue and a one way entrance off of Stuart avenue and they have a 60
foot right away that would be dedicated to the City. The planning board has
composed a committee and the committee meetings that were concerns from the
neighbors of the entrance from Stuart as a two way and so it was requested that
the entrance become a trail or a bike or walking paths only or a consideration
of a one way only. After considerations the applicant was willing to do a one
way off of Stuart avenue with the signage added so that people would know that
it is a one way street. There were some questions about the landscape plan and
the tree mitigation in this application. It is using what is called permit
choice it's an option in the UDO and it's also in 160 D of the planning
enabling statutes that allows an applicant when they apply to rules change,
they are able to choose which rules they want to use for their application. The
application was originally brought in in July of 21, they are only allowed
they're to mitigate the regulated trees or specimen in the setbacks only or
specimen trees anywhere on site. Then in September 2022 there was a change to
the tree ordinance that would allow an infrastructure drainage and utility
provision which would allow that the subdivision to remove the trees without
mitigation except for Live Oak trees. This will be taken care of after homes
are built because they can't plant the trees where they are needed. There was a
lot of questions over the drainage and storm water retention. They do have a
stormwater pond system and all of the water will be designed and engineered to
drain into that pond. They are designing it to meet the 100th year 24 hour
event and the final design will be reviewed and approved by the city engineers
and the public services department prior to any work starting on site. The
planning board at their March 16th meeting made a unanimous recommendation to
the board of Alderman for approval of this major subdivision preliminary plat.
It meets the requirements of the UDO and is eligible to be approved. The
applicant was there to answer any questions. Mr. Worth Mills with Long Leaf Law
partners on behalf of Stanley Martin Homes, the subdivision applicant, came to
the podium. He said that he appreciates the explanation from the town Attorney
and the Planning Department. He said State law requires that subdivision plat
decisions are based on the clear explicit standards that are set forward in
Southport’s UDO. He said the City’s Planning Department has done a great job
with the process. He said that they exceed the minimum standards of the UDO.
Mr. Mills said that they appreciate the opportunity, and Stanley Martin Homes
looks forward to being a part of this community.
   Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller commented that at the entrance on Stuart Ave.
there's a lot of trees in different areas, for example where the kiosk is
located, she thinks some trees could remain. She stated in that spot there are
over a dozen trees around the property edges of that kiosk. It appears that
some of these trees could be preserved. Attorney Mills, representative for the
applicant, said he would have to refer to staff who know this much better than
he does to whether the tree and landscaping plan is compliant with the UDO.
Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller said at the entrance all the trees all along that
property line could be retained by just moving the water line. She said It
looks like the developers are taking those trees out because of the placement
of the water line. She said everywhere else on this subdivision the water lines
are right against where the sidewalk is. She said that water line could be
moved over and then those trees could be retained. Mr. Mills said he would have
to defer to the Staff who are much more experienced on this matter than he is,
and they have deemed that this plan is consistent and compliant with the City’s
UDO. Alderman Carroll asked if there is a legal requirement for the entrance on
Stuart Ave? Attorney Mills said he would defer to the Staff. Ms. Meehan said
there is not a legal requirement to have the entrance off Stuart. Alderman
Carroll asked if the entrance on Stuart Ave. is going to advance. Mr. Mills
said yes, and that he referred to Fire Chief Drew and when he spoke to the
benefits of having that access on Stuart Ave. at the May 5th workshop. Alderman
Carroll said that Stuart Ave. is a heavily trafficked street. He thinks this
access is unneeded and his recommendation is that this Board do the right thing
for Southport and deny it. Alderman Carroll asked that the developer eliminate
the access off Stuart Ave. and encourage them to make that a pedestrian
corridor keeping with the idea of connectivity which also allows the City to
save a significant number of trees and to also minimize the overall impact on
the trees. Alderman Davis asked if Chief Drew could speak to whether he
actually thinks that this is a necessary access. Chief Drew said it'd be nice
to have a 4th exit and entrance there on Stuart for emergency purposes but is
it necessary I am I'm thinking in terms of point of origin for emergency
vehicles is going to be the fire station and so the trucks would be going past
those accesses to Fodale accesses into the subdivision and going all the way up
another block and turning and then coming back in, so this is this does not
seem to me to be an absolutely essential emergency exit. Alderman Carroll said
it can be assumed that if they were responding to the Oakton Subdivision. Chief
Drew said there are going to be times that we're not going to be at the fire
station and have emergency calls. He said if this entrance is here off the
Stuart avenue and somebody in this house right here calls it is going to be
quicker for us to get to this house if we're in this vicinity because of this
entrance rather than have to respond all the way to Fodale Ave. and come all
the way through the subdivision. He said he thinks it's going to help with
interconnectivity and that’s what he said at the March 5th board workshop. He
said I think seconds matter. He said I can't really speak to what's going to
happen in the future, but I can say we're probably more than likely going to
respond from the fire station from Fodale avenue. Alderman Davis asked Chief if
he would be satisfied if this were just an emergency access with an emergency
gate activated by your codes and not available to the general public. Chief
Drew said he would not have a problem with that. Alderman Carroll asked would
you be satisfied if that entrance didn't exist? Alderman Allen reiterated that
considering that there's still an entrance into the neighboring subdivision
which will be interconnected off of Stuart. He said it's not like you're losing
any access from Stewart you're still going to have three other access points.
Chief Drew said he doesn’t really know what the purpose was to put the entrance
there, but you know when we went through the technical review committee and all
of that it was there, and it if it flows it makes sense. Alderman Davis asked
if the access off of Stuart is essential for public safety given that we have
three other access. Chief Drew stated, “ I'm going to say with my original
statement: seconds matter” and it does assist and help people to get or help
the emergency crews to get to that side of the subdivision quicker. Alderman
Alt asked if there is the authority to connect this development into the
Hammocks that are private roads. Would there be any liability or any issues
when connecting it and putting more cars on it. Attorney Herman said after
discussing this with Staff they said that could be done.
   Alderman Davis asked the City Engineer Tom Zilinek about the storm water
drainage. She asked him if he was satisfied from an engineering standpoint that
this subdivision has been planned efficiently and the drainage has been taken
care of adequately so that there will be no cause for flooding for the Hammocks
further down? City Engineer Zilinek said what has been reviewed and submitted
for the fully engineered plan the applicant has proposed. There is a retention
basin that will handle the storms as required under the UDO and the DEQ
regulations; He said he could not guarantee that any retention basin will work
in any storm because they're designed for 100 year storms you can get a 500
year storm you can get 1000 year storm you could get repeated 10 year storms
that add up and it can't handle it. He said he could not guarantee any drainage
system would work all the time and never flood. Alderman Carroll asked Mr.
Zilinek if he has experience as it relates to the Hammocks and their engineered
stormwater plan. The City Engineer said that he has been on board the Hammocks
plan for 3 months now. Alderman Carroll asked if he reviewed the plan. Mr.
Zilinek said he did not review that plan. He said he did know that subdivision
went in it was pretty devastating to everything around it and they had to find
things work as well to work. Alderman Alt where the overflow is for the
retention pond going, is it going to Stuart Ave? The City Engineer said I
believe the overflow would go to Stuart in that case because it the lowest
point. Alderman Davis asked if the developer would be responsible for any
drainage problems. Director Henley said to his understanding would be that if
it's if it's directly you're related to impacts related to the project as
determined through the engineering review which would happen after the plat
received approval tonight yes it would be all the responsibility of the
applicant to make those improvements. Alderman Carroll asked the developers
representative in light of what has been discussed here tonight and the desire
of what I believe to be a majority of the board as well as the desire of the
community to eliminate the one way turn in from Stuart Ave. would the developer
consider doing that? Attorney Mills said respectfully that he feels the job has
been accomplished through the technical review committee and the work that the
City Staff has put in to review this plan and to make sure that it meets all of
your criteria. He said if there is a problem with meeting the requirements to
please let them know. He said are committed to working with your city staff to
remedy that. But otherwise, he does not have anything else to offer. Alderman
Carroll made a Motion to deny the Preliminary Site Plan knows as Oakton and
seconded by Alderman Davis. Alderman Allen said he would like to hear from the
City Attorney about the advisability of that. City Attorney Herman stated if
the project is denied everything that staff has said in terms of in their
opinion working through the project as well as the planning board and the
review technical review committee he would defer to their judgment when they
say that this plat meets the ordinance and it's an administrative decision.
Alderman Allen asked if the opens up possible legal action. Attorney Herman
said that it is a possibility. Alderman Davis asked if she could move to table
this to have their staff work further over to try to achieve the resolution of
these concerns? Attorney Herman said you can, but he didn’t know if that's
something that the applicant would want to do. Mr. Worth Mills said that as
representative for Stanley Martin Homes he does not have a problem with
rediscussing.
   Alderman Davis Motioned to amend her Motion to table the Oakton Preliminary
Plat for further discussion and seconded by Alderman Carroll.
Unanimous vote, Motion Carried.
   9.   Prices Creek Townhomes Preliminary Plat Phase II
   City Planner Meehan explained that Cameron Smith is the applicant/owner and
is requesting approval of Phase 2 of the Prices Creek major subdivision
preliminary plat. It is a planned unit zoned planned unit development and it
was approved in 2004 for 3 phases the first phase is where the cottages or the
single family home portion of the development and then there were 2 other
multifamily phases, and this is the second phase with the multifamily located
some off of Rob Gandy Boulevard and also E. Leonard St. It has connectivity
with green Meadow Way onto East Leonard. It is 48 units or townhomes. It is a
little over 17 acres with almost 4 acres of open space which exceeds the 20%
required and they have 40 foot right away that would have 24 inch or 4,024’
dedicated public streets. There will be space for sidewalks, and this was
specifically permitted by the fire Marshall and the Fire Chief which is allowed
by the UDO. They have met their landscape and mitigations and there are no
buffer requirements. They are putting a lot of their mitigation along the top
near rob Gandy to because it is the property across the street is light
industrial. This is a low density stormwater project so they will not have a
stormwater retention pond it is designed to be less than 24% impervious
surfaces and is permitted through the North Carolina Department of
Environmental quality. The city engineers will work with DEQ for the final
plans prior to installation for compliance with the city standards on the
system. They will be using a system of vegetated swales and curb outlets that
will disperse the flow so it's going to help protect the stream hydrology
remove pollutants and then prevent erosion through infiltration. The planning
board at the regular scheduled meeting on April 20th recommended unanimous
approval for recommendation to the board of Alderman for the major subdivision
plat. It meets the requirements of the UDO and is eligible for to be approved
by as a major subdivision for a preliminary plat. Mr. Cameron Smith was in
attendance to answer any questions. Alderman Alt asked if he knew how far away
the water table is from the bottom of the swale. Mr. Cameron Smith said overall
it is very sandy and has a good elevation and not as far as the stormwater
swales. He did know where the groundwater would be. He said Phase I has
stormwater ponds.
   A Motion was made Alderman Carroll to approve Prices Creek Townhomes Major
Subdivision    Preliminary Plat Phase II and was seconded by Mayor Pro Tem
Mosteller.
Unanimous vote;    Motion Carried.
   8.   Osprey Landing Phase 1 and 2 Final Plat:
   Director Henley presented the Major Subdivision Final Plat for phases 1 and
2 of Osprey Landing located to the north of Robert Ruark and West of Howe
Street. Osprey Landing was approved as a Planned Unit Development with a
Development Agreement in May of 2020. The preliminary plat for the entire 196
unit subdivision was approved by the Aldermen in June of 2021. The roadways
within the entirety of the project are private. The water and sewer is to be
handled by Brunswick County the electric system is the only system that would
be help handled by the city of Southport and the electric infrastructure
they've installed is in accordance with all applicable with the City of
Southport standards. Phase one includes the main entrance off of Robert Ruark
and includes the amenity site located to the left. The amenity site received
major site plan approval from the planning board in June 2022. There are 45
single family lots located along 3 private roadways that includes the amenity
site. Based on the preliminary plat they did show a few areas for tree
retention and a few areas for tree planting based on the multiple site visits.
Mr. Henley said he has done his own review and walking the site with the
applicant they've actually both been able to retain more trees than they had
proposed and have planted more than they said they were going to plant. There
are a number of conditions of approval that staff are recommending be included.
Director Henley said these are all pretty standard conditions that would look
familiar based on the other final plats that have been brought before this
board. These are all to be done prior to plat recordation including DEQ
approval of the water and sewer systems and Brunswick County utilities signing
the plat prior to the City signing the plat. He said that is standard for any
project that involves Brunswick County utilities. He said the purpose of
putting these conditions on with approval should come in any day now. He said
with the plat recordation the applicant will provide a performance guarantee
with associated financial instrument and engineer cost estimate with 25%
contingency for the construction of sidewalks in accordance with the
preliminary plat. Mr. Henley said you can put the sidewalks under a performance
guarantee in order not to have them installed and then torn up through the
construction process and then 3 prior to plat recordation the applicant will
provide certification from NC dot that all required improvements dictated by
the approved traffic impact study for the project have been installed or
otherwise satisfied. Another one of their requirements was a financial
commitment to the City for a long term signal upgrades at the Robert Ruark 87
to 11 intersection and with all the construction happening right there they
were not going to make the applicant make any signal changes that are just
going to get removed in a few months. He said has already happened and they are
just waiting on certification of the turn lane from Robert Ruark into the
neighborhood which should per the applicant come soon. With those conditions
staff respectfully recommends approval. Alderman Alt clarified that City will
not be responsible for any of the streets. He stated there is no intention of
the City ever taking them over. He said the engineer will certify that they are
designed and constructed to the standards that they committed to. Director
Henley all the roads are platted as private and there is permanent recordation
of that.
   Alderman Allen made a Motion to approve the final plat for phases one and
two based on conformance with the previously approved preliminary plat and with
the applicable standards of the City of Southport UDO and the Osprey Landing
Planned Unit Land associated development agreement with the stated conditions,
second by Alderman Lombardi. Unanimous vote; Motion carried.
   9.    Ordinance Amendments for Boards/ Committees/ Commissions: Chapter 2
and 13
   Communications Director Randy Jones explained that, and he Assistant City
Manager/ City Clerk Dorothy Dutton have reviewed the Code of Ordinance that
pertains to the board commissions and committees. He said a policy and
procedure revision was needed to help these committees with their term limits
procedures and how to do the applicants interview process. He said it is a way
that the City can uniform the process to make it easier for the Boards and the
Citizens. Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller noted a couple of minor grammatical revisions
and Director Jones stated that those could be easily corrected.
   Alderman Carroll made a Motion to approve the proposed ordinance amendments
to chapter 2 and chapter 13 of the code of ordinances to make all the boards
committees and commissions follow the same procedures for appointments term
length and term expirations and seconded by Alderman Alt.
Unanimous vote; Motion Carried.
   10.   System Development Fee /Utility Rate Study Engineer Selection:
   City Manager Therrien stated that the General Statute mandates that a system
development fee study be completed every 5 years, and this is the year that it
needs to be completed. The utility rate study really helps to make sure our
rates will be responsible and ensure that we're not charging too little or too
much. She said the rate committee recommended that this study be done. She said
bids were sent out and there was one response from Withers Ravenel, and she
recommended using this firm.
   Alderman Carroll made a Motion to approve Withers Ravenel to conduct the
City of Southport system development fee study and utility rate study and
authorize the city manager to sign the contract second by Mayor Pro Tem
Mosteller. Unanimous vote; Motion Carried.
I.   Committee Reports:
   Alderman Allen: no comments
   Alderman Carroll said that the Historic Preservation Commission met last
week, and they are making good process on the guidelines and setting up the
district boundaries. and I hope that in the next few months we'll be seeing
something for us to approve this in the way of guidelines He said the
Commission Is now meeting twice a month and working hard to get that moving. He
said the 4th of July Committee had a fantastic “Shrimp-A-Ro0” and they adopted
artwork last month that looks fantastic so making good progress there. He said
he thinks this will be the greatest 4th of July festival we've ever had.
   Alderman Alt no comment
   Alderman Davis referred to Mayor Pro Tem for Forestry Committee report.
    Alderman Lombard said the Beautification Committee has been busy again they
stained all the benches and swings at the waterfront and cleaned and restored
some of the signs. He said as they do other things in and around the City too
such as now, they are building tables and chairs for Taylor Field.
   Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller said that the Forestry committee the big news is
they're reinstating for the Tree Champion Award and so be on the lookout for
that they're going to do applications on their website and they're going to
promote a whole program around that and they'll become an annual event so that
was the big news from forestry and then I just want to from planning board next
Thursday at 6:00 o'clock here is the regular Planning Board Meeting.
   Mayor Hatem said that ABC Board met on May 10th and had a great meeting.
J.    Managers’ Report:
   City Manager Therrien said that Chief Drew and Communications PIO
Administrator Cheyenne have been working on starting a survey that the public
will get for each of the departments. It will be handed out to them or a QR
code can be used to let the City know how we are doing. Cheyenne is working
individually with each department so that questions are unique to each
department. She asked that if you see one of these surveys to please pick them
up so we can improve things and address concerns. She said the new monthly CIP
report is in the agenda packet . She said that includes the project list that
will give me an idea of where we are with each of our major capital projects .
She announced that the Hurricane Symposium is May 22nd at 5:00 PM.
K.   Mayors Comment
   Mayor Hatem also encourages everyone to come to the Hurricane Expo on May
22nd at the Community Building. He wanted to remind everyone of Memorial Day
May 29th and that Alderman Davis will tell us about one of these ceremonies,
but there will also be a flag lowering ceremony Monday May 29th at 7:30 PM at
the Waterfront Park. He congratulated all the graduates for their
accomplishments. He wished everyone a Happy Mother’s Day.
Board Comments
    Alderman Allen said that on May 23rd the Brunswick partnership for housing
is having a fundraising event at American fish with the Salty Dogs playing
music. There will be food and it's from 6 to 8 pm. He would like to encourage
everybody to support that wonderful organization and what they're doing in our
community.
   Alderman Carroll: none
   Alderman Alt thanked City Manager Therrien for following up with him on the
Habitat for Humanity and moving forward with that conversation.
   Alderman Davis said that there will a Memorial Day Service presented by the
John Smith cemetery foundation and the Bellamy-Joyner Post 213 are sponsoring
and holding the 2023 Memorial Day parade it starts Monday May 29th. The fire
department will showcase the color guard and the antique fire truck.
   Alderman Lombardi: none
   Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller recognized Animal Protective Services Officer Kate
Marshall for getting    a grant from Petco Love and Bissell Pet foundation for
the vaccinations and chips event that took    place at the River Road Animal
Hospital. She said many people participated. She thanked Dr. Travis    for
helping sponsor the event and the Community for participating.
   Mayor Hatem thanked everyone for an excellent meeting. He thanked all the
Nurses and the    Military and Police Forces for all their hard work. He
thanked City Staff for working diligently on    putting meetings together and
providing resources and information for the best interest of the    City, and
the Citizens for their continuing interest in the City of Southport.
A Motion was made to adjourn by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller and seconded by
Alderman Allen.
   Unanimous vote; Motion Carried.
Adjourn:
 
_______________________________          ____________________________
Joseph P. Hatem, M.D., M.P.H., Mayor            Tanya Shannon, Deputy Clerk
JUNE 2, 2023
AGENDA REVIEW MEETING MINUTES
BOARD OF ALDERMEN
AGENDA REVIEW MEETING MINUTES
INDIAN TRAIL MEETING HALL
JUNE 2, 2023
PRESENT:
Mayor Hatem, Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller, Aldermen Allen, Carroll, Davis, and
Lombardi
ABSENT:
Alderman Alt
STAFF PRESENT:
Dorothy Dutton, Assistant City Manager/City Clerk    
Tom Stanley, Public Services Director   
Randy Jones, Community Relations Director   
ChyAnn Ketchum, Communications/PIO
Sydney Heil, Community Building Administrator   
Travis Henley, Development Services Director
Heather Hemphill, Parks and Recreation Director   
Bob Jarvis, City Engineer
Teresa Jones, Finance Specialist   
Paul Gross, Interim Finance Officer
Brandon Stevens, Deputy Finance Officer   
OTHERS PRESENT:
Clark Harris, Unique Places to Save (Joined Remotely)
Tony McEwen, American Flood Coalition
Tish Hatem, City Resident
Pat Kirkman, City Resident
Call to Order
Mayor Hatem called the meeting to order at 9:01 a.m.
Invocation
Alderman Lowe Davis provided the invocation.
Pledge of Allegiance
Mayor Hatem led everyone in reciting the Pledge of Allegiance.
Approval of Agenda
Mayor Hatem gave a quick overview of the agenda and said that one item would be
added. A presentation on the American Flood Coalition would be added as the
second item on the agenda. Alderman Allen made a motion to approve the agenda,
with the additional presentation. The motion was seconded by Alderman Lombardi.
All ayes. Motion carried.
Agenda
   1.
   Ms. Dutton made sure the Board could hear the audio from Mr. Clark Harris.
Mayor Hatem welcomed him to the meeting and thanked him for attending. Mr.
Harris explained the Unique Places to Save program and described the Boiling
Springs Wilderness Conservation Project. That project is a potential land
acquisition of approximately 950 acres between Southport and Boiling Springs
Lakes. The property connects to existing conservation land. The property is
home to several vital species including the Red-cockaded woodpecker and the
Venus Fly Trap. It is also beneficial to the water quality of the region
because it is connected to the headwaters of Orton Creek and the Castle Hayne
Aquifer. Mr. Harris said that he wasn’t speaking to the Board to gain monetary
donations, he was simply requesting a Letter of Support for the project. The
Board directed Ms. Dutton to draft a letter and add it to the Consent Agenda at
the June 8, 2023 Board meeting. Alderman Carroll asked what other
municipalities had shown support? Mr. Harris said that he started with
Southport. After that, he would likely reach out to Boiling Springs Lakes. Mr.
Harris thanked the Board for offering the Letter of Support and said he is
available for any questions that might come up later. Mayor Hatem thanked him
again for attending and the virtual meeting ended.
   2.
   Mr. Tony McEwen, with the American Flood Coalition addressed the Board next.
He explained that the AFC was a national organization that focused on solutions
to flooding and sea level rise. They advocate for smarter, more resilient
planning in all communities. Their mission includes four pillars that includes
economy, communities, rebuilding, and military. He invited the City of
Southport to join the organization for free and take advantage of all the
benefits including advocacy, technical assistance and help acquiring funds to
work on projects pertaining to flooding. Mr. McEwen explained that the AFC is a
great organization because it crosses the political party lines, and both
Republicans and Democrats are members. They have been able to secure funding
for many projects including a transportation flood resilience grant. Ms. Dutton
explained that there was a Resolution in Support of Joining the AFC as an item
on the Regular agenda for June 8, 2023.
   3.
   Travis Henley, the Development Services Director, approached the Board with
more discussion about rights- of-way. He said that he needs direction from the
Board on two items: surfacing and grandfathering. Alderman Davis stated that
before the Board makes a decision, a public meeting should be held, to get
feedback from the public. She added that most driveways are dirt or gravel, and
she thinks it is a mistake to require impervious surfacing. Mayor Pro-tem said
she thinks it is better to have something on paper to discuss, and then adjust
after public comment. Mayor Hatem agreed that it’s best to discuss things
first. He further added that with regards to grandfathering, safety issues
should be addressed right away. But other issues can be managed over time. If
plants in the right of way need to be removed for utility work, they would not
be allowed to be planted back. Mr. Henley suggested a collaborative approach in
which property owners would apply for vested rights of existing encroachments.
But also, egregious offenses should be removed immediately following the
adoption of the amendment. Alderman Carroll questioned who would decide what is
safe? Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller said she prefers an approach that is less severe;
if it interferes with vehicular, pedestrian or bicycle traffic, it should be
removed. She also supports special considerations for corners. She stated that
she feels that hardened structures could have six months to comply with the
ordinance, but vegetation and existing trees should be allowed to stay at the
City’s discretion. Alderman Carroll said he doesn’t feel like the Board or
staff should pick and choose; it should be all or nothing. Alderman Allen added
that he doesn’t understand how some things can be justified, but not others.
   Alderman Lombardi asked about what types of gravel would be required?
Alderman Allen said it would be better to list what is not allowed. There was
some discussion about parking pads, including the driveway in part of the pad,
and also who would maintain the gravel area. Mayor Hatem said that our
Engineer’s would help us determine what kind of gravel/surfacing would be
required. Mr. Henley said that the next time the Board saw the right of way
information, it would be in ordinance format. He would provide both options
regarding grandfathering for the Board’s consideration.
   4.
   Heather Hemphill and Bob Jarvis approached the Board to give an update on
the dredging project. Ms. Hemphill explained that there are two possibilities
to consider. The first dredging area is the area of the federal channel, which
is 50,400 cubic yards. The Board can have just that area dredged, or they can
include an additional area near the City dock. The total for both areas is
55,800 cubic yards. If that additional area is dredged, the boat slips can be
put back at the City dock. The Board agreed that the larger dredging project
would be best.
   5.
   The next item was also regarding the dredging project. TI Coastal Services
had completed the work from the first contract with the City. The next process
is to do the permitting packet. There will be a scoping meeting first for all
the groups involved; and then putting together the permitting packet. The
contract currently being considered is based on an hourly rate, not to exceed
$7,000, including contingency. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller said she was thankful
for the assistance with the permitting process. Mayor Hatem said that it was an
exciting project.
   6.
   ChyAnn Ketchum, the Public Information Officer and Communications staff
addressed the Board and said that the Board’s Symposium session was
approaching. City staff thought it might be better to provide a list of topics
for the Board, so they can narrow down their subject matter and it doesn’t get
too personal. After some discussion, it was decided that Mayor Hatem would talk
about the duties of the Mayor and the Board; Alderman Lombardi would speak to
the Board’s goals and objectives; Alderman Allen would go through the budgeting
process; Alderman Davis would discuss Boards, Committees, and Commissions and
how to volunteer; Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller would discuss ordinances and how they
are created and voted on. Alderman Carroll would discuss the ways the public
can participate in government. At the end of their presentations, the public
will be able to ask questions. Ms. Dutton offered to send the Board various
articles and PowerPoint presentations that might help them with their
presentations.
   7.
   Next, the Board reviewed the Agenda for the June 8, 2023 Board meeting.
There were no questions about the Consent agenda items. Mayor Hatem read
through the agenda items, and when he got to Rescinding the Waiver of the
Credit Card processing fees, the Board had some questions. Teresa Jones, the
Finance Specialist, approached the Board to answer any questions. She explained
that prior to the Covid-19 pandemic, a flat $5.00 fee was added to each
transaction. But the Board waived the fee to encourage more people to pay
remotely instead of coming to the office. The City is usually charged between
1.5-2.5% of the charge. The City also pays $225.00 a month for the subscription
that allows card payments, and $540 as a transaction fee. So far this year, the
City has paid $13,000 in fees for card payments. Alderman Allen asked about
fees for debit versus credit cards. Ms. Jones explained that it was fairer to
charge 2.5% of the amount of the transaction. There was more discussion about
charging all card users the fee instead of only the phone or online payments.
Ms. Jones also stated that they all encourage people to pay using a draft
process through their bank, because there is no fee. Ms. Jones also stated that
Dropbox is available to customers. Dropbox payments are applied like an ACH
transaction and are automatically processed on the 15th of each month.
   There was some discussion about the speed limit in the Yacht Basin area.
Alderman Davis is requesting to make the speed limit 10mph. The other Board
members said there wouldn’t be much difference because everyone has to go so
slowly at the Yacht Basin already.
   Next, was the discussion about the proposed Noise Ordinance amendment.
Several Board members were in support of an exemption for City work and the
City’s contractors, such as the trash collection contractors. The Board asked
Ms. Dutton to review other municipalities to see how they manage their own
workers and equipment. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller also asked for information about
when Public Services is most successful and productive at completing their
jobs?
   Interim Finance Director, Paul Gross, approached the Board to review the
Finance Policies being considered at the Board meeting. He said that since his
appointment, it was apparent that the City did not have important finance
policies in place. The first policy for consideration is the Fund Balance
Policy. After reviewing the Town of Bluffton’s fund balance policy, he
recommends changing his draft policy from 25% to 35%. The Town of Bluffton won
an award for their Fund Balance Policy, and their recommended fund balance is
35%. Mr. Gross added that the City is in good shape; our total fund balance is
62%. Alderman Allen suggested 50% unassigned fund balance. Mayor Pro-tem
Mosteller said that she researched the Town of Bluffton, and they are a larger
area than Southport. The Town of Bluffton is 55 square miles, and they have
other sources of revenue. The Board thanked Mr. Gross for attending the meeting
and also for accepting the Interim Finance Officer position.
F.) There were no Board comments.
G.)
   Mayor Hatem stated that the meeting was excellent. He thanked everyone for
attending, and those watching from home.
H.)
   Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller made a motion to adjourn the meeting, which was
seconded by the full Board. All ayes. Motion carried. Mayor Hatem adjourned the
meeting at 11:12 a.m.
               
                     ______________________________________
                     Joseph P. Hatem, M.D., M.P.H.
                     Mayor, City of Southport
 
________________________________________
Dorothy Dutton
Assistant City Manager/City Clerk
JUNE 6, 2023
BUDGET PUBLIC HEARING
BOARD OF ALDERMEN
BUDGET PUBLIC HEARING
COMMUNITY BUILDING
JUNE 6, 2023 6:00 p.m.
223 E. BAY STREET
SOUTHPORT, NC 28461
PRESENT:
Mayor Joseph P. Hatem
Mayor Pro-tem Karen Mosteller; Aldermen Lowe Davis, John Allen, Tom Lombardi,
and Robert Carroll
ABSENT:
Alderman Alt
STAFF PRESENT:
Bonnie Therrien, City Manager         
Dorothy Dutton, Asst. City Manager/City Clerk
Travis Henley, Development Services Director   
Randy Jones, Community Relations Director
Paul Gross, Interim Finance Officer         
Brandon Stevens, Deputy Finance Officer
Kate Marshall, Animal Protective Services      
Heather Hemphill, Parks & Recreation Director
Charles Drew, Chief Southport Fire Dept.      
Todd Coring, Chief Southport Police Dept.
Tom Stanley, Public Services Director         
Ellie Pittenger, Electrical Superintendent
Sydney Heil, Community Building Administrator
OTHERS PRESENT:
Tish Hatem      Pat Kirkman      Sue Hodgin      Jason Robbins
A)   Call to Order
Mayor Hatem called the meeting to order at 6:03 p.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Lowe Davis gave the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
Mayor Hatem led everyone in the Pledge of Allegiance.
Mayor Hatem read the Ethics Statement.
D)   Approval of Agenda
Mayor Hatem said the order of the agenda was changing so that the overview was
first, then the public hearing and lastly, the fee schedule discussion.
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller made a motion to approve the agenda with the
recommended changes. Alderman Lombardi seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion
carried.
E)   Agenda
Mayor Hatem stated that the proposed budget was great for many reasons; it
lowers the tax rate, provides for the City staff, includes many new positions,
and indicates our enterprise funds are solid. He added that the City is working
toward regionalization. He asked the City Manager to provide an overview of the
budget, and Ms. Therrien approached the podium.
   1.
   Ms. Therrien explained that the budget being presented is the Board of
Aldermen’s consensus budget that they have worked through over the last few
months. At the beginning of the process, the Board began to review the
strategic plan and decide on priorities. This year was Brunswick County’s
revaluation of property. The average increase in Southport was 44%, but there
were some that the value increased 60%, and others than only increased 16%.
   The Board included a 5% cost of living increase for all employees, as well
as a 5% merit increase. The Board stressed the importance of decent wages and
benefits for all employees. We have to retain and attract employees. We have to
address fixed costs and look ahead at state/federal mandates. There are ten new
positions included. In addition, there is a 15.9% increase in revenues and the
fund balances are very healthy.
   There are many capital projects included in the budget: a new comprehensive
plan, a survey and assessment of all the City-owned buildings, stormwater
planning, cross bracing at the City pier, decking for the Community Building, a
parking study, new roofs for the gazebos, and a storage shed for the Parks and
Recreation department. A new dump truck will be paid for partly by Powell Bill
funds and partly with Capital funds.
   The ten positions approved include an additional Building Inspector,
Permitting Tech, an additional Fire/ISO Inspector, Recreation Assistant, two
Full-time paramedics, a promotion for one Public Services staff positions, two
new Public Services positions, make a part-time Community Building Facilitator
position to full-time, a downtown-historic planner position, a part-time plant
waterer, and either a Code Enforcement Officer, or making Alliance Code
Enforcement contracted for full-time hours.
   Ms. Therrien stated that public input is crucial to the budget process. She
encouraged people who were not able to attend this Public Hearing to reach out
to her, or the Board with any questions and concerns.
   Ms. Therrien added that the solutions to reduce taxes in the future would be
to reduce services, gain approval for local option taxes, and find a way to
capitalize on the dollars raised by tourism. The City can also collaborate with
other municipalities to save money on certain projects by regionalizing.
   2.
   Mayor Hatem clapped after the presentation and said that it was excellent.
Ms. Therrien said again that she was disappointed there was no one else there.
A motion was made by the Board to open the Public Hearing at 6:25 p.m. Ms.
Dutton stated that one person had signed up to speak, but there may be others
in the audience. She called Ms. Pat Kirkman to the podium for her comments.
   Ms. Pat Kirkman said that she was very impressed and congratulatory towards
Ms. Therrien and the City staff. There are still a couple of areas for concern,
primarily the cemeteries. Ms. Kirkman said that she came across a document from
the Historical Society that was thirty-two years ago. She read the letter, that
stated the cemeteries were not a priority back then, either. The Old Smithville
Burying Ground was assigned to the Buildings and Grounds department and the
Recreation department. The document stated that no additional monies were
allocated to the maintenance of the cemeteries. Ms. Kirkman then said that
during the last budget cycle, she was told by the Mayor that there would be a
line item for the cemeteries; but there never was. The only relevant item was
for tree removal in the cemeteries. She continued adding that some of the
“asks” in this year’s budget were fairly large, including $1000 for a trash bin
at Northwood Cemetery. Ms. Kirkman added that Ms. Therrien was always very
quick to respond and very helpful. The proposed budget also includes $15,000
for a survey. There was a survey done in the past to mark the corners and
alleyways, but the former City Manager, Gordon Hargrove, requested the markers
be removed for some reason. Now, it is very difficult to find the graves.
$70,670 was requested for a repair and maintenance contract to maintain the
cemeteries. Ms. Kirkman asked if the Board would have to vote on the contract
for maintenance. Does the proposed maintenance contract include the John Smith
cemetery, too? But Ms. Kirkman added that there was still no line item for the
cemetery committee. Ms. Therrien explained to Ms. Kirkman that once the
Cemetery Committee go farther along with their mission and goals, they are
welcome to ask the Board for funds. Mr. Kirkman also asked if it was feasible
to create a new line in the budget for burial permits and plot sales.
   Mayor Hatem stated that if the public compares what is in the budget and all
the work that Public Services can accomplish in the cemeteries, it is a HUGE
improvement. We are making progress and he appreciated her bringing the topic
forward.
   There was no one else interested in speaking.
Alderman Allen made a motion to leave the Public Hearing, which was seconded by
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller. The Mayor closed the Public Hearing at 6:42 p.m. All
ayes.
   3.
   City Manager Therrien asked Ms. Dutton to review the Fee Schedule and any
proposed changes. Ms. Dutton explained that she had worked with the various
Department Heads to make any appropriate changes to the fee schedule. Some of
the changes included the addition of a $35.00 fee for checking a meter at the
request of the property owner when the problem was on the owner’s side. The
Fire fees had increased as high as they are allowed, at the recommendation of
the Fire Association. Some of the building permit and inspection fees were
updated and some changes were made to the fees to rent a park or facility.
There was some discussion about rescinding the waiver from the 2.5% processing
fee for credit card payments in the Utilities department.
F) Board Comments
Alderman Carroll thanked Ms. Therrien, the other Board members, and City staff.
He said that if he only made enough income to cover his bills, what would he do
during an emergency? The City has billions of future expenses. He would like
the tax rate to stay around 0.275 so that the City can better plan for future
projects.
Alderman Allen thanked Ms. Therrien, staff, and Finance. He added we are
fortunate that the City is in a good position.
Alderman Davis said she appreciates all the hard work that went into the
budget. She agreed that the City should plan ahead and work on the
infrastructure.
Alderman Lombardi agreed that there is wisdom in keeping the tax rate neutral
because there is so much to accomplish. He said he would support that.
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller said that she and the Board were so appreciative to
staff for all the hard work that has been done. She said she wanted to mention
that not all property values increased 44%, but some only went up by 17%. She
supports the revenue neutral ad valorem tax because of all the work that has to
be done.
Alderman Carroll said that Southport is in a better place today than this time
last year. Last year, the efforts to move electrical underground was doubled.
He thinks the Board is doing a great thing, and he appreciates everyone’s
thoughts.
There was more discussion about the proposed fee schedule, especially the meter
check fee, and the credit card processing fee. Alderman Lombardi said he
thought that everyone should get charged the fee if the City is getting
charged.
G)
Mayor Hatem thanked everyone for attending and those watching from home. After
a motion by Alderman Allen, and seconded by Alderman Carroll, Mayor Hatem
adjourned the meeting at 7:05 p.m. All ayes.
 
                     ____________________________________
                     Joseph P. Hatem, M.D., M.P.H.
                     Mayor, City of Southport
____________________________________
Dorothy Dutton
Assistant City Manager/City Clerk
JUNE 8, 2023
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
Board of Aldermen
Regular Meeting Minutes
Community Building 223 E. Bay Street
June 8, 2023
6:00 P.M.
Present:
Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor Pro Tem
Karen Mosteller, Alderman
Thomas Lombardi, Lowe Davis, Robert Carroll, John Allen, and Rich Alt( via
Zoom).
Staff Present:
Bonnie Therrien, City Manager
Dorothy Dutton, Assistant Manager/ City Clerk
Todd Coring, Police Chief
Charles Drew, Fire Chief
Heather Hemphill, Parks & Rec. Director
Tom Stanley, Public Services Director
Kate Marshall, Animal Protective Services
Randy Jones, Community Relations Director
ChyAnn Ketchum, Community Relations/PIO
Sydney Heil, Community Building Administrator
Paul Gross, Interim Finance Director
Travis Henley, Development Services Director
Mayor Joseph P. Hatem called the meeting to order at 6:05 P.M. and welcomed
everyone.
Reverend Devon Varnum from Southport Baptist Church gave the Invocation.
The Pledge of Allegiance was led by Mayor Hatem.
D)   Public Comment :
   1.
   Wayne Deutscher, 1015 Softwind Way, is the president of the Hammocks HOA. He
wanted to    dispel rumors that the roads in the Hammocks were not to City
Standards. He said that the City    has deemed the roads acceptable. Mr.
Deutscher said that currently the streets are private and    will hopefully be
turned over to the City. He is opposed to entrances/exits on Stuart Avenue for
   the Oakton Development as well as construction traffic going thru Sand
Dollar Lane.
   2.
   Jack Gordon; 5920 Dutchman Creek Rd. asked for clarification on the Public
Meeting and Public    Hearings for the Conditional Zoning proposed amendment
and if the questions from the Public    will be answered. Mayor Hatem responded
with several dates where the Public will have the    opportunity to make
comments and have questions answered. Mr. Gordon said that the roads in    the
City are terrible and he wants to know when they will be repaired. Mayor Hatem
stated that    in the proposed Budget there are funds to repair the roads, but
before this can begin the water    and sewer infrastructure will need to be
repaired. The maintenance on the roads for minor repairs    will continue.
   3.
   Josh McGee; 195 Gentle Breeze Crt; has some concerns about the streets in
the Hammocks    especially Sand Dollar Lane that will be used for access to the
Oakton Development indirectly. He    does not want to see the private streets
damaged thru construction traffic that will have to be    repaired at the
homeowners expense, and these private streets are nearly ready to turn over to
   the City. He requested that the City put a condition on the accessible
traffic for heavy damaging    construction equipment used on Sand Dollar Lane.
   4.
   Maria Swenson 107 N. Atlantic Ave and also speaking on behalf of Craig
Blanks 5012 Robert Ruark    Drive. She read a statement from Mr. Blanks, the
Manager at the Frying Pan, that stated in    response to the noise complaints
about the early trash pickups for businesses around the yacht    basin. He
stated that the trash service comes when there is less conjunction in the area.
There are    a lot of restaurants and businesses in this area therefore there
is a lot of vehicle and pedestrian    traffic, and it would be beneficial to
keep the service on its regular service schedule. Ms. Swenson    reiterated the
same need to continue the service as it has been for several years. She said
   that cars will park around the dumpsters and the trucks will not be able to
pick up. So, this    will lead to overflow of trash and messy streets. She
concluded that there is no system in    place to measure the noise level and
the few citizens that have issued complaints were aware    that they live near
a business area and the trash service is picked up between 6-7 AM.
   5.
   Paul Swenson 107 N. Atlantic Ave. was in agreement that the trash pickup at
the Yacht Basin has    been this way for many years without any complaints
until now. He said that if the trash trucks    have to change their schedule it
will complicate the area and interrupt the flow of pedestrian and    traffic
flow.
   6.
   Lora Sharkey 432 Cades Trail had concerns about the proposed budget and the
lack of details addressing certain street conditions. She reviewed the numbers
in the budget and the Powell Bill for Streets and she understands there are a
lot of projects to address. But she thinks that money    needs to be budgeted
for the repair of these streets now even if they have to be dug up later. She
   would rather see the $50K for the parking study be spent on street repairs.
   7.
   Pat Kirkman 119 Park Ave she is pleased to see a contractor budgeted in for
the Cemeteries and    that Staff is putting in a lot of hard work to ensure
that the Cemeteries are being properly    recorded and maintained. She urged
the Board to approve the Code of Ordinance Amendment    and By-law Adoption for
the Cemetery Committee.
The Ethics Statement was read by Mayor Hatem.
“If any members know of any conflict of interest or the appearance of a
conflict of interest concerning matters on the agenda, please so state at this
time.”
E)   Approval of the Agenda
   A Motion was made by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller to approve the Agenda with the
amendment to    move item nine on the Consent Agenda “Letter of Support for
Unique Places to Save Land    Acquisition” to item one on the Agenda, second by
Alderman Lombardi. 
   Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
Letter of Support for Unique Places to Save Land Acquisition (Dorrie Dutton)
Code Enforcement Update (Chris Curry, Alliance Code Enforcement)
Resolution to Adopt the Remote Participation Policy (B. Therrien)
Oakton: Preliminary Plat Continued (T. Henley)
American Flood Coalition (B. Therrien and T. Zilinek)
Adoption of a Fund Balance Policy (P. Gross and B. Therrien)
Adoption of Write Off Policy for Uncollectible Accounts (P. Gross and B.
Therrien)
Ordinance Rescinding the Waiver of the Credit Card Processing Fee (B. Therrien)
Dredging Area (H. Hemphill)
Approval of Contract for Dredging Project and Submit Dredging Permit
Application (H. Hemphill)
Request to Schedule the Public Hearing: Conditional Zoning Text Amendment (T.
Henley)
Petition for Contiguous Annexation (T. Henley)
Accept the Petition for Annexation
Instruct the City Clerk to Investigate the Sufficiency of the Petition
Accept the City Clerk's Certificate of Sufficiency
Adopt a Resolution Calling for Public Hearing on July 13, 2023
Noise Ordinance Amendment (T. Henley and Chief Coring)
Yacht Basin Speed Limit (Alderman Davis)
Code of Ordinance Amendment and By-law Adoption: Cemetery Committee (Mayor Pro-
Tem Mosteller, Alderman Davis, Alderman Lombardi)
F)    Approval of the Consent Agenda:
   A Motion was made by Mayor Pro Tem to approve the Consent Agenda, and second
by Alderman    Davis. Unanimous vote; Motion carried.
   1.
    Board of Aldermen Special Budget Meeting Minutes April 24, 2023
   2.
    Board of Aldermen Special Budget Meeting Minutes May 1, 2023
   3.
    Board of Aldermen Agenda Review and Workshop Minutes May 5, 2023
   4.
    Regular Board of Aldermen Meeting Minutes May 11, 2023
   5.
    Board of Aldermen Special Budget Workshop Minutes May 10, 2023
   6.
    Board of Aldermen Special Closed Session Minutes May 10, 2023
   7.
    Restrictive Covenants for Taylor Field (D. Dutton and H. Hemphill)
   8.
    Easement Agreement for Storm Debris (B. Therrien)
   9.
   Reappointment of Jim Powell to the Bald Head Island Transportation Authority
Board
G)   Special Recognition:
   Mayor Hatem presented the following Proclamations.
   1.
   Proclamation for Tourette's Syndrome Awareness Day
   2.
   Proclamation for Juneteenth 2023
H)   Agenda
Letter of Support for Unique Places to Save Land Acquisition.
   Dorothy Dutton, Assistant City Manager/City Clerk read the letter regarding
the proposed project.    A video was presented from the Executive Director of
Unique Places to Save Land Acquisition,    Cork Harris. They are currently
doing a Boiling Spring Lakes Conservation Project funded by the    NC Land and
Water Grant. These programs offer the protection of many species and would like
   to offer the opportunity to Southport for support of the program. Mayor
Hatem said that this is a    wonderful program and that Southport would be
happy to send a letter in support.
    2.    Code Enforcement Update (Chris Curry, Alliance Code Enforcement)
   Mr. Curry came to the podium and gave an overview of the progress to date.
He said that 40 New    Cases were opened, 40 Notice of Violations were issued,
23 Cases were abated, 7 Cases no    progress at present, 10 Abatements in
progress, 7 Notice of Hearings will be sent out and 31 Signs    picked up. He
said that they knock on the doors and meet with the violators and explain the
   situation and how to proceed with compliance. He has introduced himself to
all the Business    Owners and is appreciative of working with the Board and
Staff.
    3.    Resolution to Adopt the Remote Participation Policy
   City Manager Therrien said that some Board members have requested a policy
be put in place to    allow for Board Members to take part and vote in meetings
when they are away from Southport    or cannot leave the house. She said that
she worked with the City Attorney to draft a policy that    if approved would
allow for Board Members voting if necessary while not physically in the
   meeting. Manager Therrien applauded Alderman Alt for participating out of
the country via    Zoom for this meeting. Mayor Pro Tem    Mosteller noted that
on Attachment A , Section A. 1. h    ‘scheduling conflict’ is vague. Also, in
Section B.1 she would recommend 72 hours’ notice in    advance for preparations
by the Staff. Alderman Davis said that sickness and unforeseen    circumstances
can come up and 24 hours’ notice should be efficient for remote participation.
   There was discussion on the amount of time that notice should be provided.
It was the consensus    of the Board to leave the 24 hour notice as stated in
the policy. Mayor Hatem recognized    Alderman Alt via Zoom and thanked him for
his participation while be out of the country.
   A Motion was made by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller to approve the Resolution to
adopt the Remote    Participation Policy as written for Official Meetings for
the Board of Aldermen, second by    Alderman Davis.  Unanimous Vote; Motion
Carried.
    4.    Major Subdivision Preliminary Plat Oakton
   Director Henley gave a recap on the Subdivision. Greg Wayne, on behalf of
Stanley Martin Homes,    is seeking approval of Oakton Subdivision Preliminary
Plat consisting of 42 single family home lots.    The property is located
between Fodale Avenue and Stuart Avenue and is adjacent to the    Hammocks
subdivision. He said there have been no changes to the plat since the Aldermen
last    reviewed it at the May 11th Regular Meeting. This project was first
introduced as a sketch plan at    the July 15, 2021 Planning Board Meeting. The
applicant submitted a preliminary plat application    That was presented at the
November 17, 2022 planning board meeting and gained a    recommendation to the
Board of Aldermen for approval at their March 16, 2023 meeting.
   Mayor Pro Tem asked if the engineering for the stormwater plans will come
later if the plat is    approved. Director Henley said that is correct. She
said that there is concern for the close    proximity to the existing Hammocks
stormwater ponds. Mr. Henley confirmed that an engineering    study will be
performed and a plan will be implemented after approval. Mayor Pro Tem
   questioned if a condition could be placed that the construction traffic will
not be accessible on    Sand Dollar Lane.
   Representative for the applicant Mr. Worth Mills came to the podium and he
said they     appreciated the opportunity to return. He has had further
discussions with the City Attorney and    the Planning Staff. He stated that
they are willing to support the conditions that would prohibit    the
construction traffic using the access from the Hammocks on Sand Dollar Lane.
Alderman    Carroll questioned Director Henley about the conversations on some
of the other    recommendations to the plans for the developers and what was
the feedback. Mr. Henley    explained that Manager Therrien and himself have
had several meetings with the developers over    requested changes for the plat
and the applicants ultimately were not willing to make those    changes.
   Alderman Davis made a Motion to approve the Major Subdivision Preliminary
Plat known as    Oakton with the condition that Sand Dollar Lane in the
Hammocks will not be used for any    construction traffic, and second by Mayor
Pro Tem Mosteller. Ayes: Alderman Davis, Mayor Pro    Tem Mosteller, Alderman
Lombardi, Alderman Alt and Alderman Allen. Nays: Alderman Carroll.    Motion
Carried 5-1.
    5.    American Flood Coalition
   City Manager Therrien discovered an Article in the Brunswick Beacon
regarding from the    American Flood Coalition and found that it would be a
useful program for Southport to be a part    of. She stated that joining will
provide support to address flooding and provide access to the best    practices
and support to develop response to flooding issues and keeping the public
informed.    She said many of the communities in Brunswick County as well as
New Hanover and Pender    Counties have been members for years. She recommended
joining the program not only for the    information that could assist us with
funding but for grant opportunities as well. Mayor Hatem    noted that in the
information guide it states that every $1 spend on pre-disaster mitigation
saves    $4-7 in disaster relief funds.
   Alderman Carroll made a Motion to approve the resolution by the Board of
Aldermen for the City    of Southport to become a member of the American Flood
Coalition and seconded by Alderman    Davis. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
    6.    Adoption of a Fund Balance Policy
   Mr. Paul Gross, Interim Finance Director came to the podium and gave an
overview of the fund    balance policy. He said that a fund balance policy is
essential to the preservation of the financial    integrity of the City and is
fiscally advantageous to both the City and the taxpayer. He said this    policy
establishes objectives; it provides guidance concerning the desired level of
fund balance    that is maintained by the City to mitigate financial risk. He
said that it is proposed to offer an    accessible fund balance of 35% and a
total fund balance of 40%. Mayor Hatem noted that it’s    about the risk that
Southport faces with respect to Natural Disasters such as Hurricanes that other
   municipalities may not have to face. The municipalities on the coast have to
make sure that the    fund balance is adequate. He thanked Mr. Gross for his
presentation. Alderman Allen questioned    if accessible fund balance is the
same as unrestricted fund balance. Mr. Gross said that he defines    accessible
fund balance as the assigned fund balance as well as the unassigned fund bund
balance.    He said he tend to be more conservative in his recommendation and
he excluded the committed    fund balances. Alderman Allen asked what if the
fund balance policy succeeds the amount and    percentages. Manager Therrien
said there would be no issue with that and more could be added.    Alderman Alt
agreed with Alderman Allen with a 35% minimum. He said sometimes it tale 2-
4    years to get a FEMA reimbursement and he said he would be inclined to be
more on the upward    of 50%. Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller stated that she reviewed
the Bluffton policy and they do a 15%    emergency recovery fund within that
unrestricted fund. She said that with not having a 15%    emergency fund she
would prefer to have a 50% fund balance. Mayor Hatem said to consider the
   cost of damages from the most devasting hurricane and relate that cost to
the amount of funds    that need to be available for that recovery.
   A Motion was made by Alderman Alt to adopt the Fund Balance Policy that
states a 50% accessible    fund balance and a total fund balance of 55% and
seconded by Alderman Carroll.
   Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
    7.     Adoption of Write Off Policy for Uncollectible Accounts
   Manager Therrien explained that it has come to her attention by Teresa
Jones, Utility Director,    that there have been accounts that have been
sitting on the books for fifteen years that have    been uncollectible. She
said that the City continues to try to collect but maybe the customer has
   died or there are unknown reasons. She said they do not need to stay on the
books    because it is giving a false sense of what the City is worth. She is
recommending a policy that a    list of those accounts be bought to the Board
to be approved to be removed off the balance sheet.    She said there will
still be continuation of attempts to collect on those accounts.
   Alderman Allen made a Motion to adopt the Write Off Policy for Uncollectable
Accounts and    seconded by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller. Unanimous vote; Motion
Carried.
   8.   Ordinance Rescinding the Waiver of the Credit Card Processing Fee
   Manager Therrien said that before Covid there was a credit card fee that was
added if you used    credit cards to pay utility bills, then when Covid hit the
credit fee charges were waived. She    said that now that Covid cases have
subsided it may be a good idea to come back to the Board to    rescind that
Ordinance and return to charging the credit card use fee. Ms. Therrien said the
reason    for this addition is because the credit card companies charge fees
and the City should not be    responsible for paying these fees. She asked for
approval to rescind this waiver so that credit card    processing fees will go
back into effect. Utility Director Teresa Jones was available to answer
   questions. Alderman Lombardi asked if this fee will be included in walk-in
payments. Ms. Jones    that prior to the waiver there was a $5 convenience fee
charged for taking a payment by phone    or online. That fee was not charged
when making a card payment in person. She said what is being    proposed is
instead of a $5 flat fee is doing a 2.5% fee. Ms. Jones does not recommend
charging    the fees for in person payment because there is a challenge with
the processing system so that    they can charge for credit card processing
fees but not charge fees for using a debit card.    Alderman Davis asked how to
encourage more people to use the automatic draft system. Ms.    Jones said that
this is a very good system, it is free to use for the customers and the City.
There    was discussion on software that could help calculate with the
processing fees for credit card    payments when paid in person or the option
to just allow cash or check payments for in person    payments. It was
discussed that it should be fair across the board and not to just charge
customers    that pay by phone or online since there is a fee for every credit
card transaction. Manager Therrien    said that she preferred to look into
software after a new Finance Director was in position.
   Alderman Allen made a Motion to adopt the Ordinance Rescinding the Waiver of
the Credit Card    Processing Fee and adding the 2.5% processing fee back to
the fee schedule, with the provision    for no fees charged for in person cash
or check payments, effective August 1, 2023. Mayor Pro    Tem Mosteller
seconded the Motion. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
   10 minute break 7:56 p.m.
    9.     Dredging Area
   Parks and Recreation Director Heather Hemphill gave an overview of the
proposed Yacht Basin    Dredging Limits. She said that this will determine the
dredging limits outside of the usage    authorized channel and also the volume
of dredge material in cubic yards that Board would like    included in this
project. She explained that the dredge limits need to be approved in order for
the    project to move forward. If the Board does not approve there will be no
dredging around the city    dock. Dredging is needed to develop the 10
transient and emergency boat slips that have    been previously discussed. She
said TI Coastal Services needs an answer from the Board on    the limitations
of the dredging.
   A Motion was made by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller to authorize TI Coastal
Services to include the    City Dock along with the Federal Channel in the
dredging area and seconded by Alderman Allen.    Unanimous Vote; Motion
Carried.
   10.   Approval of Contract for Dredging Project and Submit Dredging Permit
Application
   Director Hemphill explained that T1 coastal services completed their
original task of surveying the    volume of dredge material. She said now there
will need to be a contract for them to continue    with the permitting process,
coordination for spoil material, meet with the regulatory    stakeholders to go
over plan, generate meeting files and presentation, and prepare/submit the
   full permit application. She said it is recommended to enter into the
contract with Tl Coastal    Services to allow them to coordinate with CAMA. Ms.
Hemphill said that the biggest challenge is    coordinating with the Audubon
Society but they have been in great communication and they will    ensure that
no wildlife will be disrupted.
   Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller made a Motion to authorize the contract with TI
Coastal Services to    continue the work for preparation for full permit
application for dredging the yacht basin at the    cost, but not to exceed
$7,000 and seconded by Alderman Lombardi.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
    11.    Request to Schedule the Public Hearing: Conditional Zoning Text
Amendment
   Alderman Allen made a Motion to set the Public Hearing Zoning Text Amendment
for July 13,    2023 at the Community Building at 6:00 p.m. and seconded by
Alderman Carroll. Unanimous    Vote; Motion Carried.
   12.   Petition for Contiguous Annexation
   Director Henley gave an overview of the request. He said Ms. Gayla
Armstrong, property owner,    has petitioned the City of Southport for
voluntary contiguous annexation of two parcels on    Lookout Point Drive. The
subject properties include Lot 1 (0.793 acres) and Lot 2 (1.515 acres).    The
property recently received final plat approval from the Board of Aldermen to
create the two    lots in question, with the division being recorded with the
Brunswick County Register of Deeds.    The properties are located at the
physical addresses of 6240 and 6245 Lookout Point Drive. He    said that Staff
has determined that this request includes property reflected on the     adopted
Resolution of Consideration and that annexation of this property supports the
town's     long-term objectives. The property is currently located within the
City's Extraterritorial    Jurisdiction and in the Fire Department's
jurisdiction. Annexation is a requirement for the    provision of City sewer
and water service.
   A Motion was made by Alderman Allen to accept the petition for annexation,
accept the City    Clerk to Investigate the Sufficiency of the Petition, accept
the City Clerk's Certificate of     Sufficiency and to set the Public Hearing
on July 13, 2023, and seconded by Mayor Pro Tem     Mosteller. Unanimous Vote;
Motion Carried.
    13.    Noise Ordinance Amendment
   Director Henley presented the Draft Noise Ordinance Amendment to provide a
proposed update    to the City's Noise Ordinance. These amendments are intended
to provide more clarity to the    purpose and intent of the City's noise
regulations, provide definitions to certain terms to remove    elements of
subjectiveness, and provide more certainty to the process for violations of the
City's    noise regulations. Mr. Henley went over each of the proposed
amendments. He did note that any    noise clearly audible at a distance of 100
feet was revised to 500 feet from the property line. Mr.    Henley stated that
this section was updated following Board feedback from their April 11, 2023
   workshop. He also said that in regard to the six items listed in Section 9-
94 for Noises Generally    Exempt there was some discussion at the workshop and
comments from the public regarding    private refuse collection. He said that
draft language has been prepared for consideration of an    additional
subsection G “Private Refuse    Collection and the noise that sounds generated
by    vehicles and other operations engaged in trash and refuse pick up”.
Alderman Carroll stated in    reference to the proposed Section 9-94 subsection
G that he would like to include language    regarding private refuse collection
(dumpsters) that says as long as it is more than 100 ft from a    residential
structure. There was clarification on the term “private pick up”, and it is
dumpsters    that are used by commercial businesses that contract and pay for
pickup to the trash companies    and that is separate than residential trash
services. City Manager Therrien wanted to get    more information on what the
Board was trying to achieve with the language and said that the    language may
need to be revised again. It was the consensus of the Board to table the
   proposed amendment. A Motion was made to Table the proposed Noise Ordinance
Amendment    by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller and seconded by Alderman Carroll.
   Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.   
   14.   Yacht Basin Speed Limit
   Alderman Davis said that there should be consideration for lower speed
limits around the yacht    basin as well as other streets particularly Eighth
Street. She said there are a lot of complaints    about speeding on eighth St.
She said the speed calming devices were put on Stuart Ave and Park    Avenue
but there are other streets where speeding has become a big problem. She would
like    consideration of lowering the speed limits on other streets as well.
Alderman Davis said that as    far as the Yacht Basin speed limit where there
is high vehicular and pedestrian traffic 10 mph is    best. Alderman Alt
recommended to confer with the State Department of Transportation so that
   they can provide on how to proceed with any reduction on the speed limits.
Manager Therrien    said that she asked the risk manager accessor to come and
review liability and safety concerns    and that he did recommend 10 mph.
Alderman Allen agreed with reducing the speed limit to 10    mph and reducing
the sign pollution down at the yacht basin.
   Alderman Davis made a motion to reduce the speed limit to 10 mph around the
yacht basin area.    Motion failed for lack of second. Mayor Hatem needed
clarification on what constitutes the yacht    basin. He asked if this would be
West Bay, West Moore, Yacht Basin Drive, and/or Brunswick    Street. Assistant
Manager/ City Clerk Dorothy Dutton stated that it would be best to have a map
   showing the designated areas that would be included for speed reduction.
There was more    discussion on the exact location of the proposed speed
reduction location(s). Alderman Davis    made a Motion    to reduce the speed
limit to 10 mph from W. Moore St to Yacht Basin Dr, and    from N. Caswell to
Yacht Basin Dr., from Yacht Basin Dr. to W. Bay St, and from W. Bay to S.
   Caswell. Motion failed for lack of second. Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller suggested
conferring with    Chief of Police Todd Coring and get feedback on his
recommendations to what area(s) to include    in the reduction. It was the
consensus of the Board to table the proposed Yacht Basin Speed Limit
   reduction, get a recommendation from Chief Coring, and have the City Manager
bring back to the    Board.
   15.   Code of Ordinance Amendment and By-law Adoption: Cemetery Committee
   Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller stated that the Ad Hoc Cemetery Committee met on May
24th to    discuss and make recommendations regarding the creation of the
Southport Cemetery     Committee. She the Committee’s task was easy because
Mayor Hatem had done a lot of the     legwork and gave the Committee a blue
print on the process. She said they were grateful for his     help. The Board
was provided with a draft of the By-Laws and the proposed ordinance to
establish    the Committee. Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller made a Motion to adopt the
proposed By-laws and the    Code of Ordinance Amendment for the Ad Hoc Cemetery
Committee and seconded by Alderman   Davis. Unanimous vote; Motion Carried.
I.    Committee Reports
   Alderman Carroll said the Historic Preservation Commission met on June 21st.
He said the    Commission is working hard on the guidelines and the standards.
He said Director Henley and    Planner Meehan have gone through another
Community’s guidelines along with the Committee    and he hopes that the Board
will be presented with that information soon.
   Alderman Lombardi said that he was not at the last Beautification cleanup
but he said the    Chairman gave him an update. He said that they had finished
some staining on the benches,    the garbage disposals and some areas at the
Waterfront Park. He said they did some weeding and    did some work on the
benches and tables at Taylor Field Park.
   Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller reminded everyone of the Planning Board Meeting on
June 15th.
   Mayor Hatem said the ABC Board met and note that they had a 24% increase
from last May in    terms of their retail sales.
J.    Manager’s Report
   Manager Therrien said that the June Symposium is June 12th and it will
highlight Mayor Hatem    and the Board of Aldermen. She also noted that ChyAnn
had put together a flyer on Hurricane    Safety that will go out with the
Utility Bills in July. She recognized several employees for their    longtime
service with the City.
K.   Mayor’s Comments
   Mayor Hatem announced June 10th will be a Community Cookout at Dosher
Memorial Hospital    honoring their 93rd Anniversary, and a groundbreaking
ceremony for the Emergency Department    Building. He reminded everyone of Flag
Day on June 14th, and that Southport is celebrating    Juneteenth on Saturday
June 17th. He said that today is June 8th and UN World Ocean Day and    we are
fortunate to live near the Ocean. Mayor Hatem thanked everyone for their
attendance    and wished everybody a Happy Father’s Day.
L.   Staff Reports included in the Agenda Packet.
M.   Board Comments
   Alderman Davis said that now that a Cemetery Committee has been established
the City will be    accepting applications for members soon.
   Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller recognized ChyAnn Ketchum for becoming a NOAA Ready
Nation    Ambassador and thanked her for going above and beyond as the City’s
Public Information Officer.
   Mayor also recognized Dorothy Dutton and Allayna Dail for completing the
Brunswick Leadership    Program and thanked them for all that they do.
N.    Closed Session
   A Motion was made by Alderman Allen to go into closed session per N.C.G.S.
143-318.11 (a)(5):    To establish, or to instruct the public body's staff or
negotiating agents concerning the position to    be taken by or on behalf of
the public body in negotiating (i) the price and other material terms    of a
contract and second by Alderman Carroll. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried. 8:43
p.m.
   A Motion was made to return to open session Alderman Allen and second by
Alderman Lombardi.
   Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried. 8:47 p.m.
   Mayor Hatem wished everyone Happy 4th of July.
O.    Adjourn
   Alderman Allen made a Motion to adjourn and second by Mayor Pro Tem
Mosteller.
   Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.   8.48 p.m.
 
_________________________________         __________________________   
Joseph P. Hatem, M.D., M.P.H., Mayor            Tanay Shannon, Deputy Clerk
JUNE 21, 2023
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
BOARD OF ALDERMEN
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILING
JUNE 21, 2023
PRESENT:
Mayor Pro-tem Karen Mosteller, Alderman Alt, Alderman Carroll, Alderman Davis,
and Alderman Lombardi. Alderman Allen joined by telephone because of some
trouble with his return flight.
ABSENT:
Mayor Hatem was unable to attend.
STAFF PRESENT:
Bonnie Therrien, City Manager
Dorothy Dutton, Assistant City Manager/City Clerk
Paul Gross, Interim Finance Officer
Brandon Stevens, Deputy Finance Officer
Randy Jones, Community Relations Director
ChyAnn Ketchum, Communications/PIO
Sydney Heil, Community Building Administrator
OTHERS PRESENT:
Just a few citizens were in attendance.
A) Call to Order
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller called the special meeting to order at 6:00 p.m. She
announced that she would preside over the meeting in the Mayor’s absence.
B) Alderman Lowe Davis provided the invocation.
C) Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller led everyone in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D) Alderman Carroll made a motion to approve the agenda. Alderman Lombardi
seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried. 
E) Agenda
   1.
   Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller explained that first on the agenda was the adoption
of the budget and budget ordinance. She thanked the City Manager and the
Interim Finance Director for all of their hard word. She also thanked the
Department Heads.
   Alderman Carroll made a motion to approve the FY 23-24 Budget and Budget
Ordinance with the tax rate of 0.275, the neutral tax rate. Alderman Carroll
explained that he would like to see the extra $459,000 in the Capital Projects
Fund. He added that this tax rate allows the City to maintain a robust capital
improvement fund to accomplish projects without relying too much on outside
sources. The City can allocate funds strategically.
   Alderman Alt countered by stating that last year, the tax rate was raised by
ten cents. The City hired eleven new employees. He added that the workforce
study was still not completed, and he doesn’t feel like any of the positions
are justified besides the paramedics. In addition, he added that the budget
that Alderman Carroll has motioned to adopt is not the same one that the public
has been considering for the past two weeks. He said he understands where
Alderman Carroll is coming from, but he would oppose it, because he doesn’t
think the positions are justified. Alderman Alt added that the sale of the
Sunny Point property can be used for capital projects. In fact, Alderman Alt
stated that he is going to vote against both proposed budgets, because he
doesn’t feel the positions are justified.
   Alderman Davis stated that she also agrees with the goals and objectives
that Alderman Carroll described. But she does not believe that the tax rate of
0.2485 would prevent the City from doing those same projects. She explained
that if the City has a higher tax rate in conjunction with the County tax rate,
it creates an unnecessary hardship for our citizens.
   Alderman Lombardi agreed with Alderman Carroll. The City has kicked the can
down the road so much that we are now in a bad position with our
infrastructure. A tax rate of 0.275 will allow the City to save 459,000 that
can be applied towards projects. He added that the Board can act now or have to
raise the tax rate more next year and the projects will likely be more
expensive.
   Alderman Carroll said it is easier to eat the elephant one bit at a time. He
wants to be responsible to the citizens of Southport, but he feels like this is
the responsible thing to do. He added that he understands Alderman Davis’s view
point, too. The Board must keep in mind those in the City who are less
fortunate.
   Alderman Davis asked for clarification as to what the Board was giving up
with the 0.2485 tax rate. City Manager Therrien explained that everything would
be the same, except for the additional $459,000 in tax revenue.
   Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller provided the definition of tax neutral. She also
explained that Brunswick County increased their taxes by one-half cent above
the neutral tax rate, which equals approximately $10.00 on a $200,000 home.
Alderman Carroll restated his motion. There was no other discussion. Alderman
Carroll, Alderman Allen, Alderman Lombardi, and Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller were
all ayes. Alderman Alt and Davis were noes.
F) Mayor Pro-tem
commented that in January, the Board held their strategic planning meeting.
Staff was the first asset identified, and it was important to conduct the
salary study. The beauty and history of Southport was identified as two of the
external strengths. The proposed budget includes funding for Capital
Improvement projects, dredging, a Yacht Basin comprehensive plan, sidewalks,
and stormwater projects. The City is taking big steps.
G) Alderman Allen
and Alderman Carroll had no comments. Alderman Alt added that while they do not
all agree with the outcome, they are not all mad at each other; this is a
democracy.
Alderman Davis reminded the public of the flag lowering ceremony that is taking
place every evening at the waterfront.
Alderman Lombardi had no comments.
H) Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller
stated that the Board had included a Closed session on the agenda per N.C.G.S.
143-318.11 (a) (5). After a motion by Alderman Lombardi and seconded by
Alderman Carroll, the Board went into Closed Session at 6:26 p.m.
I) Adjourn
The Board moved back to open session at 6:48 p.m., after a motion made by
Alderman Allen, who had arrived in person at the beginning of the closed
session. Alderman Davis seconded the motion. All ayes. Mayor pro-tem adjourned
the meeting at 6:49 p.m., after a motion by Alderman Allen and seconded by
Alderman Lombardi.
 
                   _____________________________________
                  Joseph P. Hatem, M.D., M.P.H.
                  Mayor, City of Southport
__________________________________
Dorothy Dutton
Assistant City Manager/City Clerk
JUNE 28, 2023
SPECIAL PUBLIC MEETING
Board of Aldermen
Special Public Meeting
Community Building 223 E. Bay Street
June 28, 2023
6:00 P.M.
Present:
Mayor Pro Tem Karen Mosteller, Aldermen Thomas Lombardi, Lowe Davis, Robert
Carroll, John Allen, and Rich Alt.
Absent:
Mayor Joseph P. Hatem
Staff Present:
Bonnie Therrien, City Manager
Dorothy Dutton, Assistant Manager/ City Clerk
Maureen Meehan, City Planner
Tanya Shannon, Deputy Clerk
ChyAnn Ketchum, Public Information Director
Sydney Heil, Community Building Administrator
Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller called the meeting to order at 6:02 P.M. and welcomed
everyone.
Reverend Alderman Lowe Davis gave the Invocation.
The Pledge of Allegiance was led by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller.
Agenda
Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller gave thanks and appreciation to the Planning Staff and
the Planning Board for all the work that they have done to bring forward the
proposed text amendment to update the Conditional Zoning language in the UDO.
City Manager Bonnie Therrien came to the podium and said that she will be
acting as moderator this evening and went over some of the guidelines on how to
respectfully provide public comments.
   3.
   Mayor Pro tem Mosteller provided an introduction of Dorothy Dutton Assistant
City Manager/City Clerk and Maureen Meehan City Planner for the presentation
and explanation of Conditional Zoning.
   Ms. Dutton presented a review of the proposed amendment. She explained the
differences    between Conditional Zoning versus Conventional Zoning, and the
benefits of Conditional Zoning.
E.   Board Comments and Questions
   Alderman Allen asked if Conditional Zoning project was approved could it be
modified. Ms. Dutton said that it could, but it would have to go back through
the same process for approval again. He asked about the non-contiguous open
space provisions and if it was allowable in CZ. Ms. Dutton stated that it is
discouraged in the current UDO, but she believes that developers could request
it if applying for CZ.
   Alderman Carroll thanked Staff for the presentations and explaining the
process and use of CZ in    a simplified matter, and how it would work for the
City.
   Alderman Davis thanked everyone for attending and said that she was here to
listen to the Public    and help address some of the concerns.
   Alderman Lombardi said that many citizens have requested to hear the pros of
CZ and he said that Ms. Dutton did a great job on providing that information.
   Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller asked for consideration to amend the process and
make the pre- application conference a required step instead of an optional
step. That will allow staff to provide additional guidance regarding the
application and then require the community input meeting. Ms. Dutton explained
that having the public input meeting prior to presenting to the Planning Board
allows the Planning Board to hear concerns from the public and for the
applicant to take suggestions and comments back to review for recommended
revisions. Alderman Mosteller said that CZ is a voluntary application, and the
process is more stringent. She believes that it would be better if staff had a
conference with the developers before it is presented to the public for input.
   Alderman Lombardi asked if CZ would eliminate PUD. Planner Meehan said that
as it written now it does not remove PUD from the ordinance. Alderman Allen
asked if CZ would replace PUD. Ms. Meehan said that mostly it would. Ms. Meehan
said that it would be more beneficial for the land owner to use the CZ process.
Alderman Allen stated that it may be redundant to have both. Ms. Dutton said
that it would be up to the Board to make that decision and to decide which
suits the best needs of the City.
   Alderman Alt stated that he understands that with CZ there will be input
from the citizens. However, he said after going through a lengthy three year
PUD process where many citizens voiced concerns, but only a few citizens wanted
to work through an agreement. He said that if there was that much input from
the citizens and it did not change the outcome, how would CZ be able to do
that. Ms. Dutton explained the legislative PUD process and that projects can be
denied without legal consequences though CZ.
F)   Public Comment :
   1.
   Ginny Prunty; 5906 Dutchman Creek Road; stated that she was pleased to that
the approved budget included an update on the Comprehensive Plan. She said this
plan is a guide to the future of the City. She asked the Board not to approve
the proposed Conditional Zoning Text Amendment until after the Comprehensive
Plan has been updated.
   2.
   Francesca Slaughter; 6272 Cattail Court; said that developers are only
concerned about profits. She questioned how CZ could be safeguarded from
decisions that are made between the Boards and the developers. She would like
to see that the UDO and the Comprehensive Plan are updated and revised to
prevent the mistakes made from the past.
   3.
   Shirley Sullivan; 5002 Seaward Court; is opposed to CZ for all of Southport.
She asked if this type of zoning would be spot zoning or contract zoning and
would that not be illegal. Manager Therrien said that the City Attorney will be
consulted regarding this question. She states the amendment is contradictory
and allows to much flexibility.
   4.
    Rebecca Kelly; 5971 Dutchman Creek Road; she stated that with the current
process she has seen    the City and the Public work through a large
development process. She questioned, instead of    adding    a CZ text
amendment to the UDO why not consider revising the UDO and updating the
   Comprehensive Land Use Plan. Alderman Allen said that updating the
Comprehensive Land Use    Plan will take approximately two years and CZ would
allow for protection and a better     outcome for the City. She said that
without revisions in the UDO and an updated Plan    developers will find holes
in the Ordinance.
   5.
    June McWhorter; 126 Park Avenue; has recently moved to Southport and said
that she is concerned about major development and would like to ensure that
trees are protected and preserved.
   6.
   Marcus & Marty Younts; 285 Lord Thomas Avenue; are concerned about
development and the protection of wildlife and the conservation of land.
   7.
    Jack Gordon; 5920 Dutchman Creek Road; wanted clarification on why the
proposed Conditional Zoning    Amendment would be any different than the
Traditional Zoning process in the UDO. Alderman Allen replied that Conditional
Zoning would be part of the UDO and it would be another process that developers
can request to help achieve the best outcome for the community and the
developer. Mr. Gordon asked if CZ was adopted how could it be implemented and
controlled when arguments of precedence have already been established. Alderman
Allen replied that every application for CZ is different and reviewed on merit.
   The Board had a discussion about how the property would be affected if
property was sold. Ms. Dutton explained that after the submittal of the
application the property owner at the time has vested rights and there are
statues of limitations to complete the process. After approval and an agreement
has been made the conditions of the rezoning would be recorded with the
Register of Deeds that would follow the property and not the owner.
   8.
   Karin Rife; 5980 Dutchman Creek Road; questioned why a developer would
choose to go through the CZ process when the PUD process is not as lengthy or
complicated. Alderman Mosteller explained that CZ would offer the developer the
opportunity to design a plan that better fits their vision and is more
desirable for the community. She stated that CZ would be a process that
developers can apply for to request specific amendments to allow for
negotiations and compromises. This process would allow conditions to be placed
on the zoning approval that would be appealing for the community and agreeable
to the developer. Ms. Rife questioned what happens when the vested rights
period expires. Ms. Dutton stated that once the vested rights have expired the
process will have to start over. Ms. Rife said that she has heard different.
Ms. Dutton said they would have to consult with the City Attorney.
   9.
   Rich Bandera; 409 N. Burrington Avenue; is not in favor of Conditional
Zoning. He feels like the density    could be manipulated. He asked what the
magic number of units per acre would be and said that it has not been
confirmed. Mr. Bandera said at the Planning Board meeting it was stated towns
that do not use residential CZ and it was Oak Island and Sunset Beach. He feels
the reason that they do not want it there is because that is where they live.
He said there was an article in the Star Newspaper that stated that the City of
Wilmington with CZ developers are coming in and requesting more density. He
said the Zoning and Planning Department in Wilmington have said that they
cannot follow their Comprehensive Land Use Plan because they are running out of
land. He asked the Board to vote against the CZ Text Amendment.
   10.
   Dr. Karen Beardslee Kwansy & Family; 304 Willis Drive; submitted a letter
that was read by the Deputy    Clerk. They stated that the Comprehensive Plan
should be updated first so that the residents can provide input on what they
hope Southport will become in the future. They said that any necessary zoning
amendments can be addressed after that vital work is completed.
   11.
    Lois Gandy; 5961 Spikerush Trail; stated the coastal towns have become very
vulnerable. She said    that climate change is very real and that the more
trees that are removed the more exposed we    are. She said that there is a lot
of discussion on climate change but rarely hears it from local    leaders. She
doesn’t understand why CZ would be considered for a developer that could
request    higher density and loss of tree canopy and protection. She would
like to see the Board become    more proactive in addressing climate issues for
the future of the city. Alderman Allen explained    that with the CZ process
more trees will be saved. He said that the units can be clustered so that
   more open space would be available for the preservation of trees.
   12.
   Ray Martino; 6065 Sullivan Ridge Road; said that he does not trust
Conditional Zoning and that he    does not trust the Board. He said that
Conditional Zoning needs to be explained so people can    understand it.
Although, he thanked Ms. Dutton for her presentation and explanation. He said
he    was in favor of development because he wants a Harris Teeter nearby.
   13.
   Steven Gandy; 5961 Spikerush Trail; would like to follow up on the topic of
density. He feels that for example the Indigo Plantation Phase 2 project, the
developers could utilize CZ because they want to build as many units as
possible. Alderman Allen said he did not know what the developers would apply
for. He said the request can be denied and that the property could stay zoned
at R-20. Mr. Gandy said he sees CZ as allowing more density than the current
UDO would allow. He feels that there is no benefit to the City to allow CZ.
Alderman Allen said that there are benefits that have been discussed in the
entire meeting.
   Alderman Davis questioned the increase in allowable density and how would
that be decided. And she asked what about the guidelines and standards for CZ.
Ms. Dutton explained that some of the items that the applicant could request
for the use of CZ would be change/waiver of existing standards in exchange for
almost any additional feature/condition, including amount or types of open
space, neighborhood design, housing types, or community amenities, the
negotiation for more connectivity of sidewalks to other communities in the city
or anything that could make the development more favorable to the community.
Alderman Davis asked if that included height restrictions. Mayor Pro-tem
Mosteller stated that height limes have to abide by the current UDO and that is
not negotiable. Ms. Meehan said that also the Future Land Use Plan will also
guide the amount of density that is allowable. Alderman Alt stated that there
are many things that need to be updated in the Comprehensive and he feels like
things are moving faster than what is intended. He would like to see this Plan
updated to direct how the City will look and feel. Ms. Dutton explained that
the principles of the Land and Comprehensive Plan will not change with the use
of CZ.
   Mr. Bandera came back to the podium and said he would appreciate it if
someone could research    why Oak Island and Sunset Beach do not allow
residential conditional zoning on the island. He is    concerned that through
the process and with the administration of review of CZ, staff could
   potentially recommend approval for higher density under certain conditions
   Alderman Davis suggested more review on the topic with question from the
public to better    understand the process of CZ and the pros and cons before a
decision is made. She also suggested    having the city attorney present at the
meetings for Conditional Zoning review.
   Mayor Pro-Tem Mosteller concluded that the UDO is a living document and in
regard to the    proposed CZ amendment there will be more opportunities for the
public to engage. There will be    a public hearing on July 13th. She thanked
the public, the City Manager, Assistant City Manager,    the Planning Staff,
and the Planning Board for their hard work.
G.    Adjourn
   Alderman Alt made a motion to adjourn, which was seconded by Alderman
Lombardi.
   Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried. Meeting adjourned at 8.40 p.m.
 
_____________________________________            _____________________________________    
Karen Mosteller, Mayor Pro-Tem                   Tanya Shannon, Deputy Clerk
JULY 7, 2023
AGENDA MEETING MINUTES
Board of Aldermen
Agenda Meeting Minutes
Indian Trail Meeting Hall 113 W Moore St.
July 7, 2023
9:00 A.M.
Present:
Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor Pro Tem
Karen Mosteller, Aldermen
Rich Alt, Robert Carroll, Tom Lombardi, John Allen, and Lowe Davis.
Staff Present:
Dorothy Dutton, Assistant City Manager/City Clerk
Randy Jones, Community Relations/Tourism Director
ChyAnn Ketchum, Communications and Public Information Officer
Travis Henley, Development Services Director
Paul Gross, Interim Finance Director
Absent:
None
Mayor Joseph P. Hatem called the meeting to order at 9:01 A.M. and welcomed
everyone to the meeting.
The Invocation was given by Reverend Alderman Davis.
The Pledge of Allegiance was led by Mayor Hatem.
A Motion to approve the Agenda was made by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller and seconded
by Alderman Lombardi.
Unanimous vote; Motion carried.
Agenda
Emergency Operating Procedure (David McIntyre, Brunswick County)
Short-Term Rentals Presentation and Discussion (T. Henley and T. Jones)
Review of July 13, 2023 Board of Aldermen Agenda
Emergency Operations Procedure
   Mr. David McIntyre, the Deputy Director of Emergency Management for
Brunswick County, gave a     presentation on the complete overwrite of the
emergency operations and procedure plan for all of     Brunswick County.
Included in the updates are four levels of activation depending on the scale of
the    event. A county liaison has been added to the plan to be in direct
contact with the city manager to    coordinate information between the city and
the county, which will help communication flow better with    one point of
contact. The plan will be reevaluated and updated every five years. Alderman
Alt clarified    that all FEMA assistance and reimbursement requests would fall
under the center for documentation box.    Mr. McIntyre confirmed that the
Documentation Unit’s responsibilities are to assist with all    documentation,
receipts, contracts, reps, etc. Alderman Alt asked if the county’s finance
officers would    be in charge of their FEMA submittal plan. Mr. McIntyre said
yes.
Short-Term Rentals Presentation
   Development Services Director Henley explained that everything in the UDO
regarding short-term rental and homestays is being enforced, with the exception
of registration requirements. The text amendment is being presented to the
Planning Board at their next meeting. The primary regulation is how the use of
the STR is permitted. Mr. Henley said the city would still have legal
nonconformities if they were established under the 2021 ordinance. Alderman
Carroll questioned if there is a known vacation rental that was not part of the
original permitting process and what will be done about it. Mr. Henley said
that enforcement would be a challenge, but some recommendations would be to use
word of mouth, direct observation, checking vacation rental websites, room
occupancy tax records, or seeing frequent car rotation. Mr. Henley said that
once unpermitted vacation rentals are identified, it would be treated as a
zoning violation, a notice would be sent to the owner of violation by code
enforcement, and if necessary, a court order would issue an injunction.
Alderman Davis asked how the public could see the master list of vacation
rentals so that citizens can be aware of which ones have been permitted. Mr.
Henley said that he could work on getting the master list available to the
public and that the finance department is getting a handout on the rules and
who to contact regarding STRs to put in the utility bills. There was more
discussion on the enforcement and the process for violations. Mr. Henley said
that the process for violations is written in the UDO but may need additional
language with more teeth. There was more discussion on how to manage
enforcement. Mr. Henley said that hiring enforcement just for vacation rentals
would be very expensive. Alderman Allen would like to look more into
outsourcing for assistance.
Agenda Review
Public Hearing: Conditional Rezoning 
There was discussion on whether there would be a vote and if there would be
interaction with the public comments. Mayor Hatem said there would not be a
vote, and there could potentially be more workshops if needed. He said there
would be interaction with the public from the Board and Staff.
Maritime Museum Concession Agreement.
Mr. Tom Hale, Chairman of the Board of Directors with the Museum. He gave a
brief recap on the history of the museum and the agreement that they have had
for the past ten years. He said the current agreement will expire on May 31,
2024. Alderman Alt questioned who would be responsible for the maintenance of
the building. Mr. Wayne Berry responded that the “Friends of the Maritime
Museum” are responsible for the maintenance of the building, and this is why
the “Friends” are part of the concession agreement. Mr. Berry said that the
City only maintains the insurance on the building but not the contents.
Alderman Davis asked for clarification on which building(s) they would be
maintaining. Mr. Berry said the two buildings where they occur, the original
museum and the officers’ quarters that, have now been combined. Mr. Hale noted
that in the concession agreement, they had recommended some minor edits with
regard to what the state requirements are, not the city. He said the “Friends”
have paid a lot for the operating expenses, and he said they are asking as a
non-profit of NC that the state cover the utility bills, landscaping, and
contracting.
WK Dickson Contract Amendment. 
Alderman Alt questioned the length of time it would take to fix the three pump
stations. He said it appears to be about 2.5 years, and he believes that is
exceedingly long. Assistant Manager/ Clerk Dutton said that she would talk to
City engineer, Tom Zilinek to see if a shorter time period would be possible.
In a prior conversation, Mr. Zilinek explained to her that the problem was
actually getting the repair parts from the manufacturers. Mr. Zilinek will be
attending the Board Meeting.
Financial Policies:
Mr. Gross, Interim Finance Director, went over the water and sewer rates on
split parcels of land. He explained there are approximately thirty parcels of
land in the city limits that are split with the ETJ. Sixteen of these parcels
have been developed. He said there is no policy on how to process these sixteen
homes for billing purposes. He explained that some parcels are paying 40%
inside city rate and 60% outside rate. There are four that are only paying the
outside city rate. After consulting with the city attorney, it was decided that
there needs to be a policy on how to define who is getting the lower rate
versus the higher rate. It was suggested that a policy specifically defining
the cut-off was a parcel of land is at least 25% in the city limits, they will
get the inside water and sewer rates as well as debris and recyclable pickup.
Mr. Gross said those that are paying the 25% inside rate could request
annexation. Alderman Carroll suggested to try and get these customers annexed
into the city limits. Mr. Gross said that could be looked into, but there he
was unsure how that would affect their property tax. Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller
questioned if they were in the 25% threshold, would they be allowed to vote?
Mr. Gross said he would look into the answer.
Mr. Gross continued with a proposed Powell Bill policy and said that it was
written 99% verbatim off the Powell Bill Website. Some additions include what
are the responsibilities of the staff in Southport. He said the policy would be
very specific on how the Powell bill money can be used. It also provides a
deadline for the Development Services Department to meet. Also, for the Finance
Department to meet expenditure report deadlines.
Wilmington Metro Planning vs. Cape Fear vs. Grand Strand:
Mr. Henley explained that the city is in the Cape Fear Rural Planning
Organization (RPO). There are pros and cons to RPO, GSATS and MPO’s. Alderman
Allen questioned if cities/towns were leaning more towards going with Grand
Strand. Mr. Henley said it depends on the location. It was the consensus of the
Board to notify each planning organization to let them know that the city is
interested in their provisions. The Board would like more information on what
would be the best option for Southport.
Noise Ordinance:  
Mr. Henley noted that the only change since the last meeting in June was that
there was a section added for refuse pickup. This states that certain noises
for refuse pickup will be prohibited prior to 6 AM. Alderman Davis asked about
landscaping tools that can be a nuisance. Mr. Henley said that there is a
provision in the ordinance that would allow this type of work to be performed
during certain hours. Alderman Davis also has concerns about outdoor music,
such as the Haven, that are a nuisance to adjacent residents. Mr. Henley
explained that there are sections that pertain to the distance of the noise and
also how it is perceived. Mr. Henley said that the Police could be called to
see if the noise violates any of those provisions in the Code of Ordinances.
There was discussion on ways to address the issue, such as contacting the owner
of the business to see if there could be an agreement on managing the noise or
requesting a buffer that would direct the music forward away from the
residents.
Right of Ways:
Mayor Hatem stated that he believes in the cooperative use of the right of way.
He said people had maintained them with shrubs and trees over decades. He said
that there comes a point where if there is something unsafe, a hazard, or if
the city needs to do work, then people will need to understand that it will be
removed. He recommended putting a hard stop on all private usage of the right
of ways moving forward. Mr. Henley said the surfacing of the parking spaces
will remain, as stated in the UDO. The other issue would be grandfathered in
the existing use. There are three options (1) no grandfathering; (2)
grandfathering to a point that the city would have to move it and once it is
removed, it cannot be put back; (3) grandfathered in and can be kept until the
city has to remove it and then it could be put back. There was a lot of
discussion on how to manage. It was the consensus of the Board to have all
hardened structures above grade to be removed and allow the vegetation to
remain unless it had to be removed for hazards or work. This could start the
process of managing the right of ways. There will need to be more discussion
before a decision is made. And the Board would like to host a public meeting/
s to get more public input before deciding.
Request for Public Hearing for ZTA Sign Illumination and ZMA( MF to R-10 ) for
August 10th was discussed.
F.    Mayor's Comments:
Mayor Hatem thanked everyone for attending.
G.    Board Comments:
Alderman Lombardi mentioned that the newspaper ran an article stating the
   440    acres at Sunny Point had been sold. He wanted to make sure that
people were aware that is false.
H.    Adjourn:
A Motion was made by Alderman Lombardi to adjourn and was Seconded by Mayor Pro
Tem    Mosteller.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
Adjournment: 11:11 A.M
 
______________________________         _________________________________
Joseph P. Hatem, M.D., M.P.H                Tanya Shannon, Deputy Clerk
Mayor, City of Southport
JULY 13, 2023
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
Board of Aldermen
Regular Meeting Minutes
Community Building 223 E. Bay Street
July 13, 2023
6:00 P.M.
Present:
Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor Pro Tem
Karen Mosteller, Aldermen
Thomas Lombardi, Rich Alt, Lowe Davis, Robert Carroll, and John Allen.
Staff Present:
Dorothy Dutton, Assistant City Manager/ City Clerk
Tanya Shannon, Deputy Clerk
Todd Coring, Police Chief
Charles Drew, Fire Chief
Heather Hemphill, Parks & Rec. Director
Maureen Moore, Parks and Rec. Program Specialist
Tom Stanley, Public Services Director
Kate Marshall, Animal Protective Services
Randy Jones, Community Relations Director
ChyAnn Ketchum, Community Relations/PIO
Sydney Heil, Community Building Administrator
Paul Gross, Interim Finance Director
Mo Meehan, City Planner
Travis Henley, Development Services Director
Absent:
   Bonnie Therrien, City Manager
Mayor Joseph P. Hatem called the meeting to order at 6:03 P.M. and welcomed
everyone.
The Invocation was given by Mother Lisa Erdeljon, St. Phillips Episcopal
Church.
The Pledge of Allegiance was led by Mayor Hatem.
D)   Public Comment :
   1.
   Director of Community Relations Randy Jones thanked everyone for a fantastic
4th of July Festival and appreciated all the volunteers and staff that
participated.
   2.
   Ray Martino, 6065 Sullivan Ridge Rd, commented on the outdoor music noise
complaints that he heard about on Facebook. He does not want to discourage
outdoor music because it is a big part of the character of Southport.
   3.
      Adam Steadman, 5968 Dutchman Creek, wanted to express disappointment with
the recent budget. He said there seemed to be an informal consensus of a 24% ad
valorum rate, and then at the last second, it was bumped up to 27%. He thinks
that this is unacceptable. He understands the desire to keep everything revenue
neutral. He feels this increase should be gilded more towards repairing the
infrastructure instead of soliciting more staff.
The Ethics Statement was read by Mayor Hatem.
“If any members know of any conflict of interest or the appearance of a
conflict of interest concerning matters on the agenda, please so state at this
time.”
E)   Approval of the Agenda
Alderman Davis made a Motion to approve the agenda with an amendment to include
a        proclamation for local baseball player Walter Jenkins to item G (2)
and there was a second by Alderman Lombardi.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
F)    Approval of the Consent Agenda
Budget Amendment #5
Regular Agenda Review and Workshop Meeting Minutes June 2, 2023
Special Board of Aldermen Budget Public Hearing Minutes June 6, 2023
Regular Board of Aldermen Meeting Minutes June 8, 2023   
Special Board of Aldermen Budget Adoption Meeting Minutes June 21, 2023
Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller made a Motion to approve the Consent Agenda and it was
seconded by Alderman Carroll.
Unanimous vote; Motion Carried.
G)   Special Recognition
Mayor Hatem presented the following Proclamations.
(1) Proclamation Recognizing Parks and Recreation Month. 
(2) Proclamation Recognizing Baseball Player Walter Jenkins.
H)   Agenda
   1.
   Public Hearing: Conditional Zoning A Motion was made to open the Public
Hearing for the proposed Conditional Zoning Text Amendment by Aldermen Carroll,
which was seconded by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
   Development Services Director Henley gave a presentation and an overview of
the proposed amendment.
Ray Martino; 6065 Sullivan Ridge Rd. Recommended providing better communication
to the public. He said he does not favor Conditional Zoning and feels more
could be done by tightening up the UDO. He questioned how this would benefit
the City. He asked if this was an easier and more convenient way to process
rezoning. Mr. Henley explained that it was not an easier process because there
is a lot more review and overall, more work for staff.
Alderman Alt questioned the difference between CZ and a PUD with a development
agreement. Mr. Henley said effectively that there is no difference. He said the
PUD process is set up like conditional zoning. Ultimately he said the
difference between PUD and CZ is that with CZ, the applicant can ask for things
to be considered, but it does not guarantee anything could be approved.
Alderman Alt clarified that the developer could still apply for a PUD. Mr.
Henley said that was correct.
Karen Rife; 5980 Dutchman Creek Rd. asked for an explanation of the difference
between legislative and administrative decisions. Mr. Henley explained that a
legislative decision is a policy-level decision where the Board is the ultimate
decision maker. Still, along with the Planning Board, they have much more
discretion to ask for things to be considered during a conditional rezoning.
Whereas, in an administrative process, as long as the application checks all
the boxes of the UDO, then it must be approved. She asked if the builder is
approved for CZ and then sells the property and if the new owners want to
change something, they will have to go through the process again to get
approved since the property is now recorded as conditional zoned. Mr. Henley
said that is true. She asked if PUD and CZ are basically the same and will the
PUD process go away. She questions that if CZ is a more reviewed process than
PUD, why would a developer choose to apply?
Mr. Henley said that it would be up to the developer to decide how they want to
apply. From the planning perspective keeping PUD in place would be good so that
it can be referenced in other developments.
Tracy O’Bryant; Cottage Creek Rd, said that she has been following all the
meetings and all of the comments. She said clearly that the public is not in
favor of conditional zoning. She feels it gives too much discretion and power
to the Board. She would like to see the standards be updated and eliminate the
loopholes for the developers. She urged the Board to vote against the amendment
for CZ.
Lora Sharkey; 432 Cades Trail, thanked Director Henley, Mr. MacLeod, and Staff
for presenting the proposed amendment, answering questions, and explaining the
process of CZ. She said that when CZ was first approved in the business
district, she was excited because the city could get specific conditions on
places of concern with development. She favors CZ in the residential district
and says it could be a positive tool for the city to create better outcomes for
the community.
Stephen Carpenter, a resident of Surf City said he has a long-standing
relationship with the community and was a former planner in a nearby county. He
said that CZ allows for flexibility but also could lead to vagueness for the
developer and the staff. He said that this type of zoning is either subjective
or objective, and who will make that decision? His recommendation was not to
permit CZ in residential districts and follow the ordinance as it is.
   Alderman Allen said that the term “vague” has been mentioned. He asked
Director Henley to clarify if that is how the process works for conditional
zoning and to devise the conditions to put them into place beforehand. Director
Henley said the vagueness is intentional, and the conditions are in reference
to what is already required in the UDO and will allow provisions that will be
more suitable for the community but could be denied if the request is not in
agreement. Alderman Allen asked the City Attorney, Mr. Herman, if he could
address the legalities, especially in relation to spot zoning and contract
zoning. Mr. Herman said that contract zoning is usually applied to general
rezoning. He said that with conditional rezoning, some negotiating is involved
depending on the stage of the process. From a policy standpoint, he said that
when the board makes legislative decisions, the courts will typically uphold
those decisions because they won’t interfere with discretion. Alderman
Mosteller asked for clarification on setting precedents from one project to the
next. Director Henley said that he does not see conditional zoning as possible
to be selected as a precedent because of the strict review criteria, and public
input from each request will differ.
Rich Bandera; 409 N. Burrington Ave., has concerns that allowing conditional
zoning in the residential districts could potentially allow for an increase in
density and that staff could possibly make recommendations to the Board for
approval. He said that under the text of the proposed amendment, it has
language that says that during an election season, the Board of Aldermen may
not vote to rezone property beginning on the date of the municipal general
election until after the new board is sworn in. This would not allow an
application for conditional zoning to go forward until after the election. He
said he does not know exactly when the “election season” begins but thinks it
should wait to be decided. He also wanted to address why Sunset Beach and Oak
Island do not island CZ on the islands.
Mr. Macleod said Sunset Beach and Oak Island have a provision that doesn’t
allow applications for CZ on the island in the residential districts because
all the lots are platted, and the acreage threshold is void. Mayor Pro Tem
Mosteller asked if other zoning-related actions need to be addressed during an
election season. Mr. Macleod said that the Board does not have to have that
provision. He said it is common in places like Wilmington that have a lot of
applications, and they do not want that to interfere with their election
provisions. He said it would be up to the Board to decide if they wanted to use
this provision.
Ginny Prunty; 5906 Dutchman Creek Rd. submitted a comment that was read by the
Deputy Clerk. She would like to see the Comprehensive Land Use Plan and zoning
maps updated before considering CZ. She said she would like the Board to
reexamine zoning project priorities and vote no on the amendment.
Shirley Sullivan, a resident of Indigo Plantation, submitted a comment that was
read. She has concerns about the push for conditional zoning in residential
districts as it is being presented. She said the CAMA Core Land Use Plan and
Comprehensive Plan should be reviewed and updated for current statistics and
demographics before adding a flexible land tool. She would like the Board to
acknowledge the cons.
Jim Lightbourne, 316 W. West St., submitted a comment that was read. His
remarks focused on the contentious concern that CZ has the flexibility to
increase the number of residential dwellings on a property compared to what is
currently being allowed. He agreed with others to revise the Comprehensive
Plan, which may lead to more updates in the UDO, and then revisit the option
for CZ.
   Since there were no further comments or questions, a Motion was made to
close the Public Hearing for the proposed Conditional Zoning Amendment and the
motion was seconded by Alderman Carroll. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
   2.   Annexation Public Hearing and Decision: 6240 and 6245 Lookout Point
   A Motion was made by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller to Open the Public Hearing and
it was seconded by Alderman Carroll. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried. Director
Henley gave an overview of the request for annexation. There were no comments
or questions. A Motion was made to close the Public Hearing by Mayor Pro Tem
Mosteller and second by Alderman Carroll. Unanimous vote; Motion Carried.
   Alderman Allen made a Motion to approve the annexation request as presented
for the two lots identified as 6240 and 6245 Lookout Point and second by Mayor
Pro Tem Mosteller. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
   3.    Maritime Museum Concession Agreement
   Mr. Wayne Berry, treasurer of the Friends of the Maritime Museum, gave an
overview of the agreement that has been modified slightly since the last
agreement. The current agreement is set to expire on May 31, 2024. Alderman Alt
asked if the City Attorney had reviewed the document. Attorney Herman said it
had been reviewed and saw no problems. Parks and Rec. Director Hemphill came to
the podium and commented that the standard agreement had worked well for the
past ten years. Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller made a Motion to approve the Concession
Agreement that starts June 1, 2024, through May 31, 2034, and the motion was
seconded by Alderman Carroll. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
   Break: 8:11-8:19 pm
   4.    WK Dickson Contract Amendment
   City Engineer Mr. Zilinek is requesting authorization for the next phase of
WK Dickson’s sewer project. He said the first phase was for a survey and an
analysis of six lift stations has been completed. There is a recommendation
that three of them need improvement. They will require approval to amend this
contract for the additional work. It is all funded with the DEQ grant. Alderman
Allen asked which three stations need improvement. Mr. Zilinek said Park Ave,
Ninth Street, and Moore St. Alderman Alt confirmed that other repairs would
also be done along with these improvements. He questioned why it would take
three years to be completed. Mr. Zilinek said that, most likely, it would not
take this long. He explained that the 2026 date was chosen because that is the
deadline for the improvements that need to be completed for the Grant. He said
the equipment also has long lead times, and the order must be placed in
advance. A contractor will need to be awarded for the project as well.
   Alderman Allen made a Motion to approve the contract amendment for WK
Dickson for sewer line and lift station repairs and improvements, which
Alderman Carroll seconded. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
   5.    Financial Policies: 
      A. Policy on Taxes on Split Jurisdiction Properties: Mr. Gross, Interim
Finance Director, went over the water and sewer rates on split parcels of land.
He explained that approximately thirty parcels of land in the city limits are
split with the ETJ. Sixteen of these parcels have been developed. He said there
is no policy on processing these sixteen homes for billing purposes. He
explained that some parcels are paying 40% inside city rate and 60% outside
rate. There are four that are only paying the outside city rate. After
consulting with the city attorney, it was decided that there needs to be a
policy on defining who is getting the lower rate versus the higher rate. A
Motion was made to adopt the Taxes on Split Properties policy by Alderman
Carroll and was seconded by Alderman Lombardi. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
      B. Powell Bill Policy: Mr. Gross continued with a proposed Powell Bill
policy and said it was written 99% verbatim off the Powell Bill Website. Some
additions include what are the responsibilities of the staff in Southport. He
said the policy would be very specific on how the Powell bill money can be
used. It also provides a deadline for the Development Services Department to
meet. Also, for the Finance Department to meet expenditure report deadlines.
Alderman Carroll made a Motion to approve the Powell Bill Policy, which was
seconded by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
   6.   Wilmington Metro Planning vs. Cape Fear vs. Grand Strand:
   Director Henley gave a presentation on the transportation planning in NC and
explained the pros and cons of each organization. The City is currently a part
of the Rural Planning Organization (RPO). Alderman Allen asked what the
connection is between these types of Planning Organizations and in NCDOT. Mr.
Henley said that they work together and are effectively the same. Alderman
Allen clarifies that they are funded by the members and not NCDOT. Mr. Henley
said there is some funding from the NCDOT. He said the MPOs receive some
federal funding, but he does not think RPOs receive that funding. Alderman Alt
said that he just recently learned all about these types of organizations that
offer conferences to elected officials. He would be interested in having each
of them come and provide more information at a Board Workshop. It was the
consensus of the Board to invite all three transportation planning
organizations to a Board Workshop to gather more information. Alderman Allen
made a Motion to gather more information from each organization at a Board
Workshop and it was seconded by Alderman Alt.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.  
   7.    Noise Ordinance: 
   Director Henley reviewed the proposed amendments, including the specifics to
which these regulations apply. It stated that any noise clearly audible at a
distance of 500 feet from the property line of the property or location
originating the sound is prohibited. Following feedback from the Board at their
June 8, 2023 meeting, an additional subsection was added to address refuse
pickup operations, with the language providing for noise generated by refuse
pickup operations permissible after 6:00 am. Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller made a
Motion to approve the Noise Ordinance Amendment as presented and the motion was
seconded by Alderman Lombardi. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
   8.    Right of Ways: 
   Director Henley gave a presentation on the options regarding enforcement of
right of ways. Staff requests that the Board identify its preferred directions
before beginning the public input process. He went over some options, including
allowable encroachments and grandfathering of existing encroachments. The
descriptions of these encroachments were presented in the agenda packet and on
the PowerPoint presentation.
   Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller made a statement as follows verbatim:
   “Thank you to Staff for bringing this conversation forward.”
   “I am grateful for our Planning Staff, their depth of expertise and
professionalism, and their commitment to our community. In part, the decisions
we make regarding our right of ways will determine how recognizable Southport
will remain going forward.
   On the home page, our city website says, “Welcome to Southport, Home of the
salubrious breezes.”
   In 1792, Joshua Potts platted our city with these 99 feet of road rights-of-
ways. What we know for sure is Mr. Potts laid the roads out perpendicular to
the river. It’s evident when you look at a map, our roads follow the curve of
the river. That’s why Atlantic Avenue and Howe Street are not parallel.
   From this, it seems plausible that since Mr. Potts believed the salubrious
breezes restored his failing health and saved his life, he may have platted our
99 feet rights-of-way to maximize the salubrious breezes for everyone.
   The openness created by these original 99 feet rights-of-way is unique and
very much a part of the design of our city’s old town area. These wide rights
of way were purposely platted and are an important historical reference. As a
community, we have taken steps to protect our historic character. The recent
creation of the Historic Preservation Commission is tangible evidence of our
community’s commitment to our past and our future. It is important to take
action that is consistent with our values and goals. These rights-of-way belong
to all the citizens of Southport and must be maintained.
   Drip by drip, the stone is washed away. The loss of these wide rights-of-way
would fundamentally change what we look like, and over time part of our
historic character will be lost.”
   There was a discussion on the options. Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller Motioned that
based on the Staff’s request for direction regarding clarification of the
right-of-way ordinance, to consider the following ordinance updates 16-8.
Option 1 and 16-10. Option 1 and the accompanying Appendix A: Right-of-Way.
Alderman Carroll seconded the motion.
   Unanimous Vote; Motion carried. 
   Additionally, Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller asked that staff continue the strict
pro-active enforcement of the existing ordinance that prohibits anything to be
placed within the rights-of-way beyond the horizontal plane.
   9.   Request for Public Hearing: Zoning Text Amendment Section 3.19 Sign
Illumination:  
   Director Henley gave an overview of the proposed amendment. Mayor Pro Tem
Mosteller made a Motion to set August 10th as the Public Hearing date and
seconded by Alderman Carroll. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
   10.   Request for Public Hearing: Zoning Map Amendment: MF to R-10. 
   Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller made a Motion to set the Public Hearing Date for
August 10th, seconded by Alderman Carroll. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
   11.   Recommendation and Appointment of Board of Adjustment Members:  
   Alderman Lombardi made a Motion to recommend reappointment for Josh McGee,
Pete Haislip, and Tuck Masker as members of the Board of Adjustment and it was
seconded by Alderman Carroll. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
Committee Reports
   Alderman Davis said a Forestry Committee Member would be awarded a Tree
Champion Certificate and encouraged the public to the next meeting to find out
more.
   Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller reminded everyone about the next Planning Board
Meeting on August 17th.
   Mayor Hatem announced that the ABC Board met, and their store received more
gross revenue than any other store in the area.
Manager’s Report
   Ms. Dutton gave an update on bids going out for several projects. Finance
Department is working hard to provide information to the auditors to stay
ahead. She thanked the staff for their hard work.
Board Comments
   Aldermen Allen, Carroll, Alt, and Davis thanked everyone for attending and
viewing the meeting.
   Alderman Lombardi announced that the Beautification Committee would not
schedule a clean-up for July and August. However, they will finish the
waterfront staining on July 15th.
   “We are getting ready to go into an election cycle. Please do not believe
everything you read or hear. For example, last week, there was a letter to the
editor in the paper with inaccurate information. Titled ‘It’s about trust’, the
letter stated that this board had sold the 400 acres without an appraisal, in a
private sale. Per the requirements of state statute, we discuss potential
contracts in closed session, however, to be clear, final action to sell city
property must be conducted in a public meeting. The 441 acres have not and will
not be sold without notice and being discussed in a public meeting.
   With regard to Short Street, in 2020, the City Manager stated that the
reversal of Short Street’s one-way traffic pattern had improved the safety for
pedestrians, bicyclists, and other non- motorists. Chief Coring agreed and
noted the importance of additional public awareness of the change.
   Regarding the Conditional Zoning comments, Oakton is not a PUD. Oakton is a
By Right R-10 subdivision which by law, unlike the Conditional Zoning process,
did not give this Board the authority to require changes to accommodate the
concerns voiced by neighboring citizens.
   Lastly, rest assured that every Board member sitting at this table values
the collaboration with staff. The new budget demonstrates our commitment and
recognition of the value of our professional City Staff. Please gather the
facts for yourself. And if you have questions or concerns about Board actions
or processes or decisions, please give me a call. All of the Board members
phone numbers can be found on the city website.
   Also, I have a couple of experiences that I would like to share.
   In the past few months, we have been building an accessory structure in the
backyard of our house. In other places I have lived, people always talk about
how hard it is to work with building permitting offices and inspectors. I am so
very proud of living in a community where our Planning and Inspections
Department is so professional, and staff is committed to the welfare and safety
of the public. Throughout the building process, our interactions with Tori
Deviney, the City Permitting administrator, and Kiley Barefoot, the City’s
building inspector, were first rate. Both Tori and Kiley took time to make sure
we understood every step of the process. Admittedly, no one likes to be told no
when they are trying to get their C.O. including me, however, not only was it
code, Kiley helped me understand the value of installing the vents that had
been overlooked. It is with gratitude that I recognize Tori and Kiley for their
service to our community.
   And finally, I would like to recognize Officer Kelly Garrido. A couple of
weeks ago I took my 16 ½ year old dog to Unleashed for a bath. Afterwards, I
put him in the car and turned around to see Mike Isenberg with his dog coming
out of the groomers…so we chatted, and then I tried to get into the car. Socks,
my old schnauzer mix had stepped on the interior lock and locked me out of the
car and of course my keys were in the car. We couldn’t find my spare key at
home so I called the Police Department to see if they had a tool that could
help. That’s when Officer Garrido saved the day. Within minutes of arriving,
Officer Garrido had the door unlocked and Socks was on his way home.
   So, Socks and I offer a ‘special thank you’ to Officer Garrido for her help.
And I share this as a small reminder of how grateful I am to live in this
community. “
   Mayor Hatem thanked the staff for their hard work and everyone for their
attendance and participation.
   Alderman Carroll made a Motion to adjourn and was seconded by Mayor Pro Tem
Mosteller.
   Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
      The meeting was adjourned at 9:28 p.m.
   __________________________________            
_______________________________
    Joseph P. Hatem, M.D., M.P.H.                  Tanya Shannon, Deputy Clerk
    Mayor, City of Southport
AUGUST 4, 2023
AGENDA REVIEW MEETING MINUTES
BOARD OF ALDERMEN
AGENDA REVIEW MEETING MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING
AUGUST 4, 2023
PRESENT:
Mayor Hatem, Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller, Aldermen Allen, Carroll, Davis, and
Lombardi
ABSENT:
Alderman Alt
STAFF PRESENT:
Bonnie Therrien, City Manager   
Dorothy Dutton, Assistant City Manager/City Clerk
Travis Henley, Development Services Director   
Randy Jones, Community Relations Director
Sydney Heil, Community Building Administrator   
Heather Hemphill, Parks and Recreation Director
Police Major Tony Burke   Police Chief Todd Coring
Ellie Pittenger, Electrical Superintendent   
Tom Stanley, Public Services Director
Paul Gross, Interim Finance Director
OTHERS PRESENT:
Tish Hatem, City Resident   
Pat Kirkman, City Resident
Bob Liepa, Reporter with the State Port Pilot   
Carlo Montagano, Habitat for Humanity
Sally Learned, Brunswick Partnership for Housing   
Mike Kozlosky, WMPO
Sam Boswell, RPO   
Mark Beauchamp
Rick Vander
Call to Order
Mayor Hatem called the meeting to order at 9:03 a.m. He said that it was a
robust agenda and thanked all those in attendance or watching from home.
Invocation
Alderman Lowe Davis provided the invocation.
Pledge of Allegiance
Mayor Hatem led everyone in reciting the Pledge of Allegiance.
Approval of Agenda
Mayor Hatem explained that he wished to hold a separate town hall meeting for
the discussion about the homeless population. There are so many factors
involved. Some of the items are to be re-ordered on the agenda, so that some of
the presenters can leave.
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller made a motion to approve the agenda as presented.
Alderman Lombardi seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.
Agenda
Carlo Montagano, with Habitat for Humanity addressed the Board and public to
explain that Habitat for Humanity is a non-profit, a licensed construction
company, a mortgage lender and a retailer. Most of the people that they serve
are between 30-70% median income. They are working class people, but banks
won’s loan them money. Their mission is to build homes, communities, and hope.
They were able to build six homes last year. They are on track to build eight
homes this year. Coastal communities are always harder for them to build in
because of the cost of property. Habitat for Humanity is trending away from
single-family dwellings and considering townhomes. Mr. Montagano explained
there are lots of ways local governments can help them accomplish their
mission. The Cape Fear Housing Coalition can use more Brunswick County
representation. Some municipalities reimburse permitting fees once the
Certificate of Occupancy has been issued. Other municipalities waive System
Development Fees or donate land. Still others invest in infrastructure where
Habitat is likely to build. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller asked if Habitat had
considered rental units, and Mr. Montagano said that there has been some talk
about it but haven’t made a way forward yet.
The Homeless Population topic was moved up to be the next item. City Manager
Therrien explained that she and Chief Coring had been in discussions over the
last three weeks. There seems to be approximately five individuals in Southport
that are homeless. She reminded the public that instead of calling City Hall,
if they see anything troubling, they should call 911. Ms. Therrien invited Ms.
Sally Learned to speak to the Board. She is the Executive Director for the
Brunswick County Partnership for Housing. She said that homelessness was not
just a Southport problem, or a Brunswick County problem. Affordable Housing is
almost impossible to find anywhere in the state. The Brunswick County
Partnership for Housing has coordinated with several hotels in the area for
qualifying people to stay for the night. She said they recognize they are
helping people with a wide spectrum of needs. Some individuals need mental
health services. She encouraged the public to get involved; they always need
volunteers and financial assistance. Police Major Burke addressed the Board to
say that there are so many factors in each case including the person’s history.
But arresting these people and putting them into the Criminal Justice System
only compounds the issues. The more homelessness is criminalized, the more
isolated and dangerous people can be. Major Burke also encouraged people to
call 911.
Mike Kozlosky, the Executive Director from the Wilmington Metropolitan Planning
Organization addressed the public and the Board. He said that the WMPO is being
very deliberate about considering expanding their participating area. The WMPO
is considering both northern expansion and southern expansion. They were
established in 1978 and serve approximately 300, 000 people. There are twelve
staff members that work on either the Planning or Technical Review side. A lone
range transportation plan is required at least every (5) years and sets the
stage for prioritization of funding. He reviewed some of their projects that
have been successful.
Sam Boswell, the Director of the Cape Fear Rural Planning Organization spoke to
the Board next to describe the organization. He said there are (18) RPO’s
across the state. The CFRPO was formed in 2001. One of their larger projects is
the Comprehensive Transportation Plan, which plans out 30-35 years. Mayor Pro-
tem Mosteller asked if it was correct that Division 3 of NCDOT was receiving
$10 million dollars. Mr. Boswell confirmed and added that there was a lot of
planning with small dollars. The Southport project to build a sidewalk from the
hospital down to the ABC store was in their plans. For the RPO, funding is
split between six counties. There was discussion about who served on the RPO
Board. Mr. Travis Henley added that if a project is not part of an adopted
plan, it is not worth submitting for funding, because it doesn’t really
compete.
Mark Beauchamp and Rick Vander Maas were contracted by the City to complete an
Electric Rate Study. Mr. Beauchamp explained that the City is a very stable
utility. But it seems that the City is giving too much value for the load
management devices, particularly residential load management. It is hard to
predict five years out for electrical rates and infrastructure. The City’s
electrical department doesn’t have any debt and is very fiscally strong.
Without adjusting rates, and based on predicted population change, we have a
higher target operating income. The consultants recommend decreasing rates by
2% or keep them the same. Mayor Pro- tem Mosteller mentioned that we are trying
to transition everything underground, so she thinks that maintaining the rates
will allow the City to do that more easily. Alderman Carroll said he agreed,
but he would like more information about the load management device reductions.
Everyone’s benefit is the same, but we are valuing the benefit differently for
residential and commercial customers. Alderman Allen asked if the incentives
were lowered, would there be any benefit to participate? Mr. Beauchamp said
that he believes the program is important, but some changes should be
considered. Ms. Therrien asked if the City’s electric rates were too high? Mr.
Beauchamp said that from a national perspective, our rates are reasonable.
Alderman Davis read through the existing political sign ordinance and asked if
the Board was happy with the existing language. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller
explained that she liked the ordinance the way it is.
The Board discussed the agenda for the Regular August 10th Board meeting. Mayor
Pro-tem Mosteller asked to add the cemetery ordinance to the agenda, under
Consent agenda. The City Manager read through the list of items on the Consent
agenda. The Homeless Discussion was being removed and a separate meeting would
be scheduled. Alderman Carroll thanked staff particularly for the Bay Street
repair review and plans. He added that City staff is great, and the City is
very fortunate.
F.)
Mayor Hatem thanked City staff and all those in attendance.
Alderman Allen made a motion to adjourn the meeting, which was seconded by the
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller. All ayes. Motion carried. 
Mayor Hatem adjourned the meeting at 11:36 a.m.
               
                     ______________________________________
                     Joseph P. Hatem, M.D., M.P.H.
                     Mayor, City of Southport
________________________________________
Dorothy Dutton
Assistant City Manager/City Clerk
AUGUST 10, 2023
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
Board of Aldermen
Regular Meeting Minutes
Community Building 223 E. Bay Street
August 10, 2023
6:00 P.M.
Present:
Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor Pro Tem Karen
Mosteller, Alderman
Rich Alt, Lowe Davis, Robert Carroll, and John Allen.
Absent:
   Alderman Tom Lombardi
Staff Present:
   Bonnie Therrien, City Manager
   Dorothy Dutton, Assistant City Manager/ City Clerk
   Todd Coring, Police Chief
   Charles Drew, Fire Chief
   Heather Hemphill, Parks & Rec. Director
   Tom Stanley, Public Services Director
   Tom Zilinek, City Engineer
   Randy Jones, Community Relations Director
   ChyAnn Ketchum, Community Relations/PIO
   Sydney Heil, Community Building Administrator
   Paul Gross, Interim Finance Director
   Mo Meehan, City Planner
   Travis Henley, Development Services Director
Mayor Joseph P. Hatem called the meeting to order at 6:02 P.M. and welcomed
everyone. He announced that Alderman Lombardi was recovering from knee surgery
and was doing well.
The Invocation was given by Reverend Taylor Mills from Trinity Unity Methodist
Church.
The Pledge of Allegiance was led by Mayor Hatem.
D)   Public Comment :
   1.   
   Kathy Cabral, 308 W. West St., had concerns about the itinerants and
vagrants in the City. She said there needs to be more enforcement and better
procedures for handling this matter. She believes that the ordinance needs to
be updated to address these situations. She also had concerns about the water
quality and infrastructure of the city.
   2.
   Susan Delaney, 304 W. West St., feels like the Elected Officials have a
vendetta against citizens who use their own money and time to spruce up the
right-of-way. She feels parking in the right-of-way has created a mess, and the
citizens have cleaned it up with plants and flowers for a better appeal.
   3.
   John Delaney, 304. West St. also had concerns about the right-of-way and how
the issue should be addressed. He feels that if it is a safety issue, then
immediate actions should be taken. He said that if the residents have been
maintaining the right-of-ways and it has existed for long periods of time, they
should be allowed to keep it as is and replant if a necessary removal occurs.
   4.
   Linda Pukenas, 119 N. Lord St., agreed that the city needs to access areas
of the right-of-way when needed for repair, but she does not agree with not
letting the area be returned to what it was if it has to be dug up. Also, she
recommended that the parks be closed from dusk to dawn to prevent the vagrants
from camping out. She sympathizes with people experiencing homelessness, but
there are safety concerns regarding the potential for violence and disturbing
behavior.
   5.
    Kim Cobb, 107 N. Lord Street, recommended closing Keziah Park due to the
vagrants taking over. She worries about her nearby property and the safety of
her family. She implored the Board and the Police Department to help remedy the
situation before it worsens. She recommends a community watch program with an
officer and a background check on the vagrants.
   6.
   Roberta Dosher, 210 W. Moore St., said she does not feel safe being home
alone anymore. She is worried about all the vagrants that are sleeping in the
parks and their vehicles. She does not feel comfortable being home alone. She
said resources are available for them and that they should be directed to these
locations.
   7.
   Cheryl Daniel, 120 W. Bay St., is with the “Friends of Franklin,” an
established group interested in preserving Franklin Square Park. She said it is
one of the most beautiful parks with historic live oaks. She said the park is
in decline and needs more protection. She would like to see the park become a
Sanctuary.
   8.
   Jeanne Potter, 315 Burrington Ave., also with the “Friends of Franklin,”
said the park was donated over 200 years ago and needed to be maintained and
preserved effectively. She said the park could be returned to a beautiful,
healthy space for future generations with thoughtful planning and budgeting.
   9.
   Francesa Slaughter, 6272 Cattail, does not favor the proposed Conditional
Zoning Amendment. She discussed how this could change the look and feel of
Southport forever.
   10.
   Bob Holben is opposed to the right-of-way ordinance. He has concerns about
some of the language proposed, such as “until the time the city desires to
remove it.” He said the word “desire” should be more for standards. He would
like to see the city be a good neighbor and allow the citizens to return
anything that must be removed.
   11.
   Shirley Sullivan, 5002 Seaward Crt. is concerned with the proposed
Conditional Zoning Amendment. She said there are still many unanswered
questions. She encouraged the Board to deny the proposed amendment.
   12.
   Karen Rife 5980 Dutchman Creek Rd. Questioned the need for Conditional
Zoning. She needs to understand why developers would want this when they can
already get what they want through traditional rezoning and avoid going through
the multiple meetings process.
   13.
    Eric Lappala, 215 W. Moore St., said the board must address the yacht
basin's parking issues. He said residential properties surround this area, and
since it is at the end of the tourist season, it is time to move forward with
the parking overlay district plan.
   14.
   Lois Gandy, 5961 Spikerush Trail, would like to know how much buildable land
is left in the city. She urged the board to listen to the citizens concerned
about the proposed Conditional Zoning amendment and vote to deny it.
   15.
   Jim Gandy, 5961 Spikerush Trail, is not in favor of Conditional Zoning and
said that this would cause more harm to the environment by potentially allowing
more housing units.
   16.
   Ms. Dutton read a statement submitted by Dr. Karen Beardslee Kwansy and her
Family. They urged the Board to deny the Conditional Zoning Text Amendment and
dedicate the time to update the UDO. They encouraged the protection of the
city’s infrastructure and fragile ecosystem.
E)   Approval of the Agenda
   Alderman Davis made a Motion to remove item 2 from the agenda: ‘Discussion
and Board Vote on the Conditional Zoning Text Amendment’ and seconded by
Alderman Alt. Before a call for a Board Vote on the Motion, the Board debated
whether the item should be removed. Alderman Davis said she would like the item
removed because the public has consistently requested denial of the amendment,
and there is no rush. She would like to see the Comprehensive Plan updated
first. Alderman Alt agreed and said there is no development tied to this type
of zoning, and discussion should wait until after the Comprehensive Plan has
been updated. Alderman Carroll noted that the Board should at least discuss the
issue. Alderman Mosteller said that the Planning Board had spent a lot of time
reviewing Conditional Zoning, and not discussing it would be counterintuitive.
Alderman Allen was not in favor of removing the item from the agenda. He said a
decision would have to be made eventually. Mayor Hatem asked if there was any
further discussion from the Board. Since there was not, he asked for
reclarification of the Motion. Alderman Davis amended the Motion to remove the
Discussion and Board Vote on Conditional Zoning from the agenda until
potentially after the updated Comprehensive Plan has been reviewed, which was
seconded by Alderman Alt. Aye: Alderman Davis and Alderman Alt. Nay: Alderman
Carroll, Alderman Allen, and Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller. Motion Denied (2-3)
   Mayor Hatem requested to amend the agenda to include a Proclamation in
recognition of the Coast Guard. Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller made a Motion to amend
the agenda, seconded by Alderman Carroll. Unanimous Vote, Motion Carried.
The Ethics Statement was read by Mayor Hatem.
“If any members know of any conflict of interest or the appearance of a
conflict of interest concerning matters on the agenda, please so state at this
time.”
F)    Approval of the Consent Agenda
   1. Budget Amendment #1 (Reimbursement for Street Lights)
   2. Minutes of the Board of Aldermen Agenda Review and Workshop July 7, 2023
   3. Minutes of the Board of Aldermen Special Public Meeting June 28, 2023
   4. Minutes of the Regular Board of Aldermen Meeting July 13, 2023
   5. Code of Ordinance Amendment to Chapter 2: Boards and Committees: Cemetery
Committee      
Alderman Davis made a Motion to approve the Consent Agenda seconded by Alderman
Alt. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried. 
G)   Special Recognition 
   1.
   Forestry Committee Chairman Scott Len presented Alison Scouler with the Tree
Champion Award for her outstanding service.
   2.
   Mayor Hatem presented a Proclamation to the Coast Guard in honor of their
Service.        
H)   Public Hearings
   A motion was made by Alderman Mosteller to open the Public Hearings and
seconded by Alderman Carroll.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
   1. Public Hearing Text Amendment-Signage and Illumination.
   City Planner Meehan gave an overview of the proposed Amendment. She said the
applicant requested the following considerations to this Zoning Text Amendment
to provide for modifications to the City’s adopted sign regulations. The
request includes one of two (2) options: (1) Adding an OR where currently there
is an AND in Section 3.19.H.1.c
   (2) Add an additional section to the ordinance that specifically allows
backlit and halo lighting that meets all requirements of the UDO. After
consideration, the Planning Board voted to recommend adding an additional
section to the UDO. ‘Backlit and halo lighting that otherwise meet the
provisions of Section 3.19 of this ordinance are allowed.’
   There was a discussion on the types of lighting that are allowed under the
UDO. Planner Meehan said that currently, under the UDO, backlit signs and
internal lighting signs that are under 3,000 degrees Kelvin are allowed.
Alderman Alt questioned the signs that are currently in violation of the
lighting standards. Ms. Meehan said that most of those signs on Howe Street are
internally lit, which is currently allowed if under the 3,000-degree kelvin
standard. Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller noted that some were grandfathered into the
UDO before the sign ordinance was revised. She said that the Planning Board is
currently reviewing for updates on the sign ordinance.
   Public Comment:
   Mr. Bob Holben came to the podium and said he is not opposed to the Haven
halo sign. He asked for an explanation of the 3,000-degree Kelvin standard.
Mayor Pro Tem explained that it was not the temperature but the color of the
light, which was warm white.
   There were no further questions or comments. Mayor Hatem asked for a Motion
to close the Public Hearing. Alderman Carroll made a Motion to close the Public
Hearing, seconded by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
   2. Public Hearing: Map Amendment Rezoning 605 W. Brown Street. 
   Alderman Carroll made a Motion to open the Public Hearing, seconded by
Alderman Allen. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
   Ms. Meehan gave an overview of the proposed amendment. She said the proposal
is a request to change a parcel of land from a Multi-Family District (MF) to a
Residential District (R-10). Both districts are residential and permit most of
the same uses. The difference is that there is an exception for nonconforming
lots of records located in the R-10 district, which grants rear and side yard
setback reductions proportionate to the size of the lot. She said that the
Planning Board did a review and recommended approval. Alderman Carroll asked
what the setbacks would be. Ms. Meehan said that with the allowed reduction, it
would become 25 ft front yard, 8 ft rear yard, and 4 ft for each side yard.
Public Comment: None
   A Motion to close the Public Hearing was made by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller and
seconded by Alderman Caroll. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
I)   Presentation and Update by Up Your Arts:
   Ms. Bonnie Bray and Mr. Bob Gentile gave an update on the proposed
reconstruction of the building. While funding for the $3.5 million
reconstruction will be secured and managed by the future Art Center board of
directors, Up Your Arts will fund the remaining two-thirds of the total
architectural services needed for design development and construction drawings
to fulfill the terms of the third MOU with the City of Southport. He said that
as we move forward, Up Your Arts is committed to transparency and
accountability in our partnership with the City of Southport and the various
community partners. The offers of support they have received, both financially
and pro bono, in a hands-on activity, point to a very successful project
outcome. The Board agreed that it was a great asset to the Community and will
bring many benefits to the City. The Board of Aldermen will be meeting with the
new Up Your Arts Board to go into further review. The Board thanked all the
members of the organization for their time and commitment.
J)    Agenda
   1.   W K Dickson Sewer Update Presentation and Contract Amendment:
   Mr. Carter Hubbard, with W K Dickson gave a presentation on the sewer
project updates, process, and timeline. He said the Lift Station Rehabilitation
includes Draw Down Testing Hydraulic Modeling Prioritized Needs Conceptual
Layout Design and Permitting. He said his Lift Station Recommendations are to
prioritize rehabilitation for 9th Street, Moore St, and Park Ave. Also, to
increase capacity by upgrading Park Ave Lift Station with a new Force Main to
Sandy Lane and Inflow and Infiltration Study. There should be adequate public
notice. Find It Fix It: Engineering Report based on I/I Study, Construction
Documents, and Construction. Mr. Hubard said he hopes to be under contract and
begin work as early as September 2023. City Manager Therrien requested the
Board to modify the contract to include the I &I Study. She said that there
would be lots of public notice. She recommended approval.
   Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller made a Motion to approve the contract with the
inclusion of the Inflow and Infiltration Study and to authorize Mayor Hatem to
execute the contract, seconded by Alderman Davis. Unanimous Vote; Motion
Carried. 
   2.   Discussion and Board Vote: Conditional Zoning Text Amendment.
   Mayor Hatem stated that there would not be a vote at the meeting. There will
be a discussion, and the Board could determine how to proceed with the proposed
amendment.
         Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller’s comments:” In our Comprehensive Plan under
F. Plan for the Future, it states that the City of Southport must continuously
work at accomplishing plan implementation and maintaining an effective planning
program. And changes to Southport’s management of growth should occur.
          In contemporary planning, the most discussed concept is “smart
development.” In reality, this concept is not a new idea. It is simply the
blending of many existing ideas.
         Smart development supports the preservation of land and natural
resources. These benefits result from compact building forms, in-fill
development, and moderation in street and parking standards.
         Compact building patterns preserve land for city and neighborhood
parks as well as local woods and wetlands. Furthermore, compact development
shortens trips, lessening dependence on the automobile and therefore reducing
levels of energy consumption and air pollution.
         Finally, a compact development pattern supports more cost-effective
and efficient infrastructure.
         Our Comprehensive plan goes on to say inflexible standards,
regulations, and processes will discourage innovative approaches to development
and design.
         Again, the implementation of Smart Development practices is not new.
Our old town’s historic area, with our smaller lots, smaller setbacks, front
porches, and sidewalks that encourage neighborly interactions that build
community, is an organic example of many of the goals of smart growth planning.
Without updating the Conditional Zoning process, our current zoning does not
allow a residential builder the possibility to propose a project that is more
consistent with our character that could recreate modern streetscapes similar
to N. Atlantic or Caswell Avenues, with the diversity of housing…Big and Small.
         On the UDO page of the city website, it states that the City of
Southport Unified Development Ordinance Update was adopted in 2020. And among
other changes, the update includes, and I quote, “the inclusion of a
Conditional Zoning procedure to aid in consensus-built and public-supported
development outcomes.”
         Without this text amendment update, we do not have a potentially
collaborative upfront community input residential zoning process.
         That’s why I think it’s a mistake to kick the can down the road
linking the proposed Conditional Zoning text amendment update to the future
Comprehensive Plan project that could take as much as 2 years to complete.
         I support the staff’s recommendation to adopt this text amendment with
some minor changes.
         Out of respect for the work of the Planning Board, I make a motion to
send the proposed text amendment back to the Planning Board for review and
consideration of the following changes regarding the initial process steps,
consistent with the School of Government summary of Conditional Zoning
Procedure with a slight addition.
         Instead of optional, make a Pre-Application Conference with staff the
mandatory first step. This will allow staff to answer the applicants’ questions
prior to submitting the application and make suggestions to help facilitate the
Public Input meeting. Then the second step, prior to the submittal of the
application, would be the Public Input meeting. Having the Public Input meeting
before the Master Development Plan is officially submitted could make the
process more collaborative.
         Including the results of the Public Input meeting as part of the
initial application would allow upfront consideration of the Public Input,
allowing the applicant the opportunity to respond and incorporate community
input into the required Master Development plan before the application is
submitted.
         And gives our Planning Staff, from the beginning, the ability to
review the public input along with the submittal to understand how the public
input was taken into consideration in the proposed project. And then for staff
to do a technical review as part of the preparation for the public hearing and
Planning Board review”.
   The Board had much discussion on how Conditional Zoning would be different
from traditional zoning. Explanations were given on the benefits of CZ and the
ability to involve more public input and encourage the developers to engage
with the citizens to create a desirable development that would work best for
them and the community. It was clarified that the Board would always be able to
deny the project if it did not meet the conditions that the city would like to
see. It was said that traditional zoning and PUDs have a by-right approval if
the requirements from the UDO are met. However, Conditional Zoning can be
denied if the project does not meet the standards requested by the City.
Aldermen Alt and Davis, along with citizens from the public, would not like to
see the amendment approved at this time and do not see the benefits of CZ
currently.
   Mayor Hatem asked for clarification on the Motion from Mayor Pro Tem
Mosteller.
   A Motion was made by Alderman Mosteller to send the proposed text amendment
back to the Planning Board for review and consideration of the following
changes regarding the initial process steps, consistent with the School of
Government summary of Conditional Zoning Procedure with these slight additions:
      Instead of optional, make a Pre-Application Conference with staff the
mandatory first step. This will allow staff to answer the applicants’ questions
prior to submitting the application and make suggestions to help facilitate the
Public Input meeting. Then the second step, prior to the submittal of the
application, would be the Public Input meeting. Having the Public Input meeting
before the Master Development Plan is officially submitted could make the
process more collaborative.
   Including the results of the Public Input meeting as part of the initial
application would allow upfront consideration of the Public Input, allowing the
applicant the opportunity to respond and incorporate community input into the
required Master Development plan before the application is submitted.
         And gives the Planning Staff, from the beginning, the ability to
review the public input along with the submittal to understand how the public
input was taken into consideration in the proposed project. And then for staff
to do a technical review as part of the preparation for the public hearing and
Planning Board review. Alderman Allen seconded the Motion. Ayes: Mayor Pro Tem
Mosteller, Alderman Allen, and Alderman Carroll. Nays: Alderman Alt and
Alderman Davis. Motion Carried (3-2 )
   3.   Call for Public Hearing for Short-Term Vacation Rental Ordinance: 
   Mayor Hatem explained that registering short-term rentals is no longer
required, and the Amendment to the Ordinance will reflect this change. Director
Henley said that the Board would need to set a date for the public hearing for
the text amendment to remove the reference to the annual registration. He said
this would not change other enforcements but remove the outdated language from
the ordinance that is no longer being enforced.
   Mayor Hatem requested a Motion to set the Public Hearing for September 14,
2023. A Motion was made to set the Public Hearing for September 14, 2023, by
Alderman Carroll, seconded by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller. Unanimous Vote; Motion
Carried.
   4.   Finance Policy: Internal Controls: 
   City Manager Therrien said every community should have an internal control
policy. She said it safeguards the assets and prevents fraud, waste, and abuse.
She is surprised the previous auditor didn’t bring it up, but the new auditor
has. She said it controls electronic banking, petty cash, and accounting
controls. She said it was important that the person counting the money should
not also be taking the cash to the bank. The internal control policy will
safeguard against fraud and abuse.
   Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller made a Motion to adopt the Finance Policy for
Internal Controls, seconded by Alderman Alt. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
   5.   ABC Appointment:
   Mayor Hatem stated that Ms. Angela Wadsworth, Ph.D., who has served on the
Board for three years, reapplied for the position when her term expired. She
was interviewed and asked questions appropriated previously by other
applicants. There were no other applicants for the position. Board Chair Mr.
Davis recommended her appointment.
   Alderman Davis made a Motion to reappoint Ms. Wadsworth to the ABC Board,
seconded by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
   6.   Stabilization of W. Bay Street:  
   Alderman Carroll had forwarded the attention of the matter to the Board, and
Mayor Hatem submitted a letter to notify the City Manager that the roads and
sidewalks in this area needed repair. Public Service Director Mr. Stanley and
City Engineer Mr. Zilinek came to the podium to explain how to fix the problem
and the expense that it would take to repair. Mr. Stanley explained that there
has been an erosion problem at the 200 block of West Bay Street. He said the
net fencing has been good at keeping back the tides, but there needs to be a
permanent solution. It was challenging to find the appropriate stone that CAMA
would allow. He said that stone was found at a nearby rock quarry that would be
useable. A detailed scope of the project was provided to the Board for the
repairs that would cost approximately $181,000. Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller asked
if there was a rough timeline for completing this. Mr. Stanley said the process
will not begin until October. It would depend on how long equipment and permits
take to receive until the project can begin. The construction will take
approximately one month to complete. Alderman Alt asked if there was an
engineer who would be repairing the entire stretch of the west area of Bay
Street. Mr. Zilinek stated that currently, there is an RFP out for
qualifications to rebuild the entire stretch. Alderman Alt questioned how this
would be funded. Manager Therrien said that it would come out of Capital Funds.
   Alderman Allen made a Motion to approve the project and erosion mitigation
for West Bay St. using Capital Funds, seconded by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.  
   7.   Selection of Contractor for Cemetery Maintenance:
   Public Services Director Mr. Stanley requested approval for hiring Best
Funeral Service Contractor for $ 56,000 for the Maintenance of the Cemeteries.
Alderman Davis requested recusal from the vote due to a conflict of interest as
she is on the John C. Smith Cemetery Board. The request was granted. Mayor Pro
Tem Mosteller made a Motion to approve the contract with Best Funeral Services,
seconded by Alderman Carroll. Aye: Alderman Mosteller, Carroll, Allen and Alt.
Recused: Alderman Davis. Motion Carried 4-0
K.   Committee Reports: 
   Alderman Davis said the Forestry Committee has been working hard and
advancing in the Live Oak Society. She encouraged the public to continue
promoting the trees' protection and preservation. Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller
reminded everyone of the next Planning Board meeting on August 13th. Mayor
Hatem announced the ABC meeting will be on August 23rd due to travel and
vacations. They will be meeting at the ABC store.
L.   Manager’s Report: 
   Ms. Therrien stated there are currently 38 major projects in the City. All
the information is posted on the City website and updated every month. She said
Staff is doing an excellent job with keeping up. Ms. Dutton provided a list of
when the bids are due for various projects. She noted that Chief Coring, along
with Ms. Sally Learned and other organizations, have been working together to
communicate with people experiencing homelessness and help them get the
assistance they need.
M.    Mayor’s Comments:
Mayor Hatem announced that the Southport Police Department is having their
National Night Out on Friday, August 18th, and on the 19th, the Southport Unity
Committee
   Is having a back-to-school event. He said the annual Crab Derby will be over
the Labor Day Weekend and to be sure to stop by. Mayor Hatem said that the
September 11th Memorial Ceremony will begin at the Fire Department at 9:00 A.M.
on 9/11.
N.    Staff Reports:
   Provided in the Agenda Packet and posted on the City’s Website.
O.   Board Comments:
   Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller noted that the Police Department is not overwhelmed
with homeless people, but citizens have concerns regarding safety and other
issues. She said Chief Coring mentioned that he has part-time officers who can
utilize their presence by observing areas around the City. She encouraged more
monitoring to help the community feel comfortable.
P.   Mayor Hatem announced the Board will be entering into Closed Session Per
N.C.G.S. 143- 318.11 (a)(5) and Per § 143-318.11 (6).
   Alderman Allen made a Motion to enter in Closed Session and was seconded by
Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller. 
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried—9:20 p.m.
   Alderman Caroll made a Motion to return to Open Session at 9:51 p.m.,
seconded by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
   Alderman Carroll made a Motion to Adjourn, seconded by Alderman Allen.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
   Adjournment: 9:51 p.m.
 
_______________________________                   ________________________
Joseph P. Hatem, M.D., M.P.H., Mayor                   Tanya Shannon, Deputy
Clerk
SEPTEMBER 5, 2023
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
Board of Aldermen
Special Meeting Minutes - Homelessness Forum
Special Community Building 223 E. Bay Street
September 5, 2023
6:00 P.M.
Present:
Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor Pro Tem
Karen Mosteller, Alderman
Rich Alt, Lowe Davis, Robert Carroll, and Tom Lombardi.
Absent:
   None
Staff Present:
Bonnie Therrien, City Manager
Dorothy Dutton, Assistant City Manager/ City Clerk
Todd Coring, Police Chief
Tony Burke, Police Major
Charles Drew, Fire Chief
Tom Stanley, Public Services Director
Randy Jones, Community Relations Director
ChyAnn Ketchum, Community Relations/PIO
Sydney Heil, Community Building Administrator
Mayor Joseph P. Hatem called the meeting to order at 2:01 P.M. and welcomed
everyone.
The Invocation was given by Reverend Alderman Lowe Davis.
The Pledge of Allegiance was led by Mayor Hatem.
A Motion was made by Aderman Allen to approve the Agenda and seconded by
Alderman Davis. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
Manager Therrien thanked Chief Coring and Major Burke for their thorough
research on the homelessness situation in the area. She said they learned a lot
of information and found resources that would be helpful. She said the current
Ordinance may need to be strengthened for further policies and procedures
regarding the issue.
Public Forum Comments:
Joanne Claire-Mayer, 710 N. Atlantic Ave., said bad things happen to good
people, and sometimes people need help. She has prepared care packs with
helpful items for the needs of the homeless. She would like to give it to the
Police Department to hand out to those who need it. Also, she questioned if
there were showers at the Fire Department. She said that if people can shower
and freshen up, it might help them be able to get a job.
Sally Spaulding, 310 E. Nash St.; she recalled seeing a ground-breaking
homeless village in the Star News called Eden Village. She said the village is
a permanent residence for low-income people who pay $300 for rent. She said
that 2% of the region's population is homeless, and many factors apply to these
situations. She encouraged providing assistance to them instead of pushing them
out.
Sue Marsh, 614 W. Brown St., said that there were comments at the last Board of
Aldermen meeting that suggested that the people who are homeless be arrested
and removed from the city. She said as Christians, we should support others who
are less fortunate instead of trying to arrest them.
Ronald Thompson, 115 Thompson Drive, said, “We must plan, and if we fail to
plan, then we plan to fail.” He said it is important to treat everyone humanely
and to include everyone and not exclude anyone. He said we must treat everyone
how we would like to be treated. Come together to find a solution.
Sally Learned, 4181 Cambridge Cove Circle, Unit 2, Brunswick County, Executive
Director for Brunswick Partnership for Housing, a non-profit organization that
serves unhoused individuals and families in the county. She said they have
properties at 250 E. 11th in Southport. She wanted to speak on the non-profit
entities in the community and how to give support to the city and local law
enforcement. Chief Coring has met with the Brunswick County Partnership for
housing, and the organization has agreed to come to Southport and help provide
resources and support to the homeless. She said there is an alarming amount of
national homelessness currently. She said that if there is a situation of
concern, she should call 911, have law enforcement address the needs, and
contact the proper crisis intervention.
Paul Whitmer said that he has lived in the area for 21 years, is with the
American Legion, and has been working with the homeless for the past ten years.
He is the treasurer for the Brunswick County Homeless Coalition, a group of
volunteers that reach out and help people stay in their houses. He said the
need for assistance is increasing and that there are groups willing to help put
something together for outreach and assistance.
Casey Poplaski, Brunswick Senior Resources, would like the community to know
that they are providing assistance for a safe space and assisting senior
citizens who are sleeping in their cars in their parking lots waiting for them
to serve lunch. A big part of their program is connecting with them to provide
more resources. She reiterated, as other spokesmen have stated, that there are
not many shelters available, especially in Brunswick County, and there is a
great need for more shelters.
Garrett Albertson, 5348 Glennfield Circle SE, one of the pastors at Trinity
United Methodist Church. He said that he has heard this discussed before, and
it could be possible for people to shelter some people in their own homes. He
said that he has a large house and feels compassion for the needs of people
with no place to go. He quotes scripture from the Apostle James that emphasizes
“ do, doing, done,” and at the end of the passage, reads, “What is true
religion is to give aid to the widowed and the orphaned.” He said his hope is
for us to open our hearts and provide for those less fortunate.
There were no further comments from the Public. Manager Therrien called Chief
Coring and Major Burke to the podium for additional information.
Chief Coring said that the Police Department is taking the situation seriously,
and it is something that is not new to Southport. Chief Coring noted that he
had encountered many homeless since his position as Chief and asked them what
brought them to Southport. He said many times they said they take the Ferry
over and enjoyed the breezes, the community, and the kindness of Southport. He
said that the Police Department is being creative in handling the situation,
and they are professional and courteous to all people. He said he is proud of
the men and women in the City’s Police Department who have been working on this
issue. Chief Coring thanked the resource programs representatives in attendance
and provided more information about other resources.
   Major Burke said that the resources are available, and we have to come
forward to look for solutions. He said the solution is more than just the
Mayor, The Board, and The Police. He said we need to keep the momentum and move
forward. Major Burke said there has been a lot of discussion on enforcement. He
said the city’s ordinance and policies have been in place and that they are
more of a preventative versus the conclusion of just writing tickets and taking
people to jail. He said that would not do a lot to solve the issue. He said
that as we move forward, they have made recommendations to the Board for
strengthening some of the ordinances that directly apply to the homeless issue.
Major Burke explained that there are two parts of the rewrite to issuing fines
and penalties. He said, for example, if you have a homeless person who has set
up camp in Franklin Square Park and the police get a call, the police will
respond and address the situation. and determine the issue and the underlying
problem is a homelessness issue. He said writing a $25 city citation will not
work because they do not have money. He said they would add that citation to
the repeat offenders, and the criminal response is trying to address is
justified to make an arrest on-site on view by the officer if it is necessary,
but the intent is treating the underlying problems and providing the
appropriate resources.
Manager Therrien, everyone for attending and providing comments. She said it
was a good discussion, and as a community, we need to work together to find
solutions. She said there are a lot of resources available to support people
who are in a time of need. She said that there were some people who were
interested in doing a community watch, and they could contact her or the Police
Department on how this may be done. She also said that the community should
contact their local representatives and talk to them because it is not just
Southport. It is a county issue that all should be working on.
Mayor Hatem said this was an excellent discussion, and he is proud of the
community and the people here with passion and heartfelt kindness. He said the
county needs to be involved to help find solutions and collectively find ways
to support the growing needs of the homeless.
Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller made a Motion to enter into Closed Session per and
seconded by Alderman Lombardi.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.     
Alderman Carroll made a Motion to Adjourn, seconded by Alderman Allen.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
Adjournment: 9:51 p.m.
 
_______________________________                   ________________________
Joseph P. Hatem, M.D., M.P.H., Mayor                   Tanya Shannon, Deputy
Clerk
SEPTEMBER 8, 2023
AGENDA REVIEW MEETING MINUTES
BOARD OF ALDERMEN
AGENDA REVIEW MEETING MINUTES
INDIAN TRAIL MEETING HALL
SEPTEMBER 8, 2023
PRESENT:
Mayor Hatem, Mayor Pro-tem
Mosteller, Aldermen Allen, Alt, Davis, and Lombardi
ABSENT:
Alderman Carroll
STAFF PRESENT:
Bonnie Therrien, City Manager
Dorothy Dutton, Asst City Manager/Clerk
Tom Stanley, Public Services Director
Randy Jones, Community Relations Director
Sydney Heil, Community Bldg Admin
Heather Hemphill, Parks & Rec Director
Bob Jarvis, City Engineer
Tom Zilinek, City Engineer
Patti Fortuna, Human Resources Director
OTHERS PRESENT:
Tish Hatem, City Resident
Wes McLeod, Cape Fear Council of Governments
Pat Kirkman, City Resident
Jay Sharpe, Sharpe Patel PLLC
Rob Williamson, Evergreen Solutions
Mark Hoeweler, Grand Strand Area Transp. Study
Bill Fairley, City Resident    
Call to Order
Mayor Hatem called the meeting to order at 9:01 a.m.
Invocation
Alderman Lowe Davis provided the invocation.
Pledge of Allegiance
Mayor Hatem led everyone in reciting the Pledge of Allegiance.
Approval of Agenda
Mayor Hatem gave a quick overview of the agenda.
Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller made a motion to approve the agenda. The motion was
seconded by Alderman Lombardi.
All ayes. Motion carried.
Agenda
   1.
    Mayor Hatem invited Mr. Wes McLeod to the front to review the Cape Fear
Council of Government’s Build Out Study. Mayor Hatem and Wes McLeod stated that
Brunswick County was the 7th fastest growing county in the nation. Mr. McLeod
continued by stating that Southport has almost doubled in population since
2000. The City averages about (7) new residents a month. The population is 60%
or more over the age of 55 years old. Southport would need approximately (800)
more residences to account for the potential growth. Mr. McLeod reviewed the
amount of available acreage. Only 70% of the available acreage would be
considered buildable, and the remaining 30% would be considered open space,
roadways, utilities, and stormwater. Alderman Allen stated that Conditional
Zoning, or conservation zoning would mandate a portion of the remaining
property be designated as workforce/affordable housing. Alderman Alt asked if
it would be possible to calculate the total number of possible units and their
affect on the water/wastewater system.
   2.
   Mr. Jay Sharpe, with the City’s Auditing firm Sharpe Patel PLLC, spoke to
the Board next. He was able to provide a brief explanation of the audit
process. He stressed the (5) Key Phrases: Pre-planning, Planning, Risk
Assessment, Fieldwork, and Wrap-up. The purpose of an audit is to give an
opinion on the financial statements of an organization.
   3.
   Ms. Fortuna introduced Mr. Rob Williamson with Evergreen Solutions, who was
about to conduct the Pay/Classification Study on the City of Southport. Mr.
Williamson stated that Southport has a great team and that a “do nothing”
attitude is not an option. Benefits are always welcomed, but the younger
generations are not as driven by traditional benefits. Companies are working a
(4) day work week or allowing remote work. When the organization is flexible,
productivity is higher and retention increases. Mr. Williamson reviewed the
list of other municipalities that they will consider when carrying out the
study.
   4.
   Mark Hoeweler, with the Grand Strand Area Transportation Study, and two of
his staff members, discussed the GSATS program and how they might be able to
assist Southport. The GSATS is able to help with transportation models,
development impacts, the administration of contracts, corridor studies, and
reviewing TIAs. If the City opted to join GSATS, we would be part of the
Greater Grand Strand Area including Horry County, SC, Ocean Isle Beach,
Shallotte, and Holden Beach. But if some of the other adjacent municipalities
do not opt to join GSATS, we would not be eligible, because the areas have to
be contiguous. Alderman Alt asked about how the funding would be allocated
because the pot of funding would remain the same, but it would be mean more
municipalities would be trying to have their projects funded. Until the urban
boundary is here at Southport, the City can stay with the RPO or join GSATS.
The Board decided to take the item off the September Regular agenda and move it
to the October Board meeting.
   5.
   An item from the Regular Agenda review was moved up for discussion next. Mr.
Bill Fairley addressed the Board. He said he received a letter from the City
about using land inside their property’s setback. He said if the City builds
what is proposed, the City would be saving its property at the expense of the
Fairley’s property. Erosion has been astonishing, and he suspects the problem
will return and intensify. He said that they would be happy to participate and
suggested that the proposed wall extends out farther. He said the City could
build a reasonable wall now or wait and build a larger one later. He added that
the issue is emergent.
   City Engineer Tom Zilinek said the same thing is happening downstream from
this area, regardless of the rocks being in place. The Board would have to
decide which approach would be used to repair the area on Bay Street that has
become a hazardous area.
   6.
   Bob Jarvis, one of the City’s engineers, explained the draft of the Six-Year
Capital Improvement Plan. A copy was provided to all of the Board members. Mr.
Jarvis reviewed the process and stated that he was mainly looking for feedback
on the format of the CIP plan for now. He asked the Board to provide comments
as needed.
   7.
   Heather Hemphill approached the Board and explained the proposed ordinance
amendments. The proposed changes include language specifically forbidding
camping in any of the City parks and City properties. The amendment also
establishes a more definitive penalty for offenses.
   Mayor Hatem announced that there would be a break for lunch at 12:23 p.m.
Alderman Lombardi and Alderman Allen had to leave early.
   8.
   Ms. Dutton reviewed the revisions to the proposed Right of Way amendment.
She explained that the draft ordinance incorporates the suggestions made at the
last Board meeting. At this point, City staff and the Board will set up a
couple of public meetings to explain the changes to the public and get feedback
before anything is adopted by the Board. It is not on the agenda for September
12th.
   9.
   Ms. Dutton explained the proposed Minimum Housing Ordinance and how it would
be another tool for City staff to use to help abate some structures that are
derelict, or in need of repairs.
   10.
   Randy Jones, Community Relations Director, explained that he had been asked
to work on replacement signs for many of the City’s buildings. He used an
existing sign to have some renderings done. There are several shapes to choose
from, but the color scheme is the exact colors taken from the City Seal. Using
all the same colors and theme helps with branding. Mr. Jones would work with
the Historic Preservation Commission to make sure the proposed signs are in
character with the historic areas of Southport.
   11.
   The Board reviewed the items on the agenda quickly. On the agenda was the
proposed contract for Mr. Paul Fisher. He attends the ElectriCities meetings
and works as a liaison between the City and ElectriCities. There was a question
about whether other municipalities provided financial compensation to
ElectriCities representatives. They opted to move some of the items to Consent
Agenda.
F.)
Mayor Hatem stated that the meeting was excellent. He thanked everyone for
attending, and those watching from home.
G.) 
Because there was not a quorum present, Mayor Hatem just adjourned the meeting
without asking for motions.
The meeting was dismissed at 1:31 p.m.
               
                        ______________________________________
                        Joseph P. Hatem, M.D., M.P.H.
                        Mayor, City of Southport
________________________________________
Dorothy Dutton
Assistant City Manager/City Clerk
SEPTEMBER 14, 2023
Regular Meeting Minutes
Board of Aldermen
Regular Meeting Minutes
Special Community Building 223 E. Bay Street
September 14, 2023
6:00 P.M.
Present:
Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor Pro Tem Karen Mosteller, Alderman
Rich Alt, Lowe Davis, Robert Carroll, and Tom Lombardi.
Absent:
None
Staff Present:
Bonnie Therrien, City Manager
Tanya Shannon, Deputy Clerk
Todd Coring, Police Chief
Charles Drew, Fire Chief
Ralph Treadway Fire Chief Battalion
Heather Hemphill Parks and Rec. Director
Bob Jarvis, City Engineer
Lance Flint, Finance Director
Derrick Mabe, Code Enforcement
Randy Jones, Community Relations Director
ChyAnn Ketchum, Community Relations/PIO
Sydney Heil, Community Building Administrator
 
Mayor Joseph P. Hatem called the meeting to order at 6:01 P.M. and welcomed
everyone.
The Invocation was given by Chief Charles Drew.
The Pledge of Allegiance was led by Mayor Hatem.
Introduction of new Staff Members and swearing in new Finance Director, Lance
Flint.
Public Comments:
Cheryl Daniel, 120 West Bay Street, is a member of the “Friends of Franklin”
advocacy group to initiate the protection and preservation of Franklin Square
Park. She said that they have had 532 members in five days. She thinks there is
an urgent need to conserve the Park and protect the critical root zone of the
trees before further destruction. She encouraged all events and markets in the
park to move to another location.
Jeanne Potter, 315 Burrington Avenue, with the “Friends of Franklin,” implored
the Board to take action to protect and preserve the park. She said the group's
membership has grown, and there is a lot of support to restore the park. She
would like to see vendors find a new location for events.
Sue Marsh, 6114 W. Brown St. #H, announced that the Southport Candidate Forum,
Sponsored by the League of Women Voters, will be on October 3rd and encouraged
Voters to Submit questions for the candidates.
Gene Tomlinson, 101 River Drive, is also a member of the “Friends of Franklin”
who said he was born and raised in the city and would like to see the park
preserved. He feels like that events can be moved down to the Waterfront Park.
He addressed the homeless and said he had witnessed several in the city. He
encouraged the community to help them find the assistance they need.
Pat Kirkman, 119 Park Ave., stated that Mayor Hatem appointed the Ad Hoc
Cemetery Committee in April, although it has taken five months to get here. The
members of the Committee will be meeting and presenting to the Board. She said,
as heard before, City Government is a slow process. She said her interest in
preserving the old Smithfield Burial Ground started over a year ago, and she is
excited to see more progress in protecting the Cemeteries.
Paul Swenson, 107 N. Atlantic Ave., is concerned about the erosion of the
waterfront. He said that it was an emergency and the shoreline was
disappearing. He knows there have been studies and mitigations, but action must
be taken now. The waterfront is the city's most valuable asset, and it needs to
be a priority to start with the most vulnerable areas and then continue with
shoreline stabilization. He provided photos of a living shoreline for the
public and the Board to view at their discretion.
Gary Lindenmuth, 603 Longleaf Drive, said he had been a resident for three
years and wanted to congratulate the Mayor and the Board. He said this Board
has done more in the short time he has lived here than any previous board. He
encouraged everyone to continue to give them support.
The Ethic Statement was read by Mayor Hatem:
“If any members know of any conflict of interest or the appearance of a
conflict of interest concerning matters on the agenda, please so state at this
time.
   Alderman Carroll requested recusal from the Closed Session due to a
potential conflict of interest. The Board agreed on his recusal.
F.   Approval of the Agenda: 
Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller made a Motion to approve the Agenda, seconded by
Alderman Lombardi. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
G.    Public Hearing:
Short-term Vacation Rental Ordinance Amendment:
   Mayor Hatem declared the Public Hearing Open. Manager Therrien gave an
overview of the amendment. She explained that At their July 20, 2023 meeting,
the Planning Board voted to send the Board of Aldermen a recommendation of
approval for a Unified Development Ordinance Amendment to multiple sections of
the Ordinance relating to Short-term Vacation Rentals and Homestays,
specifically to remove references to the already-unenforced annual registration
requirement. Alderman Davis reiterated that this does not take away from the
regulations. It is just for removing the fees for registration.
   Since there were no comments, Mayor Hatem declared the Public Hearing
Closed.
H.   Consent Agenda:
MARSOC Marine Agreement
Goldenleaf Stormwater Agreement
Cape Fear Council of Governments Planning Services Agreement
Minutes of the Board of Aldermen Regular Meeting August 10, 2023
Contract with Mr. Paul Fisher for ElectriCities Meetings
Donation of Boat
Resolution Adopting Brunswick County's Emergency Management Operations Plan
Cyber Security Grant-No Overdue Tax Certification Form
Approval of the Paving Contract
   A Motion was made by Alderman Allen to approve the Consent Agenda and
seconded by Alderman Lombardi. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
I.   Special Recognition:
   Mayor Hatem presented Interim Finance Director Mr. Paul Gross with a
Proclamation of Appreciation for his outstanding service as the Interim Finance
Director for the City. He wished him well as he goes back to enjoying
retirement.       
J.   Agenda
   1.   Financial Policies:
   A) Travel Policy B) Procurement Policy  C) Federal Procurement Policy
   Interim Finance Director Paul Gross gave an overview of each policy.
Alderman Carroll made a Motion to approve the Travel, Procurement, and Federal
Procurement Policies, seconded by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller. Unanimous Vote;
Motion Carried.
   2.   Presentation of Space Needs Study: 
   Josh Bennett, Principal of the firm Moseley Architects, gave a PowerPoint
Presentation on the preliminary findings for the City Hall renovations and the
building of a new Police facility. There was a discussion of three options for
relocating the Police Department. The Board did not favor the Nash Street
concept plan at the Fire Substation. Another option was to relocate to the Old
City Hall on the first floor. Mr. Bennett said that there was not enough space.
Alderman Carroll noted that as it stands, it is not big enough, but it allows
for space to be added. He does agree that there would be a parking issue. He
said that it would be great to utilize the land and the building that the city
already had, but the money it would cost to renovate would be costly. He feels
that finding a property that is feasible for the construction of a two-story
building is ideal. It appeared that the Board was more in favor of finding a
location to build the Police Department. The consensus of the Board was to have
workshops and other meetings for more discussion.
   3.   Appointment of Cemetery Committee Members:
   Mayor Hatem requested that item 6 on the agenda be moved up to item 3. Mayor
Pro Tem Mosteller made a Motion to change the order on the agenda, seconded by
Alderman Carroll. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried. Alderman Davis recommended
appointing the following people to the Committee: Jeanne-Brown Busch one-year
term, Tish Hatem's two-year term, Jason Robbins's 2-year term, and Lawrence
Ashley 3-year term. She also recommended Musette Steck (Historical Society),
Andrew Parks (John Smith Cemetery), and Lynee Geiman (Beautification
Committee). Mayor Pro-Tem Mosteller made a Motion to approve the
recommendations for the Ad Hoc Cemetery Committee appointments, seconded by
Alderman Carroll. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
   4.   Merger Feasibility Study:
   Mr. David Malinauskas, Wooten Engineering Water Resources Practice Manager,
gave a presentation on the study. He explained that The Wooten Company examined
current sewer rates, capital project needs, and capacity needs. The Study
concluded that after evaluating four alternatives, two remain viable. The City
of Southport can continue to operate independently and pay for its pro-rated
upgrade of the Mulberry Branch WRF, or it can merge with Brunswick County and
benefit from a higher customer base and economies of scale cost savings.
   The Board discussed how merging with the county would be beneficial. Mr.
Malinauskas said some advantages would be that Southport would no longer be
solely financially responsible for repairing, operating, and maintaining its
sewer system. City customers would pay a negotiated rate as part of Brunswick
County's system, and the City would no longer pay a bulk wholesale rate to the
County. This new rate is expected to be approximately 60% of the current
customer rates. In summary, Mr. Malinauskas concluded that, in perspective, it
would be more cost-effective to merge with the county.
    5.    Amendment to Interlocal Agreement with the County-Sewer Expansion: 
   Mayor Hatem summarized the current agreement to date. The County needs a
revised Interlocal Agreement with the City that lists the terms moving forward
with the payment of the County Sewer Plant expansion. Manager Therrien said
that bids went out twice, and the 47 bids were opened recently and certified by
the county engineer. She the bids last for 90 days, and as of November 7th, a
decision must be made before the process has to start over. She said that it is
imperative that the county goes to the local LGC and be allowed to issue the
revenue bonds, and the LGC will not entertain until they see the merger
feasibility study. Manager Therrien said this amendment would be in place until
a merger feasibility study is negotiated. Aaron Smith, Director of Fiscal
Operation for Brunswick County, was present to answer questions. Mayor Pro Tem
Mosteller asked for clarification on the classification of different rates. Mr.
Smith said that as of the 2020 agreement, the City was in retail, commercial
customer rate to get where the plant could be built, and then the City would
become a full participant in the system. He said once there is full
participation in the system, the City would pay the participant rates. He said
if a merger took place, there would no longer be residential customers, and all
that goes away. The county would be taking care of all the City’s customers.
   Alderman Allen made a Motion to approve in concept the First Amendment to
the Interlocal Agreement with the County-Sewer Expansion with the provision of
the wastewater treatment services subject to final negotiations and revisions
by Staff, the City Attorney, and the City Bond Council and to forward the
recommendation for the approval to the Brunswick County Commissioners and
second by Alderman Lombardi. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
   10 Minute Break at 8:46 P.M. and returned at 9:00 P.M. Mayor Hatem stated
that due to the late hour and time restraints, agenda items 5, 8, and 9 will
continue and then move into Closed Session, and the other items on the agenda
will be discussed at a later date.
   6.  Bay Street Sidewalk:
   Mayor Hatem has urged immediate action to address the erosion of the
sidewalk at the 200 block of W. Bay Street, which is eroding into the
shoreline. Tom Stanley and Tom Zilineck requested $181,000 of capital funding
to fix the problem with rip rap until water stabilization can take place in the
future. Permission was obtained from the abutting properties, except for the
Fairley’s. The Fairleys can either sign on to be part of the City project or
apply to do the work on their property. The Board needs to approve the City to
pay for this private property work. Alderman Carroll has stated that the fix
will not cause any issues with the Fairley's property or any adjacent
properties and that this is an emergency response to a pressing issue.
         Alderman Carroll made a Motion to move forward with the plan to
resolve the critical need to deter and repair the current erosion issues for
this portion of the Bay Street sidewalk and to exclude private property,
seconded by Alderman Alt. Unanimous Vote; Motion carried.
       Mayor Pro Tem requested that the City Manager oversee the monitoring of
the repairs for any negative impacts from the emergency repair to the adjacent
property.    
   7.   Discussion and Decision: Text Amendment: Illuminated Signage: 
   Manager Therrien gave an overview of the proposed Text Amendment. She said
the applicant, Haven 307, LLC, has requested this amendment to receive final
approval for a backlit sign that is not currently permitted. However, the City
and the property owner have signed a letter of agreement allowing the sign
illumination until the UDO amendment can be processed. She said that it does
currently meet the provisions of Section 3.19 in the UDO.
   Alderman Allen made A Motion to approve the Land Use Consistency Statement,
citing consistency with Policy 7.9 of the Land Use Plan and the Zoning Text
Amendment regarding illuminated signs as presented and seconded by Alderman
Carroll. Alderman Davis commented that she believes this is going down a
slippery slope, and inviting more backlit signs could go in the wrong
direction. Ayes: Alderman Allen, Carroll, Alt, Lombardi, and Mayor Pro Tem
Mosteller. Nayes: Alderman Davis. Motion Carried 5-1.
   9.    Board Discussion and Decision: Rezoning: 605 W. Brown Street:
   Manger Therrien gave an overview and said that the Planning Board, at their
June 15, 2023 meeting, voted to send the Board of Aldermen a recommendation of
approval for the Zoning Map Amendment at 605 W Brown Street from Multi-Family
to R-10 Residential. A duly advertised public hearing was held on August 10,
2023, prior to the Board of Aldermen making a decision on the proposed
amendment. The Zoning Map Amendment has been reviewed by Staff for consistency
with the Land Use Plan and the surrounding neighborhood.
         A Motion was made by Alderman Carroll to approve the Land Use
Consistency Statement, citing consistency with Policy 2.4 of the Land Use Plan
and the Zoning Map Amendment from MF to R-10 as presented and seconded by Mayor
Pro Tem Mosteller. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
   14.   Revising the Regular Board of Aldermen Meeting Schedule: 
   Mayor Hatem said that after discussions with the City Manager, he
recommended that the Board no longer have Workshop Meetings but instead hold
two Regular Board Meetings monthly. Manager Therrien favored this so that the
Board could take votes in Regular Meetings versus Workshops. There was a
discussion on dates and times. It was the consensus of the Board to hold the
first Thursday of every month at 1:00 P.M. Alderman Lombardi made a Motion to
have a Regular Board of Aldermen Meeting on the first Thursday of every month
at 1:00 P.M in addition to the Regular Board of Aldermen Meeting on the second
Thursday of every month at 6:00 P.M. at the Community Building and second by
Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.  
P.   Closed Session N.C.G.S. 143-318.11 (a) (5).
To establish or to instruct the public body's staff or negotiating agents
concerning the position to be taken by or on behalf of the public body in
negotiating (i) the price and other material terms of a contract or proposed
contract for the acquisition of real property by purchase, option, exchange, or
lease; or (ii) the amount of compensation and other material terms of an
employment contract or proposed employment contract.
   Aderman Allen made a Motion to go into Closed Session and, seconded by
Alderman Lombardi. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried—9:16 P.M.
   Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller made a Motion to return to an Open Session and
Adjourn, seconded by Alderman Lombardi. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
Adjournment: 9:33 P.M.
    _______________________________                   ________________________
    Joseph P. Hatem, M.D., M.P.H., Mayor                   Tanya Shannon,
Deputy Clerk
OCTOBER 5, 2023
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
Board of Aldermen
Regular Meeting Minutes
Community Building 223 E. Bay Street
October 5, 2023
1:00 P.M.
Present:
Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor Pro Tem Karen Mosteller, Alderman
Rich Alt, Lowe Davis, Robert Carroll, Tom Lombardi and John Allen.
Absent:
None
Staff Present:
Bonnie Therrien, City Manager
Tanya Shannon, Deputy Clerk
Todd Coring, Police Chief
Charles Drew, Fire Chief
Heather Hemphill, Parks & Rec. Director
Tom Stanley, Public Services Director
ChyAnn Ketchum, Community Relations/PIO
Mo Meehan, City Planner
Lance Flint, Finance Director
A)
Mayor Joseph P. Hatem called the meeting to order at 1:00 P.M. and welcomed
everyone.
B)
The Invocation was given by Reverend Alderman Davis.
C)
The Pledge of Allegiance was led by Mayor Hatem.
D)
Introduction of New Employees Abbey Glenn, Permit Technician, and Amanda
Clemmons, Parks and Recreation Assistant.
Mayor Hatem Read the Ethics Statement:
“If any members know of any conflict of interest or the appearance of a
conflict of interest concerning matters on the agenda, please so state at this
time.”
E)   Approval of the Agenda:
Alderman Davis Made a Motion to add Public Comment to the Agenda and seconded
by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
F)   Public Comment:
Jason Robbins, 504 # B Brunswick St., commented on agenda item #9 regarding
Political Signs and the UDO Requirements. He has concerns about the placement
and allowances for political signs on private property. To his understanding,
the most recent updates to the UDO indicate that only one sign per property/lot
is allowed, and this is a violation of the U.S. Constitution's 1st Amendment.
He requested a resolution not to enforce these requirements pending further
review and an amendment to the UDO.
G)   Approval of the Consent Agenda:
1.   Electronic Records Policy
2.   Abandonment of Southeast Brunswick Sanitary District Pipe
3.   Agreement with NCLM for Cybersecurity Assistance
4.   Minutes of the Regular Agenda Review and Workshop September 8, 2023
5.   Minutes of the Regular Agenda Review and Workshop August 4, 2023
6.   Minutes of the Special Town Hall Meeting on Homelessness in Southport
September 5, 2023
 
A Motion was made by Alderman Lombardi to approve the Consent Agenda and second
by Alderman Davis. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
H)
1.   Presentation and Update of the NC 211 Construction:
   Mr. Josh Pratt from NCDOT gave a presentation on the NC 211 construction
project. Alderman Davis expressed concerns about the traffic flow going in the
opposite direction from their turnouts. Mr. Pratt explained that drivers must
turn right and then make a U-turn, which was designed to reduce accidents and
fatalities. Mr. Law clarified that no additional traffic lights were planned.
Alderman Davis asked why four lanes were going into two lanes, and Mr. Law
explained that the concept is that traffic will be moving around, with options
to turn onto different roads. Mr. Pratt mentioned that traffic studies were
done for the project.
   Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller provided some background on the project. The
engineers worked with the City to end the expansion at the intersection of Howe
St. and Robert Ruark to preserve trees. They also will bury power lines at no
cost to the city and design sidewalks for 80% of the price and other features
that would benefit the City.
   Alderman Alt mentioned that in Leland, there are specific traffic lights set
up to facilitate U-turns, which prevents traffic from backing up when drivers
need to make a U-turn. He questioned why the state wouldn't consider
implementing similar measures to ensure smoother traffic flow for U-turn
makers. Mr. Law, the project engineer, said this would be a reduced conflict
traffic situation and that he could speak to the design team and come back with
answers for specific locations on designated U-turn lanes.
   Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller noted that the last public meeting was in October
2017, and the project design was completed. All design work has been on their
website since 2018. The project was initially set to begin in 2018 but was
delayed due to Hurricane Florence and other factors.
2.   Easement Agreement with Atlantic Telephone Membership Corporation
   Manager Therrien provided an overview of the proposed agreement. She
mentioned that Focus Broadband is seeking to purchase a property in Southport
to enhance the City's internet services. Although there are four sites that
they are interested in, all of them are located in residential areas. She
suggested that the location on River Road, where there is a City Lift Station,
would be more suitable. Public Services Director and City Engineer Zilinek
visited the site to assess if a shared easement would be possible. They agreed
that the construction could be carried out without affecting the lift station.
The City Attorney reviewed the draft of the permanent easement agreement that
was provided to the Board. She said that instead of purchasing the easement for
around $4,300, Broadband is willing to put down $10,000 towards WiFi in
Downtown and the Parks. Manager Therrien recommended the agreement and thought
it would benefit the City.
         Mr. Chirs Ward from Focus Broadband was available to respond to any
inquiries. Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller asked if the installation would be entirely
underground. Mr. Ward confirmed that all the facilities were underground, and
they were collaborating with Brunswick Electric to install them up to the Hwy
211 widening project. Alderman Davis asked if the entire City would have access
to Focus Broadband. Mr. Ward said they intend to serve every portion of
Southport at some point. If the agreement is approved, installing the fiber
optics will eventually give access to the entire City. Alderman Alt asked if
this would interfere with connecting with other WiFi connections. Mr. Ward said
that it would not. Alderman Alt asked what the timeline would be for the
project. Mr. Ward said he did not know and would get back to him.
         Alderman Allen Made a Motion to grant acceptance of a deed for a
permanent easement on the City-owned parcel #2210002707 as outlined in the
attached Easement Agreement, which has been reviewed by the City Attorney and,
in exchange, accept the $10,000 towards the partial installation of WiFi in the
downtown area and the City parks and seconded by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
         Alderman Carroll sought clarification regarding the $10,000 allocated
for the WiFi installation and its total cost. In response, Manager Therrien
said that the estimated cost for the entire project was $20,000. She suggested
that the installation could be done in phases, and the remaining cost could be
included in the next budget.
3.   Building Assessment Consultant Selection
   Mayor Hatem provided an overview of the City's Building Assessment. He
emphasized the importance of regular maintenance for municipal buildings.
   Public Services Director Tom Stanley said the city had sent requests for
qualifications, and HICAPS is the recommended company for the job. The best
part is that their price falls below the budgeted amount, leaving some funds
available in case any repairs are needed. The team is ready to begin the work
and would like to start with the Old City Hall/Courthouse.
   Alderman Carroll inquired about the number of Municipal buildings, and Mayor
Hatem confirmed that there were 18 in total, including restrooms. Alderman
Carroll made a Motion to approve a contract with HICAPS for Municipal Building
Services and authorize the Manager or Mayor to execute a contract and seconded
by Alderman Lombardi. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
4.   Regional Planning Organization Selection
   Mayor Hatem said the City has been presented with two options regarding
joining a regional planning organization responsible for transportation study
and development. The first option is the Grand Strand Area Transportation Study
Group (GSATS), and the second is continuing to work with the Regional Planning
Group the City is currently affiliated with through the Cape Fear Council of
Governments. Initially, the City was also suggested to consider joining the
Wilmington Metro Planning Organization, but they have decided not to expand
their membership. These organizations can help with transportation funding
applications, as well as planning studies for future projects and technical
reviews.
   It was the consensus of the Board to continue with the Cape Fear Regional
Planning Group. Alderman Alt made a Motion to have the City of Southport join
with the Cape Fear RPO for the City’s future planning needs and opportunities
for transportation funding, seconded by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller. Unanimous
Vote; Motion Carried. 
5.   Short-term Vacation Rental Ordinance-Board Decision
   City Planner Meehan said the proposed amendment aims to remove references to
the already- unenforced annual registration requirement in multiple sections of
the Ordinance relating to Short Term Vacation Rentals and Homestays.
Specifically, the request is to amend Section 2.6. I 'Annual Zoning Permit for
Homestays and Short-Term Vacation Rentals,' Section 3.6.G 'Homestay,' Section
3.8.II 'Short- Term Vacation Rentals,' and Article 8 'Definitions. ‘This
amendment is intended to bring the Unified Development Ordinance into full
compliance with recent judicial decisions.
   Alderman Carroll expressed concerns about enforcing an ordinance related to
short-term rentals. He cited examples of non-compliant properties on rental
websites. To enforce regulations, Manager Therrien said they must constantly
monitor rental websites. Planner Meehan said that Code Enforcement had already
sent letters to non-compliant properties, and the penalty was around $25.
Alderman Allen added that the cost of violations increases with non-compliance,
and Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller mentioned a daily violation fee. The Board would
like to gather more information on software, violation fees, and other ways to
manage non-compliant rentals.
   Alderman Carroll made a Motion to approve the Land Use Consistency Statement
to remain consistent with current General Statutes and the Zoning Text
Amendment regarding short-term vacation Rentals and Homestays as presented and
seconded by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller.  Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
9.   Political Signs (moved to agenda item 6).
   Alderman Davis has expressed concerns about the current regulations in the
UDO that govern political signs. The current regulation limits the number of
political signs to one per property, which Alderman Davis believes is unjust
and violates the First Amendment. After consulting with several constitutional
attorneys and organizations, she has confirmed that this regulation could be a
potential violation of the Constitution. Alderman Davis cited a Supreme Court
decision to support her argument. She urges that the Constitution be upheld and
that this regulation not be enforced until it is revised in the UDO.
   During the meeting, the City Attorney, Mr. Brady Herman, joined via
conference call to answer inquiries regarding the Ordinance. Upon reviewing it,
he believed that the Ordinance was not unconstitutional but was excessively
restrictive and needed to be addressed. He suggested that the revision of the
sign Ordinance, including political signs, should be postponed until after the
election and the start of the new year. He also added that if only one sign is
allowed, it could be deemed too restrictive by a court. Furthermore, he
proposed not enforcing the political sign Ordinance until the Planning Board
drafts and recommends a revised version for adoption approval from the
Aldermen. However, Alderman Davis respectfully disagreed.
   The Board discussed reviewing the revisions of the sign Ordinance but
decided to vote on not enforcing the use of multiple signs on private personal
property. Manager Therrien asked Mr. Herman if it was legal not to enforce a
part of the Ordinance with a Board vote, to which he replied that it was the
best temporary solution to rectify the situation.
   Alderman Carroll made a Motion to direct City Staff not to enforce the
portion of the political sign ordinance related to the number of signs on
private personal property and not in the right-of-way, seconded by Mayor Pro
Tem Mosteller. Aye: Alderman Carroll, Allen, Alt, Lombardi and Mosteller. Nay:
Alderman Davis. Motion Carried (5-1)
6.   Forensic Audit
   Alderman Alt proposed a plan to improve the policies and procedures related
to financial oversight. Mayor Pro Tem expressed her disagreement with spending
$10,000 on the forensic audit and suggested that the professional staff should
handle it instead. Alderman Alt clarified that the issue was not with the
project itself but rather the process of how the money is being utilized. He
suggested verifying that the money was being used correctly. Mayor Pro Tem
Mosteller recommended reviewing the finance director's report first. Alderman
Allen explained that a forensic audit is an examination to find illegal
financial records and activities. He mentioned that if there is no evidence of
financial misfeasance, then there is no need for a forensic audit. Alderman
Lombardi questioned the staff's capability to manage the project, and Manager
Therrien confirmed that the staff was capable. She expressed her belief that
there may have been mistakes in the Taylor's Field project. Alderman Davis
asked when the Howe Street project was completed, and Alderman Lombardi replied
that it was around 2018. Alderman Davis suggested asking the finance director
to conduct a financial audit on these projects to pinpoint any mistakes.
Manager Therrien explained that the finance director had only been in the
position for three weeks and was still learning the program. Manager Therrien
said that it would be difficult to take the Finance Director off of everything
he is doing now with the budget season approaching to specifically devote time
to the finances of these projects.
   Mayor Hatem stressed the importance of monitoring the projects and ensuring
that the staff had the necessary support and resources.
   Alderman Alt proposed a motion to allocate $10,350 for a forensic audit of
the Howe St., Bay Street, and Taylor Field projects. However, there was no
second motion, and it was denied.
   Robert made a motion to direct the staff to research the subject further and
come back to the board with recommendations. Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller seconded
the motion.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
7.   Creek Committee
    Alderman Alt requested the City Manager to take necessary measures
regarding public health warnings based on creek readings at Cottage, Bonnett’s,
and Price’s Creek. He proposed forming a workgroup comprising City staff,
County Public Health officials, and State water quality experts. This group
would be responsible for giving monthly updates to the Board of Aldermen. The
purpose behind this is to authorize the city manager to allow signs warning the
public about high bacteria levels. Mayor Pro Tem suggested reviewing all
policies, while Alderman Allen inquired whether the county and state had been
consulted.
   Manager Therrien informed the Board that she had reached out to both the
county and state officials. They provided some levels that are required to
trigger warnings, but it depends on the type of water and other factors. She
also informed the Board that the Staff is working with a lab in Colorado to
conduct a test. The County reverts to the State on such matters. Alderman Allen
further inquired about the composition of the committee. Alderman Alt clarified
that the intention was to have a policy that would allow testing and come back
to the Manager with a recommendation to move forward.
   The Board's consensus was to ask the city manager to appoint a group or
person to look into the situation and put signs up if needed. The Board members
also expressed a desire to converse with health departments to determine if
there's a need for warning signs.
   Alderman Alt made a Motion to allow the City Manager to decide who should be
on the Creek Committee, set up procedures for monitoring the Creeks for
bacteria, and take appropriate actions if needed. The Motion was seconded by
Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller. Unanimous Vote; Motion carried.
8.   Affordable Housing
   Recently, Mayor Hatem met with neighboring mayors to discuss the issue of
affordable housing. Each municipality expressed concern about the lack of
workforce housing and possible solutions to address it. The Mayor emphasized
that a collaborative effort with county officials is necessary to find a viable
solution.
   In this regard, Alderman Alt has requested the City Manager to form a
workgroup comprising City staff, Brunswick County Habitat for Humanity, and
other non-profit organizations. The workgroup will provide the Board of
Aldermen with a list of options for both economic and non-economic incentives
that the City can adopt to promote workforce housing initiatives.
   Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller announced that a new Development Services Director
will soon be joining. Once the Director and the Planner arrive, they will
evaluate the planning process for affordable housing. Alderman Carroll
acknowledged that the issue is essential and appreciates the effort. However,
due to the average lot cost of around $30,000 in Southport, it would be
challenging to execute any plans for affordable housing in the area. Therefore,
he suggested looking into alternative options in Brunswick County, where
affordable lots are available. Alderman Carroll favors affordable housing and
supports the need to work with other entities with the resources to
accommodate.
   Mayor Hatem announced an upcoming meeting for the mayors seeking help from
the County Commissioners and NC State Officials. They aim to collaborate to
provide incentives for affordable housing for the workforce in Brunswick
County, the seventh fastest-growing county in the nation. Manager Therrien
suggested the Board send a letter to the County to generate support and
collaborate on a solution.
    Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller made a Motion to instruct either the Mayor or the
City Manager to reach out to all available resources, including county and
state officials, Habitat for Humanity, and other relevant organizations, to
work on creating affordable housing for the future. Alderman Lombardi seconded
the motion, and it was unanimously approved. The aim is to start the housing
projects as soon as possible. Second by Alderman Lombardi. Unanimous Vote;
Motion Carried.
I.    Committee Reports:
provided In the agenda packet
J.   Manager’s Report:
   Manager Therrien announced the recognition of staff years of service and the
Shoreline Stabilization project at Indian Trail Meeting Hall on October 11th.
K.   Mayor’s Comments:
   Mayor Hatem expressed his gratitude to everyone for attending and mentioned
that he eagerly anticipated the Shoreline Stabilization Meeting on October 11th
and the Regular Board of Aldermen Meeting on the 12th, where several special
recognitions will be made. He also announced the opening ceremony of the King
Mackerel Fishing Tournament and Captain Charlie's Fishing Tournament.
L.   Board’s Comments: 
   The Board expressed gratitude towards Chief Drew for his service and
leadership. They also discussed upcoming community events, and Alderman Davis
raised concerns about political signs. Alderman Lombardi shared positive news
about the Beautification Committee and his knee replacement surgery, and Mayor
Pro Tem Mosteller announced upcoming events.
M.   Closed Session
   Closed Session N.C.G.S. 143-318.11 (a) (5). To establish or to instruct the
public body's staff or negotiating agents concerning the position to be taken
by or on behalf of the public body in negotiating (i) the price and other
material terms of a contract or proposed contract for the acquisition of real
property by purchase, option, exchange, or lease; or (ii) the amount of
compensation an employment contract or proposed employment contract.
   Alderman Carroll requested recusal from the session due to a potential
conflict of interest. Mayor Pro Tem made a Motion to approve recusal and
seconded by Alderman Lombardi. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
   Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller made a Motion to enter into Closed Session and,
seconded by Alderman Lombardi, Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried-3:49 p.m.
   Alderman Lombardi Motioned to return to Open Session and seconded by
Alderman Davis. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
   There being no further business, Mayor Hatem requested a Motion to Adjourn.
   Motion to Adjourn by Alderman Allen and seconded by Alderman Lombardi.
Adjournment: 4:28 p.m.
                                 __________________________________________
                                    Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, M.D., M.P.H, Mayor
 
________________________________
   Tanya Shannon, Deputy Clerk
 
 
Board of Aldermen
Regular Meeting Minutes
Community Building 223 E. Bay Street
October 5, 2023
1:00 P.M.
 
   Present:         Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor Pro Tem Karen Mosteller,
Alderman
                  Rich Alt, Lowe Davis, Robert Carroll, Tom Lombardi and John
Allen.
 
   Absent:         None
 
Staff Present:      Bonnie Therrien, City Manager
                  Tanya Shannon, Deputy Clerk
                  Todd Coring, Police Chief
                  Charles Drew, Fire Chief
                  Heather Hemphill, Parks & Rec. Director
                  Tom Stanley, Public Services Director
                  ChyAnn Ketchum, Community Relations/PIO
                  Mo Meehan, City Planner
                  Lance Flint, Finance Director
 
 
A)   Mayor Joseph P. Hatem called the meeting to order at 1:00 P.M. and
welcomed everyone.
 
B)   The Invocation was given by Reverend Alderman Davis.
 
C)   The Pledge of Allegiance was led by Mayor Hatem.
 
D)   Introduction of New Employees Abbey Glenn, Permit Technician, and Amanda
Clemmons, Parks and Recreation Assistant.
Mayor Hatem Read the Ethics Statement:
“If any members know of any conflict of interest or the appearance of a
conflict of interest concerning matters on the agenda, please so state at this
time.”
 
E)   Approval of the Agenda: Alderman Davis Made a Motion to add Public Comment
to the Agenda and seconded by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller. Unanimous Vote; Motion
Carried.
 
F)   Public Comment: Jason Robbins, 504 # B Brunswick St., commented on agenda
item #9 regarding Political Signs and the UDO Requirements. He has concerns
about the placement and allowances for political signs on private property. To
his understanding, the most recent updates to the UDO indicate that only one
sign per property/lot is allowed, and this is a violation of the U.S.
Constitution's 1st Amendment. He requested a resolution not to enforce these
requirements pending further review and an amendment to the UDO.
 
G)   Approval of the Consent Agenda:
 
Electronic Records Policy
1.   Abandonment of Southeast Brunswick Sanitary District Pipe
2.   Agreement with NCLM for Cybersecurity Assistance
3.   Minutes of the Regular Agenda Review and Workshop September 8, 2023
4.   Minutes of the Regular Agenda Review and Workshop August 4, 2023
5.   Minutes of the Special Town Hall Meeting on Homelessness in Southport
September 5, 2023
 
   A Motion was made by Alderman Lombardi to approve the Consent Agenda and
second by Alderman Davis. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
 
 
H)   1. Presentation and Update of the NC 211 Construction: 
 
         Mr. Josh Pratt from NCDOT gave a presentation on the NC 211
construction project. Alderman Davis expressed concerns about the traffic flow
going in the opposite direction from their turnouts. Mr. Pratt explained that
drivers must turn right and then make a U-turn, which was designed to reduce
accidents and fatalities. Mr. Law clarified that no additional traffic lights
were planned. Alderman Davis asked why four lanes were going into two lanes,
and Mr. Law explained that the concept is that traffic will be moving around,
with options to turn onto different roads. Mr. Pratt mentioned that traffic
studies were done for the project.
 
         Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller provided some background on the project. The
engineers worked with the City to end the expansion at the intersection of Howe
St. and Robert Ruark to preserve trees. They also will bury power lines at no
cost to the city and design sidewalks for 80% of the price and other features
that would benefit the City.
 
         Alderman Alt mentioned that in Leland, there are specific traffic
lights set up to facilitate U-turns, which prevents traffic from backing up
when drivers need to make a U-turn. He questioned why the state wouldn't
consider implementing similar measures to ensure smoother traffic flow for U-
turn makers. Mr. Law, the project engineer, said this would be a reduced
conflict traffic situation and that he could speak to the design team and come
back with answers for specific locations on designated U-turn lanes.
 
         Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller noted that the last public meeting was in
October 2017, and the project design was completed. All design work has been on
their website since 2018. The project was initially set to begin in 2018 but
was delayed due to Hurricane Florence and other factors.
 
2.   Easement Agreement with Atlantic Telephone Membership Corporation
   
         Manager Therrien provided an overview of the proposed agreement. She
mentioned that Focus Broadband is seeking to purchase a property in Southport
to enhance the City's internet services. Although there are four sites that
they are interested in, all of them are located in residential areas. She
suggested that the location on River Road, where there is a City Lift Station,
would be more suitable. Public Services Director and City Engineer Zilinek
visited the site to assess if a shared easement would be possible. They agreed
that the construction could be carried out without affecting the lift station.
The City Attorney reviewed the draft of the permanent easement agreement that
was provided to the Board. She said that instead of purchasing the easement for
around $4,300, Broadband is willing to put down $10,000 towards WiFi in
Downtown and the Parks. Manager Therrien recommended the agreement and thought
it would benefit the City.
 
         Mr. Chirs Ward from Focus Broadband was available to respond to any
inquiries. Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller asked if the installation would be entirely
underground. Mr. Ward confirmed that all the facilities were underground, and
they were collaborating with Brunswick Electric to install them up to the Hwy
211 widening project. Alderman Davis asked if the entire City would have access
to Focus Broadband. Mr. Ward said they intend to serve every portion of
Southport at some point. If the agreement is approved, installing the fiber
optics will eventually give access to the entire City. Alderman Alt asked if
this would interfere with connecting with other WiFi connections. Mr. Ward said
that it would not. Alderman Alt asked what the timeline would be for the
project. Mr. Ward said he did not know and would get back to him.
 
         Alderman Allen Made a Motion to grant acceptance of a deed for a
permanent easement on the City-owned parcel #2210002707 as outlined in the
attached Easement Agreement, which has been reviewed by the City Attorney and,
in exchange, accept the $10,000 towards the partial installation of WiFi in the
downtown area and the City parks and seconded by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
 
         Alderman Carroll sought clarification regarding the $10,000 allocated
for the WiFi installation and its total cost. In response, Manager Therrien
said that the estimated cost for the entire project was $20,000. She suggested
that the installation could be done in phases, and the remaining cost could be
included in the next budget.
 
3.   Building Assessment Consultant Selection
 
         Mayor Hatem provided an overview of the City's Building Assessment. He
emphasized the importance of regular maintenance for municipal buildings.
 
         Public Services Director Tom Stanley said the city had sent requests
for qualifications, and HICAPS is the recommended company for the job. The best
part is that their price falls below the budgeted amount, leaving some funds
available in case any repairs are needed. The team is ready to begin the work
and would like to start with the Old City Hall/Courthouse.
 
         Alderman Carroll inquired about the number of Municipal buildings, and
Mayor Hatem confirmed that there were 18 in total, including restrooms.
Alderman Carroll made a Motion to approve a contract with HICAPS for Municipal
Building Services and authorize the Manager or Mayor to execute a contract and
seconded by Alderman Lombardi. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
 
4.   Regional Planning Organization Selection
 
         Mayor Hatem said the City has been presented with two options
regarding joining a regional planning organization responsible for
transportation study and development. The first option is the Grand Strand Area
Transportation Study Group (GSATS), and the second is continuing to work with
the Regional Planning Group the City is currently affiliated with through the
Cape Fear Council of Governments. Initially, the City was also suggested to
consider joining the Wilmington Metro Planning Organization, but they have
decided not to expand their membership. These organizations can help with
transportation funding applications, as well as planning studies for future
projects and technical reviews.    
 
         It was the consensus of the Board to continue with the Cape Fear
Regional Planning Group. Alderman Alt made a Motion to have the City of
Southport join with the Cape Fear RPO for the City’s future planning needs and
opportunities for transportation funding, seconded by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried. 
 
5.   Short-term Vacation Rental Ordinance-Board Decision
 
         City Planner Meehan said the proposed amendment aims to remove
references to the already- unenforced annual registration requirement in
multiple sections of the Ordinance relating to Short Term Vacation Rentals and
Homestays. Specifically, the request is to amend Section 2.6. I 'Annual Zoning
Permit for Homestays and Short-Term Vacation Rentals,' Section 3.6.G
'Homestay,' Section 3.8.II 'Short- Term Vacation Rentals,' and Article 8
'Definitions. ‘This amendment is intended to bring the Unified Development
Ordinance into full compliance with recent judicial decisions.
 
         Alderman Carroll expressed concerns about enforcing an ordinance
related to short-term rentals. He cited examples of non-compliant properties on
rental websites. To enforce regulations, Manager Therrien said they must
constantly monitor rental websites. Planner Meehan said that Code Enforcement
had already sent letters to non-compliant properties, and the penalty was
around $25. Alderman Allen added that the cost of violations increases with
non-compliance, and Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller mentioned a daily violation fee.
The Board would like to gather more information on software, violation fees,
and other ways to manage non-compliant rentals.
 
         Alderman Carroll made a Motion to approve the Land Use Consistency
Statement to remain consistent with current General Statutes and the Zoning
Text Amendment regarding short-term vacation Rentals and Homestays as presented
and seconded by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller.  Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
 
9.   Political Signs (moved to agenda item 6).
 
          Alderman Davis has expressed concerns about the current regulations
in the UDO that govern political signs. The current regulation limits the
number of political signs to one per property, which Alderman Davis believes is
unjust and violates the First Amendment. After consulting with several
constitutional attorneys and organizations, she has confirmed that this
regulation could be a potential violation of the Constitution. Alderman Davis
cited a Supreme Court decision to support her argument. She urges that the
Constitution be upheld and that this regulation not be enforced until it is
revised in the UDO.
 
         During the meeting, the City Attorney, Mr. Brady Herman, joined via
conference call to answer inquiries regarding the Ordinance. Upon reviewing it,
he believed that the Ordinance was not unconstitutional but was excessively
restrictive and needed to be addressed. He suggested that the revision of the
sign Ordinance, including political signs, should be postponed until after the
election and the start of the new year. He also added that if only one sign is
allowed, it could be deemed too restrictive by a court. Furthermore, he
proposed not enforcing the political sign Ordinance until the Planning Board
drafts and recommends a revised version for adoption approval from the
Aldermen. However, Alderman Davis respectfully disagreed.
 
         The Board discussed reviewing the revisions of the sign Ordinance but
decided to vote on not enforcing the use of multiple signs on private personal
property. Manager Therrien asked Mr. Herman if it was legal not to enforce a
part of the Ordinance with a Board vote, to which he replied that it was the
best temporary solution to rectify the situation.
 
         Alderman Carroll made a Motion to direct City Staff not to enforce the
portion of the political sign ordinance related to the number of signs on
private personal property and not in the right-of-way, seconded by Mayor Pro
Tem Mosteller. Aye: Alderman Carroll, Allen, Alt, Lombardi and Mosteller. Nay:
Alderman Davis. Motion Carried (5-1)
 
6.   Forensic Audit
 
         Alderman Alt proposed a plan to improve the policies and procedures
related to financial oversight. Mayor Pro Tem expressed her disagreement with
spending $10,000 on the forensic audit and suggested that the professional
staff should handle it instead. Alderman Alt clarified that the issue was not
with the project itself but rather the process of how the money is being
utilized. He suggested verifying that the money was being used correctly. Mayor
Pro Tem Mosteller recommended reviewing the finance director's report first.
Alderman Allen explained that a forensic audit is an examination to find
illegal financial records and activities. He mentioned that if there is no
evidence of financial misfeasance, then there is no need for a forensic audit.
Alderman Lombardi questioned the staff's capability to manage the project, and
Manager Therrien confirmed that the staff was capable. She expressed her belief
that there may have been mistakes in the Taylor's Field project. Alderman Davis
asked when the Howe Street project was completed, and Alderman Lombardi replied
that it was around 2018. Alderman Davis suggested asking the finance director
to conduct a financial audit on these projects to pinpoint any mistakes.
Manager Therrien explained that the finance director had only been in the
position for three weeks and was still learning the program. Manager Therrien
said that it would be difficult to take the Finance Director off of everything
he is doing now with the budget season approaching to specifically devote time
to the finances of these projects.
.         
         Mayor Hatem stressed the importance of monitoring the projects and
ensuring that the staff had the necessary support and resources.
 
         Alderman Alt proposed a motion to allocate $10,350 for a forensic
audit of the Howe St., Bay Street, and Taylor Field projects. However, there
was no second motion, and it was denied.
 
         Robert made a motion to direct the staff to research the subject
further and come back to the board with recommendations. Mayor Pro Tem
Mosteller seconded the motion.
   Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
 
7.   Creek Committee
 
          Alderman Alt requested the City Manager to take necessary measures
regarding public health warnings based on creek readings at Cottage, Bonnett’s,
and Price’s Creek. He proposed forming a workgroup comprising City staff,
County Public Health officials, and State water quality experts. This group
would be responsible for giving monthly updates to the Board of Aldermen. The
purpose behind this is to authorize the city manager to allow signs warning the
public about high bacteria levels. Mayor Pro Tem suggested reviewing all
policies, while Alderman Allen inquired whether the county and state had been
consulted.
 
         Manager Therrien informed the Board that she had reached out to both
the county and state officials. They provided some levels that are required to
trigger warnings, but it depends on the type of water and other factors. She
also informed the Board that the Staff is working with a lab in Colorado to
conduct a test. The County reverts to the State on such matters. Alderman Allen
further inquired about the composition of the committee. Alderman Alt clarified
that the intention was to have a policy that would allow testing and come back
to the Manager with a recommendation to move forward.
 
         The Board's consensus was to ask the city manager to appoint a group
or person to look into the situation and put signs up if needed. The Board
members also expressed a desire to converse with health departments to
determine if there's a need for warning signs.
 
         Alderman Alt made a Motion to allow the City Manager to decide who
should be on the Creek Committee, set up procedures for monitoring the Creeks
for bacteria, and take appropriate actions if needed. The Motion was seconded
by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller. Unanimous Vote; Motion carried.
 
 
 
 
 
8.   Affordable Housing
 
         Recently, Mayor Hatem met with neighboring mayors to discuss the issue
of affordable housing. Each municipality expressed concern about the lack of
workforce housing and possible solutions to address it. The Mayor emphasized
that a collaborative effort with county officials is necessary to find a viable
solution.
 
         In this regard, Alderman Alt has requested the City Manager to form a
workgroup comprising City staff, Brunswick County Habitat for Humanity, and
other non-profit organizations. The workgroup will provide the Board of
Aldermen with a list of options for both economic and non-economic incentives
that the City can adopt to promote workforce housing initiatives.
 
         Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller announced that a new Development Services
Director will soon be joining. Once the Director and the Planner arrive, they
will evaluate the planning process for affordable housing. Alderman Carroll
acknowledged that the issue is essential and appreciates the effort. However,
due to the average lot cost of around $30,000 in Southport, it would be
challenging to execute any plans for affordable housing in the area. Therefore,
he suggested looking into alternative options in Brunswick County, where
affordable lots are available. Alderman Carroll favors affordable housing and
supports the need to work with other entities with the resources to
accommodate.
 
         Mayor Hatem announced an upcoming meeting for the mayors seeking help
from the County Commissioners and NC State Officials. They aim to collaborate
to provide incentives for affordable housing for the workforce in Brunswick
County, the seventh fastest-growing county in the nation. Manager Therrien
suggested the Board send a letter to the County to generate support and
collaborate on a solution.
OCTOBER 11, 2023
Special Shoreline Stabilization Meeting Minutes
Board of Aldermen
Special Shoreline Stabilization Meeting Minutes
Indian Trail Meeting Hall, 113 W. Moore St.
October 11, 2023
9:00 A.M.
Present:
   Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor Pro Tem Karen Mosteller, Alderman Rich Alt,
Lowe Davis,       Robert Carroll, Tom Lombardi, and John Allen.
Absent:
None
Staff Present:
Bonnie Therrien, City Manager
Tanya Shannon, Deputy Clerk
Todd Coring, Police Chief
Bob Jarvis, City Engineer
Heather Hemphill, Parks & Rec. Director
Tom Stanley, Public Services Director
ChyAnn Ketchum, Community Relations/PIO
A.
   Call to Order: 9:01 A.M.
B.
   The Invocation was led by Reverend Alderman Lowe Davis.
C.
   Mayor Hatem led the Pledge of Allegiance.
Mayor Hatem Read the Ethics Statement:
“If any members know of any conflict of interest or the appearance of a
conflict of interest concerning matters on the agenda, please so state at this
time.”
Alderman Carroll requested a recusal from the Closed Session due to a potential
conflict of interest.
D.
   Alderman Carroll Made a Motion to approve the Agenda, and second By Alderman
Lombardi. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
E.   Agenda: Shoreline Stabilization
   Mayor Hatem made a comment regarding the Shoreline Stabilization project. He
highlighted that this was not the final meeting and provided a brief history of
the project. The project has received better engineers, better qualifications,
and new funding.
   Tom Jarvis, the project lead, gave an overview of the project. The Olsen
Group has been appointed as the engineers of the project. Chris Reed provided
an update on Olsen's progress, and the city attorney has been consulted on the
design concepts. Greg Finch from the Data Group Land Management Group was also
present.
   Mr. Reed gave a PowerPoint presentation, which was divided into three areas.
He discussed the sand section on the west and the private wall with the living
shoreline. He also talked about the site conditions and considerations, such as
the federal navigation channels, detailed hydrographic survey in 2023, and
cultural resources investigation in 2023. All these factors will be reviewed in
the regulatory planning process.
   Previously discussed project goals were also reviewed, and the pre-Hazel
Shoreline Condition of 1954 was presented. The project approach involves
developing the project scope based on the current conditions. Alternative
options are then created while keeping in mind the goals and constraints of the
city. Existing shoreline protection is also taken into account during the
development of these options.
   Previous alternatives that were proposed are also considered. Option one
involves creating a sandy beach, which is the most expensive. Alderman Alt
asked about the feasibility and cost of this option, and Mr. Reed said that
they would need to do further research.
   Option t involves the creation of a revetment in the center portion. Rich
suggested using larger rocks on top, but Chris disagreed and said that the
stones were too small and needed to be laid down on a bigger rock. Alderman
Davis asked about the appropriate size of the rocks, and Mr. Reed explained
that the rocks at the revetment needed to be oversized. Alderman Alt mentioned
that it was only a temporary solution, and he would look for a more permanent
one. Alderman Carroll inquired about the rock in front of the Garrison. Mr.
Reed provided some examples to help clarify. It's worth noting that the
revetment does not have a beach with rocks. Living shoreline in Southport
erodes with ships and structures in front so that grass can exist.
   The area in question consists of a sandy beach with breakwaters. The
shoreline has sand in the east and a revetment in the middle, while the east
side has a living shore. The project involves riparian rights, which must be
considered during the regulatory process. The priority areas have been
identified, and a solution needs to be chosen quickly due to the limited time
and funding available before 2026. Mr. Reed believes that obtaining permits
will take about a year, and a revetment would be the easier option to permit.
Decisions can be made faster if the revetment is chosen. However, Chris also
thinks that the cost of revetment would exceed the amount already allotted by
the city. Mr. Reed suggests obtaining a permit for the entire project or in
pieces.
   The state has been planning a project involving design and planning for
almost 30 years. The next step in the process will take 2-3 years. The most
significant challenge will be to select a plan and cost comparison,
particularly for the west portion. The living shoreline is not optimal. Mr.
Reed suggested responding to the current conditions, while Rich recommended
adding sand to the beach. The legal issue, however, is who owns the beach.
Alderman Lombardi inquired about the permit duration, which is five years for
CAMA and CORE, that do not overlap. Mr. Finch expressed concern about the
sand's impact on the yacht basin. Alderman Alt explained that the CORE and the
commercial aspect play a significant role in this. He also asked if the project
generates new sand, to which Mr. Finch replied that there is no sand coming to
Southport. During the meeting, it was discussed that the sand on the beach
comes from erosion. The board wanted to make some decisions regarding the
beach. Mr. Jarvis explained what they wanted to do to get things moving for
November. They needed direction from the board and input on phasing.
   Alderman Alt suggested using rip rap, starting downstream and moving up the
shore. Mr. Finch was unfamiliar with the term, but Alderman Alt explained that
it meant placing stones along the shore. Mr. Reed suggested that if they were
dealing with the beach, they should consider using other options. Alderman Alt
said that three options were more stable. He asked if they could do one at the
west before time runs out. Mr. Finch said that options one and three present
riparian issues, which means they involve the rights of property owners. He
said that everyone would benefit, but the law is unique on these issues. The
legal advice has been provided in the packet, but they needed more legal
counsel. Mr. Jarvis suggested prioritizing the east end of the west and giving
directions on which to start.
   Alderman Alt recommended a three-segment plan and suggested starting with
option two to obtain the necessary permit. He also advised considering the cost
of that particular section. On the other hand, Mr. Jarvis suggested analyzing
everything in depth before determining the cost. Alderman Alt pointed out that
the revetment would be less expensive. Alderman Davis enquired about the plan
and the materials that will be used. Mr. Reed responded that he had not
reviewed the exact plans yet and that there may be several options to consider.
Mr. Jarvis suggested that they prioritize urgent repairs and add any additional
necessary enhancements to the beach. As there is a time constraint, they must
start with completing the east end first. Riparian rights and property rights
need to be confirmed, which can be done through CAMA. Homeowners will still
have access to their docks despite the repairs. During the meeting, a
recommendation was made to start with the hardest part of the project, which
would require obtaining difficult-to-get permits. The suggestion was to begin
with the breakwaters and sand, which might be more expensive but would help
secure the necessary permits. There was also a discussion about riparian
rights, and it was explained that property owners start at the mean high land.
However, there was a risk that the property owners might lose the rights to
riparian access. It was suggested that the project team explore the possibility
of granting easements for those rights.
    The Board discussed the wooden wall and unanimously agreed it needed to be
constructed as soon as possible. However, there was some disagreement about the
height of the wall, and it was decided that more conversation was necessary on
the topic. Alderman Alt asked what would happen if one homeowner did not agree
to grant riparian rights. Mr. Creed was uncertain and suggested seeking legal
counsel to explore the matter further. Mayor Hatem asked the previously
established steering committee if they wanted to discuss the issue. Mr. Paul
Fisher asked about the scope, suggesting it should cover east to west. Manager
Therrien emphasized that a decision needs to be made, and Mr. Fisher added that
the entire area needs to be considered. Mr. Jarvis suggested evaluating from
the yacht basin area to Bonnets Creek and asked if the scope covers the whole
city. Mr. Jarvis said they would look into the future. Mayor Hatem suggested
considering the future to go into the scope.
   Mr. Tommy Harrelson, 202 W. Bay St, Mr. Paul Fisher, 101 River Dr., BJ
Gorman, 406 W. Brunswick St., and Frank Marchetti, 1523 Shephard Rd., were on
the steering committee. Mr. Harrelson thanked them for their efforts and
suggested it could be done sooner. He expressed that he was not blaming anyone
for the delay and appreciated that something was being done. Mr. Harrelson also
mentioned that they were told they could not use sand from the river to
replenish the beach and suggested using beach nourishment instead.
      Parks and Recreation Director Hemphill gave an update on the repair of
the street on East Bay. One section is eroding and compromising. Ms. Tara
McPherson with CAMA mentioned that there was an exception, and they did not
have to go through the permit process. She said they want to extend it, but it
does provide an exemption. Ms. Hemphill suggested joining the revetment and
then extending it and added that there was a portion that does not need a
permit. Ms. Hemphill replied that it would not affect the design. Mayor Hatem
was asked about Mr. Fisher’s question regarding dredging. Mr. Creed explained
that the process is expensive and requires dredging millions of yards of
material within a small space, making it even more costly. Mayor Pro Tem
Mosteller requested an opinion on the best approach and what factors should be
considered. Mr. Reed responded that option one was great, but the middle
section was the most critical factor to consider. He added that the living
shoreline to the west was the least problematic for now. The next step was to
determine the direction to take and then move on to the study phase. Bob Jarvis
suggested that the most important sections to look into were section one and
section two, which the Mayor agreed were the most vulnerable. Alderman Allen
concurred with Mr. Jarvis’s suggestion. Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller noted that the
legal aspect is a critical part of the project and should be addressed
immediately.
F.   Public Comments
   Deputy Clerk Tanya Shannon read a comment from Brian Stevens, a resident of
503 Cades Trail, expressing his concern about the absence of a paddle board and
kayak launch at the waterfront. In response, Mr. Jarvis stated that it was too
early in the process to know about a secondary launch. Alderman Allen suggested
that access to these activities could be provided at the beach side of Caswell
and Bay Streets. He also pointed out that there is already a launch available
at the Morningstar Marina, which he believes is preferable to use. Manager
Therrien assured the Board that she would provide a full report on the Kayak
Launch during the next regular meeting.
G.    Managers Comment:
None
H.    Mayor Comments:
Mayor Hatem thanked everyone and gave appreciation to Mr. Jarvis and the Olsen
Group Engineers for their commitment to the waterfront stabilization project.
I.    Board Comments:
None
J.   Closed Session
   Closed Session N.C.G.S. 143-318.11 (a) (5). To establish or to instruct the
public body's staff or negotiating agents concerning the position to be taken
by or on behalf of the public body in negotiating (i) the price and other
material terms of a contract or proposed contract for the acquisition of real
property by purchase, option, exchange, or lease; or (ii) the amount or
compensation and other material terms of an employment contract or proposed
employment contract.
Mayor Hatem asked for a Motion to enter into a Closed Session. Alderman Allen
made a Motion to enter into a Closed Session, and Alderman Lombardi seconded.
Before a Vote was confirmed, Alderman Davis read the General Statutes in regard
to the procedure for Closed Session. She referenced information from the UNC
School of Government on procedures that should be followed and disclosed.
Manager Therrien stated that the City Attorney should be present for
discussion, and the Closed Session would reconvene at the Regular Aldermen
Meeting on October 12th.
There were no further questions or comments. Mayor Hatem asked for a Motion to
Adjourn.
Motion to Adjourn by Alderman Allen and second by Alderman Lombardi. Unanimous
Vote; Motion Carried.
Adjournment:
10:44 AM
                        ____________________________________
                        Joseph P. Hatem, M.D., M.P.H., Mayor
 
__________________________________
Tanya Shannon, Deputy Clerk
OCTOBER 30, 2023
Special Meeting Minutes
BOARD OF ALDERMEN
INDIAN TRAIL MEETING HALL
SPECIAL CALLED MEETING
113 W. MOORE STREET
COMMUNITY BUILDING
October 30, 2023
PRESENT:
Mayor Joseph P. Hatem
Mayor Pro-tem Karen Mosteller, Alderman Lowe Davis, Alderman Tom Lombardi,
Alderman Rich Alt, Alderman Robert Carroll, and Alderman John Allen joined via
phone.
STAFF PRESENT:
Assistant City Manager/City Clerk Dorothy Dutton, Electrical Superintendent
Ellie Pittenger, Public Services Director Tom Stanley,
OTHERS PRESENT:
Paul Fisher, Roy Jones, Jason Thigpen, Brandon Rummage, Dan Werdel
Mayor Hatem called the meeting to order at 10:00 a.m.
Alderman Lowe Davis provided the invocation.
Mayor Hatem led everyone in the pledge of allegiance.
Alderman Carroll made a motion to approve the agenda that Alderman Lombardi
seconded. All ayes. Motion carried.
Mayor Hatem welcomed everyone to the meeting. He said that the purpose of the
meeting was to review the benefits and relationship Southport has with
ElectriCities and the North Carolina Eastern Municipal Power (NCEMPA). He
introduced Mr. Paul Fisher, who has served as a Commissioner on the NCEMPA for
many years. Mr. Fisher asked the CEO of ElectriCities, Roy Jones, to begin the
presentation. Mr. Jones said the plan was to start at a national level and move
down to the municipal level. He thanked the Board for having them and
introduced Dan Werdel, the Supervisor of Production. He explained three types
of electric utilities: Public Power Utilities, Rural Electric Cooperatives, and
Investor-Owned Utilities. He reviewed how each type is different. A public
power utility serves one out of seven customers. The City of Fayetteville is
the largest public power utility in North Carolina.
Alderman Alt asked some questions about the supply chain and where transformers
are made. Mr. Roy Jones stated that most are made in the US, but there has been
so much growth after the Coronavirus pandemic that there has been a
manufacturing shortage. Many manufacturers do not want to expand because now
they have work guaranteed for the next few years.
Mr. Jones and Mr. Werdel went through a timeline of electric service from the
Electric Act of 1965 to 1984, when ElectriCities was incorporated, and in 2015,
when the NCEMPA sold its electric generation assets to Duke Energy Progress.
Now, each municipality has a seat on the ElectriCities Board.
Jason Thigpen, Manager of Power Supply Operations with NCEMPA, addresses the
Board of Aldermen next. He said, "The interconnected grid for electricity is
one of the greatest inventions of all time." He explained that one hour of use
at the highest peak is equivalent to 63% of the bill. Alderman Alt asked how
they determine the peak hour. Mr. Jones said they have over ten years of
history to help predict. They consider the most extreme temperatures and time
of day when the most use occurs, and the entire system is considered, so the
peaks are not just for one municipality. A total of 800 people in Southport
participate in load management.
One facet to consider is the time of use rate, which might save more money
overall. Mr. Thigpen confirmed that the City could use both load management and
time of use rates. Mr. Jones said the two- way meters are already installed;
they must coordinate with Brunswick Electric. There was some discussion about
battery systems that can be used during peak hours so that there is more
savings. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller asked if all communities have this system and
how much that battery would cost. Mr. Jones stated they would help the City do
a cost analysis for the battery system versus the generator.
Alderman Carroll asked if there was a limit to how much solar a customer could
install in Southport, and Mr. Ellie Pittenger said that the City's program was
mirrored after the BEMC program, which was a 10kW max. Mr. Jones said there was
a difference between home generators and back-feeding the system. Mr. Werdel
said that, as a whole, the populations is heading towards a 21% renewable
future. There was some discussion about the systems being more active at night
because of the electric vehicles charging. There was some question about
whether the City is installing the correct infrastructure for the future. Mr.
Paul Fisher explained that BEMC monitors future infrastructure with their
engineers to help determine what might be needed. Solar capacity has increased
by 80% since 2013 because of creature comforts and necessities. Wholesale power
costs have declined since 2015. Next, there where discussions about strategic
planning, priorities, and the Billing history with the City of Southport.
All the electrical providers in the area share designated peaks. Wholesale
power costs have declined since 2015. NCEMPA absorbed small increases, so rates
didn't increase for their customers.
Mr. Paul Fisher thanked Mr. Jones and his team for coming to speak with the
Board of Aldermen. He encouraged more people to attend the meetings in Wilson,
NC.
Mayor Hatem thanked Mr. Fisher for thirty years of service and said the
information was wonderful. He also thanked Mr. Ellie Pittenger. Mayor Pro-tem
Karen Mosteller wanted to emphasize that ElectriCities is a real partner to the
City.
Alderman Carroll made a motion to adjourn the meeting, which Alderman Lombardi
seconded. All ayes. Motion carried.
      
                     _________________________________
                     Joseph P. Hatem, MD, MPH.
                     Mayor, City of Southport
_______________________________
Dorothy Dutton, Assistant City Manager
City Clerk
NOVEMBER 3, 2023
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
BOARD OF ALDERMEN
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
INDIAN TRAIL MEETING HALL
NOVEMBER 3, 2023
PRESENT:
Mayor Hatem, Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller, Aldermen Allen, Alt, Carroll, Davis, and
Lombardi
STAFF PRESENT:
Bonnie Therrien, City Manager
Dorothy Dutton, Asst City Manager/Clerk
Tom Stanley, Public Services Director
Heather Hemphill, Parks & Rec Director
Bob Jarvis, City Engineer
Tom Zilinek, City Engineer
OTHERS PRESENT:
Tish Hatem, City Resident
Pat Kirkman, City Resident
Harley Lemons, City Resident
Call to Order
Mayor Hatem called the meeting to order at 9:00 a.m.
Invocation
Alderman Lowe Davis provided the invocation.
Pledge of Allegiance
Mayor Hatem led everyone in reciting the Pledge of Allegiance.
Public Comment
Harley Lemons, resident of Navigator Way, in Southport, stated that he wanted
to speak to the Board as a citizen, not as a member of the Board of Adjustment.
He said that local developer Cameron Smith emailed the Planning Board, Board of
Adjustment and Board of Aldermen about a recurring situation with driveways in
residential neighborhoods. There used to be a provision in the UDO that
exempted residential properties from the driveway setback. When the UDO was
revised, that exemption was omitted. The Board of Adjustment asked the City
Planner to take it forward to the Planning Board as a text amendment. The
Planning Board tabled it. Mr. Lemons asked the Board not to enforce that part
of the ordinance until the Planning Board has made a decision.
Pat Kirkman, resident of Park Avenue, spoke to the Board about the historic
courthouse that the City owns. She was concerned because it has been sitting
there deteriorating for the last five years. She urged the Board to go look at
the condition of the building and pleaded for the maintenance of at least the
outside of the building. She added that it looks bad to visitors, residents,
and natives.
Approval of Agenda
Alderman Carroll made a motion to add Item L. Conflict of Interest to the
agenda. A motion to approve the agenda was made by Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller and
was seconded by Alderman Lombardi. All ayes. Motion carried.
Consent Agenda
The following items were approved together after a motion made by Alderman
Allen. The motion was seconded by Alderman Davis All ayes, Motion carried.
Set the Public Hearing for System Development Fee Study
Amendment to Animal Welfare Ordinance
Minutes from the Regular Board of Aldermen Meeting September 14, 2023
Minutes from the Closed Session September 14, 2023 (sealed envelope)
Special Recognition-None
Agenda
   1.
Allayna Dail presented to the Board the proposed brand guidelines and sign
plan. The proposed plan wouldn’t take effect all at once. When signs needed to
be replaced, the new guidelines would be used. The proposed signs would all use
the same colors (Hex codes) and the same font (Garamond). The City Hall signs
would be replaced first. The Community Relations Department with work with the
Fire Department and Historic Preservation Commission to make sure they are in
compliance with public safety and historic standards. Ms. Dail explained that
the City applied for an ElectriCities grant that, if awarded, would be used for
the signs. Allayna also explained the public engagement process would include
several options to see which is the most popular. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller asked
to include a variation with a darker colored font. Alderman Davis made a motion
to approve the concept, and Alderman Lombardi seconded the motion. All ayes.
Motion carried. 
   2.
City Manager Bonnie Therrien explained to the Board the need to attract great
candidates and have better retention. One possibility is to work (4) days a
week, (10) hours each day. The City offices would still be open (5) days a
week. The City of Shallotte follows that schedule from Memorial Day to Labor
Day. Alderman Lombardi asked if there would be coverage in every department.
Ms. Therrien said that there would definitely be coverage in every department,
and while there were a few different options, she doesn’t have a preference of
one schedule over any other. Alderman Allen said that it is important to have
flexibility, especially for childcare issues. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller said that
she has researched a few different schedules. She asked Ms. Therrien about
working a 35-36 hour work week. Ms. Therrien said she would be concerned about
a reduction in availability to the public. Instead, she suggests a pilot
program for a few months. Public Services, Fire/EMS, and the Police would not
be able to participate. Ms. Therrien said she would do some more research and
bring it back to City staff again in November.
   3.
Alderman Alt stated that on February 10, 2022, the Board voted to adopt a
Conflict of Interest Policy. He proposes there be a training session in
February of each year. He read through a list of topics and said that having
training early keeps things fresh in their minds. He also suggested election
training every July. Alderman Lombardi said he felt it was better to discuss
topics as they arise. Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller explained that the Board usually
does have training in January or February each year to discuss goals and
projects for the upcoming year. City Manager Therrien said she would speak to
the City Attorney to get ideas for the best way to hold workshops after the
first of the year.
Alderman Carroll referenced the Conflict of Interest Policy. He said he was
called out for not putting his conflict of interest in writing. During the
October 12th meeting, he acted out of frustration because he felt like his
character was being attacked. At that meeting, he accused Alderman Davis of
having a conflict of interest because of her relationship with Jason Robbins.
Alderman Davis had recused herself from appointing him to the Board of
Adjustment previously. Alderman Carroll apologized and said he acted rashly.
And he agreed with Alderman Alt that the Board adopted the policy and forgot
about it.
Alderman Davis added that at the time, she asked the Attorney Mike Isenberg,
whether she needed to recuse herself or not. Mike said she can’t be recused
because they are not family. She also said when the Board adopted the
Resolution in Support of the Equal Rights Amendment, she should’ve recused
herself because she is a woman. Alderman Alt said that it was a collective
issue for the whole Board. He said there should be no more finger-pointing; he
just wants to fix it. No one intended to do harm.
There was more discussion about how the City Manager is supportive of revising
policies and Board training. City Manager Therrien said that Staff was already
working on an orientation program for January.
I.)    Manager’s Report
Ms. Therrien stated that there are a lot of rumors going around about the
suspension of the City employees. She said that it is the responsibility of the
City Manager solely to handle personnel decisions. She finds a conclusion that
works best for the City. Once she is done with her review, she will notify the
Board first and then the public as allowed by law. If anyone has questions,
they should contact her, not other Department Heads or Staff.
J.)    Mayor’s Comments
Mayor Hatem reminded the public of the Wooden Boat Show the following day, and
the Maritime Art Show at the Frankline Square Gallery.
K.)   Board Comments
Alderman Lombardi said that the Beautification Committee had conducted some
interviews for members. He wanted to add that to the next meeting agenda. There
were no other Board comments.
L.)    Closed Session
After a motion by Alderman Lombardi and seconded by Alderman Allen, the Board
entered into Closed Session per N.C.G.S. 143-318.11 (a) (5). To establish, or
to instruct the public body's staff or negotiating agents concerning the
position to be taken by or on behalf of the public body in negotiating (i) the
price and other material terms of a contract or proposed contract for the
acquisition of real property by purchase, option, exchange, or lease; or (ii)
the amount of compensation and other material terms of an employment contract
or proposed employment contract. The Closed Session began at 9:53 a.m.
M.)
   After that item was concluded, they Board continued their Closed Session per
NCGS § 143-318.11 (6). The Board of Aldermen will meet in Closed Session to
consider the qualifications, competence, performance, character, fitness,
conditions of appointment, or conditions of initial employment of an individual
public officer or employee. Final action making an appointment or discharge or
removal by a public body having final authority for the appointment or
discharge, or removal shall be taken in an open meeting.
N.)
   The Regular Open meeting resumed at 10:35 a.m. after a motion and second by
Alderman Lombardi and Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller, respectively. The Board meeting
was adjourned at 10:35 a.m. after a motion by Alderman John Allen, and a second
by Alderman Lombardi. All ayes. Motion carried.
                        ______________________________________
                        Richard Alt, Mayor
                        City of Southport
________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
Assistant City Manager
NOVEMBER 9, 2023
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
City of Southport
Board of Aldermen Regular Meeting Minutes
Community Building, 223 E. Bay Street
November 9, 2023 6:00 P.M.
Present:
Mayor Joseph P. Hatem, Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller, Alderman Rich Alt, Robert
Carroll,    John Allen, Tom Lombardi, and Lowe Davis.
Absent:
None
Staff:
Manager Bonnie Therrien, Assistant City Manager/ Clerk Dorothy Dutton, Public
Information Office ChyAnn Ketchum, City Planner Mo Meehan, Derek Mabe, Code
Enforcement, Teresa Jones, Tax Collector, Tom Zilineck, City Engineer, Tom
Stanley, Public Services Director, Heather Hemphill Parks and Rec. Director
Charles Drew, Fire Chief Todd Coring, Todd Coring, Police Chief, and Tony
Burke, Police Major.
A.
Call to Order: Mayor Joseph P. Hatem called the meeting to order at 6.01 p.m.
B.
Reverend Gary Albertson with Trinity United Methodist Church gave the
Invocation.
C.
Mayor Hatem led the Pledge of Allegiance.
D.    Public Comment
   1.
   Ms. Rose Terry, who resides at 1026 N. Caswell Ave, has recently renovated
her home. She is not a newcomer to the area. She is wondering if anyone has
made a petition to close the alley. The reason is that the owner of 1030 N.
Caswell has placed several items in the alley, making it difficult to access
her property. She questions the code of ordinances and whether the RVs and
boats can block alleyways. She said this is a safety concern and wants to see
Code Enforcement address this issue.
   2.
    Ms. Pat Kirkman, 119 Park Avenue, came to the podium with cards that stated
six words. “Preserve and Protect our Historic Courthouse.
   3.
   Ms. Nate Lionardo is contracted to purchase a lot at Yaupon Drive Ext. She
said the unfinished roads are so rough that a 4-wheeler is needed to drive it,
and she has to go all the way around to prevent damage to her vehicle. As a
taxpayer, she believes the city is responsible for ensuring the roads are safe.
   4.
   Ms. Bonnie Bray, 515 Quartermaster Dr., congratulated the winners of the
Alderman race and acknowledged the close margin of three votes, which reflects
the community's 50/50 split. The Board of Elections did an excellent job
keeping everyone informed. I want to thank those who voted for me and Alderman
Allen and Lombardi for their leadership in the community. They have left a
significant legacy of contributions. Lastly, I have complete faith in Randy,
Kate, and Sydney. They have earned every penny they made and are great public
servants."
   5.
   Mr. Jack Gordon, who resides at 5920 Dutchman Creek Rd., expressed his
concern regarding the condition of the roads in the area. Although the roads on
Howe Street have been cleaned up and repaired, many other roads still require
attention. Mr. Gordon pointed out that these roads pose a significant challenge
and risk for rescue vehicles to travel on. He urged the Board to take more
action to repair the roadways and make them safer.
   6.
   Mr. Charles Drew, 112 Park Ave: "As a citizen of the City, he said he owns a
lot on Yaupon Drive and has concerns about this and the area's emergency
access. It needs immediate attention as it is currently in terrible condition.
I fully support any repairs or improvements to make this area more accessible
and safer."
   7.
   Mr. David Miller at 404 Trout Lily Lane stated that City Manager Therrien
has been doing an excellent job for the City. He appreciated her efforts to
hold people accountable.
   8.
    Ms. Dutton read a statement from Paul Aswell, President of the Landing of
Southport. He has concerns about the setback requirements for driveways and
requests the immediate suspension of enforcement until a full Review of the
Ordinance can be amended.
      Mayor Hatem Read the Consistency Statement.
      “If any members know of any conflict of interest or the appearance of a
conflict of interest
             concerning matters on the agenda, please so state at this time.”
E.   Approval of the Agenda:
   Alderman Lombardi made a Motion to approve the agenda with the amendment to
remove items J (9) Community Building Deck Project and J (12) Purchase of 1105
N. Howe Street, seconded by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller. Unanimous Vote; Motion
Carried.
   Alderman Davis Made a Motion to discuss swearing in the newly elected
members at the next Board Meeting. Second by Alderman Alt. Unanimous Vote;
Motion Carried. Mayor Hatem said he had discussed with the City Manager the
potential to have the ceremony at the 14th evening meeting. It would be at the
pleasure of the Board to decide. Discussion on the next meeting has been added
to the agenda.
F.   Public Hearing: Minimum Housing Ordinance Amendment Public Hearing
   Mayor Hatem opened the public hearing, where Ms. Dutton presented an
overview of the proposed amendment. Alderman Davis asked about the number of
derelict buildings that are currently occupied. The City's Code Enforcement
contractor, Derek Mabe, approached the podium to respond. He clarified that
none of the buildings are habitable and do not have any occupants. These homes
have been abandoned, and approximately 15 are in violation and need
demolishment, but no one is occupying them. Alderman Alt questioned how the
owners could still own the property without paying the taxes. Alderman Carroll
and Manager Therrien stated that the owners often pay the taxes but not for the
maintenance of the property. The best solution is for the City to demolish the
structure and put a lien on the property so that the City can get reimbursed
for services before the property is sold. Alderman Carroll questioned how many
of these run-down homes are in the Historic District. Mr. Mabe said he would
find out and bring that information back to the Board.
G.   Approval of the Consent Agenda
Disposition of Surplus Police Vehicle-Resolution
Minutes of the Regular Board of Aldermen Meeting October 5, 2023
Minutes of the Board of Aldermen Closed Session October 5, 2023
Minutes of the Board of Aldermen Special Meeting October 11, 2023
   Alderman Allen made a Motion to approve the Consent Agenda, seconded by
Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
H.   Presentations:
   1.    Final Presentation-Build Out Study
   Mr. Wes MacLeod, Services Director of the Cape Fear Council of Governments,
presented the Build Out Study. Population has doubled in the past 20 years,
with an increase of 70,000 people since 2000 in Brunswick County. The median
age demographic is 56. Southport has a median age of 63, and Sunset Beach is
the eldest at 68. Ages 20-34 make up only about 7%. Southport is projected to
gain five people monthly for the next five years. During summer, seasonal
residents and visitors populate close to 10,000. 1,700 acres are developed, and
2,220 are undeveloped, mainly on the outskirts of the City and dedicated to
single-family development: no questions or comments. Mr. Macleod thanked the
Board.
   2.   Short-Term Rental Vacations Presentation
   Ms. Meehan, Ms. Dutton, and Ms. Jones reviewed some updates on the process
for enforcement, purchasing software, and the collection of taxes. Ms. Meehan
explained that the procedure and process for registration and enforcement are
up to date. Ms. Jones said that the City is currently levied at 3% of gross
receipts on occupancy tax. She said approximately 50 individual properties are
reporting. She said it is a challenge to determine the exact locations of these
rental properties because they are paid in a lump sum with no detailed report
or if the rental is registered and in conformity. There could be many potential
undocumented and unpaid fees.
   Ms. Dutton explained two software programs that would monitor compliance,
such as sending enforcement letters and increasing efficiency by adding
evidence to enforce communications. Of the two options reviewed, the staff
review recommended Granicus Software as a more formidable tool for Southport
for an annual cost proposal of $9,840.
   Ms. Dutton confirmed that the software has a high success rate and increases
tax revenue. If approved, it can be implemented immediately and is billed
annually. It was agreed to revisit this matter in December for a final
decision.
I.    Special Recognition 
   Mayor Hatem read a proclamation honoring Veteran's Day.
   Proclamation of Appreciation and Presentation by Mayor Hatem on Colonel Paul
Fisher’s 30-year service to the City.
J.   Agenda
   1.   Resignation of Mr. Paul Fisher, Representative for ElectriCities.
   NCEMPA Commissioner will be resigning on December 1, 2023. Mayor Hatem read
his resignation letter and thanked him for his service.
   2.   Contract for Sanitary Sewer Find It Fix It Project
   Mr. Zilineck discussed improvements to the sewer system and a follow-up
project to the Infiltration and Inflow Study. The project aims to eliminate
extraneous flows found during the I & I project and includes the design of
corrections for system deficiencies and a secondary sewer force main. The
project has a tight schedule and a deadline to utilize state funds. W.K.
Dickson's bid came in at $1,013,500.00.
   Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller Made a Motion to approve the contract with WK
Dickson for the Sanitary Sewer Find It Fix Project and authorize the City
Manager to sign the contract. Second by Alderman Davis. Unanimous Vote; Motion
Carried.
   3.   Yacht Basin Dredging Contract Extension (Jamie Pratt, TI Coastal)
   TI Coastal has been assisting the City with surveying, permitting, and other
services related to dredging the USACE channel and adjacent areas to the
Southport Yacht Basin. They have completed hydrographic surveys, taken sediment
samples, coordinated with the Audubon Society, and engaged in discussions with
the USACE. Upcoming work includes applying for project funding, performing a
shellfish survey, creating long-term use plans, finalizing dredging plans and
cost estimates, and continuing follow-up with permitting agencies. The biggest
problem currently is finding a disposal site for the spoils. He said the first
site was not suitable, and now they are looking at the 2nd Bridge going to Oak
Island with an available pond source. The contract will allow them to continue
to coordinate permitting. The state will match every dollar the City spends on
dredging with $3.00. The expenditures will be less with the grants. Alderman
Alt asked what is the approximate cost of the requested extension. Mr. Pratt
said $30k. Alderman Carroll confirmed that the entire cost for the dredging
construction will be roughly $2M, which includes transporting the spoils.
   Alderman Allen made a Motion to approve the Contract with TI Coastal
Services, authorize the City Manager to sign the contract for dredging the
Yacht Basin and continue with the state funding application and construction
for the Yacht Basin at a cost not to exceed $30,000 and second by Mayor Pro Tem
Mosteller. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried. 
   4.   Call for a Public Hearing for a Zoning Map Amendment of a Tract of Land
on Jabbertown Road
   Planner Meehan explained that Gandy, LLC for JC Rentals LLC, is requesting a
zoning change from LI to MH on a portion of a .66-acre parcel of land located
at 558 Jabbertown Road that is currently zoned MH. The property is located on
Jabbertown Road, adjacent to the Cottages at Prices Creek and Harbor Ridge
mobile home park. The property is located within the Extraterritorial
Jurisdiction. The Planning Board recommended approval of the proposed zoning
map amendment. A Zoning Map Amendment legislates that a Public Hearing must be
called before a decision.
   Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller made a Motion to call a public hearing at the
December 14, 2023, Regular Board meeting for the Zoning Map Amendment of a
tract of land on Jabbertown Road and seconded by Alderman Lombardi. Unanimous
Vote; Motion Carried.
   5.   Contract with Stewart Consulting for Comp Plan and Selection of
Steering Committee
   City Planner Meehan gave an overview of the Comprehensive Plan project. City
staff recommends appointing the Planning Board as the official Steering
Committee. The Board approved the project for $100,000, and the contract is for
$103,000 with a contingency of $6,500. Funding is already set aside, so there's
no need to amend the budget. Depending on the format, additional meetings will
cost $400-$5,000. Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller clarified that the contingency is
only there if needed. Ms. Meehan said that was correct.
      1.   Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller made a Motion for the contract with Stewart
Inc. for $109,500    for the CAMA Certified Comprehensive Land Use Plan
seconded by Alderman Carroll. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
      2.   Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller made a Motion to authorize the City Manager
to execute the contract with Stewart, seconded by Alderman Lombardi. Unanimous
Vote; Motion Carried. 
      3.    Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller made a Motion to appoint the Planning Board
as the Steering    Committee for the Comprehensive Plan project seconded by
Alderman Lombardi.
      Alderman Alt proposed the idea of a Steering Committee selection. He
believed that the committee should have a broader representation from the
community and not just members of the Planning Board. Alderman Alt suggested
including various community members to create a balanced array of citizens.
However, according to the UDO, Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller pointed out that the
Planning Board is responsible for the Steering Committee. She also emphasized
that the Steering Committee would engage the community by holding several
meetings with stakeholders and public input. Ms. Meehan agreed and reiterated
the importance of community involvement in providing input. Alderman Alt still
felt that the Steering Committee controlled the narrative, and he recommended
selecting a representative from the Planning Board alongside a broader base of
citizens. Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller reassured the public that the Steering
Committee would engage with them by holding open dialogues at multiple meetings
and not just during comment periods. Alderman Alt requested the vote continue
and allow the majority to rule.
      The motion was restated. Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller made a Motion to appoint
the Planning Board as the Steering Committee for the Comprehensive Plan project
seconded by Alderman Lombardi. Aye: Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller, Alderman Lombardi,
Carroll, Allen and Davis. Nay: Alderman Alt. Motion Carried 5-1.
   6.   Request for Nonenforcement of Driveway Standards
   After a variance hearing on driveway standards, the Board of Adjustment
requested a text amendment to the Planning Board. The applicant requested
exceptions for driveway width and location. Staff finds the request reasonable
due to changes necessary at the permitting stage. Staff asked for non-
enforcement of Section 3.12.B. for single and two-family residences until a
final decision by the Board of Aldermen is made on a text amendment to this
section of the UDO currently being considered by the Planning Board.
   Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller made a Motion for nonenforcement of Section 3.12.B.
Driveways for single and two-family residences until a final decision by the
Board of Aldermen is made for a text amendment to this section of the UDO and
seconded by Alderman Lombardi. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
   7.   Budget Ordinance Amendment for Fire Mitigation Fee Schedule
   Chief Drew explained that the Fire Department could charge two types of
fees: Permit (Operation) Fees and Mitigation (Fire Response) Fees. The
Mitigation Rates offset the cost of emergency services outside of structural
fires. However, these Mitigation Rates have not been updated in the past nine
years. As a result, the Southport Fire Department recommends billing the
Mitigation (Fire Response) rates for those living outside the City limits. This
requires the adoption of a Budget Ordinance Amendment to add this section to
the existing fee schedule.
   The Mitigation (Fire Response) Rate will increase by 1.5% annually or based
on the annual percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index. Rate adjustments
will occur when the new budgets are adopted to keep the Fire Department's cost
recovery program in conformity with increasing operating expenses.
   Alderman Alt asked how the proposed fees compare to other areas. Chief Drew
said they're comparable. Alderman Alt was worried about inflation. Chief Drew
explained that car insurance usually pays for car accident fees, and they don't
pursue collections; if fees can't be delivered, they will be dropped. Manager
Therrien stated that the proposed fees will be brought to the budget workshops
for more detailed discussion.
   Alderman Carroll made a Motion to adopt the proposed budget amendment to the
FY 23- 24 year. And the Mitigation (Fire Response) fee schedule, as presented
and seconded by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
   8.   Parks and Recreation Ordinance Amendment
   Mayor Burke explained that a few grammatical errors have been corrected. He
said they regrouped the parks by including the Garrison Lawn in the ordinance,
which will have the same restrictions and guidelines as the waterfront park and
no closure. He said all the other parks have been regrouped and put together
and recommended closing them at 9 o’clock. He said that is consistent with
other closure times with additional facilities such as the public restrooms.
Major Burke also requested on behalf of Parks and Rec. Director Hemphill to
restrict metal detecting, digging, and disturbing grass lawns and vegetation on
the Garrison Lawn.
   Alderman Carroll made a Motion to approve the amendment to the City of
Southport Code of Ordinances Chapter 12: Parks and Recreation, as presented and
seconded by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
   9.    Community Building Deck Project – (Removed from the agenda)
   10.    Yaupon Drive Extension Paving Project
   Some concerned citizens informed Manager Therrien about a topic she was
unaware of. The issue pertained to a storm drainage system brought up in
previous board meetings but was never approved for implementation, possibly due
to its high cost. Alderman Alt asked about the difference between this road,
Hankinsville Rd., and the dirt road off Atlantic Ave. Mr. Stanley clarified
that Hankinsville Rd. is not a city road. There are three unimproved/unpaved
roads: Yaupon Extension Drive, a small block off Atlantic Ave. in between E.
11th Street and Stewart Ave., and a portion of W. 11th Street where the
pavement extends and ends around 9th Street, partly in the city limits but
considered an unimproved road.
   Alderman Alt asked what that price would look like if a gravel road would be
made compared to engineering the improvements. He said he asked because this
project is estimated at $58M, while there are 40 other projects to fund. He
wondered if the road could be graveled or filled with dirt to improve the road
temporarily and how significantly this would reduce the cost. Mr. Stanley said
these rough estimates do include the utilities. Mr. Stanley explains that any
water/sewer expansion would be the developer's responsibility to pay. Alderman
Carroll asked what the cost difference would be if it were graveled or filled.
Manager Therrien said she wanted to bring this to the attention of the Board
and then get a recommendation on how to move forward so that it can be reviewed
for the next budget and that there will need to be cost estimates on what
gravel or dirt cost difference would be. Alderman Carroll said he feels like
this is a safety issue and something should be done. Mr. Stanley said he
estimates that filling and grading would cost roughly $300,000-$400,000 without
storm drainage, utilities, and paving.
   Alderman Davis asked about the official designation of Yaupon Drive as a
City road. Mr. Stanley checked the records but found no evidence of its
dedication. However, it is listed on the Powell Bill Road directory. Alderman
Davis expressed concern that this could set a bad precedent since other
privately owned roads are in poor condition, and taxpayers are upset. Mayor Pro
Tem Mosteller agreed and called for an evaluation to be carried out to provide
confirmed estimates on alternatives. Attorney Herman stated that if Yaupon
Drive is a city road, it must meet the city's standards.   It was the consensus
of the Board to research the history of Yaupon Drive Extension and determine if
it is a city road.
   11.   Contract for Parking Study-Walker Consultants
   Ms. Dutton informed the Board that Walker Consulting will conduct the
Parking Study. Their revised proposal and narrowed scope meet the budget of
$50,000. The study will assess current parking and identify issues. Then,
recommendations will be made to add traditional parking or parking structures.
The Board can pick the revised or original proposal. Voting for the original
proposal of $75,000 will need an amendment from the Capital Project account.
   Alderman Allen made a Motion to Approve the revised contract with Walker
Consultants for the Parking Study at $50,000 so that work can begin in
coordination with the Comprehensive Plan work and authorize the City Manager to
execute the contract seconded by Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller. Unanimous Vote;
Motion Carried.
   12.    Purchase of 1105 N. Howe Street (removed from agenda)
   13.   City Clerk Position
   Manager Therrien stated that Dorothy Dutton is currently the Assistant City
Manager and City Clerk. With two extensive Board Meetings a month and many
projects, the dual positions have become challenging. She recommended
consideration for advertising and accepting applications for a City Clerk
position. Alderman Allen made a Motion to approve hiring a full-time City
Clerk, seconded by Alderman Lombardi. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
   14.
   There was discussion on canceling the December 7th Board of Aldermen to
accommodate the ceremony of Board Members and allow Staff to prepare for the
Meeting after the Holiday and then resume the regular schedule. Alderman Davis
felt that with all the business happening, both meetings are necessary and
would like to keep both meetings as scheduled. Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller made a
Motion to cancel the December 7th Regular Board of Aldermen Meeting and proceed
with the December 14th Meeting, seconded by Alderman Allen. Aye; Mayor Pro Tem
Mosteller, Alderman Allen, Carroll, Alt, and Lombardi. Nay: Alderman Davis.
Motion Carried 5-1.
K.    Committee Reports
   Alderman Carroll announced that the Historic Preservation Commission will
have a Special Public Input Meeting on November 13th.
   Alderman Lombardi said that the Beautification Committee has refurbished and
changed all the bulbs in the wreaths.
   Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller reminded everyone of the Planning Board Meeting on
November 16th.
L.    Manager’s Report
   The Public Services Department Symposium will be on November 13th at 2
o’clock. City Hall will be closed on Veterans’ Day. She gave recognition to the
Staff’s years of service.
M.    Mayor’s Comments
   Mayor Hatem reminded everyone of Veteran’s Day on November 11th and thanked
the Veterans. He reminded everyone that November 19th was President Lincoln’s
Anniversary of the Gettysburg Address, and November 22nd, the assassination of
John F. Kennedy, and a sad day for America and the World. Mayor Hatem wished
everyone a Happy Thanksgiving. He reminded everyone to join the Downtown
Christmas lighting on December 1st.
N.    Staff Reports in agenda packets.
O.   Board Comments
   Alderman Allen wished everyone a Happy and Safe Thanksgiving.
   Alderman Carroll read his comment in regard to the election cycle and the
importance of meeting the expectations as Public Servants and ensuring
transparency and fiscal responsibility. As such, he recommended removing Board
stipends to symbolize the unwavering dedication to the well-being of Southport
and redirecting these funds to benefit other constituents.
   Alderman Davis agreed with Alderman Carroll’s statement, and she said she
had brought this up before. She said the duties are a labor of love and hard
work and would like to pursue this discussion more and add it to the next
agenda.
   Alderman Lombardi congratulated all the candidates. He said he has been
proud to have served as an Aldermen for the past four years. He said many good
things have been happening and hoped they would continue.
P.    Closed Session N.C.G.S. 143-318.11 (a) (5).
   To establish or to instruct the public body's staff or negotiating agents
concerning the position to be taken by or on behalf of the public body in
negotiating (i) the price and other material terms of a contract or proposed
contract for the acquisition of real property by purchase, option, exchange, or
lease; or (ii) the amount of compensation and other material terms of an
employment contract or proposed employment contract.
   Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller made a Motion to go into Closed Session and, was
seconded by Alderman Lombardi. Aye: Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller, Alderman Allen,
Lombardi, Alt, and Davis. Nay: Aldreman Carroll. Motion Carried 5-1. 8:53 p.m.
   Mayor Pro Tem Mosteller made a Motion to return to Open Session seconded by
Alderman Davis. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
   Mayor Hatem thanked everyone for their attendance and requested a motion to
adjourn. Alderman Lombardi made a Motion to adjourn, seconded by Alderman
Carroll. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
Adjournment 9:07 p.m.
                        ______________________________________
                        Richard Alt, Mayor
                        City of Southport
 
__________________________________
Deputy Clerk, Tanya Shannon
DECEMBER 14, 2023
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
BOARD OF ALDERMEN
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
COMMUNITY BUILDING
DECEMBER 14, 2023
PRESENT:
Mayor Hatem, Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller, Aldermen Allen, Alt, Carroll, Davis, and
Lombardi, and City Attorney Brady Herman
STAFF PRESENT:
Bonnie Therrien, City Manager         Dorothy Dutton, Asst City Manager/City
Clerk
Todd Coring, Police Chief            Charles Drew, Fire Chief
Tom Stanley, Public Services Director      Heather Hemphill, Parks and Rec
Director
Bob Jarvis, City Engineer            Tom Zilinek, City Engineer
Mo Meehan, City Planner            Kiley Barefoot, Building Inspector
OTHERS PRESENT:
Tish Hatem, Citizen        Pat Kirkman, Citizen     Paula Ries, Citizen
Harley Lemons, Citizen     Woody Wilson, Citizen    Kay Ross, Citizen
Norfrette Bellamy, Citizen Cheryl Daniel, Citizen   Jack Rudnick, Citizen
Sue Hodgin, Citizen        Karen Rife, Citizen      Jeff Korte, Citizen
Carmel Gondek, Citizen     Alex Shoulowsky, Citizen Eric Lappala, Citizen
Lillian Dillahunt, Citizen Francesca Slaughter,     Shirley Sullivan, Citizen
                           Citizen
Charlie Miller, NC State   Honorable Judge Jason    Rebecca Kelley and Family
Representative             Disbrow
Marc Spencer and Family    Jason Robbins            Mrs. Rich Alt
 
Call to Order
Mayor Hatem called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
Invocation
Mayor Hatem read the poem "A Christmas Prayer" by Robert Louis Stevenson.
Pledge of Allegiance
Mayor Hatem led everyone in reciting the Pledge of Allegiance.
Mayor Hatem explained the activities of his last day in office. He and Tish
Hatem visited Southport Elementary School to deliver a check from the ABC
Store. They also visited five local businesses to celebrate their longevity:
Famous Subs, Provision Company, Mr. P's, Bob's EZ Way, and the Christmas House.
Public Comment
Woody Wilson, a resident of Southport, stated that he had never seen an
election that was so close. He appreciates those who ran in the election and
proved the system works. He recommends the nomination of Ms. Bonnie Bray for
the remaining seat. He urged the Board to unanimously recommend Ms. Bray
because she received the next highest votes; she was the people's choice.
Additionally, she has already demonstrated a willingness to serve the
community.
Norfrette Bellamy, resident of Jabbertown Road, explained that someone has been
working on Jabbertown Road, like surveying for a sewer line. Jabbertown Road is
not a part of the City limits, and the residents don't want to be. She
recommends they find another way to install the sewer if it is for another area
or subdivision.
Kay Ross, a resident of 5205 White Ibis Court, said she wants to echo the words
of Mr. Wilson and would like to suggest that the highest vote count in Ward 2
be named as the candidate for the vacant Alderman seat. She said it is being
brought forth in the spirit of a democratic process, and she feels comfortable
recommending Bonnie Bray.
Paula Ries said she would like to recommend that the Board select Bonnie Bray
to fill the vacancy. She would be a great representative for Southport.
Cheryl Daniel and some of the Friends of Franklin Square Park explained that
they are there to protect Franklin Square Park. There are (710) people on the
Facebook page who support their cause. They are excited to hear Mr. Everett's
report and hope the Board will vote for the Manager's budget amendment to save
the park. Relocation of many events is desired. They are also seeking other
opportunities to help fund the park's restoration.
Jack Rudnick, a resident of 616 Arabella Lane, said he supports Bonnie Bray.
She has her head and head in the game. She was also the next person who
would've been elected.
Sue Hodgin, a resident at 608 Cottage Point Way, explained that her comments
are hers only. She is speaking as a resident and not as part of the Planning
Board. She stated that there was no real win for Southport in this election.
Whoever wins will have to make amends to over half the citizens of Southport.
Our Town is divided more now than it has ever been before. She hopes that
everyone can sense the change in Southport. We moved here or grew up here for
its charm. As a citizen, Sue thanks John Allen, Tom Lombardi, and Dr. Hatem.
Thanks to John for his guidance to the Planning Board. Thanks to Tom for his
advice and expertise on road projects and infrastructure. He is thoughtful and
wise. Thanks to Mr. Mayor Hatem for his compassion. He was definitely in the
right place at the right time. No one else could have been the Mayor during the
pandemic. These three gentlemen helped make the big decisions that the City
needed. Thanks for their common sense. Thank you for being on the side of
Southport. They will all be missed, although people might not see it now. Merry
Christmas to everyone.
Karen Rife, a resident of 5920 Dutchman Creek Road, addressed the new Board and
stated that Southport has become a City divided. She added that it will be up
to the Board to listen with an open mind to preserve Southport's history and
charm. Citizens are researching more through state websites and the NC League
of Municipalities. There are complicated state statutes that people may not
like, but the Board is bound to follow. She urged the public to serve on a
committee or at least attend the various meetings.
Jeff Korte, resident of Ward 2, said he was speaking in favor of the Board
nominating Bonnie Bray to the vacant seat. He was quite impressed with her
responses during the candidate forum. She has the City's best interest at
heart. The residents have already spoken. She ran a good campaign and went door
to door. By voting on Bonnie tonight, the Board would listen to the people.
Carmel Gondek, a resident at 111 Highland Park Avenue, thanked everyone who
serves the community. She spoke in support of Bonnie Bray. She was deeply
impressed by Bonnie's community and societal contributions. She has served on
Up Your Arts and the Beautification Committee. Enthusiasm and compassion are
what she demonstrates.
Alex Shovlowsky, who resides at 618 McKenzie Circle, thanked the Board for all
the hard work they do. He added that he has known Bonnie Bray for about
thirteen years, and they are neighbors. She has served on many civic
organizations and is a go-getter.
Eric Lappala, at 215 W. Moore St, said he feels the same about Bonnie Bray. He
has known her for 14-15 years. She and her husband are some of the most
dedicated public servants in the area. She has local government experience and
knows how to get things done.
Lillian Dillahunt, resident of 140 Stewart Avenue, has lived in Southport for
twelve years. She has known Bonnie Bray for ten of those. Bonnie Bray has
impressed her as someone who is always honest and listens. She always worked
very hard for Southport. She urged the Board to consider Bonnie Bray for
Alderman.
Francesca Slaughter, who resides at 6272 Cattail Court, said she wants to
remind everyone that the candidates that the public elected were very upfront
about their stance on Conditional Zoning. The candidates that did not get
elected felt differently than the voters.
Shirley Sullivan, a resident of 5002 Indigo Seaward Court, asked a question
about the Consent Agenda.
Next, the Assistant City Manager/City Clerk, Dorrie Dutton, read all the
comments emailed before the meeting. The comments were from Cindy Hamblin,
Linda Pukenas, Nate Limardo, and Dawn Drabble.
Mayor Hatem recited the Ethics Statement.
Approval of Agenda
Mayor Hatem wanted to add an item to the Special Recognition- a presentation to
State Representative Charlie Miller and Senator Rabon. Alderman Davis motioned
to move the dredging resolution to the regular agenda and to add the special
presentation. Alderman Alt seconded—all ayes. Motion carried.
Consent Agenda
City Manager Bonnie Therrien explained the items on the Consent Agenda. The No
Tax Debt Certification does with the Resolution in Support of Seeking Grant
Funding for the Dredging Project. Alderman Lombardi explained the nomination
for the Beautification Committee. Alderman Carroll made a motion to approve the
Consent Agenda. Alderman Davis seconded the motion—all ayes. Motion carried.
Resolution in Support of Seeking the Dredging Grant
Approval of the No Overdue Tax Debt Certification for the Dredging Grant
Easement for Kayak Launch
Minutes of the Regular Board of Aldermen Meeting October 12, 2023
Minutes of the Board of Aldermen Closed Session October 12, 2023 (sealed)
Minutes of the Special Board of Aldermen Meeting (ElectriCities) October 30,
2023
Acceptance of Roads in Southport Crossings-Southport Crossings Way, Marino Run,
and Crossings Court
Appointment of Beautification Member to Complete Term
Special Recognition
   1.   Mayor Hatem read a Proclamation of Gratitude from Representative
Charles Miller and Senator Bill Rabon.
   2.   Mayor Pro-tem Mosteller spoke in honor of the outgoing Board members.
She said Alderman Tom Lombardi is always the first person to ask how he can
help. He stays active. His dedication should be a blueprint for them all. Tom
Lombardi said that serving over the last few years has been a pleasure. As a
Board, they have made progress on many projects. Merry Christmas and Happy New
Year.
   3.   Alderman Mosteller reminded everyone that John Allen had served as the
City Planner and as a member of the Planning Board before he became an
Alderman. He has a lifetime of public service, and we are thankful for his
service. John Allen thanked the citizens for the opportunity to serve. He is
proud of all they have accomplished during the last four years. There are forty
projects at various stages of completion. He thanked Senator Rabon and
Representative Miller for their help. The Board has accomplished more than he
ever thought possible.
   4.   Next, Alderman Mosteller addressed Mayor Hatem. She said it was her
honor to serve with Joe Pat Hatem for the last four years. He has forty years
of experience as a physician. He also obtained a Master of Public Health. It
was the right place at the right time. His leadership helped keep the community
safer during the pandemic. Mayor Hatem addressed the public. He said that he
enjoyed being the Mayor and serving the people of Southport. He will continue
serving the people. One project he didn't accomplish was restoring the weather
tower. They have raised about $40,000 so far. He will continue to work on this
project. With that in mind, he took the oath as the Mayor of the City of
Southport. This Board has brought forward the largest infrastructure projects.
He is grateful for the employees. Thanks to the Board and the beautiful Tish
Hatem. Alderman Mosteller expressed her gratitude for serving alongside Joe Pat
Hatem, John Allen, and Tom Lombardi.
Alderman Alt motioned for the Board of Aldermen to accept his resignation as an
Alderman. Alderman Carroll seconded the motion—all ayes. Motion carried.
There was a brief break while the outgoing Board members left the Community
Building.
ChyAnn Ketchum announced that everyone should take their seats.
H)    Swearing-In of New Board Members
   1.   The Honorable Judge Jason Disbrow performed the Oath of Office for
Mayor Rich Alt while his wife held the Bible.
   2.   The Honorable Judge Jason Disbrow performed the Oath of Office for
Alderman Lowe Davis.
   3.   NC State Representative Charlie Miller performed the Oath of Office for
Alderman Rebecca Kelley while her husband and children held the Bible and stood
by her side.
   4.   NC State Representative Charlie Miller performed the Oath of Office for
Alderman Marc Spencer while his wife Renee and children held the Bible and
stood by his side.
Mayor Alt read the Conflict of Interest Statement. He announced a 10-minute
break and recessed the meeting at 7:37 p.m.
Mayor Alt called the meeting back to order at 7:47 p.m. and thanked everyone
for attending the meeting.
I)   Board Nominations
   1.   Alderman Davis explained that she has heard about potential candidates
from many people over the last few days. She has given it a lot of thought. She
has someone in mind who is a registered voter and a resident of Ward 2. She is
nominating Frank Lai. He has owned a nearby property for forty-plus years. He
is well-informed about Southport and current issues. He was a top executive at
Goodyear. He has a strong background in community service. Alderman Kelley
seconded the motion.
Alderman Mosteller offered the following comments:
The School of Government recognizes in accordance with State Statute, “there
are no specific rules about who must be appointed or how they are selected.
Although there is no legal requirement, some cities decide to appoint the next
highest vote-getter in the most recent election.”
We are in the unusual position of filling an alderman seat by Board
appointment. Our charter does not specify a procedure.
The last time this happened was when Chief Coring stepped off the Board to
become our Police Chief, the Board appointed the next highest vote getter on
the ballot to fill his seat until the next election.
While we determine the outcomes of elections by the candidates that receive the
highest vote counts; it is important to acknowledge the community support for
other candidates.
Based on the total number of votes cast in the election, almost 40% of the
people who voted in this election cast a ballot for Ms. Bray.
Congratulations to newly elected Alderman Kelley. Approx. 46% of the
participants voted for Ms. Kelley.
Quite honestly, I would rather support the appointment of a new Board member
who had the support of 700 voters, almost 40% of all the ballots that were
cast. And only about 6% less than the second highest vote getter in Ward 2.
Rather than picking someone that has not participated in a public process,
supporting a candidate who demonstrated her commitment by standing up and
volunteering to serve the community, a candidate who took part in the League of
Women Voters debate, a candidate who has recently invested months of her time
to learn more about her community seems more representative.
It helps that Ms. Bray has already been serving as a volunteer in our community
for many years. Ms. Bray was a member first then served as Chair of the
Beautification Committee; she served on the Up Your Arts Board for several
years and is serving on the Historic Preservation Commission. Except for
sitting on this Board, I would wager that Ms. Bray has committed more volunteer
hours for the benefit of our community than those of us here at this table.
Alderman Carroll asked Mr. Lai to come to the podium. Alderman Carroll asked
questions about trees, what organizations he has been involved in, and growth.
Mr. Lai described his experience with finance and budgeting. Alderman Carroll
commented how the nomination of Mr. Lai seemed orchestrated. Alderman Mosteller
explained that the School of Government does not establish a procedure for
filling a vacant seat. It is important to recognize the will of the people. She
would rather support a new Board member who stood up and volunteered to serve.
Bonnie Bray has already been volunteering in the community for years. She has
probably donated more volunteer hours than some people already at the table.
There was a call for a vote. Alderman Kelley, Alderman Spencer, and Alderman
Davis vote aye. Alderman Carroll and Alderman Mosteller voted against
it—majority rules. Mr. Frank Lai was appointed to serve on the Board of
Aldermen. The Honorable Judge Jason Disbrow performed the Oath of Office for
Frank Lai.
   2.   Mayor Alt said he would like to appoint Alderman Kelley as the Mayor
Pro-tem. Alderman Davis made a motion to appoint Alderman Kelley as the Mayor
Pro-tem. Alderman Spencer seconded the motion—all ayes. Motion is carried.
J)   Special Presentations
   1.   City Manager Bonnie Therrien introduced Mr. Everett Jones, an arborist
who assessed Franklin Square Park. Mr. Jones went through his presentation.
Overall, he said there are (22) trees in the park that need a Level 3
assessment to look for extensive decay within the stems and root systems. The
assessment will determine if the trees are worth saving or saving. Soil care
throughout the park is needed. Trees need nutrients and extra care. He
recommended adding more mulch, fresh wood chips, and some organic matter. The
Level 3 assessment uses sonic waves to measure the tree's health. He estimated
$20-25 000 would be needed each subsequent year to protect the trees. There are
also (4) trees that need to be removed. Mr. Jones also recommended planting
more native species. Mr. Jones said the $15,000 for the Level 3 assessment
excludes tree removal, pruning, or other mitigation. There was some discussion
about the damaging effects of compaction. There was also some discussion about
how much damage was being caused by the activities in the park. Mr. Jones said
that the events were causing damage to the trees. If the City takes no action
to improve the park now, more trees will likely die. He suggested putting up
physical barriers to protect the trees. Alderman Kelley asked Alderman Davis
about the Forestry Committee and their annual tree planting program. Alderman
Davis said they would be interested, but it would also depend on the timing.
Alderman Carroll motioned to approve the appropriation of $15,000 for the Level
3 assessment. Alderman Mosteller seconded the motion. All ayes. 
K)   Public Hearings
   1.   Alderman Carroll made a motion to open the Public Hearing. Alderman
Mosteller seconded the motion—all ayes. The Public Hearing opened at 8:36
p.m. City Planner Mo Meehan explained the rezoning request. The property is
identified as Parcel # 221MC00702 on Jabbertown Road. The property is dual-
zoned LI (Light Industrial) and MH (Mobile Home). The applicant wants to rezone
the property to (MH) Mobile Home. The actual use of the property should not be
considered in a rezoning, but the applicants plan on building small single-
family homes.
Mr. Bob Remminger, a resident at 407 Trout Lily Lane, said he and his family
are concerned about what will be built on the parcel. They would be very
disappointed if trailers were placed.
Mr. Tom Dugan, a local builder, stood to speak on behalf of the applicant. He
said that the builder intends to build 1200-square-foot homes of excellent
quality. Alderman Mosteller mentioned that conditional zoning would be a great
tool in situations like this to help protect the City and limit its uses.
Alderman Davis asked Ms. Meehan to run through a list of allowable uses in the
LI district. From the audience, Penelope North asked how the property would be
accessed. Mayor Alt closed the Public Hearing at 9:05 p.m.
   2.   Alderman Carroll motioned to open the Public Hearing for the System
Development Fees. Alderman Spencer seconded the motion—all ayes. The motion was
carried, and the public hearing was opened at 9:06 p.m. City Engineer Tom
Zilinek summarized the System Development Fee Study and the options for
updating the rates. Alderman Mosteller stated that only the study has to be
adopted before the end of the year. She recommends not changing the rates until
the possible merger has been resolved. After a motion made by Alderman Spencer
and seconded by Mayor Pro-tem Kelley, the Public Hearing was closed at 9:12
a.m. Karen Mosteller motioned to adopt the SDF study and move the rate
discussion to the next meeting. Alderman Davis seconded the motion—all ayes.
Motion carried.
L)   Agenda
   1.   Mayor Alt stated that the Board could decide on a new meeting schedule.
He proposed the first Monday at 10:00 a.m. and the second Monday at 6:00 p.m.
The idea is to push most of the presentations to the morning meeting to shorten
the evening meeting. Alderman Davis suggested keeping it the same for January.
There was no motion. Alderman Davis made a motion to move the first January
meeting to January 5 at 9:00 a.m. Mayor Pro-tem Kelley seconded.
   2.   Mayor Pro-tem Kelley made a motion to move the dredging item to the
next item. Alderman Carroll seconded—all ayes. City Engineer Bob Jarvis
explained the possible grant to help fund the dredging project. Part of the
application requirements include the adoption of a Resolution of Support and a
No Tax Deby Certification. If the City was awarded the grant, it could be
reimbursed up to 75%, or the equivalent of $2.5 million. Alderman Davis
motioned to approve the Resolution of Support of Applying for the Grant and the
completion of the No Tax Debt Certification. The motion was seconded by
Alderman Spencer and Mayor Pro-tem Kelley—all ayes. Motion carried.
   3.   The City Planner addressed the Board to explain the next item, a
request for a Public Hearing regarding a text amendment for Section 3.9.B.5
Setback Exceptions and Encroachments. Alderman Carroll motioned to set the
Public Hearing for the second January Board of Aldermen meeting—all ayes.
Motion carried.
   4.   City Planner Mo Meehan explained the next item was a request to set a
Public Hearing for
a text amendment to Section 3.12.B.2 Driveways. Alderman Carroll motioned to
set the Public Hearing for the second January Board of Aldermen meeting.
Alderman Mosteller seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.
   5.   Mayor Alt said he would like to create a steering committee to develop
and update the Rules of Procedure for the Board. Alderman Carroll agreed that
providing more guidelines for the Board and meetings was a good idea. Mayor Alt
asked Alderman Carroll and Alderman Lai to serve on the committee, and they
agreed.
   6.   City Manager Therrien explained that the next item was an amendment to
the Audit contract. This was my first year with this company. It was supposed
to be done by the end of October, but it is still not ready. This is an
extension to the end of December, and the Local Government Commission requires
the extension. Mayor Alt stated that the State can garnish a portion of the
City's sales tax as a penalty and stressed the importance of a timely audit.
Ms. Therrien noted that based on the LGC website, about 80% of municipalities
are not done with their audit. There was a motion by Alderman Carroll to accept
the amendment to the audit contract, which Alderman Lai seconded—all ayes.
Motion carried.
   7.   The next item discussed was the Comprehensive Plan Steering Committee.
Previously, there was an approved motion to appoint the Planning Board as the
steering committee, but originally, there was a desire to have more public
input.
Alderman Mosteller provided the following comments:
I do not understand why Mayor Alt has put this on the agenda again. The Board
has previously voted 5 to 1 to designate the Planning Board to act as the
Steering Committee for the Comprehensive Plan Update.
The original agenda item summary that was submitted to the Board of Aldermen
included the following guidance from City Staff and I quote, “The Steering
Committee is an advisory group that provides guidance on priorities,
strategies, and generally helps keep the project moving forward. In the Unified
Development Ordinance, several responsibilities of the Planning Board are
identified, including amending, and revising a comprehensive and coordinated
plan for the area’s physical, social, and economic development.
The Planning Board is already dedicated to a similar purpose. The Planning
Board can use their regular meetings to review and consider material for the
Comprehensive Plan. For these reasons, City Staff recommends the Board of
Aldermen appoint the Planning Board as the official Steering Committee for the
Comprehensive Plan.”
The department head comments stated, “I feel that the Planning Board already
reviews projects and ordinances and makes recommendations for the betterment of
Southport. The Planning Board is well respected and will serve well as the
Steering Committee.”
Staff went on to say, “The Comprehensive Plan process will also include several
meetings with local stakeholders that will bring their own perspective.
Also, our parking study consultants will work closely with Stewart Inc. to
share information and ask questions. This will hopefully save some time and
resources.”
Just to put a fine point on it, reading from Stewart’s printed material in our
packet.
The project design is structured in three phases that include multiple:
Staff meetings
Stakeholder Group Meetings
Steering Committee Meetings
Community Visioning Workshops including a walking tour
Board of Aldermen Meetings
To quote from Stewart’s Southport project description, “This plan update will
be developed through integrating public engagement and best planning practices
while also being refined by local priorities and prospectives.”
Mayor Pro-tem Kelley recommended using members of all the current committees to
serve as the steering committee. Alderman Carroll agreed with Alderman Davis to
postpone this topic and decision until the December 20th meeting.
M)   Committee Reports
There was a brief update on the Historic Preservation Commission. The ABC Board
has adopted an Employee Policy and will hire an Assistant Store Manager. They
have also implemented a lottery to get the more sought-after items.
N)   Manager's Report
City Manager Therrien congratulated several employees for work anniversaries.
The Bay Street project should be completed soon and back open at the beginning
of next week. She wished everyone Happy Holidays.
O)   Board Comments
Alderman Lai said he looks forward to working with the Board. There are a lot
of good people in Southport. Alderman Spencer said he had received a petition
from some folks on Fodale asking for help with speeding. Mayor Pro-tem Kelley
thanked everyone for their votes and their confidence in her. She said she is
looking forward to learning as much as possible. Alderman Davis wished a Merry
Christmas to all and to all a good night! Alderman Carroll welcomed the new
Board members. He looks forward to serving alongside them. He hopes they can
continue doing the right thing for the citizens of Southport. And he wished
everyone a Merry Christmas. Alderman Mosteller wished everyone a good night.
P)    Mayor Alt thanked everyone for attending and wished everyone Happy
Holidays!
A motion was made by Alderman Spencer and a second by Alderman Carroll; the
meeting was adjourned at 9:59 p.m. All ayes. Motion carried.
 
                     _______________________________________
                     Richard Alt, Mayor
                     City of Southport
_______________________________
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
Assistant City Manager
DECEMBER 20, 2023
Special Meeting Minutes
Board of Aldermen
Special Meeting Minutes
Indian Trail Meeting Hall, 113 W. Moore St.
December 20, 2023
1:00 P.M.
Present:
Mayor Rich Alt, Mayor Pro Tem Rebecca Kelley, Aldermen Karen Mosteller, Robert
Carroll, Lowe Davis, Marc Spencer and Frank Lai.
Staff Present:
Bonnie Therrien, City Manager       Tanya Shannon, Deputy Clerk
Todd Coring, Police Chief         Charles Drew, Fire Chief
Bob Jarvis, City Engineer         ChyAnn Ketchum, Community Relations/PIO
Tom Zilinek, City Engineer         Heather Hemphill, Parks & Rec. Director
Tom Stanley, Public Services Director
Mayor Alt called the meeting to order at 1:00 p.m.
Reverend Alderman Lowe Davis led the Invocation.
Alderman Spencer led the Pledge of Allegiance.
D.   Public Comment: None
E.
   Alderman Lai Made a Motion to approve the Agenda, and second By Alderman
Carroll. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
F.   Approval of the Consent Agenda:
   1.   Minutes of the Regular Board of Aldermen Meeting November 3, 2023
   2.   Minutes of the Closed Session Board of Aldermen Meeting November 3,
2023
   3.   Minutes of the Regular Board of Aldermen Meeting November 9, 2023
   Alderman Carroll made a Motion to approve the Consent Agenda seconded by
Alderman Davis. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
G.    Special Presentations:
   1.   Introduction of the new Center for the Creative Arts Board (formerly Up
Your Arts).
   Mr. Mark Bashara introduced himself as the acting Chair of the Creative Arts
Board. He said they have put some governing roles in place, and he is the point
of contact if the City has any questions or concerns. He said in the coming
months, they will be presenting some proposals and what can be done to work
together to restore and preserve the Old City Hall/Courthouse, and his focus
today was to introduce himself. Alderman Davis asked if Creative Arts would
replace Up Your Arts, and Mr. Bashara said that Creative Arts is a separate
entity.
   2.   Boundless Playgrounds:
   Parks and Rec. Director Hemphill presented the plan for the all-inclusive
playground concept. She said it has been in planning for about 5-6 years. It is
part of the PARTF grant and Phase 2 Taylor Field Project. The Boundless
Playground removes any barrier based on abilities. The park will be named the
"Taylor Field of Dreams" and is intended to capture the history of the maritime
museum. The City has fronted $2,000 to partner with Unlimited Play, which helps
design and plan boundless playgrounds. Manager Therrien estimated the cost to
be around $750,000, but grants have already been applied, and donations from
non-profits and surrounding communities typically show generous support.
Alderman Mosteller asked where the park will be constructed, specifically at
Taylor Field. Ms. Hemphill said it would be in the center of the park. Ms.
Hemphill thanked the Board for considering "The Taylor Field of Dreams and its
partnership with Unlimited Playgrounds.
H.    Agenda
   1.   Discussion and Decision Regarding the System Development Fee Rates.
   At a public hearing on December 14, City Engineer Mr. Zilinek presented a
system development fee study, which the Board accepted. The decision to set the
fee for the coming year was postponed due to a question raised by the Board.
After seeking legal opinion, Mr. Zilinek confirmed that the fees could be
increased in the future but cannot exceed the maximum listed in the SDF study.
A new study must be conducted at least once every five years.
   The Board discussed whether to base the fees on commercial rates that can be
calculated based on the number of seats or by using the meter rate based on the
amount of usage. Alderman Davis questioned where these funds go. Ms. Therrien
said the sewer fund must be used for capital improvements to the system. The
fees collected would be kept until the merger with the county. A special
meeting will be held in January to discuss the sewer merger. Options are
available to spend the money collected so that the county takes less and the
customers benefit from the full worth of the fund balance.   
   Alderman Carroll made a motion to Update the Rates according to the new
study and apply residential rates by use but commercial rates by meter size,
seconded by Alderman Davis. Before the vote, there was more discussion.
   Alderman Mosteller discussed the meter rates versus the calculation fees.
She said there should be some consideration for what those impacts are. She
noted that new rates are calculated based on future expenses and costs. Knowing
that a merger will occur, making a short-term decision doesn't seem helpful.
Alderman Mosteller said she would like to have more discussion on using the
meter rate method for commercial rates. She would prefer to keep the rates and
revisit them in 6 months. Mayor Pro Tem Kelley agreed. She said that she would
like to see the comparison for commercial businesses based on calculations or
usage fees. Mr. Zilinek gave an example of a 40-seat restaurant; using the
current structure, the system development fee would be $77,232. He said that
the meter-based fee would be if they have a three-quarter-inch meter, it would
be $15,847, and for a one-inch meter, it would be $39,617. Mayor Pro Tem Kelley
asked what it would be for other businesses, and Mr. Zilinek said he only did
the restaurant calculations. Alderman Carroll suggested evaluating the UDO to
see if there could be modifications to whether a person who purchased a
property with an existing tap would have to pay another system development fee.
Mr. Zilinek said that a rate has to be set by December 31, but it could be
later when the rate goes into effect.
   Alderman Mosteller explained that if a flat rate is charged for a meter
size, it would apply to a restaurant with 40 seats or 200 seats. She added
that, in all likelihood, a 200- seat restaurant would require more capacity
than a 40-seat restaurant, and therefore, meter fees for commercial purposes
would be questionable. Alderman Carroll said the motion could be amended to
remove meter size, go by usage, and have more discussions, including the merger
with Brunswick County.
   Alderman Carroll amended the motion to update the rates according to the new
study and use the usage method for residential and commercial and second by
Alderman Davis. Aye: Alderman Mosteller, Carroll, and Davis. Nay: Mayor Pro Tem
Kelley, Alderman Spencer, and Lai. 3-3, Mayor Alt breaks the tie with a Nay
Vote. Motion Denied 3-4.
   Mr. Zilinek reminded the Board that a rate still needed to be set. Mayor Pro
Tem Kelly made a motion to leave the rates as they currently are pending the
January meeting that would provide more information regarding the merger with
the county seconded by Alderman Spencer. Aye; Mayor Pro Tem Kelley, Alderman
Spencer, Lai, and Mosteller. Nay: Alderman Carroll and Davis. Motion Carried 4-
2.
   2.   Request for Waiver of Penalties
   David Wayne Smith of Wayne Smith & Son said they are building a custom home
for Bill and Sally Demidovich at 683 Carolina Bay Ct in Indigo Plantation. They
believed they'd submitted all needed applications and only removed trees from
specific areas around the footprint. They offered to plant new trees to offset
the removed ones. Wayne Smith & Son is a small, family-owned business with
years of experience. He thanked the Board for considering waiving the fees.
   Former city building inspector Mr. Wayne Strickland spoke in favor of Mr.
Smith, stating he has always followed the rules. Mr. Strickland also mentioned
many people had difficulty using the permit portal, making it hard to complete
the process without consulting the building inspector. He believed the fine was
disproportionate to the Ordinance's intent and the penalty for clearing the
lot, which he had done, was unusual.   
   Alderman Carroll feels that this is not the contractor's problem. It is the
property owner's problem. He reiterated a similar situation with unpermitted
tree removal; the fees were not removed, and the people paid less than the
Ordinance required penalty.
   Alderman Caroll made a motion to enforce the penalty of $46,583.29, seconded
by Alderman Davis. Before a vote was taken, there was a discussion.
   Mayor Pro Tem Kelley appreciated the City's tree ordinance and suggested
adjusting the penalty fee for the cleared area instead of the entire lot.
Alderman Carroll believes it is the responsibility of the property owners,
contractors, or builders to research the Ordinance and follow the guidelines.
Alderman Davis said removing trees without a permit undermines the tree
protection ordinance. Mr. Smith's wife presented a topography showing 119 live
oaks on the property.
   Alderman Mosteller appreciated that there are several members of the Board
from the POA for Indigo Plantation. Still, the POA does not enforce the City's
Ordinance, and the POA or ARB was unaware of the City's tree ordinance adopted
in 2018 and required with the building permit. Alderman Mosteller stated that
the point of having rules and regulations is if they are not enforced. Alderman
Davis agreed and said that if allowances and waivers keep getting approved, it
will undermine the Ordinance. Alderman Mosteller asked Manager Therrien about
the 9th Street project where there was a lot and many trees were cut without a
tree permit, and the fine was $11,910 and asked if there was a resolution and
what the status was. Manager Therrien said she would review the records and
provide the status. Mayor Alt stated that there is a difference in the cases.
One case has a topography showing what trees were there, whereas the others did
not apply for permits. Alderman Caroll stated that it is apparent that there
are many steps in the process of applying for a building permit where questions
are asked about trees and obtaining a tree permit. Alderman Carroll asked to
whom the fine was levied. Manager Therrien said to the property owner.
   The motion was repeated: Alderman Caroll made a motion to enforce the
penalty fees of $46,583.29, seconded by Alderman Davis. Aye: Alderman Davis,
Carroll, and Mosteller. Nay: Mayor Pro Tem Kelley, Aldermen Spencer, and Lai.
3-3 Mayor Alt broke the tie with a Nay: 3-4 Motion denied. Mayor Alt said he
believed the fine was too high and entertained another motion.
   Mayor Pro Tem Kelley made a motion to look at the square footage of the
cleared space of the lot, add the remediation plan that was put forth, and use
the calculations that are currently in the tree ordinance to come up with a
modified amount for the fine for the property and seconded by Alderman Lai.
   It was noted that four trees were removed from the ROW, which must also be
calculated fine.
   Mayor Pro Tem Kelley amended the motion that the fine be based on the 25% of
the clearing of the lot, including the mitigation that was already put forth
and what the penalties for the four removed public trees in the right-of-way
will be and seconded by Alderman Lai. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
   Alderman Spencer questioned what would be the total amount for the fine
would be now. Manager Therrien stated that the motion could be tabled until a
calculation for the penalty could completed or voted on and then determined the
fee and brought back to the Board in January. Alderman Carroll recommended that
it be determined that as much as 25% of the lot was cut and given city staff
direction on how much to charge for the fines moving forward.
   Mayor Alt stated that Manager Therrien will have the city staff recalculate
the new fine and report it to the Board.
   Break       3:15 p.m.
   Return    2:22 p.m.
   3.   Minimum Housing Ordinance and Discussion
   Manager Therrien stated that there was a discussion on many options and
solutions at the Public Hearing. After meeting with Attorney Herman, they
determined that there has to be a legal process to give the property owners due
process and protect their civil rights. She explained that typically, the City
will request that the owners demolish and remove the structure, and if they do
not respond or comply, the City will be allowed to remove it after a court
process. The City would pay the removal expenses, and then a lien would be
placed on the property, so if the property is sold, the City would get the
money back. She said this is something that the City needs so these abandoned
houses can be removed.
   Mayor Pro Tem Kelley noted that some of the language in the proposed
Ordinance is questionable. She recommended the following changes: 1) Any
reference to screens in and out should be removed; 2) Any reference to mandated
garbage disposal at a sink or incinerator should be removed; remove required
off- street parking; and Mayor Hatem's name should be to Mayor Alt. Alderman
Spencer recommends taking out the interior condition of the house. Mayor Pro
Tem Kelley said that is included in the proposed Ordinance.
   Mayor Pro Tem Kelley motioned to approve the Minimum Housing Ordinance as
presented with the amendments mentioned earlier and seconded by Alderman Lai.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
   4.   Shoreline Stabilization Contract
   Mr. Bob Jarvis, the City Engineer, provided a brief explanation of the issue
of shoreline erosion. Olsen Associates completed an initial planning and design
phase, which has been approved. Developing a phasing scheme is necessary due to
the current funding for the proposed improvements' design, permitting, and
construction. Funding for the project was provided through a $5M grant from the
State Emergency Response and Disaster Relief Fund. The grant will expire on
June 30, 2026. Approximately $70k has been spent on the project since Olsen
commenced their work in January 2023. Mr. Jarvis recommended that the City
enter the next phase of Olsen Associates' contract for ongoing engineering and
enable the project to be completed within the funding timeframe. It is expected
to take approximately 150 days. The City Attorney has reviewed the proposed
Task Order.   
   Alderman Mosteller made a motion to authorize the Contract with Olsen
Associates to continue the work for design development, coordination, and
permitting for dredging the Shoreline Stabilization Project second by Alderman
Lai. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
   5.   Discussion of Municipally Owned Alleyways
   Alderman Mosteller proposed a policy allowing citizens to restore and
maintain their alleyways for rear access to their property. The Planning Staff
will review and help create a policy. Alleyways are crucial assets to the
character and walkability of older neighborhoods. Some community members are
asking about debris and tree removal. Alderman Mosteller wants a policy
implemented soon and does not believe this is an encroachment issue.
   During the discussion, ensuring that individuals who receive permits to
clear paths and trees do not attempt to claim city property as their own, such
as by erecting fences, was brought up. Alderman Mosteller clarified that such
an action would be considered an encroachment and noted that a policy is
already in place to address it.
   Alderman Mosteller made a motion to allow the Planning Department Staff to
help create a policy that would enable the citizens to restore and maintain
their alleyways for rear access and walkability, second by Alderman Lai.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
   Alderman Davis requested an excusal to attend a scheduled appointment. The
Board accepted the request.
   6.   Discussion and Direction for the creation of the Steering Committee
   Mayor Alt said at the last meeting, there was a discussion about potentially
voting to give the Planning Board the authority to become the Steering
Committee for the Comprehensive Plan update and revision. Mayor Alt stated that
it is known that the Planning Board will review the plan before it is sent to
the Board of Aldermen. During that discussion, a conversation was about
bringing citizens in to participate. Mayor Pro Tem Kelley suggested including
members of other committees and citizens to participate. The Consultant for the
project "Stewart" recommended to have:
   1 member of the Historic Preservation Commission
   1-2 Planning Board members
   1 member of the Parks & Recreation Advisory Board
   1 Business Owner
   1-2 members from other committees (Forestry Committee and Beautification)
   1 involved citizen
   1 Minority representative
   The Board discussed how the chosen members would be selected from each
committee and the citizen representatives. Alderman Caroll disagrees with the
consultant's recommendation for who the representatives should be for the
Steering Committee. He suggested allowing the Chair of each Committee to
recommend the appointments to the Board of Aldermen. Mayor Alt questioned the
outside Committee members and how they would be selected. Alderman Mosteller
said that each city committee is collectively diverse and includes business
people. She feels members outside of the existing committees are obtuse. She
suggested having three members of the Planning Board, including a member who
lives in the ETJ and people who understand the Comprehensive Plan. Alderman
Carroll feels that taking a certain number of members from the current
committees would be sufficient. Mayor Alt had concerns about having three
members from the Planning Board because the full Board will be in full review
and make recommendations to the Board of Aldermen. He feels allowing members
from other committees and representatives to participate in the process is
essential.
   Alderman Carroll made a motion that the Steering Committee for the
Comprehensive Plan shall be made up of the following members and second by
Mayor Pro Tem Kelley. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
   1 from the Beautification Committee
   1 from the Forestry Committee
   1 Historic Preservation Commission Members
   1 from the Board of Adjustments
   1 from Parks and Recreation
   2 from the Planning Board (1city and 1ETJ)
   1 Business Owner (applications to be submitted and interviewed for position)
   1 Involved Citizen (application to be submitted and interviewed for
position)
   The Board has agreed to post a notice for applications to fill two positions
on the Steering Committee: one for a business owner and one for an involved
citizen. Alderman Mosteller, Lai, and Spencer will conduct the interviews.
I.   Committee Reports:
Alderman Mosteller announced the 12/20 Planning Board Meeting at 6:00 p.m.
J.   Manager's Report:
At the last meeting, Ms. Therrien received a report from an Arborist stating
that some trees in Franklin Square Park require immediate attention. After
reviewing the report, she contacted the City's insurance company's risk
personnel. They recommended closing the park to prevent any accidents caused by
falling trees or limbs. Ms. Therrien explained that the City could be liable if
it did not take action and any damage occurred due to the known risk. There
will be signage and net fencing to block the area off and provide a detour for
the Franklin Square Art Gallery. The risk assessment team will be here soon to
advise on more safety plans.
K.   Staff Reports in agenda packets
L.   Mayor's Comments:
   Mayor Alt appointed the Board Liaisons:
ABC                   Alderman Lai
   Cemetery Committee          Alderman Spencer
   Forestry Committee            Alderman Mosteller
   Historic Preservation Commission    Alderman Carroll
   Parks and Recreation          Alderman Davis
   Planning Board             Mayor Pro Tem Kelley and Alderman Lai
   Zoning Board of Adjustments        Alderman Spencer
   Sunny Point                Alderman Spencer
   4th of July Committee          Mayor Pro Tem Kelley
 
   Mayor Alt said that the Beautification and Electricities Liaisons will be
discussed at the meeting on January 5, 2024.
M.   Board Comments:
   Alderman Mosteller noted that with the conversation regarding the tree
ordinance, she referred to the minutes when the tree ordinance was initially
adopted on March 8, 2018, and quoted Alderman Coring stating his support for
the Ordinance. He explained he had some hard questions at the February meeting,
but to ensure he did his due diligence, "As hard as we fight for our waters and
coastline, we should fight just as hard for the trees."
   Alderman Carroll commented that Manager Therrien sent out the notes
regarding the sewer and said there is not $29M in cash sitting there but $29M
in assets. He said there is only about $12M in cash, $2.7 M in land, and
infrastructure net depreciation of $11.7 M. There are liabilities that exceed
$2.8M.
   Alderman Lai-none
   Alderman Spencer wished everyone a Merry Christmas and a safe New Year. He
thanked Chief Coring for taking care of Fodale Avenue. The neighbors have
called and reported that the police have been present in the area, and they may
be requesting some relief. However, Alderman Spencer appreciates the Chief's
efforts in following through with the matter. He said the alleyways would be an
excellent opportunity to help encourage new walking paths that have been wasted
over the years. Alderman Spencer said he is on the Board of Directors for
Southport Cares and encourages support for locals in need. Please contact
Southport Cares, Chief Drew, Chief Coring, or Mr. Tom Lott to find out how to
get involved.
   Mayor Pro Tem Kelley-none
   Mayor Alt wished everyone a Merry Christmas and A Safe and Happy New Year!
   Alderman Carroll motioned to adjourn and was seconded by Mayor Pro Tem
Kelley. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
Adjournment: 4:18 p.m.
                     _______________________________________
                     Richard Alt, Mayor
                     City of Southport
_______________________________
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
Assistant City Manager
 
2024
January 5, 2024
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN Regular Meeting Minutes
January 5, 2024   Indian Trail Meeting Hall
SOUTHPORT, N.C.   9:00 A.M.
 
Present:   Mayor Rich Alt, Mayor Pro Tem Rebecca Kelley, Aldermen Lowe Davis,
Robert Carroll, Marc Spencer, Karen Mosteller and Frank Lai
Staff Present:
      Bonnie Therrien, City Manager
      Dorothy Dutton, Assistant Manager/ City Clerk
      ChyAnn Ketchum, Community Relations/PIO
A) Mayor Rich Alt called the meeting to order at 9:00 a.m. and welcomed
everyone.
B) Alderman Lowe Davis gave the Invocation.
C) The Pledge of Allegiance was led by Mayor Alt.
D) Public Comment:
None
E) Approval of the Agenda
A motion was made by Alderman Lai and seconded by Mayor Pro tem Kelley to
approve the agenda. All ayes; motioned carried.
F)  Presentations
   1. Mayor Alt introduced the representatives, Dave Smith, and Johnathan
Layton from HICAPS. They were hired to inspect all of the City owned
properties, provide an assessment on the condition, and also make
recommendations to help maintain them. The final report provides an executive
summary for each building, property descriptions, and a review for safety and
fire protection. HICAPS rated each building as good, fair, and poor. And they
provided an estimate of the cost of repairs. The representatives said that the
report will help plan the Capital Improvement Plan for the next ten years. They
also assigned different levels of urgency to the recommendations-immediate,
short-term, or over-term.
In many cases, there were gutters and downspouts missing, which caused damages
to the structures. The old City Hall building has mold, water infiltration, and
all major trades have issues. The building still needs a complete structural
inspection, and hazardous materials abatement. The urgent costs are estimated
at $3.94 million. Abatement of mold will likely cost $150,000. Alderman Carroll
stated that it wouldn’t do any good to remove mold and asbestos but leave it
unconditioned.
Mr. Smith and Mr. Layton reviewed each building and their findings. For many
buildings, there was overgrown vegetation, ADA improvements and gutters needed.
Overall, the total estimated costs are $5,014,375. Mayor Alt stated that the
old City Hall building might not all be considered urgent, because no one is
currently using it. The HICAPS team added that they are happy to re-estimate
projects as needed.
City Manager Bonnie Therrien thanked them for the report and added that the
report is so important for future planning.
   2. Mr. Hugh Fosbury approached the podium to explain the proposed 4 th of
July Festival agreement with the City of Southport. Ms. Lucinda Arnold and
Trisha Howarth, from the festival committee were also in attendance. Mr.
Fosbury explained that the proposed agreement was the same as the previous, but
the deadline date is October 1 st . The agreement will roll over automatically
unless someone requests a change. The 4 th of July Festival Board meets monthly
on the third Tuesday. Mayor Alt asked for a copy of the original declaration
and the original charter with the committee’s regulations. Alderman Marc
Spencer asked if it would be possible for the City to have a voting position
within the festival board. Ms. Fosbury stated that the City is listed as the
lead sponsor in all the community information. Alderman Davis asked for a list
of all the current 4 th of July Board and Committee, so she can thank them .
Alderman Carroll made a motion to accept the revised agreement. Alderman
Mosteller seconded the motion. Alderman Carroll amended his motion to state
that the City be listed as the title sponsor and authorize the City Manager to
sign the agreement. All ayes. Motion carried.  
   3. Ellie Pittenger, the Electrical Superintendent for the City, introduced
Ms. Deborah Fish, with Brunswick Electric. Ms. Fish said that BEMC had just
finished a project-the Cape Fear Drive conversion to underground. She showed
some pictures of before and after. They also finished the conversion of River
Drive. She added that the entire system will be underground within the next ten
years. She reviewed the NC211 project, some subdivisions, and also the next
projects that are planned. They have been ordering supplies ahead of the
projects because of material shortages and delays. Sometimes it takes up to
(60) weeks to get the supplies in, so they are asked for a PO for the project
they want to do next year. Once the materials have arrived, they will do a PO
for labor. BEMC wants to finish up the 2023/2024 work plan and then start on
the E. Moore Street conversion. After that, they will remove all the poles down
Howe Street, and install the decorative exterior lighting per the City’s
policy.
They would like the Board to approve a PO for $900,000 for materials. There was
some discussion about where the three-phase services are located, and also who
is responsible for the expense of moving electrical service underground.
Ms. Fish explained that Dosher Memorial Hospital’s electrical is completely
underground now. They are working on a loop system that will allow most
locations on while there is an outage. There was some discussion about
accommodating the 4 th of July Banners. Alderman Carroll made a motion to
approve taking $150,000 from the electrical fund to amend the BEMC plan to
include Lord Street. Alderman Spencer seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion
carried .
4. Chief Drew addressed the Board of Aldermen about an amendment to Chapter 7
of the Code of Ordinances regarding Fire Protection. He explained that because
the City provides yard debris collection, there should not be anything left for
residents to burn. The Fire Department is recommending the use of gas-burning
fire pits that do not emit smoke or ash. Fire pits have become a widely used
feature at many residences. Chief Drew stated that cooking outside and food
preparation is allowed. There was some discussion about amending the ordinance
later to include smokeless wood, or other fire pits as long as they are in a
controlled environment. Alderman Kelley made a motion to adopt the amendment as
presented, and Alderman Mosteller seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion
carried.
G. Agenda
1. City Manager Therrien explained the current Yaupon Drive Extension
situation. Tom Stanley and Tom Zilinek did a lot of research on the street but
determined that it is only a “paper road” and the City is not receiving any
Powell Bill funding for its maintenance. There is no evidence that the City
ever took ownership of the road. City Engineer Tom Zilinek estimates that it
would cost $1.5 million to fully improve the road. City Manager Therrien said
the City has no obligation to improve it, but it is a public safety issue.
Mayor Alt suggested that the property owners fix the road. And Mayor Pro-tem
Kelley added that if the cost is divided between the property owners, it is
approximately $15,000 per owner. She said that it would be setting a bad
precedent if the City paid for the improvements. The other Board members agreed
that it would set a bad precedent. Alderman Mosteller said she hoped the lots
sold for a reduced amount so that the residents can afford to gravel it.
Alderman Carroll said he would like to learn how Boiling Spring Lakes handles
all their gravel roads. Alderman Davis made a motion that the City does not
fund the road improvements for Yaupon Drive Extension. Alderman Spencer
seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.
   2. Assistant City Manager Dorrie Dutton, and City Planner Mo Meehan reviewed
the possible options for managing the short-term rentals in Southport. Alderman
Kelley had met with City staff and recommended that staff works with the
residents and property owners that are currently operating short-term vacation
rentals. Staff can ask for their help in identifying rental properties that are
not compliant with the current ordinance standards. Ms. Dutton and Ms. Meehan
recommended that the City contract with Granicus for at least one year to help
identify the short-term vacation rentals and get the City on the right path
moving forward. Additionally, City staff would be releasing more information to
the City’s website and hosting community meetings to explain the ordinance and
how it will be enforced. Alderman Mosteller made a motion to contract with
Granicus. Alderman Davis seconded the motion. There was more discussion about
other options. Alderman Spencer and Mayor Pro-tem Kelley voted no to the
motion. Aldermen Davis, Mosteller, Lai, and Carroll voted aye. Majority rules.
Motion carried. Alderman Spencer added that he thinks limiting short-term
vacation rentals is a kind of illegal property taking.
   3. Chief Coring and Major Burke addressed the Board regarding the recent
petition to reduce the speed limit on N. Fodale Avenue. Chief Coring said that
the Police Department had placed a sign message board and had placed patrol
cars in the area to capture the speed of passing vehicles. The average speed
captured was 31 miles per hour. They explained that all patrol officers are
running radar if they are out, and they don’t have to be stationary. But once a
driver sees an officer, they start spreading the word. Major Burke said they
were relocating the equipment to the other side of Fodale. Alderman Davis asked
is reducing the speed limit would be helpful, but Major Burke said that we are
looking for voluntary compliance, so he didn’t think a reduction in the speed
limit would help. Alderman Spencer said he would like to study Fodale, Park and
Stewart because they are being used as cut-throughs. We need to educate the
public. Alderman Carroll added that we live in an area where a Board member can
make a request and staff is able to jump on it quickly. He said it was
wonderful. There was some discussion about re-routing the traffic to and from
the ferry. And Alderman Spencer asked Ms Therrien to arrange for the NCDOT to
come back to speak to the Board about re-directing traffic. City Manager
Therrien said the Police would be back to present the findings from the other
side of the road.
   4. Mayor Alt explained that there were a lot of reasons for having two
meetings a month. He proposes that the first meeting each month be mainly for
presentations. Alderman Mosteller made a motion to change the Regular meetings
to the first Wednesday morning of the month and the second meeting would remain
on the second Thursday in the evening. There was no second. Alderman Davis
motioned for the Regular Board meeting schedule to the first Monday at 9:00
a.m. and the second meeting would remain on the second Thursday at 6:00 p.m.
Mayor Pro-tem Kelley seconded. Alderman Carroll said he doesn’t mind the
schedule, so long as the agenda packets are sent out well in advance. There was
more discussion. Alderman Mosteller was opposed, but majority rules. Motion
carried.  
H. Manager’s Report
   Ms. Therrien stated that Downtown Southport will not be holding events this
year, but the City would continue them if possible. There are more meetings
next week including the orientation and other Regular meeting. She read through
some employees work-anniversaries including Heather Hemphill with (25) years,
Ellie Pittenger with (21) years, Tanya Shannon with (7) years and several
Public Services staff with (1) year.
I. Mayor’s Comments
   Mayor Rich Alt shared that the City had received (29) applications for the
City Clerk position. City staff will narrow them down, and then a Board
committee will review them even further before interviews are scheduled. The
Board committee includes Mayor Alt, Alderman Davis, and Alderman Lai, and also
Ms. Dutton. Alderman Spencer said he hoped priority would be given to internal
candidates who were qualified.
J. Board Comments
   Alderman Mosteller said that in the future, it would be helpful to have the
reports ahead of time. Alderman Carroll congratulated Heather Hemphill for her
time with the City. In honor of her time, he has made a donation to the Taylor
Field of Dreams. He applauded Ellie Pittenger and congratulated him on his
nearing retirement. Alderman Lai said that he is really learning to appreciate
City staff and the time they spend to make things happen. And the Board, too.
Mayor Pro-tem Kelley said she has spoken to so many families who are excited
about the Taylor Field of Dreams. She thanked the 4 th of July Committee for
all their hard work. Alderman Spencer asked for people to volunteer for the 4
th of July committee. He said that he loves the Police Officers and is looking
forward to the opportunities in the coming year. Alderman Davis asked again for
the names of the 4 th of July committee members because she would like to say
thank you. She thanked Ms. Shirley Sullivan for staying for the whole meeting.
She congratulated Heather Hemphill and encouraged the public to go watch the
basketball games.
K. Closed Session
Mayor Alt said he would accept a motion to go into Closed Session per NCGS 143-
318.11 (a)(5). Real estate negotiation. He added that there would be a second
closed session per 143.318.11 (a)(6). Qualifications and appointments. Alderman
Mosteller explained that the real estate exemption does not include the selling
of property. Alderman Davis said she feels that the City should disclose all
the properties that the City is considering purchasing and selling. She made a
motion to disclose all properties. There was no second.
Alderman Carroll made a motion to go into Closed Session. Alderman Mosteller
seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried. Closed Session began at 11:57
a.m.
L. Adjourn
A motion was made to return to open session and adjourn by Alderman Carroll.
Alderman Lai seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried. Mayor Alt adjourned
the meeting at 12:38 p.m.
                     ___________________________________
                     Richard Alt, Mayor
                     City of Southport
___________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
Assistant City Manager
January 10, 2024
Water/Sewer Merger Special Meeting Minutes
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN Water/Sewer Merger Special Meeting Minutes
January 10, 2024  Indian Trail Meeting Hall, 113 W. Moore St.
SOUTHPORT, N.C.   9:00 A.M.
 
Board Present:   Mayor Rich Alt, Mayor Pro Tem Rebecca Kelley, Alderman Karen
Mosteller, Robert Carroll, Marc Spencer, Frank Lai
Absent:   Lowe Davis
Staff Present:
   Bonnie Therrien, City Manager
   Tanya Shannon, Deputy Clerk
   Lance Flint, Finance Director
   Teresa Jones, Tax Collector
   Brandon Stevens, Deputy Finance Director
   Tom Zilinek, City Engineer
   Tom Stanley, Public Services Director
   ChyAnn Ketchum, Communications Director
A.   Mayor Alt called the meeting to order at 9:00 A.M.
B.   Alderman Spencer gave the Invocation.
C.   The Pledge of Allegiance was led by Mayor Alt.
D.   Alderman Carroll Made a Motion to approve the Agenda, and second By
Alderman Lai.  
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
E.   Agenda
1.   Manager Therrien reviewed the issues that must be resolved before a
merger. Such include annexation loss, use of fund balances, whether to merge
water or not, staffing levels, and other services provided to the residents.
2.   The Board discussed hiring a special attorney to assist with the potential
water merger with the County. Mr. Mac McCarley, an experienced attorney with
expertise in mergers, joined the Board via conference call and discussed the
success of a previous merger with Shallotte. He expressed his interest in being
considered for the job. It was noted that a merger could take anywhere from 3
to 8 months to finalize. Ms. Therrien informed the Board that the cost of the
attorney would be $495 per hour and that the fees would be paid from the water
and sewer fund.   
   Alderman Carroll made a motion to appoint Mr. McCarley as the City Attorney
for negotiating and developing legal documents with the County for the merger.
The motion also included granting authorization to the City Manager, Therrien,
to oversee the agreement and to sign any correspondence. Alderman Spencer
seconded the motion. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
3.   Finance Director Lance Flint provided a financial overview of the fund
balance and the use of funds and grants with a PowerPoint presentation for the
Water/Sewer Merger Financial Analysis. Mr. Flint explained there will be
significant savings for utility customers by merging. Each customer's savings
depend on numerous factors, including the services used, the size of the water
meter, and location within or outside of city limits. The Water & Sewer fund is
funding City services that will continue post-merger. These costs will transfer
to the General Fund and require new revenue sources to fund. The Water-Sewer
Fund balance contains net assets valued at $27 million, including $12.4 million
in cash. Decisions on which assets to retain and convey must be made, and
opportunities to use cash now should be explored. The City has several capital
projects in development with funding that involves incurring debt. The funding
identified for the Wastewater Treatment expansion that was voided is not
sufficient to cover the current cost estimate. Incurring debt to complete these
projects can be avoided with a merger. Funding that is specific to the City may
not be transferable to the County.
   The Board talked about the potential spending of the General Fund and the
allocation of funds for various capital projects. Manager Therrien mentioned
that the City and County Staff will meet to discuss the different projects and
decide which entity is responsible for completing each project. There was a
question about determining the use of funds, and it is unclear what the
County's bottom line is. If the City proposes five projects, but the County
disagrees, why not discuss the necessary projects until an agreed-upon amount
is determined? Manager Therrien replied that she would like to get an idea from
the Board on exactly what projects would be considered.
   Break- 10:34 a.m.
   Return-10:44 a.m.
4.   Tax Collector Teresa Jones and Public Services Director Tom Stanley
discussed the merger's potential effects on their respective departments. Ms.
Jones noted that a complete merger would impact three full-time and two part-
time positions. If only the sewer department is merged, staffing levels must
remain unchanged. However, if a complete merger is approved, the Utility
Billing Specialist position can be eliminated, with the Customer Service
Representative and Utility Department Supervisor taking over the remaining
duties.
5.   Mr. Stanley explained that while there are currently eight positions in
the water and sewer division, these employees are responsible for much more
than just water and sewer tasks. He was asked how many positions would become
unnecessary if the county took over the water. Mr. Stanley replied with two
positions. But these positions could be negotiated with the County to hire
them. He said it's important to remember that two projects could affect the
future manpower needs of Public Services: the Building Assessment Survey, which
revealed a need for additional maintenance of City-owned buildings, and the
Storm Water Mapping & Planning Project, which will include a Capital
Improvement Plan. This plan will likely include projects or improvements that
City Staff may perform in addition to contracted work.
6.   a) Should Water be Merged with the County?
   Alderman Carroll motioned to merge City Water with the County, seconded by
Alderman Mosteller. Unanimous Vote, Motion Carried.
   Mayor Pro Tem Kelley pointed out the need to discuss the revenue and
compensation structure for the city staff affected by the merger. Various
sources of revenue, including ad-valorem taxes, were discussed. Manager
Therrien said this issue will be addressed during the budget meetings. Alderman
Mosteller noted that it appears as a loss of revenue but also noted that the
rates are decreasing.
b) Reallocate $1.263 Million of ARPA Funds out of Water/Sewer to a General Fund
project. Resurfacing of Roads? Shoreline Stabilization?
   Mayor Alt requested clarification on separate funds, which are not part of
the $12 million budget. Finance Director Flint confirmed that the separate
funds were not included in the $12 million. Mayor Alt emphasized that the money
was not allocated to the sewer fund, which is now being removed. Mr. Flint
clarified that the funds were not in the sewer fund but were designated for
expanding the voided wastewater treatment facility. These funds can be
transferred to the general fund and must be utilized for the stated purpose by
Federal regulations by 2026. The Board agreed to discuss the allocation of
these funds during the Budget Meetings.   
   Alderman Carroll motioned to reallocate the $1.263 million ARPA funds of the
Water/Sewer Fund to the General Fund. The decision regarding the use of these
funds will be made later in the year 2024. Mayor Pro Tem Kelley seconded the
motion.  Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
c)   Positions to Keep with the City and Those to Go to the County.
   The Board agreed to table this discussion for further review.
d)    Use of Fund Balance:
1.     Set aside funds to pave roads after sewer projects.
   There was a discussion about the paving of roads. It was concluded that the
city needs to identify the roads that require repairs after the sewer work is
completed. The responsibility for repairing the roads damaged during the City's
repair work would fall on the City, whereas the County would be responsible for
repairing roads damaged by their work. The decision regarding who will repair
the roads will be made after negotiations.
2.    Subsidize lower rates so customers are paying County rates.   
      Alderman Carroll made a Motion to instruct City Staff to determine what
the new rate would be less the additional $1.6 Million that is being added to
the Fund Balance from the Sewer Fund Balance every year and implement those new
rates seconded by Alderman Lai and Mayor Pro Tem Kelley.  Unanimous Vote;
Motion Carried.
3.   Use some funding to offset loans.
   Manager Therrien stated that there will be more discussion about offsetting
loans once there is more information about the rates.
4.   Collection of fees  
   Manager Therrien raised concerns about collecting fees and how they would be
collected. She asked if there would be a substation for fee collection or if
customers would have to go to the County Complex to make the payments. The
Board agreed to table the discussion and revisit it later.
e)    Mayor Comments:
Mayor Alt thanked everyone for attending and the Board for having a good
discussion and wished everyone to go out and enjoy the beautiful day.
f)    Board Comments:
The Board appreciated the Staff for all their hard work.
   There was no further discussion. Alderman Carroll made a Motion to adjourn,
seconded by Alderman Mosteller. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
Adjourn- 12:04 p.m.
___________________________         __________________________
Mayor, Rich Alt             Deputy Clerk, Tanya Shannon
January 11, 2024
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN MEETING MINUTES
January 11, 2024  Community Building, 223 E. Bay St.
SOUTHPORT, N.C.   6:00 P.M.
 
Present:    Mayor Rich Alt, Mayor Pro Tem Rebecca Kelley, Alderman Karen
Mosteller, Lowe Davis, Robert Carroll, Frank Lai and Marc Spencer.    
Absent:   None
Staff:   Manager Bonnie Therrien, Deputy Clerk Tanya Shannon, PIO ChyAnn
Ketchum, City Planner Mo Meehan, Fire Chief Charles Drew, Public Services
Director Tom Stanley, City Attorney Brady Herman, Battalion Chief Ralph
Treadway, Parks and Rec. Director Heather Hemphill.
A.    Call to Order: Mayor Rich Alt called the meeting to order at 6.00 p.m.
B.    Reverend Alderman Lowe Davis gave the Invocation.
C.    Mayor Alt led the Pledge of Allegiance.
D.    Public Comment:
1.    Francesa Slaughter from 6272 Cattail Court extended an apology to the
Board for the unacceptable behavior of the former Alderman and the bullying of
some of the Planning Board members. She also expressed her concerns about the
misinformation being circulated on social media and urged everyone to move past
any bitterness. She reminded everyone about the City of Southport's Mission
Statement, which emphasizes the need to strive for excellence in government,
maintain a positive attitude, involve the community, and ensure a safe, secure,
and peaceful quality of life with controlled and organized growth.
2.   Mary Ann McCarthy, residing at 5241 Shipmast Way, has expressed concerns
about using residential conditional zoning. She liked the idea of additional
public meetings. She stated that certain aspects of this type of zoning have
not been discussed. She mentioned that neither the staff nor the Chair of the
Planning Board have talked about long-term decisions, which could result in a
lack of transparency and communication. She hopes to hear more discussion about
the potential negative effects from the Staff and the Board.
3.   Martha Johnson of 227 E. 11th St. was concerned about the process for
appointing the new Alderman. She contacted the SOG (School of Government) and
said that although it was legal, it might be unethical. During the meeting,
Martha handed out copies of the code of ethics and read the rules of
procedures. She would like to see more consistency and transparency from the
Board.
4.   Eric Lappala, who resides at 215 W. Moore St, is concerned about the
parking situation on the vacant lots in the yacht basin. The area is currently
zoned residential and has three owners. The yacht basin committee previously
stated that the zones could not be rezoned and turned into a parking overlay.
This was a written recommendation made two years ago, and he is concerned that
nothing has been done about it yet. He wants clarification on how the parking
study would address the issue, how it would affect public property, and why it
is taking so long. Is. He is only referring to the three residential lots and
wants to know if any progress has been made.
5.    Bonnie Bray, residing at 515 Quarter Master Dr., has expressed her
disagreement with the recent reduction of fees and penalty charges for tree
removal. She also has concerns regarding the seriousness of the tree ordinance
and its enforcement, particularly in the sections addressing penalties. Follow
the rules and the fees, keep it as is so that it does not change, and wait
until you hear more from the citizens.
7.   Kenny Barnes, who lives at 203 E. 8th St, shared that he recently read an
article about the increase in alligator sightings and warned people to be
aware.
8.   Gerald Donaldson, 5990 Dutchman Creek Rd, submitted a comment that Deputy
Clerk Tanya Shannon read. He strongly supports the City’s consideration of
transferring the 441-acre tract to NC Wildlife and Resources for environmental
and habitual protection.
   Mayor Alt closed Public Comment and read the Ethics Statement.
“If any members know of any conflict of interest or the appearance of a
conflict of interest concerning matters on the agenda, please so state at this
time.”
E.   Approval of the Agenda: 
A Motion was made by Alderman Carroll to approve the Agenda and seconded by
Alderman Mosteller. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
F.   Approval of the Consent Agenda:
1.   Board of Aldermen Regular Meeting Minutes December 14, 2023
2.   Board of Aldermen Special Called Meeting Minutes December 20, 2023
3.   Board of Aldermen Special Closed Session Meeting Minutes December 11, 2023
   Alderman Spencer made a Motion to approve the Consent Agenda seconded by
Alderman Carroll.  Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
G.   Public Hearings
1.   Mayor Alt opened the Public Hearing for Text Amendment-Section 3.9.B.5
Setback Exceptions and Encroachments.
   The proposed amendment includes heating and air conditioning units in the
encroachment provisions. It aims to accommodate smaller lot widths within
cluster subdivisions and nonconforming R-10 lots throughout the city. Since
October 2022, the UDO has enforced the 30" standard to reduce equipment
encroachments, but staff must often address the issue. Nonconforming lots not
located in subdivisions may have a 4’ side setback, allowing units to have no
setbacks.
Public Hearing Comments:
1)    Dean & Rachelle Warnecke, 311 Firefly Lane, submitted a comment, and the
Deputy Clerk read the statement. They live in the Prices’ Creek subdivision and
are writing to support the proposed amendment. They believe the amendment would
provide an equitable solution for future homes for both the homeowners and the
City. They said this is especially true for smaller lots like theirs, with only
a six-foot side easement.
2)    Brian Kimball, 786 Skipjack Circle, submitted a comment read by the
Deputy Clerk. He said the proposed text has raised valid concerns regarding the
enforcement of setback regulations and the impact on property owners. He said
it is crucial to amend the UDO to ensure consistent application of regulations.
Fair treatment of property owners, regardless of their property type, is
essential to maintaining a just and equitable community.
No further comments were made. Mayor Alt closed the public hearing.
2.   Mayor Alt opened the Public Hearing for Text Amendment-Section 3.12.B.2
Driveways.
      Ms. Meehan provided an overview of the Amendment the Board of Adjustment
requested on September 24, 2023. The Board granted a variance for a single-
family dwelling unit driveway that did not meet the setback and lot width
provisions found in Section 3.12. The variance was approved for the setback
reduction, but the Board required the applicant to conform to the less than 50%
lot frontage for the driveway. The driveway provisions in the UDO were
discussed, and it was advised that more variances of this nature would be
forthcoming. During the meeting, the board discussed the driveway provisions in
the UDO and anticipated more variances. The consensus of the Board of
Adjustment was that this section of the ordinance should not apply to single-
family or two-family dwelling units and that a text amendment should be
submitted to the Planning Board.
      The Planning Board recommended approval of the zoning text amendment
allowing driveway setbacks for single- and two-family dwelling units to be
changed from 10’ to 2’ from the side lot line.
   There were no comments. Mayor Alt closed the Public Hearing.
H.   Agenda
1.   Discussion and Decision Zoning Map Amendment of a Tract of Land on
Jabbertown Road submitted by Gandy, LLC for JC Rentals, LLC.
      The request is to change a portion of a parcel of land located at 558
Jabbertown Road from Light Industrial (LI) to Mobile Home (MH). The property is
adjacent to the Cottages at Prices Creek and Harbor Ridge mobile home park and
is currently zoned MH. The future land use map designates the MH portion of the
property as medium-density residential and the LI portion as low-density
residential. The Planning Board recommended approval of the proposed zoning map
amendment to the Board of Aldermen.
      Alderman Mosteller pointed out that the proposed zoning change would
permit the construction of up to two units on a 5,000-square-foot lot without
any requirements for open space. While she appreciates the owner's intention of
developing small housing structures on the lot, and some adjacent property
owners also believe it would be a better option than light industrial use, she
disapproves of rezoning based solely on the promises of the property owner. The
proposed district has different allowable uses, not just for small single-
family homes. Alderman Mosteller suggests that conditional zoning could be a
helpful tool in situations like this, enabling the community to consider such
projects that could prove beneficial. In conclusion, she believes it would be a
mistake to approve the rezoning based on assumptions of what will be
constructed rather than what is allowed.
      Mayor Alt asked about the potential uses that would be allowed if a
proposed zoning amendment was approved. Ms. Meehan replied that the following
types of dwellings and land uses would be permitted: Single-Family (SF), Multi-
Family (MF), Triplex, Quadruplex Dwellings, Family Care Homes, Manufactured
Homes, Manufactured Home Parks, Mixed Uses, and Modular Homes.
      Mayor Alt explained that for a development project to move forward with a
potential conditional zoning option, a developer must be the one to initiate
the process and sign a development agreement. Ms. Meehan confirmed this
statement and noted that due to the property's size, it would have to undergo a
Major Subdivision review process before any development could occur. She
explained that as part of this process, the developer would need to submit a
proposed development plan outlining the subdivision of lots, infrastructure,
utilities, size of lots, intended uses, and ingress/egress. Mayor Alt also
pointed out that if the rezoning is approved and the developer decides to
pursue a different plan, it will be considered a by-right use.
      Mayor Pro Tem Kelley asked if the developer could request a PUD instead.
Ms. Meehan said it could not because it is in the ETJ, and there must be at
least 25 acres to do a PUD in the ETJ. Mayor Pro Tem Kelly asked if the
developer had met with the adjacent property owners since the last meeting. Mr.
Adrew Laing, 6217 Pebble Shore, came to the podium and said they had met with
the Prices Creek Board and would prefer the property rezoned to Mobile Home
instead of Light Industrial. He said they favor the project but understand that
this discussion strictly concerns zoning.
      Mayor Pro Tem Kelley asked if there were alternative options for the
development project, and Ms. Meehan replied that there were none available at
the moment.
   Alderman Davis made a Motion to DENY the Land Use Consistency Statement,
citing inconsistency with Policy 2.3 of the Land Use Plan and the proposed
Zoning Map Amendment from LI to MH as presented. Seconded by Alderman
Mosteller. Aye: Alderman Davis, Mosteller, Lai, and Carroll. Naye: Mayor Pro
Tem Kelley and Alderman Spencer.  Motion Carried 4-2.
2.   Tree Preservation Ordinance Review:
      Mayor Alt asked if the Board would like to continue discussing the Tree
Ordinance or hold a Public Input Meeting to discuss penalties and enforcement.
Alderman Davis argued that the Tree Ordinance was developed with public input
and should be protected. Developers need to apply for removal to keep track of
where, what, and how many trees are being removed and discuss mitigation for
replacement. Alderman Davis believes that there should be no changes to the
Tree Ordinance. Mayor Pro Tem Kelley agreed, saying that the previous meeting's
situation was unique. The builder provided a topography of the existing trees
and the trees that were removed, and mitigation is in process. The lot was not
clear-cut. Only a section of the lot around the building was removed, and the
penalties should reflect the trees that were removed. Mayor Pro Tem Kelly
stated that the Tree Ordinance is viable and that there should be no changes.
Alderman Carroll said the Board did a good thing at the last meeting and
compromised. He said it was agreed to reduce a fine that maybe should not have
been reduced, but a good, thorough discussion helped to come to a conclusion.
He is not in favor of making any changes to the Ordinance at this time. Mayor
Alt addressed the question of whether the Board has the authority to make
modifications based on the circumstances. He consulted with the City Attorney,
who confirmed that the Board has full authority. Mayor Alt thanked the Board
for having a productive discussion. He announced that the Tree Ordinance would
remain unchanged.
3.   Comprehensive Master Plan Steering Committee-Committees and Board
Recommendations.
      Mayor Alt gave an overview and explained on December 20, 2023, the Board
of Aldermen requested that members of several existing Boards and Committees
serve on the Steering Committee for the Comprehensive Master Plan. The citizen
and the local business owner appointments will be announced after the
completion of the interviews. The breakdown is as follows:
 
(1) Beautification(1) Historic Preservation          (1) Board of Adjustment
                   Commission
(1) Forestry      (2) Planning Board (1-City and 1-  (1) Local Business Owner
                   ETJ)
(1) Citizen       (1) Parks and Recreation Committee
   The following have been selected from each respective board as
representatives for the Steering Committee.
 
Sue Hodgin and Chris Jones (ETJ),   Kate Seigler, Board of Adjustment
Planning Board
Jim McKee, Historic Preservation     Larry Ashley, Beautification Committee
Commission
Roberta Dosher, Parks and Recreation Scott Len, Forestry Committee
Committee
   Mayor Pro Tem Kelley made a Motion to approve the above members for the
Comprehensive Master Plan Steering Committee, seconded by Alderman Carroll.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
4.    Sidewalk State Grant
      Ms. Therrien explained that the hospital may get a sidewalk along North
Howe Street due to a State Grant submitted by the Regional Planning
Organization in 2017-2018. The state reached out, saying that the project had
become a top priority, and asked if the City still wanted to pursue it. The
City requested the project to be moved to 2024-25 due to lack of funding. The
City will need to allocate $60,000 from the Capital Account for the 80/20
grant. The project could change in cost, and a pedestrian crosswalk may be
needed.
      The Board agreed to support the project and work towards allocation.
Mayor Pro Tem Kelley made a Motion to proceed with the State funding for State
Project # EB-5982 to construct sidewalks on Howe Street abutting the hospital
under an 80%-20% split with the City’s share to be estimated at $60,000 which
shall be paid for out of the capital fund. Second by Alderman Lai. Unanimous
Vote; Motion Carried.
   Break   7:12 p.m.
   Return   7:18 p.m.       
5.    Discussion of Sunny Point Property
   Alderman Mosteller began the discussion with these statements requested
verbatim.
   By way of background…
   “In 2020, for the purpose of conservation, the Board of Aldermen voted
unanimously to begin discussions with the NC Wildlife Resources Commission for
the sale of the 441-acre Southport tract that’s part of White Springs Natural
Heritage Area.
   With action by the Board of Aldermen, the NC Wildlife Resources Commission
then received the endorsement of Wildlife’s Land Acquisition Committee allowing
their staff to pursue funding opportunities to purchase Southport’s portion of
the White Springs Natural Heritage Area.
   Why has the NC Wildlife Resources Commission continued to pursue the
purchase of the Southport parcel?
   In efforts to secure the rare wildlife habitat, the NC Wildlife Resources
Commission has previously purchased two parcels of land that are part of the
White Springs Natural Heritage Area adjacent to the Southport property. NC
Wildlife acknowledges the Southport tract of this Heritage Natural Area
contains some of the most important habitat of any of the tracts conserved in
and around MOTSU.
   There is a high concentration of wildlife “Species of Greatest Conservation
Need” or “priority species” as identified by the North Carolina Wildlife Action
Plan that occur on the tract. Species of Greatest Conservation Need (priority
species) are defined as, “species that are currently rare or have been
designated as at-risk of extinction. Many of the priority wildlife species that
rely on the habitat of the Southport tract are in significant population
decline in our state. NC Wildlife Resources Commission is best suited to manage
the tract appropriately in order to sustain high quality habitat for these
priority species, and staff are already managing the adjacent NC Wildlife
Resources Commission owned property successfully. Expanding ownership to
include the Southport tract will enhance proper management and provide habitat
connectivity for these species.
   In 2021, NC Wildlife received a NC Land and Water Fund Grant award that
would provide partial funds to purchase the Southport tract.
   Since that time, NC Wildlife has continued to work on the funding plan and
has received a second grant with the hope of protecting in perpetuity the
land’s significant wildlife habitat conservation value.
   This land is of the highest natural significance rating as documented by the
NC Natural Heritage Program. Recognized by the state as a Significant Natural
Heritage Area, this tract of land, known as the White Springs Natural Heritage
Area, is also identified in the Southport Comprehensive Plan. Our comprehensive
plan names our community values, guides our land use policies and decisions,
and provides the underpinning for our Unified Development Ordinance.
   Noted in our comprehensive plan, fragile areas include coastal wetlands,
complex natural areas, areas sustaining remnant species and prime wildlife
habitats.
   Policy 2.21 states: “Southport supports the protection and preservation of
its environmentally sensitive areas and fragile areas.
   Policy 2.19 plainly states that, “…residential, commercial, and industrial
development should not be supported in Natural Heritage Areas…”
   On page 54 in our Comprehensive Plan, it states… “The North Carolina Natural
Heritage Program identifies significant natural heritage areas within North
Carolina of which three are located in the City of Southport.” Map 8 in our
Comprehensive Plan depicts these Significant Natural Heritage Areas which
includes the Southport - White Springs Natural Heritage Area.
   On page 133 it states, “On the future land use map, there are some areas
that are considered least suitable for development…in most cases, they are
considered least suitable because it is a park or other Protected Land or
Significant Natural Heritage Area.”
   On page 28, it states that a land use plan is intended to accomplish four
primary objectives…one of which says a land use plan is intended … “To preserve
wildlife habitat and wetlands necessary to support threated and federally
protected species.”
   NC endangered and threated species on this land include the Carolina Gopher
Frog, the Ornate Chorus Frog, the Eastern Chicken Turtle and five other
amphibian and reptile priority species are known to occur on the tract and a
further 19 priority amphibian and reptile species are likely to occur on the
tract but have not yet been surveyed. Only 7 populations of the Gopher Frog
remain in North Carolina out of over 32 populations documented historically.
And the Southport Tract has 1 of the 7 populations that are left. What we need
to understand is these animals breed in the pond and spend the rest of their
time in the uplands. Traveling 1 to 2 miles to their summer burrow year after
year. In their words, NC Wildlife Resources wishes to proactively conserve
these rare species, which are declining rapidly due to habitat loss from human
impacts, to prevent their populations from going extinct in our state.
   Finally, this land is zoned Open Space and the Comprehensive Plan names the
appropriate and inappropriate uses in Open Space District Zoning. Page 148
   “Appropriate uses would be… City Parks and Recreation, additional City
facilities that help preserve and protect the natural environment, cultural
heritage, and areas that are environmentally sensitive and fragile.”
   “Inappropriate uses would be multi-family developments, residential and non-
residential uses, and industrial operations.”
   In the Unified Development Ordinance, that we refer to as the UDO, Open
Space District is defined as, “Areas of special public interest that should be
placed in a zone protected from any development other than improvements or uses
undertaken by the City of Southport.”
   Southport’s UDO does not list mining as an allowable use in any zone. I
referenced New Hanover’s UDO to understand which zoning district would
typically allow mining. Mining is listed as an industrial use. Mining is
inconsistent with the Open Space District intended uses in both the
Comprehensive Plan and our UDO.
   Uses undertaken by the city should be consistent with the Comprehensive Plan
and the UDO. Again, inappropriate uses in Open Space District includes non-
residential uses and industrial operations.
∙   What are our values? … Southport’s Comprehensive Plan recognizes the need
to protect Natural Heritage Areas.
∙   Industrialization of this site would be inconsistent with the policies and
appropriate Open Space uses in our Comprehensive Plan.
∙   In the table of permitted uses in the UDO? the allowed uses in Open Space
District do not include commercial or industrial uses.
∙   The City’s Real Estate Appraisal for the Southport-White Springs Natural
Heritage Area tract identified the highest and best uses as Conservation,
Recreation, and Timber.
   Reading from the NC Wildlife Resources Commission Land Acquisition Form
filled out by a staff Biologist, it states, and I quote, “The largest pond on
the Southport tract was the only pond where any gopher frog egg masses were
found in the last five years of surveys of all the ponds in this area. As such
mining, wells, solar facilities, or other hydrology altering activity on the
tract could lead to the extirpation of this entire gopher frog population.”
Which means gone.
   At the end of the day, the Southport tract is part of the “White Springs
Natural Heritage Area” and is of the highest natural significance rating as
documented by the NC Natural Heritage Program. I want to repeat this statement
and a few comments by NC Wildlife… NC Wildlife Resources Commission wishes to
proactively conserve these rare species, which are declining rapidly due to
habitat loss from human impacts, to prevent their populations from going
extinct in our state. NC Wildlife Resources is best suited to manage the tract
appropriately in order to sustain high quality habitat for these priority
species, and staff are already managing the adjacent NC Wildlife Resources
owned property successfully. Expanding ownership to the Southport tract will
enhance proper management and provide habitat connectivity for these species.
   Southport’s Comprehensive Plan and Unified Development Ordinance support the
sale of this significant Natural Heritage Area to NC Wildlife Resources to
protect the property’s significant conservation value in perpetuity. “
   “I would like to invite NC Wildlife Resources Biologist Jeff Hall to the
podium for additional comments and to answer any questions of my fellow board
members.”
       Alderman Spencer inquired about the location of the essential pond for
gopher frogs' habitat. Mr. Jeff Hall, who was present at the meeting, clarified
that the City-owned side of the property has the most suitable ponds needed for
the habitats. However, Alderman Spencer pointed out that the area had
previously been dirt-mined. Mr. Hall acknowledged that the main pond, which is
essential for habitation, is located a little further away from the mined area.
He added that although gopher frogs are in the pond located in the mined area,
they are not thriving because the environment is not conducive to conservation.
In response to Mayor Pro Tem Kelley's question, Mr. Hall confirmed that the
pond where the gopher frogs were doing best is a naturally occurring pond.
Alderman Carroll stated that the Board needs to decide whether to continue
conserving the property or explore alternative options like payment to the city
for mining. Alderman Carroll expressed his support for allowing mining for
profit. However, he also acknowledged that this could threaten the gopher frog
population. Mr. Hall agreed that mining activities would not be sustainable for
the gopher frog's habitat. Mayor Alt said there are many unknown questions.
With the water/sewer merger with the county, it is unsure if the county will
include this property as a sewer asset. If so, there may be no need for
discussion on the matter. He advised the City Manager to continue talks with
the County to determine if they will want the funds associated with the
property. The Mayor also suggested having the Polote Corporation for mining
sand discuss with Wildlife Conservation to see if an agreement for protection
and utilization can be made and then return to the Board. Alderman Mosteller
disagreed and said she did not believe the Wildlife Commission wanted to
purchase the property to work something out with Polote. Manager Therrien said
that the state had made an offer for the property, which she said was a little
less than the city's appraisal. She said she had talked with the city’s
appraiser, who said it was a viable appraisal. Alderman Carroll asked if the
City owned the mineral rights. Ms. Therrien said that she would find out. The
discussion continued, focusing on determining the county's interest in the
property included in the water/sewer merger. The Board also discussed finding
out the amount of sand that was previously mined and for how much, as well as
getting an acceptable offer from NC Wildlife for a potential sale.
Additionally, they discussed exploring the possibility of Polote Mining working
with Wildlife Preservation to determine if any agreements can be worked out.
6.    Request to Hire a Realtor to Represent the City
       A proposal has been put forward by Alderman Davis to hire a professional
realtor who would represent the City when buying, leasing, or selling
properties. The aim is to have an experienced representative who can assist
with the City's growing needs. The City has been actively searching for
available properties to meet these needs. Alderman Davis believes hiring a
realtor to locate properties, negotiate deals, and handle legal procedures is
essential, just as the City hires legal services for other needs. She believes
that the city would be well-served by a professional realtor, and it would also
relieve the burden on the city manager. Alderman Davis suggests that the best
way to proceed is to go outside the local network and seek recommendations and
credentials from the Cape Fear Board of Realtors. She recommends that the Board
provide direction to the City Manager, who would then give direction to the
Realtor and report back to the Board.
      Alderman Davis motioned for the City to retain a real estate agent for
services as needed and to give the City Manager authority to search beyond the
city limits for the realtor. Second by Alderman Mosteller. Aye: Alderman Davis,
Mosteller, Carroll, Kelley, and Lai. Naye: Alderman Spencer. Motion Carried 5-1
7.   Real Estate Negotiation Process
      Alderman Davis has suggested that the Board should inform the public
about the name, location, and intended use of any property they consider
purchasing before entering a closed session. She believes that making the
public ask for this information is unfair. If the Board is going to discuss
buying property, they should disclose this information to the public. Alderman
Carroll agreed that the Board should be transparent but believes sharing
information about the property they want to buy upfront may affect
negotiations. Alderman Mosteller said that the Board will disclose all the
information about the property and its purpose during a viable negotiation.
Then, it will be reviewed publicly before a decision is made. Alderman Davis
disagreed and said that the public should know everything upfront. Mayor Pro
Tem Kelley believes that the public should be informed if the property is of
significant interest and worthy of potential purchase. Manager Therrien said
that sometimes sellers want to remain private, so they can't always reveal the
information about the property they want to buy, and sellers may back away from
a possible sale.
      Alderman Davis made a Motion to disclose to the public the purpose of
purchasing the real estate, parcel ID, address, and owner's name before
entering a Closed Session. There was no second. Motion died.
I.   Committee Reports
      Mayor Alt provided a brief update on the ABC Board. He mentioned that
they are implementing new policies and procedures, cleaning up their storage
space and that the lottery system is functioning well.
      Alderman Mosteller presented her final report to the Parks and Recreation
Committee. She announced becoming the Liaison for the Beautification and
Forestry Committees. In her report, she expressed sincere gratitude and
appreciation for all the achievements and projects the Parks and Recreation
Committee completed over the past several years.   
      Alderman Mosteller has announced that her first meeting as the
Beautification Committee Liaison will occur next week. She summarized the
committee's accomplishments over the past years and expressed gratitude for
their hard work. She also stated that she is looking forward to promoting new
projects. Additionally, she announced that the next annual city clean-up will
be on February 3rd.   
      As the newly appointed liaison for the Forestry Committee, Alderman
Mosteller shared the committee's accomplishments and ongoing efforts. She
reminded everyone that the Forestry Committee meetings are on the second
Tuesday of the month.
   Alderman Carroll said the Historic Preservation Commission has made
significant progress on the final draft. The draft will now be presented to the
Planning Board in a joint meeting for review before it is presented to the
Board of Aldermen.
J.   Manager’s Report
   Manager Therrien issued a statement urging people to verify information on
social media as it may not always be accurate. She also provided her phone
number for those seeking factual information.
K.   Mayor’s Comments
   Mayor Alt has announced that the Martin Luther King Day celebration will
occur on January 15th at 2:30 p.m. The celebration will start with a parade at
the Fire Department. Additionally, on January 30th, fifteen mayors and State
Representatives, Charlie Miller and Tom Rabon, will attend the annual Mayor's
meeting in Brunswick County. Mayor Alt also announced that Mayor Pro Tem Kelley
will represent him at the RPO meeting while he is out of the country.
L.    Staff Reports:
These are provided in the agenda packets.
M.    Board Comments
   Alderman Spencer appreciated the Mayor's term “compromise.” He believes it
is essential to work together to find the best solutions for the City.
   Alderman Mosteller mentioned a newsletter available on the City's website
that explains how members are appointed to various committees and boards by the
Board of Aldermen. The newsletter also states that the Board has the authority
to remove any committee or board member. While this may be technically true,
Alderman Mosteller pointed out that the City relies on the contributions of
volunteers who work to improve our quality of life. She thanked all the
volunteers for their dedication and service.
N.    A Motion was made by Alderman Carroll to adjourn the meeting and second
by Alderman Spencer.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried .
   Adjourn- 8:45 p.m.
   ____________________                __________________________
Mayor, Rich Alt                Deputy Clerk, Tanya Shannon
JANUARY 17, 2024
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
JANUARY 17, 2024  INDIAN TRAIL MEETING HALL
SOUTHPORT, N.C.   9:00 a.m.
 
PRESENT: Mayor Alt, Mayor Pro-tem Kelley, Aldermen Mosteller, Lai, Davis,
Carroll and Spencer
STAFF PRESENT:
Bonnie Therrien, City Manager
Dorothy Dutton, Asst City Manager/Clerk
ChyAnn Ketchum, Public Information Officer   
OTHERS PRESENT:
Bob Liepa, State Port Pilot    
A)   Call to Order
Mayor Alt called the meeting to order at 9:00 a.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Lowe Davis provided the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
Mayor Alt led everyone in reciting the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)   Approval of Agenda
Aldermen Lai made a motion to approve the agenda. The motion was seconded by
Mayor Pro-tem Kelley. All ayes. Motion carried.
E)   Agenda
City Manager Bonnie Therrien welcomed the Board and said that she was happy to
hold the orientation for the Board because local government is a passion of
hers. She added that she feels very strongly about the Council-Manager form of
government.
F)    Description of Board Binders
She asked Assistant City Manager Dorrie Dutton to review the items that were in
their City binders.
G)    Structure of Government
Ms. Therrien then began her presentation on the role of the Mayor, Mayor Pro-
tem and Aldermen, and the City Charter. She shared a story from her past when
she worked with an eleven-member Board who hated each other set the town
backwards. Ms. Therrien read through the guidelines that make a Board
successful, including respect and honesty. Any one Alderman cannot commit the
City to any position without a vote or consent by the entire Board. She said
that the Mayor the City Manager should be the one who corresponds with the
media. Members of the Board should not be involved with the City employees and
their duties.
Alderman Carroll asked how they get any new managers to continue with the
current policies and practices. Ms. Therrien said that priority setting and
giving goals to the Manager when there is a change. She also added that there
is no reason why a Manager would leave if the Board is a good Board. Ms.
Therrien said that there is a manager’s Code of Ethics through the
International City/County Managers Association (ICMA). The Assistant City
Manager acts as the eyes and ears for the Manager, and acts as an extension of
the Manager.
Assistant City Manager/City Clerk Dorrie Dutton explained the role and
responsibility of the City Clerk.
   Ms. Therrien said that Staff resources are extremely limited, and they
should focus on the direction given by the entire Board. The Board should not
be involved with consultants, negotiations, applicants, or other government
entities as individuals. She asked the Board to please let her know about any
personnel complaints right away so she can address them. She cannot affect the
culture of the organization unless she knows about them. She urged the citizens
and social media to direct all questions to her. Ms. Therrien then distributed
a little quiz for the Board with questions about different responsibilities.
There was some discussion about the role of the City Attorney. Mayor Alt asked
if the Board members had liability insurance to cover themselves and the City
if they did something foolish. Ms. Dutton said she would reach out to the NCLM
for clarification.
   Ms. Therrien continued reviewing the Rules of Procedure and reminded the
Board that there was now a subcommittee to help review the existing document
and make suggestions. She explained that Chief Charles Drew is the Emergency
Incident Commander, and they work together to notify the Board of any
emergencies.
   Ms. Therrien urged the Board to ask questions and voice concerns before the
Board meetings. City staff is here to make the Board look good. Alderman
Carroll agreed but also stated that he doesn’t want to limit discussion at the
meetings. There was discussion about the Conflict of Interest and Ethics
policies. Any conflict of interest should be put in writing for the Board of
Alderman and should be announced at the Board meetings. The current Conflict of
Interest policy allows the Board member to remain present but cannot
participate. And Alderman Davis added that if you consider whether some is
ethical or in conflict, then consider it as a newspaper headline. If you
wouldn’t want it in the news, you probably shouldn’t do it. And Ms. Therrien
said that the Board should obey all the laws and rules of the City, that the
Board does not have any special privileges.
H.    Guidelines for the Board
There was a ten minute recess before the next part of orientation. Once
resumed, Assistant City Manager Dorrie Dutton presented information to the
Board about the different types of Board meetings: Regular, Special, Emergency,
and Closed. She reviewed the type of notices that are required for each type of
meeting. Ms. Dutton then explained the different types of notice that are
required for public hearings, budget adoption, zoning amendments, and
annexations. She explained the remote participation policy, open meetings law
and the different between administrative, and legislative decisions. Ms. Dutton
also explained the NC Public Records Law and what is exempt. A public record
has more to do with content than the device or method of exchange. This means
that a personal cellular phone can still contain public records if work items
are being discussed. Lastly, Ms. Dutton explained that travel and training
policy for the Board.
I)    Date for Next Orientation Session
   The Board discussed possible dates for the second part of orientation. They
finally agreed on February 12, 2024, at 9:00 a.m.
Mayor Alt added that he was looking for consensus about a topic that has been
in the news. He would like to ask the City Manager to write something about the
increase in insurance rates that has been announced. He asked if the Board had
any heartache about it, and they did not. While the Mayor is out of town, Ms.
Therrien will compose a letter to the legislators opposing the increase.
J. Adjourn
   Mayor Alt thanked everyone for attending and said there was a lot of good
information. Alderman Spencer made a motion to adjourn. Alderman Lai seconded
the motion. All ayes Motion carried. Mayor Alt adjourned the meeting at 11:02
a.m.
               
                     ________________________________
                     Rich Alt, Mayor
                     City of Southport
_______________________________
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
Assistant City Manager
FEBRUARY 5, 2024
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN Regular Meeting Minutes
FEBRUARY 5, 2024  COMMUNITY BUILDING
SOUTHPORT, N.C.    
 
PRESENT: Mayor Alt, Mayor Pro-tem Kelley
Aldermen Mosteller, Carroll, Lai, and Spencer
ABSENT: Alderman Davis
STAFF PRESENT:
Bonnie Therrien, City Manager Dorothy Dutton, Asst City Manager/City Clerk
Allayna Dail, Interim Comm. Relations Director Tom Zilinek, City Engineer
Todd Coring, Police Chief Tony Burke, Police Major
Lance Flint, Finance Director ChyAnn Ketchum, Public Information Officer
OTHERS PRESENT:
Sam Boswell, Transportation Planner, Cape Fear Council of Governments
Shirley Sullivan     
Terry Duff
A)   Call to Order
Mayor Alt called the meeting to order at 9:00 a.m.
B)   Invocation
Alderman Marc Spencer provided the invocation.
C)   Pledge of Allegiance
Mayor Alt led everyone in reciting the Pledge of Allegiance.
D)    Public Comment
Mr. Terry Duff, a resident of Bethel Road, said he was speaking on behalf of
approximately 275 citizens against the mining that is proposed for the Sunny
Point property. He mentioned the state wildlife group that spoke against the
operation. He said that the property was posted in two places. He said that he
had spoken to a couple of City departments, and no one was able to tell him
more about the hunting lease, or whose jurisdiction it was for law enforcement.
It is rumored that there is a homeless person camping on the property. Who is
he supposed to call? He also said that mining is not an allowed use on the
property. He said he wanted more information about the hunting club that leases
the property, and what firearms are allowed. Mayor Alt said that the City staff
will get back in touch with him with answers. Mr. Duff thanked the Board for
the opportunity to speak.
Shirley Sullivan, resident of 5002 Seaward Court, thanked Mayor Alt for all of
his guidance during his month as Mayor. The Mayor and City Manager work
closely, and the City Manager is so valuable. She referenced some comments that
a Board member made about another Board member. She urged elected officials and
the public to think more carefully about the things they post on social media.
They should consider whether the comments will be helpful or divisive.
D)   Approval of Agenda
  Alderman Mosteller made a motion to approve the agenda. The motion was
seconded by Alderman Carroll. All ayes. Motion carried.
E)   Agenda
1. The first item was consideration of an IT Contract with a firm called
Katalyst. Assistant City Manager Dorrie Dutton explained the reason for the
item. The current IT consultant has worked for the City for about twenty years.
The City has never requested proposals from other companies. The City received
two proposals from companies, interviewed both and are making the
recommendation to contract with Katalyst. Dylan Warner and Luke Johnson, from
Katalyst were able to explain the proposal and answer some questions. A motion
was made by Alderman Lai to approve contracting with Katalyst for managed
services. Mayor Pro-tem Kelley seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.
There was further discussion about any site visits that would be needed, which
would range in cost based on the personnel that assisted.
2. Mr. Sam Boswell, a transportation planner with the Cape Fear Council of
Governments, reviewed the Brunswick County Comprehensive Transportation Plan.
Comprehensive Transportation Plans used to be referred to as thoroughfare
plans. The report is (50) pages, with a (300) page appendix. There is a
steering committee that attends meetings and conducts outreach throughout the
region. The municipalities that are included formally adopt the plan, and the
NCDOT adopts the plan. In this proposed plan, there are (166) project
recommendations. Some of the projects include modernization, parking ideas for
costal communities, and bicycle and pedestrian plans. A comprehensive
transportation plan usually gets completed every five to six years. Mayor Alt
said he felt there was a disconnect from what staff was doing and what the
Board was aware of. He said that staff and the elected officials would have to
work together moving forward. Alderman Mosteller said that she had attended a
few meetings, and the Board is always invited. She suggested the City should
look into updating the transportation plan. NCDOT scores projects every two
years. Alderman Frank Lai motioned to adopt the Comprehensive Transportation
Plan. Alderman Spencer seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.
3. Allayna Dail, the Interim Community Relations Director reviewed the
financial aspect of the 4th of July Festival. She said the City ended up
contributing approximately $78,000 last year. The Festival Committee spent
about $142,000. Alderman Kelley said that it was a huge feather in the City’s
cap to keep the festival going, and staff does a great job.
4. Dorrie Dutton, Assistant City Manager, did a brief presentation on the
right-of-way encroachments in the City. She provided several options for moving
forward, including not enforcing them at all, allowing the existing
encroachments to stay, and giving the residents a period of time to remove all
the encroachments. Alderman Kelley made a motion to ask the City Manager to set
up Public Meetings for further discussion. Alderman Spencer seconded. All ayes.
Motion carried.
5. Finance Director Lance Flint explained that the Investment Policy creates
compliance with the general statutes. He said that all the City funds make 5%
or more interest. There are three CD’s that have been rolling over every six
months. Mr. Flint added that the City was already abiding by the rules, we just
didn’t have a written policy. Alderman Mosteller made a motion adopt the
Investment Policy as presented. Alderman Spencer seconded. All ayes. Motion
carried.
6. Police Chief Coring, and Major Burke reviewed the findings of the traffic
and speeding study on Fodale Avenue. The traffic counter identified 9:00 a.m.
to 10:00 p.m. as the peak travel time, but aside from that, there is no
specific time period identified as the busiest.
Mayor Alt stated there would be a ten minute break.
7. Bonnie Therrien, City Manager stated that there were several outstanding
issues regarding the utility merger with Brunswick County. Does the City want
to reduce the rates now? What amount of staffing will be kept? Should some
roads be paved with the funds we currently have? She stated that the City is
able to use general fund, despite a common misconception. Finance Director
Lance Flint explained that there are some differences in the ways the City
bills customers and the way the County bills customers. If the City changes the
base rate, that will equate to a savings of $550 a year per account. He said
there are two options. Option 1 would mean a reduction of rates and targeting
no further growth by the City. That would be an automatic savings of $46 a
month. Option 2 entails getting closer to the County rates by reducing the base
and consumption rates. That would be a $62 reduction per month for City
customers. But this option requires the use of about $1million of fund balance.
Mayor Pro-tem Kelley motioned to move forward with Option 2. Alderman Lai
seconded. All ayes. Motion carried.
Next was a discussion about staffing, particularly in the Public Services
Department. Mr. Tom Stanley said that he thinks he has the facilities position
filled. He said that the negotiations for positions is a tough one for him
because he has to report back to his staff. There was discussion about whether
to ask the County for one or two positions. Mayor Pro-tem Kelley motioned to
allow the City Manager to request two positions move to the County. Alderman
Mosteller seconded. All ayes. Motion carried.
City Manager Therrien said next was a discussion and decision about the paving
of roads. There was a map included in the Board packet. City Engineer Tom
Zilinek said that he is working on a complete list of roads and prioritizing
them. He said the numbers were shocking, because so many need to be paved.
Alderman Mosteller made a motion to move $1.1million of the general fund to
cover the paving. Alderman Lai seconded. All ayes. Motion carried.
Tom Stanley explained that a new vacuum truck was needed. The current truck is
a 2007 model, and they have to put a lot of money into it to keep it running.
He said it is a good time to purchase one with the funds in the water/sewer
fund. Mayor Pro-tem Kelley asked what the vacuum truck is used for. Tom Stanley
said the truck is used for clearing storm drains and manholes. Alderman
Mosteller said that she would be in favor of transferring $350,000 from water/
sewer to purchase the truck and made a motion. Mayor Pro-tem Kelley seconded.
All ayes. Motion carried.  
Next, there was discussion about transferring $1.2million from the water/sewer
fund to the general fund. Alderman Spencer made a motion to transfer the $1.2
million into the general fund. Mayor Pro-tem Kelley seconded. All ayes. Motion
carried.  
Mayor Hatem announced that there would be a break for lunch at 12:23 p.m.
Alderman Lombardi and Alderman Allen had to leave early.
8. City Engineer Tom Zilinek said that the City needed an appraisal of the
water and sewer assets before the merger is final. An RFQ was made, and three
companies provided bids. One of the firms can do an appraisal for $17,000.
Alderman Lai made a motion to select Raftelis for $17,000. Mayor Pro-tem Kelley
seconded. Alderman Carroll was a no; but all others were in favor. Majority
rules, motion carried.
9. Ms. Therrien explained that the City has been unsuccessful in hiring a new
Director of Development Services. It was her recommendation to hire a
recruiter. Ms. Dutton and Ms. Fortuna, the Human Resources Director,
interviewed a couple of companies, and the recommendation is to contract with
Fing Great People. The cost will be 20-25% of the salary that is offered to the
person selected. Alderman Mosteller made a motion to approve contracting with
Find Great People for a cost not to exceed $30,000. Alderman Lai seconded.
Alderman Spencer voted no. Motion carried.
10. City Manager Therrien said that she needed any legislative priorities by
the end of February. Mayor Alt asked the Board to put on their thinking caps
and get creative. The Board was asked to send all their ideas to the City
Manager.
11. Alderman Spencer said that he had met with the Cemetery Committee a week
ago and they were looking for more direction about what their focus should be.
Alderman Mosteller said the committee was formed to protect and maintain the
historic character, seasonal flowers, citizen engagement, a review and
recommendation of ordinances, grounds maintenance items, identify potential
funding, and to work with other City committees to achieve goals. Alderman
Spencer said he would have them review the ordinances.
12. Bonnie Therrien said that her contract ends at the end of June, so the
Board has to really get moving on the search for a replacement. The Board asked
Ms. Therrien to help by advertising along the east coast, and with ICMA. There
would be a panel of staff for the interview, an outside panel made up of
retired City Managers, and then the Board of Aldermen. Alderman Mosteller said
that it sounded like Ms. Therrien had a good handle on what we need to move
forward, and she wants to empower her to move forward, as she made a motion.
Mayor Pro-tem Kelley seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.
F.) City Manager Bonnie Therrien said she was going to have someone from the NC
League of Municipalities lead the goal setting meeting on February 13th.
Alderman Lai said he was unavailable on that date, so Ms. Therrien said she
would find another date.
G.) Mayor Pro-tem Kelley thanked everyone for their patience as she arrived
late because of an eye appointment. Alderman Spencer said a few words about Joe
Medlin, the former Parks and Recreation Director who had just passed away. He
said that he always had a smile on his face, and we appreciate everything he
did for us.
H.) Mayor Alt read a statement regarding 143-318.11 (a) (5). Closed Session: To
establish, or to instruct the public body's staff or negotiating agents
concerning the position to be taken by or on behalf of the public body in
negotiating (i) the price and other material terms of a contract or proposed
contract for the acquisition of real property by purchase, option, exchange, or
lease; or (ii) the amount of compensation and other material terms of an
employment contract or proposed employment contract.
Ms. Dutton read a request from Mr. Jason Robbins, a City resident, that the
properties be disclosed that the Board was considering. Ms. Therrien read the
list of properties. Alderman Spencer made a motion to enter into Closed
Session. Alderman Carroll seconded. All ayes. Motion carried.  Closed Session
began at 12:47 p.m.  
The Open meeting was resumed at 1:14 p.m. Alderman Carroll made a motion to
adjourn. Alderman Spencer seconded. The meeting was adjourned by Mayor Alt at
1:15 p.m. All ayes. Motion carried.                
                  
_____________________________________
                  Rich Alt, Mayor
                  City of Southport
 
_________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
Assistant City Manager
 
February 8, 2024
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN Regular Meeting Minutes
February 8, 2024  Community Building, 223 E. Bay St.
SOUTHPORT, N.C.   6:00 P.M.
 
Present:    Mayor Rich Alt, Mayor Pro Tem Rebecca Kelley, Alderman Karen
Mosteller, Lowe Davis,    Robert Carroll, Frank Lai and Marc Spencer.    
Absent:   None
Staff:   Manager Bonnie Therrien, Deputy Clerk Tanya Shannon, PIO ChyAnn
Ketchum, City Planner Mo Meehan, Fire Chief Charles Drew, Todd Coring, Police
Chief, Public Services Director Tom Stanley, City Attorney Brady Herman,
Battalion Chief Ralph Treadway, Parks and Rec. Director Heather Hemphill, Lance
Flint, Finance Director; Bob Jarvis, City Engineer; Mike Lavezzo, Building
Inspector; Harlan Pyles, Code Enforcement; Tori Deviney, Permit Technician; and
Brandon Stevens, Deputy Finance Director.
A.    Call to Order: Mayor Rich Alt called the meeting to order at 6.00 p.m.
B.    Mr. Donnie Joyner gave the invocation
C.    Mayor Alt led the Pledge of Allegiance.
Mayor Alt asked for the Board to consider an amendment to the agenda. The
amendment involved moving the Special Presentations item after the agenda item
(C) and moving the Closed Session item (O) to item (8). The meeting would then
return to Open Session to continue the agenda. Alderman Spencer made a motion
to approve. Mayor Pro Tem Kelley seconded the motion. Unanimous Vote; Motion
Carried.
D.   Special Presentations:
Mayor Alt presented a Proclamation in Honor of Black History Month. Alderman
Davis presented a proclamation and a key to the City to Mr. Owen Gidlow in
recognition of his long-term service and commitment to Southport.
Mayor Alt Read the Ethics Statement
E.    Public Comment:
1.   Flick Guerrina, who resides at 710 Dale Ave., is the Deputy Commissioner
of the Cape Fear Regional Jetport. He expressed his concerns about the way city
managers are treated and emphasized the need for respect. He reiterated that
the Board should not make accusations and report information without having all
the facts. He urged the Board to respect each other and give the City Manager
the necessary space to carry out their job effectively.
2.   Norfrette Bellamy. 559 Jabbertown Rd. She feels that the Board has not
been transparent regarding the installation of a sewer line along Jabbertown
Rd. According to her, the city has gone behind the residents' backs. She
believes that there is no benefit for the sewer lines to run down Jabbertown
Rd., and it will only cause inconvenience to the people living on this road.
She suggests that the lines should be installed along Rob Gandy Blvd., the
adjacent road.
3.   Tom Veale, 6480 Walden Pond Lane, has expressed his concerns regarding the
property on Sunny Point. He inquired about the measures that have been
implemented to protect the environment and the endangered wildlife in the event
of Polote's mining activities on the property. Additionally, he also asked
about the entity that would be responsible for overseeing the mining
operations.
4.   Terry Duff, 519 Walden Pond Lane, discussed Sunny Point property's
stewardship. He requested more information regarding the hunting rights
applicable to the property and asked to see the records related to it. He
further commented that the city's actions concerning this property will have an
effect on the nearby properties. He expressed his confusion regarding why
mining is allowed on this city property but not on others if useful minerals
are found there.
5.   Carolee Morris, 6497 Walden Pond Lane, has expressed concerns about the
intended use of the property located at Sunny Point. She believes that the city
should sell it to the NC Wildlife Association with the aim of preserving the
environment and natural habitats. According to her, this will create a legacy
that will never be forgotten.
6.   Sue Hodgin, 608 Cottage Point Way, took the podium to express her
heartfelt sentiments about Mr. Joe Medlin, a dear friend, and long-time
Southport resident. Despite his passing, she believes that he will always be
remembered for his charitable nature and kindness.
7.   Martha Johnson, 227 E. 11th St., would like to remind the Board of their
oath of office and the code of ethics they must abide by while serving the
public.
8.   Jay Royal, 502 Jabbertown Rd., is highly concerned about the proposed
sewer lines that are planned to run down the same road. He has expressed that
the residents on this road have septic systems, and the installation of these
sewer lines could potentially disrupt their sewer systems if the trees and
roots are torn out during the process.
9.   Thad Hill, 519 N. Lord St., is also a property owner at 317 E. 11th St. He
has recently discovered an easement on his property on E. 11th St. that cuts
through his property. After doing some research and getting a survey done, he
discovered that the easement was not in the right place. Thad has been trying
to find a solution to this issue for the past six months and has now requested
assistance from the city to help resolve the matter.
10.    Ron and Dot Madden, 6518 Waldon Pond Lane, have expressed their desire
to see the city take steps to preserve the 440+ acres at Sunny Point. According
to Mr. Madden, the best way to achieve this would be for the city to sell the
property to the NC Wildlife Association. He believes that preserving this land
would have a significant impact on conservation efforts. Mr. Madden has even
offered to purchase the property from the city himself and then sell it to the
Wildlife Association because he genuinely believes it is the right thing to do.
11. Brian Stevens of 503 Cades Trail raised concerns regarding multiple issues.
Firstly, he addressed the rezoning request for 8 acres off Robert Ruark Drive
from R-20 to R-10. Additionally, he expressed his concerns about the
construction work being carried out on Caswell between 12th and 14th Streets.
He also suggested that the board consider closing the streets between Howe and
Moore and on Bay St. Finally, he proposed that Lord and Caswell be converted
into one-way streets.
12.    Ginny Prunty, 5906 Dutchman Creek Rd., asked the Board to table a
decision on Conditional Zoning until after the Comprehensive Land Use Plan has
been updated.
13. Ray Mitchell, 6495 Walden Pond Lane, According to the statement, Sunny
Point has strict limitations, and any decision regarding the property usage,
other than conservation, should be made after careful consideration.
14.    Donnie Joyner, 635 Jabbertown Rd., is opposed to installing sewer lines
on Jabbertown Rd. He believes this decision is unjust towards the generations
living on this road. He suggests that Rob Gandy Blvd., which is currently
nonresidential, would be a more suitable location.
15.   Carolyn Hankins, 526/528 Jabbertown Rd., is against the sewer lines being
directed down Jabbertown Rd. She implored the board to direct them down Rob
Gandy instead.
16.   Ronald Thompson, 115 Thompson Drive, expressed his concern that no
impact, feasibility, or environmental study has been conducted on the impact of
the proposed sewer lines running through Jabbertown Road. He also questioned
whether the State had granted permission to run the lines on the easements. Mr.
Thompson requested that the Board provide more transparency and better
communication with the citizens.
17.    Robbie Jones, 941 E Leonard St, would prefer installing the sewer lines
on Rob Gandy instead of Jabbertown Rd.
18.    Harry Burrell, 6284 Cattail Crt., is against any mining at the Sunny
Point property and would like to see the property sold to Wildlife
Conservation.
19. Pat Kirkman, 119 Park Ave., expressed her concern that the old city
courthouse has not been properly maintained or preserved. She provided a brief
history of the 172-year-old building and asked why more is not being done to
protect it.
20.    Bonnie Bray,115 Quartermaster Dr., provided an update on the Up Your
Arts project. She inquired whether Polote had offered to lease the land at
Sunny Point for mining. Additionally, she asked if an environmental impact
study would be conducted before mining began. Recently, she learned that
Brunswick County might be interested in the property despite having previously
heard that they were not. She questioned how any negotiations with Brunswick
County would be handled. Moreover, she wanted to know what would happen if the
property were sold and what the profits would be used for.
21.   Forest Schuritzer, 300 E. West St., would like to see the Sunny Point
property being environmentally protected and preserved. He said preservation is
more valuable than money.
22.   Angela Hilburger, 6470 Rolling Run Rd., submitted comments read by the
Deputy Clerk. She wrote to encourage the Board to vote to sell the 440+ acre
land to the Wildlife Commission instead of leasing the land for mining by the
Polote Mining Company.
23.    Casely Baldwin submitted comments that were read into the record. She
said a price cannot be put on protecting wildlife and natural resources. She
encouraged the board to sell the Sunny Point property to the Wildlife
Commission.
24   Fred Fiss, who lives at 216 N. Atlantic Ave., submitted comments that were
read into the record. He said that the city is taking steps to evaluate the
trees in Franklin Square Park to ensure they're protected and preserved.
However, he also expressed concern about the trees in the median beside the
city gym. People have been driving over the curb and on top of the roots, which
could be causing damage. Mr. Fiss suggested installing a barrier, such as rope,
to prevent further damage to these areas.
25.    Shirley Sullivan, 5002 Seaward Crt., submitted comments. She would like
the Board to table or deny the Conditional Text Amendment.
26.    Jo B. McCants submitted comments requesting the Board to reconsider the
decision to use Jabbertown Rd. to assist in merging the two sewer systems that
are not intended to benefit the residents of Jabbertown Rd.
   After no further comments, Alderman Mosteller motioned to close public
comment, which Mayor Pro Tem Kelley seconded. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried .
G.   Approval of the Agenda
Mayor Alt proposed a change to the agenda order. He requested that Item 7,
which concerns the Sunny Point Property, be moved to the second position and
Jabbertown Sewer Line to Item 1. The rest of the agenda would then proceed as
originally listed, with the “Special Presentations” item next in line. Mayor
Pro Tem Kelley made a motion to approve the agenda with the amendment, which
Alderman Mosteller seconded. (no vote)
   Alderman Carroll made a friendly amendment to remove item E. (Board
Comments) and item F. (Mayor’s Comments), which was seconded by Mayor Pro Tem
Kelley. Aye: Alderman Carroll, Mosteller, Lai, Kelley, and Spencer. Nay;
Alderman Davis. Motion Carried; 5-1.
    Alderman Spencer made a Motion to approve the final amended agenda,
seconded by Alderman Lai. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.  
H.   Approval of the Consent Agenda 
1. Minutes of the Regular Board of Aldermen Meeting January 5, 2024.
2. Minutes of the Closed Session Meeting January 5, 2024 (sealed)
3. Minutes of the Special Board of Aldermen Meeting January 10, 2024.
4. Minutes of the Regular Board of Aldermen Meeting January 11, 2024.
5. Minutes of the Board of Aldermen Orientation Session January 17, 2024.
6. Minutes of Closed Session Meeting January 24, 2024 (sealed).
Alderman Spencer made a Motion to approve the Consent Agenda seconded by
Alderman Lai. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.  
I.   Agenda
1.   Jabbertown Sewer Line (Carter Hubard, WK Dickson).
Mr. Hubard presented three options for routing the force main for the City's
sewer merger with the County - Jabbertown Road, Rob Gandy Road, and Howe
Street. Mayor Pro Tem Kelley raised a concern about the "Creek Crossing" for
the Rob Gandy option. Mr. Hubard explained that horizontal directional drilling
could mitigate any potential impacts. Ms. Kelley asked about affecting the
water table, and Mr. Hubard clarified it would be above the hardpan and
aquifer. No further questions or concerns were raised.
Alderman Carroll made a Motion to have Rob Gandy Blvd. as the route for the
sewer line to be installed in the new sewer project. Alderman Davis seconded .
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
2.   Discussion of Sunny Point Property (Alderman Carroll)
Alderman Carroll gave an overview of the discussion at the last meeting. He
explained that the Pelote Corporation and the North Carolina Wildlife
Commission are interested in the property at Sunny Point, and the Board
questioned if both organizations could find an agreeable term for both to
utilize the property for each purpose without interfering with their
objectives. Alderman Carroll said that recently, Brunswick County has become
interested in the property for infiltration ponds as well as they were not
previously. The North Carolina Wildlife Commission submitted a letter to the
city stating they would not be interested in purchasing the property to be
shared by Polote Corporation or any company for the excavation of soils.
Therefore, Alderman Carroll stated that the best option is for the City to sell
the property to the NC Wildlife Commission.
Alderman Carroll made a Motion to instruct Mayor Alt to execute the agreement
between the City of Southport and the State of North Carolina Wildlife
Commission for the purchase of approximately 441 acres, less approximately 10
acres, to be retained by the City in the amount of $660,000. The Motion
included the opportunity for each party to make minor corrections to grammar,
language, etc., second by Alderman Mosteller. (no vote)
There was a discussion on the property's use and sale and the expressed
interest from Brunswick County. The land has been appraised and is considered
best used for wildlife conservation, as it was funded by the Clean Water
Management Trust Fund to protect the environment and wildlife. It was advised
by counsel to put the sale on hold until there can be more discussion on
whether the county is interested in utilizing it for negotiations and
agreements with the merger.
Alderman Davis made an amended motion to table a decision until the matter is
resolved with the county and what their interest is, and the negotiations are
completed. Then, the decision is made on whether the property could be sold to
NC Wildlife. (no second)
There was a discussion about the possibility of selling the property to
individual buyers. Some attendees also brought this up during the public
comments section. It was suggested that other conservationists might be
interested in buying the property individually. Alderman Mosteller proposed
that a time frame should be set for deciding. She also pointed out that waiting
for the completion of negotiations with the county merger could take several
weeks or even months.
Alderman Carroll and Davis rescinded their Motions. Alderman Carroll made a new
motion to table a decision until the March regular meeting, then pending
getting additional information and answers to questions about other specifics,
move forward with instructing the Mayor to execute the option agreement and the
State of North Carolina Wildlife for the purchase of approximately 441 acres,
less the approximate 10 acres to be retained by the city in the amount of
$660,000, and include the opportunity for each party to make minor corrections
to grammar, language, etc. Alderman Davis seconded the motion. Aye: Alderman
Carroll, Mosteller, Davis, and Lai. Nay: Mayor Pro Tem Kelley and Alderman
Spencer. Motion Carried 4-2.
Mayor Alt called for a 10-minute break. 8:35 p.m. Returned at 8:47 p.m.
J.   Audit Presentation- (Jay Sharpe, Sharpe Patel PLLC)
   Mr. Jay Sharpe gave an overview of the audit for the 2022-2023 Fiscal Year.
He talked about issues he has found with the accounting systems used by the
City in the past and problems that need to be rectified to have financial
statements in good working order for the future. This report was submitted to
the Local Government Commission in January and is available for review at City
Hall. Overall, he stated that the city is in good shape and has three healthy
funds.
   Mayor Alt raised concerns about a discrepancy of $10 million. He questioned
whether there was money or if it was mistakenly believed that there was money
when there was not. He asked if these funds existed and where they went. Mr.
Patel explained that some of the funds were recorded in various entries and
would need to be reviewed to understand their impact on the bottom line. Mayor
Alt emphasized that a $10 million error would be significant, and Mr. Sharpe
clarified that it was a matter of net worth. The amount was calculated by
subtracting the liabilities from the assets. Mayor Alt asked if the city had
funds that they believed were present but were not and where the error
occurred. In response, Mr. Sharpe stated that he would need to investigate the
precise adjustments to determine the source of the calculation. Mayor Alt said
he would discuss the matter with the City Manager. Mr. Sharpe said that he
would provide the exact changes and adjustments. During the meeting, Mayor Pro
Tem Kelley raised concerns about two recurring issues that have happened in the
past. He asked if there was a plan in place to prevent these issues from
happening again. Manager Therrien suggested reviewing the management letter and
mentioned that Mr. Flint and Ms. Fortuna have already taken steps to prevent
similar situations from happening in the future.
A Motion was made by Mayor Pro Tem Kelley to adopt the 2022-2023 audit with
Sharpe Patel PLLC and approve the contract extension to February 9, 2024, and
second by Alderman Spencer. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.  
Introduction of New Employees: Mike Lavezzo, Building Inspector, and HP Pyles
Code Enforcement Officer, postponed until the next meeting.
Agenda Continued
3.   Discussion and Decision: Text Amendment-Section 3.9.B.5 Setback Exceptions
and Encroachments. (M. Meehan).
City Planner Meehan explained on November 16, 2023, the Planning Board decided
to recommend denial of the Unified Development Ordinance Amendment to Section
3.9.B Setback Exceptions and Encroachments to the Board of Aldermen. The
amendment proposed allowing HVAC generators and similar equipment to encroach
up to 48 inches into a required setback. However, the staff presented an
alternative, allowing for a 42-inch encroachment but not more than 24 inches
from the property line. The justification for this text amendment is to
accommodate smaller lot widths within cluster subdivisions and nonconforming R-
10 lots throughout the city. Nonconforming lots not located in subdivisions may
often have a 4’ side setback; therefore, the units would be allowed to have no
setbacks.
During the discussion, the need for the UDO to specify the impacts on
nonconforming lots with a 4' minimum side setback was raised. Alderman Lai
asked what would happen if the text amendment were denied and the exceptions
were not allowed. He wanted to know where the equipment would be installed. In
response, Ms. Meehan stated that the equipment would have to be installed
either in the front or rear yard. It would have to be placed where it can meet
the existing encroachment of 30' or change the design of the house and reduce
its size. Fire Chief Drew was then asked if maneuvering through 24" of space
with equipment would pose a fire safety hazard. Chief Drew replied that 24"
would be a tight fit for emergency access.
It was proposed to amend the text, and the recommendation was made to send it
back to the Planning Board for review. The primary focus of this amendment
would be on non-conforming lots, which seem to have the most trouble meeting
the setback requirements. However, it was also mentioned that homeowners could
apply for a variance if they had no other options. Mr. Cameron Smith, the
applicant, was called to the podium to clarify if the issue was mainly with
conforming lots. Mr. Smith said he has seen the biggest problem with the 5-6 ft
setbacks, mostly in PUDs. He then explained that it made sense from a building
standpoint and did not always work to put the equipment behind the house since
a generator needs an energy/gas source and cannot be placed anywhere.
A Motion was made by Alderman Davis to deny the Land Use Consistency Statement,
citing inconsistency with Policy 2.14 and 7.22 of the Land Use Plan and the
Zoning Text Amendment for setback encroachments as presented and second by
Alderman Mosteller. (no vote)
There was a discussion, and Alderman Mosteller clarified that she was in favor
of allowing the mechanicals in an R-10 environment with a 4’ encroachment. She
recommended sending the proposed amendment back to the Planning Board to
address language for non-conforming lots.
A vote was taken on the Motion. Aye, Alderman Davis. Nay: Alderman Kelley,
Spencer, Mosteller, Lai, and Carroll. Motion failed. 1-5
Alderman Davis made a Motion to send the Text Amendment-Section 3.9.B.5 Setback
Exceptions and Encroachments back to the Planning Board for more clarification
and review, second by Alderman Mosteller. Aye: Alderman Davis, Lai, Kelley, and
Mosteller. Nay: Alderman Spencer and Carroll. Motion carried 4-2. 
4.   Discussion and Decision: Text Amendment- Section 3.12.B.2 Driveways. (M.
Meehan)
Ms. Meehan reported that they approved a recommendation to the Board of
Aldermen during the Planning Board meeting on November 16, 2023. The
recommendation was in favor of a Unified Development Ordinance Amendment to
Section 3.12.B.4 Driveways. This amendment would decrease the driveway setback
for single and two-family dwelling units from 10’ to 2’ from the side lot
lines. Additionally, the staff has asked for the 50’ distance between two
driveways entering the same lot to only apply to nonresidential uses.
Alderman Carroll made a Motion to approve the Land Use Consistency Statement,
citing consistency with Policy 2.14 and 7.22 of the Land Use Plan and the
Zoning Text Amendment for driveways as presented. Mayor Pro Tem Kelley
seconded. (no vote)
In discussion, Alderman Davis stated that the text amendment applies to every
property owner in the city. She said that anyone disadvantaged by the situation
and feels they need only a 2ft setback, etc., can go to the Board of Adjustment
and apply for a variance. Mayor Pro Tem Kelley said that the 2ft setback came
to the Aldermen because it was requested by the Board of Adjustments because
they have seen it often enough to recommend a sweeping change instead of
consistently getting requests for variances. She feels that this is a case that
the Aldermen should certainly consider.
Alderman Carroll rescinded his motion.
Alderman Spencer made a motion to separate the proposed amendments and adopt
the Consistency Statement for approval of Policy 2.14 Section 3.12.B.4
e) No nonresidential driveway 
(nearest edge) shall be located within 10 feet of a side lot property line except in the case of a shared driveway 
(single curb/access point) utilized by two (2) or more lots. Residential
driveways shall not be located within two (2) feet of side lot property lines.
And second by Mayor Pro Tem Kelley. Aye: Alderman Spencer, Kelley, Lai,
Mosteller, and Carroll. Nay: Alderman Davis . Motion Carried 5-1.
Alderman Spencer made a Motion to send Policy 7.22 Section 3.12.B.4.a) Two (2)
nonresidential driveways entering the same street from a single lot shall be
permitted only if the minimum distance between the closest edges of the
driveways equals or exceeds 50 feet. Back to the Planning Board for further
review. Second by Mayor Pro Tem Kelley. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried. 
5.   Request for Public Hearing- Text Amendment: Mixed Uses in Highway
Commercial.
Mayor Pro Tem Kelley motioned to call a public hearing on March 14, 2024, to
amend Section 3.5 Table 3.1 and 3.7.F of the Unified Development Ordinance,
seconded by Alderman Spencer. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried .
6.   Request for Public Hearing -Map Amendment- Robert Ruark Drive.
Alderman Mosteller made a motion to call for a public hearing on March 14,
2024, for a Zoning Map Amendment on a tract of land on Robert Ruark Drive from
R-20 to R-10, second by Alderman Lai . Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.  
7.   Conditional Zoning Update and Discussion. (M. Meehan)
Ms. Meehan presented updates recommended by the Board of Aldermen at the
Planning Board's meeting on December 21, 2023. The updated language now
mandates a pre-application meeting instead of making it optional. It also
changes the timing of the public input meeting from after the application
submittal to before the submittal. It reiterates the requirement to incorporate
public input in the applicant-submitted meeting report. During their meeting on
May 18th, 2023, the Planning and Zoning Board voted to recommend the approval
of the Zoning Text Amendment. The Board's motion to recommend the approval
included two modifications: minimum open space provision within Conditional
Rezoning proposals and the inclusion of regulated trees within required
materials in a Conditional Rezoning application.
Alderman Mosteller made comments supporting the Zoning Text Amendment for
Conditional Zoning. She noted that the only downfall is that the process takes
more time to allot for more public engagement. She incentivized the concept of
smart development and the blending of mixed uses requiring less infrastructure.
Smart development supports the preservation of land and natural resources. She
does not agree with waiting until after the Comprehensive Land Use Plan project
has been completed and supports the recommendation to adopt the amendment by
the Planning Board, Staff, and the City Manager.
Mayor Alt stated that a development agreement could achieve similar goals as
suggested by Conditional Zoning until the Comprehensive Land Use Plan has been
updated and completed. Alderman Mosteller disagreed and said that a development
agreement can’t rewrite zoning. Mayor Alt said that the Comprehensive Plan is
to provide direction on how the city would like to look and feel in the future.
He feels that the community would like to have input on the comprehensive plan
before making amendments to the process of how new development will be
accomplished.
Alderman Davis motioned to deny the proposed Zoning Text Amendment and finds it
inconsistent with the 2014 CAMA Core Land Use Plan second by Mayor Pro Tem
Kelly. Aye, Alderman Davis, Kelley, Lai, and Spencer. Nay: Alderman Mosteller
and Carroll.
Motion Carried. 4-2.
Before moving into a closed session, Alderman Carroll motioned to discuss item
10 on the agenda, seconded by Mayor Pro Tem Kelley. Unanimous Vote; Motion
Carried.
10.   Recommendations for (2) Comprehensive Plan Steering Committee Positions
(Aderman Carroll, Lai, and Mosteller.)
   Alderman Spencer thanked everyone who submitted applications to be on the
committee and said it was a hard decision. Alderman Carroll made a motion to
appoint Mr. John McCloskey as a business owner representative and Ms. Karen
Williams as a citizen representative for the Comprehensive Plan Steering
Committee, second by Alderman Spencer. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
O.   Closed Session
   Mayor Alt stated the purpose of the Closed Session per N.C.G.S. 143-318.11
(a)(3) To consult with an attorney employed or retained by the public body in
order to preserve the attorney-client privilege between the attorney and the
public body, which privilege is hereby acknowledged. General policy matters may
not be discussed in a closed session, and nothing herein shall be construed to
permit a public body to close a meeting that otherwise would be open merely
because an attorney employed or retained by the public body is a participant.
The public body may consider and give instructions to an attorney concerning
the handling or settlement of a claim, judicial action, mediation, arbitration,
or administrative procedure. If the public body has approved or considered a
settlement, other than a malpractice settlement by or on behalf of a hospital,
in closed session, the terms of that settlement shall be reported to the public
body and entered into its minutes as soon as possible within a reasonable time
after the settlement is concluded.
   Alderman Carroll motioned to enter Closed Session, seconded by Mayor Pro Tem
Mosteller. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried. – 9:53 p.m.
A motion was made to return to Open Session by Alderman Mosteller and second by
Alderman Davis. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried—-10:00 p.m.
Alderman Carroll made a motion to release the legal opinion of Attorney Tom
Terrell, seconded by Alderman Davis . Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.  
9.   Clarification and Details from the Meeting with East-West Partners.
(Alderman Carroll)
Alderman Carroll requested that an open discussion about recent events be
included on the agenda. He believes it is crucial for the board and the
community to come together and learn from what has happened. By doing so, they
can collaboratively work towards advancing Southport in a transparent,
cooperative, and harmonious manner. He outlined some key facts and dates
pertaining to Project Indigo. He questioned the transparency and city resources
used to meet with attorneys from both parties without the direction of the
entire board. Mayor Pro Tem Kelley said she was asked to sit it at a meeting,
and there were no negotiations. Alderman Mosteller noted that the code of
ethics was adopted to promote and strengthen the faith and confidence of the
citizens and their governing board. She said, “Our ethics say that we don’t act
without authorization from the board, so I just want us to understand that, for
me, there’s a question of ethics.” Mayor Alt said there was no wrongdoing, and
no negotiating was conducted.
Mayor Alt read the legal opinion from Mr. Terrell regarding the state's open
meetings law and the city's code of ethics. Mr. Terrell stated that the open
meetings law was not violated as a majority of the board was not present during
the meeting. Furthermore, he found no clear requirement or prohibition of the
city's code of ethics. According to him, it is common for members of the
elected body of every major North Carolina municipality to meet with staff,
developers, property owners, citizen groups, and adjacent neighbors outside of
the public hearing process. Therefore, Mr. Terrell suggested that the board
should consider meeting and communicating regularly with the development team,
just as it does with citizens opposed to the potential development of the site.
He also mentioned that although there are no laws or policies requiring board
members to share with each other when they learn or have heard from interested
parties, it is often a good practice to do so.
   Alderman Davis concluded that through this conversation, she had heard
nothing about facts being concealed. Alderman Lai stated, “We’ve got one
mission and one mission only, and that’s to take care of the citizens in the
City of Southport, and we’ve got to work together collaboratively to do that.
That is our job. Our only job.”
Mayor Alt requested a motion to adjourn after no further discussion. A motion
was made by Alderman Spencer and seconded by Alderman Carroll. Unanimous Vote;
Motion Carried.
Adjournment —10:50 p.m.
   ______________________________         ______________________________
      Mayor, Richard Alt             Deputy Clerk, Tanya Shannon
February 16, 2024
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN Regular Meeting Minutes
February 16, 2024 Indian Trail Meeting Hall
SOUTHPORT, N.C.   12:30 p.m.
 
Present:   Mayor Rich Alt, Mayor Pro Tem Rebecca Kelley, Aldermen Lowe Davis,
Robert Carroll, Marc Spencer, Karen Mosteller and Frank Lai
Staff Present:
      Bonnie Therrien, City Manager
      Dorothy Dutton, Assistant Manager/ City Clerk
      ChyAnn Ketchum, Community Relations/PIO
      Lance Flint, Finance Director
Others Present:    Bob Liepa, State Port Pilot
A) Mayor Rich Alt called the meeting to order at 12:30 p.m. and welcomed
everyone.
B) Alderman Lowe Davis gave the Invocation.
C) The Pledge of Allegiance was led by Mayor Alt.
D) Approval of the Agenda:
A motion was made by Alderman Lai and seconded by Alderman Spencer to approve
the agenda. All ayes; motioned carried.
E)  Agenda
   1. City Manager Bonnie Therrien stated that the candidate for the City Clerk
position had accepted the offer of employment. Dorothy Dutton thanked the Board
for their willingness to hire a new Clerk, so she could focus on her duties as
the Assistant City Manager. Alderman Davis made a motion to appoint Sara Thomas
to the position of City Clerk. Alderman Mosteller seconded the motion. All
ayes. Motion carried.
   2. Lance Flint, the Finance Director, explained that the North Carolina
League of Municipalities has offered to provide the City with financial
software called Black Mountain. The League is also providing free
implementation and installation. There are several modules that the City will
be able to use, that would normally cost $108,000. The League is providing the
software for free, and they are also sending accounting services to make sure
the City’s data and financials are in the best position moving forward.
Alderman Spencer made a motion to Approve a Municipal Accounting Services,
Cybersecurity and Technical Assistance Memorandum of Agreement; approve
Amendment #1 to the Municipal Accounting Services, Cybersecurity and Technical
Assistance Memorandum of Agreement, and approve the License Agreement for
Purchase and Support of Application Software. Alderman Carroll seconded the
motion. All ayes. Motion carried.  
Mr. Flint added that as part of the transition, the City will standardize the
ledger accounts which will help moving forward with audits. He said that the
City would have to renew the Springbrook Software because of the billing cycle.
The implementation of Black Mountain is expected for June 2025.
F) Mayor’s Comments
      Mayor Alt requested that there be a press release about the new software.
G) Board Comments
      Alderman Mosteller welcomed the new City Clerk. Alderman Spencer stated
that other employes should be trained to do some of the Clerk’s job duties if
they are interested in order to help with succession planning and consistency.
Alderman Lai stated that he believed the Board had made a solid choice on the
new City Clerk.
H) Alderman Spencer made a motion to adjourn, which was seconded by Alderman
Carroll. 
All ayes. Motion carried. Mayor Alt adjourned the meeting at 12:46 p.m.
                     ___________________________________
                     Richard Alt, Mayor
                     City of Southport
 
___________________________________
Dorothy Dutton, City Clerk
Assistant City Manager
 
February 28, 2024
Special Public Workshop Meeting Minutes
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN Special Public Workshop Meeting Minutes
February 28, 2024 223 E. Bay Street
SOUTHPORT, N.C.   5:00 P.M.
 
Present:    Mayor Rich Alt, Alderman Karen Mosteller, Lowe Davis, Robert
Carroll, Frank Lai, and Marc Spencer.
Absent:   Mayor Pro Tem Rebecca Kelley
Staff:   Manager Bonnie Therrien, Assistant City Manager/Clerk Dorrie Dutton,
and Mo Meehan, City Planner
 
A.    Mayor Rich Alt called the meeting to order at 5:00 P.M.
B.    Alderman Reverend Davis gave the Invocation.
C.    Mayor Alt led the Pledge of Allegiance.
D.   Mayor Pro Tem Kelley made a motion to approve the agenda, which was
seconded by Alderman Davis. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.  
E.   Right-of-Way Presentation (D. Dutton and M. Meehan) 
   Ms. Meehan and Ms. Dutton discussed encroachments into the right-of-ways and
enforcement tools. Encroachments are prevalent in the city, mainly in the
historic core and non-conforming lots in R-10. Only new driveways, walkways,
parking for non-conforming lots, and overflow parking, if graveled, are
permitted. The UDO prohibits placing any structure or substance above the
ground on public streets, sidewalks, or other right-of-ways.
F.   Public Comments and Questions   
1.   Ms. Susan Delaney, who lives in the historic district at 304 W. West St.,
requested that the Board revise the policies in the UDO to allow property
owners to landscape around their properties and replace any items removed by
the city in the right-of-way. She has invested a lot of money in landscaping
and had the power lines buried around her house to prevent any damage. She
replaced the sidewalk to avoid tripping hazards and highlighted that property
owners have invested time and money to beautify the city.
2.   Mr. Angelo Collins, who lives at 1107 N. Caswell, has raised concerns
about the alleyways. He recently requested a permit to remove some trees from
behind his house to access his garage but was informed that there were
complications with issuing a permit for tree removal since the trees were
partially in the alleyway. Mr. Collins has taken the initiative to clean up the
area behind his house and is willing to remove the small gumball trees at his
own expense. Although he understands that alleyways are city property, he would
like the board to consider the properties that abut them and allow homeowners
to make improvements.
3.   Bob Holben, who resides at 114 W. Moore St., expressed concern about the
potential long-term parking issue in the city and believes that encroaching
into the right-of-ways has become the motive for taking action on such
encroachments. He acknowledged the incredible efforts of individual property
owners in the historic district in maintaining the charm of their homes,
preserving the trees, and landscaping. He emphasized that these efforts have
added to the unique and special character of Southport. Mr. Holben also noted
that the property owners understand their responsibility to remove any items
that obstruct the city's property. He acknowledged that if the city plans to
build a new sidewalk, parking spaces, or bury utility lines, it would be a good
thing, but preventing neighbors from beautifying the city at their expense
seems misguided. He argued that the barren right-of-ways are not charming, and
it is the property owner's efforts that make them so. He acknowledged that the
property owner's efforts are removable, if need be, but it should only be for
the right reason and not just to take over and assume the right-of-way. Mr.
Holben asked the Board to move forward with option four, which was considered
at the meeting on February 5th.
4. Do not amortize right-of-way encroachments; allow existing or new
encroachments until access is needed by the City or they cause a hazard.
a) The property owner can return the landscaping encroachments to the City at
no expense.
4.   Mr. Fred Fiss, a resident of 216 N. Atlantic Ave., believes enforcing the
right-of-way encroachments in the city is essential. He believes that safety
should always come first and that maintaining the city's property rights is the
responsibility of its citizens. Mr. Fiss finds it offensive when citizens fence
in the right-of-way, and he has noticed several examples of this around the
city, including 416 E. Bay St. In 2018, a fence and large boulders were placed
in the right-of-way at this location, which he believes could be hazardous to
pedestrians. He thinks people who must move into the right-of-way for passing
traffic could trip on the heavy landscaping and large rocks. Mr. Fiss filed an
official complaint with the city's code enforcement, but nothing was done in
2020 and 2021. The area that is fenced in is owned by a real estate broker, and
it infringes on valuable city property that could be used for additional
parking for Kingsley Park and potential sidewalks in the future. Therefore, he
requests that the city enforce violations of right-of-way encroachments, not
only for safety concerns but also for city property rights.
5.   Bob Gardner, who resides at 108 N. Caswell, has requested that the Board
be practical in enforcing right-of-ways. He believes it has been a common
practice for residents with non-conforming lots or those in the historic
district to enhance the right-of-way at their own expense for many years. He
agrees with the others that if the city requires utility access to these right-
of-ways, the landscape will have to be removed and replaced by the resident
with their money. Mr. Gardner believes that many people spend considerable time
and money on improving the right-of-way, which adds to the city's charm.
Although he understands parking is a significant issue, he points out that
certain areas have curbing that does not allow people to park in the right-of-
way.
6.   Kathy Cabral, 308 W. West St., echoed the prior speakers and agreed that
beautifying the right-of-ways has improved the city. She replaced the uneven
and hazardous sidewalk, buried utility lines, and planted a mature live oak to
replace a dead one. She implored the Board to allow the continuation of
improving and maintaining the right-of-way unless it is creating a safety
hazard.
7.    Hugh Fosbury, who resides at 120 W. Moore St., stated that property
owners know that the city owns the property, and that the city always has its
rights. However, some people misuse encroachment by using boulders and other
such things. He further explained that he put gravel on his side yard's right-
of-way (ROW) to prevent people from getting stuck in the mud while parking
there. Soon after, other residents added gravel to maintain uniformity and
improve the area's look. The residents paid for this themselves. He believes
that the city should not unnecessarily remove the ROW's beautification and
should allow the residents to maintain and replace the landscape if needed.
8.   Linda Pukenas, 119 N. Lord St., agreed with all the comments regarding the
right of way (ROWs). She said the residents take pride in maintaining the ROWs
in front of their homes and keeping them landscaped. She argued that if
homeowners were not allowed to maintain the ROWs, then the city should be
prepared to take on more of this responsibility and consider the cost. Ms.
Fosbury added that they all understand that the ROWs are city property and can
be removed if needed for city work but can be replaced by the owners if they
choose.
9.    Paul Swenson, who resides at 107 N. Atlantic Ave., stated that he has no
personal interest in the matter but believes that individuals who maintain the
lawn, plant trees, and use suitable quality pavers in the ROW contribute
positively to the area's aesthetics. However, he disapproves of people who
obstruct the right-of-ways (ROWs) in front of their homes during significant
holiday weekends to prevent others from parking. He suggested that during such
events, the public should be allowed to park in the city ROWs.
10.   Maria Horton, who lives at 414 N. Burrington Ave., expressed her
appreciation for the people who take pride in maintaining the right of way in
front of their homes, as it adds to the city's charm. She believes that
abandoning this practice is not conducive to the character of the city that
everyone loves. She also has a property with an abandoned alleyway with two
very large trees, and she wonders if the city will allow these trees to be
removed or if they will start maintaining the alleyways soon.
11.   Amy Patterson, who resides at 102 W. Nash St., expressed her concern that
if the right-of-way encroachment issue becomes enforced, it will lead to the
ROWs looking unkept and overgrown, just like they did many years ago. She
mentioned that she has never stopped people from parking in the ROW in front of
her property, but she takes care of it and keeps it clean. According to her,
these ROWs are situated in the heart of the city, where many people walk
around, and it would be a shame for the city to prevent people from
contributing to making it beautiful.   
   There were no further comments, and Mayor Alt thanked everyone for
attending. He announced the next meeting for further discussion will be on
March 11th at 6 pm.
G.    Mayor’s Comments
   Mayor Alt talked about parking issues in the city and how sometimes people
block the right-of-way with flags and tape. He suggested enforcing the city
code to stop this practice, or maybe the city could sell some right-of-way to
homeowners. However, this idea needs further discussion to determine if it's
feasible. The issue of staff versus residents maintaining the right-of-ways was
discussed. Structures and stone walls can block parking access, which must be
addressed. Mayor Alt noted that another solution may be to sell part of the
ROW, but this must be discussed and reviewed thoroughly. A meeting will be held
to discuss alleyways; some had permission to do what they wanted while others
did not. The Board will discuss addressing the abandoned alleyways at the next
meeting, and community feedback will be considered.
H.   Board Comments
   Alderman Mosteller expressed her opposition to selling city property,
particularly the right-of-ways, which she considers a significant part of the
city's heritage. She clarified that she does not favor hardened structures
(rocks, boulders, fences, etc.) in the ROW but believes the discussion of hard
structures and landscapes should be separate. She also emphasized the need for
rules and guidelines to be implemented, as there is a lot of diversity in each
situation. While she appreciates that people maintain the ROWs in front of
their property, she said someone might encroach the ROW with something less
appealing. She emphasized the importance of having an extensive conversation on
this matter.
   Alderman Carroll expressed his gratitude to the community for their efforts
to beautify the city, particularly in certain areas. However, he is against the
idea of taking possession of the right-of-way and blocking it from public
access. He acknowledges that some rules were not enforced when they should have
been, but he believes now is the time to follow the ordinance. He suggested
that certain concessions could be made in the ordinance to specify what is
allowed (such as landscape) in the ROW and make amendments rather than not
enforce.
   Alderman Davis questioned what would be done about enforcing right-of-ways,
especially for those blocking public parking for access to some city parks. She
said the owners know the ordinance but will not comply. She said that from a
legal standpoint, the city has to be cautious about selective enforcement. She
said there needs to be a way to amend the ordinance to deal with the different
issues that are inclusive to each property, as well as to achieve the overall
goal of improving the city right-of-way and not prohibiting public access to
public property.
   Mayor Pro Tem Kelley expressed her support for making amendments to the
current ordinance rather than enforcing it as it is. She believes that some
potential issues need to be addressed one-on-one. In response to Mr. Swenson's
comments about people blocking the right-of-way off from public parking on city
property during festivals and big holidays, the residents who maintain these
right-of-ways who say they understand the city may need to access them for
various reasons should also know that the public should also be allowed to park
on the right-of-ways if needed.
    Alderman Spencer expressed gratitude towards everyone for their comments on
the issue. He also presented an alternative perspective regarding the changes
that were being discussed. As a person born and raised in Southport, he has
seen many changes and understood that sometimes changes are not always
beneficial for everyone. He pointed out that the citizens of Southport have
diverse interests and preferences, and therefore, a 'one size fits all'
solution may not be suitable for everyone. He observed that many people are
moving to Southport and attempting to change and regulate the city. The issue
is complex due to the state setbacks on Moore Street, Howe Street, and Leonard
Street, which means different laws apply to various locations. He noted that
the alleyways had been neglected and require attention. He also suspects that
many other things have not been adequately addressed and must be dealt with.
   Alderman Lai thanked everyone for their valuable comments and their concern
for the city's beautification. He agreed that fences, boulders, and other
complex structures should be prevented as they obstruct the parking of vehicles
on public property, which is unjust and needs to be addressed. Parking in
Southport is a significant issue, so he suggested that using the city right-of-
way should not be limited to only property owners. He also encouraged more
discussion to find a fair and just solution that would be best for all the
citizens.
   One last comment was permitted by Ms. Karen Cobb, who resides at 107 N. Lord
St., raised a concern regarding the parking issue in the area. While she
welcomes visitors, she believes the residents should be prioritized. Limited
parking on her street often results in people parking on the right-of-way,
leaving residents with nowhere to park their cars. She requested the Board to
consider the taxpayers' needs before the tourists.
There were no further questions or comments. Mayor Alt requested a Motion to
adjourn. So, it was moved by Alderman Carroll and seconded by Alderman Spencer.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
Adjournment — 6:20 p.m.
_____________________________        _________________________________
Mayor, Richard Alt               Deputy Clerk, Tanya Shannon
 
February 29, 2024
Special Meeting Minutes
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN Special Meeting Minutes
February 29, 2024 Indian Trail Meeting Hall, 113 W. Moore St.
SOUTHPORT, N.C.   6:00 P.M.
 
Present:    Mayor Rich Alt, Alderman Karen Mosteller, Lowe Davis, Robert
Carroll, Frank Lai, and Marc Spencer.    
Absent:   Rebecca Kelley
Staff:   Manager Bonnie Therrien, Assistant City Manager/Clerk Dorrie Dutton,
Deputy Clerk Tanya Shannon, Communications/PIO Director ChyAnn Ketchum, Heather
Hemphill. Parks and Rec. Director, Police Chief Todd Coring, Finance Director
Lance Flint, Public Services Director Tom Stanley, and City Engineers Tom
Zilinek and Bob Jarvis.
 
A.    Mayor Rich Alt called the meeting to order at 8:30 A.M.
B.    Alderman Reverend Davis gave the Invocation.
C.    Mayor Alt led the Pledge of Allegiance.
D.   Alderman Spencer made a motion to approve the agenda, which was seconded
by Alderman Carroll. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.  
E.    Agenda
   1.   Budget Goal Setting for FY 2024-2025 (Ann White, NCLM)
   Manager Therrien emphasized the importance of setting short-term, medium-
term, and long-term goals for the budget. She introduced Ms. Anne White, a
municipal operations consultant with the League of Municipalities.
   Ms. White expressed her gratitude to the Board for inviting her and
presented some ideas for establishing the budget goal, both individually and as
a group. Ms. White sent out an assignment to the Board to bring back and
discuss each member's goals.
   Mayor Alt expressed interest in reviewing the discretionary funds. Since
most of the budget is allocated to areas with limited flexibility, one of his
objectives is to assess the total amount of funds available for discretionary
spending. To start the review process, he has requested an estimate of the
amount of money available for discretionary spending. He reviewed some key
components. 1) He believes Parks and Recreation should not be separated.
However, he suggested hiring a park supervisor with experience in trees and
landscaping or an outside company to routinely come to do concept landscaping
such as fertilizing, trimming, etc. 2) He would like to start the budget
process of how to protect and restore the old City Courthouse. 3) He explained
that with roughly $5 million in funds dedicated to the Shoreline Stabilization
project that must be used by 2026, there needs to be a plan for using the money
this year. He said that $5M will not be enough to complete the project, but it
can be done in phases and how much each phase will cost. 4) He would like to
address the alleyways and the cost of cleaning them up and making them
accessible for cyclists and pedestrians. 5) The cost of road paving and how
much to set aside each year for paving. 6) He discussed the RPO Greenway
Project, and although most funds will come from the State, there needs to be a
discussion about whether there needs to be a contribution or matching funds.
   Alderman Carroll shared his thoughts on the current short-term goal, stating
that the biggest challenge at the moment is the sewer merger with the county.
This merger will significantly reduce revenue, impacting on some of the staff’s
salaries. Consequently, he believes that the upcoming year will be a lean one.
Therefore, he suggests that there should be more emphasis on employee
recruitment and retention to tackle this challenge effectively. He would like
to see an asset maintenance plan and goals and funds to protect and maintain
all real property. He would like to see funding for the all-inclusive park in
addition to a private funding partnership. Improve the monetization of tourism
and keep revenue in Southport, not just during peak season but also from weekly
shoppers and diners.
Alderman Davis expressed her desire to see improvements in storm drainage. She
noted that while maintenance work is being done on the existing storm drains,
more of them are needed. According to her, heavy rainfall causes extensive
flooding and ponding in yards and streets, which is not just limited to storms.
Therefore, she suggests expanding the storm drainage system to improve drainage
and prevent flooding, especially in areas with new development. Alderman Davis
also raised concerns about parking issues and suggested the possibility of
using eminent domain to acquire the open area at the yacht basin. She
emphasized that the area is zoned residential and any new construction in the
vicinity could compromise the vistas, which would undermine the CAMA Land Use
Plan. She suggested that the space could be used for free or paid parking for
events and other purposes, making it a viable investment that would be worth
the cost. She would like to appropriate for real estate. She said a lot of the
buildings are crowded, and some are underused. She would like a good, solid
plan that can be agreed on for the best use of public buildings. Perhaps
purchase, sell, or preserve them. She would like to budget for electric vehicle
plug-ins for EVs. She would like to create a connector from Lowe White Park and
Taylor Field leading up to Kingsley Park. She would like to acquire land
between these parks to ensure smooth connectivity. The ultimate aim is to
create an uninterrupted pathway for people to commute between these parks.
Alderman Mosteller discussed her plans for budget planning in the short and
long term. Her objectives include developing a budget document that meets the
criteria for the Government Finance Officer Award of Distinguished Budget
Presentation and creating a 5-year budget structure. She believes these
initiatives are crucial for effective planning in the future. During the
discussion, she also mentioned reviewing the status of the building inspections
department fees and determining which staff and facilities can be attributed to
these funds. She also expressed her eagerness to review the analysis of the
staff pay study and move forward with it. Additionally, she hopes to provide
more training initiatives for staff and committee members. In the short term,
Alderman Mosteller aims to relocate the Police Department to provide more space
for city hall. She also stated that the yacht-basin dredging is a high priority
on the list. Advance in the Shoreline Stabilization project and determine how
to proceed with grant funds and additional funds needed. In the long term, she
aims to repair roads and sidewalks, install traffic calming devices, and update
the transportation plan for a future goal. She wants to look at the aesthetics
of city facilities, including signs, etc. Another important short-term goal is
to fill the planning department's open positions. She is also considering
establishing an Entry Corridor Commission to protect the corridor, which is a
main point for the city, and discussing managing impervious coverage to deal
with stormwater drainage.
Alderman Spencer suggested that tourism could be used more effectively to
generate revenue. He explained that while businesses benefit from the influx of
travelers to the city daily, weekly, or monthly, the cost of maintaining the
necessary infrastructure should not fall solely on the residents. He proposed
that visitors contribute to the cost of maintaining the infrastructure to share
the burden. He would devise a long-term solution to generate more revenue from
tourism effectively. He noted that due to the water and sewer merger, the city
would suffer a significant loss of income. As a result, most of the city's
revenue will come from taxes. He emphasized that setting goals and planning for
the future is crucial, but the amount of money required to achieve these goals
is yet to be determined. Alderman Spencer aims to enhance staff skills and
leverage technology to streamline operations. He recommended bringing interns
in to learn and bring in new ideas, evaluating and maintaining city buildings
and facilities, needing the funds to protect Franklin Square Park, and
renovating buildings for better use. The Shoreline Stabilization Project is of
utmost importance, and it is essential to set a goal on how to proceed with the
allocated funds before the year ends. It is necessary to redirect ferry traffic
from neighborhood side streets that cause road damage and incur expenses. The
State should be more involved in the repair of their roads. It is crucial to
ensure that if the ROWs (Right of Way) are restricted, the city maintains them.
The Police Department could be relocated to the old Fire Station to save money
on purchasing a new one. Budgeting for connectivity with the parks is
necessary. Look for resources to pay for sidewalks to take pedestrians to
Walmart and other businesses.
Alderman Lai expressed his agreement with everyone that tourism plays a vital
role in Southport's economy. He emphasized that the city needs to explore
various options to generate revenue through tourism. Shoreline stabilization is
also a significant priority, and the city must decide quickly on how to fund
and phase out the project. The city facilities require repairs and renovation,
and a Board Chamber would be a valuable asset. Alderman Lai recommended
investing in staff training and providing competitive salaries to attract and
retain the best talent. Relocating the Police Department is essential, and
creating more space for staff at City Hall is well-needed. The primary
objective is to establish a plan to generate more revenue through grants, paid
parking, and other means.
There was discussion on medium and long-term goals for generating more revenue.
It was mentioned that a slight increase in sales tax would be a tremendous
help, but it would have to be lobbied for and approved by legislators.
Manager Therrien expressed her concerns about the city's financial situation.
She mentioned that she has never seen a state restricting municipalities from
raising funds and that the city needs to work with other towns to ban this
restriction. Manager Therrien explained that in other states where she has
worked, there are options to raise funds, which would have to go to a
referendum for a public vote. With the CIP presentation coming up, she
emphasized that the improvements cannot be funded through tax revenue alone.
She was surprised to learn that the city does not have a bond rating, which
could be a viable option to complete big projects. In her opinion, grant money
alone will not be enough to cover the expenses.
Ms. White has compiled a list of all the goals and ensured that none
overlapped. She reviewed each goal and provided some valuable suggestions. She
has also recommended collaborating with the departments responsible for
specific areas of improvement. Additionally, she has expressed her willingness
to work with the city manager and finance director to review the goals in
greater detail. Ms. White expressed her gratitude to everyone who participated
and was enthusiastic about supporting the team in achieving these goals.
Everyone thanked Ms. White and the Staff for leading the direction in the next
budget cycle.
There was no further business. Mayor Alt requested a Motion to adjourn. So
moved by Alderman Carroll and seconded by Alderman Lai.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried. —11:08 A.M.
_______________________            _____________________________
Mayor, Richard Alt               Deputy Clerk, Tanya Shannon
 
March 4, 2024
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN Meeting Minutes
March 4, 2024     Community Building, 223 E. Bay St.
SOUTHPORT, N.C.   9:00 A.M.
 
Present:    Mayor Rich Alt, Mayor Pro Tem Rebecca Kelley, Alderman Karen
Mosteller, Lowe Davis, Robert Carroll, Frank Lai, and Mark Spencer.
Absent:   None
Staff:   Manager Bonnie Therrien, Dorothy Dutton, Assistant City Manager,
ChyAnn Ketchum POI/Communications Director, Police Chief Todd Coring,
A.    Mayor Rich Alt called the meeting to order at 9:00 A.M.
B.    The Invocation was given by Reverend Alderman Davis.
C.    Mayor Alt led the Pledge of Allegiance.
D.   New Employee Introductions
   1.   Police Department: Officer John Warnock and Officer Timothy Barton.
   2.   Development Services: Mike Lavezzo, Building Inspector, and Harlan "HP"
Pyles, Code Enforcement
E.   Public Comment 
1.   Angelo Collins of 1107 N. Caswell Ave. requested the Board to allow
residents to clean up alleyways, making them more accessible. Although the
alleyways belong to the city, Mr. Collins would like to pull around to the rear
of his house without impeding and has applied for a tree permit to create
accessible space. However, it cannot be approved as it is on city property.
2.   Hope Vickers, residing at 1002 Bussells Turn, expressed her gratitude
towards Franklin Square Park and the ongoing efforts to promote its
restoration. According to her, the park is a "sacred space," the community is
eager to see it preserved in its utmost beauty.
3.   Scott Len 318 Will Dr., Chair of the Southport Forestry Committee,
disagrees with the Friends of Franklin's request to limit the use of Franklin
Square Park and complete the park restoration according to their vision. He
suggests mitigation steps to protect the park's flora and requests citizen
input before committing.
4.   Caroline Proctor of 312 N. Atlantic Ave. requests the reopening of
Franklin Square Park to pedestrians. She stated that the tree assessment is
complete and that future park enhancements are years away. Despite a warning
from insurance, she believes the risk is minimal, and if the park is a
liability, other places should be closed, too.
5.   Ginny Prunty, who resides at 5906 Dutchman Creek Rd., expressed her
gratitude to City Manager Bonnie Therrien for the services rendered to the
city. She requested that she reconsider and extend her term as City Manager.
Ginny and many others appreciate Bonnie's unwavering dedication to improving
the city. They regard her as the best manager the city has had so far, and they
do not want to lose her.
F.   A Motion was made by Alderman Carroll to approve the agenda and seconded
by Mayor Pro Tem Kelley. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
G.   Agenda
1.   Franklin Square Park Tree Assessment (Everett Jones, Bartlett Tree
Services)
Mr. Jones assessed the trees and reported that the majority of them have a low-
risk rating, which is impressive. However, he conducted a thorough evaluation
of 22 Oaks and discussed several options to mitigate the risks associated with
these trees.
Alderman Mosteller asked about the possibility of reopening the park once the
liability risks had been reduced. Manager Therrien consulted with the risk
agent and was informed that it would be safe to reopen the park once the
recommended trees and limbs were removed. The discussion then moved toward the
final report, and it was requested that $50,000 be allocated from the City's
Building and Grounds Budget to address the immediate issues outlined. Mr. Jones
stated that tree removal would begin in the blue area on the site plan, and
once the risk manager approves, the park can reopen. However, Mr. Jones
stressed that no mechanical equipment should be allowed in the park; this
includes vehicles, lawnmowers, weedwhackers, stakes, tents, trailers, etc.
However, pedestrian traffic should remain allowable once the park is deemed
safe, and all trees should have mulch surrounding them for root protection.
Alderman Carroll questioned whether the $50,000 was only for the blue area
(where the four sisters are) behind the city gym or for the entire park.
Manager Therrien clarified that it was for the 22 trees that needed attention.
Alderman Carroll questioned whether this would open the whole park, and Manager
Therrien responded that it would depend on the risk manager’s decision. Manager
Therrien also reiterated that the $50,000 was just an estimate and that an RFQ
would have to be sent out.
Alderman Davis Made a Motion to allocate $50,000 from the City’s Public
Services’ Building and Grounds account to address the immediate issues of tree
work in Franklin Square Park as identified by Mr. Jones and Bartlett Tree
Experts and to proceed with the provided option two which states “If you elect
not to remove the trees, the risk of trunk failure will remain low for live
oaks #3, #24, and #25. Pruning to reduce the relative size of the crown on each
tree may result in an estimated residual risk of low branch or crown failure.
These four trees should have root collar excavations performed if they are to
remain on site.” Alderman Carroll seconded . Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
2.    Proposed Ordinance Changes and Budget Requests (Friends of Franklin
Square Park)
Ms. Jeanne Potter and Ms. Cheryl Daniel, representing the "Friends of
Franklin," gave a presentation about their mission to restore Franklin Square
Park. They recommended changes to the existing Ordinance and explained the
park's background.
The Friends of Franklin also requested that the City Manager seek the
assistance of qualified landscape vendors to create a budget for short- and
long-term park restoration. They also asked for a regular maintenance schedule
for the park, as recommended by the arborist and landscapers, to avoid the
current state of disrepair from happening again.
Finally, the group requested the establishment of a separate Parks and
Recreation division to manage Franklin Square Park. They hope to be included in
this effort and are eager to contribute to the park's successful restoration.
The Board has recognized the need for more attention to preserve Franklin
Square Park. They thanked the Friends of Franklin for their tireless efforts in
advocating for its protection. Mayor Pro Tem Kelley mentioned that the 4th of
July Committee has agreed to move the arts and crafts festival to Bay Street to
ensure that the festivities are more centralized in the heart of downtown.
Alderman Mosteller pointed out that the Parks and Recreation Open Space Master
Plan for 2023-2028 mentions Franklin Square Park thirty-seven times. The plan
aims to protect and preserve all of the parks for the future.
Alderman Davis proposed a Motion to direct the City Manager to issue a Request
for Proposals (RFPs) for landscaping services for Franklin Square Park. The
Motion also included a request for the Board to send back to the Parks and
Recreation Committee the recommended changes made by the Friends of Franklin
regarding concerns about the park and use of the stage and its placement.
Additionally, the Motion directed the City Manager to include in the budget
review process an assessment of how the public works and parks and recreation
departments can best work together or separately to maintain public buildings
and grounds, including the park.
Alderman Carroll referenced the proposed Motion in the packet, and Alderman
Davis reiterated that the Motion would Commit to the complete restoration of
Franklin Square proper. Refer the changes to Section 12-4,
Article 2 to the Parks and Recreation Commission for their
advisory opinion and request that the City Manager issue a Request for Qualifications for licensed
landscape vendors to assist with putting together a budget short and long-term
to put back Franklin Square Park proper into a resemblance of its former state
as a historic park/garden. Seconded by Alderman Lai.
Alderman Mosteller agrees the park needs attention and funding for tree
mitigation, a significant step. However, she believes the discussion about
landscaping and plans should be sent to the Parks and Recreation Committee for
a thorough review and public input before any RFQs are issued. She mentioned
that, at present, the priority is to make the park safe and accessible to the
public and allow the Parks and Recreation Department to continue with a long-
term plan, as they did with Taylor Field Park.
During the discussion, there was an agreement on addressing the park's
immediate and long-term plans. The consensus was to prioritize the mitigation
of trees, followed by working on a plan for the park that would balance
preservation and practical use in the future.
Alderman Davis rescinded her motion, and Alderman Lai rescinded his second.
    Alderman Mosteller proposed a new motion. The motion is to refer the
discussions about Franklin Square Park to the Parks and Recreations Department
and Advisory Committee. The purpose is to consider any improvements to the
park, initiate public engagement, and provide adequate recommendations to the
Board of Aldermen for future uses of Franklin Square Park. Alderman Spencer
seconded the Motion. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried .
3.   Job Study and Classification Plan (P. Fortuna and Rob Williamson,
Evergreen Solutions)
   Ms. Fortuna introduced Mr. Willianson, who gave a PowerPoint presentation on
the study and the process. Mr. Williamson stated the study aimed to create a
fair and competitive pay plan.
   The Board discussed the plan and whether it included the cost of living, job
performance, or benefits. Mr. Williamson clarified that the plan did not
include any of these factors. Manager Therrien mentioned that cost of living
and job performance evaluations are handled separately. Mr. Williamson
suggested two options - above midpoint parity and below midpoint parity.
Midpoint Parity – places employees into new pay ranges based on relationship to
midpoint. If above the midpoint, move employees based on years in the current
classification. If below midpoint, move employees based on tenure. A chart was
provided for more clarification. Everyone agreed that retention of good
employees is valuable, and compensation should be fair and competitive.
However, it was the consensus of the Board to seek more clarification of pay
grades and the process for implementing these grades. The Board agreed to get
more information and discuss the options in the budget work sessions.
   Alderman Spencer was recused for the rest of the meeting for a prior
engagement.
4.   Resurfacing Roads (T. Zilinek City Engineer)
Mr. Zilinek presented a PowerPoint on the Paving Program for the Future of
Southport. He explained that the city currently has no long-term resurfacing
program in place. As a result, many of the city's streets have not resurfaced
for years, and most of the pavement has exceeded its useful life, showing signs
of failure. Unfortunately, the amount of Powell Bill funds the city receives
annually is insufficient to fund a proper resurfacing program. Without a
dedicated investment in a resurfacing program, the city's streets will
deteriorate, worsening driving conditions.
Annual Funding Received:
·   The city receives about $150,000 annually from the State in Powell Bill
Funds.
·   Resurfacing all city-maintained streets using only Powell Bill funds will
take about 66 years.
·   The average pavement life is 20 to 30 years.
What is needed:
·   Resurfacing all city-maintained streets over ten years will require $10
million or $1 million per year on average.
·   Recommended front loading and doing more in the first couple of years, then
reducing in subsequent years.
·   Recommendation is $2M, $1.5M, $1.5M, $1M, $1M, $0.75M, $0.75M, $0.5M,
$0.5M, $0.5M.
·   Recommended spreading throughout the City yearly and not concentrating on
one specific area. This way, an entire area will not need to be resurfaced
simultaneously in the future.
There were concerns regarding the finalization of the sewer merger,
particularly when the county began working on the sewer lines. It was unclear
who would be responsible for repaving the roads. Mayor Alt mentioned that $1.1
million had been set aside for road repairs after installing the sewer pipes,
which was part of the discussion with the county. He said the county would own
the sewer system by 2028, while the city would own the roads. This raised the
question of who would repair the roads if they were dug up to install new sewer
pipes. Mr. Zilinek recommended that the city repair the streets when the time
comes because the city would have control of the standards and specifications.
The county would handle trenching and road resurfacing, but the city would be
responsible for paving. Mayor Alt pointed out that inflation could cause the
cost to exceed the earmarked $1.1 million. He suggested considering an
appropriation for any extra funds needed. Mr. Zilinek noted that these numbers
are today's and did not act out future costs. Alderman Carroll questioned if
the appropriated funds were in a CD. Manager Therrien said she was unsure but
would consult with the Finance Director. It was decided to continue discussions
at a later date without further questions.
5.   Discussion of Alleyways (D. Dutton)
Alderman Davis raised a concern about whether the alleyway discussion should be
postponed until the city attorney could be present. Alderman Carroll suggested
that there could be separate discussions on alleyways and other right-of-ways.
Mayor Alt stated that some legal questions still need to be answered, such as
what to do if someone claims abandonment of the alleyway. He did agree that the
right-of-ways should be discussed separately. Alderman Carroll reiterated that
he legally believes there can be no claim of abandonment without proper
authority. There were also concerns about the purpose of the alleyways and
clarification of their locations. The Board ultimately agreed to table the
discussion.
Alderman Davis motioned to table the discussion on alleyways until legal
counsel was present, pertinent information was provided, accurate maps were
available, and Alderman Carroll seconded. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
H.   Manager’s Report
Manager Therrien recognized staff anniversaries, and Assistant Manager Dutton
provided updates on the Comprehensive Plan, Parking Study, Development Services
Director Recruitment, and Code Enforcement Minimal Housing.
I.   Mayor’s Comments
Mayor Alt thanked everyone for participating in a productive meeting where many
challenging topics were discussed.
J.   Board Comments: None
K.   Closed Session
Mayor Alt stated that per Closed Session N.C.G.S. 143-318.11 (a) (5). To
establish or to instruct the public body's staff or negotiating agents
concerning the position to be taken by or on behalf of the public body in
negotiating (i) the price and other material terms of a contract or proposed
contract for the acquisition of real property by purchase, option, exchange, or
lease; or (ii) the amount of compensation and other material terms of an
employment contract or proposed employment contract.
Alderman Davis asked on behalf of the public who the owner is, and the location
and intention of the property being discussed.
Electrical Superintendent Ellie Pittenger stated that the property's location
is near the intersection of E. Moore St. and East Leonard. The current owner is
Archard Daniel Midland (ADM), and the purpose of the property is to build a
power substation.
Manager Therrien said there will also be a discussion about whether 211 North
Howe Street, owned by Rhetson Development, could be a potential location or
substation for the Police Department.
Alderman Carroll motioned to enter Closed Session, seconded by Mayor Pro Tem
Kelley. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried . —12:37 p.m.
Alderman Carroll made a Motion to return to Open Session and, seconded by Mayor
Pro Tem Kelley. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried. —1:04 p.m.
Mayor Alt entertained a motion to have the Planning Board review of the 1.2
acres of Archer Daniel Midland Property (ADM) near the intersection of E. Moore
and E. Leonard Street for potential purchase by the city for an electrical
substation. So moved Alderman Mosteller and second by Mayor Pro Tem Kelley.
There was some discussion and potential clarification on the motion. Alderman
Mosteller rescinded her motion, and Mayor Pro Tem Kelley rescinded her second.
Alderman Carroll made a new motion to instruct the City Manager to enter into a
contract for approximately 1.2 acres owned by Archer Midland Daniel (ADM) in
the amount of $48,000 for the purpose of a second electrical substation and to
simultaneously forward this information to the Planning Board for a full review
and recommendation, seconded by Alderman Davis. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
 
There was no further business. Alderman Mosteller motioned to adjourn and was
seconded by Mayor Pro Tem Kelley. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
Adjourn— 1:04 p.m.
_____________________               _____________________________
Mayor, Richard Alt               Deputy Clerk, Tanya Shannon
March 5, 2024
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN Special Meeting Minutes
March 5, 2024     Community Building, 223 E. Bay St.
SOUTHPORT, N.C.   10:00 A.M.
 
Present:    Mayor Rich Alt, Mayor Pro Tem Rebecca Kelley, Alderman Karen
Mosteller, Lowe Davis, Robert Carroll, Frank Lai, and Mark Spencer.
Absent:   None
Staff:   Manager Bonnie Therrien, City Clerk Sara Thomas, Deputy Clerk Tanya
Shannon, ChyAnn Ketchum POI/Communications Director, and Lance Flint Finance
Director.
A.    Mayor Rich Alt called the meeting to order at 10:01 A.M.
B.    Alderman Spencer gave the Invocation.
C.    Mayor Alt led the Pledge of Allegiance.
D.   Mayor Alt asked for an amendment to the agenda to include a discussion on
Legislative Proposals. Alderman Davis made a motion to approve the amendment to
the agenda, and Alderman Mosteller seconded it. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
   Alderman Mosteller made a Motion to approve the agenda as amended and
seconded by Mayor Pro Tem Kelley. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.  
E.    Agenda
1.    UDO Changes and Process
   An Ad Hoc committee was formed to review the process and criteria for
requesting an amendment to the UDO and other procedures. The committee
consisted of Mayor Alt, Alderman Lai, and Carroll. During their discussions,
Mayor Alt raised the issue of how changes to the UDO are initiated and the
collaboration between Staff, the Planning Board, and the Board of Aldermen. The
discussion focused on the current process, which involves a proposed amendment
or revision initially raised by Staff, another applicant, or the Aldermen. It
is then sent to the Planning Board for a thorough review and recommendation,
after which the Aldermen decide. Alderman Davis suggested an Aldermen workshop
to discuss matters related to the UDO. She proposed that the Board discuss
topics requiring changes and then send them to the Staff and the Planning Board
for review.
The Board agreed to move forward with the UDO amendment process as it currently
stands. Additionally, they will schedule a workshop to discuss potential
amendments raised by board members or concerned citizens. The Board will
compile a list of issues that have arisen and may pose conflicts with the UDO,
which they will then provide to the City Manager and discuss in the workshop.
The consensus of the Board was to have an annual workshop to discuss UDO-
related issues.
Mayor Alt pointed out that the UDO specifies a 90-day timeline for review and
recommendation by the Planning Board. This timeline can be extended if
requested and granted. However, as it is not currently written in the UDO, he
proposes adding language explicitly stating that an extension is permittable.
It was brought up that the Board conducts an annual review of the Ethics
Policies at the start of each new year. Alderman Carroll suggested that this
review could be combined with the upcoming UDO workshop and include a
discussion on the Code of Ordinances. Manager Therrien suggested having a
weekend retreat to discuss the UDO, Ethics, and Ordinances. The Board agreed to
provide the City Manager with their concerns regarding these subjects and
provide the Board with some options for scheduling workshops.
2.   Public Comments for Rules and Procedures
   Alderman Carroll and the Ad Committee proposed limitations on public
comments, including a three-minute limit per person, a one-hour public comment
period, and concluding Board meetings by 10 PM unless the Board votes to extend
the meeting. However, Mayor Alt reconsidered the time limit proposal, believing
it's not in the city's best interest to restrict the length of public comment
and that every person who sign-ups should get a chance to speak. The Committee
also recommended that anyone who wishes to comment must sign up.
   Alderman Davis is passionate about giving citizens time to be heard. She
compared perception to reality by analyzing the length of public comments and
meetings from previous long sessions.
   The Board discussed the appropriate length of time for individual speakers
to comment. They concluded that a three-minute limit was reasonable. However,
Alderman Davis expressed disagreement with putting a time limit on individual
speakers. Alderman Spencer reminded everyone that there are two regular
Aldermen Meetings a month, and the public can speak at one or both meetings.
Additionally, they can submit comments and handouts and send emails or make
phone calls to members of the Board to address their concerns. Alderman Spencer
suggested that the consent agenda should include items that do not require
lengthy discussions. He also recommended that the meeting be limited to four
hours instead of stating 10 PM unless it is voted to extend. This is because
there are morning meetings as well.
   Mayor Alt announced that the Ad hoc Committee has reviewed all the
suggestions regarding the public comment period in meetings, including those
from the School of Government and neighboring jurisdictions that align with
these proposals. He also mentioned that further discussions would take place,
and a decision on the next steps would be made during the upcoming meetings.
3.    Role of Board Liaisons
   Mayor Alt presented an overview of the Ad Hoc Committees' discussion on the
role of liaisons and how to report information from Advisory Board Meetings to
the Board. The committee discussed the idea of providing each liaison with a
template or worksheet to fill out regarding the key points of the meetings. The
liaisons would then be required to submit the completed template to the Manager
and the entire Board within seven days of the subjective meetings.   
   The roles of Liaisons were evaluated depending on the Committee, Commission,
or Board. In some cases, Liaisons are not allowed to participate in
conversations at specific meetings, such as the Planning Board or Board of
Adjustment Meetings. However, there have been instances where the Liaison has
participated in technical review committee meetings. Mayor Alt suggested that
specific rules of engagement be established for those allowed to speak from the
Aldermen, such as a member of the Board of Aldermen who is present, The
Liaisons, or no one at all.
The Board agreed that the Liaison would use a template provided to share a
brief summary of the meetings. The summary should include the agenda, highlight
key concerns, and provide an overview of important points for each Board
member. However, there was a debate on whether the Liaisons or another Board
member would be allowed to speak during the meetings. No consensus was reached
on this matter.
4.     Policy on Public Contributions to Public Projects
   The Board has agreed to establish a policy for submitting and managing
donations. It was decided that the City Manager and the Finance Director would
bring policies and procedures to the Board for submitting and managing the
funds.
Alderman Lai clarified that if a contribution is made to the city, the donor
may want to know how and where the money is being spent. Therefore, the
objective is to create a policy that ensures donors feel confident that their
donations are being used appropriately. Additionally, there was a question
about whether cash would be accepted for contributions. Without records, there
could be potential complications.
If the public-private partnership agreement is established, the City will be
responsible for keeping records of the funds. There was a question about
including contributions and fundraisers such as DSI and the 4th of July in the
policy. The Board will continue to have more discussions at a later date.   
Break 11:48 A.M.
Return 11:52 A.M.
5.    Legislative Proposals 
   Mayor Alt provided each board with five legislative proposals previously
discussed and drafted by Manager Therrien for review, which need to be
submitted to the legislators in Raleigh as soon as possible.
LEGISLATIVE PROPOSALS
CITY OF SOUTHPORT – 2024-25
 
1)   Propose a legislative proposal so that Southport can keep the fines from
parking tickets, much like Oak Island.
Mayor Alt has discussed the current state of parking ticket fines, explaining
that they currently go to a literary fund or outside of the city. He mentioned
that Oak Island was able to keep $1.2 million in fines within their town and
asked how they were able to do so. They responded that the town had requested
the state legislator to ask that those fines remain in their town. Mayor Alt
stated that there had been some initial discussions on the topic, and it seems
to be a straightforward process. It was the consensus of the Board to move
forward with petitioning the State Legislators to permit the fines from parking
tickets to remain in the Southport Jurisdiction.
2)   Create legislation that allows Southport to increase the accommodations
tax from 3% to 5%. The current 3% would be assigned to the General Fund to
support Community Relations and the Visitors Center, but the additional 2%
would be solely designated for the City’s Capital Improvement Fund for
infrastructure upgrades and repairs. Southport has facilities that attract
tourists and non-residents and generate economic benefits for regional and
local commercial entities. The ever-increasing volume of visitors far outweighs
the impact of Southport’s residents on the city road, sidewalks, parks, and
buildings.
An additional 2% would help provide funding for the services, facilities, and
infrastructure needed to successfully maintain Southport as an economic engine
of the region.
The Board agreed to recuse Mayor Pro Tem Kelley from this discussion as she
requested due to a potential conflict of interest.
Alderman Mosteller explained how the particular process works and the benefits
it offers. She suggested that the city could request the State to allow for an
increase in rates that would enable them to maintain the infrastructure using
funds generated from tourism and the accommodations tax. The Consensus of the
Board was to move forward with sending this to the Legislators for request and
to allow Mayor Alt to collaborate with other mayors to inquire how this has
benefited their city/town.
3)   Allow Southport to put a sales tax for meals and beverages in a November
referendum to see if the voters would approve this. This would assist with the
rising infrastructure costs of the visitors and tourists and their impact on
the City.
4)   Alderman Davis mentioned that approval from the State is required before
adding an item to the agenda for a referendum. Manager Therrien confirmed that
the State's approval is necessary. Alderman Mosteller proposed changing the
term "sales tax" to "prepared meals tax," and Alderman Davis suggested
including "served beverage" in the language. The Board agreed that the City
Manager and Staff should finalize the correct language for the request and send
it to the Legislators.
5)   $1,000,000 for the Taylor Field Inclusive Playground v/s
6)   $900,000 (which, according to Chief Drew, may have been reduced to
$600,000) for the Fire Department radio replacement program, as the radios will
be obsolete in July of 2025. Because we have to order the replacement radios
ahead of time in order to have them ready for July 2025, funding is required
this year.
The Board must prioritize between the Taylor Field Inclusive Program and the
Fire Department radio replacement program.
The consensus of the Board was that funding for the Fire Department was a high
priority in proceeding with the request for the Fire Department radio
replacement program because if it is not done by July 2026, the radios will be
turned off. Mayor Alt stated that it would not be known if the money would come
before June at the end of the budget cycle, and then the city would have to
come up with the money. Alderman Carroll suggested creating a plan B in the
budget discussion in case of the worst scenario.
Mayor Alt requested a motion to adjourn the meeting since there were no further
questions or comments. Mayor Pro Tem Kelley made a motion to adjourn, which was
seconded by Alderman Mosteller. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried . —12:11 p.m.
 
______________________               __________________________
Mayor, Richard Alt                  Deputy Clerk, Tanya Shannon
 
March 11, 2024
Special Right-of-Way Workshop
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN Meeting Minutes: Special Right-of-Way Workshop
March 11, 2024    Community Building, 223 E. Bay St.
SOUTHPORT, N.C.   6:00 P.M.
 
Present:    Mayor Rich Alt, Mayor Pro Tem Rebecca Kelley, Alderman Karen
Mosteller, Lowe Davis, Robert Carroll, Frank Lai, and Mark Spencer.
Absent:   None
Staff:   Dorothy Dutton, Assistant City Manager; ChyAnn Ketchum, POI/
Communications Director; Police Chief Todd Coring; and Heather Hemphill, Parks
and Recreation Director.
A.    Mayor Rich Alt called the meeting to order at 6:00 P.M.
B.    Reverend Alderman Davis gave the Invocation.
C.    Mayor Alt led the Pledge of Allegiance.
D.   Mayor Pro Tem Kelley made a motion to approve the Agenda seconded by
Alderman Davis. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.  
E.   Right of Way Presentation
Ms. Dutton gave a presentation on enforcement options and provided an update.
She explained that currently, according to Section 16-8 of the UDO, right-of-
ways must remain unobstructed to allow for the passage of people and vehicles.
Additionally, she clarified that alleyways should also be considered as right-
of-ways.
She went over some options for moving forward:
1.   Option: Enforce the ROW Ordinance as it is written:
   a.   All existing encroachments must be removed by a certain deadline; Or.
   b.   All existing encroachments can remain until a time the City needs
access to the area, and then they will be removed and cannot be put back;
   c.   No new encroachments would be allowed.
2.   Option: Property owners are allowed to landscape and plant vegetation in
the City’s ROW, but there cannot be any hardscapes (pavers, fountains,
decorative rocks, etc.)
3.   Option: Property owners can create parking spaces only in the ROW areas.
(how many spaces will be allowed (1-2?) (will they be reserved for the owners?)
what materials will be allowed?
4.   Option: Do not amortize ROW encroachments. Allow existing or new
encroachments until access is needed by the city or they cause a hazard.
   a.   The property owner can put the landscaping encroachments back at no
expense to the city.
5.   Allow landscaping around existing trees for protection against parking,
but do not allow other encroachments.
Alderman Carroll questioned the year the alleyways were closed by deed. Ms.
Dutton said that, according to her information, one was in the early 90s, but
she would look into the others. Alderman Davis questioned whether any money was
exchanged with these closures. Ms. Dutton said she would look into that.
Mayor Alt mentioned that several questions need to be addressed regarding the
alleyways. Some alleyways were legally closed, while others were encroached
upon, and there are still some that are uncertain. He suggested collecting more
information and deliberating on the subject once some questions were resolved.
Alderman Carroll brought up the issue of Wilmington lines running across
sidewalks for EV charging. He suggested having a discussion on how to handle
this situation in the event that a smaller lot without off-street parking needs
to be charged. Mayor Alt emphasized the need for city maps to be provided to
understand the situation better. Alderman Davis raised concerns about a
historical home built before zoning was established, which is located in 1/3 of
the ROW. She questioned whether the city knows precisely where the ROWs are
located. She requested a map showing the exact location of ROWs and whether
they extend into the owners' property. Alderman Mosteller noted that homeowners
typically complete a survey of their property. Alderman Davis stressed the
importance of determining exactly where the ROWs are, as sometimes property
owners may not have a survey. It was the consensus of the Board to discuss the
alleyways in more detail when more information becomes available.
F.   Public Comment
1.   Bob Holben,114 W. Moore St., expressed his disagreement with the three-
minute time limit for public comments. He appreciates the hard work done by the
Board and understands that important matters need to be discussed, but he would
like the Board to consider allowing the public to speak without any time
restrictions.
Mr. Holben discussed the ROWs and suggested that the city should clarify that
no changes are planned for areas with concrete sidewalks or hard curbs.
Property owners should be allowed to add and maintain the ROW in front of their
properties at their own risk. Regarding gravel parking areas, the city
recommends a maximum of 1-2 parking spots, but Mr. Holben questioned its
rationale. He cited the Lord St. residents' example, who have graveled both
sides of the street and made parking available. He questioned if there was a
prioritized list of sidewalk projects and if there would be a connectivity plan
to connect Lowe White, Taylor Field, and Kingsley Parks.
2.   Kathy Cabral, 308 W. West St., submitted comments read by Ms. Dutton. She
requested consideration for language in the UDO for ROWs that would permit
planting improvements and parking slots in the ROW if the property owner
chooses to do so at their expense. She said it is understood that it is city
property, and if the city has to remove landscape, etc., to work, then the
homeowners would be responsible for replacing anything removed. She feels like
the improvements made to the ROW by the residents add to the city's beauty and
charm.
3.   Pat Kirkman, 119 Park Ave., expressed her views on the ongoing discussion
regarding the right-of-ways (ROWs) and hoped that some decisions would be made
soon. She acknowledged that beautifying the historic district and downtown area
are the most discussed topics because they are in the city's heart. However,
she also requested the Board to remember the rest of the city and consider them
as well. She pointed out that some residents on her street have graveled their
whole yard and encroached upon some of the ROW. She hopes that the Board will
make clear and decisive decisions that will benefit the entire city.
Alderman Mosteller motioned to close public comment, seconded by Mayor Pro Tem
Kelley. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.  
G.    Mayor’s Comments
Mayor Alt stated that there are many ongoing projects and policy reviews. He
acknowledged the community's frustration with wanting action sooner and
encouraged them to continue providing feedback. He said the Board is working on
the budget for FY24-25, and planning requires time. Mayor Alt highlighted
persistent issues with ROWs and the need to improve the UDO. Parking is a
significant concern that affects ROWs. The Board is committed to serving the
city's needs and best interests.
H.   Board Comments
   Alderman Lai stated that the Board has a lot of work to balance, especially
during festivals when parking becomes a major issue due to tourism. He believes
ROWs should be considered for parking without unnecessary restrictions. The
goal is to achieve the best outcome for the city and its residents.
   Alderman Spencer addressed concerns about the city's regulations on ROWs.
The regulations aim to recover and protect city assets. Parking is already a
significant issue downtown, and there are concerns about work vehicles,
landscaping equipment, and boats left in ROWs in other areas of the city.
Enforcing ROW obstruction regulations is difficult in the long term, and people
may take over property that does not belong to them. Alderman Spencer suggested
discussing the materials being put in ROWs and leaving space for parking by
placing them at ground level.
Mayor Pro Tem Kelley made several suggestions to consider. She proposed
separating the discussion of alleyways and right-of-ways as two distinct
issues. She also would like more discussion on expanding the conversation
beyond downtown and addressing the issue of parking spaces for homeowners in
the historic district during construction. Additionally, she emphasized the
need for a separate discussion to evaluate the historic overlay in comparison
to the rest of the city.
Alderman Davis mentioned that there are a few places in the city where the
Right of Way (ROW) almost reaches the front door of a house, and homeowners
have surrounded it with landscaping, sidewalks, and mailboxes. She acknowledges
that it is a complex issue and that taking action to address it will be
challenging. She emphasized that the city needs a comprehensive master map.
Alderman Carroll stated that the city had established ordinances for managing
ROW-related issues, but they were not enforced for a long time. He addressed
the limitations of parking pads, which could lead to unattractive concrete
slabs on people's lawns. He cautioned that stormwater drainage could be an
issue that needs to be addressed alongside other concerns.
Alderman Mosteller is concerned about safety due to the limited use of the
right-of-ways (ROWs). Her street is only 18ft wide, and accessing the ROW is
the only way to stop or pull off the road. Homes are situated near businesses,
churches, parks, and pedestrians, and the network of sidewalks is inconsistent.
Cyclists and golf carts on the narrow roads limit options for emergency vehicle
access during a crisis. Fences and hardscapes prevent emergency vehicles from
utilizing the ROWs. Therefore, she believes that these wide ROWs provide less
obstruction of vision, which equals more safety. From her standpoint, she does
not favor grandfathering in fences and hardscapes for safety reasons.
Ms. Dutton provided important information after discussing it with the city
planners before closing the meeting. She mentioned that the width of a driveway
cannot exceed 50% of the total lot width. She further noted that if any changes
are made to the structure's footprint or the right-of-way (ROW) measurements, a
new survey is required. For older lots, staff refers to the plotted maps from
the 1900s to ensure consistency. Mayor Alt confirmed that a map containing all
ROWs can now be created from the available data. Ms. Dutton agreed to proceed
with the process of generating this map.
There were no further questions or concerns. Mayor Alt requested a motion to
adjourn. So moved by Alderman Carroll and seconded by Alderman Spencer.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
Adjournment— 6:53 p.m.
_______________________            _____________________________
Mayor, Richard Alt               Deputy Clerk, Tanya Shannon
April 1, 2024
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN Meeting Minutes
April 1, 2024     Community Building, 223 E. Bay St.
SOUTHPORT, N.C.   9:00 A.M.
 
Present:
   Mayor Rich Alt, Mayor Pro Tem Rebecca Kelley, Alderman Karen Mosteller, Lowe
Davis, Robert Carroll, Frank Lai, and Mark Spencer.
Absent:
   None
Staff:
   Bonnie Therrien, Manager; Dorothy Dutton, Assistant City Manager; Tanya
Shannon, Deputy Clerk; ChyAnn Ketchum, POI/Communications Director; Police
Chief Todd Coring; Charles Drew Fire Chief; Tom Stanley, Public Services
Director; Lance Flint, Finance Director; Mo Meehan, City Planner; Larry Ditton,
Electrical Superintendent; and Penny Tysinger, Permit Technician.
A.    Mayor Alt called the meeting to order at 9:00 A.M.
B.    Reverend Alderman Davis gave the Invocation.
C.    Mayor Alt led the Pledge of Allegiance.
D.   Public Comment 
1.   Adam Steadman, 5968 Dutchman Creek, petitioned the Board requesting funds
in the budget to relocate a tree that stands near the "Welcome to Southport"
sign at Walmart. He wants to move it before the widening project results in its
removal. According to him, a tree company has proposed to remove and relocate
the tree for approximately $1500-$1800. He has already spoken to Mr. Len, the
Chair of the Forestry Committee, and identified a new location near the
Waterfront where the tree can be replanted.
E.   Approval of the Agenda
   Alderman Carroll made a motion to approve the agenda, which was seconded by
Mayor Pro Tem Kelley. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
F.   Introduction of New Employees 
Penny Tysinger-Permitting Technician
Larry Ditton-Electrical Superintendent
G.   Presentations 
1.   Capital Improvement Plan
The City Engineer, Mr. Bob Jarvis, presented the second year of a six-year
Capital Improvement Program (CIP), which includes projects costing over
$100,000. The CIP is regularly updated, prioritized, and priced by staff. It
serves as a dynamic guidance document for annual budgets and long-term
financing needs. The multi-use program aims to collaborate more and receive
bond ratings and grants.
   The Board consensus was to break down the plan into what will need to be
appropriated for the projects depending on which type of funding will be
necessary, such as discretionary funding and non-discretionary funding. Mr.
Jarvis said he would happily break it down and delineate between the funding
and the sources.
2.   Audio/Visual Options and Discussion
   Communications/PIO Director ChyAnn Ketchum presented on the audio/visual
concerns and options for meetings. Some of the issues discussed included
difficulties viewing content on the VIBE board, problems incorporating remote
two-way participation with video, and challenges configuring the microphone
system, camera system, and screen presentation for viewing at the Indian Trail
Meeting Hall.
To address these concerns, several solutions were proposed. One option was to
replace the VIBE at the Community Building, which would cost between $7,000 and
$10,000. Another proposal was to bring the SCB VIBE board and mount it so both
the audience and the Board could view presentations at the Indian Trail Meeting
Hall at no cost. Upgrading the microphone, camera, and live-streaming system
was also suggested at around $40,000.
Alderman Carroll asked about moving the Community Building's equipment to the
Indian Trail Meeting Hall and installing new equipment at the Community
Building. Ms. Ketchum explained that the current system at the Community
Building was hard-wired, making it difficult to move the equipment. However,
she offered to explore the feasibility of the move.
The Board discussed prioritizing upgrading the projection screen and audio/
visual systems. It was suggested that a consultant be hired for cost-effective
solutions. Alderman Lai proposed an improvement where visual monitors can be
matched with the agenda item and page number for easy access. Alderman Spencer
proposed building chambers for the Board to offer a permanent solution. Mayor
Pro Tem Kelley suggested buying a large TV screen over the fireplace with a
mini split to aid visuals and inquiring about incorporating Zoom as part of the
meetings. Ms. Ketchum offered to research the feasibility. Alderman Carroll
questioned whether it was a top priority compared to other pressing projects.
Mayor Alt said that this is the preface for more discussion during the budget
workshops and also to discuss options for a permanent Board Chamber.
H.   Agenda
1.   Real Estate Services
Manager Therrien explained that The Board of Aldermen requested that a Request
for Proposals (RFP) be published to determine if it is feasible to hire a
realtor to represent the City when researching, purchasing, or selling real
estate. The bid opportunity was posted from February 1-February 23, 2024. One
proposal was received, and Ms. Marjorie Greene, representing Century 21
Triangle Group, attended the last meeting to provide a presentation and an
overview of their work. Ms. Therrien asked the Board If they wished to proceed
with this firm.
Alderman Davis stated that she had proposed hiring a real estate service to
handle property transactions for the City in order to avoid any potential
conflicts of interest with the Board. She believes this move will also ease the
burden on the City Manager. She appreciated the presentation from the one
response from the RFP Century 21 Triangle Group but would like to extend the
proposal for potential interest from other Real Estate Services.
Alderman Davis made a motion to authorize the City Manager to send out a new
Request for Proposals (RFP) for Real Estate Services. The motion also stated
that the City Manager should gather information from other municipalities on
their selection process and have further discussions before committing to
hiring a Real Estate Service. Alderman Carroll seconded the motion.
There was a debate on the necessity of this particular service. It was noted
that such matters are usually handled by the City Manager. Another person
suggested that a real estate service could be more useful when it comes to
selling property for legal reasons but not so much for purchasing. This would
thereby reduce the amount of commission fees.
Aye, Alderman Davis, Carroll, Mosteller, Kelley, and Lai. Nay, Alderman
Spencer.
Motion Carried 5-1.
2.   Authorization to Purchase Materials for Electrical Underground Project
Mr. Ellie Pittenger, the Electrical Superintendent, emphasized the importance
of timely ordering of materials for the upcoming East Moore Street underground
project. He explained that this is crucial to ensure that the project stays on
schedule and prices remain stable, thus avoiding any availability delays and
rapidly increasing costs of electrical construction materials. To proceed with
the project without any further delay, Mr. Pittenger requested approval for a
transfer of $860,000 from the Electrical Fund Balance to the budget line item.
This will enable BEMC to start work on the East Moore underground project.
Alderman Spencer asked about the start date for the project. Mr. Pittenger
explained that the labor portion is scheduled for the next budget year, which
is after July. He added that he is seeking approval on this budget to ensure
the materials can be ordered and ready in advance so there will be no delay
when the project is ready to begin.
Alderman Mosteller raised a concern regarding the underground project's
funding. She mentioned that $1.5 million has already been invested in the
project over the last few years and questioned if the newly requested amount of
$860,000 was in anticipation of additional costs. In response, Mr. Pittenger
explained that $1.6 million had been allocated in each budget cycle. He stated
that they aim to complete the project with a total budget of $1.84 Million.
Alderman Spencer made a motion to approve the money transfer from the Fund
Balance of the Electrical Account to Line Item # 30-93-7210-5900. Second by
Alderman Davis.
Alderman Mosteller expressed concerns regarding approving a purchase for the
following year's budget. In response, Mayor Alt explained that a similar
process had been followed in the past. He also pointed out that purchasing the
required materials beforehand would be proactive while they were still
available and before their prices increased. This would help avoid delays
during the project's initiation, which had happened previously.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
3.   Recycling/Yard Debris Collections, Neighbors to Neighbors
Finance Director Mr. Flint gave an overview of the discussion. He explained
that after the Water-Sewer Merger, the City will no longer have a mechanism to
collect fees directly for residential recycling and yard debris collection via
utility bills. The City will need to either identify an alternative method for
billing for the services or discontinue them as a City service.
Mayor Alt would like to confirm that the county is properly recycling. Mayor
Pro Tem Kelley said that in previous discussions, there was talk about asking
BEMC to add recycling/yard debris collections to their billing statements and
collect on behalf of the city. Mr. Flint said that with the water/sewer merger,
Brunswick County has agreed to collect for the services on behalf of the city
for a charge of around 10 cents per bill that would be charged back to the
customers.
Mayor Pro Tem Kelley motioned to allow Brunswick County to bill and collect
recycling and yard debris service fees on behalf of the city, which was
seconded by Alderman Carroll. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
Neighbors for Neighbors Program Discussion
Mr. Flint discussed the Neighbors for Neighbors program and asked for the
city's involvement in assisting low-income residents with water and sewer
bills. To apply for the program, residents can contact Brunswick Family
Assistance (BFA). Currently, 28 eligible senior residents receive a $40 credit
on their bills, while 10 non-seniors also qualify. The city receives a check
from BFA to cover their water/sewer bills.
The budget for the program in the Water-Sewer fund for FY24 is $13,650, with
the city paying about $1,200 per month (28 accounts) for participating seniors.
However, the budget is likely to be exceeded in FY24. The Board Donations
account budget also included $18,000 for the N4N program in FY24, but nothing
has been spent from this amount in FY24 or FY23. BFA sends payment to the City
from its own funds for participating non-seniors, around $400 (10 accounts)
each month, which is then applied as payments to the participant accounts.
During budget discussions, Mr. Flint requested the Board's decision on
allocating General Funds to BFA and whether the city should continue to
participate in the program after the water/sewer merger.
4.   Discussion and Consideration of Property for Lease
Manager Therrien explained that the city has an opportunity to lease space at
1669 N. Howe Street for a 5-year term. The building was previously a bank and
would provide additional space for the Police Department and allow City Hall to
expand. The monthly lease agreement is $5,520.83 plus utilities.
Alderman Mosteller motioned to authorize the City Manager to sign the lease
agreement with Admiral Holdings LLC for a five-year lease at 1669 North Howe
Street, as outlined on the attached lease, to be used for the Police Department
Headquarters. Alderman Caroll seconded.
Mayor Pro Tem Kelley noted that the building, formerly a bank, already includes
a vault, which is one of the reasons this space was selected: it would be used
to secure evidence in the Police Department.
Alderman Davis asked about the monthly rent of $5,520.83 plus utilities and the
expected annual increase after one year. Ms. Therrien confirmed a $130 yearly
increase for the next five years. Alderman Mosteller noted that the city has
been searching for this space to relocate the Police Department for over two
years.
Alderman Spencer said the current solution to the problem is only temporary.
This is because the city had previously decided not to allocate any funds for
the old City Hall/Courthouse. Although the Department has other buildings that
can be used, these buildings are also not suitable. While there is a need for a
space for the Police Department and City Hall, this solution is only short-
term, and long-term solutions need to be discussed further.
Aye, Alderman Mosteller, Carroll, Spencer, Lai, and Kelley. Nay; Alderman
Davis. Motion carried 5-1.
5.   Public/Private Donation Policy
Manager Therrien proposed a Public/Private Donation Policy. This policy would
establish a clear process for handling donations toward City projects or
events. As per this policy, all donations would be made through the City, and
the Finance Department would maintain written records and provide receipts. The
Rules and Procedures Committee drafted the policy, which was referenced by the
School of Government.
Alderman Mosteller expressed her support for a policy but suggested that the
Finance Director should review and create a new policy that can address
different types of public contributions for various events and projects.
Private partnerships often involve unique contractual agreements. She inquired
whether the policy aimed to establish a special revenue fund instead of a line
item. This would help in distinguishing and managing multiple projects and
events.
Mayor Alt has emphasized the need for a clear process and an accounting system
for all funds donated to the City. This process will ensure that there is a
proper record of the contributors, the amount of money donated, the project or
event for which the funds are intended, and when and how the funds were spent.
Mr. Flint explained that the intention is to carry out basic accounting
practices. He mentioned that donations are generally recorded under the
miscellaneous donations line item in the general fund. Over time, these funds
tend to merge with one another, making it difficult to keep track of them. To
make the cash handling process more efficient, he suggested that there should
be a separate line item in the system for each project or event, where
donations can be allocated. He emphasized the need for a unique fund code in
the accounting system so that each project or event can have its own fund. This
way, all donations can be tracked and managed effectively.
The discussion focused on how contributions are perceived and communicated. It
was agreed that a policy should govern the receipt and accounting of donations.
Alderman Mosteller made a motion to ask the Staff to review the language used
in the draft policy for Public/Private Donations to the City. The purpose of
the review is to improve the clarity of the language used in the policy to
distinguish procedures for different types of contributions and sources. The
goal is to establish a process that ensures transparency and accountability in
the handling of donations. Seconded by Alderman Lai. Unanimous Vote; Motion
Carried.
I.   Manager’s Report
Ms. Therrien provided an update on the Weather Tower Project and the League of
Municipalities' assistance and guidance on updating software for accounting and
grant writing using AARPA funds.
J.   Mayor’s Report
Mayor Alt thanked everyone for attending and viewing and encouraged citizens to
continue their participation with input and feedback. He announced that there
would be many meetings scheduled for work on the budget and encouraged the
community to attend.
K.   Board Comments
   Alderman Lai commented that this was a productive meeting and praised the
collaboration among all participants in making the best decisions for the city.
Alderman Spencer expressed gratitude towards Ben and Gibby Wilson for their
numerous contributions to the City. He also stressed the importance of
repairing and renovating Old City Hall while highlighting the need to
prioritize spending funds in a way that would lead to cost savings in the long
run.
Alderman Kelley confirmed that the Craft Fair will be along Bay Street during
the 4th of July Festival in light of Franklin Square’s closure.
Alderman Carroll reminded everyone of the Historic Preservation Commission
Meeting on Wednesday, April 3rd, at 4 pm. He announced that today is the last
day to apply for the Fire Department's Citizen Academy.
L.   Closed Session
   Mayor Alt stated that the Board of Aldermen will go into Closed Session
per NCGS 143-318.11 (a)
(6) To consider the qualifications, competence, performance, character, fitness, conditions of appointment, or conditions of initial employment of an individual public officer or employee or prospective public officer or employee; or to hear or investigate a complaint, charge, or grievance by or against an individual public officer or employee. General personnel policy issues may not be considered in a closed session. A public body may not consider the qualifications, competence, performance, character, fitness, appointment, or removal of a member of the public body or another body and may not consider or fill a vacancy among its own membership except in an open meeting. Final action making an appointment or discharge or removal by a public body having final authority for the appointment or
discharge, or removal shall be taken in an open meeting.
Alderman Carroll moved to enter a Closed Session, seconded by Alderman Spencer.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried . — 11:24 a.m.
   Alderman Spencer moved to enter back into Open Session, seconded by Alderman
Kelley.
There was no further business. A motion was made by Alderman Lai to adjourn and
seconded by Alderman Carroll . Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.  
Adjourn — 11:40 am.
__________________________________      ___________________________
   Mayor, Richard Alt            Deputy Clerk, Tanya Shannon
April 8, 2024
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN Special Meeting Minutes
April 8, 2024     Community Building, 223 E. Bay St.
SOUTHPORT, N.C.   9:00 A.M.
 
Present:
    Mayor Rich Alt, Mayor Pro Tem Rebecca Kelley, Alderman Karen Mosteller,
Lowe Davis, Robert Carroll, Frank Lai, and Mark Spencer.
Absent:
   None
Staff:
   Bonnie Therrien, Manager; Dorothy Dutton, Assistant City Manager/City Clerk;
Bob Jarvis, City Engineer; Tom Stanley, Public Services Director; Lance Flint,
Finance Director; and Heather Hemphill, Parks and Recreation Director.
A.    Mayor Alt called the meeting to order at 9:00 A.M.
B.    Reverend Alderman Davis gave the Invocation.
C.    Mayor Alt led the Pledge of Allegiance.
E.   Approval of the Agenda
   A motion was made by Alderman Kelley to approve the Agenda with an amendment
for the award of Arborist for Franklin Square Park Preservation and Rate
Committee Appointment. Alderman Lai seconded the motion. Unanimous Vote; Motion
Carried.
F.   Special Presentations
1. Shoreline Stabilization Project Update (Bob, Jarvis, City Engineer, and C.
Creed, Olsen Engineers).
   Mr. Jarvis provided a brief summary of the project. Then, Mr. Creed updated
everyone on the progress made so far and discussed future plans. He explained
that the Cape Fear River shoreline had been continually eroding due to wind,
ships, tides and currents, storm surges, and rising sea levels. He said they
are continuing to explore several options and are considering a phased project.
The project goals are to provide reliable protection to upland infrastructure,
improve recreational access and use, restore the beaches and dune/marsh
habitat, plan for future sea level rise, plan for larger and more frequent
boat/ship traffic, minimize the need for future maintenance and work with
funding limit and time constraints of the $5M grant that will expire on June
30, 2026.
   The Board discussed concerns regarding storm surge and flooding. While Mr.
Creed acknowledged that revetments would help, they won't guarantee the
prevention of flooding under certain conditions. Mr. Creed said that they want
to select the most efficient materials for the design to create better
stabilization.
   Mr. Creed explored different options for the project, which involved
stabilizing four individual segments. These areas were divided into four parts,
with Area One starting from the west end of Bay Street and Area Four commencing
from the east of the city pier. According to Mr. Creed, the most crucial areas
were One and Two. He reviewed two options, A and B, which addressed each area
separately in phases.
   There were some concerns regarding the property adjacent to the project
areas. Have they been adequately informed, and is there any pushback? Ms.
Therrien stated that one property has pushed back but not appealed. Mr. Jarvis
confirmed that the City Attorney had already been consulted about the riparian
rights and had been informed of the updates. He also reiterated that once the
Board decides how to proceed, the City Attorney will advise the city on the
best course of action.
After reaching a consensus, the Board decided to act on areas one and two that
require the most urgent stabilization.
Mayor-Pro Tem Kelley motioned to authorize Mr. Chris Creed, P.E. from Olsen
Associates, LLC, to move forward with Option B for areas One and Two. This
option involves detached breakwaters and sand fill. However, further
discussions regarding areas three and four will continue at a later date.
Second by Alderman Spencer. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
Break—Call back to order 10:57 am.
Due to a time-sensitive matter, Mayor Alt requested a Closed Session at the end
of the meeting per NCGS 143-318.11. A Motion was made by Alderman Spencer to
add a Closed Session to the Agenda, and second by Alderman Carroll. Unanimous
Vote; Motion Carried.
F.   Agenda
1.   Discussion of Possible UDO Changes.
   Ms. Therrien requested the Board to review the previously issued list of
possible UDO changes and indicate any items they want added or removed.
   Alderman Mosteller proposed a few items for further discussion. These
include proposing a gateway entry corridor overlay district and reviewing the
3.11 building design standards for any necessary updates. Mayor Alt requested
that these additions be submitted to the City Clerk for the record and then
back for discussion on all the recommendations.
2.   Manager Therrien stated that the Rules and Procedures Committee suggested
that there should be a written description outlining the roles and
responsibilities of the Board Liaisons. The primary goal of this proposal is to
ensure that the Liaisons consistently report information to the Board in a
standardized manner. There was a discussion about the extent to which Liaisons
can interact with the Boards and Committees during meetings, as well as the
roles and responsibilities of the Chairs. The Board discussed how
appropriations are made for Boards/Committees and for the Board as a whole to
be aware of projects. The proposed form for Liaisons to fill out and provide
back to the Board was proposed. The consensus of the Board was to start with
creating a policy for the roles and responsibilities of the Chairpersons of the
Boards/Committees and provide an orientation every year or as a new Chairperson
may be appointed on what the procedures and policies are.
   Alderman Carroll made a motion to direct the City Manager to develop a
policy that outlines the roles and responsibilities of Chairpersons for Boards
and Committees. The policy should also ensure that Chairpersons receive
orientation on the process and procedures of their role when appointed annually
every June/July. Second by Alderman Lai. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
    The Board discussed the policies for the roles of the Liaisons. The
discussion revolved around the ways to report back to the Board, whether by
sending an email update immediately after the meetings or providing minutes of
the discussions. Alderman Mosteller pointed out that some committees only
provide the agenda topics, while others provide detailed minutes. The presented
draft of the roles and responsibilities seemed to support more of the staff
roles rather than the Liaisons, said Alderman Mosteller. Alderman Davis
suggested sending the recommendations to the Rules and Procedures Committee
(Mayor Alt, Alderman Lai, and Carroll) for their input on advising the roles
and responsibilities of Liaisons. The Board agreed to send these suggestions to
Mayor Alt, copy the City Manager, and return to the Board for more review and
discussion.
3.   Award for Franklin Square Park Arborist
   Manager Therrien said that requests for quotations (RFQs) were sent out for
tree removal at Franklin Square Park, which professionals recommended removing.
Ms. Therrien further explained that one bid was received from a company that
Everett Jones had recommended, J&D Tree Pros, at a quote of $44,000. If the bid
is accepted, J&D Tree Pros could start the work in mid-April, and it will take
them three days to complete. Additionally, Ms. Therrien also noted that she
received a quote from Bartlett for the request to have the cabling and pruning,
which is $16,000. However, she clarified that the total appropriation is
$50,000, so it will not be possible to complete all the work at once. She will
return to the Board in May to advise on the gap. After a discussion on the
clarification of the total number of trees to be removed, the Board reached a
consensus to have the City Manager review the recommendations and provide
clarification on how to proceed.
4.   Appointment of the Ad Hoc Rate Committee.    
   Mayor Alt has appointed himself, Alderman Spencer, and Lai to the Rate
Committee.
G.   Closed Session
   Mayor Alt announced that the Board would be voting to go into a Closed
Session per NCGS 143-318.11 (a)(6) To consider the qualifications, competence,
performance, character, fitness, conditions of appointment, or conditions of
initial employment of an individual public officer or employee or prospective
public officer or employee; or to hear or investigate a complaint, charge, or
grievance by or against an individual public officer or employee. General
personnel policy issues may not be considered in a closed session. A public
body may not consider the qualifications, competence, performance, character,
fitness, appointment, or removal of a member of the public body or another body
and may not consider or fill a vacancy among its own membership except in an
open meeting. Final action making an appointment or discharge or removal by a
public body having final authority for the appointment or discharge, or removal
shall be taken in an open meeting.
   A Motion was made to enter into a Closed Session by Alderman Carroll and
second by Alderman Kelley. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried. — 12:33 p.m.
   A Motion was made to return to Open Session by Alderman Kelley and second by
Alderman Carroll.  Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
H.    Mayor and Board Comments
   Mayor Alt reminded everyone about the upcoming meetings and encouraged them
to attend.
   Alderman Davis announced that Ms. Alexis-Gore Graves will speak about the
John C. Smith Cemetery on April 9th. She reminded everyone to submit their
applications for appointments to the Board and Committees by April 30 th .
There was no further business or discussion. A Motion was made by Alderman
Davis to adjourn and second by Alderman Carroll. Unanimous Vote; Motion
Carried.  
Adjourn—12:33 p.m.
                  ______________________
                  Mayor, Richard Alt
__________________________
Deputy Clerk, Tanya Shannon
April 23, 2024
Workshop Minutes
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN Workshop Minutes
April 23, 2024    Community Building, 223 E. Bay St.
SOUTHPORT, N.C.   2:00 P.M.
 
Present:
   Mayor Rich Alt, Alderman Mosteller, Carroll, Spencer, Lai, and Davis
(remote).
Absent:
   Mayor Pro Tem Kelley
Staff:
   Bonnie Therrien, Manager; Dorothy Dutton, Assistant City Manager; ChyAnn
Ketchum, POI/Communications Director; Fire Chief Charles Drew; Police Chief
Todd Coring; Kate Marshall, APS Officer; Allayna Dail, Community Relations
Director and Lance Flint, Finance Director.
A.    Mayor Alt called the meeting to order at 2:00 p.m.
B.    Alderman Spencer gave the Invocation. 
C.    Mayor Alt led the Pledge of Allegiance.
D .   Mayor Alt requested to move agenda item 5, Financing and Terms for the
Purchase of a Fire Engine and Ambulance, to the top of the agenda for
discussion. So moved by Alderman Mosteller and Alderman Lai. Unanimous Vote;
Motion Carried. 
   Alderman Spencer made a motion to approve the amended agenda, seconded by
Alderman Mosteller. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried. 
5.   Financing and Terms for Purchase of a Fire Engine and Ambulance.
   Fire Chief Drew is seeking final approval for a Capital Project for Fire and
EMS. He has been working on writing specifications for a new rescue and service
truck. The Chief explained the purpose and use of each truck in rescue
situations. He said this vehicle would also serve as a command service and
could replace some other vehicles. Chief Drew also shared that if the truck is
ordered before 5/1, there will be a 2% savings, and if it is ordered and paid
upfront, there will be a savings of $200,000. Additionally, if the fire truck
and ambulance are ordered together, there will be a further discount.
   Alderman Lai asked about the fire truck repair costs. Chief Drew reported
$40k spent in the past year, and the aging ambulance is also incurring
expenses. Mayor Alt suggested adding a penalty clause if the goods are not
received by the deadline to ensure NC purchase process standards for fire
departments.    
Alderman Mosteller asked about the financing for an ambulance, and Chief Drew
confirmed that it would come from the general fund. Payments for the ambulance
won't begin until 2025-2026. The fire truck will be financed through collected
fire fees.
Alderman Lai made a motion to approve the purchase of the 2027 Pierce Enforcer
225 HDR Walker Rescue Service Fire Engine Apparatus at a price of $1.2 million.
This price includes a deduction of $217,000, with the lowest financing option
provided by the Finance Department from local financial institutes. The motion
also authorizes the City Manager and Finance Director to use the general fund
to make the purchase if the bank loan has not been closed by the due date, with
the bank loan then replenishing the general fund. Second by Alderman Spencer.
Alderman Mosteller clarified that the fire truck would be paid for using the
collected fire fees. Chief Drew confirmed that this was correct. Unanimous
Vote; Motion Carried.
   Alderman Lai made a motion to approve purchasing a 2027 Osage Ford gasoline
two-door ambulance from Southern Specialty Vehicles for $417,000. The Finance
Department will provide the lowest finance option for the Local Financial
Institutes. This purchase will be funded from the City Budget. Second by
Alderman Spencer. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
E .    Budget Presentation
Manager Therrien and Assistant City Manager Dutton presented the proposed FY24-
25 budget highlights. They explained changes, revenue sources, fund balances,
proposed capital lists, and potential additional revenue sources.
A one-cent tax increase has been proposed to fund capital projects totaling
$145,000. Due to the merger, the Board has allocated $1.2 million from the
Water/Sewer Fund to offset General Fund salaries. However, other expenses
totaling an estimated $379,000 still need to be transferred from the Water/
Sewer to the General Fund. This year's General Fund allocation to the Fire/
Rescue Department is $161,010. The proposed budget also includes $162,584 set
aside for Salary Study Adjustments and a 3.5% Cost of Living Increase for
Employees. Additionally, there is a new 6-year Capital Improvement Plan with
ongoing and recommended projects. Ms. Dutton reviewed the General, Electrical,
Powell Bill, and Capital Funds.
Ms. Therrien discussed the proposed capital list to be funded through the
capital fund, with total revenues of $1,808,625. Some of the proposed projects
include a new police facility, road improvements, a new recreation center, and
shoreline stabilization. Possible revenue sources, such as business
registration fees, animal taxes, stormwater management services, special
assessments, and motor vehicle license tax, were also mentioned. During the
discussion, the condition of certain city facilities and associated repair,
usage, and revenue costs were addressed. Ms. Therrien emphasized that the Board
must determine the intended use of the buildings before making any decisions.
F.   Agenda
2.   Police Department and Animal Protective Services
Chief Coring outlined the department's structure and mission, emphasizing
integrity, professionalism, and service. He updated call statistics, noting a
slight increase. Major Burke discussed finalizing the move to a new facility,
staff training, community engagement, agency operation, and improving the
department's response to community issues. Major Burke highlighted upcoming
goals, including maintaining accreditation, developing new community engagement
programs, and enhancing APS/Police Operations.
Major Burke explained that two requests in the proposed budget are a shift
differential for officers on night shifts and a career development program for
new officers, including a step program for salary increases as they progress in
their training.
Mayor Alt asked about paying for the cadets' Basic Law Enforcement Training
(BLET). Major Burke explained that cadets are usually compensated for training,
and their schedules are adjusted to accommodate it. If the city sponsors the
cadets, the training cost would be around $300, with the Federal Law
Enforcement Training program covering the rest (around $1,500).
Alderman Mosteller questioned Chief Coring about the part-time APS assistant,
and she did not see that in the budget. Major Burke said it was designated
under APS salary and allocated explicitly for on-call services. Alderman
Mosteller also mentioned a concern with ‘farming’ out the APS Officer with
Development Services. She believes it does not support Community Values as the
APS has many duties and responsibilities, including a 28-page Animal Welfare
Ordinance to follow. She said this had been tried before and did not work.
Manager Therrien explained that after reviewing calls with the Police
Department and the Animal Protective Services, it was found that the number of
calls for the Police outweighed the calls for APS. As a result, she recommended
that the APS Officer, who has experience with zoning, assist the Development
Services Department. She stated that the numbers do not justify the need for a
full-time APS Officer and would like the officer to take on additional
responsibilities to remain full-time instead of part-time. Alderman Mosteller
mentioned that there is a lot more involved than just calls and that there is
also a significant amount of community service involved, similar to policing.
Ms. Therrien requested the Board also look into staffing Police and Fire for
significant events. She asked the Board to consider whether to charge fees for
these services for events; she said this would be a policy decision. Chief
Coring noted that an option for some events could be for Off Duty Management
(ODM) for officers to be paid by the event organizers versus paid overtime.
Alderman Mosteller asked if the budget included the kennel and temporary
holding facility next to the River Road Animal Hospital. Chief Coring confirmed
that it is included in the budget and the APS office on Rhett Street for
operational services.
3.   Development Services Budget Overview
Ms. Dutton explained that the Development Services comprises two divisions:
Planning and Code Enforcement and Building Inspections and Permitting. All
revenue generated by Building Inspections and Permitting must be spent with the
Department and their expenses. Estimated revenues for FY24-25 are $800,000.
The Planning and Code Enforcement department brings in about $30,000 annually
but does not generate enough revenue to cover all its expenses. The Rate
Committee will review proposed changes to Planning/Zoning fees, as some are
below average. Approximately half of the Director of Development Services
position is funded by the Inspections/Permitting Division, and there is a
vacancy for the Director of Development Services.
There was a discussion about evaluating the current fees in the development
services department. The goal was to have the Rate Committee recommend
adjustments to increase fees currently priced too low to generate enough
revenue to fund all staff salaries and make necessary adjustments to cover any
shortfalls.
4.   Community Relations and Community Building Budget Presentation
Ms. Dail provided an overview of the primary funding sources for the Community
Relations Department, including revenue from occupancy tax collection and
renting out the Southport Community Building for events. The projected revenue
for the FY25-26 budget is as follows: $200,000 from Community Building Rental,
$210,000 from Local Occupancy tax, $15,000 from Tourism Special Events, and
$7,500 from Gift Shop Donations. Budget requests for FY 25-26 include
allocating funds ranging from $3,000 to $5,000 for the Beautification
Committee, $3,000 for the Cemetery Committee, and $10,000 for new lights on the
Holly Trees on Moore and Howe St.
Mayor Alt mentioned that an organization could rent Franklin Square Park and
pay the city a fee. The city would now collect funds from vendors. Ms. Dail
confirmed this change. Mayor Alt asked about the impact on the budget. Ms. Dail
explained that they are currently collecting all funds and expect higher
revenue in 2025. She noted that it was not reflected in the budget due to
uncertainty about future events. Mayor Alt inquired about the estimated revenue
if all scheduled events were to take place. Ms. Dail said she would provide
that information later. Mayor Alt and Alderman Spencer discussed the cost-
effectiveness and rental fees for events. Ms. Dail explained that this year's
fees remain unchanged at $30 for a weekly booth or $300 for a season.
Ms. Dail discussed the chair cushions for the community building. She said that
is a budget request for all the chairs for stadium-style events or meetings.
She noted the community building deck needs to be replaced. She said the
project is to replace the existing deck, but there has been some discussion
about the type of materials. She said that it appears that it would most likely
be replaced by wood.
There was a discussion about how funds are distributed from the ABC budget. A
certain amount is allocated for first responders and for the city schools. It
was noted that there has been a long tradition of allocating funds to the
school for various projects. Alderman Spencer suggested that the Board should
attend special events that promote growth and entrepreneurship as a group. He
recommended that the Board as a whole should present the school with the yearly
donation.
Finance Director Flint concluded the meeting by briefly explaining how to
interpret the budget sheets. He discussed allocating funds to the three major
departments and emphasized the importance of accurately representing fund
transfers rather than fragmenting the costs across different departments.
G.   Manager’s Comments
Ms. Therrien announced two budget meetings for next week and requested the
Board provide her with dates for the deliberation meetings. It was agreed that
the Board would contact the city manager about their availability.
H.   Mayor’s Comments
Mayor Alt expressed he is looking forward to the continuation of the workshops,
emphasizing that it is an opportunity for growth and a vital part of the
budgeting process.
I.   Board Comments
Alderman Mosteller expressed appreciation to the staff for compiling the budget
information.
A Motion was made by Alderman Spencer to adjourn and seconded by Alderman Lai.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
Adjourn—4:01 p.m.
_______________________
Mayor Richard Alt
               ___________________________
                  Deputy Clerk, Tanya Shannon
April 29, 2024
Workshop Minutes
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN Workshop Minutes
April 29, 2024    Community Building, 223 E. Bay St.
SOUTHPORT, N.C.   9:00 A.M.
 
Present:
    Mayor Rich Alt, Alderman Kelley, Mosteller, Carroll, Spencer, Lai, and
Davis.
Absent:
   None
Staff:
   Bonnie Therrien, Manager; Dorothy Dutton, Assistant City Manager; ChyAnn
Ketchum, POI/Communications Director; Fire Chief Charles Drew; Patti Fortuna,
Human Resources Director; and Lance Flint, Finance Director.
A.    Mayor Alt called the meeting to order at 9:00 A.M.
B.    Alderman Spencer gave the Invocation.
C.    Mayor Alt led the Pledge of Allegiance.
D .   Alderman Lai motioned to approve the Agenda seconded by Alderman Kelley.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
E.   Agenda
1.   Fire Department and EMS/Rescue Budget
Chief Drew explained that the Fire Department serves Southport, Caswell Beach,
and other areas outside the city’s corporate limits, totaling roughly 16,000
residents. The revenue comes from the entire district, including fire fees,
inspections, recovery fees, and donations. This year, the department has a
$160,000 deficit, and there may be a 10% budget increase due to a potential
OSHA law. The current staffing level consists of three employees working 24-
hour shifts, with 24 hours on and 48 hours off. Finding volunteers for the 24-
hour shifts has become challenging despite offering a $125 stipend. The budget
request seeks to add three additional full-time firefighters to have a Captain
and three full-time firefighters on each shift.
Chief Drew reviewed the capital equipment expenses, including turnout gear,
water supply hose, fire nozzles, ejection fans, and thermal imaging cameras.
The total requested budget for capital equipment is $105,000.
Alderman Carroll asked about the payoff for the Fire Headquarters. Chief Drew
mentioned that it would be paid off in 2029, with the Fire Department paying
$125,000 a year and the city subsidizing $119,000. The debt service is split
between the Fire Department Budget and the Administration. Chief Drew added
that $220,000 will be paid over the next four years, with the final payment
being $400,000 in 2029.
Mayor Alt asked if the Caswell Beach Fire fees were around $312,000. Chief Drew
said yes. Mayor Alt asked how much it costs to operate the station. Chief Drew
said around $100,000 personnel-wise. There are typically only 20 calls in this
location per year. He explained that they do not have to pay any fees for the
building or utilities, maintenance, or insurance, and Southport only provides
the personnel and the fire equipment.
Alderman Davis is requesting a transparent breakdown of the fire district fees
to be made publicly available, detailing what they cover in addition to
property taxes. Manager Therrien, Chief Drew, and PIO Ketchum will collaborate
to ensure this information is posted for public viewing.
2.   Administration
Ms. Dutton reviewed the proposed budget for the Administration, which includes
the Board of Aldermen, City Manager/Assistant City Manager, City Clerk/Deputy
City Clerk, Human Resources, Public Information Officer/Communications, one of
the part-time Engineers, and the IT Department. PIO ChyAnn Ketchum went over
the equipment and software needed to stream and manage the city website.
There was a discussion about audio/visual improvements estimated to cost
$50,000. Alderman Davis suggested deciding on the plans for existing buildings
and their uses before investing in new equipment. She noted that while the
current setup is not perfect, it is functional. There was also talk about
reducing attorney fees. Manager Therrien mentioned that initial concerns have
been addressed, resulting in a decrease in calls and requests. Ms. Dutton
reported good progress in digitizing records, and the budget request will
ensure continued preservation efforts. Additionally, there was a discussion
about the portion of ABC revenue donated to the school, highlighting the need
to show how the funds are being used.
Alderman Spencer recommended increasing the board's travel and training budget.
He believes the proposed amount is insufficient for the Board to fully
participate in functions and conferences. Additionally, he suggests increasing
the Mayor's stipend to at least the same amount as that for the Board members.
Break—10:56 a.m. Return—11:00 a.m.
Human Resources Director Fortuna stated that NeoGov software will still be
implemented for the Human Resources Management and Recruitment system. She
mentioned that the proposed budget includes employee recognition luncheons and
HR travel and training allocations. She discussed the pay classification and
study conducted by Evergreen. The comparison with adjacent counties revealed a
deficit in the city’s current compensation. The proposed plan also focuses on
recognizing tenure and giving credit to staff who have been with the city for
many years. She provided an overview of the current and proposed pay plans by
departments and positions. The discussion covered the salary study and merit
raises. Some Board members suggested that the merits should be based on a bell
curve and that underperforming employees should be held accountable by their
department manager and provided with ways to improve. Mr. Lai emphasized the
need to implement this process, as it has not been done in many years. Ms.
Fortuna also went over the new Health Insurance coverage with Aetna.
3.   Finance Department
Mr. Flint discussed department staff positions, duties, and non-personnel costs
used citywide. He saved $9,000 by eliminating unused financial software
modules. Additionally, he requested a new position to allow for recruitment and
training ahead of an expected retirement in 2025.
He explained that a skilled treasurer is needed to manage its cash, revenue,
investments, grants, and potential future bond issuances. It was suggested that
adding a Treasurer to the required Tax Collector job title would attract
candidates with the necessary skills more effectively. The Finance Department
will be implementing Black Mountain Financial software in spring 2025 and
developing the budget. The recruitment presents an opportunity to identify a
candidate who can be developed as a future Finance Director candidate. Up to
$50,000 is allocated for six months of job training and knowledge transfer.
Recruiting efforts are set to begin in October with the objective of having a
Treasurer seated by January 1, 2025, allowing for 4-6 months of training and
knowledge transfer before reverting back to 6 FTEs. The possibility of training
current staff members to fill the treasurer/tax collector position was
discussed. Mr. Flint recommended hiring someone already skilled and experienced
in this role. Mayor Alt agreed, emphasizing the importance of the position and
the need for the most experienced candidate.
4.   General Revenues
Mr. Flint reviewed the general revenues but stated that the fund balance is the
focus. He explained the general revenue budgeting approach. The estimates of
annual revenue sources are conservative. The revenue plan uses the one-time
provision from the water-sewer fund. $1.2M of appropriated fund balance bridges
the first-year funding gap from the water and sewer revenue loss. He said this
is non-recurring revenue, and the next budget cycle must solve this gap. Mr.
Flint believes that the revenue numbers will increase over time.
Mayor Alt questioned how much the city's sales tax generates and what
percentage the city gets back. Mr. Flint said that the State Revenue Department
does not track funds at a municipal level. Discussions were held regarding
donations, itinerant merchants, and cemetery revenues. Also, there was a
discussion about opening another ABC store at the Southport Crossings shopping
center that would generate more revenue.
F.   Managers Comments:
Ms. Therrien inquired whether the Board wished to review the capital
improvements program at the upcoming meeting to ensure Mr. Jarvis would be
present. It was agreed that the Board would like Mr. Jarvis to attend. She also
reminded everyone about the Comprehensive Plan review for public input on 4/30
at 6 p.m.
The Closed Session was removed from the agenda.
The meeting was adjourned at 12:15 p.m.
______________________
Mayor Richard Alt
                  _____________________________
                  Deputy Clerk, Tanya Shannon
April 30, 2024
Regular Meeting Minutes
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN Meeting Minutes
April 30, 2024    Community Building, 113 E. Moore St.
SOUTHPORT, N.C.   9:00 A.M.
 
Present:
    Mayor Rich Alt, Mayor Pro Tem Rebecca Kelley, Alderman Karen Mosteller,
Lowe Davis, Robert Carroll, Frank Lai, and Mark Spencer.
Absent:
   Brady Herman, City Attorney
Staff:
   Manager Bonnie Therrien, Assistant City Manager Dorothy Dutton, ChyAnn
Ketchum POI/Communications Director, Parks and Rec. Director Heather Hemphill,
City Planner Mo Meehan, Electrical Superintendents Ellie Pittenger and Larry
Ditton, and Public Services Director Tom Stanley.
A.    Mayor Rich Alt called the meeting to order at 9:00 P.M.
B.    Alderman Reverend Davis gave the Invocation.
C.    Mayor Alt led the Pledge of Allegiance.
D.   Approval of Agenda
Mayor Alt requested a motion to approve the agenda. Aldermen Carroll made a
motion to approve the agenda for the Budget Deliberation Workshop on April 30,
2024; Mayor Pro-Tem Kelley seconded the motion. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carries.
E.    Agenda
1.   HICAPS Presentation—Results of the Environmental Assessment of the
Historic Courthouse (Dave Smith and Jonathan Layton, HICAPS)
HICAPS provided a slide show and presentation of the Old Courthouse building's
abatement plan. During their evaluation, HICAPS discovered mold, asbestos, and
lead in the building and its infrastructure. The HICAPS representative stated
that the building would need extensive renovation, removing all windows,
drywall, and anything within the structure that gave readings for mold,
asbestos, and lead.
HICAPS suggests going ahead with the abatement portion, obtaining bids from
contractors, and also making a containment area for the files and items within
the building that the City would need to save. Starting this would give the
Aldermen an idea of the contractors' prices. HICAPS stated that even if the
City chose to demolish the building, the abatement would have to occur prior to
the demolition work.
2.   Public Services and Electrical Department
Public Services
Manager Therrien asked Director of Public Services Tom Stanley to come before
the Board regarding budget items for Public Services. Director Stanley stated
that he had provided a budget to the Board. With the merger in the future, the
focus of the public services department will change dramatically. With the
merger change, he has to create a new department budget, but there will be a
learning curve during the merger. The Operating budget for Public Services is
bare bones, primarily due to the uncertainty regarding the Water/Sewer merger.
Manager Therrien stated that two employees from Public Services had been moved
to the Parks and Recreation budget, and Parks and Recreation Director Hemphill
would address that in more detail. Aldermen Mosteller asked if the number of
employees listed was accurate. Director Stanely stated that the correct number
of employees was twelve, which was to be reduced to ten when the two employees
mentioned above were shifted to Parks and Recreation.
Aldermen Davis asked Director Stanley to give them an idea of the future
structure of the Public Services Department. Director Stanely stated that there
would be two administrative employees, two garage mechanics, two building
facilities maintenance positions, five street division employees, two
custodians, and six grounds employees. The number of grounds employees does not
include the two that will go to Parks and Recreation, handling all park grounds
maintenance.
Director Stanley stated that some of the Public Services equipment, such as a
truck and a new mower that was recently purchased, would go to the Parks and
Recreation Department grounds employees to help budget extra costs with that
shift.
Mayor Pro-Tem Kelley asked which AC Units needed to be replaced within the
$20,000 line item that Director Stanely has in his budget. He stated that it is
a placeholder for future repairs required, as he sees at least one City AC unit
malfunction yearly.
Alderman Davis asked if the Street Sweeper or any of the needed maintenance for
the street sweeper were included in the budget. Director Stanely stated that it
only needed new brooms and that the purchase was accounted for in the budget he
presented.
Aldermen Lai asked what would happen if the two employees asked to move to
Parks and Recreation do not wish to. Mayor Alt stated that you would just take
the two employees that were the newest, and they will have no choice but to
move. Aldermen Carroll asked if these two employees would be paid less if they
were shifted to Parks and Recreation and Director Stanley stated they would
not.
Electrical Department
Electrical Superintendent Pittenger introduced his successor Larry Ditton, who
would be giving the budget presentation to the Board.
Superintendent Ditton stated that the Southport electrical grid provides
electricity for surrounding areas as well as a stream of revenue for the City.
The Electrical Infrastructure provides and finances its own operation,
maintenance and capital improvements. Their department does not draw outside of
that. Superintendent Ditton presented a slide show summarizing their Electrical
budget.
Superintendent Ditton stated that the budget proposal includes operations and
maintenance, Capital Improvements, increasing system reliability and capacity,
and improving city services. The biggest line items would be for the continued
overhead to underground conversion, pole replacements, and sectionalization/
mitigation. Another large line item would be for a second electrical point of
delivery. The line item would be for equipment and land purchase for this
future project. Manager Therrien stated that the urgency for this is not as
large, as the Indigo project is no longer moving forward. That being said,
Manager Therrien stated that it would be a good idea to go ahead and have this
in the budget and look into finding a property.
Superintendent Ditton stated that the last line item would be for the
installation of electric vehicle charging stations. This would be something for
both staff and citizens. Aldermen Carroll asked which level of charging this
estimate was for, and Superintendent Pittenger stated it was for the quick
charge stations. Mayor Pro-Tem Kelley questioned what kind of revenue these
stations would actually bring in and if it is a necessary expenditure when
there is a budget deficit.
3.   Parks and Recreation
Director Hemphill stated that the Aldermen can see an overview of the
facilities and parks that the Parks and Recreation Department utilizes for day-
to-day use within their packet. These facilities are either rented out to the
public or used for City programs. Also listed are the many programs and
activities, some of which have been in Southport for forty to fifty years.
Director Hemphill stated that the projected budgeted income from Facility
Rentals would be $12,000.00. This number could go up depending on the final
decision on the use of Franklin Square Park. She stated that Franklin Square
Park is the most rented park in the City. Hemphill showed that before and
after-school care and other recreation programs are projected to bring in
$40,000.00 in revenue.
Mayor Alt asked if Director Hemphill had given her input on the Rate Committee
reanalyzing the fees for all parks and recreation fees. She stated that she has
not and that they had revised and increased the fees two budget years prior.
Aldermen Carroll asked why the funds budgeted went up significantly when only
two new employees would be added. She stated it has to do with COLA effective
July 1 st , merit-based increases, and overtime, as well as the two additional
employees coming from Maintenance to Parks and Recreation.
Director Hemphill stated that the Parks Department wished to replace many of
the City trash cans, resurface basketball courts at Leonard St. and Caviness
Park, and computers for the transferred employees from Public Services. Mayor
Alt asked Hemphill if the City has any pickleball courts, and she stated that
we have one. Director Hemphill stated that it is not very expensive to convert
the basketball courts to pickleball.
The summer camp program needs another passenger van to transport the children
around during the summer. If another lease were provided, it would free up the
bus, and reduce the costs of CDL’s.
Manager Therrien stated that she and Hemphill would research pickleball costs
and how many people would wish to use them. They would then report back to the
Aldermen.
4.   Outstanding Issues
Manager Therrien stated that she was going to go over the Capital Improvement
proposed list with the aide of Engineer Bob Jarvis. She stated that a one-cent
tax increase would be within the plan.
Therrien stated that in the current capital fund, there are remaining funds
totaling $1,447,329.00 that are not assigned to a project. By law, this must be
assigned or moved to the General Fund. Therrien recommended using $216,000.00
in the general fund surplus.
F.   Manager’s Comments
    Manager Therrien stated that the Comp Plan meeting would be that evening at
6 P.M. She then stated that the Farmer’s Market would begin at 8 A.M. behind
the gym area.
G.   Mayor’s Comments 
    Mayor Alt thanked the Manager and Staff, for all of their hard work and
answering all the questions that the Aldermen have.
H.   Board Comments -- NONE
I.   Adjourn
Major Alt asked for a motion to Adjourn. Aldermen Carroll made a motion to
adjourn, seconded by Aldermen Mosteller. Unanimous Vote, All Ayes. Meeting
adjourned at 11:54 A.M.
__________________________
Mayor, Richard Alt
                  _____________________________
                  City Clerk, Sara Thomas
May 6, 2024
Regular Meeting Minutes
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN Meeting Minutes
May 6, 2024       Community Building, 223 E. Bay St.
SOUTHPORT, N.C.   9:00 A.M.
 
Present:
    Mayor Rich Alt, Mayor Pro Tem Rebecca Kelley, Aldermen Karen Mosteller,
Lowe Davis, Robert Carroll, Frank Lai, and Mark Spencer.
Absent:
   Brady Herman, City Attorney
Staff:
   Manager Bonnie Therrien, Assistant City Manager Dorothy Dutton, ChyAnn
Ketchum POI/Communications Director, Police Chief Todd Coring, Fire Chief
Charles Drew, Parks and Rec. Director Heather Hemphill, City Planner Mo Meehan,
Electrical Superintendent Ellie Pittenger, Public Services Director Tom
Stanley, and City Engineer Tom Zilinek.
A.    Mayor Rich Alt called the meeting to order at 9:00 A.M.
B.    Aldermen Davis gave the Invocation.
C.    Mayor Alt led the Pledge of Allegiance.
D.    Public Comment
1.    Judith Jeffries of Southport stated she was here to speak about the all-
inclusive playground proposed for Taylor Field. The citizens want this park,
just not placed by the dog park. She and other citizens will help re-write the
grants if it means finding a better-suited location for this playground.
2.   Michael Fox, 315 N. Rhett St., has used Taylor Field since 2005. He has
reviewed the Master Parks and Recreation Plan, and several things inside it
bewilder him. He does not support a bridge connecting to Lowe White. He
believes this would be difficult to maintain. He comments that the Aldermen and
Committees are doing a great job providing recreational activities, but parking
for these activities continues to be an issue. The city should be looking into
paid parking as a revenue option.
3.   Christine Wright, 211 N. Lord St., had only heard about the all-inclusive
park plan a few weeks prior. She tried to research in the archives when it was
mentioned and found that very difficult to locate. She likes to use Taylor
Field as her spot to reach her Zen and enjoys the wildlife at Taylor Field
daily. She noticed that the statements on the Parks and Recreation website for
adult activities relate to COVID time, and that appears to be the last time
they offered any updated adult activities to stay fit. She thinks that the City
should look into more outdoor activities for adults. She stated that it’s not
that the children are not important; the adult activities seem to be lacking
more. She loves the idea of an all-inclusive playground, but she believes the
City needs to step back and ensure it goes where it is best suited.
4.   Jeanne Brown-Busch, 416 N Burrington Ave., has come to talk about Taylor
Field. She is passionate about having an all-inclusive playground, a place of
equality and where people feel safe to be themselves. Many citizens appear to
be opposing the playground, but it is not that it is opposed. It is that,
perhaps, there could be a better location for it. Most importantly, the city
cannot afford this project. The City cannot afford to maintain this project.
After watching the Budget workshops, she realized that the City had more
significant issues to resolve before this all-inclusive playground project.
5.   Mike Carneiro, 608 N. Fodale Ave, stated that parking can be a big issue
with the City of Southport. He works for IPS Group as the director of DMV
services, supporting local, county, and state government entities for parking,
tolling, speed enforcement, etc. He would like to offer himself and his
services to the City for anything they need regarding the parking issue. With
his knowledge of parking management, he believes he can be a great asset to
future City decisions. He does not support paid parking in Southport and has
other ideas for solving the issue.
6.   Celeste Gosselin, of Southport, worked in special-needs support for nearly
40 years. She believes a better place can be found for an all-inclusive
playground like Smithfield Park. It could give disabled individuals more
opportunities to participate. It would also be more convenient for folks coming
from out of Southport City limits to use the park. Everyone comes to Southport
to enjoy their time; perhaps the City should consider those folks as well.
7.   James Newman, 301 E. West St., has several comments on the Taylor Field
inclusive park design. He believes it to be very elaborate, almost amusement
park-like. He noticed a zip-line included. What are the costs to maintain and
monitor this park, and how much would it cost the City in the long term?
Parking is also an issue, as there are times of the year when he cannot get to
his own house, much less a new state-of-the-art playground that people are
coming to.
8.    Karen Boyan, 310 N. Atlantic, agreed with the playground but not the
location. She has two college degrees and has spent years working with special-
needs children and individuals and with the Special Olympics. Perhaps the City
should table this issue and reach out to sister municipalities with citizens
who would likely utilize this park for their input. She suggested looking at
other City properties for the location of this park. Southport’s leaders need
to step back and review the comprehensive plan to see what the citizens
genuinely want.
9.   Sid Fortney, 413 E. Bay St., has owned property in Southport since 1987,
has seen the development of Southport over the years, and the parking issue has
always been present. The City plans to put additional parking along the side of
E. Bay Street, and he asks that the Aldermen reconsider this plan, as it is
unnecessary. It is not needed for Kingsley Park, as there are adequate parking
spaces. This additional parking will be an unnecessary nuisance.
10.   John Akins, 106 Kingsley Dr., wished to state that Bay St. does not need
additional parking. The curve on Bay St. does not need more congestion, and the
proposed additional parking would worsen this. Kingsley Park and Kingsley Dr.
have adequate parking already.
11.   Donna Fullwood, 807 Cape Harbor Dr., supports all-inclusive playgrounds
and spaces but also believes in the importance of ample green space. She does
not want to see all the green space go away for other activities other than a
playground. She is also concerned about the E. Coli in the creek close to where
the playground would be. She hoped to see signage along these creeks if there
was such a high content.
12. Gerald Donaldson (read by Assistant City Manager Dutton) of Southport
opposes the location of the all-inclusive playground in Taylor’s Field. He
stated that many species of birds and wildlife live there, and a high-traffic
playground would create a large disturbance for these animals.
13.   ChyAnn Ketchum (ready by Assistant City Manager Dutton), 4836 Tobago Dr,
Unit C, Southport, NC, issued a statement supporting the all-inclusive
playground. She stated that this includes not just children but also adults
with special needs or parents with physical disabilities, giving them an
opportunity to play with their children.
E.   Approval of the Agenda 
Mayor Alt requested that the agenda be amended to leave #1 as first, move #4 to
#2, move #6 to #3, and move #7 to #4.   Mayor Alt then requested to table item
#7, Creek Lab Results, to the first regular Aldermen Meeting in June
    Mayor Alt requested the above motion. Motion made by Mayor Pro-Tem Kelley
and seconded by Aldermen Spencer. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
F.   Special Recognition  
1.   Recognition of Robin Clark and Colleen Snipes
Mayor Alt wished to thank the City employees who do the tasks that most people
overlook. Colleen Snipes and Robin Clark handle the janitorial work, and do an
excellent job keeping the City facilities clean. Mayor Alt wished to thank all
City employees who make the City run, as they are not thanked enough.
2.   Introduction of New Employees:
Manager Therrien introduced Police Chief Coring, who then introduced three of
his new hire employees, listed below:
Timothy Barton, Police Officer
Nolan McLamb, Police Officer
Bobby Manus, Accreditation Specialist
G.   Agenda  
1.   Proposal by Crown Castle (E. Pittenger and Mike Moore)
Mayor Alt said he would turn the meeting over to Electrical Superintendent
Ellie Pittenger, who would introduce Daryl Forester.
Pittenger stated that Crown Castle was present to propose installing poles for
communications infrastructure. Daryl Forester, regional manager with Crown
Castle, has nationwide contracts with many different service providers. They
are trying to fix some of the coverage and capacity gaps in the County. He also
stated that there would be four proposed locations, two in Southport City
limits and two on NCDOT roads.
Aldermen Davis asked for specific addresses for the poles. Mr. Moore stated
that one would be on W. West Street, one by Fishy Fish Restaurant, one further
north near W. Leonard St., and one near Ft. Fisher Ferry. They anticipate a
30—to 40-foot-tall pole at each location. The lines being installed will be
underground and bored.
After additional discussion, Mayor Pro-tem Kelley motioned to table this topic
until a June meeting, pending more information on compliance with state laws
and the installation of such communication poles. Aldermen Davis seconded the
motion.
Aye: Aldermen Mosteller, Davis, Spencer, Lai, and Mayor Pro-Tem Kelley. Nay:
Aldermen Carroll. Motion Carried 5-1
2.   Endpoint Management Presentation and Budget Request (Dylan Warner,
Katalyst, and D. Dutton)
Manager Therrien introduced Dylan Warner, with Katalyst, to explain the need
for better cybersecurity for the City’s computer system.
Warner stated that he could not give specific reasons for the improvement work
without exposing issues with the City’s system due to privacy issues. But the
City could be much more secure than it is now. He stated that no State or local
government agency is legally allowed to pay a ransom if cyber criminals hack
and take a City hostage. The City does have best-in-class anti-virus software
and 24-hour monitoring, but as things stand now, there is no way to enforce
uniform policies on all workstations at the moment.
After some discussion, Aldermen Mosteller moved to approve $45,000.00 from the
Administrative Contingency Fund to work with Katalyst to install and utilize
Microsoft Entra ID and Intune in an effort to strengthen the City’s
cybersecurity. Aldermen Lai seconded the motion.rr3
Aye: Aldermen Lai, Spencer, Davis, Carroll, Mosteller. Nay: Mayor Pro-Tem
Kelley. Motion Carried 5-1.
3.   Franklin Square Park Tree Cabling (B. Therrien)
Manager Therrien stated that there was a three-phase plan to fix Franklin
Square Park’s tree issue. The cost estimate is $28,060.00 to complete the three
phases to get the Park safe again. She proposes these funds come from the
Administration Contingency Fund.
Manager Therrien stated that the job could be started the following week if the
funds were approved.
Aldermen Mosteller made a motion to approve the bid to Bartlett Tree Experts,
not to exceed $28,060.00, to be transferred from the Administrative Contingency
fund. Aldermen Lai seconded the motion.
Aye: Mayor Pro-Tem Kelley, Aldermen Lai, Davis, Carroll, Mosteller. Nay:
Aldermen Spencer. Motion Carried 5-1.
4.   Transfer Water/Sewer Fund Balance to General Fund for Public Safety Radios
(B. Therrien, Chief Drew, and Chief Coring)
Manager Therrien stated that the fire/police radios must be updated by 2025, a
state-wide mandate. Manager Therrien stated they would transfer $900,000.00
from the water/sewer fund balance to the general fund so that the radios could
be purchased and some left over for the OPEB commitment.
Aldermen Mosteller made a motion to transfer $900,000.00 to the general fund to
purchase the required radios and set aside funds to pay for benefits for the
three employees moving to the County. Aldermen Lai seconded the motion.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried
5.   Update on Brunswick Partnership for Housing (Sally Learned)
Sally Learned with Brunswick Partnership for Housing and wanted to thank the
Aldermen, Staff, and the City of Southport citizens. Their program provides
transitional housing for unsheltered people for a set amount of time until
permanent housing can be secured. The City has been very supportive of the
program since it began, and there is a transitional home in Southport. This is
breathing space for families to get on their feet.
She also wanted to thank the Southport Police Department for its support of the
program and its participants. They are considering possibly expanding their
program and finding additional transitional housing.
6.   Inclusive Playground at Taylor Field (Aldermen Davis)
Mayor Alt stated that he needed to leave the meeting and that Mayor Pro-Tem
Kelley would preside over the remainder of the meeting.
Aldermen Davis gave a summary of the history around this topic. Davis stated
that she continues to hear many questions and concerns from citizens about this
topic and future projects. She believes that the City dropped the ball on
public informational meetings regarding this project.
After further discussion, Aldermen Carroll moved to continue forward with the
Taylor’s Field project and grant submissions as intended and that Manager
Therrien reach out to the County and neighboring municipalities about
partnerships. Aldermen Spencer seconded the motion.
During the discussion regarding the motion, Aldermen Carroll withdrew his
motion.
Aldermen Davis proceeded to make a motion that the Board would take no action
until more information was gathered and presented to the public so that the
Board could revisit the topic at one of the June regular meetings. No further
grants would be applied for. Aldermen Mosteller seconded the motion.
Aye: Aldermen Mosteller and Davis. Nay: Aldermen Carroll, Spender, Lai. Motion
denied.  
Mayor Pro-Tem Kelley states that the project will move forward as it is, with
grant applications and planning. Manager Therrien will contact other
municipalities to gather information.
7.   Creek Lab Results (B. Therrien, T. Stanley, and T. Zilinek)---MOVED TO
JUNE MEETING
H.   Manager’s Report
Manager Therrien announced that ChyAnn Ketchum and Tori Deviney will be
graduating from Leadership Brunswick; congratulations to them. She also stated
that around 25 citizens attended the most recent Comprehensive Plan Meeting and
urged other citizens to show up and give their input on City projects.
I.   Mayor’s Comments  
Mayor Pro-tem Kelley stated that she wanted to recognize the City Staff for
their hard work in getting public notice and information out there for citizens
to see.
J.   Board Comments
Aldermen Davis stated that the Franklin Square Park survey is on the website.
She urged citizens to go online and give their input.
Aldermen Spencer stated that they are still working on the traffic/speeding
issues on the dangerous roads of Southport. Mayor Pro-Tem Kelley stated that
City Staff have been working with Google/Wayze, etc., to get the maps so as not
to show these streets as the main cut-through from the Ferry to the center of
Southport.
K.   Adjourn
Aldermen Spencer made a motion to adjourn, and Aldermen Lai seconded the
motion. The meeting adjourned at 12:14 p.m.
__________________________
Mayor, Richard Alt
 
                  _____________________________
                  City Clerk
May 9, 2024
Regular Meeting Minutes
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN Meeting Minutes
May 9, 2024       Community Building, 223 E. Bay St.
SOUTHPORT, N.C.   6:00 P.M.
 
Present:
   Mayor Rich Alt, Mayor Pro Tem Rebecca Kelley, Alderman Karen Mosteller, Lowe
Davis, Robert Carroll, Frank Lai, and Mark Spencer.
Absent:
   None
Staff:
   Manager Bonnie Therrien, Assistant City Manager Dorothy Dutton, ChyAnn
Ketchum POI/Communications Director, Brady Herman, City Attorney, Police Chief
Todd Coring, Fire Chief Charles Drew, Parks and Rec. Director Heather Hemphill,
City Planner Mo Meehan, and Public Services Director Tom Stanley.
A.    Mayor Rich Alt called the meeting to order at 6:00 P.M.
B.    Alderman Reverend Davis gave the Invocation.
C.    Mayor Alt led the Pledge of Allegiance.
D.   Mayor’s Comments
   Mayor Alt stated that the Board is aware of House Bills 1063 and 1064, which
many citizens have brought to his attention. House Bill 1063 would prevent
Southport from enforcing the Tree Ordinance on the ETJ property, and Bill 1064
would strip the County Municipalities of ETJ powers completely. Brunswick
County Commissioners circulated a letter regarding this issue on Wednesday, May
8, 2024.    
E.    Public Comment
1.   Christine Wright, 211 N. Lord St., stated that she is newer to Southport,
having purchased her home in 2017 and moved in full-time in 2020. Wright stated
that she admires the Board and their hard work in decision-making for the town.
She did research and could not find any mention of the Taylor Field of Dreams
Project online. She cannot find it in the Parks and Rec Master Plan passed in
2023 either. She supports an all-inclusive playground; she urges the City to
think about the project and its location a little longer.
2.   Kathy Cabral, 308 W West St., stated that she has read the proposed right-
of-way information, and that it goes a long way, but still falls short
regarding the issue of hardscape landscaping in the ROW. People use the ROW for
parking, walkways, etc. She believes that to move forward in a positive way,
the Board should look at hardscaping and decide what will and will not be
allowed going forward. One suggestion she gave was to warn citizens when the
hardscaping would be removed so that they could remove them for the City Staff
and place it back where it was prior.
3.   Maria Horton, 414 N. Burrington Ave., wants to break it down before making
a decision. She thinks the recommendations are good, but they are incomplete.
One suggestion was to keep everything status quo or remove everything in the
ROW. The time given (72 hours) to remedy the issue is prescriptive and
detrimental to the resident if they cannot remove it in the allotted time.
There is another recommendation relating to vegetation only. What about
hardscapes? What if you moved to Southport many years ago? Are your hardscapes
Okay to keep, or must they also be removed? This entire situation risks ruining
or permanently changing Southport's overall look and aesthetics. She is also
concerned about alleyways and who will maintain any encroachment into those
alleyways, whether the alleyway is on City property or a citizen-owned parcel.
The two issues should be dealt with separately, as they can pose many different
situations.
4.   W.M. Godfrey, 4952 Captiva Ct., No Comment
5.   Jack Daily, 4940 Captiva Ct., No Comment.
6.   Keren Boyan, 310 N. Atlantic Ave. (e-mail submission), stated that she
believed it wise to see and review the new Comprehensive Plan before making new
commitments for future projects. She states that she has checked through prior
minutes and agendas and cannot locate a public meeting held for input on the
Taylor Field of Dreams inclusive playground before April 23, 2024. During the
public special meeting on April 23 rd , she pointed out that the City staff and
City Manager did not seem receptive to citizen input and that it was just a
formality. She also claims that a complete site plan for the playground has not
been provided, and the City would be wise to wait for the Comprehensive Plan,
which thousands of dollars are being used to pay for, to be provided to the
City and its residents.
7.   Claudene Clarke, Harbor Oaks (e-mail submission), stated that she and her
husband are retired and live in Harbor Oaks. They had an issue with a pregnant
cat, and Kate with Animal Control was a great help in handling the cat issue.
They stated that Officer Marshall was responsive, professional, and well-
informed.
F.   Approval of the Agenda 
Mayor Alt requested that the agenda be amended to remove Agenda Item #1. Motion
to approve the change by Alderman Davis and second by Alderman Carroll.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
    Mayor Alt requested a motion to move Consent Agenda #5 to #1. A motion was
made to approve the agenda change by Alderman Kelley, seconded by Alderman
Davis. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
    Mayor Alt requested a motion to move Agenda Items #3 and 4 to items #2 and
3 on the agenda. The motion was approved by Aldermen Mosteller, seconded by
Aldermen Kelley. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried
G.   Approval of the Consent Agenda 
1.   Minutes of the Regular Board of Aldermen Meeting March 14, 2024
2.   Minutes of the Regular Board of Aldermen Meeting April 1, 2024
3.   Minutes of the Closed Session April 10, 2024 (Sealed Envelope)
4.   Minutes of the Special meeting April 8, 2024
5.   Project Ordinance Update: ARP SFFRF
Alderman Spencer made a motion to approve the Consent Agenda, seconded by
Alderman Davis. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried .
H.   Special Recognitions – NONE
I.   Agenda
1.   Budget Amendment and Reimbursement Resolution-HRV and Ambulance
Mayor Alt stated that the Board had voted at a prior meeting to order and pay
for a new fire truck and an ambulance for the Fire Department.
Chief Drew stated that both vehicles had been ordered, with the fire truck
costing $1mil, with a $230,000.00 savings, having been ordered before May 1,
2024, and the ambulance ordered at $417,000.00.
Mayor Alt stated that his purpose for bringing this up on the agenda was to be
transparent with the City and let them know how businesses must be run.
Manager Therrien stated that the Bond Counsel sent over the Resolution for this
Bank Loan, which must be read and adopted at a regular board meeting. Aldermen
Lowe asked Chief Drew to explain to the citizens why ordering these vehicles is
necessary and why it costs so much. Chief Davis explained that they are
replacing aged equipment and that the post-COVID equipment costs are making the
price tags high.
Aldermen Davis asked how these two vehicles would be paid for. Chief Drew
explained that the fire truck is paid out of Fire Fees, and the ambulance will
be paid out of the General Fund.
Mayor Alt read the Resolution and entertained a motion to adopt it. Manager
Therrien stated that the incorrect Resolution was read, so Mayor Alt called a
recess at 6:46 PM to locate the correct Resolution.
After returning from Recess at 6:50 PM, Mayor Alt read the correct Resolution.
He entertained a motion to adopt the Resolution of the City of Southport, North
Carolina, Declaring Its Official Intent to Reimburse Expenditures Under United
States Department of Treasury Regulations. Aldermen Carroll made a motion,
which Aldermen Mosteller seconded. Unanimous Vote; the Motion was Carried.
Mayor Alt stated that a motion would need to be made to enter the Public
Hearings. Aldermen Mosteller made a motion to enter the Public Hearings on
Turtle Bay Annexation and Rezoning, seconded by Alderman Lai. Unanimous Vote;
Motion Carried.
City Planner Mo Meehan briefly introduced the Annexation and the statutory
requirement for a public hearing before any annexation or rezoning of land in
City limits. Mayor Alt opened the floor for Public Comment.
2.   Public Hearing: Annexation of Turtle Bay Property (M. Meehan/D. Dutton)
No Public Comment regarding the Annexation of Turtle Bay.
3.   Public Hearing: Turtle Bay Planning Unit Development/Rezoning (M. Meehan) 
City Planner Mo Meehan gave a brief presentation on the Master Plan for this
development, provided for Turtle Bay, to the Planning Board. This is a 54-acre
parcel, the same as the one requested to be annexed into City limits. The
developer wants to rezone from Highway Commercial to PUD. Planner Meehan stated
that both a traffic and environmental study were completed for this project.
According to the UDO, the applicant has provided all required materials and
duties for this rezoning.
   Mayor Alt allowed for public comment regarding this public hearing topic.
Carolyn Hank, 5485 Old Baker Ave., is concerned with the zoning changes and the
effects of the new Turtle Bay development on her home and Southport. She asked
if the City had required them to do a traffic study and an environmental study.
She is very concerned about the safety of the traffic pattern outside her home,
the protection of the wildlife she sees around her property, and where the
development will be.
Ronald Thompson, 115 Thompson Dr., stated that the City needs to practice more
transparency regarding significant changes such as annexations and rezonings.
The rezoning can affect not just the property owner requesting it but also the
entire city in the future. The Board of Aldermen may change, but residents who
live in Southport full-time will have to deal with the long-lasting effects of
decisions and changes made now. He urges the Aldermen to take a careful step in
analyzing the rezoning, before voting it into place.
Mayor Alt stated that if there were no more public comments, the public hearing
on this topic would be complete, and the Board would decide at the next regular
Board meeting. Mayor Alt proposed a motion to leave the Public Hearings.
Aldermen Mosteller motioned to leave the Public Hearings, and Aldermen Spencer
seconded the motion. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
4.   Budget Presentation (B. Therrien and D. Dutton) (REMOVED)
5.   Rights-of-Way Discussion and Decision-Staff Recommendation (D. Dutton)
Assistant City Manager Dutton gave a brief presentation regarding the Right of
Way issue, previously presented and discussed during the March 11, 2024 Special
Board Right-of-Way Workshop. She stated the several options the Board has to
remedy the situation. After some discussion, the four-page document presented
to the Board in February of 2024 was proposed for adoption as an Ordinance by
motion. Mayor Pro-tem Kelley motioned to approve the document, with Aldermen
Mosteller’s recommendations. Aldermen Carroll seconded the motion; Aldermen
Spencer and Davis were a no; but all others were in favor. Majority rules,
motion carried.
Manager Therrien stated that she would clean up the document. Assistant Manager
Dutton stated that the document and a text amendment for the UDO would be
prepared, codified, and presented to the Planning Board for review.
6.   Call to Public Hearing: Setback Encroachments Text Amendment (M. Meehan)
Mayor Alt asked that City Planner Mo Meehan come up and explain why a public
hearing was needed.
City Planner Meehan stated that this concerns an encroachment text amendment
that started last September. The text has changed, so they would like to call a
Public Hearing to present the new language before it is voted on.
Mayor Alt entertained a motion to call a public hearing on June 11, 2024, for
the amendment Section 3.9.B of the UDO. Aldermen Carroll made a motion to call
the public hearing, seconded by Alderman Lai. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
7.   Next Steps—Old City Hall and HICAPS (B. Therrien)
City Manager Therrien stated that on April 30th, the HICAPS building consultant
came to the Board with the findings of the environmental review of Old City
Hall. HICAPS gave a price of $8500 to begin the bidding process. The
deliverables from this service would include a full set of bid documents,
specs, abatement, permit applications, and an updated budget based on
construction, drawings, and RFQ for the contractors. It would take roughly a
month to complete. She recommended taking the $8500 from the Administrative
Contingency Fund.
Mayor Alt asked Manager Therrien if they had allotted the funds for a review of
the building's structural integrity. Manager Therrien stated they had not, but
at this point, HICAPS does not want to do the structural review until the
environmental review has been completed. The bid documents would include the
price for the structural review.
Aldermen Davis stated that this is a multi-step process. They would approve the
funds to have HICAPS write up the specifications for bidding for the
environmental assessment.
After some additional discussion, Mayor Alt entertained a Motion to approve the
use of $8500 from the administrative contingency fund to allow HICAPS to
develop a request for qualifications so that the City can begin receiving
pricing for the environmental abatements on the Old City Hall Building.
Aldermen Carroll made a motion, seconded by Aldermen Lai. Unanimous Vote;
Motion Carried.
J.   Committee Reports
Aldermen Mosteller gave an update for the Forestry Committee. Their most recent
workday went well. She asked if the Mayor or Mayor Pro-tem could attend the
interviews for the applications for reappointment on Monday, May 13, 2024.
Mayor Pro-tem Kelley stated she would attend.
Aldermen Davis gave an update for the Parks and Recreation Committee. She
stated that there was no Vice Chair, and another committee member would be
filing in. Five applications for reappointment are pending, and Deputy Clerk
Shannon is working on scheduling interviews.
Mayor Pro-tem Kelley stated that the Planning Board had been very busy, and
that sign ordinance and other changes would be coming soon for the Aldermen to
review.
Aldermen Spencer stated that he was absent from the last Cemetery Committee
meeting but that the Committee wanted to come to a Board meeting to present
some of their new ideas.
Aldermen Lai stated that the ABC Board’s financials are looking good, and that
the Bourbon Lottery would be soon.
K.   Manager’s Report
Manager Therrien gave a quick update of things that citizens should be aware
of. The Comprehensive Master Plan survey is on the City’s website, it is up
until June. Franklin Square Park Survey is on the website until the end of May.
The 2024 Hurricane Expo will be Monday, May 13, 2024, at 5:00 P.M., and will be
highly beneficial for citizens to come learn.
Manager Therrien then announced the employment anniversaries of city employees,
including Jackie Smith's (5 years), Kelley Tooley's (2 years), Jackson
Francis's (2 years), and Officer Eric Mahoney's (1 year).
L.   Mayor’s Comments
Mayor Alt stated that the Board will be scheduling a special workshop regarding
the Stormwater Plan, and as soon as a time and date is set, it will be
advertised to the public.
Aldermen Davis also wished to discuss the multiplier plan/formula created by
former Planner Travis and see if the Board could make it more realistic.
M.   Board Comments
   Aldermen Spencer wished Planning Board member Will Hewett a Happy Birthday.
Mayor Pro-tem Kelley had a conflict with the budget workshop date for
Wednesday, May 15, 2024. The Aldermen, after a brief discussion, decided to
move the meeting to Tuesday, May 14, 2024 at 11AM.
Aldermen Davis welcomed City Clerk Sara Thomas back from her absence. She also
stated that the Memorial Day holiday was coming up soon, and there would be a
parade in Southport. That would be followed by lunches served by the American
Legion. Then, the daily flag lowering will begin until Labor Day.
Aldermen Mosteller stated that she had just finished the most recent Fire
Academy, and that applications for the Fall Citizen’s Fire Academy are still
being collected. She recommends the Fire Academy to everyone.
N.   Closed Session
   Mayor Alt read the Statute regarding the Closed Session:
Closed Session NCGS 143-318.11 (a)(3) To consult with an attorney employed or
retained by the public body in order to preserve the attorney-client privilege
between the attorney and the public body, which privilege is hereby
acknowledged. General policy matters may not be discussed in a closed session
and nothing herein shall be construed to permit a public body to close a
meeting that otherwise would be open merely because an attorney employed or
retained by the public body is a participant. The public body may consider and
give instructions to an attorney concerning the handling or settlement of a
claim, judicial action, mediation, arbitration, or administrative procedure. If
the public body has approved or considered a settlement, other than a
malpractice settlement by or on behalf of a hospital, in closed session, the
terms of that settlement shall be reported to the public body and entered into
its minutes as soon as possible within a reasonable time after the settlement
is concluded.
Aldermen Lai made a motion to enter the Closed Session regarding Attorney/
Client Privilege, seconded by Aldermen Carroll. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
8:22 P.M.
Aldermen Spencer made a motion to return from Closed Session, seconded by
Aldermen Davis. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
O.   Adjourn
There was no other business or comments. Mayor Alt requested a motion to
adjourn the meeting.
Motion to adjourn by Alderman Carroll, seconded by Alderman Mosteller.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
Adjourn—9:40 p.m.
__________________________
Mayor, Richard Alt
 
                  _____________________________
                  City Clerk, Sara M. Thomas
May 14, 2024
Budget Workshop Minutes
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN Budget Workshop Minutes
May 14, 2024      Community Building, 223 E. Bay St.
SOUTHPORT, N.C.   11:00 A.M.
 
Present:
   Mayor Rich Alt, Mayor Pro Tem Rebecca Kelley, Alderman Karen Mosteller, Lowe
Davis, Robert Carroll, Frank Lai, and Mark Spencer.
Absent:
   None
Staff:
   Manager Bonnie Therrien, Assistant City Manager Dorothy Dutton, Sara Thomas
Clerk, ChyAnn Ketchum POI/Communications, and Finance Director Lance Flint.
A.    Mayor Rich Alt called the meeting to order at 11:01 A.M.
B.    Alderman Reverend Davis gave the Invocation.
C.    Mayor Alt led the Pledge of Allegiance.
D.   Alderman Kelley made a Motion to approve the Agenda seconded by Alderman
Carroll. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
E.   Agenda
1.   Consensus on Budget Outcome (B. Therrien)
   The Board had a discussion on the direction in which they would like to see
the budget outcome. The Board's consensus was to prioritize main objectives and
essential needs. The City aims to achieve and sustain many things with the
current revenue. However, some members oppose any tax increases, while others
believe a small increase is necessary to support progress and future needs.
2.   Budget List Considerations
∙   Funding for the Cemetery Committee for $3,000. After discussion, Yay:
Alderman Lai, Spencer, Carroll, and Mosteller. Nay: Alderman Kelley and Davis.
4-2. Approve funding.
∙   Basketball Court Resurfacing for $7,000. After the discussion, Nay:
Alderman Carroll, Davis, Kelley, and Lai. Nay: Alderman Mosteller and Spencer.
5-2 Deny funding.
∙   Parks and Recreation-Laptop vs. Desktop. Manager Therrien mentioned that
the issue had already been addressed with the Parks and Recreation Director,
and it was decided that desktop computers would still be used. The requests for
laptops came from the grounds crew, who needed them for research materials,
inventory, and equipment. The Board will revisit this topic for further
discussion at a later time.
∙   Relook at CIP Land Acquisition and City Docks. Manager Therrien suggested
holding this discussion and incorporating it into the Capital Projects
discussion.
∙   Tennis Courts vs. Pickle Ball Courts. Manager Therrien said it would cost
the same to resurface the tennis courts or convert them into pickleball courts.
Since this would be a capital expense, it could be discussed at a later time.
Mayor Alt asked the City Manager to get an estimate for just repainting the
lines for pickleball use. The Board agreed not to include these costs in the FY
24-25 budget.
∙   Election Expense. This expense is required and must be included in the
budget for $5,500.
∙   Board of Aldermen Travel (increase) $5,000. Manager Therrien explained that
there was already $3,000 budgeted for Board travel. The discussion is about
whether to add an additional $5,000. Aldermen Mosteller, Lai, Spencer, and
Kelly were in agreement to increase the total to $8,000. However, Alderman
Davis prefers to keep it at $3,000, while Alderman Carroll would like the total
to be $5,000. 4-2 for $8000.
∙   Increase the Mayor’s Salary to $5,813 ($1200 monthly). Mayor Alt was
excused, and Mayor Pro Tem Kelley led the discussion. Members provided
feedback, with some supporting a salary increase for the Mayor while others
opposed it. After further discussion, it was decided with a 4-2 vote to
increase the Mayor's salary by $1,000 a month.
∙   Manager Therrien announced that the Job Study is $29K too much in the
budget.
∙   Three new firefighter positions will have a net cost of $189,344. Manager
Therrien mentioned that there would be cuts in the fire budget that may or may
not cover the new positions for overtime. She also mentioned that Chief Drew
has applied for grants, which could add another $100,000 to the Fire
Department's budget. These grants would be for one-time only. Alderman Kelley
pointed out that fire fees have reached their limit, requiring approval from
the Legislature for any increase. Mayor Alt suggested that Caswell Beach should
share some costs since they benefit from the city's services. Chief Drew
reported that all surrounding fire districts have also reached the limit on
fire fees. He mentioned a fire deficit of $160,000, attributed to challenges in
volunteer recruitment and reliance on development for fee increases. The Board
agreed to discuss this matter further at the next workshop.
One temporary finance position is needed to backfill for a retiring team
member. The Finance Director emphasized the position's importance and requested
flexibility to begin the hiring process. The $50,000 mentioned is a
placeholder, and it was suggested that the candidate search be initiated around
6 months in advance. However, the position's retirement has not been confirmed,
so the decision was postponed by the unanimous agreement of the Board.
Break for lunch—12:45 p.m. Return—1:45 p.m.
Mayor Alt requested the Board's consensus to move the meeting on May 17, 2024,
to 8:30 A.M. The Board unanimously agreed to reschedule the meeting to 8:30
A.M.
∙   The Debt Service budget is high ($404.4 vs $388.1): ($16,275.) Mr. Flint
explained that currently, the only debt service is for the Fire Department.
After reviewing the debt service schedules and comparing them to the budget, he
found that the budget was slightly high. He mentioned that it has now been
adjusted down to around $16,000. Mayor Alt confirmed that there is now $16,000
more in the budget than previously thought.
∙   Retire Fire Debt using ARPA Funds ($216,151): Mr. Flint said it may make
more sense to keep the money in the bank and earn interest rather than pay off
the debt early. The Board was in agreement to keep the money in the bank.
∙   Streets budget has one too many employees ($73,946): After the water
merger, two employees left to work for the county, leaving six employees to
continue providing services. Another employee decided to join the county as
well, and Mr. Flint thought that a new employee was needed to maintain a full
staff. However, Mr. Stanley informed him that this position was no longer
necessary. Mr. Flint mentioned that the Streets Budget had allocated six
employees, but only five were needed. Mayor Alt noted that with these three
positions no longer in the budget, there would be approximately $230,000
remaining in the FY24-25 budget.
∙   Archive Social Increase 7,300 (Increasing by $1200 a year): The PIO/
Communications Director, Ms. Ketchum, informed the Board that she received a
notification from “Archive Social” informing that they would be raising their
prices. The increase would amount to an additional $1200 compared to the
current rate. She explained that the company has raised prices across the board
due to inflation and increased wages. Ms. Ketchum clarified that this program
is essential for tracking the City’s online presence and is linked to all of
the City’s social media and digital accounts. It archives the media footprint
to ensure compliance with the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA). The Board
unanimously approved the additional $1200 per year.
∙   Rivermist Electrical Payment: Ms. Therrien noted that it was discussed
whether it should be added to the Electrical Fund or the Public Services
Department. She contacted UNC SOG, which said that you could move it back and
forth if there is a sufficient fund balance. She asked the Board how they would
like to proceed. The Board all agreed to keep the payments in the Electrical
Fund.
Proposed Capital List for FY 24-25
Projects:
1.    Design of the City Pier: Manager Therrien said that the bracing on the
City Pier needs repair, and $15,000 is set aside to complete the design and
then come up with a final amount to do the work. The Board was in complete
agreement to approve the funding for the design.
2.    Dredging-Grant Share: $15,625. Manager Therrien said this cost would be
part of the grant share for 2025. She said more money would need to be set
aside for the dredging. The Board was in full agreement to approve.
3.    Design-City Boat Slips $18,000. The Board discussed the issue of
transient slips and decided on the next steps. Ms. Therrien mentioned that the
Rate Committee would present this information at the workshop on May 17th. Ms.
Dutton explained that FEMA had approved funding for the slips, covering most of
the costs. The City would need to bear any additional expenses not covered
($18,000). If the design work is not completed this year, the City will need to
file for another extension. Yay: Alderman Mosteller, Carroll, Kelley, Spencer
and Lai. Nay: Alderman Davis. 5-1 to approve the $18,000.
4.    Land Acquisition for the Parks. Ms. Therrien explained that this is part
of the Master Plan that the Board approved, and this would be a starting fund
that would be set aside and used to acquire land for new parks. Nay: Alderman
Mosteller, Carroll, Davis, Kelley, and Lai. Yay, Alderman Spencer. 5-1 is not
in favor of setting funds aside at this time.
5.    Tennis Court Resurfacing $160,000. The Board unanimously disapproved of
the resurfacing.
6.    City Hall Renovation and Design $300,000. Ms. Therrien mentioned that
this was the price she received from the architect who evaluated City Hall and
the Police Station. She stated that this would entail a complete overhaul of
City Hall, as previously presented to the Board. She also mentioned that some
renovation would be necessary at City Hall but perhaps not as extensive. Mayor
Alt clarified that this cost is only for the design phase and not for
construction. Ms. Therrien confirmed that his understanding was correct. The
Board was unanimously against providing funding for this project.
7.    City Building Repairs – Facilities $200,000 (not including old City
Hall). Ms. Therrien said this must be done immediately to maintain urgent
repairs. The Board requested a complete list of what repairs are needed and to
discuss at the next workshop. The Board unanimously favored having more
discussion at the next workshop when more information is provided.
8.    Old City Hall Environment Issues: $700,000. Estimated by HICAPS. Bids for
abatement are favorable. Ms. Therrien seeks confirmation before budget
adoption. Alderman Kelley proposes new windows and HVAC systems to prevent
further deterioration. Mr. Flint raises asbestos concerns. The Board will seek
additional information from HICAPS before making a decision at the upcoming
Board Workshop.
9.    Parks Building Improvements: The Board unanimously agreed to discuss the
necessary repairs for these buildings at the next board workshop once more
information is provided.
10.    Stormwater Design $75,000. Ms. Therrien reported that the City Engineer,
Tom Zilineck, has a significant amount of state and grant funding that is
nearing expiration because of project deadlines. The $75,000 funding is crucial
for initiating a key project. The Board unanimously approved the funding.
11.    Sidewalk Repairs. Ms. Therrien mentioned that the Board has been
discussing the need for new sidewalks and repairs for quite some time. She
emphasized that the money allocated for the Powell Bill should be used for road
repairs, and therefore, she proposed allocating $100,000 specifically for
sidewalk repairs due to safety concerns. She highlighted that these repairs are
essential to address potential liabilities related to tripping and falling. Ms.
Therrien suggested that the $100,000 be utilized for urgent repairs. The Board
unanimously approved the allocation of $100,000 for the sidewalk repairs.
12.    Community Building Deck. The discussion revolved around whether to
replace the deck of the building, considering its significant revenue
generation. Some members believed that although the deck will eventually need
replacement, the current fiscal year isn't the most suitable time for it. Those
against funding this year were Aldermen Carroll, Davis, Kelly, and Lai. In
favor were Aldermen Mosteller and Spencer. The decision not to allocate funds
this year was 4-2.
13.    Franklin Square Park, $50,000. The Board unanimously agreed to continue
funding and maintaining the park.
Mayor Alt requested to adjourn the meeting as there was no further business.
Alderman Kelley made the motion, seconded by Alderman Lai. Unanimous Vote;
Motion Carried.
Adjourn—2:10 p.m.
______________________
Mayor, Richard Alt
                        ______________________________
                        Deputy Clerk, Tanya Shannon
May 17, 2024
Budget Workshop Minutes
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN Budget Workshop Minutes
May 17, 2024      Community Building, 223 E. Bay St.
SOUTHPORT, N.C.   8:30 A.M.
 
Present:
   Mayor Rich Alt, Alderman Karen Mosteller, Lowe Davis, Robert Carroll, Frank
Lai, Mark Spencer, and Mayor Pro Tem Kelley (remote).
Absent:
   None
Staff:
   Manager Bonnie Therrien, Assistant City Manager Dorothy Dutton, Sara Thomas
Clerk, ChyAnn Ketchum POI/Communications, Public Services Director Tom Stanley,
Fire Chief Charles Drew, and Finance Director Lance Flint.
A.    Mayor Rich Alt called the meeting to order at 8:30 A.M.
B.    Alderman Reverend Davis gave the Invocation.
C.    Mayor Alt led the Pledge of Allegiance.
D.   Approval of the Agenda
Mayor Alt has requested an amendment to the agenda, which includes the
announcement of the selection of the new City Manager. The agenda will also
cover the discussion of the MOU with Up Your Arts and the selection of dates
for the Final Budget Deliberations and the Public Hearing. This motion was made
by Alderman Lai and seconded by Alderman Spencer.
In discussion, Alderman Davis pointed out that the Board has conceptually
accepted the contract for the City Manager, but it has not been formally
approved. She suggested adding an amendment to the agenda for a vote on the
approval of the contract. Motion to approve the supplement to the amended
agenda by Alderman Lai and seconded by Alderman Spencer. Unanimous Vote; Motion
Carried.
Mayor Alt explained that the Board had reviewed the City Manager's contract,
and all members had agreed. Alderman Mosteller formally motioned to approve Mr.
Stuart Turille Jr.'s new City Manager contract as presented, and Alderman Lai
seconded the motion. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried .
Mayor Alt proposed offering the position of City Manager to Stuart Turille Jr.,
starting on July 2, 2024, as specified in the presented contract. His annual
salary will be $150,000. Alderman Mosteller motioned to approve, seconded by
Alderman Carroll. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
E.   Agenda
1.   Rate Committee (D. Dutton)
Ms. Dutton presented an overview of the FY 24-25 Master Fee Schedule, including
the recommended changes from the Rate Committee and Staff. The recommended
changes encompass the use of the Indian Trail Meeting Hall, Public Utilities,
Recycling/Yard Debris Collection, Building Inspections and Permit Fees,
Development Fees, Mobile Food Vendors, Tree Removal Penalty, Residential
Stormwater Plan Review, Commercial Stormwater Plan Review, Use of Taylor Field
Park, Filming Fees, and Golf Cart Permits.   
Alderman Davis expressed concerns about the filming fees and inquired whether
the rates in neighboring towns had been compared. She believed the proposed
rates were too low, considering the inconvenience caused to citizens by road
closures, etc. In response, Ms. Dutton mentioned that there had been a
discussion with the Rate Committee about whether the Board wanted to encourage
filming or not, as this would affect the proposed rates. The discussion
involved weighing the advantages and disadvantages of filming in the city.
Mayor Alt requested a motion to approve the Film Fee Schedule as presented but
to review the Daily Production Fee and decide on that later after consulting
with business owners and others affected by various filming locations and how
it would affect emergency services. So moved by Alderman Davis and seconded by
Alderman Lai. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
Mayor Alt has requested a motion to collaborate with the City Manager to set a
date for discussing the Film Production Fees. This meeting aims to gather input
from business owners and other interested parties regarding the impact of
filming on their businesses. So moved by Alderman Lai and seconded by Alderman
Davis. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
2.   Methods to Close the Budget Gap.
Mr. Flint updated us on the budget gap, which has decreased by $310,000. He
mentioned a budget allocation to cover the remaining $858,000 gap resulting
from the merger. There will be an increase in tax evaluations by the county,
expected to generate an additional $273,000. Additionally, an anomaly in data
transfer for credit card payments for permits led to the discovery of a
$100,000 revenue shortfall. Mr. Flint noted a $45,000 reduction in budgeted
costs for employee medical adjustments. In summary, operating expenses have
been adjusted and approved, resulting in a $310,000 net reduction in the gap.
He discussed the $1.8 million Capital Budget proposal, suggesting a one-cent
tax increase for capital funding and using some general fund surplus. After
removing some projects, the total cost is now estimated at $1.2 million. The
Board still needs to deliberate on three large projects, possibly postponing
some of them.
Alderman Carroll proposed a 2-3 cent tax increase each year for the next three
years to maintain current levels. Alderman Lai agreed, emphasizing the need for
sustainability. Alderman Spencer would prefer the funds remain in the bank to
generate interest and tighten the belt. Mr. Flint advises not to deplete the
capital funds for short-term use.
Chief Drew discussed the challenge the department faces with maintaining
minimum staffing levels. They have been relying on volunteers for shifts and
compensating them with a stipend, which has led to significant shortages in
emergency services. The department has operated below the minimum staffing
level of four firefighters for a total of 176 days out of 517 calendar days,
which is a concerning amount of time given the declining number of volunteers.
Chief Drew highlighted that despite an increase in call volume, staffing levels
have decreased. He emphasized that it is a legal requirement to have four
firefighters present for every structural call, and failure to comply could
result in the suspension of insurance and an increase in the insurance rating.
Maintaining a low insurance rating is crucial for saving taxpayers money.
There was a discussion about increasing the stipend for volunteers since they
do not receive benefits. This would still be more cost-effective than hiring
full-time staff. Currently, volunteers receive $150 for a 12-hour shift as
firefighters, and some are working long hours hoping to secure full-time
positions. Chief Drew revealed that some volunteers are making $60,000 a year
on stipends, which is more than some full-time firefighters earning $40,000 a
year. Mayor Alt expressed the need to find a long-term solution to balance the
costs of full-time staff compared to stipend volunteers.
There was also a discussion on the EMS budget. It was recommended that more
input from the citizens be gathered on whether the City or the County responds
to calls. Additionally, if they would prefer the City EMS to respond, there
would be a tax increase.
3.   MOU with Up Your Arts discussion.
Mayor Alt explained that the initial Memorandum of Understanding with Up Your
Arts was established in 2017. According to the agreement, either party has the
right to terminate it within 60 days. Mayor Alt mentioned that Up Your Arts has
been merged with another organization, and therefore, the agreement is non-
transferable. He explained that this was a procedural decision. He requested a
motion to direct the City Manager to draft a document to terminate the MOU with
Up Your Arts.
Alderman Carroll clarified that the current Memorandum of Understanding (MOU)
requires a 60-day notice. As a result, Alderman Carroll made a Motion to
instruct the City Manager to provide the required written notice at least 60
days prior to termination and to draft the necessary document to terminate the
MOU with Up Your Arts. Second by Alderman Lai. Alderman Kelley had to be
excused and left the meeting before the vote. Aye: Alderman Mosteller, Carroll,
Davis, Spencer, and Lai. Vote count: 5-0. Motion Carried.
4.   Selection of Dates for Budget Deliberations.
After discussions, the Board scheduled a Special Budget Meeting on June 5th and
6th at the Community Building, followed by a Public Hearing on June 17th.
F.   Manager’s Comments:
Mayor Alt requested the City Manager to retrieve the lease agreement with the
Historical Society for the City’s Old City Jail.
Board Comments:
   Alderman Mosteller noted that some time will need to be carved out during
the budget deliberations to ensure the Pay Classification Study.
   Alderman Davis reminded everyone that Memorial Day is on May 27th. The
parade begins at 11:00 AM on Lord St., and the Lowering of the Flag ceremony
starts at 7:00 p.m.
   Since there was no further business, a motion was made by Alderman Carroll
to adjourn and was seconded by Alderman Mosteller. Unanimous Vote; Motion
Carried.
Adjourn—10:25 a.m.
____________________________
   Richard Alt, Mayor
                     _______________________________
                     Tanya Shannon, Deputy Clerk
June 5, 2024
Regular Meeting Minutes
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN Regular Meeting Minutes
June 5. 2024      Community Building, 223 E. Bay St.
SOUTHPORT, N.C.   9:00 A.M.
 
Present:
   Mayor Rich Alt, Mayor Pro Tem Rebecca Kelley, Alderman Karen Mosteller, Lowe
Davis, Robert Carroll, Frank Lai, and Mark Spencer.
Absent:
   None
Staff:
   Manager Bonnie Therrien, Assistant City Manager Dorothy Dutton, ChyAnn
Ketchum POI/Communications, Public Services Director Tom Stanley, City Engineer
Tom Zilinek, Fire Chief Charles Drew, and Finance Director Lance Flint.
A.    Mayor Rich Alt called the meeting to order at 9:00 A.M.
B.    Alderman Reverend Davis gave the Invocation.
C.    Mayor Alt led the Pledge of Allegiance.
D.   Special Recognition
   1. Honor Electrical Superintendent Ellie Pittenger on Retirement (21 Years)
   2. Water/Sewer Staff Recognition: Mark Caban, Justin Taylor and Connor
Davis.
E.   Public Comment
1.   Joe Taylor, from Marcus and Taylor Attorneys in Wilmington, represents
Howard and Denise Russell, who lives at 416 E. Bay Street. He has previously
served on Municipal Boards and has a good understanding of the situation. He
described Kingsley Park as very charming, but he doesn't see it as a
destination amenity but rather more like a neighborhood park. Mr. Taylor
believes that there could be around 25 spaces available to serve the parking
area without the need for additional parking. He would like the Board to take
into consideration the charm and quaintness of the neighborhood.
2.   Sid Fortney, who lives at 413 E. Bay Street, is a neighbor of the
Russell’s. He mentioned that ever since Kingsley Park reopened, there has been
a significant increase in foot traffic compared to parked vehicles. He rarely
sees parked vehicles, and if so, they do not stay parked for long. He believes
the current parking situation is sufficient and the increased foot traffic is
temporary. Sid disagrees with how the situation has been handled and feels that
the Russell’s have been treated unfairly.
3.   John Atkins, of 106 Kingsley Drive, is opposed to allowing parked vehicles
along the side of Bay Street at Kingsley Park. He owns the middle lot, has
surveyed and maintained it, and respectfully asked the Board to consider
preventing parking in this area in order to help preserve the charm of
Southport.
4.   Donna Fullwood, who lives at 807 Cape Harbor Dr., is a member of the Creek
Watchers because she is worried about the environment. She is particularly
concerned about the high levels of bacteria in the creeks and the safety of
children who play in them. She has noticed a decrease in the population of fish
and crabs in the creek and believes that more testing should be done to
identify the cause. She also suggests putting up warning signs to alert people
about potential hazards in the water.
5.   Matt Watson, 402 E. Bay Street, asked if a study has been done on the
effects of replacing the curb on Bay Street with gravel. He believes this
change would greatly benefit the neighborhood.
6.   Lora Sharkey, 432 Cades Trail, congratulated Mr. Pittenger on his
retirement and wished him well. She also encouraged the Board to continue to
work on priorities in the City Budget, needs versus wants. She knows it is a
challenge but doesn’t want them to be held hostage by previous boards.
7.     Ms. Dutton read comments submitted by Nathaniel Lambeth, who resides at
409 E. Bay Street. He expressed concern regarding the proposed parking on the
400 block of E. Bay Street. He noted that the majority of those who visit
Kingsley Park and Pier are waterfront walkers, and very few utilize the parking
spaces on the west side of Kingsley. He pointed out that if overflow parking is
required, there is additional parking available along E. Moore St., in front of
the Smithville Cemetery, and in a paved parking area at Taylor Field Park. He
believes that street parking is unnecessary and could create a traffic hazard.
8.   Gerald Donalson of 5990 Dutchman Creek Rd. Submitted comments that Ms.
Dutton read. He supports the all-inclusive playground, Field of Dreams, at
Taylor Park. However, he is concerned about the lack of shade and protection
from the sun and heat for adults and children during the day. He mentioned that
the park is partly in a flood zone and is close to Bonnet’s Creek, where there
have been high readings of bacteria. He suggested that the park be relocated to
an area that would not impact nearby residential areas, parking, and traffic.
   Alderman Mosteller made a Motion to close Public Comment seconded by
Alderman Spencer. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
F.    Approval of the Agenda
   Mayor Alt requested a Motion to remove Agenda item H 5 Tree Ordinance
Revisions and discuss it at a later meeting. So moved by Alderman Davis and
seconded by Alderman Kelley. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried. 
   Mayor Alt requested that City Engineer Tom Zillenk's Stormwater Discussion
be added to the agenda as new item H:5. A Motion was made to approve the
amended agenda by Alderman Davis and second by Alderman Kelley. Unanimous Vote;
Motion Carried.
G.  Approval of the Consent Agenda
1.   Minutes of the Regular Board of Aldermen Meeting April 11, 2024
2.   Minutes of the Closed Session April 12, 2024 (Sealed Envelope)
3.   Minutes of the Closed Session April 19, 2024 (Sealed Envelope)
4.   Minutes of the Special Budget Workshop April 23, 2024
5.   Minutes of the Special Budget Workshop April 29, 2024
6.   Minutes of the Special Budget Workshop April 30, 2024
7.   Minutes of the Regular Board of Aldermen Meeting May 6, 2024
8.   Minutes of the Regular Board of Aldermen Meeting May 9, 2024
9.   Minutes of the Closed Session May 10, 2024 (Sealed Envelope)
10.   Cancel July 1, 2024, Regular Board of Aldermen Meeting
11.   McPherson Bid for Kayak Launch Construction
   Alderman Spencer motioned to approve the consent agenda, which Alderman
Mosteller seconded. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
H.  Agenda
1.    Creek Watchers--Lab Report Results
   Mayor Alt reported ongoing issues with Price’s, Bonnet’s, and Dutchman
Creeks for three years. Despite contacting the Department of Environment
Quality for help, little assistance has been provided. Monitoring the water
after the completion of the kayak launch is planned. A policy to post and
remove pollution signs will be developed. Ms. Dutton reviewed signage
recommendations, and Ms. Ketchum designed visuals. Collaborative testing and
consistent lab results were emphasized for a unified approach to the issue.   
   Alderman Mosteller asked about a testing method that uses orange dye. Mr.
Stanley explained that the method involves adding dye to the water and then
using visual imaging to detect it. He believes that the contamination is
largely coming from the intercoastal. Readings taken during high tide
consistently showed higher levels of contamination. When asked if the
contaminants were coming from the river, Mr. Stanley mentioned that all sewer
lines had been checked, but the possibility of contamination from inland
sources had not been ruled out. He noted that while it's a long way for
bacteria to travel, animals are in the woods, and their waste ends up in the
same place.
   Alderman Kelley expressed support for some form of signage. Alderman Carroll
asked about the safety of consuming fish and shellfish from the area. Alderman
Mosteller responded that shellfish from the area are not safe to eat. Alderman
Carroll expressed concerns about the lack of marking on the creeks and the
potential health risks for people consuming fish from the area.
   In his closing statement, Mayor Alt acknowledged the frustration of staff
and the creek watchers. He emphasized the need to address the water pollution
issue, despite some being more focused on the wording of signs than the actual
contamination and potential health risks. He said that staff, along with the
City Manager, will draft a policy to help protect and warn citizens of the
risks, which the Board could vote on at a later date.
2.    Bay Street Parking
   Manager Therrien clarified that Bay Street has two distinct issues: the
right-of-way matter, which is not up for discussion, and the need for more
parking. After Kingsley Park and parking were reopened, staff reported
increased traffic, leading to the consideration of additional parking. Manager
Therrien and Tom Zilineck collaborated to assess the impact of adding more
parking. The decision to proceed with this is up to the Board.   
   Alderman Davis pointed out that Kingsley Pier is currently not open for
fishing or crabbing, and if it is to be allowed, there needs to be a discussion
about it due to the increased use it will bring. She mentioned that Parks and
Rec. Master Plan and many discussions highlighted the need for connectivity
between Lowe White, Taylor Field, and Kingsley Parks. Having sufficient parking
at all three locations would allow users to move between them without worrying
about parking. She expressed the need for an engineering plan to address these
issues, along with a parking plan.
   The topic of conversation was whether there is a need for additional parking
in this area at this time. It seems that currently there is no parking problem
at the location. It was suggested that more attention be put on improving the
existing parking at Kingsley Park. Mr. Zilineck mentioned that this could be
done, but more funding would be required to create safe and adequate parking
there. There were some concerns about parking, particularly around the curve at
Kingsley Dr. and Bay Street, which would be an unsafe area to park. Mr.
Zilineck agreed and stated that the concern was a safety issue and that parking
at Kingsley provided better visibility.
   Mayor Alt stated that the property owner at the intersection of Bay and
Kingsley has offered to reinstall the parking posts that define spaces with
gravel and install a sidewalk closest to the river to improve ADA compliance
and accessibility, all at their own expense.
   Alderman Davis suggested deferring the decision until we have all the
necessary information about the pier's usage and the actual number of required
spaces.
   Alderman Carroll motioned to instruct the City Manager to include the
Kingsley Park area in the parking study. Second by Alderman Davis . Unanimous
Vote; Motion Carried.  
3.   Crown Castle Project
   Mr. Larry Ditton, Electrical Superintendent, introduced Mr. Darryl Forster,
representing Crown Castle. They discussed the Municipal Pole Attachment
Agreement, which allows telecommunication infrastructure in the right of ways
(ROWs) with certain aesthetic requirements. The city must coordinate with the
Electric Department to ensure compliance with placement and infrastructure
standards.
   Alderman Kelley noted that August is a very busy time in the City. How much
disruption will this cause to the citizens and tourists? She suggested doing a
winter installation to have less impact on the community. Mr. Forster said that
they would take that into consideration.
   Alderman Mosteller questioned whether the city would be able to provide
input on the pole's aesthetic if the contract was approved. Mr. Forster said
the process is usually driven by the jurisdiction. When applying for the permit
for the fiber component piece and then individual locations, there is an
individual permit for each location. He said, as stated before, one area may
need something different.
   Mayor Alt questioned if this was the same process used for the underground
project. Mr. Ditton said that some of the lines would be conduit and bored,
which is very similar to the underground project that is ongoing now.
   Alderman Kelley asked if Crown Castle could complete the underground cable
installation while they were working on boring. Mr. Ditton explained that they
don't have an agreement to do so. Still, the cable installation will be done in
a way that is similar to the underground electrical project and will not be
intrusive or minimally disruptive to the community. The discussion also touched
on installation timing and locations.
   Alderman Mosteller inquired about the language: “ Discuss whether an
ordinance protecting our undergrounded rights of way and
protecting the City’s established communication network
(s) is needed to move forward with Telecom companies and approve the Crown
Castle PAA as revised (or needs further revision). Ms. Therrien said that the
City Attorney recommended this statement, and she would recommend getting more
details from him.
   Mayor Alt proposed a Motion to allow the City Manager to proceed with the
Contract with Crown Castle PAA. Alderman Carroll moved the motion, which was
seconded by Alderman Lai. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.    
5-minute break 11:00 A.M.
4 .   City Manager Contract Extension
   The Board has asked Ms. Therrien to stay on for another month to help the
new City Manager, Stuart Turille, successfully transition to
working for the City. The additional month would be with the same terms presently in place.
The new proposed agreement would be the rate of pay she would receive if I were
to be called back to work on City projects or must follow
up with any litigation, lawsuits, etc., as determined by the City Manager and City Attorney.
City Attorney Herman has reviewed and approved this document.
   Mayor Alt proposed a Motion to extend Bonnie Therrien's current contract one
month until July 31, 2024, and approve the Assistance Agreement with Bonnie
Therrien to be paid on an as-needed basis for any future project work as
requested by the City Manager or any legal matters where her testimony is
needed and so moved by Alderman Davis and second by Alderman Lai.
   There was a discussion on the amount of time needed and the possibility of
finding an alternative to this overlap.   
   Alderman Davis made a Motion to approve a contract and the Assistance
Agreement for City Manager Therrien's hourly extension at $75 per hour, as
needed. Alderman Spencer seconded the motion. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
5.    Stormwater Discussion
   City Engineer Zilineck reported that he, along with Tom Stanley, Dorrie
Dutton, Mo Meehan, and Kylie Barefoot, have been working on revamping the
stormwater ordinance. He highlighted that the current stormwater regulations
for the city only apply if there is over 10,000 square feet of increased
impervious coverage or one acre of disturbance. The proposed changes would
lower the threshold to 800 square feet of impervious coverage and 2,000 square
feet of disturbance, dividing the requirements into minor or major development
categories. Zilineck also discussed the proposed process for implementing these
changes.   
   Mayor Alt emphasized that this change will be significant as DEQ currently
oversees all regulations. With the introduction of the City's Stormwater
Ordinance, the City will have the capacity to monitor and manage stormwater
more effectively and efficiently. Additionally, Mr. Zilineck mentioned that the
City has the authority to impose stricter regulations than those set by the
State.   
   Alderman Mosteller raised concerns about the Stormwater fees. Mr. Zilinek
explained that they intend to have the Ordinance approved first. After that,
stormwater review fees will assess all development plans. Additionally, fees
will be charged for inspecting detention basins and infiltration systems.
I.   Committee Reports: 
Provided in the Agenda Packets
J.   Manager’s Report: 
   Ms. Therrien mentioned that the police department has noticed an increase in
golf cart injuries. She emphasized that all golf carts must be registered with
a city sticker or DMV plates, and seatbelts are required. Additionally,
operators must be at least 18 years old. It is important to adhere to the rules
of the road, stay in the right lane, and refrain from driving in the opposite
direction of traffic. Ms. Therrien also informed everyone that the Public
Hearing on the budget is scheduled for June 17th. Lastly, she expressed
gratitude to Mr. Brandon Stevens for his service as Deputy Finance Director and
extended her best wishes to him.
K.   Mayor’s Comments:
   Mayor Alt stated that he would be drafting a letter to address the issue of
staff being harassed and criticized by some members of the public because of
the direction from the City Manager or by following policies and procedures. He
asked the public to contact the City Manager or himself directly with concerns.
He mentioned that the board will work on scheduling meeting dates for budget
workshops and discussions with Up Your Arts and the Cemetery Commission.
L.    Board Comments:
   Alderman Davis questioned Chief Coring about golf carts and electric bikes
traveling in the opposite direction on one-way roads. Chief Coring responded
that this is not permitted and that they must adhere to the rules of the road.
   Alderman Spencer praised Mr. Baxter Sterling and honored him as a great
friend of Southport who will be missed. He congratulated Mr. Pittenger on his
retirement and wished him well.
M.   Closed Session:
   Alderman Carroll made a motion to enter into a Closed Session second by
Alderman Kelley. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried. — 11:45 A.M.
   Mayor Alt stated the reason for the Closed Session NCGS 143-318.11 (a)
(3) To consult with an attorney employed or retained by the public body in order to preserve the attorney-
client privilege between the attorney and the public body, which privilege is hereby acknowledged. General policy matters may not be discussed in a closed session, and nothing herein shall be construed to permit a public body to close a meeting that otherwise would be open merely because an attorney employed or retained by the public body is a participant. The public body may consider and give instructions to an attorney concerning the handling or settlement of a claim, judicial action, mediation, arbitration, or administrative procedure. If the public body has approved or considered a settlement, other than a malpractice settlement by or on behalf of a hospital, in closed session, the terms
of that settlement shall be reported to the public body and entered into its minutes as soon as possible
within a reasonable time after the settlement is concluded.
   The Board returned to Open Session.
Adjournment—12:45 P.M.
________________________
   Richard Alt, Mayor
                  ____________________________
                  Deputy Clerk, Tanya Shannon
June 6, 2024
Budget Workshop Minutes
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN Budget Workshop Minutes
June 6. 2024      Community Building, 223 E. Bay St.
SOUTHPORT, N.C.   2:00 P.M.
 
Present:
   Mayor Rich Alt, Mayor Pro Tem Rebecca Kelley, Alderman Karen Mosteller, Lowe
Davis, Robert Carroll, Frank Lai, and Mark Spencer.
Absent:
   None
Staff:
   Manager Bonnie Therrien, Assistant City Manager Dorothy Dutton, ChyAnn
Ketchum POI/Communications, Public Services Director Tom Stanley, Fire Chief
Charles Drew, Finance Director Lance Flint, Parks and Rec. Director Heather
Hemphill and Electrical Superintendent Larry Ditton.
A.    Mayor Rich Alt called the meeting to order at 2:00 P.M.
B.    Alderman Davis gave the Invocation.
C.    Mayor Alt led the Pledge of Allegiance.
D.   Alderman Mosteller made a motion to approve the agenda seconded by
Alderman Kelley. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.  
E.   Agenda
1.   Board Deliberations:
   Manager Therrien provided an overview and update on some revisions following
the last meeting. She mentioned a proposed tax increase but also highlighted
that citizens will realize significant savings from the water/ sewer merger.   
   Ms. Therrien discussed hiring a new full-time position in Community
Relations. Mr. Flint found part-time numbers to be incorrect, adding an extra
$27,000 to the budget. Electricities provided an incorrect number, corrected by
Mr. Ditton, reducing it by a million dollars. Mr. Ditton explained an algorithm
error, revealing a discrepancy in the city's projected payout, potentially
impacting future capital projects.   
   Fire Chief Drew announced that adding new EMS positions will cost $199,739.
After reviewing their transports, they found they had been undercharging and
could potentially increase EMS revenue to $196,000. Chief Drew emphasized that
this increase in revenue is an ongoing benefit based on collection rates.   
   Mayor Alt asked if the number is based on everyone paying or a 50% payment
rate. Chief Drew clarified that it's based on collection rate projections.
Mayor Alt requested information on the actual return from insurance companies
and why they should expect to pay more, even with increased rates. Chief Drew
explained that after discussions last week, aggressive collection efforts are
beginning. With the county increasing rates and collecting more money, the city
can also raise rates and revenue.   
   Alderman Carroll asked about the differences between the old and new fees.
Chief Drew explained that the charge for basic life transport has increased
from $300 to $399.12, the cost of any medication administered has risen from
$400 to $638.58, and specialty transports have increased from $622 to $1297.13.
Additionally, the charge per mile has increased from $10.12 to $13.53. Alderman
Lai noted that this makes it cheaper for patients to have local EMS vs County
EMS. Alderman Mosteller asked whether the projected revenue was based on the
existing infrastructure alone rather than the new positions. Chief Drew
confirmed that it is.   Mayor Alt said that mutual aid with the county isn’t
really mutual aid if the City has to pay for it. Chief Drew said that it is
like having the Police Department but also having the Sheriff's Department
assist if needed. Southport EMS will respond to Southport only and request
assistance if another incident occurs when they cannot respond. Southport would
only be on standby for other units if all units were simultaneously tied up and
all resources deployed.
   Chief Drew mentioned that the average response time for the county to get a
unit into Southport is between 9 and 12 minutes. He emphasized that the
Department continues to provide EMS services because minutes can save lives.
Mayor Alt pointed out that the ETJ pays for fire fees, but this does not cover
EMS services. Mayor Alt suggested creating documents that outline the services
provided, along with the associated costs and revenue.
   Alderman Lai inquired about transport fee collection, which is managed by a
third-party company on behalf of the city. Chief Drew explained that without
funding for three EMS positions, there could be inadequate ambulance coverage,
posing a risk of service interruption. Alderman Kelley suggested hiring
additional medics for the Fire Department and removing the EMS. Still, Chief
Drew expressed concerns about losing revenue from transport fees and emphasized
the importance of the city's faster response time compared to the county.   
   Alderman Davis motioned to approve three additional EMTs in the budget and
the corresponding extra revenues. Chief Drew will cover the $3,000 difference.
Alderman Lai seconded. Aye: Alderman Davis, Lai, Spencer, Carroll, and
Mosteller. Nay: Alderman Kelley. 5-1 Motion Carried.  
   The discussion returned to hiring a new full-time events position in
Community Relations. An error in the algorithm analysis resulted in an extra
$27,000 being added to the budget. Mr. Flint explained that the new position
will now cost an additional $27,000, as per the discussion at yesterday's
meeting, because benefits will also have to be factored in.
   Ms. Therrien explained that there is still $680,000 in available capital
funds for this year that are going to be closed out. She stated that if nothing
is done with these funds, they will go into the general fund and the fund
balance to help reduce the rate. She explained that these are possibilities
unless services are cut.   
   Aldermen Kelly rescinded the motion to hire a full-time event planner for
Community Relations made on June 5th at the Budget Workshop. Instead, she
motioned to eliminate the hire of the full-time employee as the events planner
and reinstate the two part-time staff members for Community Relations. Second
by Alderman Mosteller.
   There was a discussion, and Alderman Davis said she still supports the hire
because then the city will be in control of the money that is made. Alderman
Spencer stated that the city is starting to take control of the 4th of July and
the festivals. He said that it cannot be successful without investing. It might
not make money in the first year. But this is a transitional year. We gave away
our assets that made money to pay the bills, and now we have to make up for the
difference. Alderman Carroll said that he appreciated Marc saying that, but the
assets were already there, and we lost $1.2 million because the value of those
assets was deteriorating, and it wasn’t focused on. He said he feels confident
in the decisions that the Board has improved in that direction. He explained
that the community was ecstatic with the decrease in their utility bills, and a
tax increase would balance out that difference so that the city could continue
to plan and provide services that the community wants. Alderman Kelley said she
is not saying that she doesn’t want to give them a full-time employee; she is
just looking at the budget as a whole, and it doesn’t work. Alderman Mosteller
said she would like this to be a transitional year, not hire a new full-time
employee and keep doing what we have been doing. Alderman Davis stated that it
is now just the Community Building that could be marketed it will be other
events as well that will generate more revenue. Alderman Carrol noted that the
Board needs to make a decision on whether they want to push more events at the
Community Building for profit or compete for spaces for Meetings.
   The Motion was restated: Aldermen Kelly rescinded the motion to hire a full-
time event planner for Community Relations made on June 5th at the Budget
Workshop. Instead, she made a motion to eliminate hiring the full-time employee
as the events planner and to reinstate the two part-time staff members for
Community Relations. Second by Alderman Mosteller. Aye: Alderman Kelley,
Carroll, and Mosteller. Nay: Alderman Davis, Spencer, and Lai. 3-3. Mayor Alt
broke the tie with Nay; 3-4 Motion Denied.
   Alderman Davis raised concerns about the funds being used for vegetation
trimming. Mr. Stanley suggested reallocating some of the funds from the budget
to purchase a $30,000 lift, which would allow the grounds employees to access
the higher vegetation safely. Currently, his department takes care of the low
vegetation on the buildings, but they are unable to reach the higher areas. He
presented the options of either purchasing the equipment or hiring a
professional for the job. It was the consensus that professionals should
maintain the overgrowth of the buildings.
   Alderman Davis questioned the allocation of $75,000 for interior finishes in
the city gym, suggesting it might be better to postpone this expense. Alderman
Carroll emphasized the impact of this capital cost on the budget. Mayor Alt
confirmed that the expense could be reallocated, and Alderman Carroll suggested
using existing funds or making gradual tax rate adjustments to cover the
shortfall.
   Alderman Davis moved to postpone spending $75,000 on the interior
improvements in the city gym until later. Second by Alderman Kelley.
   There was a question regarding whether the $75,000 includes the gym
flooring. Ms. Therrien reviewed the descriptions and photographs provided by
HICAPS for the interior improvements, but it was not clarified if the cost
includes flooring.
   Vote: Aye; Alderman Kelley and Davis. Nay: Alderman Lai, Spencer, Carroll,
and Mosteller. 2-4 Motion Denied.
    Alderman Kelley asked about the $100,000 allocated for sidewalk repair
expenses in relation to other issues. She is worried about the safety of the
sidewalks and questions whether spending $100,000 on repairs is justified. Ms.
Therrien explained that it is a policy decision and highlighted that there have
been numerous complaints about people tripping and falling on the sidewalks.
There was a discussion about the need to allocate funds for sidewalk repairs,
and no motion was made to remove the funds.
   Alderman Carroll stressed the importance of spreading out the use of the
$1.2 million over time rather than spending it all in one year. He also
highlighted the need to address the funding gap not only for the first year but
also for the second and third years, with the goal of fully covering the gap by
the fourth year. Additionally, he raised questions about whether the funds
should come from the general fund or if taxes should be increased, considering
inflation and other factors.
   Mayor Alt clarified that the $1.2 million does not need to be replaced this
year, but $400,000 will need to be. He suggested that this could be done
gradually. Alderman Carroll explained that this would leave a $505,000 deficit,
and then the question arose as to where the additional funds would come from.
There was talk about finding a middle ground by drawing from the general fund
and implementing a tax increase. Mr. Flint estimated that this would equate to
roughly a 3.5-cent increase. There was a discussion about whether this would be
a transitional year and a restructuring for a long-term solution.
   —10-minute break
   Mr. Flint explained a few scenarios on how to fill the gap. The first
scenario proposes taking $400,000 from the water/sewer fund and $250,000 from
the general fund, along with a 4-cent tax increase. The aim is to use this
funding to support the fire department and cover capital expenses.
Additionally, there is a plan to address a shortfall by introducing a four-cent
tax focused on bridging the remaining financial gap. It has been noted that the
general fund is currently unstable, and this plan aims to gradually reduce its
reliance by $500,000. Another proposal suggests taking half of the $400,000
from the water/sewer fund each year, spreading it out over six years, and
gradually reducing the reliance by $50,000 per year. This alternative approach
would require a 6-cent tax increase but would help moderate future tax
adjustments.
   Alderman Davis moved to adopt scenario one, which would take $400,000 from
the water/sewer fund and $250,000 from the general fund, along with a 4-cent
tax increase. There was no second, so the motion failed.
   Alderman Carroll made a motion to adopt the alternate solution, taking half
of the $400,000 from the water/sewer fund each year, spreading it out over six
years, and gradually reducing the reliance by $50,000 per year. This
alternative approach would require an approximate 6.13-cent tax increase but
would help moderate future tax adjustments, and second by Alderman Mosteller.
   Alderman Kelley opposes increasing taxes through this process and believes
there are alternative ways to cut the budget.
   Yea: Alderman Mosteller, Carroll, Spencer, and Lai. Nay: Alderman Kelley and
Davis. 4-2 Motion Carried.
   Alderman Carroll made a motion to accept the Electrical Fund recommendations
into the Budget to be presented at the Public Hearing, Second Aldermen
Kelley. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
   Mayor Alt requested a motion to accept the Powell Bill. Alderman Mosteller
moved it, and Alderman Carroll seconded it. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.  
   There was no further business or discussion.
   Alderman Kelley made a Motion to adjourn Alderman Carroll and second.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
Adjourn 4:33 p.m.
____________________________
   Mayor, Richard Alt
                     ______________________________
                     Deputy Clerk, Tanya Shannon
June 13, 2024
Regular Meeting Minutes
BOARD OF ALDERMEN
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES COMMUNITY BUILDING JUNE 13, 2024
PRESENT:
Mayor Alt, Mayor Pro-tern Kelley Aldermen Mosteller, Davis, Carroll, Lai, and
Spencer
ABSENT:
None
STAFF PRESENT:
Bonnie Therrien, City Manager   Dorothy Dutton, Asst City Manager/City Clerk Mo
Meehan, City Planner     Heather Hemphill, Parks and Rec Director Allayna Dail,
Interim Comm. Relations Director Todd Coring, Police Chief
Lance Flint, Finance Director   ChyAnn Ketchum, Public Information Officer
OTHERS PRESENT:
Sue Hodgin            Jake Petrosky, Stewart Consulting
Judith Jeffries         Susan Diertere
Peggy Popelars         Becky Bowles
Janine Browning          Elaine McBride
Pam Rainey            Keren Boyan
Jeanne Brown-Busch       Sue Hodgin
Linda Pukenas         Caroline Hankins
Many other citizens and interested parties.
A.)   Call to Order
Mayor Alt called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B.)   Invocation
Alderman Lowe Davis announced that Cary Evans, the new pastor at Southport
Presbyterian Church, would be providing the invocation.
C.)   Pledge of Allegiance
Mayor Alt led everyone in reciting the Pledge of Allegiance.
D.)   Special Recognition
Mayor Alt announced that the South Brunswick High School was unable to attend
the meeting, so that proclamation would be scheduled for another meeting.
Police Chief Coring announced that Eric Mahoney was selected as Officer of the
Year. Eric is an officer on the night shift. He was honored at a luncheon
earlier in the month. He was chosen by his peers for his dedication and service
to the City of Southport.
Mayor Alt read the Ethics Statement.
Alderman Mosteller stated that she would like to recuse herself from the
consideration of applicants for the Parks and Recreation Committee because her
partner is an applicant.
E.)   Public Comment
Judith Jeffries, the resident at 1409 S. Shore Drive, said she thinks that the
inclusive playground is important to the City and County. The facility should
be funded by the County and have reasonable parking. Shade is necessary. She
was also concerned about the location of the part and the dog park. Excited
dogs and children do not mix well.
Susan Diertere, a resident at 1453 S. Shore Drive, said that children with
disabilities can be unpredictable and dogs are often unpredictable. She asks
the Board truly and respectfully, to consider relocating the park; the children
deserve better.
Peggy Popelars, representing Downtown Southport Inc., said she was speaking on
behalf of the organization. Frank Popelars passed some information out to the
Board. She said that DSI and the City have had a good relationship since 2007.
She reviewed the monetary contributions that have been made to projects in the
City. Since September 2023, they have noticed a shift in attitude towards the
organization. Members of DSI were criticized publicly at Board meetings, on
social media, and some even received mean voicemails. They have complied with
requests to release their financial statements. In December 2023, Franklin
Square Park was closed because of heightened concern for the trees and public
safety. As a result, DSI stated they would be suspending all activities for a
year. They were not able to find another location to host the summer markets,
and the members of DSI needed a reprieve from the negativity. They would like
the City and the public to remember what DSI has accomplished all these past
seventeen (17) years.
Becky Bowles, a resident of W. St. George Street, said that she is requesting
that Taylor Field remain a field. If the playground is truly for all of
Brunswick County, why is it being located in a small town with little parking?
Janine Browning, resident of E. 8th Street, also wanted to speak about the
proposed playground. She said there are better places to put the playground,
but she does support one being built. She said it would be nice to have a
softball or kickball field, and it might attract younger families.
Elaine McBride, who resides just two blocks from Taylor Field, said that she
wanted to protect the open space because there is not a lot of it in town. When
families want to go play ball, they have a place to go. The facility is already
lovely, and the trail is great to work out on. She added that plenty of people
use the park the way it is, and she thinks the playground will detract from the
peace of the park.
Pam Rainey, resident at 301 N. Atlantic Avenue, stated that she has lived here
for twenty years. She has an active golden retriever, and they love going to
the dog park. It is interesting to see how the park is being used-very
organically. That demonstrates the value of having the park. She suggested that
the deed restrictions be considered when making a decision about the
playground.
Keren Boyan, a resident at 310 N. Atlantic Avenue, said the playground was a
great idea but the wrong location. The County has the space, but no funding.
What if the public wrote grant applications to help fund the park with the
County? She said that a late afternoon or evening workshop is requested. The
original plan for Taylor Field was trails, picnic shelter, restrooms, open
space and the dog park. There was no consideration for the topography of the
park, it can reach up to 115 degrees in the center of the park, when the
temperature is (88) degrees. She added that Lowe White or Caviness Park would
be a better location.
Jeanne Brown-Busch, a resident on Burrington Avenue, stated the same sentiment,
that the inclusive playground should be built in the County, not in the City of
Southport.
Sue Hodgin, resident of 608 Cottage Point Way, made the following comments
which were requested to be included verbatim:
I come to you tonight to as a Citizen of Southport, not as a member of any
Club, Association or Board with which I may be affiliated.
I want to address our City administration and my fellow citizens of Southport
regarding House Bill I 064 that was introduced in early May, and successfully
cleared the House floor and made its way to the Senate on June 11th. This bill
came about as the result of ONE citizen's complaint to his legislator about his
property rights, and fines that were imposed for clearing lots - cutting trees
- without obtaining a Tree Permit.
Now let's be clear-- Tree Permits have been in place and required for both in-
City and ETJ home construction since Southport's Tree Ordinance first went into
effect in 2018, right thru its most recent updates in 2022. Area builders are
NOT unaware of pertinent ordinances and the availability of City Staff to guide
them and property owners through longstanding requirements.
In a recent Southport meeting, I heard a resident ask a City employee if any
applicant had ever been denied a Tree Permit, and the answer was 'no'. Staff
stated that the Permit's intent is not to keep someone from cutting trees for
home-construction, but so that the City can work with the applicant to maximize
the good that comes from our Tree Ordinance. So, it appears that this owner/
builder simply decided to turn away from requirements to which the rest of us
are held and - having never talked with City Staff - then complained to his
legislator-friends when accountability came a-calling.
It's been determined, I hear, that one of the fines issued was an
administrative error, with clearing done some time ago. Rightly or wrongly
done, it was done; there were no fresh cuts or evidence of recent clearing. So
that fine was voided. There still remains a fine, which is now being appealed
through established processes.
Now.... getting back to the legislation ... I am bothered that there have been
no updates, no City transparency to the citizens regarding it after its
introduction - we only got a statement that 'we're hoping for good results'.
We've had some in leadership say they have legislators on speed-dial, that they
could get to them immediately: where were those speed-dials when all this moved
down the tracks? City residents should've gotten more information to encourage
full understanding and involvement.
If you haven't been involved in legislative matters before -- or in NC most
specifically -- then you may not understand that by the time a bill reaches a
committee agenda, concerted effort has already been made for the peifunctory
execution of a vote. The House's Local Government Committee meeting that was
held on June 11th was no different. lfyou weren't in the room or attending
virtually (as !was), you don't get to go back and view it; Committee meetings
for our General Assembly are only livestreamed, not recorded. There were a
couple Committee members who questioned whether the General Assembly should be
getting in the business of a municipality; that, I contend, IS government
overreach. The Committee Chair allowed a tit-for-tat exchange between our mayor
and County Commissioner Pat Sykes. She was supportive of this legislation,
though the majority of our County Commissioners had earlier rethought and
rescinded their initial support, urging instead much-warranted discussion; you
didn't hear that from Ms. Sykes this week in Raleigh -- she sounded as if she
were speaking for them all (and perhaps, in all truthfulness, she was).
(Corrected info post-comment: the Commissioners, after additional discussion,
took a 3-2 vote to SUPPORT legislation to eliminate ETJs throughout Brunswick
County.)
There were incorrect and exaggerated statements made by Commissioner Sykes
regarding her neighborhood's 'taxation and regulation without representation'.
It was quite strong a statement for conservative-minded legislators to hear,
even though it had misleading nomenclature. True, the ETJ residents do not vote
for our elected officials - by their choice. That choice also evades any
obligation to City taxes, while they do in fact benefit just like in-city
dwellers from the city to which they are adjacent. Enjoying its local
restaurants, shopping, streets for riding/walking, events and other available
services should not be taken lightly or discounted when inconvenient, or when a
brushup occurs.
It is also very true (but was not brought out by Ms. Sykes) that several of our
boards and committees here in Southport DO have ETJ representation. On the
Planning Board, we have 3 ETJ seats... at least for right now. And I want to
state too that WE depend on the involvement, insight, and togetherness that our
ETJ members bring. On the Planning Board - as I'm sure is the same on the other
boards and committees here in town -- we consider our ETJ members part of US -
- part of our city. Obviously, a large number of the ETJ residents considered
themselves otherwise as Rep. Miller and Ms. Sykes were successfully delivered a
petition that (as Rep Miller stated) 'got 301 signatures' in support of
removing any and all oversight or PROTECTION of the ETJ by Southport.
Ms. Sykes referred to clearing of property behind her own home for a
development - 'hardly a tree's been left standing', she said. She conveniently
neglected to mention that the development to which she referred was approved
BEFORE the adoption of Southport' s Tree Ordinance.
The benefit of the ETJ is that from a planning and land use perspective, we can
have one vision for the Southport area -- cohesiveness of planning,
cohesiveness of the built environment. Southport is going through a Comp Plan
revision right now, and the ETJ has not been left out of that visioning.
Brunswick County just did one, and there was ZERO vision for Southport's ETJ in
it ... there will be no plan to follow.
I believe that 1064 came about as a plan with an overall larger overall
purpose, conveniently camped onto an issue for ONE individual. And I don't
believe that the majority of ETJ residents understand the ramifications of the
action forwarded in 1064.
Here inside our City limits, we have encapsulated properties that are actually
zoned ETJ, inside our City limits -- those could be drastically changed with
this legislation. Think about the changes that could potentially take place
just between Dosher Hospital and Famous Subs. As well, the larger ETJ area
outside our City limits will become empowered -- if this bill passes the Senate
and becomes law -- to be developed by County standards. With no Tree Ordinance,
no protections in place, the no- holds barred Wild Wild West could come to the
ETJ.
I have attended several Brunswick County Planning Board meetings and also heard
one County Commissioner say his 'two main drives are tourism and development'.
I have watched County Administration say 'yes' to almost every development -
from 50 to 7,000 proposed units -- with zero tree protection in place. Already,
County agricultural and forestry ordinance allows burn-off and timbering; and
after those activities, any owner's next 'natural' occurrence is a sell-off to
a developer.
Now I will say that after public outcry and the County's lightbulb finally
coming on that trees and open space are a necessity for our health, well-being
and resiliency against environmental forces, it drafted a Tree Ordinance and
requested its approval during this Session of the General Assembly, as it's
required to do - only to have the request slow-walked and left in the dust of
the General Assembly's crossover deadlines. Does that tell everyone the
likelihood of this General Assembly, this County being ready for the poweiful
sway ( and contributions!) of developers, home builders and rolling on down to
investors??
I wrote my own letter to both Representative Miller and Senator Rabon in late
May. I hope you all did too. A Facebook activist group is still urging everyone
to contact Representative Charlie Miller. There is no further need for that.
1064 has now made it to the Senate floor and passed its first reading already.
It now resides with the Senate Rules Committee, chaired by our own Senator Bill
Rabon. You can email him at bill.rabon@ncleg.gov or call him at 919-733-5963.
In closing, I'd say that when politicians- from either a State, County OR our
own Local level show themselves okay with putting the needs of one (or a few)
over the needs of the whole, let them. When they become okay with showing you
who they really are, rather than what you perceive them to be, let them...then
learn from their actions. It was Winston Churchill who said, 'I no longer
listen to what people SAY, I just watch what they DO. Behavior never lies.'
Thank you.
Linda Pukenas, resident owner of 119 N. Lord Street, said that she loved
hearing Ms. Hodgin' s comments. She appreciates everyone who is sitting at the
table and understands that it is not an easy task. She believes the playground
should go with the County but does appreciate all of Heather Hemphill's work.
We should not develop a strategic plan and then change it every time there is a
new Board. She said that over the past six months she has felt a cloud over
Southport. We all volunteer because we love Southport, and we are all blessed
to be here. We need to value our volunteers and community.
Carolyn Hankins, a resident of Old Baker Avenue, said she was present to
express her opposition to rezoning the property on NC87. She said that people
are always in a rush to go nowhere. The rezoning concerns her because she is
afraid larger businesses will move into that area, too. She asked the Board for
their consideration.
After a motion by Alderman Davis, and seconded by Mayor Pro tem Kelley, the
Public Comment period was closed at 6:58 p.m.
F.)   Approval of Agenda
Alderman Davis made a motion to postpone the playground discussion to another
meeting later in the month. Alderman Mosteller seconded. Aldermen Lai, Spencer,
Davis, Carroll, and Mosteller voted ayes. Mayor Pro-tem Kelley voted nay.
Motion carried 5-1.
Mayor Alt said there would be a five-minute break. The meeting was called back
to order at 7:06p.m.
G.)   Agenda
   1.   The first item was an update on the comprehensive plan. City Planner Mo
Meehan introduced Jake Petrosky with Stewart Consulting. Mr. Petrosky said that
they have been focusing on updating the timeline and public engagement portions
of the project. The consultants will work on analyzing the recommendations
later in the summer, and then there will be another round of public engagement.
The comp plan aims to guide and provide a vision for Southport for the next 10-
20 years. It functions as the City Plan and while it won't automatically update
the existing regulations, it should help shape all of the UDO updates and map
amendments. This comp plan also meets the CAMA requirements for coastal
communities. So far, there have been main themes identified: affordability,
parking, walkability, growth management, environmental concerns, historic
preservation, and downtown/yacht basin improvements. There have been 411
surveys completed so far, but the City is underrepresented in the younger
demographic. There was some discussion about where the survey is located, and
how to get some younger people engaged. Alderman Spencer added that families
give us more stability in our job markets. Even some people who grew up here
can't afford to stay because there are no jobs. Alderman Kelley said she was
glad to see that the studies that have already been done, are being used for
this project. Mayor Alt mentioned different housing options and the City's plan
to start enforcing our own stormwater. Alderman Kelley also said that there are
a lot of kids in Southport. Alderman Lai said that Southport is an aging
community. Younger families will not be able to find a place to live.
   2.   Finance Director Lance Flint explained the next item was a Resolution
in Support of Installment Financing. The purchase was already approved by the
Board. Staff requested financing options from eight (8) different companies and
received only three back. Staff, along with our Bond counsel structured the
financing so that the first payment will be due in July 2025, and then there
will be payments every six (6) months. We can also prepay without penalty.
Alderman Carroll made a motion to approve the Resolution in Support of
Installment Financing as presented. Alderman Lai seconded. All ayes. Motion
carried.
   3.   Mayor Alt opened the Public hearing at 7:58 p.m. after a motion by
Alderman Spencer and seconded by Mayor Pro-tern Kelley. City Planner Mo Meehan
explained that the public hearing was for the proposed text amendment to
setback exceptions. This text amendment was sponsored by an applicant and after
the first public hearing, it was sent back to the Planning Board for more
changes. Alderman Carroll said he recommends the Board votes on this tonight
and stops kicking it down the road. Alderman Davis suggested that perhaps the
public doesn't understand what the text amendment would allow. Alderman
Mosteller said that the existing ordinance allows more encroachments that the
proposed language. Mayor Pro tern Kelley made a motion to close the public
hearing. Alderman Carroll seconded the motion. City Planner Mo Meehan agreed
that this ordinance is more restrictive. Mayor Pro-tern Mosteller stated that
the Board has heard this several times before, and no one has come to speak at
the public hearing. Alderman Mosteller made a motion to approve the Land Use
Consistency Statement and proposed Ordinance, as presented. Alderman Spencer
seconded it. All ayes except for Alderman Davis. Motion carried.
   4.   City Planner Mo Meehan explained the next item was the consideration of
a Planned Unit Development, Turtle Bay on NC Hwy 87. The property is a 54-acre
tract that is currently split zoned Highway Commercial and R-20. The proposed
density is 1.8 units per acre and meets the density and open space
requirements. There is also a proposed multi-use path. Mayor Pro-tern Kelley
asked if the PUD was going to be a gated community, and Ms. Meehan said it was.
She also explained that while buffers are not required because it abuts
residential properties, but the developers are planning on a 25-foot periphery
boundary. There were concerns about Old Baker Road, which is a graveled
prescriptive easement. Those that live on that road, have the legal right to
access the road in perpetuity. The developers plan to leave forty (40) feet
between the lots and the road. They will landscape and plant additional trees.
   Alderman Davis asked about the proposed entrances on NC 87. She said it was
a busy area and it will only get worse. She asked if the developers considered
using Sandy Lane instead. Jackson Starling said they considered traffic flow
from the inside and outside. They hired Davenport Lawrence to do the traffic
study. There will be a center tum lane and a right turn lane, so it doesn't
interfere with moving traffic. The second entrance/exit was mandated by
emergency services and will have a siren-operated gate. Also, there would be
substantial impacts to the wetlands if they used Sandy Lane.
   Alderman Mosteller said that the proposed PUD has less than 2 units an acre.
They are asking for a downzoning from HC to PUD. This will only help the
traffic situation, and there are 10.5 acres of open space in addition to the
wetlands. Alderman Mosteller made a motion to approve the proposed map
amendment from HCIR-20 to PUD along with the Master Plan and the Land Use
Consistency Statement as included in the Board packet. Mayor Pro-tem Kelley
seconded. Several Board members agreed that this was the lesser of the two
evils between Highway commercial development and residential. Mayor Pro-tem
Kelley, Aldermen Lai, Spencer, Mosteller all voted aye. Alderman Davis and
Carroll voted no. Motion carried.
   5.   City Planner Mo Meehan explained the next item was an annexation
request for the same 54.09-acre parcel known as Turtle Bay.Alderman Spencer
made a motion to approve the annexation request and ordinance as presented.
Alderman Mosteller seconded. All ayes. Motion carried.
   6.   Assistant City Manager Dorrie Dutton, and City Planner Mo Meehan
reviewed the proposed UDO amendments that were requested by the Board of
Aldermen. The Staff recommendation was to wait until the Comprehensive plan was
complete. Mayor Alt said that he wanted to form an ad hoc committee to focus on
the amendments and bring them back to the full Board at a later time. Alderman
Carroll made a motion to approve the creation of an ad hoc committee and
Alderman Mosteller seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.
   7.   City Planner Mo Meehan, and Assistant City Manager Dorrie Dutton
described the two sections of the UDO that need to be updated after the Code of
Ordinance Amendment for the Right of Way. Alderman Mosteller made a motion to
forward the proposed amendments to the Planning Board for Consideration.
Alderman Carroll seconded. All ayes. Motion carried.
   8.   Assistant City Manager Dorrie Dutton explained that she was not going
to go through the whole alleyway presentation again but summarized the
information. She said that the Staff recommendation was to allow people to use
the alleyways, but not for any permanent structures-only for access, or
landscaping. The City would retain ownership and be able to access the alleys
as needed. There was discussion about requiring surveys from property owners
who wish to open the alleyway. Alderman Carroll made a motion to approve
Staff's recommendation to allow the public to use the alleyways adjacent to
their properties, with the caveat that they Use 57 stone and 4 x 4 wooden
borders, not to exceed two inches above the plane and a survey must be provided
at the time of application. Alderman Mosteller seconded the motion. All ayes.
Motion carried.
   9.   Alderman Davis made a motion that each Board/Committee appointment be
done separately for each individual. Mayor Pro-tem Kelley seconded. All ayes.
Motion carried.  Alderman Lai reviewed the applications for the Planning Board.
He said that the interview committee was unanimous in their recommendation.
Alderman Lai made a motion that Fred Fiss be reappointed to the Planning Board,
Chris Jones will become a full ETJ member, and Scott Jones would be the ETJ
alternate. Alderman Mosteller seconded. All ayes.
   Alderman Mosteller said that three applicants were interviewed for the
Forestry Committee. She thanked all the applicants, and made the motion to
appoint Ms. Roxie Smith, Mr. Gerald Donaldson, and Mr. Mark Gooding. Mayor Pro-
tem Kelley seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.
   Alderman Mosteller thanked all the applicants for the Beautification
Committee. She made a motion to appoint the individuals recommended by the
interview committee: Lawrence Ashley, Karen Brennan, Joe Fikentscher, and a new
member Ms. Lora McHattie. Alderman Lai seconded. All ayes. Motion carried.
   Alderman Davis said that she serves as the liaison to the Parks and
Recreation Committee. The interview committee was unanimous on two returning
applicants Stephanie Jackson and Emma Thomas. Alderman Carroll seconded. All
ayes. Motion carried. Alderman Davis said that the third board position had two
recommendations. Keren Boyan and Vickie Potter were the two applicants
considered. Ms. Boyan was the only one who could answer all of the questions.
Alderman Davis made a motion to appoint Keren Boyan. Alderman Carroll seconded.
All ayes except for Alderman Spencer. Motion carried.
   Alderman Carroll stated that the Historic Preservation Commission had two
vacancies. He made a motion to reappoint Bonner Herring and Joann Wesson. Mayor
Pro-tem Kelely seconded. All ayes. Motion carried.
   Alderman Spencer said that the Cemetery Committee is made up of many
individuals who represent other Boards and Committees. There were two vacancies
on the Committee. Mr. Miller has a lot of local knowledge, owns a funeral home
and knows many regulations and policies pertaining to maintaining a cemetery.
Alderman Spencer made the recommendation to appoint Mr. David Miller to the
Cemetery Committee. Mayor Pro-tem Kelley seconded. Alderman Mosteller mentioned
Tom Lombardi and said she had hoped the Board would honor his years of service.
Mayor Alt asked if it was fair to say that David Miller has contacts in funeral
business and could make recommendations for best practices? Attorney Herman
added that it would probably be a benefit to have his expertise. All ayes
except for Alderman Mosteller. Motion carried.
   11.   Alderman Spencer said that he had met with the Cemetery Committee a
week ago and they were looking for more direction about what their focus should
be. Alderman Mosteller said the committee was formed to protect and maintain
the historic character, seasonal flowers, citizen engagement, a review and
recommendation of ordinances, grounds maintenance items, identify potential
funding, and to work with other City committees to achieve goals. Alderman
Spencer said he would have them review the ordinances.
   12.   Bonnie Therrien said that her contract ends at the end of June, so the
Board has to really get moving on the search for a replacement. The Board asked
Ms. Therrien to help by advertising along the east coast, and with ICMA. There
would be a panel of staff for the interview, an outside panel made up of
retired City Managers, and then the Board of Aldermen. Alderman Mosteller said
that it sounded like Ms. Therrien had a good handle on what we need to move
forward, and she wants to empower her to move forward, as she made a motion.
Mayor Pro-fem Kelley seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.
H.)   Mayor Alt reminded the Board that the Committee/Board reports are
included in the packet.
I.)   Manager's Report
   Assistant City Manager Dorrie Dutton read some information regarding public
utilities and customer billing. She also read through a list of employee
anniversaries.
J.   Mayor's Comments
   Mayor Alt just stated that they had gotten through a lot of business that
evening.
K.)   Board Comments
There were no Board comments from Alderman Mosteller or Alderman Carroll.
Alderman Davis suggested a lot of Public Relations outreach about the utility
billing. Mayor Pro-tern Mosteller suggested that anyone who missed the Public
Comment period, they go back and watch Sue Hodgin' s comments. She said that
the legislation can be extremely detrimental to the City and to the residents
of the ETJ. Alderman Spencer mentioned that short-term vacation rentals would
now be allowed in the ETJ. He said the legislation was doomed from the
beginning, but Mayor Alt did a great job of trying to prevent the legislation's
approval. Alderman Lai agreed that it would be wise to pay attention to what
Ms. Hodgin said. Alderman Carroll asked Ms. Hodgin to send her comments to the
Clerk so they can be included in the minutes. Alderman Davis added that the
Board has not been sitting on their hands, they have had many Closed Session
meetings, and the Mayor has met with the County Commissioners.
L.)   Closed Session
Mayor Alt said he would accept a motion to go into Closed Session per NCGS 143-
318.ll(a)(3). Mayor Pro- fem Kelley made the motion, which was seconded by
Alderman Carroll. The Board moved into Closed Session at 9:30 p.m. All ayes.
M.)   
A motion was made by Mayor Pro-tern Mosteller to come out of Closed Session,
which was seconded by Alderman Lai. The Closed Session was closed at 10:15 p.m.
All ayes. Motion carried.
The Regular meeting was resumed. Alderman Mosteller made a motion to adjourn
the Regular Board meeting at 10:16 p.m. The motion was seconded by Alderman
Spencer. All ayes. Motion carried.
                              ____________________________
                              Richard Alt, Mayor
                              City of Southport
____________________________
Noah Saldo, City Clerk
June 17, 2024
Budget Public Hearing Minutes
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN Budget Public Hearing
June 17, 2024     Community Building, 223 E. Bay St.
SOUTHPORT, N.C.   6:00 P.M.
 
Present:
Mayor Rich Alt, Mayor Pro Tern Rebecca Kelley, Alderman Karen Mosteller, Lowe
Davis, Robert Carroll, Frank Lai, and Mark Spencer.
Absent:
   None
Staff:
Manager Bonnie Therrien, Assistant City Manager Dorothy Dutton, ChyAnn Ketchum
POI/Communications, Public Services Director Tom Stanley, Fire Chief Charles
Drew, Police ChiefTodd Coring, Finance Director Lance Flint, Planning Director
Mo Meehan, and Parks and Rec. Director Heather Hemphill.
A.   Mayor Rich Alt called the meeting to order at 6:00 P.M.
B.   Alderman Davis gave the Invocation.
C.   Mayor Alt led the Pledge of Allegiance.
D.   Approval of Agenda
   Alderman Kelley made a Motion to approve the Agenda and second by Alderman
Lai.
   Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
E.   Agenda
   1.   Utility Merger and Contract with Brunswick County
      Manager Therrien gave a brief overview. In summary, all of our Water/
Sewer assets, including the
      $8.2 million Fund Balance, will be turned over to the County in July. For
any remaining capital projects, the City will go to the bid stage and
advertise, and then the County will award the projects and take ownership of
finishing the work. The Local Government Commission did approve of the County
taking over our State grants and loans, and the State has also agreed to this.
      Motion to approve the Contract Agreement with Brunswick County for the
merger of the Water and Sewer Division with the County was made by Alderman
Davis and second by Alderman Carroll. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
   2.   Setting a Date to Adopt the FY 2024-2025 Budget.
      The Board unanimously decided to set the date for adopting the FY 24-25
Budget on June 26th at 6:00 p.m. at the Community Building.
   3.   Proposed FY 2024-2025 Budget
      Manager Therrien reviewed the proposed budget and explained that the
current tax rate is 0.275 per $100. The proposed budget includes an increase of
6.1 cents in the tax rate, with 1 cent allocated towards capital, 1.3 cents for
hiring 3 additional firefighters, and the remaining 3.8 cents used to partially
offset the $1.2 million water/sewer gap. Although taxes will increase by 6.1
cents, it's important to note that with the Water/Sewer Merger, water and sewer
rates have decreased by an average of $775 per year. This means that taxpayers
will still save money with a 6.1 cent tax increase. Manager Therrien mentioned
that the rates are higher due to the need to pay for all capital projects
ourselves. She also emphasized that the Board has always been aware of the
existence of a gap but believes that the benefits outweigh the gap: It was also
highlighted that if the merger doesn't occur, rates will go back up. Ms.
Therrien thanked Mr. Flint, Ms. Dutton, and all the Department Heads for their
hard work in preparing the budget.
F.   Public Hearing
   Mayor Alt called the hearing to order.
   1.   Ms. Sue Hodgin expressed gratitude for the opportunity to listen to the
details and commended the city staff for their exceptional efforts. She
emphasized the need for financial resources to sustain the city's operations
and stressed the importance of supporting the proposed budget. She also
highlighted the significant contribution of volunteers and suggested
collaborating with OSI at a roundtable discussion to address Southport's needs
collectively. She noted the Mayor expressed interest in creating a full-time
Community Relations position and urged elected officials to consider their
stipends. She also criticized negative comments on social media about staff
benefits and recommended allocating dedicated resources for a nonprofit to
preserve a building and revitalize the partnership with nonprofits.
   2.   Mr. Devon Varnam from Southport Baptist Church has mentioned that fire
inspections, which used to happen every three years, are now taking place
annually. The church is being charged an operational fee of $1,958. Every
church in Southport falls under the city's fire department, and they feel
burdened by excessive fees to support the city's citizens. They believe that if
the church were located outside the city limits, they would have to pay fewer
fees. The churches in Southport are finding it difficult to afford these
additional expenses and are struggling to fulfill their mission. Despite this,
they continue to serve the public and urge the city to collaborate with them as
they work to support the city and its people.
   3.   Mr. Paul Gross clarified that his statements are personal and do not
represent his former employees. He raised concerns about the impact of certain
increases and the effect it will have on vulnerable employees, the need to
review fund balance policy, and the responsibility for providing emergency
services. He also questioned the use of Southport taxpayer money to compete
with private-sector EV charging stations and boat slips, mentioned a $1Ok
donation to the elementary school, and proposed reducing the recommended COLA
from 3.5% to 3.3%. Additionally, he highlighted the need for clarity in the
police budget regarding vehicle supplies. He raised concerns about the city's
neglected infrastructure, suggesting a bond might be necessary in the future.
He acknowledged that the Aldermen have difficult decisions to make.
   4.   Mr. Mike Fawkes, the Chair of the Building and Grounds Department at
Southport Baptist Church, was shocked at the amount of the fire inspection fees
when he received the bill. He contacted the Fire Chief to seek an explanation
and explain the situation. He mentioned that the Church does not have $2,000 in
its budget to cover this increase in fees. He pointed out that collections have
already called twice for payment. He expressed his disappointment that these
financial burdens have to fall onthe churches that provide many services to the
citizens and the most vulnerable. He also noted that surrounding municipalities
do not charge fire inspection fees for churches or rest homes.
   5.   Ms. Maria Horton expressed gratitude to the Board and Staff for
presenting the budget effectively. She raised concerns about high capital
costs, noting 87 full-time employees, 18 part-time employees, and three part-
time employees serving 4,720 residents. Additionally, she expressed concerns
about HB 1064 and the potential impact on the city's jurisdiction. Describing
Southport as a welfare-type city, she emphasized the need for a serious
examination of the city's financial sustainability and highlighted the
challenges of limited development.
   6.   Mr. David Miller opposes cutting Emergency Medical Services from the
budget. He has been a resident of Southport for over 48 years and believes that
the city's residents expect a certain level of service. He emphasizes that
emergencies occur suddenly, and every minute is crucial in life-or death
situations.
   7.   Ms. Jeanne Brown-Busch commented that part-time employees should not be
unappreciated and replaced by full-time employees, especially in the case of a
Community Building Facilitator. She disagrees with hiring a fourth full-time
employee to generate more revenue for the Community Building.
   8.   Mr. Ronald Thompson objected to the City's proposed high inspection
fees for churches, believing it's unfair to charge fees to organizations doing
charitable work. He emphasized the significance of churches' essential services
and suggested the City exempt churches from these fees, urging the Board to
support these institutions.
   9.   Mr. Steven Dosher believes there is too much government intrusion in
the city, resulting in excessive fees. He is questioning the allocation of
these fees and believes that the city needs to work together more effectively.
He also emphasizes that churches play a vital role in the community and should
not be burdened with excessive fees that would hinder their ability to support
the community's needs.
   10.   Ms. Bonnie Bray is requesting that the Board adopt incremental tax
increases instead of the proposed 6.1 cent increase. She also noted that "Up
Your Arts" has fulfilled all the required terms since 2019. The new
organization has repeatedly asked to meet with the Board to discuss
arrangements. She said the city could work with the group to achieve a common
goal. She feels that a year without an increase is manageable.
   11.   Mr. Adam Steadman suggested hiring a consultant to consolidate
positions and expressed the need for further improvements. He also highlighted
the need to rescue the Palmetto Palm and offered his contact information for
assistance. Additionally, he questioned why more information was not provided
by Community Relations on saving the tree, especially given the hiring of an
Arborist for $6,000.
   12.   Ms. Dutton read comments submitted by Mr. Siegried De Smedt, who is
concerned about the increase in taxes, and he said that some Board members have
noted to expect more increases over the next severalyears to balance the
budget. In his opinion, it is too late to push the reset button and create a
balanced budget based on aggressive operating cost reductions, spending more
time on repurposing City properties and seeking more input on how to generate
increased revenues instead of imposing high tax increases to the citizens.
   13.   Ms. Pat Kirkman voiced her support for the proposed budget,
recognizing the necessity of a 6.1% tax increase this year. She also suggested
spreading the entire $1.2M water/sewer balance over three years and expressed
appreciation for maintaining Southport's uniqueness and preserving the Old City
Courthouse.
      There were no further comments. A motion was made by Alderman Carroll to
close the Public Hearing and second by Alderman Kelley. Unanimous Vote; Motion
Carried.
      Mayor Alt provided a summary of the discussions and concerns raised by
the citizens. He explained that several issues are still under review and
require further questions to be answered. He emphasized that there are no plans
to eliminate citizen groups and their participation in events and planning. The
discussion regarding the exemption of fire inspection fees for churches and the
entire fire fee schedule and process will require further review.
      Fire Chief Drew explained that the fire fees were doubled based on square
footage during last year's budget process and voted on by the Rate Committee.
He mentioned his good relationship with Pastor Varnam and expressed the need
for contact information for church inspections at the county. Chief Drew
highlighted the need for transparency and responsiveness to concerns and stated
that the fees were comparable to statewide standards. He also mentioned the
possibility of waiving fees for churches while clarifying that they would still
need annual inspections. Additionally, he noted that churches are tax-exempt
from the fire fees.
      Alderman Davis questioned why churches are classified as commercial
buildings. explained that churches need to be inspected for safety because they
are used for vari such as preschool and community events like Art School Holly
Days. The classificati guidelines set by the NC State Fire Code, depending on
the building's occupan assembly, institutional, or educational space.
      Alderman Mosteller mentioned that no one had approached her about needing
EMS services in the city. She has spoken to many citizens who appreciate the
quick response from the City EMS, which has saved lives. It was noted that the
County EMS would take longer to arrive in emergencies. She also had some
questions about the city's role in mutual aid. Chief Drew explained that if the
County doesn't run out of trucks and they need assistance, the City will
notsend everything to help. The crew will split up so that the City can keep
certified ambulances in the City. He said they would send just a QRV for
standby. He said there is always a paramedic who remains in the City.
G.   Board Comments
   Alderman Lai commends the presence of life-saving emergency services in the
City. He is grateful for the rapid response of the EMS during a life-
threateningsituation and emphasizes the importance of quick assistance.
   Alderman Spencer stated that the City is currently undergoing a
reorganizational phase. During this transition, it is important to do what is
right and what is best for the City. He expressed frustration with individuals
who do not live in the city or pay city taxes but still try to influence
Southport's decisions. Alderman Spencer emphasized the need for tourists and
visitors to contribute to the services provided by the City. Additionally, he
stressed the importance of treating everyone equally when it comes to fees.
   Alderman Kelley mentioned that the board is working hard to meet the city's
needs during this transitional period. She pointed out that the ETJ
(ExtraterritorialJurisdiction) does not pay ad valorem taxes. She expressed
concern about removing it, as it could lead to a significant loss for the city.
She urged everyone to contact Senator Rabon to request that the ETJ remain part
of the City to protect the corridor from becoming overwhelmed.
   Alderman Davis discussed potential ways to raise revenue without increasing
taxes. She mentioned the possibility of a meal tax but noted that state
permission would be required. The city has already requested permission and is
awaiting a response. She also expressed appreciation for the staff and citizen
participation.
   Alderman Carroll explained that the $10,000 donation to Southport Elementary
School comes from ABC revenue. He emphasized the importance of addressing fund
depletion promptly. He clarified that while it's nice to receive money-saving
recommendations, many expenses are necessary for the City's health and safety
services. He also pointed out that misinformation is spreading and clarified
the ratio of full-time employees to residents.
   Alderman Mosteller revisited the topic of the meal tax and discussed the
challenges of generating additional revenue within the limitations of the State
Statute. For instance, the City proposed a 2% increase in the occupancy tax,
which has been submitted to the legislators along with other requests that
could benefit the City's revenue. They are currently awaiting a response.
Additionally, she touched upon the Community Building and the Community
Relations Department, noting that it essentially sustains itself financially.
She emphasized the importance of the community coming together to make
decisions about the services and benefits that citizens desire.
   There was no further business or discussion. A motion was made by Alderman
Mosteller to adjourn and seconded by Alderman Kelley. Unanimous Vote; Motion
Carried.
Adjourn-8:43 pm
                              ____________________________
                              Richard Alt, Mayor
                              City of Southport
____________________________
Noah Saldo, City Clerk
June 21, 2024
Minutes Budget Meeting
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN Budget Meeting
June 21, 2024     Community Building, 223 E. Bay St.
SOUTHPORT, N.C.   9:00A.M.
 
Present:
Mayor Rich Alt, Mayor Pro Tern Rebecca Kelley, Alderman Karen Mosteller, Lowe
Davis, Robert Carroll, Frank Lai, and Mark Spencer.
Absent:
None
Staff:
Manager Bonnie Therrien, Assistant City Manager Dorothy Dutton, ChyAnn Ketchum
POI/Communications, Public Services Director Tom Stanley, Fire Chief Charles
Drew, Police Chief Todd Coring, Finance Director Lance Flint, and Parks and
Rec. Director Heather Hemphill.
A.   Mayor Rich Alt called the meeting to order at 9:00 A.M.
B.   Alderman Davis gave the Invocation.
C.   Mayor Alt led the Pledge of Allegiance.
D.   Approval of Agenda
   Mayor Alt requested amending the agenda by moving agenda item four up to
number two and adding agenda item five to discuss the Canon Foundation.
Aldermen Carroll moved this, and Alderman Lai seconded it. Unanimous Vote;
Motion Carried.
E.   Agenda
   1.    Center for the Creative Arts in Southport
      Mr. Mark Bachara presented plans for the Old City Hall, including a dual-
purpose room, kitchen, lounge, coffee shop, and classrooms. The organization
seeks funding from the City, considering endowment grants, tax credits, and
partnerships. They plan to negotiate a lease agreement or public- private
partnership to benefit the city's residents and civic needs. They emphasize the
positive impact of arts on physical and mental health and stress that their
plans will benefit the city without burdening taxpayers.
      The Board discussed whether they would have priority in the "performance
room." Mr. Bachara mentioned that this could be negotiated. Alderman Spencer
noted that emergency and special meetings occur frequently and sometimes with
little notice. Alderman Carroll suggested blocking at least five monthly
meetings to make the meeting hall available if needed. The debate is that the
board room also hosts events and concerts that generate a lot of revenue, and
if the room is not required, then it would be a loss of funds. Alderman Carroll
stated that staff has to set up at two locations for board meetings and break
down after the meetings. The goal is to find a permanent solution to the
location of meetings where audio/video and council chambers are ready and
available with minimal setup. Alderman Mosteller proposed the Board to
collaborate and brainstorm ways to create use that would benefit both sides.
Alderman Lai questioned about how long it would take to renovate the building.
Mr. Bachara said it would be a monumental project and it would take a lot of
time. Alderman Carroll estimated that even if they had 4 million dollars to
start, it would take at least 3-4 years to remedy what's existing and
restructure.
      Alderman Mosteller proposed arranging a series of meetings with the
Creative Arts non-profit Organization once the new City Manager begins their
role. The purpose of these meetings would be to generate ideas, work together
on establishing a partnership, and gather public input. Seconded by Alderman
Lai. Vay: Alderman Mosteller, Carroll, Kelley, and Lai. Nay: Alderman Davis and
Spencer. 4-2 Motion Carried.
   2.   FY2024-FY2025 Budget Deliberations
      The deliberations began with each board discussing their concerns.
Alderman Lai began by questioning the need to hire a full-time person for the
Community Building to cover gaps and weekends and whether the use of volunteers
was necessary. Community Relations Director Ms. Dail came to the podium and
said having volunteers cover the position was not something she was asked to
consider. She provided a chart as well as an explanation of how the positions
and duties would work. Alderman Davis noted that volunteers are hard to
coordinate, and it is difficult to always rely on them.
      Ms. Therrien emphasized that final decisions must be made today before
being presented to the public. She explained that if we go to the GIP page, we
can reduce taxes by a penny and still have enough funds to cover the projects,
even after taking out the general fund surplus. There were four bids for the
courthouse abatement, which came in lower than expected. However, the HVAC
system is completely gone and will need to be entirely replaced. Ms. Therrien
suggested it could be reduced to $400K. Mayor Alt mentioned it wouldn't impact
taxes even if we went for the $700K. Alderman Carroll disagreed, expressing
concerns about significant capital needs. Ms. Therrien pointed out that
assigning the capital project funds may be necessary, or the money could go
back into the general fund. Mayor Alt expressed that the $700K may be needed to
replace the HVAC system.
      Alderman Lai asked whether the Community Building needed another full-
time employee or if volunteers could fulfill therole. Community Relations
Director Allayna Dail mentioned that she had not been asked to consider this
option. She provided a chart and explained how the positions and duties would
function. Alderman Davis pointed out the challenges of coordinating and relying
on volunteers.
      Mayor Alt said that there are too many unanswered questions. He said
$200K was tossed around a lot on profits from Community Relations, and then
there was a figure of $54K. Finance Director Flint noted a $94K profit, but if
the two divisions were taken together, there would be a loss of $12,000.
      Manager Therrien suggested postponing the decision until the beginning of
the year and bringing it back to the Board for further discussion. Alderman
Davis motioned to table the decision regarding a new full time position in the
Community Relations Department until January 2025, seconded by Alderman Lai.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
      Alderman Lai questioned whether the ETJ was lost and how this would
affect staffing. Manager Therrien said that the positions that may be affected
have been discussed with the employees in Code Enforcement, Planning,
Permitting, and Inspections. Alderman Spencer stated that these positions
should remain in place until a final decision is made and then see how things
plan out.
      Alderman Lai stated that the fund balance contains a substantial amount
but questioned whether some could be removed. It was the consensus to leave the
fund balance as it is.
      Alderman Kelley has raised concerns about the fund balance policy,
questioning why we maintain a much higher balance than the policy requires.
Manager Therrien explained that according to the Government Finance Officers
Association (GFOA), a national policy necessitates having a fund balance policy
with a minimum requirement. These funds are only intended for one-time expenses
and cannot be used for recurring costs.
      Alderman Lai asked if we could cross-train new hires to perform
additional duties. Ms. Therrien replied that Chief Drew is already cross-
training with Fire and EMS, but this would not resolve the minimum staffing
issues. Chief Drew recommends staying with the original hiring of 3 new
firefighters and three new EMS. Adleman Lai motioned to take the recommendation
of Fire Chief Drew and hire 3 EMTS and 3 Firefighters. Second by Alderman
Spencer. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
      There was a discussion on MERIT Pay/COLA policies and processes. Some
guidelines and options are needed. The consensus was to work with the new City
Manager to create better guidelines.
      Alderman Kelley motioned to lower COLA to 3.2%, which was seconded by
Alderman Davis. Alderman Carroll said that there were no funds in the budget
for the job study, merits, or colas.
      Alderman Carroll motioned to leave Merit and COLA for employees as is
currently written in the budget, which Alderman Lai seconded. Yay: Alderman Lai
and Carroll. Nay: Alderman Kelley and Davis. Motion Carried 3-2.
      Alderman Lai was excused from the meeting due to a prior engagement.
      Alderman Davis questioned how many new vehicles would be added. Mr. Flint
said that no vehicles were planned for purchase in 2025. She questioned if the
staff was driving vehicles home and what the justification for doing so would
be. Mayor Alt said that the Fire and Police Chief do take city vehicles home
for quick responses.
      In discussing new positions, Alderman Spencer would like to freeze all
new hires. Alderman Mosteller said that a Planning Director is very important
and desperately needed. Mayor Alt suggested keeping the positions as they are
now and letting the new City Manager determine what positions are needed and
what are not. HR Director Fortuna said the Director of Development Services,
City Clerk, and Custodian positions are still posted and budgeted for.
      Alderman Carroll proposed that the Director of Development Services, City
Clerk, and Custodian positions remain in the budget, allowing the new City
Manager to decide which positions to fill. Second by Alderman Mosteller. Yay:
Alderman Carroll, Mosteller, and Kelley. Nay: Alderman Spencer and Davis.
Motion carried 3-2.
      Discussion on the Code Enforcement Officers. One is a part-time
contracted Code Officer, and the other is a full-time city employee. A motion
was made by Alderman Mosteller to keep both positions. Alderman Carroll
seconded. Yay: Alderman Carroll and Mosteller. Nay: Alderman Spencer, Kelley,
and Davis. Motion failed 3-2.
      Alderman Davis proposed to retain the contracted Code Enforcement Officer
as a full-time position and to reduce the full-time Code Enforcement employee
through a Reduction in Force (RIF{'}'}. Second by Alderman Kelley, Yay;
Alderman Davis and Kelley. Nay: Alderman Mosteller, Carroll, and Spencer.
Motion Failed2-3.
      Alderman Spencer moved to keep both positions for Code Enforcement,
seconded by Alderman Carroll. Yay, Alderman Spencer, Carroll, and Mosteller.
Nay; Alderman Davis and Kelley. Motion Carried 3-2.
      Discussion about the Senior Center on Fadale Ave: Alderman Davis believes
that having two senior centers in the city is unnecessary. Ms. Hemphill
mentioned that the total cost for operations is $9,000 and suggested increasing
fees. She also expressed uncertainty about whether the Brunswick County Senior
Center intends to stay at its current location. Following the discussion,
Alderman Davis made a motion to eliminate the senior programs and demolish the
building, but the motion failed due to lack of a second.
      Alderman Davis would like to use $75,000 to improve the City Gym
interior. Alderman Davis made a motion to take $75.000 from the Capital Fund
for interior repairs for the City Gym. Second by Aldermen Kelley. Yay, Alderman
Davis and Kelley. Nay: Alderman Mosteller, Carroll, and Spencer. Motion failed
2-3
      Manager Therrien questioned whether the Board had decided to eliminate
one cent from the budget that would go towards the Capital Fund.
      Alderman Davis motioned to reduce one cent that was for the Capital Fund
and reduce the General Fund surplus. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
      Discussion on the EV Charging Stations. Alderman Davis said that there
are private companies that handle this specifically. Alderman Davis motioned to
remove the EV Charging Stations from the. Electricaf Fund. Second by Alderman
Kelley. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
      A Motion was made by Alderman Mosteller to enter into a Closed Session
and second,by Alderman Kelley. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried-11:31 A.M.
Closed Session NCGS 143-318.11 (a)(3)
To consult with an attorney employed or retained by a public body, which
privilege is hereby acknowledged. General policy matters may not be discussed
in a closed session, and nothing herein shall be construed to permit a public
body to close a meeting that otherwise would be open merely because an attorney
employed or retained by the public body is a participant. The public body may
consider and give instructions to an attorney concerning the handling or
settlement of a claim, judicial action, mediation, arbitration, or
administrative procedure. If the public body has approved or considered a
settlement, other than a malpractice settlement by or on behalf of a hospital,
in closed session, the terms of that settlement shall be reported to the public
body and entered into its minutes as soon as possible within a reasonable time
after the settlement is concluded.
A motion was made by Alderman Kelley to return to the open session, and a
second was made by Alderman Spencer. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried. -11:56
P.M.
Recess for 30 minutes.
   3.   Filming Fees in Southport
      Ms. Dail presented the fee changes per the Rate Committee. There were
some questions and concerns about the filming license fees, and Alderman Kelley
would like to see comparisons to other comparable cities like Carolina Beach.
The consensus was to discuss them at another meeting. Alderman Kelley motioned
to schedule a workshop with the business owners to add input and discuss the
rates for filming. Second by Alderman Spencer. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
      Alderman Kelley motioned to update the filming fees to the projected fees
on the schedule as presented. Second by Alderman Mosteller. Unanimous Vote;
Motion Carried.
   4.   A Motion was made by Alderman Mosteller to set a date for the
Discussion about the Inclusive Playground for June 26, 2024. Second by Alderman
Spencer. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
   5.   Canon Foundation
      Mayor Alt provided a brief explanation, mentioning that there had been
discussions about applying for funding from the Canon Foundation for the
Weather Tower Project. The City applied for the Canon Foundation grant but
unfortunately did not receive the grant. However, there are currently $5,000 in
discretionary funds. The Administrator working with Southport has allocated
$5,000 to the project.
      A Motion was made by Alderman Kelley to move forward with the Canon
Foundation application to receive the $5,000 discretionary funds for the
Southport Weather Tower Project. Second By Alderman Mosteller, Unanimous Vote;
Motion Carried.
F.   Mayor's Comments/ Board Comments
The Mayor and the Board expressed their appreciation for the hard work the City
Manager and staff put into the FY 24-25 Budget. They were grateful for the
public's input and are committed to transparency and fiscal responsibility.
There was no further discussion; Alderman Kelley made a motion to adjourn,
which was seconded by Alderman Mosteller. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
Adjourn-12:55 p.m.
___________________________________
Richard Alt
Mayor
                              ___________________________________
                              Noah Saldo
                              City Clerk
June 26, 2024
Budget Adoption Minutes
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN FY 2024-2025 Budget Adoption
June 26, 2024     Community Building, 223 E. Bay St.
SOUTHPORT, N.C.   6:00 P.M.
 
Present:
Mayor Rich Alt, Mayor Pro Tern Rebecca Kelley, Alderman Karen Mosteller, Lowe
Davis, Robert Carroll, Frank Lai, and Mark Spencer.
Absent:
   None
Staff:
Manager Bonnie Therrien, Assistant City Manager Dorothy Dutton, ChyAnn Ketchum
POI/Communications, Public Services Director Tom Stanley, Fire Chief Charles
Drew, Police ChiefTodd Coring, Finance Director Lance Flint, Planning Director
Mo Meehan, and Parks and Rec. Director Heather Hemphill.
A.   Mayor Rich Alt called the meeting to order at 6:00 P.M.
B.   Alderman Davis gave the Invocation.
C.   Mayor Alt led the Pledge of Allegiance.
D.   Approval of Agenda
   Alderman Davis moved to approve the agenda with the amendment to include
agenda item 3 for a vote on the Motor Vehicle Tax, which was seconded by
Alderman Kelley. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
E.   Agenda
   1)   Discussion and Adoption of the FY 2024-2025 Budget and Budget Ordinance
      Alderman Davis moved to amend the FY 2024-2025 Budget Ordinance to reduce
the tax rate to 3.5 cents by removing $145,000 from the fund balance and adding
it to revenues. Second by Alderman Kelley.
      Alderman Carroll feels that this is just kicking the can down the road.
He recommended Alderman Spencer's recommendation to use $200,000 of the 1.2M of
the funds and then have a smaller tax increase over the next 6 years. Alderman
Davis disagreed and said this is like a savings account, and the funds have not
been appropriated. Finance Director Flint stated that using $145,000 would
bring it down to roughly 81%. Alderman Davis emphasized the necessity of
maintaining a fund balance of 55% to cover operating expenses for 5-6 months in
emergency situations. She explained that it serves as a cushion and does not
affect the capital improvement plan. However, Alderman Carroll disagreed,
claiming it involves using one-time money for ongoing expenses. Alderman Kelley
holds a different perspective and considers it a one-time use. She said placing
trust in the City Manager's ability to guide with efficiencies moving forward.
      Alderman Mosteller emphasized that we are talking about $25 per year per
house on a house value of around $225,000. While this amount can greatly impact
what we can achieve in the city, it is relatively minimal for property owners.
She urged the board to consider the surplus amount that remains after
satisfying current needs or uses. She emphasized that we do not currently have
a surplus and we need to prioritize the general fund. Alderman Mosteller also
stressed that it is not the right time to use our reserves. While she
appreciates Lowe's efforts to reduce taxes for individuals, she supports
keeping the proposed plan in place.
      Alderman Davis mentioned that there are residents in town who would never
be able to afford to buy their homes again due to property value increases.
These residents now face higher property taxes, which may seem insignificant to
some but is a significant burden for others. Additionally, the town is
preparing to impose a vehicle tax on them.
      Alderman Kelley reiterated that we have a new City Manager starting,
someone we trust to lead our City going forward. With this new perspective, we
hope to consolidate and reduce expenses.
      Alderman Lai carefully reviewed the numbers multiple times. He feels it
may just be postponing dealing with the issues now. We have a new City Manager
starting soon, so hopefully, they will see some opportunities for change.
      Alderman Mosteller acknowledged that this is a transition year, and we
expected to face these challenges. Alderman Spencer's suggestion to stretch the
funds was a great one.
      Alderman Spencer noted that we immediately passed the utility savings to
the customers. While we still have needs to address, there is a net benefit in
that. There's also a benefit to giving the utilities to the County, although
it's not a quick fix. Things are moving fast. Not only are we losing our
utilities, but we are likely losing our ETJ as well. This means we won't have
as much revenue or expenses.
      No further discussion. Motion restated: Alderman Davis moved to amend the
FY 2024-2025 Budget Ordinance to reduce the tax rate to 3.5 cents by removing
$145,000 from the fund balance and adding it to revenues. Second by Alderman
Kelley. Aye, Alderman Davis, Kelley, and Lai. Nay: Alderman Mosteller, Carroll,
and Spencer. Motion tied 3-3. Mayor Alt broke the tie with an Aye (in favor of
the motion.) Motion Carried 4-3.
      Alderman Carroll motioned to amend the 2024-2025 Fiscal Budget, stating
that the usual $10,000 donation given to Southport Elementary School should be
redirected to the Southport Elementary PTA. Second by Alderman Kelley.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
      Alderman Carroll briefly explained the decision to redirect the donated
funds from ABC revenues to the PTA. It was recently discovered that the funds
donated to Southport Elementary School were being handled by the County, and it
is uncertain where those funds ended up. By donating directly to the PTA, we
can ensure that the funds remain within Southport Elementary School.
      Alderman Davis moved to adopt the amended FY 2024-2025 Budget Ordinance,
which Alderman Lai seconded.
      Alderman Kelley stated that she believes other items in this budget could
have been cut, based on our inquiries, but were not. She thinks these items
should be reconsidered for next year. "It is the citizens' money, not our
money," she emphasized.
      All ayes. Motion carried.
   2)   Set the Date for the Inclusive Playground Public Meeting/Hearing
      Alderman Carroll moved to withdraw and terminate any grant applications
or funding that identify Taylor Field as a site for the installation of an
Inclusive Playground, with the understanding that going forward, the Board and
Staff will work with regional partners, sister communities, and the public to
build an inclusive playground. It was seconded by Alderman Lai.
      Alderman Davis mentioned that the public has expressed concerns about the
location of the inclusive playground. She emphasized the need for more
information, including whether the county would be a more suitable location and
whether they are open to the idea. She also pointed out that while people from
all over the county support the concept, they feel a different location would
be more appropriate.
      Alderman Carroll clarified that his motion was to "delay the process and
not decide on the exact location of the park until further review and
discussion." Alderman Mosteller said that the new City Manager willstart on
July 2nd, and she would like to work with him on making a plan that includes
public meetings with the regional partners and sister communities for the
Inclusive Playground.
      Ms. Therrien requested clarification on the motion to retract the state
grant and return the ElectriCities grant, as well as donations received from
banks and other companies. She believes it is only fair to inform them of the
situation. In addition, she mentioned that the Lions Club has an event
scheduled in August, with all proceeds intended to be donated to the Inclusive
Playground. Ms. Therrien inquired whether the Board intends to direct them to
donate to something else. Mayor Alt responded by stating that he would discuss
the situation with the Lions Club. He suggested allowing them to choose whether
to donate regardless and hold the funds in a separate account or to redirect
their donation.
      Aye: Alderman Carroll, Mosteller, Davis, Kelley, and Lai. Nay: Alderman
Spencer. Motion Carried 5-1.
   3)   Motor Vehicle Tax
      Alderman Kelly motioned that the collection of municipal vehicle tax of
$30 per vehicle tax hereby approved that the Manager/ City Clerk direct the
North Carolina Department of Revenue to collect this tax on vehicles registered
within the city limits of Southport and to remit the collected revenue to the
city. Second by Alderman Spencer. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
F.)   Mayor's Comments
   Mayor Alt confirmed that the North Carolina legislation has passed, removing
the ETJ from Southport. He emphasized the importance of moving forward. Mayor
Alt also acknowledged Ms. Therrien's final meeting as the City Manager and
commended her for her guidance and accomplishments in leading the city.
G.)   Board Comments
   Alderman Mosteller expressed dismay at the City's loss of the ETJ and the
impact it will have on the City's advisory boards, zoning regulations, permits,
and safeguards of the City's ordinance for protection. She emphasized her
disappointment with the decision.
   Alderman Carroll thanked Ms. Therrien for her service to the City and
expressed his commitment to advocating for the Inclusive Playground. He
believes in the project and the staff who have dedicated a significant amount
of time and effort to grant applications and design. He assured that even after
a decision is made, the Board will persist in finding the best solutions for
the playground.
   Alderman Davis agreed that everyone likes the concept of the All-Inclusive
Playground. She said she • continues to discuss the options toward the best
location for it. She thanked Ms. Therrfen for her leadership, patience, and
knowledge.
   Alderman Kelly thanked Ms. Therrien for her support and guidance, especially
in.9ssisting and sharing knowledge as a new Board Member. Ms. Kelly also
reminded everyone that the Fourth of July Festival Activities will begin this
weekend.   •••
   Alderman Spencer mentioned that the city will be experiencing significant
changes now th.at the water and sewer merger with the county has been
completed. He also brought attention to .the implications of the loss of the
ETJ. He believes that many people understand that taxes will need to be raised
to support the necessary level of services and resources that the city will
require. •
   Alderman Lai thanked Ms. Therrien for all of her work and encouragement. He
expressed his concern for the loss of the ETJ and how this will affect the
City. He stated that everyone wants an All-Inclusive Playground. However, there
needs to be a thorough discussion on where the park should be located. He said
that if Taylor Field seems to be the best location, then that is where it
should be.
H.   Closed Session:
Mayor Alt requested a motion to enter into a Closed Session and stated, per
NCGS 143-318.11 (a)(3), To consult with an attorney employed or retained by the
public body in order to preserve the attorney-client privilege between the
attorney and the public body, which privilege is hereby acknowledged. General
policy matters may not be discussed in a closed session, and nothing herein
shall be construed to permit a public body to close a meeting that otherwise
would be open merely because an attorney employed or retained by the public
body is a participant. The public body may consider and give instructions to an
attorney concerning the handling or settlement of a claim, judicial action,
mediation, arbitration, or administrative procedure. If the public body has
approved or considered a settlement, other than a malpractice settlement by or
on behalf of a hospital, in closed session, the terms of that settlement shall
be reported to the public body and entered into its minutes as soon as possible
within a reasonable time after the settlement is concluded.
A motion to enter into a Closed Session was made by Alderman Mosteller and
second by Alderman Kelley. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried. -6:44 p.m.
A motion to return to Open Session was made by Alderman Mosteller and second by
Alderman Carroll. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried. -7:19 p.m.
A motion was made to Adjourn by Alderman Carroll and second by Alderman
Mosteller. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
Adjourned-7:19 p.m.
___________________________________
Richard Alt
Mayor
                              ___________________________________
                              Noah Saldo
                              City Clerk
July 11, 2024
Regular Meeting Minutes
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN Minutes
July 11, 2024     Community Building, 223 E. Bay St.
SOUTHPORT, N.C.   6:00 P.M.
 
Present:
Mayor Rich Alt, Mayor Pro Tern Rebecca Kelley, Alderman Karen Mosteller, Lowe
Davis, Frank Lai, Mark Spencer, and Robert Carroll (via remote conference
call).
Absent:
None
Staff:
Bonnie Therrien, Manager Stuart Turille, Jr., Assistant City Manager/Clerk
Dorothy Dutton, ChyAnn Ketchum POI/Communications, Public Services Director Tom
Stanley, Fire Chief Charles Drew, Police Chief Todd Coring, Finance Director
Lance Flint, City Attorney Brady Herman, Planning Director Mo Meehan, Parks and
Rec. Director Heather Hemphill, City Engineer Bob Jarvis
A.   Mayor Rich Alt called the meeting to order at 6:00 P.M.
B.   Reverend Taylor Mills from Trinity United Methodist Church gave the
Invocation.
C.   Mayor Alt led the Pledge of Allegiance.
D.   Administering the Oath of Office to Mr. Stuart Turille, Jr., City Manager,
by Mayor Alt.
E.
   Brunswick High School Softball Team Special Recognition was postponed until
further notice.
F.   Presentation
   Duke Energy Presentation by Ms. Pam Hardy.
G.   Public Comment
   1)   Randy Jones, 701 N. Howe St., President of the 2024 North Carolina
Fourth ofJuly Festival, along with Lucinda Arnold, Senior Vice Chair, who will
be the 2025 President, expressed gratitude to the City of Southport as the
presenting sponsor. Mr. Jones said the festival could not have been done
without their support and thanked the Department Heads, Staff, and volunteers
for making it a great success.
   2)   Dina Rousset, 1116 Spincast Rd., the Preserve in Fisher Landing HOA,
requested the Board's help regarding sidewalk and landscape improvements. She
asked the Board to formally notify the developer of default on a $66,000 bond.
Ms. Rousset also requested the City to manage sidewalk construction and take
over the Development's Streets. If the bond's requirements for the sidewalks
are not fulfilled, they requested the City to forgo the sidewalks and still
accept the streets.
   3)   Penelope North, residing at 411 Trout Lily Lane, is concerned about the
clear-cutting in Southport. She has observed numerous lots that have been
cleared and would like clarification on how this has occurred. She is worried
about Phase 2 of her development in the Cottages at Prices Creek and is
concerned about the excessive amount of tree removal and how this will affect
her property.
   4)   John Dicks, who lives at 1151 Spincast Rd. in Fisher Landing, has been
a resident of this development since 2022. He is concerned about the cost of
installing the sidewalks and the burden being put on the community's residents.
He urged the Board to take action on the developer and to follow through on the
$66,000 bond.
   5)   Lora Sharkey, 432 Cades Trail, is against leasing Old City Hall/
Courthouse to a non-profit or for any use other than a functional government
facility. She mentioned the need for a Comprehensive Plan for all City
Properties. Lora suggested that if the City is no longer interested in
repairing and using it for the functioning of Government Services such as
Police, Board Chambers, Offices, etc., then the Board should consider selling
it and purchasing properties that can be used exclusively for Municipal
purposes.
   6)   Cynthia Sinsay. a resident of the Preserve at Fisher Landing, has
gathered 63 signatures from 47 homes in opposition to the installation of
sidewalks. Her main concern is the potential damage to her landscaping if the
sidewalks are installed. She is puzzled about issuing the Certificate of
Occupancy before everything, including the sidewalks, was completed. Cynthia
feels that the developers were not transparent and questions how this could
have happened with the City supposedly issuing permits and doing inspections
before the house was deemed final.
   7)   Kim Moss, of 1057 Downrigger at Fisher Landing, is concerned about the
expense and construction of the sidewalks, which she was never told were
required. She mentioned that many residents were unaware that sidewalks were
part of the community plan. Everyone has already completed stormwater,
irrigation, and landscaping. She kindly requested that the city waive the
requirement for sidewalks and accept the streets in Fisher Landing instead.
   8)   Jim Connell, who lives at 1016 Downrigger Trail, expressed his concerns
about the situation in Fisher Landing. He believes that the residents have been
misled. According to him, the driveways are very small, and even small cars
barely fit in without the bumper sticking out. He is worried that sidewalks
will further encroach into the driveway space. Additionally, he feels that the
sidewalks are entirely unnecessary. Jim requests the Board not to impose the
expense of sidewalks on the citizens, as the community does not want them, and
the developer never informed anyone about their installation.
   9)   Sue Hodgin of 608 Cottage Point Way, a resident of Southport, stated
that her comments are her own and do not represent any official board,
commission, or committee. She expressed her concerns about HB 911, a local bill
that was ratified in late June without any documented City public education
efforts, community meetings or solicitation of citizenry involvement. Ms.
Hodgin suggested that the City's letter regarding the legislation should have
been published on the City website for transparency. She also questioned why
only the Mayor, and not the entire Board of Aldermen, was published to have
been involved in any compromise offered, since they are tasked with voting in
decisions or actions for the City. She called for transparency from elected
officials and requested the release of Closed Session minutes related to the
bill. She mentioned a petition still underway to repeal the bill and stated
that noble as its intent is, her firm belief is that it won't happen, with many
municipalities involved in the bill. Ms. Hodgin proposed that the City staff
collaborate with County Planning staff to find the best possible solution and
avoid further division both in the city and with County and State officials.
   10)   David Geary, residing at 1125 Spincast Rd., stated that the sidewalks
in the Preserve at Fisher Landing will not affect him because they won't be on
his side of the street. His concern is the 5ft: width of the sidewalks, as ADA
compliance guidelines specify a minimum width of 3ft. He requested the Board to
consider constructing the sidewalks with a width of 3ft: while still ensuring
ADA compliance.
   11)   Ginny Prunty of 5906 Dutchman Creek Rd. reported that the County board
had sent a letter to the General Assembly requesting the ability to preserve
heritage trees and prohibit clear-cutting on parcels larger than 25 acres.
However, no action has been taken in either house. Representative Charlie
Miller mentioned that the issue is under consideration. Ginny emphasized that
bills are being passed rapidly and urged the Board of Aldermen to remain
engaged and vigilant in encouraging the County Commissioners to pressure the
State Representatives.
   12)   Frank Boate, who lives at 1033 Downrigger, submitted comments that Ms.
Dutton read. He shared his concerns about the installation of sidewalks in the
neighborhood. He was unaware of the plans and worried about safety and
economics. He has requested the City to take responsibility for the sidewalk
project and the roads within the Preserve at Fisher Landing.
   13)   Nick Catrambone of 1005 Downrigger submitted comments that Ms. Dutton
read. He has requested that the City enforce the rules and regulations
established for developers and builders to build and develop the community,
specifically regarding the installation of sidewalks. He believes the City
should ensure that the sidewalks are installed without any financial impact on
the residents.
      Alderman Mosteller motioned to close Public Comment, which Alderman
Kelley seconded. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
H.   Approval of Agenda
   Alderman Mosteller made a motion to approve the agenda, seconded by Alderman
Kelley. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
I.   Approval of the Consent Agenda
   Alderman Mosteller motioned to approve the Consent Agenda and schedule all
three Public Hearings on the Consent Agenda for August 8th, which was seconded
by Alderman Kelley. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
   1.   Minutes of the Special Budget Workshop Meeting May 14, 2024
   2.   Minutes of the Special Budget Workshop Meeting May 17, 2024
   3.   Minutes of the Regular Board of Aldermen Meeting June 5, 2024
   4.   Minutes of the Closed Session Meeting June 5, 2024 (sealed envelope)
   5.   Minutes of the Special Budget Meeting June 5, 2024
   6.   Minutes of the Special Budget Workshop Meeting June 6, 2024
   7.   Set a Public Hearing: Section 3.19 Signs
   8.   Set a Public Hearing: Section 3.17 Landscaping and Buffers and Section
3.14 Parking
   9.   Set a Public Hearing: Section 4.14.C. Amount of Land Dedication-Open
Space Calculation.
J.   Agenda
   1.   Cemetery Committee Updates (Larry Ashley, Cemetery Committee Chair)
      Mr. Larry Ashley, Chairman of the Cemetery Committee, presented the
committee's recent activities and objectives. The committee is currently
updating the Cemetery Ordinance and records to confirm the locations of all
Veterans' graves. They have also sought legal clarification from the City
Attorney regarding the legalities of individual gravesites. Safety hazards at
The Smithville Cemetery, including old fencing, copings, galvanized piping, and
potentially hazardous trees, were brought to attention. Mr. Ashley also
proposed updating the signage identifying Veterans and suggested the potential
expansion of Northwoods, including the introduction of cremation lots or
columbariums.
      The Committee discussed the revision of the Cemetery Ordinance, including
updating regulations, records, fees, and surveys. Furthermore, they are
considering amending the Cemetery Ordinance to allow for the appointment of
replacement members when positions become vacant.
      Alderman Mosteller praised the Committee for their work on the "Cemetery
Ordinance" and recommended continuing the effort. She also suggested
incorporating the Mission Statement and discussing signage with Ms. Dail and
the Historic Preservation Commission. Alderman Kelley noted the importance of
being careful when dealing with gravesites to avoid offending and suggested
marking veterans' graves with coins. Mayor Alt voiced support for preserving
and protecting the cemeteries.
   2.   Adoption of the Capital Improvement Plan and Project Updates. (Bob
Jarvis)
      City Engineer Mr. Bob Jarvis gave an overview of the Plan. He explained
that the City is in its second year of preparing for a six-year Capital
Improvement Program (CIP). The CIP includes project summaries with
descriptions, estimated costs, financing methods, and implementation schedules.
Staff meetings have been held to ensure an accurate reflection of capital
needs. The board is being asked to formally adopt the CIP to demonstrate the
city's commitment to responsibly preserving its capital assets and facilitating
grant funding and bond rating. It's important to note that adopting the CIP
does not mean approving future spending, but it provides a guide for future
projects and spending, helping with annual budget planning and long-term
financing needs. He stated that a CIP helps with grant funding and bonding.
      Alderman Mosteller motioned to adopt the FY 2025-2030 Capital Improvement
Plan but to remove the All- Inclusive Playground Project. Alderman Davis
seconded.
      Alderman Kelley inquired about the projects' pnontization. Mr. Jarvis
responded that the departments have only identified the projects and not
prioritized them. Mayor Alt mentioned that there have been discussions with the
City Manager about organizing workshops for the Board to prioritize the
projects. He also stated that he would work on scheduling the workshops and
provide the dates at the next meeting. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
Project Updates
   Mr. Jarvis stated that the board receives a monthly project report, which is
also updated and included on the website every month. He provided a list of
some of the projects and offered an overview. He said the projects are overseen
and managed by the department heads and other staff. Mr. Jarvis then listed the
projects and provided an overview of each one.
   Ms. Therrien provided an update on the Weather Tower Project, stating that
$77,200 is still needed, with $70,070 already raised. City Manager Turille will
collaborate with County Managers to discuss the All- Inclusive Playground. The
Steering Committee reviewed the Comprehensive Master Plan draft vision
statements, and the Parking Study draft report will be addressed in August.
Other topics included FEMA reimbursements, stormwater mapping, Franklin Square
Park, and the Underground Electric Project. Mr. Turille will conduct weekly
project meetings and set up project timelines.
   3.   Shoreline Stabilization Project Proposal (Bob Jarvis)
      Mr. Jarvis gave an overview of the project's progress. Developing a
project phasing scheme is necessary due to the current amount of funding
available for the design, permitting, and construction of the proposed
improvements. Funding for the project was provided through a $5M grant from the
State Emergency Response and Disaster Relief Fund that will expire on June 30,
2026.
      Olsen Associates has prepared Task Order 04 for the next phase, which
includes providing engineering and environmental permitting services to help
the City obtain state and federal environmental permits for shoreline
restoration and stabilization. Specific tasks involve developing design plans
and documentation, submitting the permit application, conducting biological
assessments, analyzing sand fill samples, and addressing regulatory agency
comments.
      According to the scope of work, Alderman Mosteller pointed out that the
preferred plan requires private property owners along the project shoreline to
sign easements with the City. These easements indicate their agreement with the
public activity within their riparian area. The City needs these easements in
place before applying for the CAMA major permit. If the easements are not
secured, the project plan will have to be modified accordingly. She mentioned
the need to contact property owners promptly to collaborate on implementing the
best design for a successful outcome.
      Alderman Mosteller made a motion to authorize Olsen Associates' Task 04
to continue work on design development, coordination, and permitting for the
Shoreline Stabilization Project. Alderman Kelley seconded the motion. Unanimous
Vote; Motion Carried.
   4.   The Preserve at Fisher Landing: Sidewalks (Mo Meehan)
      Ms. Meehan gave an overview of the topic. The Preserve at Fisher Landing
is a cluster subdivision consisting of 48 single-family lots on 15 acres. When
the subdivision was approved, the UDO required infrastructure to be installed
or performance bonds to be submitted before recording a final plat. The
developer submitted a performance guarantee equal to $66,412.50 for the
sidewalks. Building permits were issued in 2020 without the sidewalks being
installed as the houses were being built.
      In April 2023, Michael House from Cape Fear Engineering requested the
release of landscaping bonds to the developer, Hoosier Daddy, LLC, along with
the outstanding sidewalk improvements. Former Development Services Director
Travis Henley approved the release of the landscape bond, and the HOA is
willing to install the sidewalks. The cost estimate for sidewalk installation
is now $87,600. The City needs to decide whether to leave the installation to
the HOA, release payments to the HOA as they complete the sidewalks, or have
the City cover the remaining costs.
      Alderman Davis inquired whether the City or the HOA could file a lawsuit
against the Developer. Attorney Herman explained that according to the
documents, the City holds the Developer responsible. Still, there is a dispute
between the Builder and the Developer regarding the responsibility for the
sidewalks. Alderman Davis asked if the City could claim the bond to fund the
sidewalk construction, which would cost $25,000 to $30,000, and whether the
City could sue for those funds. Mr. Herman clarified that the City could sue
for the difference in court but noted that even if the City won, there's no
guarantee that the money would be recovered through a court judgment. He
advised considering the attorney fees and the challenge of finding assets to
recover the $25,000 to $30,000.
      Alderman Mosteller is seeking clarification on the bond. If it's called,
will the funds be distributed incrementally, and does the City just give the
HOA the money, or does the City manage it? Mr. Herman mentioned the need to
finalize details after securing the funds. Public bidding requirements may
apply if the City plans to involve the HOA and use public funds with a third
party. He stated that this is achievable, but we need to finalize the agreement
between the City, HOA, and a potential construction company.
      Alderman Carroll moved to proceed with option #2, which calls the bond
and releases payments to the HOA as they complete the sidewalks. Second by
Alderman Kelley.
      Mr. Herman interjected and recommended that the motion be contingent on
the city receiving the actual money from the bond.
      Alderman Carroll amended the motion to proceed with calling the bond and
releasing the payment to the HOA as they complete the sidewalks, with the HOA
being responsible for the difference. However, this is dependent on the city
receiving the money from the bond. Alderman Kelley seconded the motion.
      Alderman Mosteller questioned whether the homeowners association (HOA)
would be responsible for the actual construction of the sidewalks but received
no response. Mayor Alt called for a vote. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
      Alderman Davis commented that this problem keeps happening and that more
developments are coming. She requested a workshop to discuss how to prevent it
from occurring again. Alderman Mosteller suggested having the city attorney
look into some alternatives. Mr. Herman mentioned that the city does not have a
performance guarantee and frequently sees this situation happening. He said he
would be happy to explore best practices to avoid the problem before plat
approval.
   5.   Real Estate Company (Alderman Davis and Alderman Carroll)
      Alderman Davis explained that in the past, the Board of Aldermen
requested that a Request for Qualifications (RFQ) be published to determine if
hiring a realtor to represent the City when researching, purchasing, or selling
real estate is feasible. She said one proposal was received. The Board decided
to wait until a new City Manager is hired so that they can receive input from
Mr. Turille on whether this is needed or not. If the decision is to proceed,
the Board will reissue the Request for Proposal. She stated that the Board did
not want to select anyone with any interests in conflict. She asked that this
be something to consider.
      Alderman Carroll believed that it would be appropriate at this time to
submit another Request for Qualifications (RFQ). He recommended advertising for
the RFQ in New Hanover County and for a realtor specializing in Commercial Real
Estate.
      Alderman Carroll motioned to advise the City Manager to reissue a Request
for Qualifications (RFQ) for the engagement of a real estate professional
specializing in commercial real estate within the New Hanover County market.
Second by Alderman Lai. Aye: Alderman Carroll, Mosteller, Davis, Kelley, and
Lai. Nay: Alderman Spencer. 5-1 Motion Carried.
K.   Committee Reports in Agenda Packets
L.   Manager's Report
   Mr. Turille expressed his gratitude for the successful Fourth of July
celebrations. He provided an update on the All-Inclusive Playground, mentioning
a meeting with the County Manager to explore establishing a regional All-
Inclusive Park on County property. They plan to meet with other area managers
to reach a collective agreement. This discussion took place alongside a public
workshop. Mr. Turille is organizing the first meeting with the area managers,
noting the county manager's openness to the concept.
   He is working on transferring administrative rules and plans to the County
Planning Department, aiming to harmonize zoning rules with Southport's zoning.
He plans to conduct a fiscal impact analysis, and there will be two upcoming
public meetings on July 25th and August 12th.
   Mr. Turille provided an update on the renovation of the Old City Courthouse.
He has received quotes for the environmental review and plans to meet with the
Arts Council to discuss future plans for the building. After the budget is
adopted, he will kickstart the projects and work on the Creek Water Management
policy and signage. He intends to present a recommendation to the Board in
August.
   He plans to conduct a strategic needs assessment focusing on addressing
items within a 45 to 60-day timeframe. Progress has been made on job vacancies,
with interviews conducted for the Development Services Director and Clerk
positions. Mr. Turille emphasized the importance of filling these positions and
expressed interest in scheduling a board retreat to work on visions, goals, and
strategies, with the intention of inviting the Department Heads to participate.
M.   Mayor's Comments
   Mayor Alt announced that golf cart registration began on June 26th, and the
current stickers expire on July 31st. The Police Department will provide
inspections and issue new stickers at the summer market until August 7th. The
new registration fee is $50.
   Regarding the 9th St. and 11th St. culverts, a representative observed that
the 9th St. culvert is too small, with concerns that it could wash out and
potentially cause the road to collapse. The state is now involved and will
decide whether to install a larger culvert or multiple culverts.
N.   Board Comments
   Alderman Lai indicated that despite completing a challenging budget and
making significant progress, this was just the beginning. There are many
important tasks ahead, and the Board will be very busy.
   Alderman Spencer raised concerns about a scheduling conflict for an upcoming
public meeting due to several members attending a conference. Mayor Alt will
discuss this with the City Manager. Alderman Spencer also questioned a
regulation regarding building a storage unit, expressing disagreement and
requesting a review by the Staff. He also mentioned interest in reviewing
accessory dwelling restrictions for affordable housing options in Southport.
   Alderman Kelley suggested scheduling City Planning Board Meetings on
different days than County Planning Board Meetings to allow everyone to attend
both meetings. She emphasized the importance of staying informed by attending
both the County Commissioners Meeting and the County Planning Board Meeting.
Additionally, she expressed pride in the successful 4th of July festival and
encouraged support for the talented youth baseball teams from Southport and the
County.
   Alderman Davis reminded everyone about the upcoming community meetings
regarding the future use of Franklin Square Park on July 17th and July 27th.
She also mentioned the 102- and 97-year-old veterans in the 4th of July parade
and requested feedback on the festival for a future Aldermen Agenda.
   Alderman Carroll expressed gratitude for participating remotely and deemed
the meeting successful. He thanked the City Staff, Volunteers, and the NC 4th
of July Festival Committee, highlighting this year's event as the best in 47
years.
   Alderman Mosteller agreed that the 4th of July Festival was fantastic,
especially when riding on the float with the volunteers.
O. Closed Session
   Mayor Alt requested a motion to enter into a Closed Session per NCGS 143-
318.11 (a)(3) To consult with an attorney employed or retained by the public
body in order to preserve the attorney-client privilege between the attorney
and the public body, which privilege is hereby acknowledged. General policy
matters may not be discussed in a closed session, and nothing herein shall be
construed to permit a public body to close a meeting that otherwise would be
open merely because an attorney employed or retained by the public body is a
participant. The public body may consider and give instructions to an attorney
concerning the handling or settlement of a claim, judicial action, mediation,
arbitration, or administrative procedure. If the public body has approved or
considered a settlement, other than a malpractice settlement by or on behalf of
a hospital, in closed session, the terms of that settlement shall be reported
to the public body and entered into its minutes as soon as possible within a
reasonable time after the settlement is concluded.
   Alderman Mosteller moved to enter closed session, seconded by Alderman
Spencer. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried. -8:56 p.m.
   Alderman Spencer moved to return to open session and adjourn, second by
Alderman Kelley. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
P. Adjoum-9:39 p.m.
___________________________________
Richard Alt
Mayor
                              ___________________________________
                              Noah Saldo
                              City Clerk
August 5, 2024
Regular Meeting Minutes
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
August 5, 2024    Community Building, 223 E. Bay St.
SOUTHPORT, N.C.   9:00AM
 
Present:
Mayor Rich Alt,
Mayor Pro Tern Rebecca Kelley,
Aldermen Karen Mosteller, Lowe Davis, Frank Lai, Mark Spencer, and Robert
Carroll
Staff:
City Manager Stuart Turille, Jr.,
Assistant City Manager/Clerk Dorothy Dutton,
ChyAnn Ketchum POI/ Communications,
Tom Zilinek City Engineer,
Todd Coring Police Chief
A.   Call to Order
   Mayor Rich Alt called the meeting to order at 9:01 AM.
B.   Invocation
   Reverend Alderman Davis gave the Invocation.
C.   Pledge of Allegiance
   Mayor Alt led the Pledge of Allegiance.
D.   Public Comment
   Alderman Kelley made a motion to go into Public Comment. Alderman Spencer
seconded the motion. Unanimous Vote; Motion carried.
   Bonnie Bray, 515 Quartermaster Drive: Thank you for addressing the old
courthouse and for meeting with the Center for the Creative Arts tomorrow
evening.
   Alderman Mosteller made a motion to come out of Public Comment; Alderman
Carroll seconded the motion. Unanimous Vote; Motion carried.
E.   Approval of Agenda
   Alderman Kelley made a motion to Amend the Agenda to include a closed
session at the end of the agenda pursuant to NCGS 143-318.11. (6) To consider
the qualifications, competence, performance, character, fitness, conditions of
appointment, or conditions of initial employment of an individual public
officer or employee or prospective public officer or employee; or to hear or
investigate a complaint, charge, or grievance by or against an individual
public officer or employee. General personnel policy issues may not be
considered in a closed session. A public body may not consider the
qualifications, competence, performance, character, fitness, appointment, or
removal of a member of the public body or another body. It may not consider or
fill a vacancy among its own membership except in an open meeting. Final
action, such as making an appointment or discharge or removal by a public body
having final authority for the appointment or discharge or removal, shall be
taken in an open meeting. (3) To consult with an attorney employed or retained
by the public body in order to preserve the attorney-client privilege between
the attorney and the public body, which privilege is hereby acknowledged.
General policy matters may not be discussed in a closed session, and nothing
herein shall be construed to permit a public body to close a meeting that
otherwise would be open merely because an attorney employed or retained by the
public body is a participant. The public body may consider and give
instructions to an attorney concerning the handling or settlement of a claim,
judicial action, mediation, arbitration, or administrative procedure.
   And approve the remainder of the agenda as presented. Alderman Mosteller
seconded the motion. Unanimous Vote; Motion carried.
F.   Approval of the Consent Agenda
   Alderman Kelley made a motion to Approve the Consent Agenda. Alderman Lai
seconded the motion. Unanimous Vote; Motion carried.
   1.   Budget Amendment #1: Automatic Transfer Switch
   2.   City Dock Boat Slip Design Contract (B. Jarvis, H. Hemphill)
G.   Special Recognition
   Introduction of new employees
   Director of Community Relations Allayna Dail presented two new employees in
her department.
   They are Jessie Labell, Assistant Director of Community Relations, and Karen
Martin, Building and Events Manager.
   Finance Director Lance Flint introduced the new Deputy Finance Director,
Joey Kronenwetter.
H.   Special Presentations
   Linda Stanley, President & CEO of Dosher Memorial Hospital, gave an update
on the hospital. She has been with the hospital for 38 years since she came
from Savannah, GA. We have a jewel here, and she is honored to be a part of the
town's progress. We are very privileged to have a small community hospital for
95 years in Southport. Not too many small community hospitals have survived. It
is the only critical access still in practice in NC, partly because of the
hospital tax. We are grateful that the community saw the need and chose to tax
themselves to help keep the hospital open. The tax can only be used for
maintenance and upkeep of the space, not operations or salaries. Over 100
volunteers have shown up to assist. Growth has helped the hospital stay open.
Master Facility Plan Our operating room is very busy. Installed a second washer
at the OR. On Long Beach Rd, there are three additional pods to hire new
physicians. OKI renovation finished at the end of August with two additional
provider spaces. Waiting on permitting. The project should take about a year.
Alderman Lai spoke about his personal experience with Dosher and thanked her
for all her efforts.
I.   Agenda
   1.   Tree Penalty Settlement Request (Tina Monk)
   Ms. Tina Monk, the property owner, was fined for removing trees with a 20-
foot easement. Asking to reduce the fine to just the easement space. City
Manager Turille stated staff toured the property, and the fine was imposed
based on square footage. Assistant City Manager/Clerk Dorothy Dutton stated the
way the ordinance is written; you are fined based on the square footage of the
lot. Alderman Kelley asked if she had a tree survey prior to cutting the trees.
Ms. Monk said she didn't but did have photos. Alderman Lai asked if a lien was
placed on the property. Ms. Monk said there was, but she never was served
papers in regard to the lien. Mayor Alt asked Assistant Manager/ Clerk Dutton
to verify a document that showed the sheriff's department had served the
papers. Ms. Monk said she never received the papers. Aldermen Davis stated the
ordinance is crystal clear. There is no reason for us to change the fine.
Aldermen Mosteller stated there is another violation that should be applied:
the lack of a zoning permit. Mayor Alt asked how much of the total acreage was
cleared. Ms. Monk said 4,000 sq ft was cleared.
Alderman Davis made a motion not to alter the penalty or lien against Tina
Monk, and Alderman Mosteller seconded the motion. Aye: Alderman Carroll, Davis,
Mosteller, and Lai. Nay: Alderman Kelley, Spencer (4-2). Motion Carried.
   2.   Code of Ordinance Amendments-Chapter 19. Utilities (Tom Zilinek)
   Tom Zilinek, City Engineer, stated these amendments are Clerical. We don't
have utilities anymore, so this language removes the language for the City and
adds the County's language. Alderman Mosteller wants to make sure that the
County will bore under the streets instead of street cuts. Mr. Zilinek stated
He is working on a street-cutting permit that will be brought back in the late
summer/early fall. Aldermen Davis recommends that if the County is going to cut
into the streets, they let the business owners know ahead of time. Mr. Zilinek
stated sometimes, when they do this work, it is an emergency, so notice cannot
be given.
   Alderman Kelley made a motion to Approve the Code of Ordinance Amendments-
Chapter 19. Utilities. Aldermen Mosteller seconded the motion. Unanimous Vote;
Motion carried.
   3.   Stormwater Ordinance Discussion (Tom Zilinek)
   The City Engineer, Tom Zilinek, presented on stormwater management and the
City's ordinance. Impervious surfaces keep water from being absorbed into the
ground. The stormwater plan through Greenleaf will be completed this fall.
Then, we will have the study, map, and new ordinance.
   Aldermen Davis stated this is great. What are we going to do about
impervious coverage on infill properties? Can we require a more complete
stormwater review?
   Mr. Zilinek stated that it would be part of the ordinances for planning, not
the stormwater ordinances.
   At the corner of 11th and Lord and Caswell, there are no stormwater drains
or a place for the water to go. Are there any plans to add stormwater
infrastructure? Mr. Zilinek-this is a multi-year project. Aldermen Davis asked
if there was anything we could do because E. Moore Street is a dam. The
Hammocks experiences issues. Aldermen Spencer stated we've improved the flow of
water into the drains, but it is going to creeks, and so far, the water hasn't
been filtered. Mr. Zilinek stated a good plan addresses water quality, too.
Aldermen Spencer asked how we do anything with State roads when we don't have
any right to do anything. Zilinek stated the first step is to get the plan in
place and then we can go to the state to ask for help. We might be able to do
the work ourselves. Mayor Alt stated that the entire board is very enthusiastic
about moving forward with this project. NCDEQ has statutory authority to grant
stormwater permits. We are not trying to supersede NCDEQ's authority, but we
have the authority to do it. We aren't telling developers HOW to manage their
stormwater; only how much stormwater control is needed. It won't mandate any
specific method. Alderman Davis, one of her favorite places worldwide, is Sweet
Treats at OKI. They have the previous concrete. They have had no problems. Is
there anything more impervious than concrete? Mr. Zilinek-any hardened surface
is impervious. Alderman Spencer asked if we could harvest water in Southport.
Mr. Zilinek stated that one of the BMPs is using rain barrels. Alderman
Mosteller said the road is higher than the sidewalk, acting like a dam. City
Manager Turille stated that the mapping is critical; thanks for the board's
support.
   4.   Historic Courthouse Abatement Bids (Tom Zilinek and Tom Stanley)
   Historic Courthouse abatement bids: three contracts: abatement bids, HICAPs
to supervise the abatement project, and award to HICAPs for air monitoring. We
have also recently done a PO for structural analysis and an HVAC service/
repairs. HVAC will keep it clean until we figure out how to use the building.
All of these steps will be done by the end of the year. We have to do this
environmental remediation whether or not we can keep it or it has to come down.
Mayor Alt asked if the HVAC had to be working when we started to clean it. Mr.
Zilinek said no. The contractor has to have a positive airflow through the
building.
   Alderman Carroll made a motion to Approve the contract with Rhino. Alderman
Lai seconded the motion. Unanimous Vote; Motion carried.
   Alderman Carroll motioned to Approve the contract with HICAPS for
construction monitoring. Alderman Kelley seconded the motion. Unanimous Vote;
Motion carried.
   Alderman Carroll made a motion to Approve the contract with HICAPS.
   Alderman Kelley seconded the motion. Unanimous Vote; Motion carried.
   5.   Approval of the Cemetery Committee's Mission Statement (Marc Spencer)
   Alderman Spencer-Cemetery Mission Statement-mission, vision, and guiding
principles. Ask that we approve the mission statement, vision, and guiding
principles. Alderman Mosteller, our ordinances are so thorough that they
replace bylaws. But the cemetery committee is so new she asks that they use
some of this language to amend their ordinance. Alderman Davis was on the ad
hoc committee. The mission statement is very excellent, but it needs to be that
they identify problems and solutions and bring them to the Board. Aldermen
Spencer motioned to approve the Cemetery Committee's Mission Statement.
Aldermen Mosteller seconded the motion. Yay: Aldermen Mosteller, Carroll,
Kelley, Lai, and Spencer and Aldermen Davis voting Nay (5-1 ). Motion Carried.
   Cemetery Signs: Veteran's illegible Sign. It would like to be removed.
Aldermen Spencer motioned to direct staff to remove the old veteran's sign.
Alderman Mosteller seconded. Unanimous Vote: Motion Carried.
   Road Signs that are faded. Move forward with replacing the signs. Aldermen
Spencer made a motion to begin the process of replacing the old road signs.
Aldermen Carroll seconded the motion. Unanimous Vote: Motion Carried. Motion
made by Alderman Lai to use the same designs throughout the City. Seconded by
Alderman Carroll. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
   6.   Discussion about Future Meeting Dates and Possible Retreat
   Assistant Manager/ Clerk Dutton asked about potential meeting dates for the
inclusive playground and the Center for the Creative Arts. City Manager Turille
presented Alderman Davis with the idea that we should see what comes out of
tomorrow's meeting before we schedule a second meeting. She didn't see anywhere
in the minutes where we promised two meetings. Alderman Carroll -we can hold
off until we have more information. Alderman Lai-best case is that we handle is
all tomorrow night. Postpone scheduling the second meeting. Lots of discussion
about allowing the public to comment or holding a separate public input
meeting. Alderman Mosteller, we will need multiple meetings. She supports what
Alderman Kelley said. Mayor Alt asked Alderman Davis to withdraw her motion.
   Alderman Davis, postpone the discussion about scheduling this topic until we
have further information. Alderman Kelley seconded.
   Alderman Carroll is more inclined to give some dates at this point.
   Mr. Turille, we have time. This is an important decision, so we should not
rush it. It will take a few meetings. All ayes. Motion carried.
   Inclusive Playground: Stuart has a meeting tomorrow with the regional
manager. We will have those after tomorrow. Alderman Davis motioned to add
Inclusive Playground for September 30th at the CB at 6 p.m. Alderman Carroll
seconded. Alderman Carroll, we could add both topics to this meeting.
   Alderman Davis anticipates a large crowd, so the meeting will be quite long.
All ayes.
   Motion carried. The playground meeting will be at 6 p.m. on the 30th at the
CB.
   Retreat: He watched the budget meetings. He wants us to start earlier. The
City is at a crossroads, and it is helpful to have a vision. He thinks it is
helpful to approach it as a retreat.
   We could have pros and cons here, but the cooperative extension allows us to
use it for free. Alderman Davis, we have a retreat every year. The retreat
would be helpful to Mr. Turille but not to the Board. They know their
priorities, but they don't all agree on them. We have the CIP and Comprehensive
plan. She will vehemently oppose going off-site. This is an open public
meeting, and at least a few people have always attended. Alderman Mosteller-she
understands Lowe's opinion. But it is also wise to get us outside of ourselves.
Alderman Carroll is in favor of the retreat. It is important to have open
conversations.
   Alderman Lai-it would be helpful to the City Manager.
   Mr. Turille said it would also be helpful for the department heads to share
their vision for their depts.
   Alderman Davis, it has got to be easy for the public to attend and has to be
recorded.
   Ms. Ketchum will not be able to record at the Cooperative Extension. Maybe
at the fire dept.
   Motion to schedule a retreat: January time frame: Alderman Spencer and
Alderman Kelley seconded. All ayes. Motion to specify a date and a time: defer
those decisions once staff identifies some options. September 2nd meeting
reschedule: Cancel the first meeting, not to reschedule. Alderman Carroll,
second Alderman Spencer. All ayes.
   Alderman Mosteller would like us to consider scheduling a public meeting
about the ET J issue with staff. She suggests the sooner, the better. Add a
discussion for the 8th regarding the ET J.
   Staff would be prepared to discuss the benefits of being in the City.
J.   Manager's Report
   Manager's Report: Regional meeting of managers to discuss the inclusive
playground. The approach to the County should be unified. Staff articulated
three points: quality of life, preservation of the character of historic/
downtown Southport, and corridor overlay. August 12th County PB meeting with
more opportunity to speak. August 20th at 2 pm-Board meeting. The Historic
Courthouse- it is refreshing to see the efforts being made to preserve the
courthouse. Essential to preserve our heritage.
K.   Mayor's Comments
   Mayor's Comments: will hold them to Thursday. This Board has been
exceedingly busy.
L.   Board Comments
   Alderman Kelley, thanks to the City staff for emergency management. The PW
team will deal with the aftermath. Please visit the website or Facebook to get
information about the storms and preparedness. Alderman Davis, you lived
through lots of storms. If Thursday is awful and we need to reschedule, we
should.
M.   Adjourn
   Alderman Davis made a motion to go into closed session. Alderman Kelley
seconded the motion. Unanimous Vote; Motion carried.
   Alderman Kelley made a motion to return to open session. Alderman Lai
seconded the motion. Unanimous Vote; Motion carried. Closed session ended at
10:20 AM.
   Alderman Kelley made a motion to adjourn. Alderman Carroll seconded the
motion. Unanimous Vote; Motion carried.
Adjourn-10:20 AM
___________________________________
Rebecca Kelley
Mayor Pro-Tem
                              ___________________________________
                              Noah Saldo
                              City Clerk
August 20, 2024
Special Meeting Minutes
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN SPECIAL MEETING
August 20, 2024   223 E. BAY STREET
SOUTHPORT, N.C.   6:00 PM
 
Present:
Mayor Rich Alt,
Aldermen Karen Mosteller, Lowe Davis, Robert Carroll, Frank Lai, and Marc
Spencer.
Mayor Pro Tern Rebecca Kelley arrived at 6:19 PM.
Staff:
City Manager Stuart Turille Jr.,
City Clerk Noah Saldo,
PIO/Communications ChyAnn Ketchum,
Police Chief Todd Coring,
Fire Chief Charles Drew,
City Planner Mo Meehan,
Park and Recreation Director Heather Hemphill,
Community Relations Director Allayna Dail,
City Engineer Tom Zilinek,
Battalion Chief Ralph Treadway,
City Attorney Brady Herman.
A.   Call to Order
   Mayor Alt called the meeting to order at 6:00PM.
B.   Invocation
   Rev Aldermen Lowe Davis delivered the invocation.
C.   Pledge of Allegiance
   Mayor Alt led the pledge of allegiance.
D.    Public Comment
   William Flythe 620 E. Leonard St.- Good evening Mayor and City Aldermen. I
am Bill Flythe, a resident of Southport. Public comments were made at a recent
meeting of the Brunswick County Board of Commissioners on three issues:
Annexation, ET J, and TIA. A letter to the editor on these issues appeared in
the Pilot and Beacon during the past two weeks. A case was made that the local
representatives in the NC General Assembly and/or county commissioners should
be voted out of office in November because they continue to make decisions in
favor of developers rather than for citizens like you and me.
   Your time limit will not allow me to read the recent letter but I will read
one of my letters written in 2012. The letter was written one year after me
leaving the Brunswick County Planning Board. Let me make a public confession
before reading the letter. Those who know me will verify that I am a diehard
Democrat. However, I voted for the Republican Chairman of the Board of
Commissioners during a critical period when we were updating a important
document the UDO If you want to know his name, check the front of the
Administrative building the next time that you go the County Complex.
Sometimes, you have to put other things like overdevelopment before party
loyalty. I want to read the letter I wrote to the local papers in 2012. There
has been tremendous growth I the Southport area during my 35 years as a citizen
of the waterfront town. I moved here in 1976 which means I have been here for
48years. I was mystified that the populations has been relatively stable over
three decades I did not understand why the town failed to fill several pot
holes on the road beside an abandoned drug store near the main street. As a
deacon of a local church I did not understand why the fore department started
to charge for inspections recently and just two years they provided the
services free of charge. The mystery was solved when I found the city limit
signs were actually placed at points that would define the center of a town or
city. There are freeloading city services when developers built subdivisions
just outside of the city limits. The residence of these subdivisions still have
some city services without the tax bill. State legislatures have an opportunity
to do the right thing by not changing the appeals court decision supporting the
annexations of Southport and other citys. Two of the local legislatures they
sided with the developers and that's why the city limits are as they are. With
these changes they would be fair to everyone. There would be taxation with
representation. Currently they are getting services and representation without
taxation. New developments should pay city taxes.
E.   Approval of Agenda
   Alderman Carroll made a motion to the Approval of the Agenda. Alderman Davis
seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.
F.   Approval of the Consent Agenda
   Alderman Carroll made a motion to the Approval of the Consent Agenda.
Alderman Lai seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.
   1.   Minutes of the Regular Board of Aldermen Meeting June 13, 2024
   2.   Minutes of the Special Budget Meeting June 17, 2024
   3.   Minutes of the Special Budget Meeting June 21, 2024
   4.   Minutes of the Special Board of Aldermen Meeting June 26, 2024
   5.   Minutes of the Regular Board of Aldermen Meeting July 11, 2024
   6.   Closed Session Minutes June 13, 2024 (Sealed)
   7.   Set a Public Hearing: Section 3.19 Signs
   8.   Set a Public Hearing: Section 3.19.C.18 Political Signs
G.   Public Hearings
   1.   Public Hearing: UDO Amendment Section 4.14 Open Space (Mo Meehan)
   Alderman Carroll made a motion to open the Public Hearing. Alderman Lai
seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.
   City planner Mo Meehan gave a presentation on the proposed UDO amendment.
The amendment would change the required lot size from 20 to 5 triggering the
open space and recreation requirements. The amendment would also increase the
multiplier for the amount of land required to be dedicated to open spaces.
   Aldermen Mosteller asked if they considered storm water ponds. City Planner
Meehan stated they did not they just looked at wetlands.
   Aldermen Davis asked what they proceed to add that would be. City Planner
Meehan stated the board has the ability to add that if the board would like.
   Alderman Davis made motion to include storm water ponds as part of the
amendment. Aldermen Mosteller seconded the motion. Aldermen Davis withdrew the
motion as the consensus of the board was to have staff bring back that change.
   2.   Public Hearing: UDO Amendment Sections 3.17 & 3.14 Right of Ways (Mo
Meehan)
   City Planner Meehan presented the proposed UDO amendment. The proposed
amendment allows for the installation of turf grass. It would also allow
residentially zoned property owners to improve two parking spaces and the
parking shall remain open to the public. The parking request shall be reviewed
by the appropriate City staff members and vegetation shall be permitted within
ten feet of the base of a City tree.
   Mayor Pro-Tem Kelley made a motion to close the Public Hearing. Alderman Lai
seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.
H.   Agenda
   1.   Discussion of Relinquishment of ET J-lmpacts (Stuart Turille, Jr. and
Mo Meehan)
   City Manager Stuart Turi lie Jr. gave a presentation on the effects that the
loss of the ET J would have on the City. The City Manager spoke to the effects
that the loss of the ET J would have in relation to financial and workload
impacts. The city will not lose any sales tax or ad valorem tax. ABC revenue
will also not be affected by the change. The percentage of ET J workload
inspections to total inspections is 8% or less. 7% of total revenues from
inspections and permitting comes from the ET J.
   There are about 500 properties within the City limits that has the potential
to be developed. There are several approved subdivisions in the City limit that
will require permitting and inspection. Osprey landing 196 units, The waters
(formerly Oakton) 4 units, Jonas creek 31 units, Price's Creek 48 units, Turtle
Bay 100 units.
   2.   Discussion of Tree Clearing at Oakton (Mo Meehan)
   City Planner Meehan presented on the tree clearing that had taken place at
the Waters formerly Oakton subdivision. The developers will be required to
replant trees as show in their submitted plans after development has occurred.
   Aldermen Spencer stated this area was a tree farm and have traditionally
been pine trees.
   Aldermen Davis stated she was appreciative of the presentation as she has
heard from community members concerned with the trees being cut down. The more
restrictive tree ordinance went into effect after they submitted their
development plans.
   Mayor Alt asked if the circles on the site plan were the trees that were
going to be replanted. City Planner Meehan stated that is correct. Mayor Alt
asked staff to make sure Bob from the State Port Pilot was aware of this
information.
   3.   Update on Bed and Breakfast Events Permit (Mo Meehan)
   City Planner Meehan stated that the Board of Adjustment in July heard a
special use permit request for a bed and breakfast. The application requested
special events be allowed at the bed and breakfast. The Board of Adjustment
granted the bed and breakfast special use permit and request the special events
portion of the request be brought back.
   Aldermen Carroll stated it was insane that the prior bed and breakfast was
allowed to have events since it was in a residential neighborhood.
   Aldermen Mosteller stated she didn't know how they should have been granted
the ability to hold events that se appreciated there are only three conditions
for bed and breakfast.
   Aldermen Mosteller asked City Attorney Herman if the City had standing to
present at the Board of Adjustment.
   Attorney Herman stated there is a good argument you would have standing.
   Aldermen Spencer stated the Board of Adjustment had legal representation at
their meeting. There are currently no criteria for what an event is.
   Aldermen Spencer Asked fire chief Drew if it was legal to have 100 people at
a birthday party at a house.
   Chief Drew stated you cannot enforce the fire code on a residential
property.
   Aldermen Davis is concerned with having these type of events in a
residential neighborhood.
   Mayor Pro-Tern Kelley stated she has a conflict and cannot contribute.
   Alderman Mosteller made a motion to recognize Aldermen Kelley's conflict of
interest and excuse her from voting on the matter. Alderman Carroll seconded
the motion. Mayor Pro-Tem Kelley stated her conflict was owning a hotel in the
City. All ayes. Motion carried.
   Alderman Davis made a motion to have staff draft a UDO amendment concerning
bed and breakfast for what events would be allowed or not and any limitation
around them. Alderman Mosteller seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.
   Alderman Carroll stated he would like to see the board have representation
at the Board of Adjustment.
   Mayor Alt stated he agreed and encouraged the planning board and board of
adjustment to take additional training.
   City Attorney Herman stated he can have a training for those board members.
   4.   Clarification on Right-of-Way Ordinance Enforcement (Mo Meehan)
   City Planner presented on clarification needed on the enforcement of the
right of way ordinance.
   Alderman Davis made a motion to appoint an ad hoc committee to work through
the changes that were needed in the right of way ordinance. Mayor Pro-Tem
Kelley seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried.
   Mayor Alt asked for those that wanted to serve on the ad hoc committee. It
was determined Aldermen Mosteller, Davis and Lai would serve on the committee.
   5.   Boards and Committees Ordinance Discussion and Direction
   City Clerk Noah Saldo presented options for the Board to consider as various
City Boards have ET J representation. With the ET J being taken those members
will no longer serve.
   Mayor Pro-Tem Kelley made a motion instruct staff that all boards and
committee voting members shall be residents of the City limits except for the
beautification and cemetery committee. Alderman Davis seconded the motion. All
ayes. Motion carried.
I.   Manager's Report
   ETJ Update:
   The County Planning Board Public Hearing occurred on August 12 where the
following concerns were presented:
   Consider the impact of the zoning differences so that the former ET J's new
zoning can be compatible with the density and uses that those residents have
now and desire currently Quality of life & Property Values for former ET J
owners
   Safety for emergency evacuations
   Maintain the commercial appeal of downtown Southport with a N. Howe Street
corridor overlay
   Preservation of the character of historic downtown Southport.
   19 citizens spoke, along with Alderman Mosteller, as a citizen, and myself.
Planning Board Chair Hodgin and Planning Board Member Fiss spoke as citizens of
the county. Ms. Meehan represented Planning Department. My talk was about 5
minutes.
   • Decision Reached by the County Planning Board:
   The zoning proposed by the County was approved, with two members stating
openly that they regretted moving so quickly due to the 60 day limits, and
wanted to work with City Staff on a N. Howe St. corridor overlay and UDO
amendments for compatible zoning uses.
   • Path Forward:
   While some folks may wish to appeal, the door is open for us to work with
the County Planning Board on ongoing projects, the N. Howe Street corridor
overlay, and possible UDO amendments.
   Inclusive park/regional location update:
   Regional managers from Brunswick County, Oak Island, Caswell Beach, Boiling
Springs Lake and Bald Head Island met and identified four options, all outside
of Southport. However, we agreed to give the Managers time to research the
sites, perform due diligence and consultation with respective Boards before
releasing the actual sites. I will notify you once all are Managers good with
releasing the options.
   Assistant City Manager Taking a New Position in VA and New City Clerk:
   • The new Clerk, Mr. Noah Saldo began August 12, is here tonight.
   • It was my pleasure to work with Ms. Dutton, who accepted a new position in
VA. I wish to recognize her commitment and dedication, her significant impact
on this organization and City, which I have seen since my arrival. I know she
will have a similar impact in her next position in Virginia, so please wish her
well.
J.   Mayor's Report
   Mayor Alt stated he ad Aldermen Kelley attend County Board of commissioners
meeting. NC DOT gave a presentation on road closure on hwy 133 to take place
October 28 - August 2025 there are five problem area this addresses two. There
is a company that gave briefing to commissioners on grant moneys in NC for
storm water. There is 724 million available, the Governor has announced several
grants to local governments. The Mayor will give the City Manager the
information to look into. The Mayor Commended the staff during the storm as he
attended the daily storm briefings.
K.   Board Comments
   Aldermen Spencer stated how do we look at right of way now do we need to
interact with county they will have to deal with these issues.
   Mayor Pro-Tern Kelley stated herself and Aldermen Spencer and attended the
electro city conference in Asheville and it was eye opening experience learn
more and interact with other municipalities.
   Aldermen Davis stated there was social media confusion as the Southport
Indiana Mayor fired the police chief as some thought it was here. Our mayor
doesn't fire staff. welcome new City Clerk Noah.
   Aldermen Mosteller stated Southport runs on volunteers quality life would
not be what it is without them.
L. Closed Session NCGS 143-318.11
   Mayor Pro-Tem Kelley made a motion to go into closed session pursuant to
NCGS 143-318.11
   (6) To consider the qualifications, competence, performance, character,
fitness, conditions of appointment, or conditions of initial employment of an
individual public officer or employee or prospective public officer or
employee; or to hear or investigate a complaint, charge, or grievance by or
against an individual public officer or employee. General personnel policy
issues may not be considered in a closed session. A public body may not
consider the qualifications, competence, performance, character, fitness,
appointment, or removal of a member of the public body or another body and may
not consider or fill a vacancy among its own membership except in an open
meeting. Final action making an appointment or discharge or removal by a public
body having final authority for the appointment or discharge, or removal shall
be taken in an open meeting.
   (3) To consult with an attorney employed or retained by the public body in
order to preserve the attorney-client privilege between the attorney and the
public body, which privilege is hereby acknowledged. General policy matters may
not be discussed in a closed session and nothing herein shall be construed to
permit a public body to close a meeting that otherwise, would be open merely
because an attorney employed or retained by the public body is a participant.
The public body may consider and give instructions to an attorney concerning
the handling or settlement of a claim, judicial action, mediation, arbitration,
or administrative procedure.
   (5) To establish, or to instruct the public body's staff or negotiating
agents concerning the position to be taken by or on behalf of the public body
in negotiating (i) the price and other material terms of a contract or proposed
contract for the acquisition of real property by purchase, option, exchange, or
lease; or (ii) the amount of compensation and other material terms of an
employment contract or proposed employment contract.
   Alderman Mosteller seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried. The board
entered closed session at 8:24 PM
   Mayor Pro-Tem Kelley made a motion to come out of closed session. Alderman
Spencer seconded the motion. All ayes. Motion carried. The board was back in
open session at 9:52 PM
M.   Adjourn
___________________________________
Rebecca Kelley
Mayor Pro-Tem
                              ___________________________________
                              Noah Saldo
                              City Clerk
 
September 11, 2024
SPECIAL JOINT MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN & PARKS AND RECREATION COMMITTEE SPECIAL JOINT MEETING
September 11, 2024                                 223 E. BAY STREET
SOUTHPORT, N.C.                                    6:00 PM
 
Minutes
Present: Mayor Pro-
Tern Rebbeca Kelley, Aldermen Karen Mosteller, Robert Carroll, Frank Lai, Marc
Spencer.
Parks and Recreation Members Present:
 Karen Boyan, Emma Thomas, Stephanie Jackson, Roberta Dosher.
Absent: Mayor Rich Alt, Aldermen Lowe Davis.
Staff Present: City Manager
Stuart Turille, City Clerk Noah Saldo, Police Chief Todd Coring, Fire Chief
Charles Drew, Parks and Recreation Director Heather Hemphill, City Engineer Tom
Zilinek, Public Information Officer ChyAnn Ketchum.
A.   Call to Order
Mayor Pro-Tern Kelley called the meeting to order at 6:00 P.M.
B.   Invocation
Fire Chief Charles Drew led the invocation.
C.    Pledge of Allegiance
Mayor Pro-Tern Kelley led the Pledge of Allegiance.
D.    Approval of Agenda
Aldermen Mosteller made a motion to approve the agenda as presented,
seconded by Aldermen Lai. Unanimous Vote; Motion carried.
Mayor Pro-Tern Kelley read the ethics statement.
E.    Special Recognition
1.   Dr. Jim Herstine presentation on Franklin Square Park
FRANKLIN SQUARE PARK
3. ACKNOWLEDGED THAT THE SOLUTION WAS SOMEWHERE BETWEEN THE TWO (2)
POLAR OPPOSITION OPINIONS
Mayor Pro-Tern Kelley recognized Dr.Herstine who give the following
presentation:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2941.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2949.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2958.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2968.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2979.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2991.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3004.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3018.jpg]
F.    Aldermen and Park and Recreation Committee Questions and Comments
Aldermen Lai asked what the time frame for completion would
be once the Aldermen voted for a project or option. Dr. Herstine stated the
plans were in phases and could take several years to complete.
Aldermen Spencer asked about how big of an area the park is. Dr. Herstine
stated that Franklin Square is within the four roads: Atlantic, Nash, Howe, and
West. The bulk of the park is from Howe Street down to Atlantic the Baptist
Church, with the art Gallery as the end line. Aldermen Spencer
stated it was a good suggestion to have the area surveyed to be clear of the
property lines.
Aldermen Spencer stated that without controlling the park's entrances
and exits, you will never be able to control the quality of the park. Aldermen
Spencer said he believes there is a need to encapsulate whatever Franklin
Square Park is so we can control the entrance and exit in the mornings and
evenings. Encapsulating the park would allow us to monetize its usage, and the
money could be put back into its maintenance.
City Manager Turille asked Dr. Herstine to elaborate on the 30 or 40 organized
events that could be held there while protecting the park's beauty
and not damaging the habitat. Dr. Herstine stated that the farmers market would
be fine using the outdoor basketball court. I'm recommending that any other
vendor-type operation not be in Franklin Square Park. Weddings, Christmas
Eve Service, and Easter Egg hunts would be fine to hold in the park. City
Manager Turille stated that the park will be maintained.
Mayor Pro-Tern Kelley asked when the full report would be available.
Dr. Herstine said his intention is for the Parks and Recreation Committee to
look at the report first and then make a recommendation to the Board
of Aldermen.
Aldermen Mosteller stated that budget considerations would also be needed,
as this year's budget was for tree maintenance within the park.
She was in favor of giving the Parks and Recreation Committee the time they
needed to review the report and make a recommendation without giving them a
deadline.
Dr. Herstine stated that he considered the needs of budgeting
and funding in his phased approach within his recommendations.
Mayor Pro-Tern Kelley thanked Dr. Herstine for his presentation
and said she looked forward to seeing the full report
go before the Parks and Recreation Committee.
She stated that Franklin Square Park is extremely important to the City of
Southport and its citizens.
City Manager Turille asked for a review of the next steps within the process.
Mayor Pro-Tern Kelley stated that Dr. Herstine's full report would be forwarded
to the Parks and Recreation Committee, which would make
a recommendation to the Board of Aldermen for a final decision. There will also
be conversations within the budget to make the necessary commitments
within the plan. Mayor Pro-Tern Kelley stated that everyone wants to make sure
it's done properly and with the future in mind, not just what is needed right
now.
A.   Adjourn
Mayor Pro-Tern Kelley declared the meeting adjourned at 6:30PM.
Rich Alt
Mayor
Noah Saldo
City Clerk
September 12, 2024
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN  REGULAR MEETING
September 12, 2024223 E. BAY STREET
SOUTHPORT, N.C.    6:00 PM
 
Minutes
Present: Mayor Pro Tern Rebecca Kelley, Alderman Karen Mosteller, Lowe Davis
(Via Telepone), Robert Carroll, Frank Lai, and Mark Spencer.
Absent: Mayor Rich Alt
Staff: City Manager Stuart Turille Jr., City Clerk Noah Saldo, Public
Information Officer ChyAnn Ketchum, Police Chief Todd Coring, Director of
Community Relations Allayna Dail, City Attorney Brady Herman.
A.   Mayor Pro-Tern Kelley called the meeting to order at 6:00 PM.
B.   Police Chief Coring gave the invocation.
C.   Police Chief Coring led the Pledge of Allegiance.
D.   Public Comment
Aldermen Spencer made a motion to go into public comment second
by Alderman Mosteller.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
1.   Lora Sharkey, 432 Gades Trail, is a member of the friends of the Maritime
Museum board directors. She would like to tell everyone about their fundraiser
concert on the lawn Thursday
night. It is a very important function for the Maritime Museum,
and that the friend's group provides the operating funds for that building's
maintenance inside and out of it and money for the exhibits that go on and
other special programs, so please consider coming to the concert the back porch
rockers who are a great generous group of people are providing the music
it's from 5:00 to 7:00 and we will also be selling raffle tickets
2.   City Clerk Noah Saldo read the following letter received from Jason
Robbins. Dear Mayor and Aldermen, City Manager, City Clerk, and City Attorney:
As a Southport voter, business operator, and resident (at 504-8 West Brunswick
Street), I write in regard to tonight's Board of Aldermen Meeting Closed
Session agenda item for discussion of real estate negotiation.
I request that the public be informed in tonight's public meeting,
prior to the Closed Session, of: the location of the property,
name(s) of the property owner(s); and purpose of negotiating about the property
Please contact me with any questions. Thank you,
Jason Robbins
3.   City Clerk Noah Saldo read the following letter from Director
of Community Relations Allayna Dail. Phil Fravel, a cherished and long-time
volunteer in our community, passed away on September 10, 2024. Phil's
contributions to Southport were immense-he played an integral role at the
Visitors Center and served as a dedicated board member of the Southport
Historical Society. Earlier this year, in April, Phil was honored
with the Governor's Award for Lifetime Volunteerism, a well-deserved
recognition for his unwavering commitment to Southport. His extraordinary
spirit and dedication made a lasting impact on Southport and the wider
community.
Phil was truly an asset to us all, and he will be profoundly missed.
Our thoughts are with his family and all who had the privilege of knowing him.
Aldermen Mosteller made a motion to move out of public comment seconded
by Aldermen Lai. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
E.   Approval of Agenda
Mayor Pro-Tern Kelley read the ethics statement.
Aldermen Spencer made a motion to approve the agenda as presented seconded by Aldermen
Mosteller.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
F.   Approval of the Consent Agenda
1.   Budget Amendment Fire Department Grant for Purchase of Confined Space
Rescue
2.   Community Building Personnel Budget Amendment
3.   Minutes of the Regular Board of Aldermen Meeting August 5, 2024
4.   Minutes of the Special Board of Aldermen Meeting August 20, 2024
5.   Tree mitigation of Franklin Square Park
Aldermen Spencer made a motion to approve the consent agenda as presented,
seconded by Aldermen Mosteller. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
G.   Public Hearings
1.   Section 3.19 of the Unified Development Ordinance Amendment
City Planner Maureen Meehan presented the proposed amendment.
The proposed changes
would provide clarifications, changes to the nonresidential uses in residential zoning districts,
projection signs, free-standing signs removed from CBD, uniformed
color pallet multi-tenant buildings, window signs, EMC signs only allowed
on municipal property, inflatable signs prohibited
in CBD and BO zoning districts, illumination- limit size of internally
lit signs to 6SF, prohibits interference with drivers or traffic signs, Neon/
LED signs are prohibited in windows or exterior signs, murals.
Aldermen Spencer made a motion to move into the public hearing, seconded by Aldermen
Mosteller.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
Aldermen Spencer made a motion
to close the public hearing, seconded by Aldermen Carroll.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
Aldermen Mosteller asked if the nonresidential uses in residential zoning districts signs are mostly
for churches. City Planner Meehan stated that it would include churches,
daycare centers, and
others like health clubs and golf courses. Home occupation businesses
cannot have any signage. Mayor Pro-Tern Kelley asked for clarification
on the inflatable signs. City Planner Meehan stated that the inflatable signs
are the ones that dance around.
2.   Section 3.19.C.18 Political Signs Unified Development Ordinance Amendment
City Planner Meehan gave a presentation on the proposed change. This amendment
was reviewed by the City Attorney and recommended by the Planning Board in
response to a court case. The changes will allow for multiple political signs
no more than nine square feet and one large sign not to exceed thirty-two
square feet.
Aldermen Spencer made a motion to move into the public hearing, seconded by Aldermen
Mosteller.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
Aldermen Mosteller stated allowing the signs to be placed ninety days
prior to the election was three months and a long time. She asked the City
Attorney if that was part of the court decision.
City Attorney Herman stated he believes it came from what the state allows but
would defer to staff. City Planner Meehan stated that was correct and staff
also looked at other jurisdiction that had this similar language in their
ordinances.
Aldermen Spencer stated the nine square feet allowance bothered him. He asked
if each candidate could have a nine square foot sign. City Planner Meehan
stated yes they could.
Aldermen Mosteller made a motion to adopt the UDO amendment as presented
and the consistency statement favoring the change. Aldermen Davis seconded
the motion, the motion carried 5-1 with Aldermen Spencer voting no.
Aldermen Spencer made a motion to come out of the public hearing, seconded by Aldermen
Lai.
Unanimous Vote; Motion carried.
H.   Agenda
1.   Unified Development Ordinance Amendment to Section 4.14 Recreation and Open
Space
City Planner Maureen Meehan presented the UDO amendment. The public hearing for
this item was held at the last Aldermen's meeting. The changes would
reduce the number of lots from 20 to 5, which would trigger the recreation and
open space provisions. The required dedicated open space requirement
would not include 404 wetlands or stormwater collection
facilities. The proposed changes would increase the multiplier
for recreation and open space for R-10 and R-20 zoning districts.
Aldermen
Kelley asked how developments that had been submitted but not permitted be
affected by these changes.
City Planner Meehan stated that if the development had been approved
with open space requirements, they would not be affected, just those going
forward.
Aldermen Kelley asked if anything approved at the county level and then annexed
into the city would still be the county's zoning, not the city's.
City Planner Meehan stated that is correct.
Aldermen Mosteller made a motion to adopt the UDO amendment and the consistency
statement favoring the change. Seconded by Aldermen Carroll. Unanimous
vote; Motion Carried.
2.   State Transportation Improvement Program (STIP) 2026-2035 Division Needs
Project Prioritization
Sam Boswell Regional Planner/RPO
Director for the Cape Fear Council of Governments gave the following
presentation.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3033.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3049.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3066.jpg]
3.   Turtle Bay Major Subdivision Preliminary Plat
City Planner Maureen Meehan presented the proposed major subdivision preliminary plat for Turtle Bay
development.
Aldermen Mosteller
spoke about the live oak trees in the plan. She is in favor of them doing another
tree analysis and coming back with that at a later date.
Aldermen Davis stated she is also concerned with the trees and is in favor
of going back to the developer to see what else they can do
Mayor Pro-
Tern asked if the mistaken calculation the city's mistake or the developer.
City Planner Meehan stated the developer had overcalculated.
Aldermen Mosteller made a motion to approve the Turtle Bay Preliminary Plat
with the condition the landscape mitigation not be approved with exception
of the mail kiosk landscaping and entrance landscaping being approved. Seconded
by Aldermen Davis, Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
4.   TextMyGov
Public Information Officer ChyAnn Ketchum gave a presentation on the new
TextMyGov system. TextMyGov is a two-way system, the user can receive text
notifications from the city, and users can text the city to ask questions. Ms.
Ketchum stated a new audio/visual streaming system would be implemented for
meetings in the near future.
5.   Up Your Arts -  Pole Banner Project
Director of Community Relations Allayna
Dail presented a request by Up Your Arts for a $2,000 contribution from
the city. These funds would be used to help fund the banners for the project.
Mayor Pro-Tern asked what the city previously contributed the previous years.
Ms. Dail stated $2,500 each year.
Mayor Pro-Tern asked if this had been budgeted for within this fiscal year.
Ms. Dail stated that the funds were not budgeted
for as the city did not anticipate needing to contribute. Mayor Pro-Tern Kelley
asked if there was a cost associated with hanging the banners.
Ms. Dail stated there would be no cost to hang the banners
as the public works department would do that.
Aldermen Mosteller asked if this could be viewed as a community asset. Ms. Dail
stated absolutely.
Aldermen Mosteller made a motion to approve the request to appropriate $2,000
from the general fund to support the Up Your Art pole banner project. Seconded
by Aldermen Carroll, Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
6.   Boards and Committees Ordinances
City Clerk Noah Saldo presented an update to the city code of ordinances
to amend Chapter 13 and Chapter 2 pertaining to the city's various boards
and committees. The proposed changes would
remove the Extraterritorial Jurisdiction (ETJ) language from the ordinances.
The proposed ordinance would increase the number of Planning Board and Board of
Adjustment members to seven (7) and one (1) alternate position,
all of which would be in City
residents. This change would allow for increased representation with the loss of the ETJ. The
second proposed
ordinance amends the language for the Forestry and Parks and Recreation
committees. It would remove the ETJ language and allow only inside City
members. The proposed changes would not affect the membership
of the Historic Preservation Commission, Cemetery Committee,
Beautification Committee or the ABC Board. Once the ordinance is passed,
the city will begin advertising the open positions and set interviews
for the positions, which will be brought to the Board of Aldermen for
appointment.
Aldermen Mosteller made a motion to approve the updated ordinances for Chapter
2 and Chapter 13 as presented.
Seconded by Aldermen Carroll, Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
I.   Committee Reports: 
Provided in the Agenda Packets.
J.    Manager's Report
City Manager Turille presented the following report.
1.   ETJ Update:
•   Staff are coordinating the transfer of open permits to the County.
All new permit applications are directed to the County.
•   City staff and our CFCOG consultant met with County Planning
Staff to propose a North Howe Street overlay zone for properties
now in the county's jurisdiction, as suggested by the County Planning Board.
•   The goal is to preserve the unique characteristics of the City's entrance
corridor with a transition zone between County and City zoning, using our
zoning standards.
2.   Inclusive park/regional location update:
•   Regional managers identified four options, all outside of Southport.
Managers requested time to
research the sites, perform due diligence and consult with their respective
Boards, before releasing the actual sites.
•   Managers meet October 16, after which I will have more information to share on the four
sites.
•   We scheduled public meeting September
30 for additional public input, but we may want to postpone until after the
October meeting, when I have more information on the four sites.
3.   Southport Tax Dollars Returned Back to City Businesses: an interesting
statistic:
Finance reports that the City returned $988,962 to local businesses
last fiscal year with annual purchase orders, contributing nearly $1 million to
local businesses/economy. County-wide we contribute an additional
$2.3 million to area businesses. Therefore, we are a key contributor
to the local economy.
4.   Old Courthouse Upgrade:
•   the Environmental Abatement work begins September 30, completed in
December.
•   A staging area for contractor parking area will be between
Old City Hall and Nash Street, and will be fenced off. Fencing starts September
23 and will remain to completion.
•   A City message board will be on site for notification as well as on social
media.
•   A Structural Review of the property is expected shortly.
5.   Public Works Department and Stormwater:
Mr. Stanley's crews are out actively seeking storm drainage improvement
opportunities, fixing most recently Willis & E. Moore St., E. 8th & Atlantic
Ave. , and E. Owens and Atlantic Ave., with work completed where we had some
flood reports after TS Debby.
Good job Tom & staff!
Public Information Officer ChyAnn Ketchum gave an update on the installation
of the riew audio/visuar equipment
in the community building and Indian Trail. This new technology
will also allow better remote access for board members or remote presentations.
K.    Staff Reports: 
Provided in the Agenda Packets
L.    Board Comments
Aldermen Lai stated there will be an ABC Board meeting next week.
Aldermen Spencer attended the 9/11 memorial yesterday, and the new display with
the images of the first responders stuck with him. These are the heroes of the
Country. Yesterday, the Aldermen had the Franklin Square Park meeting; he
believes some things with the park still need to be addressed. The park
is the whole
block on one parcel, but we have only been talking about one small piece. In order
to go on with the future of the park we need to control the usage of the park.
He commended
Tom Stanley and his public works crew for their efforts around storm drainage.
He pointed out his friend and mail carrier had passed away.
Aldermen Mosteller stated that the Beatification Committee
had been out working, and the Forestry Committee would be putting together
a list of trees they would
plant. She looks forward to getting input from the Parks and Recreation Committee
regarding Franklin Square Park.
Aldermen Davis stated the Parks and Recreation Committee would be meeting
next Tuesday in the Parks and Recreation Building.
Mayor Pro-Tern Kelley stated she and the Mayor attended the RPO meeting
three weeks ago. In the meeting,
they went over the prioritization for the transportation projects.
She also attended the County Planning Board meeting this past Monday. They
heard cases related to the former Southport ETJ. There were 44 appeals
from the former ETJ, but only three of those had standing and will be heard
at an upcoming County Commissioners meeting. She attended the 9/11 memorial
yesterday, which was beautifully done. She thanked
the Police and Fire departments.
M.   Closed Session NCGS 143-318.11
Aldermen Spen er made a motion to go into closed session pursuant to NCGS 143-
318.11 (3,4,5) regarding number 5 it is related to a potential
property acquisition at 1403 N  Howe St the owner is SCI Funeral Services LLC
for an unknown purpose.
Seconded by Aldermen Carroll, Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried. 7:33 PM
Aldermen
Carrol made a motion to close the close session and reenter the regular meeting.
Seconded by Aldermen Spencer. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried. 8:33 PM
N.   Adjourn
Aldermen Spencer made a motion to adjourn. Seconded by Aldermen Mosteller. Unanimous Vote;
Motion Carried. 8:33 PM
Rich Alt Mayor
Noah Saldo City Clerk
October 7, 2024
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING
October 7, 2024   223 E. BAY STREET
SOUTHPORT, N.C.   9:00 AM
 
Minutes
Present: Mayor Rich Alt, Mayor Pro-Tern Rebecca Kelley, Aldermen Karen
Mosteller, Lowe Davis, Robert Carroll, Frank Lai, and Marc spencer.
Staff: City Manager Stuart Turille, City Clerk Noah Saldo, Public Information
Officer ChyAnn Ketchum, Fire Chief Charles Drew, Parks and Recreation Director
Heather Hemphill, Energy Manager
Larry Ditton, Planning Services Director Maureen Meehan, City Engineers Bob
Jarvis and Tom Zilinek, Deputy Fire Marshal Brian Kolhoff.
A.   Mayor Alt called the meeting to order at 9:00 AM.
B.   The invocation was given by Aldermen Reverend Davis.
C.   Mayor Alt led the Pledge of Allegiance.
D.   No one was signed up for public comment.
E.   Approval of Agenda
A motion was made by Aldermen Carroll to remove item F. 5 Electric Vehicle
Charging Station Proposal to allow for further work on the item. Seconded by
Aldermen Mosteller.
Aldermen Davis asked what further work was needed.
Aldermen Carroll stated in his opinion they were not the correct chargers or
proposed in the correct location.
Mayor Alt stated there were also some questions regarding the figures in the
proposal.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
Mayor Pro-Tern Kelley made a motion to approve the agenda as amended, seconded
by Aldermen Carroll.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
F.   Agenda
1.   Follow-Up Discussion on RPO projects, process and timetable
Planning Services Director Maureen Meehan gave a presentation on the Rural
Planning Organizations Projects, and timetable. Ms. Meehan stated that the RPO
in partnership with the NC Department of Transportation identify and prioritize
local transportation projects within our division.
Ms. Meehan stated this takes place every two years with the current project
prioritization from 2026-2035 which local governments submitted in 2022-2023.
Mayor Alt stated that there will be upcoming meetings with regional leaders to
vote on the prioritization of projects. He also stated that funding is limited
for any projects that may be prioritized.
Aldermen Davis asked that whatever projects are approved in this cycle would
likely not get funding for years.
Ms. Meehan stated that is correct there are many different timetables and steps
even outside of the funding piece.
Aldermen Davis stated she thought she heard it could take as much as 10 years.
Ms. Meehan stated it depended on the scale of the project.
Mayor Alt stated some projects could take that long because of financing and
there are some large projects that tend to get more money. There are small
projects around our region that also need funding. Mayor Pro-Tern Kelley stated
the 211 widening project is still on the list to be funded.
Mayor Alt stated the RPO is creating a legislative package with one item being
evacuation route having more points in the prioritization process.
Aldermen Mosteller pointed out when we were able to submit projects the city
did. Aldermen Lai stated this is mainly a wish list of projects which may or
may not come.
Aldermen Spencer stated he is going to continue to talk about these projects as
we can't wait years with the growth in Southport.
2.   Update on the Shoreline Stabilization Project
City Engineer Bob Jarvis gave the following presentation on the Shoreline
Stabilization Project:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3112.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3114.png]
 
Aldermen Carroll asked about the emergency repair infrastructure for phase one.
Mr. Jarvis stated he expects the emergency repairs to be removed and reused.
Mayor Alt asked if the agency's that the city will need to work with
if that process is linear.
Mr. Jarvis stated that the work can be done simultaneously.
Aldermen Mosteller asked if the $5 Million budget would pay for all three
phases or just the first phase. Mr. Jarvis stated the consultants
imagined all three phases for just over $5 Million, there is a construction
contingency built into the budget depending on the bid process.
Aldermen Spencer asked if the property
owned by private residence would allow for anything to be built on those
sections.
Mr. Jarvis stated No the easements will be very specific to this project.
3.   Stormwater Discussion
City Engineer Tom Zilinek gave a presentation on the city stormwater system.
Mr. Zilinek stated during the Potential Tropical Storm #8 the stormwater system
did not fail. Mr. Zilinek stated that the system was inundated with water
beyond the system capacity. The storm delivered 20
inches of rain in 12 hours. During Florence
there was 27 inches of rain over four days, and during Debby there was
10 inches over three days. The system is designed to handle a 25 year storm PTC
#8 was a 1,000-year storm. Mr. Zilinek stated the city is taking several
steps going forward related to the stormwater system. Mr. Zilinek
stated that the city had received a grant from Golden Leaf to map and
model the stormwater system and make recommendations for improvements. Many
current stormwater pipes are only rated for a two-year storm. The public works
department have identified areas of improvement
which they have fixed to help the system. Mr. Zilinek is working with public
works to come up with a maintenance plan for the stormwater
system. Once the stormwater mapping plan is completed
the city will begin looking for grants and other funding sources to implement
the recommended improvements.
Mr. Zilinek stated that there could also be some improvements
made to the city's unified development ordinance (UDO) to help with the system
going forward.
Mayor Pro-Tern
Kelley stated having public works be able to take care of some of these maintenance
issues will have a great impact on the system.
Aldermen Davis asked if Mr. Zilinek is going to be bringing
furth recommended changes the UDO.
Mr. Zilinek stated that he is currently working with the planning department to draft these
changes.
Aldermen Mosteller asked if the city was able to have stricter stormwater
pond regulations than is required by the state.
Mr. Zilinek stated yes, that currently in the UDO it states developers
must follow the city's guidelines. Aldermen Davis asked if stormwater ponds
need to be bigger or deeper.
Mr. Zilinek stated it could be a combination of things.
Aldermen Lai asked if the city could require additional stormwater ponds.
Mr. Zilinek states we couldn't require additional ponds for past developments but could going
forward.
Aldermen Davis asked if there was an idea of how many retention ponds
in the city had been a problem during the storm.
Mr. Zilinek stated he was not aware of the number,
but most were likely due to the design standards of a 50-year storm verses the
1,000 year storm we had.
Aldermen Spencer asked if a city takes over a subdivision and has a stormwater
system could the city tie into developments stormwater system.
Mr. Zilinek stated its something we would need an attorneys
opinion because the endpoint is not the city's responsibility.
Aldermen Spencer stated he believes the system did fail.
Mr. Zilinek stated when a system
fails it blows out, the city system did not blow out it has design defects.
Mayor Pro-Tern Kelley asked if properties in the former ETJ annexed
into the city, would the city have any impact on their development.
Mr. Zilinek stated if they are annexing into the city, staff would be reviewing
those plans. If they do not annex the city will not have influence.
Aldermen Carroll stated some developments
would be a phased annexation where permits would be handled by the county.
Mr. Zilinek stated there would need to be a board policy to say the developer
would need to comply with the city stormwater requirements.
Mayor Alt asked if the former ETJ is built with higher density
can the city determine the flow of water from those properties to see what
changes the city system might need.
Mr. Zilinek stated the former ETJ was not mapped in this recent stormwater
project, but modeling could be done based on any funding received.
Mayor Alt asked since developers are looking to move quickly
on the former ETJ properties how can the city move quicker on the city side.
Mr. Zilinek stated the new modeling will allow for quicker response
and the creeks go under state roads which we can show needs improvements
and have hydrology done for future development.
Mayor Alt asked the city manager
to look into these issues and the cost associated with it and the timeline.
Aldermen Mosteller asked about infill housing and water going onto neighboring properties.
Mr. Zilinek stated the city does not currently have any regulations around
that.
Aldermen Davis asked if the city could out law building on a slab. Mr. Zilinek
stated he wasn't aware if the city could do that or not.
City Manager Turille stated there was going to be a after storm assessment
to determine what changes the city might make.
4.   Update on FEMA and possible assistance related to Potential Tropical Cyclone #8
Deputy Fire Marshal Brian Kolhoff gave the following presentation:
Two Types of FEMA Assistance
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3116.png]
 
Public Assistance
No Federal declaration as of 10 -7•24.. A state declaration
is in place ;at this time.
I met with NCDPS and FEMA on 10 -6-24 to review the damages to city bui!dings,
infrastructure, state bridges, and roads.
We submitted a total of $1,014,231.00 for physical damages.
Nothing further is needed from us until an official federal declaration has been
made.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3072_10250x210.jpg]
Detail of Submitted Damages for Assistance
Individual Assistance
Yevon Adams with NCDPSinformed us they filed for a federal declaration
on October 3 rJ.
The county Vi/ill head up and set up disas:
ter·response stations. These stations will assist residents and business owners with. correctly
filling out any needed documentation and will also have team members available
for inspections, etc.
The County is,waiting for the official federal dedaration.
Once they receive it, th.ey will develop a county
wide plan to establish several sites preferably at Senior Centers in each city and work with each city manager
to confirm locations. and assist with filling out the applications.
The stations' hours will be 8 -6 Monday through Friday and 10 -
1 Saturday. The NCDPS enforces these timefrnes.
 
This.is when businessowners can atso submit for economic relief.
Types of Loans for IA
Business Physical Disaster Loans-Up to $2 miUion is •va.iloble to
businesses to rep.:iir orrepl.1ce dl'.i.:ister-d:ima•
ed property, including re.:ilcs.tate. inventorie.s, supplie:
3. 1.uachinery, and equipment. Businessos of :
my size me eLigible. PrivJtc. noo-protit organizJtions such o.s ch.:
irities. chur.ches. p.rivJtc universities. etc., are.c1lso eligible. Loan amounts c3nnot exceed the verified uni.nsured dis:
ister.
Business Loan Ceiting-The S2.00Q·,OOOsta.tuto;y Limit for b.usincss lo.:
ms,npplic-s,to the combination of physic;:il and economic injury
mirigatioo, and'roti.n;:
incin3_. ltopplies.to oll disaster Loans too business and lts a.ffiliates tor each disaster. If a business is a m:
?jor source of•emplayment. theSBA h::is.the authority tow3ive the S2.000,000
statutory l.imit.
Economic Injury Disaster Loans (EIDL)- Working_ c.:ipital lo::ins up
to $2 million are 0v0:i!oble to he.lp srno.ll businesses, sm.Jll cJ2.tlcultur.:
il cooperotive.s, srun!l businesses engaged in oquncultur.e, and most private.
non prof!t org:iniznrions of all sizes meet their ordio,:i_ry:md oecessm:y tio
nci.Jl obUg'.ltions th::i.t connot be met as,a direct result of the disn:3ter.
Th se loans arc int er:ded to assist through tt1e di.s..1.ste( recovery period.
The actual amount.of e.nch loan is limited to the ecor.omtc injury determi.ned
by SBA, less business
interruption insurance, and other recoveries up to the administrativelending,limit. ElDL •ssi.stance is ::
ivail.1ble on!y to entities.and their owners who c ;:i:
nnot provide for. thei own recovery from oon -
govemment sources. as.detf?rmined by the U.S. Sm::1ll Business Administration.
Home DisasterLoans-Loans up to SS00,000 are ava!klbl to repair or repl.O:
ce disa.ster•d:imaged real estate and $100,000 to
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3081_6462x480.jpg]
Aldermen Davis asked if demands on FEMA and the state for western
part of the state will diminish the assistance the city can expect to receive.
Mr. Kolhoff stated
he does not expect that, the representatives he spoke with ensured
him the city's needs were important.
Mayor Alt asked about the damage requirements for assistance.
Mr. Kolhoff stated our region is near reaching these requirements. Aldermen
Mosteller asked about debris pickup.
City Manager Turille stated only five or six homes have roadside debris and those homes
could use their
insurance for debris pickup. If insurance is slow or they don't get it, then the city could
pick up the debris.
5.   Electric Vehicle Charging Station Proposal
6.   North Carolina Eastern Municipal Power Agency 
(NCEMPA) Board of Commissioners (BOC) Appointments
Energy Manager Larry Ditton stated the city needs a commissioner and a second alternate to
represent the city on the NCEMPA.
Mr. Ditton stated the city received one application for the commissioner
position Frank Petraglia who is well qualified.
Aldermen Mosteller stated normally there is an interview process for board appointments and would like
to table this item to allow for an interview.
Mayor Alt stated an interview could take place before the next Aldermen meeting
on Thursday. Aldermen Spencer stated he thought there was at least one other
applicant.
Mayor Alt asked staff to review the applications and bring back
the applications.
Aldermen Carroll asked if the interview for Mr. Petraglia could continue before Thursday.
Mayor Alt stated if staff can find out what happened with the applications
and report back to the board we can continue with the interview
before Thursday. Mayor Alt asked Aldermen Spencer and Aldermen Mosteller to
serve with him as the interview panel.
G.   Manager's Report
City Manager Turille gave the following report:
1.   PTC#8 Recovery Update:
•   We submitted a total FEMA reimbursement request for $2.8 million.
•   $2.6 million of this is for stormwater
repair and rehabilitation. This coincides with our renewed emphasis on
our stormwater system, including the stormwater map. However, to date, FEMA
will allow $1 million, pending further inspection of the stormwater system.
•   Traffic Delays: critical chokepoint is the Hwy 133/
87 intersection. As State roads, NCDOT is using their traffic solution
at the intersection and will be here Thursday to discuss the backup solution
and status of the Rte. 211 bridges. The Duke Canal bridge remains scheduled
for opening in eleven days, with Dutchman's Creek 10/31. Coordination occurring
with local employers on shift changes and Town Manager of Bald Head to ease
inputs onto Rte. 87.
•   Chief Coring and his Department performing excellent traffic management
guidance!
•   Downtown businesses:
the Mayor and Mayor Pro Tern, as have many of you, and myself have spoken with
many of our businesses and know that business is affected by the delays.
•   To assist:
 Scheduled Events continue. This weekend the Kingfisher tournament and Captain Charlie
kids fishing tournament were held, bringing folks downtown.
•   With the Individual assistance/
 SBA loans, federal assistance will be available soon.
•   Using social media announcing
that the downtown is open for business, is undamaged and actually more
accessible in the morning and evening with more parking available.
•   Reminder: last year, City government
spent $1 million into the local economy with direct purchase orders, as well as
our staff purchases in the downtown , as a City economic anchor.
2.   Comprehensive Plan Update:
the City's Planning Department, with Stewart Consultants,
presenting the Draft Comprehensive Plan
Vision, Goals, and Recommendations October 8, 2024, 5:30pm - 7:
30pm at the Community Building.
3.   Old Courthouse Renovation:
 begins the environmental abatement work today, completing in December. The
Structural analysis indicates that the building is structurally sound, however
improvements may be needed based on the future use of the building.
4.   Police Department and City Hall office relocation: with PD now relocated,
Administrative staff are now on the 2nd floor, with our more frequent customer
service departments -- Planning, Code Enforcement and Inspections on the first
floor.
5.   Public Works Department and Stormwater:
Mr. Stanley's crews installed
a new 12" storm pipe at 309 Herring Drive; two new catch basins at the
intersection of E. 8th street and Memory lane, and lowered an existing catch
basin box.
Aldermen Davis asked about what the format of the public comprehensive plan meeting tomorrow
be. Planning Services Director Meehan stated it would be a open house process,
there would be a breaf presentation at the beginning but people could come
and go during the open house.
Mayor Alt stated he was unimpressed with the last open house style meeting.
He asked if the Aldermen would receive a status report before the meeting.
Ms. Meehan stated the steering committee has been involved throughout the process and she could
get a packet of information together for the board.
Aldermen Davis asked if after the meeting tomorrow there would be clarity
on the next steps of the process.
Ms. Meehan stated the feedback that is gathered from the meeting will be taken
by the consultants to finalize the plan which would then go to the Planning
Board and the Board of Aldermen for final approval. Aldermen Mosteller stated
this meeting is a process meeting.
H.   Mayor's Comments
Mayor Alt had no comments
I.   Board Comments
Aldermen Carroll gave a reminder for the dinner with a fire fighter tomorrow.
He also asked for an update on the community building deck replacement.
City Manager Turille stated the deck replacement was not in the budget. Mr.
Zilinek stated public works is doing repairs as needed.
Mayor Pro-Tern Kelley stated she was pleased
with the staff's response to PTC #8. She also asked for support for local
businesses.
Aldermen Spencer stated the police department have done a great job
with the increased traffic. He stated he was concerned with the evacuation
routes. He also stated it was good to see progress being made at the old city
hall/courthouse property.
Aldermen Lai thanked
staff for their hard work during the storm. He stated Southport
is the front porch of Brunswick County.
Mayor Alt stated Chief Coring did a great job as the incident commander
during the storm. He stated it was important to do an after action report for
the storm.
J.   Closed Session NCGS 143-318.11
Aldermen Spencer made a motion to go into closed session pursuant to NCGS 143-
318.11 (5) (6). Seconded by Aldermen Lai. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried at 10:
57AM.
Aldermen Mosteller made a motion to come out of closed session. Seconded by Aldermen
Mosteller.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried at 11:51 AM.
K.   Adjourn
Aldermen Spencer made a motion to adjourn Seconded by Aldermen Carroll. Unanimous Vote; Motion
Carried at 11:51 AM.
Rich Alt
Rich Alt Mayor
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3084_3114x806.jpg]
 
Attest: Noah Saldo City Clerk
 
October 10, 2024
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING
October 10, 2024  223 E. BAY STREET
SOUTHPORT, N.C.   6:00 PM
 
Minutes
Present: Mayor Rich Alt, Mayor Pro-
Tern Rebecca Kelley, Aldermen Karen Mosteller, Lowe Davis, Robert Carroll, and
Marc Spencer.
Absent: Aldermen Frank Lai
Staff: City Manager Stuart Turille, City Clerk Noah Saldo, Public Information
Officer ChyAnn
Ketchum, Battalion Chief Ralph Treadway, Parks and Recreation Director Heather Hemphill, Planning
Services Director Maureen Meehan, City Engineer Tom Zilinek, Deputy Fire Marshal Brian Kolhoff, City
Planner Wendell Biddle, City Attorney Brady Herman and Alliance Code
Enforcement Officer
A.   Mayor Alt called the meeting to order at 6:01 PM.
B.   Rev. Jason Huebner from St. Peter Lutheran Church gave the invocation.
C.   Mayor Alt led the Pledge of Allegiance.
D.   Public Comment
Aldermen Spencer made a motion to go into public comment, seconded by Mayor Pro-
Tern Kelley.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
Angelo Collins, of 1107 N Caswell Ave- Mr. Collins stated his home was damaged
during the storm and he thanked city staff members Tori Deviney
and Maureen Meehan for their assistance during this
process and other needs. Mr. Collins thanked Aldermen Mosteller for her quick response to his needs
and has helped him.
 
Jeff Siebert, of 1163 N Caswell Ave- Mr. Siebert stated he is a part time
Southport and had damage to his property. He stated members
of city staff has been helpful to him, he also mentioned a Bible Verse in
Romans resident nothing but help. Romans 12 many parts but one body. Thank
city for help, saved
money to buy 2nd where it says we are many parts but one body. Mr. Siebert stated someone should look
at buildings on natural wetlands, he also stated people are speeding down his
street and there is a dumpster blocking drivers view of pedestrians.
 
Sue Hodgin, of 608 Cottage Point Way- She stated her Comments tonight are not
to be taken to be that of any board committee, commission or group I am a part
of. My comments tonight are around the
weather events of the past few weeks. Southport took on almost 23 inches of not to be taken Weather
events, Southport took 23 inches or rain in a 24-hour period.
No coastal town can absorb that much water. Some flooding was inevitable.
It ravaged road took out bridges. She also stated our damage was much less than
western NC. The effects of PTC#S will be Short lived aggregation and
inconvenient
with one damaged area is reopening. This will go away in a few weeks. She also spoke
about the need for civility around the effects from the storm. Western
NC may forever be changed.
She stated she put a post on Southport local's suggestions when aggravation hits in traffic or business
numbers are down think of western NC. The administrator of the page removed
her post. She suggested the city should post on the city website
about the gratitude we experience a result of the
damage from PTC#S not being as devastating what western
NC. She thanked area first responders
during this challenging time. She asked why city officials have not tried to tamp down the rhetoric. She
spoke about a letter she received from a victim of the Western NC disaster. She
stated there was nothing on the city website to guide residents during the
storm.
 
Terry Pierce, of 707 Long Leaf Dr.-
 He spoke about the city former ETJ. He encouraged the Aldermen to
ask the City Attorney to pursue the overturing
of the ETJ removal law. He spoke about the impacts phase two of the indigo
development would have on the city. He also spoke on the need to make changes
to the Unified Development Ordinance relating to Planned
Unit Developments. He spoke about the city vehicle tax that he pays. He stated
a solution cold be to have paid parking for those that are not residents.
 
Hilary Meehan, of 113 S. Howe St.- She spoke about the proposed unified
development ordinances changes to neon and mural requirements. She also
thanked first responders for their efforts during the recent storm. She stated
she would like keep allowing neon and mural's within the city. She spoke about
the development and history of neon. She asked the Board to reconsider the
regulations around neon and murals=.
 
Aldermen Mosteller made a motion to come out of public comment,
seconded by Aldermen Carroll.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
 
Mayor Alt stated if you want to come up to public comment and have a political
campaign to beat me up that's fine. But beating up the staff
is inexcusable. Mayor Alt pointed out that Public Information Officer
Ketchum was in the Emergency Operation
center every day during the storm and getting out information to the public
on every platform. Mayor Alt stated NCDOT was in charge
of traffic coordination. He stated Chief Coring was on TV multiple times and
did a great job as the storm incident commander. Mayor Alt stated multiple
city departments did a great job during the storm and the Aldermen's job
is to give them the resources to make it happen not take glory for their work.
E.   Approval of Agenda
Aldermen Davis made a motion to amend the agenda to include discussion
on code enforcement,
seconded by Aldermen Mosteller. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
Aldermen Carroll made a motion to approve the agenda as amended, seconded by Aldermen
Davis.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
 
F.   Approval of the Consent Agenda
C.   
Aldermen Mosteller made a motion to approve the following consent items, seconded by Aldermen
Spencer. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
1.   Minutes From the September
11th Special Joint Aldermen and Park and Recreation Committee Meeting
 
2.   Minutes from the Regular September 12th Aldermen Meeting
 
3.   Resolution to comply with new State law S.L. 2024-26
 
Mayor Alt stated the Parks and Recreation Committee will be making
a recommendation regarding the direction of Frankin Square Park. Mayor
Alt stated it will likely be on the Aldermen's agenda in December.
G.   Special Recognition
Planning Services Director Maureen Meehan introduced new City Planner Wendell
Biddle.
H.   Agenda
1.   UDO Section 3.19 Signs Text Amendment
Planning Services Director Maureen Meehan presented a text amendment
to the citys unified development ordinance(udo) related to signs.
Aldermen Mosteller made a motion to approve the amendment to section
3.19 signs of the UDO and the consistence statement favoring the change
as presented, seconded by Aldermen Carrol.
Aldermen Davis stated she would like additional time to review the changes.
Aldermen Mosteller stated this has been available for two months.
Aldermen Davis asked about the difference between the neon lighting
requirements.
Planning Services Director Meehan stated the Planning Board had been working
on this ordinance for several months with a subcommittee.
Aldermen Mosteller withdrew her motion.
Aldermen Davis made a motion to table the item until next month Thursday
Aldermen meeting to allow for further review. The motion died for a lack of
second.
Aldermen Mosteller made a motion to approve the amendments to UDO section
3.19 signs and the consistency statement favoring the change as presented.
Seconded by Aldermen Carroll.
Aldermen Spencer asked for clarity around the mural requirements.
Mayor Pro-Tern Kelley stated she had concern about telling business
owners what they can do to their property.
Motion passed 4-1 with Aldermen Davis voting No.
2.   Update on Traffic Concerns
Police Chief Coring and NCDOT engineer Josh Pratt gave an update on traffic concerns in the
city.
3.   North Carolina Eastern Municipal Power Agency (NCEMPA) Commissioner
and 2nd Alternate Appointment
Aldermen Mosteller made a motion to appoint Frank Petraglia as the commissioner
and Larry
Ditton as the second alternate to the NCEMPS, seconded by Aldermen Spencer. Unanimous
Vote; Motion Carried.
4.   Code Enforcement update
Code enforcement
officer Derek Mabe presented several minimum housing violations at 314 Rhett Street
and 711 Cottage Lane.
Aldermen Davis asked if the owners intend to do with the property.
Mr. Mabe stated the owner had intention to demolish the property themselves,
but they have not made progress.
Aldermen Davis asked after they receive the final notice, if they didn't want to proceed
could the city move forward with demolition
does the city need to wait the entire 30 days. City Attorney Herman stated he
advised to follow the statute as written.
Mr. Mabe stated that as the city waits for the required
30 days, the city can begin getting quotes for demolition so we can proceed as
soon as possible.
Aldermen Spencer asked what previous contractors have charged for demolition.
Mr. Mabe stated between $10-20,000.
Aldermen Davis stated she had heard from neighbors about concern regarding the property.
Mayor Alt stated there were funds budget for purposes such as this demolition.
Mr. Mabe stated although no formal action was needed tonight,
he likes to bring it up to the Aldermen and public, so they are aware the city
is taking action.
I.   Committee Reports
1.   ABC Board
J.   Manager's Report
City Manager Turille gave the following report:
1.   PTC#8 Recovery Update:
      Recovery continues with opening of the Duke Canal
bridge, the announcement of Individual Assistance/
Small Business loans to homeowners/businesses and continued support of our
businesses on social media, advertising events such as the recent King Mackerel and the
Children's fishing tournament Downtown.
      Clarification on the release of FEMA Assistance for Public Assistance:
1)      FEMA will only reimburse us, at this stage, for actual storm damage. If
a federal
declaration is declared we will then move quickly to perform tv camera work on the
stormwater system to assess and submit actual damage costs.
2)   Once actual damages submitted, our FEMA contact states that "we can submit
the upgrade/mitigation costs to be considered for their Mitigation Program and
add additional funds to the project" which is the full $2.6 million for
stormwater upgrades.
3)   But first we must follow FEMA protocol: 1. federal declaration 2. perform
the tv work 3. submit an itemized costs estimate for
reimbursement 4. then discuss the total upgrade costs to the system as
part of the FEMA Mitigation Program, for the full $2.6 million.
      Mosquito spray- 
in response to recent tropical weather the County will be spraying sometime
between October 11 and 13.
2.   Comprehensive Plan Update: Stewart Consultants: presented the Draft
Comprehensive Plan October 8. Staff met with Stewart to integrate the plan with
our stormwater mapping, ETJ
issues, the N. Howe street overlay and issues critical to the
future of the City. Plan will include a dedicated workshop with the Board for
your input into the Vision, including smaller individual meetings with you.
3.   Old Courthouse/City Hall:  Abatement work begun; a special meeting
scheduled for Monday, October 21st, 9AM with the Center for the Creative Arts
on vision for use.
4.   Retreat in January:  we have three options (further discussion the
November meeting agenda):
o    Indian Trail/Community Building
o    Fort Caswell $10 per person (i.e. up to $200)
o    Cooperative Extension in Bolivia- This is free
5.   Inclusive Park: regional Managers meeting October 16 to discuss the four
regional options proposed by the regional managers
(none in Southport). I will report back; schedule a public meeting then.
6.   Franklin Square Park: 
Parks & Recreation Advisory Committee meets Tuesday the 15th•
K.   Mayor's Comments
Mayor Alt stated there are various deadlines and funds available for recovery
efforts related to PTC#8. He also spoke about efforts in the legislature
to appropriate additional funds for the storm. Mayor Alt spoke about stormwater
issues from the storm and how the impact from the former ETJ will have on the
city. He also spoke about the needs of the fire district related to development
and the funds received by the fire district.
L.   Staff Reports
1.   Code Enforcement Report
2.   Public Works Reports
M.   Board Comments
Mayor Pro-Tern
Kelley spoke about the recent RPO meeting she attended which included changes to the
STIP process with local input having greater weighted. She thanked
the city for their support during the recent passing of Maria Swenson, owner
of the Provision Company.
Aldermen Davis spoke about the recent awards Bob Lipa of the Port Pilot had received from the NC press
association.
Aldermen Mosteller spoke about the Beatification committee and their recent cleanup. She also
spoke about the Forestry Committee upcoming meeting. She also gave a reminder
of the upcoming fall session of the Southport fire academy. She mentioned
the Animal Protection Services and PAWSibilities Animal Rescues upcoming bowser
bash. She spoke about the upcoming electronic recycling day.
N.   Closed Session NCGS 143-318.11
Aldermen Mosteller made a motion to go into closed session pursuant to NCGS 143-
318.11 (3)(5), seconded by Mayor Pro-
Tern Kelley. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried at 8:19 PM.
Aldermen Spencer made a motion to come out of closed session,
seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Kelley. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried at 10:01:33
PM.
O.   Adjourn
Mayor Pro-Tern Kelley made a motion to adjourn, seconded by Aldermen Mosteller.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried at 10:01:48 PM.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3069_3114x787.jpg]
Rich Alt
Mayor
 
Noah Saldo
Attest Noah Saldo City Clerk
October 21, 2024
SPECIAL MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN SPECIAL MEETING
October 21, 2024  223 E. BAY STREET
SOUTHPORT, N.C.   9:00AM
 
Minutes
Present: Mayor Rich Alt, Mayor Pro-Tern Rebecca Kelley arrived at 9:
21 AM, Aldermen Karen Mosteller, Lowe Davis, Robert Carroll, Marc Spencer and
Frank Lai.
Staff:
 City Manager Stuart Turille, City Clerk Noah Saldo, Police Chief Todd Coring, and Public
Information Officer ChyAnn Ketchum.
A.   Mayor Alt called the meeting to order at 9:00 AM.
B.   Aldermen Reverend Lowe Davis gave the invocation.
C.   Mayor Alt led the Pledge of Allegiance.
D.   Aldermen Lai made a motion to approve the agenda, seconded by Aldermen
Spencer.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
E.   Agenda
1.Presentation by the Center for the Creative Arts
Mark Bachara presented the Center
for the Creative Art's vision for using the old city hall and courthouse
building. He stated that the vision would be for a multipurpose facility
to be used by the city and the Center for the Creative Arts for performances
and other events. He presented drawings and floor plans the group had created
regarding the building.
The group would like to know the city's needs and non-negotiables. A mutual
agreement would be
needed so that the Center for the Creative Arts can proceed with raising money and implementing
plans. 2.Discussion and Questions from the Presentation
Aldermen Davis asked what form the group's readiness stands such as financial. Mr. Bachara stated that
their readiness is the group is assembled and ready to
engage with the city. He stated the group is not ready financially and would
not be able to raise funds until there was an agreement with the city.
Aldermen Mosteller spoke about the variety of experience and background
that members of the Center of the Creative Arts Board had. Aldermen Mosteller
asked if we could dedicate the chambers Monday through Friday
until 1pm to ensure dedicated meeting space. Mr. Bachara stated that it would
be something that would need to be considered. The program committee
could take these times and review the schedule of events.
Alderman Lai stated there are often meetings that come up unexpectedly
also other city boards such as the planning board. These meetings would need
to take some kind of precedent, we need some way to control and block off time.
Aldermen Davis stated it is anticipated that new audio and visual equipment
would be installed. Aldermen Davis asked how a conflict would be handled
if there was a performance scheduled but the Aldermen had an unexpected
meeting. Mr. Bachara stated perhaps some of the equipment could be portable and
the Aldermen would still have the use of the community building.
Mayor Alt stated the audio and visual equipment would
not be able to be moved and better screens would need to be installed
permanently.
Aldermen Carroll stated that one of his requirements would also be the Aldermen
having access to the chambers no less than Monday through Friday until 1pm.
Mayor Alt stated his concern
would be if a play took place would there be a requirement for having
rehearsals.
Aldermen Lai stated one of his concerns would be if a performance was scheduled
and an emergency Aldermen meeting came up who would have precedent
of the space.
Mr. Bachara stated that would be something
the group would need to figure out. He would have to take the Aldermen's
meeting requirement to the program committee and determine if
a budget for weekend performances only would be feasible.
Aldermen Mosteller
stated the group would need to consider what the needs would be for different types
of performances and events.
Mayor Alt stated the screens would need to be set in place.
Other municipalities such as Oak Island do a good job with having a screen
in front of each member and off to both sides.
Steve Debank a Board member of the Center for the Creative Arts asked what the
other space needs might be in other areas of the building. Would a smaller
conference room be acceptable versus using the main chambers.
Mayor Alt stated the Board is united that the meetings will be broadcast which
would require the use of the chambers. Also, the space would be needed
for the public to come and watch the meeting as well. Mayor Alt stated
the police department also needed a new location. The police department has
previously
used the building as the police department and could once again. There are a lot of competing
needs. This has been going on for seven years, the upstairs chambers would need
to be the Aldermen's all the time. Mayor Alt stated he remembers in previous
conversations that if the chambers room was exclusively the city's that it
would be a struggle for the Center for the Creative Arts. Mayor Alt asked if
they had worked out the business model if it could work without the use
of the Chambers.
Mr. Bachara stated he wasn't aware of such a requirement.
Mayor Alt stated he mentioned during the budget cycle that we had to take a week off because there
was no place to meet. Mayor Alt stated he didn't know how the group
could prepare for something and then a meeting came up and then said the group
could not use it because of a meeting. Mayor Alt stated another concern
was if the group was allowed to use the downstairs of the building, we then
will need to find a location for the police department. Mayor Alt stated there
were already many different arts venues throughout the city. Mayor Alt asked if
the group had reached out to the other venues to see if these facilities could
be used for the Center for the Creative Arts events.
Mr. Bachara stated they had reached out to the other venues,
and they have offered their support. The Center for the Creative
arts is not trying to supplant the other venues but support them.
Mayor Alt asked if different rates would be charged for Southport
residents and those from outside the city.
Mr. Bachara stated they have not thought that far ahead to determine the rates
that would be charged. Mayor Alt stated he is trying to figure out how the
Aldermen who have a fiduciary responsibility to the citizens of Southport
and how we manage multimillion
dollar projects on a twenty five cent budget. Mayor
Alt stated the city had a limited number of buildings
and the old city hall building can accommodate a big portion of what we need to
do.
Mayor Pro-Tern Kelley stated the special meeting that is scheduled
for tonight is a good example of a meeting that came up unexpectedly. Either
we would have to try and find an alternative location if possible or kick the
Center for the Creative Arts out.
Mr. Bachara stated he believes there was a consensus around having the Aldermen
a standing reservation Monday
through Friday until 1pm the group would have to determine if the business plan
could sustain that.
Aldermen Spencer
stated the future of what we will need and how we use it is at stake its not as simple
as it was seven years ago. Aldermen Spencer stated he wasn't sure about
the true cost of the repairs. Mayor Alt stated it would cost a considerable
amount no matter what the use of the building will be.
Mayor Alt stated a steady stream of income
would be needed by the Center for the Creative Arts to be able to carry out its
business plan.
Aldermen Mosteller
stated she doesn't believe the Center for the creative Arts have been able to receive
enough feedback from the Aldermen to come up with a solid business plan.
She stated there was a building study done showing the police department would
not be able to fit in the old city hall building.
She stated the Center for the Creative Arts are willing to cover
some of the Cost of the building going forward.
Mayor Alt stated he had spoken with Police Chief Coring on if the police
department could fit in the downstairs
of the old city hall or a new police department building would be needed.
Police Chief Coring came to the podium and stated he was an Aldermen when
the police department originally moved out
and it was only supposed to be temporary.
He stated there were plans drawn up showing the downstairs of the old city hall
could be used as the police department.
Mayor Alt stated its not just the Center for the Creative
Arts that needs to come up with a business plan, but the Aldermen must
determine their business plan of where the needs of the city such as the police
department and public works would need to go.
Mayor Alt stated taking the public works building down, building a police
department there would be a cost, and putting up a new public works building
would all be significant costs that he doesn't see where
the city would get that money from. Alternatively
using the old city hall building that could be used for the police department
and have an exclusive chamber.
Chief Coring stated he would look into finding the drawings that were done showing
the police department going back into the old city hall building.
Tom Bice from the Center for the Creative Arts asked if there seems to be some
competing plans from the city showing the police department could or could
not be housed in the old city hall building. The
Center for the Creative Arts have people involved with a lot of different
experiences and talents that have been used to help create the plans for
what the group hopes to see in the building. Mr. Bice stated it would
be helpful for the city and the Center for the Creative Arts could get together
and brainstorm and help come up with plans together.
Aldermen
Carroll stated the Board of Aldermen must decide what the space should be used for. Does the
Board want to use it as a police department and chambers or does the Board
want to continue to collaborate with the Center for the Creative Arts. Aldermen
Carroll stated his nonnegotiable would be having the upstairs chambers
executively Monday through Friday would not matter if the police department
went back in the building as well.
Mayor Alt stated the Board of Aldermen must decide what direction they want to
go.
Aldermen Carroll asked what the time frame for the Center
for the Creative Arts would be to raise the funds for the building.
Mr. Bachara stated similar projects have been done throughout the state.
He stated they could not guarantee a timeline but based on planned projections
could be four years. This would be applying for grants and raising funds
through local campaigns.
Aldermen Lai stated its his understanding that the Center for the Creative
Arts Won't be able to do anything until an understanding is reached
with the Aldermen. Aldermen Lai asked once an agreement was reached what would
be the time frame that funds would be raised, and work begin on the project.
Mr. Bachara stated he would go back and look at other similar projects
to see once they got access and began raising money what the time frame was for
the project to be completed.
Mayor Alt stated one question to look into is if those other projects were needed for any other purposes
for that jurisdiction.
Aldermen Mosteller stated the public works building
is near the end of its life. The city could find land to put a new public works
facility and the property where the public works building
could be used for other purposes.
Mayor Alt stated he agrees that the public works building is nearing
the end of its life a new building would need to be built for them
and the police department. Where would these funds come from.
Aldermen Carroll stated we are going to spend the same money in a new building
as the city would for the old city hall building. Aldermen
Carroll stated the Aldermen needed to have a conversation about the
police department. Aldermen Carroll would like to understand the differences
between the plans that show the police department working in the old
city hall building and those showing it won't.
Mayor Alt stated the takeaways would be we need to see the various plans that
have been done on the old city hall building. The other take aways would
be for the Center for the Creative Arts if the city had to
use the upstairs chamber room exclusively five days a week
would the group be able to survive and have the business plan to support it.
Mr. Bachara stated it was good to know what the Aldermen's
needs were so then he can take that and have meetings with his group
to determine if it would be feasible or not.
Mayor Alt asked if there were plans to have outdoor music as it had previously
been discussed by up your arts. Mayor Alt stated there would be concerned
with that if there was a funeral or wedding going on nearby.
Aldermen Carroll stated both sides should do the homework,
so the same conversations are not had next time.
Mayor Alt stated decisions need to be made whatever that is, it would
not be fair to the citizens of Southport or the Center for the creative Arts by
continuing to have this linger on without answers. Aldermen
Davis asked if they intended to rent spaces out for weddings
as that would be competing with the city for wedding space.
Aldermen Lai asked if there were things from the Center for the Creative Arts that were nonnegotiable
that they needed.
Mr. Bachara stated they would need the large performance
space, they would need to determine if they only had access to it on the
weekend if that would work.
Mayor Alt asked if Mr. Bachara could get with the City Manager
to come up with dates for another meeting so we can figure out where each
side is and make a decision.
Brad Wilson from the Center for the Creative Arts stated as a citizen this building
should be able to use to show the history and various forms of music.
Mr. Wilson asked for the Board to think about whose needs were being most met
by this building.
Vicky Lasher from the Center for the Creative Arts stated she was the Department
of Homeland Security grants manager. She stated there were many grants
out there that could be used for this building.
Aldermen Spencer stated that as someone who grew up in Southport,
he was tired of entertaining people. This should be a place to live.
Tom Bice from the Center for the Creative Arts stated the arts center would
not be a party place but somewhere everyone
would want to come. He stated that as far as outside music playing it could be
chamber music but that it would not be more disruptive than having police cars
with sirens. Mayor Alt asked that at any future meeting if they
would send any materials ahead of time so the Aldermen could review it prior to
the meeting.
F.   Adjourn
Aldermen Carroll made a motion to adjourn, seconded by Aldermen Davis.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried at 10:27 AM.
Rich Alt
Rich Alt
Mayor
 
Noah Saide
Attest: Noah Saide City Clerk
 
November 4, 2024
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING
November 4, 2024  223 E. BAY STREET
SOUTHPORT, N.C.   9:00AM
Minutes
Present: Mayor Rich Alt, Mayor Pro-Tern Rebecca Kelley, Aldermen Karen
Mosteller, Lowe Davis, Robert Carroll, Frank Lai, and Marc spencer.
Staff: City Manager Stuart Turille, City Clerk Noah Saide, Parks and Recreation
Director Heather Hemphill, Planning Services Director Maureen Meehan, City
Engineer Tom Zilinek, Director of Community Relations Allayna Taylor, Fire
Chief Charles Drew, Deputy Fire Marshall Brian Kolhoff.
A.   Mayor Alt called the meeting to order at 9:02AM.
B.   Invocation
Aldermen Reverend Davis gave the invocation.
C.   Pledge of Allegiance
Mayor Alt led the Pledge of Allegiance.
D.   Public Comment
No one signed up for public comment.
E.   Approval of Agenda
Aldermen Mosteller made a motion to approve the agenda as presented, second by
Mayor ProTern Kelley. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried
F.   Agenda
   1.   Downtown Parking Study
   Jim Corbett with Walker Consultants gave the following presentation:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3118.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3124.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3122.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3120.png]
Members of the Board had a discussion regarding the parking study and ideas and
concerns they had regarding parking within the city.
Aldermen Davis made a motion to instruct the Planning Board to study an overlay
for parking in the yacht basin area between South Caswell, West Moore, Yacht
Basin Drive, and West Bay block and to come back to the Board of Aldermen with
recommendations for a possible UDO amendment for a parking overlay for the four
residential lots. Seconded by Aldermen Mosteller, the Motion passed 5-1 with
Aldermen Spencer voting No.
Aldermen Carroll made a motion to move item F. 3 July 4th committee
presentation before item F. 2 stormwater Mapping Study seconded by Aldermen
Spencer.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried
   2.   July 4th Festival Committee
Lucinda Arnold President of the July 4th festival presented on the work of the
committee and the upcoming 2025 July 4th celebration. Ms. Arnold presented the
scope of work and the 2024-2025 service agreement.
Aldermen Davis spoke about her desire for the committee to research quieter
fireworks for those who are affected with PTSD.
Mayor Pro-Tern Kelley made a motion to approve the 2024-2025 service agreement
with the North Carolina Fourth of July Festival Inc. seconded by Aldermen
Mosteller.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried
   3.   Stormwater Mapping Study
City Engineer Tom Zilinek and Tom Murray with WK Dickson presented the
following Stormwater Mapping Study presentation:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3132.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3130.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3128.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3126.png]
   5.   Board Retreat and Budget Calendar
City Manager Turille presented options for the Board to have a retreat in
January and the proposed budget calendar for the coming fiscal year. Once the
Board selects a location the City Clerk will bring back the meeting dates in
the 2025 Aldermen meeting schedule.
Aldermen Davis made a motion to hold the retreat in Southport in Indian Trail
or the Community Building seconded by Aldermen Carroll. Unanimous Vote; Motion
Carried
G.   Manager's Report
   City Manager Turille presented the following report:
   1.   PTC#8 Recovery Update:
    •   Downtown businesses: recent events such as the weekend's Wooden Boat
Show and Holly Days Arts & Craft Show are bringing folks back downtown.
Businesses can find SBA Economic Injury Disaster loan applications on our
website, for additional support.
   •   We are moving on the path to FEMA funds for our storm drainage system,
to mitigate flooding. First step: cctv the drainage lines to obtain damage
data. We will select a contractor to do this, for your approval on the 14th.
    •   Data then sent to the FEMA for reimbursement for current damage. This
allows access to the FEMA Disaster Mitigation grant (seeking $2.6 million) to
improve the system capacity to handle future storms of this magnitude. The data
will be used, with the Stormwater Report, to pursue other funds to improve our
system (Golden Leaf, State fund (HB149).
   2.   Overlay District Update:
draft standards are completed, ready for meeting on November 19 with the County
and Mr. MacLeod. The Overlay standards preserve N. Howe corridor's unique
character, addressing dimensional requirements such as height, setbacks,
outdoor advertising, mixed-use projects, building design features, and traffic.
   3.   Legislative Agenda:
   please submit your requests to the Clerk Saldo, so we can finalize the list
for approval next meeting, and submit to our State representatives.
   4.   Comprehensive Plan Update --
   Stewart Consultants: are finalizing the implementation strategies and
preparing a draft plan that will be available for Board review soon.
   5.   Old Courthouse/City Hall:
   abatement work is progressing on schedule, with expected completion by early
December.
   6.   Strategic Goals Overview:
   I propose to submit for your review on the 14th an overview of recommended
Strategic goals, beginning with what you adopted last February to start my
review, which we can build upon at the Retreat.
   7.   Shoreline Stabilization Project Update:
   our Engineer speaking now with the property owners on project benefits and
scope; City Attorney finalizing easement language, for your review on the 14th.
   8.   FY-25-26 Budgets:
   are out to Department Heads to complete. This year we began much earlier
(October). Finance will place the data in a long term cash forecasting model to
understand our near and long-term financial strategy, to be presented at the
Retreat.
H.   Mayor's Comments
Mayor Alt reminded everyone in the coming budget year there will be a need to
come up with close to $1 Millon as the city no longer has funds coming for
water and sewer.
I.   Board Comments
Aldermen Mosteller thanked staff for all their work.
Aldermen Davis hopes to see what new homes and buildings were added to the tax
base to have a good idea what is coming and what the full city revenue might be
from these new developments. Mayor Pro-Tem Kelley thanked the police and fire
department during the recent Halloween events.
Aldermen Spencer spoke about the recent passing of Peggy Campbell. He also
spoke about Mayor Alt providing great friendship and leadership, particularly
during the recent storm. He spoke about the upcoming elections and the work of
the Board of Elections and volunteers. J. Closed Session NCGS 143-318.11
Aldermen Mosteller made a motion to go into closed session pursuant to Closed
Session NCGS 143318.1 1-(3) To consult with an attorney employed or retained by
the public body in order to preserve the attorney client privilege between the
attorney and the public body, which privilege is hereby    acknowledged.5) To
establish, or to instruct the public body's staff or negotiating agents
concerning the position to be taken by or on behalf of the public body in
negotiating (i) the price and other material terms of a contract or proposed
contract for the acquisition of real property by purchase, option, exchange, or
lease; or (ii) the amount of compensation and other material terms of an
employment contract or proposed employment contract.(6) To consider the
qualifications, competence, performance, character, fitness, conditions of
appointment, or conditions of initial employment of an individual public
officer or employee or prospective public officer or employee; or to hear or
investigate a complaint, charge, or grievance by or against an individual
public officer or employee. General personnel policy issues may not be
considered in a closed session. A public body may not consider the
qualifications, competence, performance, character, fitness, appointment, or
removal of a member of the public body or another body and may not consider or
fill a vacancy among its own membership except in an open meeting. Final action
making an appointment or discharge or removal by a public body having final
authority for the appointment or discharge or removal shall be taken in an open
meeting.
Seconded by Aldermen Spencer, Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried at 12:54 PM.
Adjourn
K.   Adjourn
Aldermen Mosteller made a motion to come out of closed session, seconded by
Aldermen Spencer.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried at 2:14 PM.
   R. B. Alt
   Rich Alt
   Mayor
 
                     Noah Saldo
                     Attest: Noah Saldo
                     City Clerk
November 14, 2024
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING
November 14, 2024 223 E. BAY STREET
SOUTHPORT, N.C.   6:00 PM
Present: Mayor Rich Alt, Mayor Pro-Tem Rebecca Kelley, Aldermen Frank Lai,
Robert Carroll, Karen Mosteller, and Marc Spencer
Absent: Aldermen Lowe Davis
Staff: City Manager Stuart Turille, City Clerk Noah Saldo, Public Information
Officer ChyAnn Ketchum, Development Services Director Maureen Meehan, Fire
Chief Charles Drew, Battalion Chief Ralph
Treadway, Public Works Director Tom Stanley, Community Relations Director
Allayna Taylor, Parks and Recreation Director Heather Hemphill, Code
Enforcement Officer Derek Mabe, and City Attorney Brady Herman
A.   Call to Order
Mayor Alt called the meeting to order at 6:00 PM
B.   Invocation
Pastor Devon Varnam of Southport Baptist Church gave the Invocation.
C.   Pledge of Allegiance
Mayor Alt led the Pledge of Allegiance Mayor Alt read the ethics statement.
D.   Public Comment
Marck Bachara of 309 Clarendon Ave spoke about the Old city hall building. City
Clerk Saldo read the following statement received from Tom Lombardi:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3134.png]
E.   Approval of Agenda
Aldermen Carroll made a motion to table item F. 5 old city hall/ courthouse
property until the December 2nd regular Aldermen meeting and to format that
meeting as a joint sit down meeting with Up Your Arts, seconded by Aldermen
Mosteller.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
Aldermen Carroll made a motion to amend the agenda to include in the place of
agenda item F. 5 a discussion on Indigo Phase Il, seconded by Aldermen
Mosteller.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
Mayor Pro-Tem Kelley made a motion to amend the agenda to include an agenda
item F. 7 to have a code enforcement update and demolish ordinances for 711
Cottage Ln and 314 N Rhett St, seconded by Aldermen Lai.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
Aldermen Carroll made a motion to approve the agenda as amended, seconded by
Aldermen Mosteller. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
F.   Approval of the Consent Agenda
Aldermen Mosteller made a motion to approve the following consent agenda items
as presented, seconded by Aldermen Carroll.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
   1.   Set A Public Hearing for the December 12, 2024, regular Board of
Aldermen meeting for a Zoning Map Amendment and Major Modification to the Cades
Cove Planned Unit Development.
   2.   Stormwater System Cleaning and CCTV budget amendment and contract
   3.   City Building Roof Replacement contract
   4.   Minutes From the October 7th Regular Aldermen Meeting
   5.   Minutes From the October 10th Regular Aldermen Meeting
   6.   Minutes From the October 21st 9:00 AM Special Aldermen Meeting
   7.   Minutes From the October 21st 6:00 PM Special Aldermen Meeting
G.   Agenda
   1.   EMS Ambulance Franchise Agreement
Fire Chief Drew presented the recommended 2024-2025 EMS Ambulance Franchise
Agreement with Brunswick County.
Aldermen Mosteller made a motion to approve the agreement as presented,
seconded by Aldermen Lai.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
   2.   Discussion on County Fire Fees and Possible Tax
Fire Chief Drew presented regarding ongoing conversations that are being held
in the county regarding the fire fees and a possible fire tax.
Mayor Alt stated that the regional Mayors would be meeting on this issue. He
stated he had also spoken with our legislators and the NC Legue of
Municipalities.
Mayor Alt spoke about conversations around the state regarding the sales tax
distribution and formulas.
   3.   Weather Tower Project
Fire Chief Drew presented on the downtown water tower project. Chief Drew
stated that the remainder donated funds have been received to begin
reconstructing the weather tower.
Aldermen Mosteller made a motion to approve budget amendment #6 and authorize
the City Manager to execute a contract with a contractor for the project,
seconded by Aldermen Lai.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
   4.   Board of Aldermen Legislative Priorities (Mayor Alt)
Mayor Alt presented the following city legislative agenda:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3136.png]
   5.   Indigo Phase 2
Aldermen Carroll read the following statement:
I would like to propose the following motion: In light of recent changes, I
respectfully request that we initiate open and collaborative discussions with
Bald Head Island Limited and East West Partners regarding their Indigo Phase Il
project.
The Indigo Phase Il development initially came before the City of Southport
several years ago. Since then, recent actions by County and State officials
have impacted Southport's ETJ. As a result, the majority of the Indigo Phase Il
development now falls under county jurisdiction, while a smaller portion
remains within the city. Bald Head Island Limited and East West Partners have
expressed a desire to have the entire project—both the city and county
portions—annexed into Southport. I believe it is in the city's best interest to
negotiate directly with the developers to ensure a unified development approach
rather than having it divided across separate ordinances.
Working collaboratively with the developers allows us to pursue a cohesive
vision for Indigo Phase Il that aligns with Southport's long-term interests. If
this community is destined to be built, we have a unique opportunity to help
shape it in a way that best benefits both our current residents and those who
will join our community in the years to come, This approach will enable us to
craft a higher-quality, well-integrated project that enhances Southport's
character, serves the city's needs, and maximizes the potential opportunities
that such development can bring.
I urge the Board to consider this motion and open the door to proactive,
positive discussions with Bald Head Island Limited and East West Partners.
Together, we can work toward a solution that serves the best interests of
Southport now and for generations ahead.
Aldermen Mosteller seconded the motion, Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
   6.   Board of Adjustment Appointment Process
Aldermen Spencer asked the Board to extend the deadline of receiving
applications for the Board of Adjustment to allow for a more diverse set of
applicants to choose from.
Aldermen Spencer made a motion to extend the application deadline for the Board
of Adjustment until December 15th , seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Kelley.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
   7.   Code Enforcement update and Demolition Ordinances for 711
      Cottage Ln and 314 N Rhett St
Planning services Director Meehan and Code Enforcement Officer Derek Mabe
presented on dilapidated properties and minimum housing violations for 711
Cottage Ln and 314 N Rhett St.
Aldermen Mosteller made a motion to approve demolition ordinances for 711
Cottage Ln and 314 N Rett St. as presented with a 15-day grace period for 314
Rhett St.
Motion passed 3-2 with Mayor Pro-Tem Kelley and Aldermen Spencer voting No.
H.   Committee Reports
The following reports were provided in the agenda packet.
Aldermen Lai spoke on the ABC report.
Mayor Pro-Tem Kelley spoke about ongoing interviews for the Planning Board.
   1.   ABC Board October Sales Report and Meeting Minutes
   2.   Planning Board October Meeting Draft Minutes
   3.   Historic Preservation Commission October Meeting Minutes
   4.   Parks and Recreation October Report
l.    Manager's Report
City Manager Turille presented the following report:
   1.   N. Howe Street Overlay District Update:
Staff will send you a report about the November 19 meeting with the County and
Mr. MacLeod, where they will discuss the preliminary N. Howe Overlay Draft.
   2.   Comprehensive Plan Update -- Stewart Consultants:
Part 1 will be sent to you Friday the 15th. This will include a draft of the
intro and input section and draft recommendations. Part 2 will be the Existing
Conditions (CAMA related) and supporting information section. You can see the
work to date at this link: https://cityofsouthport.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/
10/SP_PM2-Boards_20241008_All_final_reduced.pdf
   3.   Old Courthouse/City Hall:
with the abatement work concluding in December, our Engineer is developing a
project schedule on the next phases, as we move forward, including the
immediate need for HVAC and the next construction work.
   4.   Strategic Needs & Goals Overview:
it is important to take a cohesive, high-level view of all our projects, needs
and goals so that we solve both immediate and long term goals in a logical,
organized process. I will have this for the December meeting. We can then link
them with the Long-Term Cash Flow (budget) model that the Finance Director is
developing to present at the January Retreat.
   5.   FY-25-26 Budget:
Underway; we are taking a long-term view to our operating and capital costs,
thinking 5 to 10 years forward, so that the budget be viewed with a long-term
strategic perspective rather than individual year-to-year needs.
J.   Staff Reports
The following reports were included in the agenda packet for review:
   1 .   Public Works October Reports
   2.   Police Department October Report
   3.   AV project status report
   4.   Finance Department Report
   5.   Permitting and Inspections October Report
K.   Mayor's Comments
Mayor Alt spoke about the sales Tax and Fire Fee's.
L.   Board Comments
Aldermen Mosteller gave a shout out to Building Inspector Kiley Barefoot. She
recently had a home project where he help with the project. She congratulated
Mr. barefoot receiving his Level 3 Building Certification which is the highest
level. Aldermen Mosteiler spokeaboutthe recent opening of the Kayak launch and
thanked all involved. She spoke about a recent County Planning Board meeting
she attended and requested the City Manager consider having staff attend these
meetings.
Aldermen Carroll spoke about the discussion and motion around Indigo Phase 2.
He stated it was not a pro-development stance but a pro-Southport stance.
Aldermen Spencer spoke about tourism and business. He spoke about any change
would need to be made at the legislative level.
Aldermen Lai spoke about the Kayak launch and thanked those involved.
M.   Closed Session NCGS 143-318.11
Mayor Pro-Tem Kelley made a motion to go into closed session pursuant to NCGS
143-318.11
3) To consult with an attorney employed or retained by the public body in order
to preserve the attorney-client privilege between the attorney and the public
body, which privilege is hereby acknowledged.
(6) To consider the qualifications, competence, performance, character,
fitness, conditions of appointment, or conditions of initial employment of an
individual public officer or employee or prospective public officer or
employee; or to hear or investigate a complaint, charge, or grievance by or
against an individual public officer or employee.
Seconded by Aldermen Carroll Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried. At 7:32 PM.
Aldermen Spencer made a motion to come out of closed session, seconded by
Aldermen Carroll.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried. At 8:31 PM.
N.   Adjourn
Aldermen Carroll made a motion to adjourn, seconded by Aldermen Spencer.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried. At 8:31    PM.
                                                R. B. Alt
                                                Rich Alt
                                                Mayor
 
Noah Saldo
Attest: Noah Saldo
City Clerk
December 2, 2024
REGULAR MEETING
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING
December 2, 2024 223 E. BAY STREET
SOUTHPORT, N.C.   9:00 AM
 
Present: 
Mayor Rich Alt, Mayor Pro-
Tem Rebecca Kelley, Aldermen Karen Mosteller, Lowe Davis, Robert Carroll, Frank
Lai, and Marc spencer.
Staff:
City Manager Stuart Turille, City Clerk Noah Saldo, Parks and Recreation
Director Heather Hemphill, Planning Services Director Maureen Meehan, City
Engineer Bob Jarvis, Director
of Community Relations Allayna Taylor, Fire Chief Charles Drew, Finance Director Lance Flint, Police Chief
Todd Coring, Public Works Director Tom Stanley.
A.   Mayor Alt called the meeting to order at 9:00 AM.
B.   Aldermen Rev. Lowe Davis gave the invocation.
C.   Mayor Alt led the Pledge of Allegiance.
D.   No one signed up for public comment.
E.   Approval of Agenda
Aldermen Davis made a motion to table agenda item G3 the City Managers strategic needs assessment
and move it to the first January Aldermen meeting, seconded by Aldermen
Carroll.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried
Aldermen Carroll made a motion to approve the agenda as amended, seconded by Aldermen
Davis.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried
F.   Approval of the Consent Agenda
Mayor Alt read the Ethics statement
Aldermen Spencer made a motion to approve the following consent agenda items, seconded by
Aldermen Mosteller. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried
1.   FY2025 Budget Amendment #7:
 Multimodal Planning Grant Matching Funds and the NCDOT Agreement
2.   FY2025 Budget Amendment #8: Overlay District
3.   Resolution #24-
1202.01 awarding Retiring Police Major Tony Burke his Service Weapon and Badge
G.   Agenda
1.   4th of July Committee Presentation Follow Up
The North Carolina 4th of July Festival Committee's President, Lucinda Arnold, and Randy Jones,
Chairman of the fireworks committee, gave an update on the committee's efforts
regarding sound concerns about fireworks.
The cost of having a quieter fireworks show would be prohibitive. They informed the Board that they were
given 20 pairs of ear protection headphones for anyone who might need them
during the fireworks show. There will likely be a sign-out sheet in the
community building to pick up and bring back a pair of headphones.
The Board thanked the committee for their work and research into this topic to ensure residents and
visitors had the best possible time during the fireworks.
2.   Specialty Southport License Plate
Public Information Officer ChyAnn Ketchum presented the possibility of creating a Southport specially car
license plate. For a plane license plate similar to the standard North Carolina
Plate with the City seal on it, there would be a requirement to have 300
prepurchase plates. For a $30 license plate, the City would receive $20, and
the State would receive $10. For a full color license plate, there would need
to be 500 prepurchase license plates. Once we reach the threshold of
prepurchase, the City’s application will then be forwarded to the Legislature
for their approval. The City would use the funds received from the sale of
specialty license plates for specific purposes such as emergency management
communications or preparedness.
Aldermen Spencer made a motion to approve moving forward with this project, seconded by Aldermen
Carroll. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried
H.   Manager's Report
City Manager Turille presented several updates including reminders about
upcoming city events. He
thanked Parks and Recreation Director Hemphill for Her work with the Kayak Launch. Planning Services
Director Meehan has received Her Certified Flood Plain Manager designation.
Building Inspector Mike Lavazzo has received his Level 1 Building inspector
Certifications. Building Inspector Kiley Barefoot has received His level 3
Building Inspector Certification. Tori Deviney has been promoted to Deputy City
Clerk.
I.   Mayor's Comments
Mayor Alt spoke about upcoming City events and wished everyone a happy holiday
season.
J.   Board Comments
Aldermen Lai thanked the staff for all of their hard work.
Aldermen Spencer was grateful for the internal promotion of staff. He wished everyone a happy and safe
holiday season.
Aldermen Davis spoke about the Historical Society’s holiday house tour.
Aldermen Mosteller spoke about the need for teamwork among the Board. She stated she had frustration
around the handling of the Old City Hall/ Courthouse building and the treatment
of Up your Arts. She wanted to let the Board of Up Your Arts know that they
were respected and looked for hearing their views. She asked that residents to
reach out to members of the Legislature regarding the downzoning provisions in
SB382.
Mayor Alt stated he had reached out to the League of Municipalities and other Mayors regarding this Bill.
He noted that the Legislators who introduced the Bill were not from our area,
but it would affect us.
K.   Closed Session NCGS 143-318.11
Aldermen Mosteller made a motion to go into closed session
pursuant to NCGS 143-318.11 (3) To consult with an attorney employed or
retained by the public body in order to preserve the attorney- client privilege
between the attorney and the public body, which privilege is hereby
acknowledged and 
(6) To consider the qualifications, competence, performance, character, fitness, conditions of
appointment, or conditions of initial employment of an individual public officer or employee or
prospective public officer or employee. Seconded by Aldermen Lai, Unanimous
Vote; Motion Carried at 9:48 AM.
Aldermen Spencer made a motion to come out of closed session, seconded by Aldermen
Mosteller.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried at 11:08AM.
L.   Adjourn
Aldermen Spencer made a motion to adjourn, seconded by Aldermen Carroll.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried  at 11:08:30AM.
December 10, 2024
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN SPECIAL MEETING
December 10, 2024 223 E. BAY STREET
SOUTHPORT, N.C.   8:30AM
 
SPECIAL MEETING
Present: 
Mayor Rich Alt, Mayor Pro-
Term Rebecca Kelley, Aldermen Karen Mosteller, Lowe Davis, Robert Carroll,
Frank Lai, and Marc Spencer.
Staff:
Gity Manager Stuart Turille, City Clerk Noah Saldo, Public Information Officer
ChyAnn Ketchum, Deputy Finance Director Joey Kronenwetter,
City Engineer Tom Zilinek, Police Chief Todd Coring, Community Relations
Director Allayna Dail.
A.   Mayor Alt called the meeting to order at 9:00 AM.
B.   Aldermen Rev. Davis gave the invocation.
C.   Mayor Alt led the Pledge of Allegiance.
D.   Agenda
1.   Discussion on City Facilities and City Departments Space Needs. City
Manager Turille presented the following:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3236.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3238.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3240.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3242.png]
City Engineer Zilinek presented on the city's space needs and the capacity and
options of the old city hall/ courthouse building.
Police Chief Coring presented the needs of the police department and the
capability of the police department back into the old city hall building.
Deputy Finance Director presented on the financing part of the project.
The Board asked questions regarding the option for the building and what the
financial cost of the options would be.
Aldermen Lai asked about a potential project timeline.
Aldermen Davis stated th is action can be used for some of our governmental
needs. It might not solve all needs for all times but can help with some of our
needs.
Mayor Pro-Term asked about grant option. She stated that she had to lean on the
expertise of Mayor Alt and Chief Coring experts in policing.
Aldermen Mosteller stated her opposition to this action. She noted the police
department would not fit in the old city hall building with allowable square
feet. She also stated her support for holding planning meetings with the arts
group to here their side.
Aldermen Carroll stated he wished the motion was different that named the use
of the building and then he might could support it.
Aldermen Spencer stated he could not name right now what would go in the
building but agreed we need to use building's the city owns and not rent
private space.
Mayor Alt stated this motion is needed to say the building will be used for
government use, and staff can go forward with options.
Aldermen Davis made a motion to retain the old city hall/courthouse building
for city government use, seconded by Aldermen Spencer. Motion Carried 4-2 with
Aldermen Mosteller and Carroll voting No.
E. Adjourn
Aldermen Carroll made a motion to adjourn, seconded by Aldermen Carroll.
Unanimous vote;
Motion carried at 9:59 AM.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3259.jpg]
December 12, 2024
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN REGULAR MEETING
December 12, 2024223 E. BAY STREET
SOUTHPORT, N.C.   6:00 PM
 
REGULAR MEETING
Present: 
Mayor Rich Alt, Mayor Pro-
Tern Rebecca Kelley, Aldermen Karen Mosteller, Lowe Davis, Robert Carroll, and
Frank Lai.
Absent: 
Marc Spencer
Staff: 
City Manager Stuart Turille, City Clerk Noah Saldo, Public Information Officer
ChyAnn
Ketchum, City Engineer Tom Zilinek, Police Chief Todd Coring, Community Relations Director Allayna
Dail, Police Major Tony Burke, Fire Chief Charles Drew, City Attorney Brady Herman, and Deputy City
Clerk Tori Deviney.
A.   Mayor Alt called the meeting to order at 6:00 PM.
B.   Rev. Sally Learned, Executive Director of Brunswick County Partnership
for Housing, gave the invocation.
C.   Mayor Alt led the Pledge of Allegiance.
D.   Special Recognition
1.   Recognition of Police Major Tony Burke on the occasion of his retirement
Mayor Alt and Police Chief Coring presented Major Burke with a resolution and
other items on the occasion of his retirement.
2.   Recognition of Chris Schnell for his extraordinary volunteer service as Chair of the
Southport Wooden Boat Show
Mayor Alt presented Mr. Schnell with a resolution in recognition
of his dedication to volunteering at the wooden boat show.
E.   Public Comment
Mayor Alt read the ethics statement
Kay Ross of 5205 White Ibis Ct spoke about the action of the Aldermen related
to the old city hall building at the special Aldermen December 12th meeting.
She stated she was disappointed the arts group was not able to have a meeting
with the Aldermen regarding their vision for the building.
Brad
Sevaldson of 226 Sand Dollar In spoke about his dissatisfaction with the Aldermen's decision on the
old city hall building.
City Clerk Saldo read an emailed public comment from Bonnie Bray of 515 Quarter Master Drive
regarding her disappointment with the Aldermen's decision on the old city
hall building.
Aldermen Carroll made a motion to close public comment, seconded by Mayor Pro-
Tern Kelley.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
F.   Approval of Agenda
Aldermen Carroll made a motion to approve the agenda
with the removal of item H4 Franklin Square Park, seconded by Mayor Pro-Tern
Kelley.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
G.   Approval of the Consent Agenda
Mayor Pro-
Tern Kelley made a motion to approve the following consent agenda items, seconded
by Aldermen Lai.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
1.   Minutes of the November 4th Regular Aldermen Meeting
2.   Minutes of the November 14th Regular Aldermen Meeting
3.   2025 Aldermen Meeting Schedule
H.   Agenda
1.   Public hearing on Rezoning and PUD Modification for Gades Cove Subdivision
Aldermen Mosteller made a motion to open the public hearing, seconded by Aldermen
Carroll.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried at 7:32 PM
Planning Services Director Maureen Meehan presented the following:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3292.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3294.png]
Rick Jones of 828 Gades Trail and President of the Gades Cove Homeowners Association presented the
following:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3298.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3296.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3300.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3302.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3304.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3306.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3308.png]
 
Tommy Younts of 285 Lord Thomas Ave spoke in favor of the Gades Cove request.
Marty Younts of 285 Lord Thomas Ave spoke in Favor of the Gades Cove request.
Jack Housenger of 284 Lord Thomas Ave spoke in Favor of the Gades Cove request.
? Freeman of 915 Roscoe Freeman Ave asked to work with the neighborhood
to reach an agreement with all parties involved without closing a gate.
G Fields of 1019 S 7th Wilmington
spoke about working together to find a resolution acceptable to all involved.
Virginia Jordan of 509 Gades Trail spoke in Favor of the Gades Cove request.
City Clerk Saldo read a letter from Dirk Mroczek
of 305 Lord Thomas Ave in Favor of the Gades Cove request.
Bill Veno of 272 Lord Thomas Ave spoke in Favor of the Gades Cove request.
City Clerk Saldo
read an email received from Kevin Wall of 816 Gades Trail in Favor of the Gades Cove
request.
Bill Howell of 832 Gades Trail spoke in Favor of the Gades Cove request.
City Clerk Saldo read an email received from Kevin Shea in Favor of the Gades Cove request.
Lora Sharkey of 432 Gades Trail spoke in opposition to the Gades Cove request.
City Clerk Saldo read an email received from Tom Hale of 426
Lord Charles in Favor of the Gades Cove request.
Warren Whitley of 432 Gades Trail spoke in opposition
to the Gades Cove request.
Brian Stevens of 503 Gades Trail spoke in Favor of the Gades Cove request.
The Board asked questions of the HOA members and Director Meehan.
Mayor Pro-
Tern made a motion to close the public hearing, seconded by Aldermen Lai.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried at 8:29 PM.
Mayor Alt declared a recess at 8:30 PM.
Mayor Alt called the meeting back to order at 8:38 PM.
2.   Right of Way Ordinance Update
Planning Services Director Maureen Meehan presented the following:
 
 
The Board discussed the proposed ordinance and asked the question of Director Meehan.
Mayor Alt stated "I am categorically against this action, I see no reason
to incur the wrath of an Untold number of citizens for no immediate need.
We have the right to go in, we have the right to rip the right away
up if we want to. I see no reason to go through this because
we're going to do nothing except have
hoot nanny going on for months to come and we have so many issues
in front of us that are more
. .;nding and more important than to get bogged down in this
action I am categorically against it. Aldermen Mosteller made a motion to adopt
the proposed ordinance with a six-month grace from enforcement,
and any active code enforcement
cases started prior to the adoption of this ordinance shall
remain in place, seconded by Aldermen Carroll. Motion carried 4-
1 with Mayor Pro-Tern Kelley Voting No.
 
3.   Specialty Southport License Plate (ChyAnn Ketchum, Public Information
Officer)
Public Information Officer ChyAnn Ketchum presented the following options for a
specialty uthport license plate:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3310.png]
The Board discussed the proposed ordinance and asked the question of Director
Meehan.
Mayor Alt stated "I am categorically against this action, I see no reason to
incur the wrath of an Untold number of citizens for no immediate need. We have
the right to go in, we have the right to rip the right away up if we want to. I
see no reason to go through this because we're going to do nothing except have
hoot nanny going on for months to come and we have so many issues in front of
us that are more . ..:nding and more important than to get bogged down in this
action I am categorically against it.
Aldermen Mosteller made a motion to adopt the proposed ordinance with a six-
month grace from enforcement, and any active code enforcement cases started
prior to the adoption of this ordinance shall remain in place, seconded by
Aldermen Carroll. Motion carried 4-1 with Mayor Pro-Tem Kelley Voting No.
3. Specialty Southport License Plate (ChyAnn Ketchum, Public Information
Officer)
Public Information Officer ChyAnn Ketchum presented the following options for a
specialty Southport license plate:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3312.png]
The Board provided feedback
on the options that they liked. Ms. Ketchum will revise the options and bring
them back in January.
4.   Aldermen Rules of Procedure (Mayor Alt)
Mayor Alt presented a new amendment to the Board of Aldermen Rules
of Procedure. The new rule states all documents
should be received before the Aldermen's
Meeting and limits most presentations to fifteen minutes.
Aldermen Carroll made a motion to adopt the proposed rule amendment, seconded by Aldermen
Lai.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
I.   Committee Reports
Aldermen Lai provided an update from the ABC Board.
J.   Manager's Report
City Manager Turille presented the following report:
1.   Sidewalk construction between East Owens Street and Dosher Hospital:
NC Board of Transportation approved the project and funding ($225,000);
Design plans 90% complete and construction anticipated September 2025.
2.   2024 Winterfest: is going well with the Tree lighting, multiple events,
the well-planned and received Winter Tea and the upcoming
Christmas parade this Friday. Good job Allayna and team (Allayna to give a
short update).
3.   Weather Tower Capital Project:
With the passage of the Budget Amendment for this project, and sufficient funds
for the Weather tower
now in hand, the project is a Capital Project under staff supervision. We are developing
a Capital Project Schedule for the construction of the Tower, which
will include consultation with the State Historic Preservation
Office for the Design, including any historical markers, commemorations and plaques. I will
be the Project Lead, working with staff, as we move forward.
4.   Indigo/Waterway: the County Planning Board recommended approval
to the County Board of Commissioners at their 12/9 meeting. The development
consists of 1,100 units and 100,000 SF of
nonresidential uses. The staff team is studying
fiscal impacts on our service levels of this and other projects.
5.   Maritime Museum:
 staff met with Friends of the Maritime Museum at Southport to coordinate
implementation of a new fire suppression system, at State expense.
6.   Old City Hall Upgrade:
 receiving proposals for the HVAC system on December 19; awarding a contract at
the January Board meeting.
7.   Free Downtown WIFA:
free WiFi is available in downtown Southport for guests in the four-
block radius of N. Caswell & W. Nash,
W. Nash & Howe, Howe and W. Bay, W. Bay & S. Caswell. To join the network,
from the settings on your smartphone, select "City of Southport Guest" or "Park
Guest," and you will be connected."
 
K.   Mayor's Comments
Mayor Alt commented on the great work with the Winter Fest and the Light Up Night Christmas parade
tomorrow.
L.    Staff Reports
Public Works report included in the agenda packet.
M.    Board Comments
Aldermen Davis stated several opportunities
had been given to the arts group to present to the Board regarding the old city
hall building.
Mayor Pro-Tern Kelley stated that the motion regarding the old
city hall building was to use it for government purposes,
not as a guarantee for the police department. She also stated that she and her
children were looking forward to the Christmas parade.
Aldermen Lai echoed the Board's comments and stated that there were many events this time of
year.
N.    Closed Session NCGS 143-318.11
Mayor Pro-Tern Kelley made a motion to go into closed session pursuant
to NCGS 143-318.11 (3) To
consult with an attorney employed or retained by the public body in order to preserve the attorney-
client privilege between the attorney and the public body, which privilege
is hereby acknowledged.
(5) To establish, or to instruct the public body's staff or negotiating
agents concerning the position to be
taken by or on behalf of the public body in negotiating 
(i) the price and other material terms of a contract or proposed contract
for the acquisition of real property by purchase, option, exchange, or lease;
or (ii) the amount of compensation and other material terms of an employment
contract or proposed employment
contract. Seconded by Aldermen Lai. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried at 9:45 PM.
Mayor Pro-
tern Kelley made a motion to come out of closed session, seconded by Aldermen
Carrol, Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried at 10:12:02 PM
O.   Adjourn
Aldermen Carroll made a motion to adjourn, seconded by Mayor Pro-Tern Kelley.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried at 10:12:11 PM.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/199f40a54a06f19a9324bf64df539e216304d812/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3330.jpg]
2025
January 9, 2025
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN Regular Meeting Minutes
January 9, 2025   223 E. BAY STREET
SOUTHPORT, N.C.   6:00 P.M.
 
PRESENT:   Mayor Richard Alt
Mayor Pro-Tern Rebecca Kelley
Aldermen Marc Spencer, Robert Carroll, Frank Lai, Lowe Davis, Karen Mosteller
STAFF:   Stuart Turille, City Manager
Noah Saldo, City Clerk Brady Herman, City Attorney Charles Drew, Fire Chief
Ralph Treadway, Fire Battalion Chief Maureen Meehan, Planning Services Director
Todd Coring, Police Chief
ChyAnn Ketchum, Public Information Officer Larry Ditton, Energy Manager
A.   Call to Order
Mayor Alt called the meeting to order at 6:00 PM.
B.   Invocation
Mr. Donnie Joyner gave the invocation.
C.   Pledge of Allegiance
Mayor Alt led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D.   Remembrance of Former President Jimmy Carter
Mayor Alt introduced Mr. Howie Franklin, Director of the Cape Fear Regional
Jetport. Mr. Franklin addressed the Board and audience
and spoke affectionately about his time as
Chief Stewart on Air Force One for five Presidents
and his experiences with President Carter.
He spoke highly of President Carter as being calm, collected, soft spoken, a teacher, an engineer,
a common sense gentleman and a great negotiator.
Mr. Franklin recalled the New Year's Day 1990 southern
style dinner served on Air Force One of  ham, collard greens,
black eyes peas and cornbread. He told of a moment he would never forget aboard
the back up Air Force One aircraft with a delegation sent by President Reagan
to the funeral of King Hussein ofJordan; Richard Nixon, President
Ford, President Carter, Mrs. Carter, and Henry Kissinger. He told a humorous
bathroom incident involving President Carter, President Ford, Henry Kissinger
and Richard Nixon.
Mr. Franklin shared that during his service to five Presidents
on Air Force One he had personally witnessed each of them reading the Bible.
E.   Public Comment
Mr. Rick Jones, 828 Cades Trail, thanked the Board for consideration of a
rezoning amendment regarding the gating of Cades Cove subdivision. He stated
his opinion that the situation is unique and should
not set a precedent that leads to a cascading of gating requests. He believes
sensible standards can be created to limit such requests to residential
developments receiving out of the ordinary cut through traffic. He spoke of the
talented volunteer and professional residents committed to serving the City of
Southport. He pointed out that a recent letter had been sent
to the City Clerk asking that if anyone saw fit to put forth a motion accepting
the amendment that specific conditions be included:
•   Guarantee to open the gate or gates in the event of any weather emergency.
Gate will remain open during the 4 th of July high traffic event.
•   In the event of an emergency situation on Robert Ruark Drive that cuts off
the
street from Cades Trail to Howe Street, the HOA will work with first responders
to keep gates open and traffic flowing until such time passage is restored.
•   HOA will work on technology solutions to allow emergency workers
to open the gate(s) themselves.
Mr. Craig Blanks, General Manager of the Frying Pan Restaurant, and property
owner of 102 S. Caswell Avenue, spoke to the Board about the proposed Parking
Overlay in the Yacht Basin. He pointed out that there are three (3), not four
(4) as reported, residential lots to be affected by the overlay; 309 W. Moore
Street, 102 S. Caswell Avenue, and the comer of West Bay Street and Caswell
Avenue. He recalled the last conversation with Joe Pat Hatem, Interim City
Manager Bonnie Therrian, Paul and Marie Swenson, Jim and Bridget Chirico,
Shorty and himself when Mr. Hatem stated, "If it ain't broke, don't fix
it." Mr. Blanks stated that each property owner indicated they would not spend
an estimated $50,000 per lot to build berms and landscaping. Mr. Blanks
indicated that he had purchased the "Yoga" lot within the past year, had
removed the chain, opened for parking and spent approximately $30,000 bordering
and graveling the lot. He added that he did not restrict parking and had closed
his lots for the annual Wooden Boat Show and other city :functions. He noted
that Messrs. Swenson and Chirico did not restrict parking. Mr. Blanks indicated
that he, Mr. Swenson and Mr. Chirico are willing to border and gravel their
respective parking lots but currently there is no #57 stone available. Mr.
Blanks pointed out that a building permit for a five (5) bedroom house at 102
S. Caswell Avenue could be obtained as a use by rights. Additionally, he stated
that 102 S. Caswell Avenue had previously been offered to City Manager Bruce
Oakley for a $1 annual lease for public parking.
Responding to a question by Alderman Carroll, Mr. Blanks indicated that
Mr. Swenson has a parking lot that is zoned commercial and is not included
in the discussion. Alderman Davis noted that parking is allowed in commercial
zoning.
David Mchattie, 205 E. West Street, spoke about Franklin Square Park. He
suggested any changes to the park be kept simple and natural. He recommended
fixing the stage, turning the old pump into a fountain, leaving parking spaces
for golf carts, keep the live music events, and reopening
the park for Winterfest. He talked about the current
bright lighting and suggested glass be installed in the fixtures. He stated
appreciation for the flood light being turned off. Mr.
Mchattie spoke about the bright lights being installed around the City and specifically
a replaced street light at the comer of W. West Street and College Street that
in his opinion is "insanely" bright. Emphasizing the Board is trying to address
the lighting issue, Mayor Alt stated the Ad Hoc Lighting Committee consisting
of Alderman Mosteller, Davis, and Carroll had been reinstituted.
Ms. Christine Wright, 211 N. Lord Street stated support of the Parks &
Recreation Committee's Franklin Square Park recommendation on the agenda for
consideration by the Board of Aldermen. She pointed out that the Committee
and City staff had spent countless hours surveying, listening to public
comments, doing their due diligence and a great job of compromise. She stated
her hope that the Aldermen will consider the recommendation and proceed with
getting the park open.
Mr. Michael Proctor, 312 N. Atlantic Avenue, a 60 year resident and owner of a
3 rd generation 100 year old wholesale nursery and past president ofNorth
Carolina Nurseryman's Association and a board member of the North Carolina
Landscape Contractor's Registration Board, spoke to the Board. He stated
his primary focus of discussion regarding Franklin Square
Park was the City of Southport periodically stripping all the organic material
from the ground in the park. He stated the organic
material is vitally important to the health of any tree and if, in the future,
the City continually strips all the organic material out of the area, they're
going to continue to have problems with the trees. Noting that the soils
in this area are sand, Mr. Proctor pointed out that to have a lush green and
grassy park is unnatural to this environment and it would cost a fortune to
institute it. He added that keeping the park lush and green would be a
continual expense into the future.
City Clerk Saldo read the following emailed comments into the record:
From Betsy Johnston; "Tonight I'm writing in regards to Franklin Square Park.
Based on the arborist reports and the facts that the park has been deemed to
have the ability to stand up to 30 to 40 events per year, I feel that Franklin
Park is the most central and appropriate location for the Summer Market,
concerts and other events. As in the past years, let's continue to hold the
events there that are so enjoyed by our community while responsibly managing
and maintaining the beauty and health of the park. It seems clear that both
goals can be achieved. Thank you for your attention and consideration of this
issue. "
From Chris and Tina Clark; "We are writing to you in regards to Franklin Square
Park.
Walking through the park recently we stopped to read the engraved historical
marker placed there and it reads in part that this site for this public park
was given to the town of Smithville which was named in
honor of Governor Benjamin Smith. His legacy provides that the land in this
Square shall be used for educational, fraternal, religious and
recreational purposes. Thanks to this deal, the citizens of Southport have
enjoyed many community events and celebrations in Franklin Square Park since
the governor's donation of this beautiful piece of land many years
ago. We enjoy the park and greatly appreciate the concerns and effort to
protect and preserve it. The City of Southport made a financial commitment by
hiring an arborist and a park consultant to evaluate the health of the trees
and make recommendations regarding the best use of the park. We have attended
several of Dr. Hirstein 'spark meetings and after reading his report and
also the arborist report, we agree with Dr. Hirstein 's conclusion presented
in his September 11, 2024 report that over the course of a 12-month period
there will only need to be 30 to 40 organized events conducted in the park,
a number which the park can successfully manage, with proper maintenance and
diligent management. We hope you will vote to accept the carefully considered
recommendation of the Parks and Recreation Board regarding the future use of
Franklin Square Park."
F.   Board Comments
Mayor Alt stated that items F. and G. were added to the agenda to provide
Aldermen with an opportunity to comment about what was heard in public
comment. He pointed out that otherwise
people see the Board sitting stone faced, not replying, and people
walk out thinking the Board is not listening and not caring. He stated the
Board does listen and does care.
Alderman Davis reported that a committee meeting will be held Wednesday,
January 15 at the Indian Trail Meeting Hall to look at all street lighting
options. She assured the public that the Board has seen the offensive lights
and are working on a solution.
Alderman Kelley spoke about the Yacht Basin parking. She stated that if the
three owners are in agreement of what needs to happen, then the Board should
move quickly to get the situation taken care of.
Alderman Spencer stated appreciation for Mr. Proctor speaking to the Board
regarding the Franklin Square
Park trees' health and maintaining the park in a simple and natural condition.
He emphasized his support for the costs to be incurred to properly maintain the
park.
Stating it was refreshing to hear someone say "leave the mulch" on the ground,
Aldermen Lai spoke about a recent meeting he had with Amy Mead of the North
Carolina State Extension Service, who said the same thing.
Referring to Alderman Kelley's comments, Alderman
Mosteller suggested an overlay text amendment be put on the Planning Board's
next agenda. Planning Director Meehan indicated the topic was already
scheduled.
Mayor Alt thanked Mr. Banks for speaking and sharing the agreement reached by
the property owners of the Yacht Basin to resolve parking issues. Mayor
Alt pointed out that putting down stone would be best accomplished in the
Winter when the businesses are closed.
G.   Mayor's Comments
Mayor Alt spoke about placing historical signs in the Yacht Basin.
Mayor Alt reported that a temporary air conditioning system for the Old City
Hall structure, 201 E. Moore Street, had been obtained for a one time charge
of$33,000 instead of the estimated $98,000 annually. He pointed out that
the air conditioning units could later be moved to different city buildings in
need of upgraded air condition systems.
H.   Approval of Agenda
Alderman Mosteller made a motion to remove from the agenda Item 5, Review of
Southport Street Lighting Policy and Resident's Concerns, seconded
by Alderman Davis. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
Mayor Alt read the Ethics Statement:
"If any members know of any conflict of interest or the appearance
of a conflict of interest concerning matters on the agenda, please so state at
this time"
No conflicts stated.
Alderman Mosteller made a motion to approve the agenda as amended, seconded by
Alderman Carroll. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
I.   Approval of Consent Agenda
Alderman Mosteller made a motion to approve the following consent
agenda items as presented, seconded by Alderman Carroll. Unanimous Vote; Motion
Carried.
1.   Minutes of December 2, 2024 Regular Aldermen Meeting
2.   Old City Hall/Courthouse HVAC
J.   Agenda
1.   Cape Fear Regional Jetport Update
Board of Alderman Airport
Commission Liaison, Mr. Fred "Flick" Guerrina addressed the Board. He stated he
was an Air Force pilot, flew all sizes of aircraft, went to Vietnam, has civil
engineering experience and moved to Southport 20 years ago. He noted that
he replaced Mr. Owen Gamer, another Air Force pilot, on the Commission and
he spoke about the creation of the Commission by the State Legislature. Mr.
Guerrina spoke highly of Mr. Franklin's management of the airport
and the airport improvements Mr. Franklin has facilitated during his tenure.
Mr. Franklin reported on the airport's financial well being and contributions to the
area.
•   He came to the area 31 years ago.
•   The airport is an independent municipality.
•   30 years ago the North Carolina State University did an economic
impact study for the airport which was $40,000 annually with a budget of
$775,000.
•   Current budget is $1.6 million
•   The economic impact in 2021 was $280 million
•   The economic impact in 2023 was $380 million
Current economic impact is $557 million resulting
in $35 million tax dollars for the County and surrounding communities.
Mr. Franklin spoke about a gentleman who recently flew into the airport
in an $83 million jet and that manages an $800 billion company. Mr. Franklin
noted that the airport provides public service in the event of emergencies and
after Hurricane Helene over 200 airplanes with
goods and services were sent to western North Carolina. Mr. Franklin shared
a recent incident of a young boy hitting his head on a piling while tubing on
the Intracoastal Waterway and his life saved after being airlifted to Duke. Mr.
Franklin stated the airport is also used by NC Wildlife personnel and the
military for training exercises. Mr. Franklin spoke highly of the Airport
Commission Chair Mr. Willie Gore, Southport native and full Colonel 82 nd
Airborne. Mr.
Franklin reported about a soon to be published
press release which will highlight the airport's number 4 placement out of
62 airports in the State. He talked about the efforts to get an
executive business jet based at the airport
which would result in the same tax value as 30 front row houses. Mr. Franklin
invited all to visit the airport.
2.   Rezoning and PUD Modification for Cade Cove Subdivision
Planning Services Director Maureen Meehan outlined the request submitted by the Cades
Cove Subdivision Home Owners Association (HOA) for a rezoning and modification
of their planned unit development to dedicate the streets as private and add a
gate to their entrance and exit off Robert Ruark Drive. She indicated that
a Public Hearing was held December 12, 2024 along with Board questions and
discussions with applicant and staff. She noted that the streets are currently
classified as public vehicular areas, traffic enforcement is allowed
but limited, and the subdivision is fully covered with Police, Fire and EMS
protection with or without a gate.
Director Meehan gave a brief summary of the proposal.
•   The proposal is inconsistent
with the CAMA Core Land Use Plan and the Unified Development Ordinance (UDO).
•   A gate would cut off interconnectivity within the neighborhood.
•   The Planning Board has recommended denial of the rezoning and master plan
development modification.
Responding to a query by Alderman Davis, Director Meehan, stated the applicants had
provided a plan for access of emergency service vehicles via siren initiated
gate openings.
Alderman Davis pointed out there are easy biking and walking access to the
subdivision.
She shared her view that the City has been unfair to the residents by requiring
the residents of Cades Cove to take care of the roads and drainage while every
car that goes over those roads causes damage. She indicated there are two
issues: 1. allow the gate and they continue to maintain the roads at their
own expense, 2. No gate and the City takes over the roads. She stated
her opinion that the City cannot afford to take over the roads and it is unfair
to force them to put up with the hardships they described and the massive
amount of traffic.
Alderman Mosteller expressed
her appreciation for the work the Cades Cove Community
has put into trying to solve the issues
with infrastructure and their 2018 $400,000 commitment to resolve the
issues. She pointed out that in 2018 there were discussions with the City
Manager and City Planner but no action was taken at that time to accept streets
Majesty's Court, Lord Thomas and N. Caswell Court. She emphasized it was
incumbent on the City to work out a plan with the HOA to accept
the streets. Alderman Mosteller stated that the reasoning offered by
the HOA to gate the community states that the Cades Cove HOA would like to remain an
active part of the Southport community and cut-
through traffic has posed a pedestrian
safety concern for the members of their community.
I certainly understand that concern... pedestrian safety is a city-
wide concern. All
over town, more people walk in the road than use the sidewalks." She referenced the
Unified Development Ordinance (UDO) Article 48 B. 3. that recognizes
the importance of street interconnectivity to protect the public health safety
and welfare, to ensure that streets will function in an interdependent manner
to provide adequate access for emergency and service vehicles, to enhance non-
vehicular traffic and to provide continuous and comprehensive traffic routing,
street layout within a subdivision shall be coordinated with the existing
street system.
Alderman Mosteller briefly spoke about the increased
use of bicycles and golf carts throughout Southport.
Alderman Kelley spoke about the inordinate cost to bring the Cades Cove subdivision
streets up to City standards.
Alderman Mosteller made a motion to "accept the Planning Board's
recommendation, to deny the PUD map amendment and master development
plan as presented and approve the consistency statement for denying the
amendment and ask the Cades Cove HOA to consider
submitting a formal request for the streets to be accepted additionally upon receipt of a request for
the streets to be accepted that the City will schedule and fund a CCTV
stormwater system review and the City engineer will inspect the streets to
determine if they are constructed to the minimum City standards, review
of the streets should include an evaluation of the street lights
for future acceptance as well"  Alderman Carroll seconded the motion.
Alderman Davis recalled the Public Services Director talking to the Board about
why Cades Cove streets are not city streets and a general
idea about the cost to bring the streets up to standards. She questioned
if acceptance of the streets is even something the City can afford to
consider with it's current budget. She reiterated her concerns about fairness
and she spoke about the City's obligations to the taxpayers.
Alderman Kelley agreed there are two options at this time; have a plan to move
forward towards acceptance of the streets or allow for Cades Cove
to gate themselves. She spoke about
the upcoming large Indigo Phase 2 development
that will impact the area. She suggested tabling the agenda item until the cost
of street upgrades could be determined.
Alderman Carroll pointed out that the Indigo development will have connectivity, will not
be gated and he speculated the development will have the same traffic issues
that Cades Cove is experiencing. A map of the development was
displayed. Expressing his appreciation towards Cades Cove, Alderman Carroll
stated his opinion the Board strives to be fair and do its due diligence.
Mayor Alt stated that Attorney Herman has a document from another development
requesting discussions about their private roads and traffic
concerns. He stated the City has culpability to this issue
because, for the past sixteen years, the ordinance was not changed to require
the streets built to city standards prior to selling lots. Along
with discussing budget constraints, Mayor Alt stated his support for the gate
and Alderman Kelley's suggestion of tabling a vote until such time as a cost to
upgrade the streets is obtained.
Alderman Carroll emphasized that the Cades Cove Subdivision was approved with
the intention of the City accepting the streets. Noting that increased traffic
all over the city is being forced into places
people don't want traffic to be, Alderman Carroll spoke about the residents on
public streets Stewart and Fadale Avenues, deserving protection.
Addressing the Board from the podium, Mr. Jones stated
that twenty years ago the initial developer and subsequent developers dedicated
the streets as public right of ways. He noted that
in the twenty years since, the City did nothing to facilitate
a transaction. Additionally, he pointed out the dedication of the streets to
the City was for a 15-year term of which four of nine dedications have expired
and dedication cannot be tried without the HOA concurrence. Noting
the attention major arteries such as Rob Gandy Boulevard, Jabbertown
Road, Robert Ruark Drive and Howe Street have had, Mr. Jones asked the Board
to address the traffic volumes and safety concerns ofresidentially designed
streets as well for the exodus of people from the city.
Alderman Carroll
asked Mr. Jones how the City threw more traffic into Cades Cove. Mr. Jones
referenced the approvals of additional subdivisions in the area; Osprey
Landing, and Brunswick County approvals oflndigo Plantation Phase II and
fifteen houses in Harper Acres directly across from Southport Way. Mr. Jones
spoke about the flooding of the area during severe storms resulting in washed
out roads of the two ways in and out of the city. Alderman Carroll pointed out
that Indigo and Osprey were vacant when Cades Cove was developed. Mr.
Jones stated that when he and many others bought their homes, the developer
(Cardinal Builders) told them the area oflndigo was environmental wetlands and
would never be built on.
Mayor Alt pointed out that those cutting through are typically trying to
save time, are speeding and do not stop at stop signs and unless the Police can
charge them with reckless driving or DWI, tickets cannot
be written. Alderman Mosteller agreed and stated if the streets were city
streets, there would be full traffic enforcement.
Mayor Alt recommended following Alderman Kelley's suggestion to table the item,
determine the cost to the city to accept the streets. Alderman Kelley noted
that a precedent would be set if the city paid to bring
the streets up to standards and accepted them then two other neighborhoods
would want the city to do the same for their development. Alderman Mosteller
pointed out that the Cades Cove HOA have had a huge amount of work done on
the streets.
Mayor Alt speculated that the answer
to the cost to bring the streets up to standards should be obtainable by the
Board's February meeting. Noting that the HOA had already spent over $300,000
to repair a section of the storm water system, Mr. Jones stated the HOA
had been told by the City that they would have to pay to have a CCTV inspection
of the entire storm water system. Mayor Alt stated that another development is
in a similar situation with their storm water system. Mr. Jones asked what
size of bond new developers should be posting and what requirements are in
place to inspect the storm water system 20 years in the future. Alderman
Mosteller stated that the UDO was updated in 2020 addressing the storm water
concerns.
Alderman Kelley concurred and pointed out that performance
bonds are no longer required; all infrastructure has to be installed prior to
final plat.
Alderman Davis spoke to the issue of connectivity, allowing access for people
on bicycles, golf carts, etc. but not for vehicles. She noted that the plan
proposed by the HOA provides emergency access through a gate and access during
a disaster. She questioned why the discussion of spending money that the city
does not have just for the ideal of vehicular
connectivity. Alderman Mosteller emphasized that the idea of connectivity
is healthy community and has real planning purpose, is in the UDO and and
valued by the Board. She volunteered to
reframe her motion and table the item. Attorney Brady advised
that there is no limit on how long things can be tabled.
Alderman Mosteller changed her motion;
"we would table the decision regarding the PUD map amendment and the master
plan development plan as presented.  "
City Manager Turille indicated
that the city had met with Mr. Jones, staff and engineering staff to explain
the steps for acceptance of the street. He stated there is a very clear outline
of steps including CCTV work to show the status of the stormwater
and further steps to confirm the streets meet city standards. He stated the
city does not pay for the CCTV work.
Alderman Mosteller reframed her original motion to include; "a request
for the streets to be accepted, the city would schedule and fund a CCTV
stormwater review and the city engineer will inspect the streets to determine
if they're constructed to minimum City standards and review of the streets
should include an evaluation also of the street lights."  Alderman Carroll
seconded the motion.
Discussion
Mr. Carroll asked the Planning Director why the Board was having the
conversation for accepting the streets when the development had not requested
acceptance. Director Meehan indicated a previous request had been
made. Mr. Jones concurred and stated that in 2018, when Bruce Oakley was the
City Manager and Thomas Lloyd the City Planner, a file search request
was submitted and it was found that at that time the streets wouldn't
be accepted until the streets were brought up to DOT standards. He added that
since that time (six years and four city managers) the HOA has been tracking
the expiration of the dedications of the streets by the
original developer. He continued; "The current Cades Cove community
overwhelmingly says the streets are no longer available to the city and
the HOA is here trying to help the city and willing to be a case history and
change what best practices are. We're not offering the streets and four
of the nine have already expired. 11 Mr. Jones pointed out that the Article
oflncorporation for the subdivision had been amended to allow the addition of
streets as common property that in tum allows the board of directors to make
assessments for the maintenance. He noted that a
September 22 vote by the residents was 83 affirmative responses, seven 
(7) negative responses to the revised Articles of Incorporation and
assessments.
Alderman Carroll expressed his confusion. Director Meehan explained the process
of accepting subdivision streets; "When the subdivision preliminary
plat is approved, the developer and the community will come and
say we want private streets or we want public streets with the understanding
that once all of the infrastructure has been installed and up to standards,
they would come to the city and request for the city to take over the roads. 11
Alderman Davis emphasized that four of the nine streets have already been designated
as private and the HOA has been clear they are not going to ask that
the streets be made public.
Alderman Kelley asked when the additional
street dedications expire. Mr. Jones indicated that one expires in 2026, three
in 2028 and the last one in 2029.
Alderman Lai pointed out that the developers of Cades Cove "did a number
on you guys, twice.  "He acknowledged the HOA had spent a tremendous amount of
money trying to rectify the situation and agreed with Alderman Kelley that a
cost to upgrade the streets needs to be obtained so a decision can be made that
is fair to the people of Cades Cove and fair to the people who are in Southport
now and who are coming here.
Alderman Carroll asked if the community would entertain two gates. Mr. Jones
responded that at the Planning Board meeting, the HOA said it would consider
two gates;
however, the HOA felt that two gates would work against connectivity. He added that this PUD
submittal process is currently at 15 months. He added
that the community came to the city with what they believe is a win-win
solution. He spoke about the residents being 100% full paying
city taxpayers. Responding to a question from Alderman Carroll, Mr. Jones
responded that the residents of Smithville Woods would become acclimated
to Cades Cove no longer being a pass through. Alderman Kelley speculated
on offering paid passes. Mr. Jones shared an opinion of former City Planner,
Travis Henley, who said every development in Southport should look like Cades
Cove.  Mr. Jones stated; "this perpetual behavior is only going to work
to denigrate one of your nicer neighborhoods, like ours, who bear
the brunt of a lot of it (traffic), not all of it but quite a bit. "
Alderman Carroll questioned ifthere should be a conversation about two (2)
gates.
Alderman Davis stated her understanding that the community welcomed
people coming into the subdivision while denying a thoroughfair to Robert Ruark
Avenue. Alderman Kelley added that signage had been installed indicating no
through traffic. Mr. Jones stated people ignore the signage. He added that a
two gate offer was made by the community if it meant getting a yes from the
Board of Aldermen. He spoke about the behavior of motorists towards the
residents, the safety risks and wear and tear on the streets. He indicated
that the community did not like the second gate option because it cuts down the
connectivity, people can come and go around the pond and look at the
neighborhood, get building ideas.
Alderman Lai asked why a gate is proposed
on Robert Ruark Avenue and not on Caswell Avenue. Mr. Jones responded that
the community owns the access on Robert Ruark. He added that a request was made
to their attorney to find a comparison to the situation of two-time developer
abandonment and the attorney could not find one. He reiterated that many case
histories could be presented about peoples behavior.
Stressing the point of safety, Alderman Carroll shared his opinion that gating
the community on two ends is the only solution, otherwise people
are still coming in and if they get to that next gate they're going to be mad
and speeding out of the community faster than they went in. Alderman
Davis stated the issue could be simplified by the Board voting to allow them
to gate their roads one way and if they find out it creates an even greater
problem, they have the okey to put in a second gate.
Clerk Saldo read Alderman Mosteller's motion;
"Table the decision regarding the PUD map amendment and the Master Plan
Development plan as presented and ask the Cades Cover HOA to consider
submitting a formal request for the streets to be accepted,
additionally upon receipt of a request for the streets to be accepted, that the
City will schedule and fund a CCTV stormwater system review and the City
Engineer will inspect the streets to determine if they are constructed to the
minimum city standards, review of the streets should include an evaluation of
the street lights for future acceptance as well.  " Alderman Carroll seconded
the motion.
Alderman Kelley pointed out that Mr. Jones made it clear the community is
not going to
request street dedication. Responding to a query by Alderman Mosteller
regarding the expiration of the streets for dedication, Director Meehan stated;
"There has been a discussion on this on more than one occasion and it is our
legal council's opinion that the expiration of the dedication
alone does not negate the dedication of public roads." Attorney Herman
concurred and he noted that the original PUD was approved without a gate. He
stated his understanding that if the dedication statute is followed, offers
of dedication do not expire just by a lapse of time. He pointed out that the
applicant's attorney was not present. Mayor Alt indicated attorney discussions
would be for another time.
Emphasizing the community has spent $10,000 for the zoning application and
engineering fees, Mr. Jones stated that the requested PUD amendment was to change one word,
the street listing from "public" right of way to "private."
Alderman Carroll pointed out there was a motion to table which includes the City funding
a CCTV stormwater system review. Clerk Saldo advised that a budget amendment
would be required to allow the city to do the CCTV work. Alderman Carroll
added that there needed to be communication between the city's attorney and the
applicant's attorney for the Board to better understand the street expiration
issue.
Alderman Kelley speculated that if the attorneys conclude that the expiration
of the dedication does mean they have, by right, private roads then all the
Board needs to consider is approval of the "public to private" word
change. Alderman Davis suggested withdrawing the motion and making a new motion
to direct the city attorney to consult with the Cades Cove attorney and report
back to the Board at the next public meeting. Referencing Robert's Rules,
Mayor Alt stated the other option would be if the person making the motion
with a second, wants a vote they can do that. Alderman Mosteller amended her
motion to include the following:
"instruct the city attorney to conference with the applicant's
attorney regarding the expired street dedications and depending on that
outcome, "
"include a budget amendment to fund the CCTV stormwater system review"
Pointing out the confusion among the Board, Attorney
Herman recommended putting the discussion of the street dedications aside. He
asked Mr. Jones to state what else is included in the proposed amendment Mr.
Jones responded that the plat plan shows a gate at Robert Ruark Avenue, a
pencil line through Lord Thomas for future interest of putting up a gate, and
bollards at the end of Cades Trail. Alderman Davis asked if the motion could
be withdrawn and a simpler motion be made. Alderman Kelley reiterated the City
Manager's comments that there are other neighborhoods that would like to have a
CCTV stormwater system review and she cautioned setting a precedent.
Mayor Alt called for a vote on the motion. Ayes: Aldermen Mosteller, Carroll,
Lai Nay:   Aldermen Davis, Spencer, Kelley Nay:    Mayor Alt
Motion Failed 4-3
Alderman Kelley made a motion to instruct the City Attorney to contact the Cades Cove
attorney to determine what the legality is of the expired dedications, seconded
by Alderman Carroll. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
RECESS: 9:20 - 9:30 pm
3.   Franklin Square Park
Ms. Emma Thomas, Chair of the Southport Parks and Recreation Advisory Committee
addressed the Board. She indicated the Committee was tasked by the Board of
Alderman to
review and make recommendation based on the Franklin Square Park operational report provided
by consultant Dr. Jim Hirstein. She stated the Committee created a
list ofrecommendations that were provided to the Board in their Agenda Packet,
Page 53. She indicated the Committee focused on a plan to open the park fully
for the citizens to enjoy and to develop and overall maintenance care plan. She
referenced an attachment to the agenda for the care of Franklin
Square Park, pages 115 through 224, specifically option three 
(3) and recommendations received from Bartley Tree Experts.
Ms. Thomas stated the Committee recommends for the 2024/2025 fiscal year:
•   Staff to inspect and repair the stage, it to remain in its current location
•   Open the park for the community to enjoy activities to include, but not limited
to:
•   live concerts, movies, elementary school graduations, weddings, Easter
egg hunts, Christmas tree lighting, Christmas caroling, elementary school
plays, recitals, farmers market, religious services, dance recitals and other
activities to be announced by the Parks and Recreation Department.
•   Vehicles be limited to maintenance and emergency service vehicles
•   No staking of tie lines be used, only sandbags where permitted or where
there is a need to establish handicap park and/or golf cart parking
at the roped fenced area on E. West Street
•   The SpringFest market and Winterfest market will be reviewed and planned in
conjunction with an establishment of an ongoing maintenance plan.
Ms. Thomas further spoke about the pathways and a maintenance schedule to be
established to maintain the integrity of the park following
recommendations for annual tree assessments from Bartley Tree Company:
•   Generously mulch around trees following guidelines for the tree collars
•   Generously mulch the pathways coming into the park and refresh as needed
•   Repair the ballast stone
•   Staff obtain and investigate obtaining recycled materials for the repair work
areas
Ms. Thomas emphasized that the Committee does not recommend an irrigation
system that would be expensive and could cause damage to the tree root
system. She added that the hazardous trees and dangerous limbs have been
removed and adding mulch will help add nutrients to the sandy soil, will hold
moisture for the trees, and will help limit soil compaction during the park
events. Ms. Thomas said the Committee also recommends the yearly tree
inspection as recommended by Bartley Tree Experts, adding young trees as the
currenttrees begin to decline and age, the Parks and Recreation staff reach out
to the Beautification Committee for planting of approved plants and shrubs,
install post and rope fence around three
trees located on E. West Street at the Franklin
Square Art Gallery parking, installing a protective fence around the trees
known as the "Four Sisters," use of mulch in front of the stage, signs put
in the park as per city ordinance, rope and post parking
in the area to be provided with permeable materials along E. West and Nash
Streets, recommend removal of the large security light, add appropriate
lighting, and add more light posts as needed along the walkways.
Ms. Thomas spoke about the Committee's other recommendations:
•   The Parks and Recreation Department hire additional maintenance staff to
maintain all components of the 16 recreation facilities
•   Create a schedule to pressure wash and paint the gym
•   Repair and paint the basketball court
•   Staff work with the Forestry Committee and the Beautification Committee to
create a plan to plant native plants and shrubberies
•   Staff work with the Fire Department to remove the power box behind the Fire
Substation
•   Remove shrubbery around the tension cable located near the Baptist Church
•   Install shrubbery to conceal the power box in front of Franklin Square Art
Gallery
•   Install WiFi
Responding
to a query from Alderman Davis, City Manager Turille indicated a quote of
$2,300 was received for repairs needed on the park stage.
Alderman Davis asked why the Committee recommended mulch in front of the stage
instead ofpervious paving. She pointed out that the music events encourage
dancing and mulch would not be a good surface for that. Ms. Thomas responded
that the Committee did not recommend pavers as they would prevent
moisture in the sand going out to the trees and because they would cause
more compaction to the soil. She noted that through the information received
in multiple reports, it was learned that mulch comes in different shapes
and sizes and could be made into something that would be comfortable for people
to walk on and to dance on. Ms.
Thomas shared that the mulch will be provided
by Bianchi Landscaping Supply for a delivery charge only.
Alderman Davis asked if the Parks and Recreation Department budget has money to
implement the recommendations. Director Heather Hemphill reported that she has
funds for some of the work and anticipates getting started
immediately. She talked about a group out of Wilmington that salvages
ballast stone, etc. from older sites being sold or remodeled. She stated that
she can contact the group, request materials and are quoted a cost at the time
of request.
Alderman Kelley stated her opinion that she dislikes seeing the "Four Sisters" area fenced
because she knows that children from preschool love to climb them. She shared
her childhood experiences climbing the Indian Trail Tree, her
disappointment to find it fenced, and the impact fencing around trees has on
children wanting to be a part of nature.
Alderman Mosteller stated her appreciation to the Committee for their work on this
issue.
Alderman Davis questioned
the recommendation and stated her opinion that the language "other activities
to be announced by the Parks and Recreation Department"  should be removed
and if other activities are anticipated, the Committee
or the Parks and Recreation Director could bring the request to the Board; and
the same for vehicles. She spoke about an incident with bands bringing vehicles
into the park. Ms. Hemphill stated the only vehicles allowed in the park would
be Parks and Recreation Department maintenance truck, a contractor vehicle
needed for any cutting, and emergency response vehicles. Alderman Mosteller
stated she did not want the Parks and Recreation Department to be required to
return to the Board to ask for permission to use the park for a requested
event. She said the Board is entrusting the park's maintenance and review of
everything to staff.
Mayor Alt stated his confusion about the number of events in the park, who
is in charge of deciding when and where events take place, a third party,
Downtown Southport, Inc. (DSI), handling the events,
the responsibilities of the City's Event Coordinator and if the events stated
in the recommendation are events that will take place in the park or is the
report indicating the events that will be allowed. Director Hemphill responded
that the events listed in the recommendation fall under the purview of the
Parks and Recreation Department. The department also co-sponsors the concerts,
Winterfest, Springfest, Farmer's Market, and Plein Air with the Community
Relations Department.
Mayor Alt pointed out that DSI was no longer involved with events in the park
and the 2024 events ran smoothly with the oversight of the Parks and Recreation
Department and Community Relations Department. He questioned the estimated
75 events that could be held in the park and the impact on the park. Director
Hemphill stated her understanding that the concerns about the impact on the
park were the events that had vendors and vehicles inside the park. Responding
to a query, Director Hemphill indicated that the Farmer's Market would not be
allowed in the park proper but where there is a cement slab behind and beside
the Franklin Square Art Gallery.
Mayor Alt asked about the locations where new Live Oaks would be planted, the
area from the parking lot at the art gallery and towards the city gym would not
be a proper area to do new plantings. Other areas, i.e. behind the
fire substation and the stage area would be better.
Dr. Hirstein verified that
of his three recommendations, the number of events were identical, the
difference, one recommendation was to relocate the stage to another place and
put another feature in its place, another recommendation was for a new stage
and move the water feature towards the fire substation. He stated that all
three options recommended limiting the events to no more than 40 events.
Alderman Mosteller pointed out that small events, i.e., Easter egg hunt, small
weddings, drumming, etc. were not detrimental to the park and acceptable
for park use. Alderman Mosteller credited staffs understanding that they
are going to implement a maintenance plan and allocate
funding to better protect the park than in past years.
Stating there is a big difference between 40 and 75, Alderman
Lai stated his opinion there
needs to be a better definition of what can and cannot go on in the park. Alderman Davis
pointed  out that Dr. Hirstein's recommendations for the uses of the park align
with what the Parks and Recreation Committee recommends. She emphasized
that Dr. Hirstein repeatedly stated in his report no vendor events other than
the Farmer's Market. Ms. Thomas stated it was noted in the
maintenance plan that after implementation of the plan, looking at bringing
back events that had previously been held in the park. Speaking about the
public conflict the uses in the park has created, Mayor Alt emphasized
his opinion that there needs to be a caveat that states, "no vendors in the
park. "
Alderman Carroll asked Dr. Hirstein what activities have caused the most harm.
Dr. Hirstein replied that the heavy traffic and setup of tents. He agreed
with the Mayor that there is a perception that putting 100 vendors in the small
area and then having another 200 - 300 people walking around has been harmful
to the park.
Dr. Hirstein emphasized his opinion what would make Franklin Park a success
again:
I.   Eliminate vendors from the park (for perception purposes and for physical
purposes.
2.   Getting adequate maintenance staff in the Parks and Recreation Department.
3.   Maintenance! Establishing a maintenance plan and sticking to it.
Alderman Carroll referenced a study provided by Bartlett
Tree Service, a subject matter expert, stating that if mulch
was added to the park, a maintenance plan followed, and no stakes, the vendors
would not impact the trees.
Alderman Davis asked if the no more than40 events recommended included
the Farmers Market. Alderman Davis suggested a motion approving the Committee's
recommendation including no vendor events other than the Farmers Market and
limiting events to 40 per year.
Discussion ensued regarding what type of events the 40 per year would
entail. Alderman Mosteller stressed the importance of trusting staff to decide
the type of events. Mayor Alt emphasized that perception is important, most
of the 40 events are light events, and as written,
the wording of the recommendation gives the ability to add vendors
later without corning back to the Board. Alderman Lai stressed that the main
concern is what events are going to cause damage to the park and the adherance
to the maintenance plan. Alderman Mosteller agreed and stated that
the maintenance plan and rules of usage would drive the types of events
permitted in the park. Alderman Lai talked about the importance of preventative
maintenance.
There was a brief discussion about the installation ofWi-Fi and the annual
budget cost to maintain.
Alderman Davis made a motion to adopt the Parks and Recreation Committee's
recommendation with added terms; no vendor events in the park with the
exception of the Farmers Market to be held in the area behind the gym and not
in the main part of the park.
Motion seconded by Alderman Kelley.
Ayes: Aldermen Davis, Kelley, Lai, Spencer Nay:   Aldermen Mosteller, Carroll
4-2   Motion Carried
4.   Southport 2050 Comprehensive Plan Presentation
Director Meehan, along with Jake Petrosky and Andrea Radford with Stewart
Consulting gave a presentation of the Southport 2050 Comprehensive
Plan. Director Meehan noted that there is no request for action
by the Board. She asked the Board to review the plan recommendations and action
items and prioritize those they think are the most important. She indicated
that the plan would be sent to the Division of Coastal Management (CAMA) for
its review and comments. She asked that the Board's comments and thoughts be
provided by January 23 rd so that the final plan can be presented to the Board
at their February 3 rd meeting for consideration.
Ms. Radford gave the presentation.
•   The three phase process began in 2023
•   Phase I:   Initiation: Getting to know the community
•   Phase II:   Analysis, Visioning & Plan Development
(more getting to know the community through multiple public
engagement activities, i.e. Name the Plan Survey (50), Community Survey (536
responses), Walking Tour (20-25 people), Photo Contest, public meetings in
April and October)
Phase III:   Implementation, Adoption & Certification Ms. Radford gave an
overview of Southport's history:
•   Fort Johnston constructed in the 1740's which brought Joshua Potts and his friend
Benjamin Smith to the area
•   A plan for a city was drawn of 100 half acre lots
•   1792 Smithville established
•   In the 1800's construction began along Moore and Bay Streets (residential,
commercial, docks)
•   Post Civil War, two African-American neighborhoods were established
•   1808 Smithville named County seat
•   1870 opportunity for a major port city; city limits extended½ mile in all
directions
•   1887 Name changed to Southport 
in anticipation of growth as a major port city 1890 Local brick and lumber
companies established in Southport
•   1800 - 1900 booming construction
•   1909 there was an article in the Southport
Herald that spoke of the choices facing Southport, destroying its natural
beauty and charm
•   1978 County government departed Southport
led to store closings, Menhaden fleet ceased operations, transition of the
Yacht Basin from a working waterfront to a combination of working waterfront
and tourist destination
Why Plan?
•   Growth in Brunswick County along US 17 and NC 87 corridor
•   State Statute 160D requires the City to have a reasonable maintained
comprehensive plan to enforce zoning; minor update every five (5) years, major
update every seven (7) years
•   Population projections in the Southport area by 2035 expected
to grow by 4,300 people; current municipal growth rate is 3.4%
•   2024 Removal of Southport's Extra Territorial Jurisdiction (ETJ), HB911 and
SB382; requires coordination with Brunswick County for growth along the edges
of Southport
•   Encourage conservation design in environmentally sensitive areas
Mixed Use Development
•   Southport has long history of residential and commercial uses in one
structure
•   Supports "walkability" and reinforces historic character of a coastal
village
•   Walkability includes four (4) D's: Density, Design, Destination, Diversity
Ms. Radford provided an overview of what is in the six chapter plan and how to use
the plan:
Chapter 1    Community Concerns & Aspirations
Chapter 2     Socioeconomic Snapshot
Chapter 3    Past Planning Efforts
Chapter 4    Planning for the Future
Chapter 5    Implementing Plan Southport 2050
Chapter 6   Existing Conditions and Natural Hazards
Vision:    Broad aspiration for City of Southport
Goals:     Specific aims
Recommendations:
   Policy statements used to guide staff, boards and elected officials
Actions:   Specific steps to achieve the City's goals
Mr. Petrosky spoke about the recommendations included
in the plan. He emphasized the importance of the Board's role, their decisions
every month regarding land use and infrastructure that directly
impacts the built environment for Southport. He stated the plan is meant
to provide guidance on how to continue to shape the built and natural
environment of Southport while encouraging a development pattern that honors
Southport's historic character.
Referencing a visual display, Mr. Petrosky spoke about the follovving:
•   Residential and nonresidential character: historic neighborhoods
and traditional neighborhoods, low and medium density and low density
where emphasis is on protecting the natural environment
•   Four different areas to accommodate different scales of nonresidential uses
1.   Historical Residential Character: predominantly single family, occasional
bed & breakfast, duplexes and accessory uses
2.   Traditional Neighborhood: mostly single family, some mix of housing
including small scale attached residential, 6 units per acre
3.   Low to Medium Density: Mostly single family, 3-4 units per acre
4.   Low Density Conservation Design Character Area: ½ acre lots, smaller lots
clustered away from environmental features, minimum 40% open space. Potential
incentives for Conservation Design: up to 2.5 DUA gross density, small portion
could be attached (i.e. like Indigo) up to 25 units. Residential and Open Space
design requirements.
Mr. Petrosky emphasized the Plan recommends more open space requirements
than what is currently in the Planned Unit Development (PUD) zoning
district. He spoke about implementing a conservation design option or
entertaining conditional zoning that allows a legislative decision and more
dialogue to get better designs. He talked about using GIS data and elevation
data to determine the height of buildings in the downtown area, 60 foot
Live Oak trees that provide a backdrop to everything, buildings 25 -
 28 feet, and civic buildings and churches up to 40 feet with
ornamental features.
Mr. Petrosky stressed the importance of the character
and scale of development in Southport' s commercial districts:
•   2,000 - 3,000 sq. ft., typically Main Street retail, service or office
•   3,000 - 8,000 sq. ft., Midtown and neighborhood commercial, small/medium
scaled dining, retail, service, with use restrictions and design details
to limit impacts, some second floor residential
•   10,000 - 30,000 sq. ft. Gateway, range of medium scaled to Big Box scaled
retail, restaurants, service, office
•   30,000+ sq. ft. Highway
Commercial, typically larger scale retail, service, or office, larger
footprint, higher intensity
Mr. Petrosky talked about the business districts; Downtown, Midtown and
Waterfront commercial and each of them should have a particular
set of uses and scale of development. He discussed mixed
use in some of the districts. He stated the importance of updating the UDO and
that the Comprehensive Land Use Plan reinforces those priorities and
updates. He suggested including flexibility for good customized design and
conditional zoning options.
Noting that housing affordability is an issue in the entire Southeast
region and it is not an easy solution, Mr. Petrosky indicated that
"affordability" came up a lot in discussions and the Plan includes some small
incremental things that can address affordability, i.e. accessory dwelling
units that can add diversity of housing without changing the character of
neighborhoods. Responding to a statement by Mayor Alt, Mr. Petrosky talked
about the 33 ft. width lots throughout Southport with issues of impervious
surface. Mayor Alt stated his hope the Board would address the small lots and
require some percentage of pervious surface. Alderman Carroll speculated
that into the future, there may come a time when ancillary buildings on small
lots would be prohibited. Agreeing with Mayor Alt's suggestion of establishing
a percentage of pervious coverage for small lots, Alderman Davis stated that
currently an accessory dwelling cannot be rented separately .
Mr. Petrosky talked about housing types and pointed out that Southport
is predominantly a single family home community. He stated there is flexibility
in types of housing particularly as it relates to small scale and what
is called "missing middle housing types", duplexes, quadplexs, triplexes that
have front porches and look like many single family homes.
Land Use, Character & Housing
Process and standards should be updated to include performance-based standards
and some flexibility (i.e. mixed use development
and conditional zoning options)
Affordability (ADU housing types targeted projects (i.e. veterans, teachers or
seniors)
Coordinate with Brunswick County and other entities to manage growth near
Southport
Mr. Petrosky emphasized it is essential to coordinate with Brunswick
County and the Plan includes a number of recommendations. He noted
that there is a lot of concern regarding the County zoning districts
will create a checkerboard pattern of the Southport city limits and does not
necessarily match the character of Southport.
Stating that Southport has an incredible system of parks for a city its size
and an
incredible amount of water access along Bay Street and Waterfront Park, Mr. Petrosky
spoke about maintaining and improving Southport' s parks.
Public Access & Parks
•   Improved connections (Lowe-White to Taylor Field and parking 
(Alvin Caviness), parking, bicycle access, pedestrian connections,
accessibility from an ADA standpoint
•   Enhance East Coast Greenway route (a safe comfortable route for bikes and
pedestrians throughout the city limits)
•   Plan for Stephen's Park (seven - nine acre piece ofland) Continue to
improve City Dock
Historic Preservation
•   Support local district and local landmark designations 
(would result in potential tax breaks)
•   Pursue Certified Local Government status 
(could apply for grant monies to update Southport's historical survey
•   Tell Southport's story through art, community activities, education, and
signage
Mr. Petrosky stated it is commendable how Southport tells its story with signage
throughout the city.
Resiliency
•   Grant funding to assess local critical assets
•   Take steps to improve Community Rating System by 2028 (corresponds with
flood insurance rates)
•   Low-impact development solutions (storm water and infiltration)
•   Tree preservation and annual tree planting program 
(include diversity in the canopy)
•   Protection of non-coastal and coastal wetlands
•   Dark Sky Initiative 
(updates to street lighting, bollard lighting to keep pedestrian lighting low
and reduce impacts)
Future of the Yacht Basin
•   Street improvements
•   Bay Street and Waterfront Master Plan (future of Bay Street)
•   Historic signage/markers
Height limitations for new development
•   Parking on eastern edge and plan for/fund beautification ofright of ways
•   Long-term solution for boardwalk and parking
Mr. Petrosky spoke to the incredible natural heritage in Southport. He indicated that the
last chapter of the plan discusses the existing conditions with a lot of
detail, mapping tree canopy, biodiversity, wildlife habitat assessment and
extremely unique natural areas that represent the best examples of natural
communities in the state. To address the threatened natural communities
into the future, he emphasized coordination with private land owners, non
profit sector and policies and decisions the Board will make.
Water Quality
•   Expand storm water regulation
•   Study impervious surface trends and limit built-upon area for certain
zoning districts (potential for first floor elevation changes
in areas that may not be in traditional flood plains)
•   Preserve large wetland areas 
(recent law changes not protecting them as they once were)
•   Stream and wetland buffers
Economic Development
•   Continue to promote events locally and regionally
•   Plan and improve wayfinding
•   Funding to improve downtown amenities including lighting, pedestrian
enhancements, seating and tree canopy coverage
•   Support Southport Elementary School and Brunswick Community College
Transportation
•   Access management NC 211 and NC 87
•   Compact-mixed use development to support walkability
•   Use ofright-of-ways for parking, storm water management,
sidewalks and street trees
•   Bicycle and/or golf cart parking
•   Improve pedestrian crossings along N. Howe Street (conceptual design of new
crosswalk at Leonard Street included in plan)
Infrastructure and Services (thru 2055)
•   Utility system monitoring
•   Establishment of Urban Service Area (work with County)
•   Police, Fire, and EMS trends and needs (their challenges and needs) Storm
water system enhancements
Mr. Petrosky touched on Implementation with an emphasis
on prioritizing. He asked the Board for their input on what can be
accomplished in a couple years, midterm, or long-term while focusing on their
priorities.
Ms. Radford presented an outline of the next steps
Next Steps
•   Board of Aldermen comments -January 23
•   Public Review- February 1
•   Division of Coastal Management Staff Review- Feb. 1 (could take up to 75
days)
•    Edits from DCM staff review
•   State Agency Review (30-day review period) 
•   State Historic Preservation Office, Department of Environmental Water
Quality, etc.
•   Planning Board
•   Board of Aldermen
•   Certification DCM (30-day public comment period)
5.   Review of Southport Street Lighting Policy and Resident's Concerns
Item removed from Agenda.
K.   Board and Committee Appointments
1.   Planning Board Appointments
Alderman Lai explained the process he, Mayor Pro-Tern Kelley, and Planning
Board Chair Sue Hodgin went through interviewing 11 candidates for appointment
to the Planning Board. He emphasized that the people who serve on the Planning
Board have to be very knowledgeable, put in a lot of work,
a lot of time, and they provide a commendable service for the City of
Southport.
Alderman Lai motioned to appoint the following, seconded by Alderman Kelley:
•   John Bove, Larry Ashley, and Robert Lambert for three year terms
•   Kevin Locklin to fill the unexpired term of Roy Pender
•   Alternate position vacant at this time
Comments
Noting that applicant Karen Williams participated in the Comprehensive
Plan process, Alderman Mosteller asked why Ms. Williams was not recommended
for appointment. Mayor Alt advised that there was a personnel issue.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried
2.   Board of Adjustment
Alderman Spencer reported
that there were several rounds of interviews. He motioned to appoint the
following to the Board of Adjustment, seconded by Alderman Kelley:
Chris Eckert and John Allen for 3-year full term positions Rodney Ross one-year
term
Steve Dosher full term alternate position
Comment
Responding to a query by Alderman Davis, Alderman Spencer stated the Board of
Adjustment will have a full compliment of members.
Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried
3.   Parks and Recreation Committee
Alderman Davis explained that a vacancy had been created on the Parks and Recreation
Committee due to the removal of the Extra Territorial Jurisdiction (ETJ) from
the City.
Alderman Mosteller made a motion, second by Alderman Carroll to appoint Andrew
Brosche.
Ayes: Aldermen Mosteller, Carroll, Lai, Kelley Nay:   Aldermen Spencer, Davis
4-2   Motion Carried
Alderman Davis stated that this appointment will expire in June along with three 
(3) others. She pointed out that those currently serving can reapply. Alderman
Mosteller encouraged others to apply, come to the meetings and participate.
L.   Committee Reports
The following report was provided in the agenda packet.
1.   ABC Board Report
Alderman Lai reported that sales were up 1-2%.
M.   Staff Reports
The following reports were provided in the agenda packet:
1.   Finance Report
•   January 2025 Board of Aldermen - Revenue vs. Budget Report
•   January 2025 Board of Aldermen -Expenditures vs. Budget Report
2.   Code Enforcement Report
N.   Manager's Report
City Manager Turille presented the following report:
1.   Recommends starting the FY 2025-2026 budget process sooner than scheduled;
last week of January.
2.    Begin process for a prepared food and beverage tax referendum
must first obtain a general assembly local act authorization current
legislative environment is no new taxes  use long-
term forecast data as a tool of persuasion
3.    Comprehensive Plan
Make the North Howe Street Corridor Overlay happen Must have harmonious zoning
with the County
4.   Strategic Needs Assessment
Understand the impact of traffic on the community and organization Requested
trip data from NCDOT:
2023 average annual daily trips at Howe Street and Fodale Avenue was 17,500
which is 122,500 weekly and nearly half a million monthly Interactive map e-
mailed to Aldermen
Per Fire Chief Drew, EMS calls remain mostly local resident calls Trip data
indicates a large number of daily trips for Police services
particularly at the height of tourist season (Police Department does not track
local versus visitor data)
5.    Occupancy Tax Collections
Last year collected $206,285
On track to increase that amount (statistical forecast, $250,000)
Granicus software allows audit of short-term rental to verify payments)
0.   Board Comments
Alderman Mosteller advised the Board that she would be contacting the NCDOT District
3 representative to ask some general questions pertaining to the current detour
and signage directing ferry traffic.
Alderman Davis discussed Occupancy Tax, short-term rentals and accessory
dwellings.
She suggested that whenever the Board of Adjustment approves an accessory
dwelling, the Code Enforcement Officer should be notified in order to keep
track of them. She stated that several accessory dwellings are used as short-
term rentals. Alderman Kelley pointed out that the Granicus software should
alert the City when occupancy taxes are funneled through any of the third party
rental systems.
Alderman Spencer stated his appreciation for Mr. Franklin attending the
meeting. Alderman Spencer shared a story that inspired him during his
childhood; while visiting his
grandmother, President Carter visited Fayetteville, North Carolina. Alderman Spencer added
that he has learned over the years that great leaders are normal people who
want to make a difference.
P.   Adjourn
Alderman Spencer made a motion, second by Alderman
Kelley to adjourn the meeting at 10:34 p.m. Unanimous Vote; Motion Carried.
Richard Alt, Mayor
February 6, 2025
BUDGET WORKSHOP
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN BUDGET WORKSHOP
February 6, 2025  INDIAN TRAIL MEETING HALL 113 W. MOORE STREET
SOUTHPORT, N.C.   9:00A.M.
 
PRESENT:   Mayor Pro-Tern Rebecca Kelley
Aldermen Marc Spencer, Robert Carroll, Frank Lai, Lowe Davis, Karen Mosteller
STAFF:   Stuart Turille, City Manager
Noah Saldo, City Clerk Charles Drew, Fire Chief Todd Coring, Police Chief
ChyAnn Ketchum, Public Information Officer
A.   Call to Order
Mayor Pro-Tern Kelley called the meeting to order at 9:00 a.m.
B.   Invocation
Alderman, Reverend, Lowe Davis gave the invocation.
C.   Pledge of Allegiance
Mayor Pro-Tern Kelley led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance. Mayor
Pro-Tern KelleY: stated the following;
"If any members know of any conflict of interest of the appearance
of a conflict of interest concerning matters on the agenda, please so state at
this time. "
D.   Approval of Agenda
Alderman Davis moved to approve the agenda, second by Alderman Lai.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
E.   Agenda
1.   Presentation of the Proposed FY 25-26 Budget by the City Manager and Board
Discussion
City Manager Turille presented the Proposed FY 25-26 Budget to the
Board. He first thanked the City Finance Director, Lance Flint, and
the city staff for their hard work, dedication and cooperation
for keeping down expenses while maintaining excellent service levels; "I want
to commend our staff; Public Works is right now fixing stormwater issues,
sidewalks, buildings and streets; Fire/EMS are protecting lives and property
with a an exceptional three (3) to four (4) minute response time; Police keeps
crime low, citizens safe and engaged; Parks and Recreation offers healthy
quality of life programs for all ages; Development Services keeps the city
environment safe, orderly and clean; Community Relations plans and executes
all our wonderful seasonal events such as Winterfest
and Springfest. It all happens 24/7 around the clock, it never stops.
City Manager Turille explained the General Fund:
The fund is the essence of city services
The fund has an unreserved balance of $3.6M There is a reserve
of 55% of one years expenses Total fund balance is $11M
City Manager Turille indicated he is in touch with the City Auditor who reports
that the city's financial status is above average with no liquidity issues in
an area of high growth which will enable its financial situation to continue
upward. The auditor expects a clean audit opinion on February 13, 2025.
City Manager Turille talked about anticipated development,
higher property values, more people and sales tax, property value reassessments
which will continue the upper trend in the city's revenues. He reported there
is an imbalance between the general fund revenue and expenses resulting in a
revenue gap, caused in part by the loss of $1.2M contribution from the water/
sewer fund and high inflation:
5.5% average COLA over the last three (3) years Health costs projected to grow
8% annually Other costs inflating at 3%
Totaling 16% cost increases the last three (3) years
City Manager Turille stated that city staff is the City's major asset. He
pointed out that to attract and maintain the very best staff, the city
has offered a compensation and benefits package similar to
surrounding municipalities, annual cost of living adjustments, a merit pay
plan that has averaged 3.5% annually in recent years, competitive
market rate wages and salaries which often need adjustment to maintain
competitiveness with the region, the best fire/rescue,
police and public safety equipment. He noted that increasing costs of equipment
makes outright purchase difficult requiring the equipment to be financed
with debt. For example, an ambulance costs $125,000 five (5) years ago and
it costs $400,000 today.
City Manager Turille emphasized what staff has done to close the gap:
Carefully planned revenues (forecast to growth
ofreal estate values, population, and new development)
development projections for vacant lots, in-fill development and new
development
Every request reviewed by line item Non essential costs were all eliminated
Two (2) administrative positions were unfunded, saving $220,000 (including the
Assistant City Manager position)
No new positions added
Non police vehicles on an expiring lease will be purchased and continue to be
used for several more years (estimated savings over four (4) years, $30,000 per
vehicle)
No new debt
City Manager Turille indicated the City has the following options available
to continue to provide the same high levels of service to balance the budget
and eliminate the gap:
Lower department costs
Reduce line item costs (only essential must have items)
Slow the growth of wage increases (67% of expenses from personnel costs) COLA
and merit pay will be part of the solution
Use portion of fund balance this one time ($3.6M available) Maintain fund
balance for capital projects
Increase revenues (increase the ad valorem tax rate)
City Manager Turille stated his recommendation: "Eliminate
the fund gap with a shared sacrifice strategy with a slight tax increase and
modest use of fund balance."
1.   Lower the COLA cost of living adjustment slightly and suspend merit
increases for this year. Provide a 2% COLA which is slightly lower than
the 2.9% CPI for the southeast
region. Pause merit increases for one year beginning July 1, 2025. Staff will
conduct a comprehensive review of compensation practices and recommend
competitive and sustainable strategies by October 31, 2025 ahead of the next
year budget cycle.
2.   Reassign $.01 from the capital fund to the general fund,
this year assign the entire .31 cents to the General Fund. Adequate
fund balance remains to continue capital projects.
3.   A small increase to the ad valorem rate.  A one cent rate increase equates to
a $38 tax increase for the medium home value. The long term forecast indicates
that if development and population trends continue, additional tax increases to
support the city's operating expenses may be unnecessary in future years.
4.   Use some fund balance, $698,000, which is 19% of the $3.6M.
5.   If additional revenue materializes such as the $IM requested by Fire
Department from State Legislature, use that revenue first to pay down fire debt
in order to eliminate the use of fund balance
and perhaps do a mid year CPI adjustment up to the 2.9% CPI.
City Manager Turille provided specifics of"closing the $1.4M gap."
With a one cent tax increase, gap can be reduced by $82,731 Lowering COLA to 2%
Suspend the merit pay for this year only, $330,772
Use the existing 1 cent capital tax for the general fund, $164,955. Use of fund
balance, $698,000
City Manager Turille emphasized that the one cent tax increase and shared cost
reductions gets the City in the clear and will have a balanced budget. He noted
that next year there is a slight deficit, $281,000, but as development comes
on line, the city will start seeing surpluses that begin to build over
time as more development comes into the tax base. He said; "There is an upward
trend. It's tough this year but the future is looking good as more development
comes in. City services are lean, efficient and effective."
Stating he was not recommending the following, City Manager Turille outlined
other possible actions:
Freeze the COLA and merit pay Use additional fund balance Higher tax increase
Displaying a graph, City Manager Turille pointed out the upward trend showing
that future tax increases may not be needed for operating
expenses. He explained the long term forecasting model created
by Director Flint and staff. The model estimates annual development and
the tax revenues from developments. Factoring in the development
that is coming in and, as the auditor said at the outset, there's more
population and more growth here so the revenue generation on sales tax and such
will continue upward.
What the model does:
Estimates annual development tax revenue from development projects The impact
of property reevaluation in 2028 and 2032
Assumes an ad valorem tax rate for each year, (recommended at 32 cents)
Estimates all other annual revenue sources
Uses actual employee salary and benefit costs (with right now no changes in the
number of employees)
Applies variable inflation factors to wages, benefits and other costs
Development is based on scheduled and projected development
The model does not:
Does not assume an increase in staff Does not assume new debt payments
Does not assume future rates increases for state pension (can adjust model when
rates are known)
Does not reduce employee benefits (those are protected)
City Turille stressed the importance that the city's finances generate general
fund surpluses for unanticipated
future costs to be applied to the capital fund to maintain and improve the city
infrastructure and assets. The long-term forecast indicates this will occur
over time.
Long-term modeling enables the City to understand
how its choices made today impact future years.
City Manager Turille talked about long-
term strategies; "The benefit of the long-term model is it allows us to look
ahead at projected future costs. I think we can minimize tax increases without
fluctuation, that should be the strategy year to year. The tax rate proposed
achieves this and allows for Budget surpluses to being in two (2) years to
build up funds for capital projects. Projected surpluses should be dedicated
to Capital, to build a strongly funded CIP but as well as protecting
the chief asset as I said, the city staff which do the work."
City Manager Turille stated; "Institute a debt policy that addresses the use of
debt over the long term as part of capital budgeting."
City Manager Turille advised; "Access the optimal mix of
wages, compensation adjustment, and benefits to be competitive to recruit
and retain highly qualified and motivated staff that is financially
sustainable. The model will help us do that. Use the long-term forecast model
to understand these cost impacts.   The new tool assists the immediate and
long-term impacts well in advance of actual outlays and helps us manage these
fluctuations and gaps and surpluses well in advance."
Emphasizing capital funding, City Manager Turille stated; "Capital funding needs to
take priority with all the urgent stormwater needs, road needs, and building
needs. As we saw with PTC 8, begin long term planning to rank and prioritize
capital projects for outside funds request at the state and federal
level. Immediately after we adopt this budget we will take the CIP, prioritize
these projects, and begin outreach for grant matches aggressively. Existing
staff can be redirected to pursue and win grants."
Alderman Davis pointed out "the way you are balancing the budget is limiting COLA to 2%,
suspending merit increases, taking away from the employees." Alderman Carroll
concurred and stated that reducing the
COLA to 2% will actually have employees making less than last year.
Alderman Davis stressed matching the COLA to the cost of living.
Thinking long-term, Alderman Carroll stated; "Go ahead and make a two (2)
or three (3) cent increase now so that we don't have to steal from our Capital.
That would be my recommendation. Let's find a way to show the employees that we
actually care and support them. Merit we have to get under control because I
think this Board recognizes that merit across the board is not merit, it's just
bonus. We need a better handle of that and
what that means moving forward."  Alderman Davis explained that
the past across the board merits were intended to get employees
who were below standard pay up to where they should be. Referencing a recent
pay study, Alderman Carroll stated that city wages are now competitive.
Alderman Lai pointed out that the Consumer Price Index (CPI) for the Wilmington
Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area (SMSA) is 2.9 and he stressed
making sure the employees get that. He added that merit should be on a bell
curve and not everyone gets a merit.
Alderman Mosteller emphasized the importance of continuing capital projects and
not taking from the capital fund balance; "There are too many and we've worked
too hard, there is too
much momentum. I agree with Robert, we need to look at a tax increase that manages that." She
spoke about staff levels being frozen and dependent on development.  "There's
no way our first
responders can stay frozen throughout that process if we're depending on development."
Alderman Carroll questioned the long-
term sustainability of the current development; "If you drive throughout
the county there is development after development and so for us to think that
here in Southport that's going to continue, I think that might be slightly
aggressive in our thinking."
Mayor Pro-Tern Kelley stated; "As far as the COLA, I agree with Alderman Lai
and I think we should look at doing what the CPI is for our staff. I think the
5% where we have been was exactly as Alderman Davis said it was intended to
bring everybody up, we're now within those guidelines based on the study that
we did so I think that puts us in a good position. I really, really, really
don't want to raise taxes and I would love for that to be on the record. But I
think I like the approach that the city manager has taken as far as asking the
staff, asking the citizens, and fund balance to all come together to balance
this budget."
Alderman Carroll said; "If we're going to go on the record, I don't want to
raise taxes, I don't want to steal from capital, I don't want to take away from
the employees, I don't want to rape the fund balance."
Discussing the vehicle leasing concept, Alderman Mosteller asked Director Flint about
the change proposed in the budget to retain vehicles at lease expiration. "The whole concept of the
leasing was because we were getting them at wholesale and then at the end of
the lease selling then at retail."  Finance Director Flint responded; "We
only have lease vehicles in a couple places, police are on their own
plan. There is no proposal to take the police vehicles and buy them and
continue to use them just because of the nature of how police vehicles are
used. The way the program works is we usually lease it for five (5) years,
we are developing equity in the vehicle over that five years. At the end of the
five years, we trade that vehicle in, whatever our equity is goes as a down
payment toward the value. The problem is that the prices have gone up within
the last five years since the program started.
Public Works has done a really good job and stepped up and volunteered to
start buying out pick up trucks which don't get the same sort of hours idling,
they're not at an office like the police cars are in the office, they stepped
up and said, yeah we've got trucks out here with 25,000 miles on them, 30,000
miles, they are in good shape, our garage maintains them well. Rather than us
going out and signing up for another $800 a month lease payment, let's just
spend the $3,000 or whatever it takes to buy the thing out at the end of the
lease and we'll use them for a few more years and save the taxpayers some
money. The other place is in the administration, there are three vehicles, two
of which are Development Services and one the City Manager's.  All of those are
off lease now, we can buy them out for about $3,100 each.
Development Services has agreed that their vehicles are fine to continue to use
for a while so rather than go out and buy another Explorer and pay another $700
a month for it, we're just going to buy out the ones we have, we'll keep them
for a number of years. It's going to save a couple hundred thousand dollars
over the course of the life of these vehicles. So we bought them, we might
as well use them rather than just trade them in for just that purpose. But
police, different matter. Police will continue to get new vehicles as they come
off the lease, will continue to outfit and upfit them with all the necessary
police equipment because those do
serve a completely different purpose."  Noting the proposed change was
a shift in policy, Alderman Mosteller asked for a specific breakdown in a narrative or
spreadsheet.
Alderman Mosteller asked if the reason for the change in policy from leasing vehicles is
because of the cost.  Mr.  Flint responded; "It's a conscious decision as to
whether administration vehicles which are five years old, have been maintained
by the city garage and with just 25,000 miles on it, does it make sense to
trade it in for $10,000 and go out and lease something for $800/month.  It
doesn't make any business sense. It makes perfect business sense for
Police. Public Works really stepped up to the plate and said it doesn't make
sense, a pickup now is $60,000."
Alderman Davis asked if there were any thoughts to reducing the number of
vehicles.
City Manager Turille responded; "We have gone through the list and have not
found any surplus.  We can review that list again."
Responding to a query by Alderman Carroll, Mr. Flint indicated there are six
(6) vehicles proposed to be bought out, three (3) administration and three (3)
Public Works. He added that Public Works would still have a few vehicles
on lease and there are 16-18 leased Police vehicles.
Alderman Carroll recalled a previous city manager suggesting selling on of the
administration vehicles. Mr. Flint stated the vehicle was not sold and
is generally used by city hall employees for attending Board meetings, going
to out of town meetings, and not using their personal cars. That vehicle is one
that is at the end of its lease term ($550/mo.) The buyout is $3,075 which will
happen on July 1. That vehicles will be good for years.   Alderman Carroll
pointed out that the vehicles is also used for trips by Aldermen.
Complimenting staff on the projected long-term model, Mayor Pro-
Tern Kelley spoke about the projected general fund surplus; "I remember a
similar graph with diminishing returns at about the 10 year mark from one of
the large developers when they made a presentation to us 2-3 years ago, they
couldn't answer, perhaps you can't answer either, after this 10 year mark when
it kind of drops off, sort of diminishing returns start in FY 2034 then starts
to drop 2035. Did those diminishing returns continue because we are no longer
building out so we have to prepare for that also?" Director Flint
responded; "We haven't run the model past 10 years but what you're
suggesting is absolutely true, it will, after 10 years. I'm certainly not any
sort of authority on development but I do think our future development begins
to become diminished, less and less of it is going to be happening. As you go
out beyond the 10 year mark, your tax base is not growing as quickly perhaps as
your expenses which are growing just through inflation. You're going to see
diminishing returns."
Director Flint stated; "If any of the assumptions that are in there, in the out
years don't materialize, in the same way they are in the model, it changes your
future view. It does what it does based on the knowledge that we have and the
assumptions that we have today. We worked through it with our
development team. If you were to run this thing out 20 years it would show that
we would not be putting out surpluses."
Alderman Carroll suggested the Board reaching a consensus on the items
discussed, i.e. COLA. He asked Director Flint to put the 2.9% COLA in the model
in lieu of the 2% proposed COLA.   Director Flint indicated the 2.5% COLA
increases the use of fund balance by $72,000 or a half penny tax increase.
At the request of Alderman Carroll, Director Flint talked about the long-term
effect of fund balance if money is taken from it to help balance the FY 25-
26 budget. Mr. Flint said; "All the money comes from the same place, from all
revenue sources, taxes, etc. It goes to the same place.
We have in our general fund balance a little
over $1 lM right now.  We have a policy that says we need to maintain not less
than 55% of one year's expenses in that fund balance. The budget you have
in front of you is in the $14M range so we have to reserve 55% of that $14M
per policy and not touch it. In the event that something happens that we really
need that money and ifwe go below the 55%, there are Local Government
Commission (LGC) implications for the liquidity of the city. That leaves $3.6M
available today. I will caution you that we are standing here on February 6
with a lot of the fiscal year left to go and that number could change. The fund
balance is a living breathing thing and it moves with revenues and with
costs. Putting a pen in the $3.6M today, that $3.6M has to pay for any
operating deficiencies that we might have with our tax revenues that
don't cover our costs. It has to pay for any Capital, anything new we add
to our capital bucket. Our capital fund balance, which is separate from the
general fund balance. The capital fund is created when the Board appropriates
general fund money to the capital fund. That capital fund balance as of today
has approximately $618,000 of unobligated dollars left in that we
can spend. What you are going to see the next time we get together is that
there are millions and millions of capital needs that need to be paid for one
way or another.  Every time we use and consume this fragile fund balance to use
it for today's needs, we are putting off tomorrow's needs. And, as I said
before, with this development in the model it doesn't take much to turn next
year's consumption of fund balance from $200,000-$300,000 to $600,000. It
doesn't take much variation in revenues and development assumptions.  10
houses doesn't come on line that we have planned next year at $400,000 of
house times the tax rate that's going to have an impact on how much fund
balance you need to consume. So, what we can do to reduce the
consumption of fund balance today is going to pay off in to the
future. Personally, it is probably necessary, but consuming $700,000 in fund
balance, I mean take 20% of your bank account and spending it right now when
you need a new roof or you need a new driveway and all of those sort of
things, it might not make sense.  I think it is incumbent on all ofus to dig as
deep as we can in this budget and take out anything that could be taken out so
we don't put ourselves, in two (2), three (3) years from now and need a 10 cent
tax increase."
Mayor Pro-Tern Kelley pointed out that a couple big commitments
are coming up, i.e. matching funds for the Waterfront Stablization project and
she asked if those funds were accounted for. Director Flint indicated there is
a separate fund completely unrelated to the general fund or the capital fund
that has the State contribution in it ($5M). Matching funds would have to come
out of capital fund.
Alderman Davis asked if delaying the Yacht Basin Dredging Project would imperil
the grant the City has received. Stating he would check on the time table for
the grant, City Manager Turille also stated that he is in discussions
with the Army Corps of Engineers, pursuing
with them on how to get that city contribution down, and looking
at alternative spoils sites to get that cost down (currently projected at
$700,000 - $900,00).
Alderman Mosteller pointed out that the
Yacht Basin Dredging project has been on going since Hurricane Matthew in 2016.
She stated; "We've done all the background for the last two years
and we had the survey done in 2023 for the silt. There's going to be a relevance of time line for what we
are dredging because it's
just continuing to silt in."  City Manager Turille indicted; "These projects
can't just linger on year after year. The Yacht Basin dredging is
important.  I'm trying to drive that as fast as I can as I develop
relationships with the Army Corps. City Engineer Jarvis and I are working with
our Coastal Consultants. So anyone thinking that the Yacht Basin dredging is
being delayed, that's not true. We are pursuing that as hard as we can."
All expressing support for funding a capital budget, Aldermen Carroll, Mosteller and
Davis talked about the one cent capital tax.   Alderman Carroll suggested; "My
proposal would be to keeping the 1% in capital and in addition increase taxes
2 - 3 cent." Alderman Mosteller pointed out that the city used to fund a third
of Administration costs, staff costs, and other things through the water/sewer
fund, and that fund is no longer paying for those things."
Responding to a question from Alderman Carroll, City Manager Turille indicated
that he and department heads went line item by line item through the proposed
budget, looked at 2024 actuals, and cut to only things that was absolutely
necessary to provide services.
Mayor Pro-Tern Kelley asked about the funding for vacant
city positions. Director Flint responded
the funding would remain in the general fund and effectively
part of the balance being talked about.
Director Flint asked to speak to the following; "Alderman Mosteller referred to the
water/sewer fund from last year and the amount of general fund that was
supported by the water/sewer fund. We have traditionally done the same thing
with the electric fund. The budget you're looking at does not, it assumes
$0 being paid from the electric fund because frankly, any support that
we give to the electric fund is incidental and if the electric enterprise were
to not exist, we wouldn't save any. I wouldn't save anything in the finance
department so why charge a third ofme to the electric fund. They have needs of
their own. But a difference between this year's budget and last year's budget
is a few $100,000 that we were assuming the electric fund was going to pay
for. As we've gone through thinking this year, it doesn't seem like it's fair
to burden the electric fund with those costs, they're not there.  That is part
of the difference we're looking at."
Alderman Carroll asked Director Flint what his thoughts were on increasing the COLA to
2.9%, keeping 1 cent in capital and increasing tax 2-
3 cent.  Referring back to Alderman
Mosteller's remarks, Director Flint stated; "Everybody was paying those costs,
paying it in water and sewer rates that were unusually high. Now they may have
to pay it in taxes, that's how you have that conversation, so some people in
some parties don't like the T word and some people do but that's what it
comes down to.  It's the same money, it's just how it's being
paid.  I'm looking at the model; if the
portion of the tax rate that's applied to the general fund
was 34 cents, so let's call that a 3 cent tax increase over last year, with
another penny back to the general fund, then your reliance on fund balance as
it stands right now would be $260,000, so a significant amount less. I will
also point out, we did go back and went through the tax scrolls. Tax scrolls
are hard things to work with but we attempted to identify built out home
values and based on the median home value, a penny is worth about $38 on a tax
bill. So 3 cents is worth $115 - $120 on a tax bill."
Alderman Spencer asked what
the median house value was used in the model. Director
Flint responded, $383,970. He added that revenue will have to grow because
costs are going to grow. He pointed out that the city has few levers
to pull when increasing revenue, money flow in North Carolina depends on
population, and while the County "pie" might be getting bigger, Southport's
part of the pie keeps getting smaller and smaller because the population can
not grow to the extent that the rest of the county population can grow.  "The
sales tax pie will be
bigger but Southport already has less than 2% of that pie and it's going to continue to shrink. How that
plays out ifwe have a crystal ball, when everybody else is building all those houses and Southport is
going to run out of the ability to build all these houses at some point. Growing
the pie is going to be challenging long term, the revenue is going to have to
grow, so the only true lever that we have available to us as it stands today
is the ad valorem tax rate."
Alderman Davis questioned the $389,000 median house value. Director Flint
indicated the value was based on the July 2024 tax bills. Alderman Davis asked
the Realtors on the Board to comment. Alderman Carroll stated
that tax assessment has nothing to do with what a house is worth. Alderman
Spencer noted the condo units at the River Hotel, value $250,000 for 400 sq.
ft. could pull the median value down and he stated there is currently a listing
on 11th Street for $375,000.   Mayor Pro-
Tern Kelley added that some of the new developments are in the $200,000 range.
Alderman Spencer commented; "Lance has presented a very good explanation
of what we're
facing and all my dear firefighters out there, I want you to understand,
you're the last of the citys fire departments
and you see how we're struggling for money, but you hear who's getting all the money.
Ultimately who is going to be able to afford to pay your bills. That's what we're trying to balance out, to
keep what we've got. So that's why we're trying to cut those merit raises and keep them balanced so we
can keep our fire department. We really can't afford to take care of the district that they've got. This is
the future. I told our State Senator that I didn't think we would be a city in 20 years. He shrugged
me off but I think it was the most prolific thing I've said to them, we might
not be a city in 20 years ifwe don't control these costs."
Speaking about merits and while acknowledging the need to be fiscally
responsible, Alderman Carroll stated his opinion that employees
doing an exceptional job deserve merit pay and he did not like taking it out
of the budget. He added that the merit program needs to be reworked in order
to make it everything it should be. Pointing out that he would not be on the
Board a year from now, he stressed the importance of preparing this year so it
would not be necessary to strip the COLA and Merit away next year. He stated
appreciation for the multi­ year approach to making a better budget
that the city can afford and he suggested building in a
policy where the city does regular, smaller tax increases, i.e. ½ cent, after a tax increase
of two (2) to three (3) cents this year. He said; "I think that's
how you create a long-term fiscally responsible
budget for our employees and or constituents."
Pointing out that there had been discussion of $1.2M to be used in thirds over
three (3) years so as not to raise taxes, Mayor Pro-Tern Kelley asked if the
$1.2M set aside in the FY 24- 25 Budget was allocated in the FY 25-26
Budget. Director Flint recalled the discussions and responded that the $1.2M
was included in the $3.6M general fund. Mayor Pro-Tern Kelley
stated; "I think its important for the citizens to see that we were forward thinking and trying to diminish
the need for tax increases going forward." Alderman Carroll questioned
the logic of taking from fund balance in lieu of raising
taxes; "We can't keep postponing the tax, taking from fund balance, and
run out. It's not sustainable and we can't even keep the current services
to our employees this year because we didn't do the right thing last year."
Responding to a query by Alderman Mosteller, City Manager Turille indicated the
current discussion focused on the General Fund with the Capital Improvement
Fund and Electric Fund scheduled for the next budget workshop.
Alderman Lai stated; "Our revenue streams are very, very limited, non-
existent, we have
certain things we have to take care of.  Whether we like it or
not, somewhere down the road, we're going to have to have some sort of tax
increase. I don't want it, nobody else does but where are we going to get the
money. We have to take care of our people, we have to take care of our city and
last time I checked, nothing's getting cheaper."
Alderman Carroll asked Director Lance; "What do we 
(Aldermen) cost the City?" Director Flint indicated each Alderman receives
a $1,000/month stipend plus 7.65% for FICA tax and less than $5/month each for
life insurance, totaling approximately $1,080 month per Alderman.
Alderman Spencer said; "I was trying to find a way to again to go back to
what Lance was saying that hit me, hit a nerve I can't let go of.  In 10 to 20
years when we're built out, the revenue stream that Mr. Lai spoke about will go
away and the only thing we can feed off of is taxes, property taxes. We have no
way to make revenue. The only Enterprise Fund we have is the electricity and
somewhere along the line we're not even using that money anymore. 10 to 20
years, all the fund will go away once everything is developed, there will be
no looking forward, it will be just what we have and the taxpayers will pay the
bill ifwe don't change the way we live and act and we have to do it now so we
can handle it in 10 to 20 years from now. The crazy reality is that it's
because we are landlocked."
Alderman Mosteller agreed with Alderman Spencer's comments and added; "We cannot
pump the brakes on capital projects because that just feeds into exactly what
you just talked about down the road. Regarding reoccurring costs, I'm going
to use a quote from one of Director Flint's last emails, "It is a slippery
slope when we use general fund balance for reoccurring costs.  " She continued;
"We know that is an axiom that we are supposed to follow because that $3M that
we have in our general fund is for capital projects that we are desperate for
and have been planning for. We have to figure out a solution that we're not
falling down that slippery slope."
Mayor Pro-Tern Kelley stated her opinion that she would like the Board to
consider getting a prepared food tax on the ballot to see if the citizens would
be interested in doing that. Alderman Davis pointed out that the Legislature
would have to approve that and they had said "No." Mayor Pro-Tern Kelley
noted that if  the citizens supported the tax, Southport would be in a stronger
position to go to the Legislature with the request.   Alderman Davis stated
her opinion that the Legislature would also have to approve placing a
Referendum on the ballot.
Alderman Carroll stated that State Representative
Miller had indicated he would pursue it if the City had the
referendum.   Acknowledging the comments by Alderman Davis, Clerk Saldo
stated; "We have no authority to hold any elections other than municipal elections through the Board of
Elections. In order for us to present that to the voters, the legislature has to pass a local bill authorizing
us to do that and depending on the outcome of that election, if it passes or
not, is then the vehicle to enact that new tax." He suggested the Board adopt a
resolution asking the Legislature to permit a
Referendum.   He indicated he would prepare a resolution and have it on the next Board agenda.
Aldermen Lai and Carroll supported the pursuit of a referendum.   Alderman Lai
stated; "We have to do something. This would be a good way for us to get all
the tourists that come here and wear out our roads and whatnot, to pay for some
of the things that we need done. A town of 4,000 people cannot afford all the
things we have here. We have a lot of people coming, a lot of tourists, let's
get some money out of them." Alderman Carroll agreed. He stated
appreciation for Alderman Kelley's forward thinking approach to that concept;
"It doesn't fix this year so we're going to have to make some hard
decisions. It makes me feel good that our elected officials are thinking into
the future."
Alderman Spencer, reluctantly concurred; "I will go along with you.  I lived in
Williamsburg, I paid $10 for a Happy Meal. The people who live here will pay
that cost. The people who visit will pay a little bit, but the people who live
here will pay it every time they go out."
Alderman Mosteller calculated
the cost would be a penny on the dollar, an extra 20  cents on $20
spent. Alderman Carroll stated his hope the prepared food tax would go directly
into city coffers.
City Manager Turille said; "As I listen to the conversation, I hear about the
long term limited supply and development will diminish. Please keep in mind
that limited supply tends to drive up the value of property. The last
reassessments have gone up significantly. There is going to be a huge internal
market and incentive for these values to continue increasing, particularly as
the demographic trend of the Baby Boomers plays out. So there is going to be a
natural market tendency for the market values to go
up in properties.  There was one that was a 41% increase."  Alderman Carroll countered; "The
County is cautious of what took place in 2004,
2005, 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009.  In 2005 and 2006 there were situations where
homes went from $150,000 assessed value to $600,000 of assessed value. I don't
think the County wants that to happen again because what it did for them later
is when the market tanked, they did the exact opposite. A $250,000 lot on Oak
Island that had a $300,000 assessment was only worth
$24,000 at the time and they had.to readjust downward.  I think the County is
looking to try to make smaller, reasonable, incremental changes to that, so I
don't think every four (4) years we are going to see these 40% to 60% tax
increases. I don't think that. Yes, I went back to the idea that tax
assessment has nothing to do with the value of your home. So while most ofus
don't see a $380,000 house out there, it's tax assessed value, that
same house is probably actually selling in the retail market for
somewhere between $500,000 - $600,000. But it only has an assessment of
$380,000. So, that's something we really have to be cautious of."
2.   Budget Process Next Steps
City Manager Turille indicated the next Budget Workshop would be discussion
of Capital Improvement Projects and the Electric Fund.
RECESS:
RETURN TO SESSION:
10:20AM
10:32 AM
F.   Closed Session NCGS 143-318.11(6)
(6)      to consider the qualifications, competence, performance, character,
fitness, conditions of appointment, or conditions of initial employment of an
individual public officer or employee or prospective public officer or
employee; or to hear or investigate a complaint, charge or grievance by or
against an individual public officer or employee.
10:32 a.m.
Alderman Spencer moved, second by Alderman
Lai to go into Closed Session Per NCGS 143-318.11(6). Unanimous vote; motion
carried.
11:59 a.m.
Alderman Spencer moved, second by Alderman Lai to return to Open Session.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
G.   Adjourn
Alderman Spencer moved, second by Alderman Mosteller to adjourn the meeting at
11:59.57 a.m.
Richard Alt, Mayor
February 17, 2025
SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
 
BOARD OF ALDERMEN Special Meeting Minutes
February 17, 2025 223 E. BAY STREET
SOUTHPORT, N.C.   12:30 P.M.
 
PRESENT:   Mayor Richard Alt
Mayor Pro-Tern Rebecca Kelley
Aldermen Marc Spencer, Robert Carroll, Frank Lai, Lowe Davis, Karen Mosteller
STAFF:   Noah Saldo, Interim City Manager
Tori Deviney, Deputy City Clerk Charles Drew, Fire Chief
Maureen Meehan, Planning Services Director Todd Coring, Police Chief
ChyAnn Ketchum, Public Information Officer Tom Zilinek, City Engineer
A.   Call to Order
Mayor Alt called the meeting to order at 12:30 p.m.
B.   Invocation
Alderman, Reverend, Lowe Davis gave the invocation.
C.   Pledge of Allegiance
Mayor Alt led the assemblage in the Pledge of Allegiance.
Mayor Alt introduced Interim City Manager Noah Saldo. Mayor Alt introduced
Deputy City Clerk Tori Deviney and advised anyone who made public comments and
wanted feedback to provide contact information to Ms. Deviney.
D.   Public Comment
Alderman Mosteller moved, second by Alderman Lai to open Public Comment.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Mr. Warren Whitley, 432 Cades Trail, addressed the Board regarding the Cades
Cove Planned Unit Development (PUD) process. He pointed out that though a
majority of the residents of Cades Cove want to gate the community, does not
mean it is a good decision for the Board to support
it. He noted that the Planning Board did not recommend it, it would go against
traffic connectivity as addressed in the Comprehensive Plan, and the original
subdivision plan indicated that the streets would eventually be the city's
responsibility. As a city taxpayer, he questioned why he would
want to take on the expense of maintaining the streets over and above his
taxes. He stated the Board is partially responsible, all decisions of this
magnitude should have alternatives to consider and he provided three (3):
1.   Approve the streets as is in the subdivision. They are
better than the vast majority of the streets in Southport. There is no
immediate impact to the city budget.
2.   Approve the acceptance of Cades Trail and Lord Thomas Streets
now to maintain connectivity and phase in the other streets down the road.
3.   Do nothing. Leave the burden of maintenance to the residents who
are paying taxes and make them pay more money.
"Can you imagine what the assessment would be
ifwe had to pave all the roads in Cades Cove?
I couldn't afford it. To address Alderman Davis's comments, the Cades Cove
issue was caused by premature exit by Cardinal Builders and became the driving
reason to change the Unified Development Ordinance (UDO) to not allow building
permits to be issued until all infrastructure was completed and inspected by
the City. The comments about safety and traffic were based on hysterics and not
reality. I sit on my porch on Cades Trail quite often and rarely see
traffic passing by.  Will we see an increase when Indigo 2 goes through the
neighborhood? Maybe. If we do it will be incremental because they are not going
to put all the houses in at once. Where's the data? Nobody has done any studies
that I am aware of. Basically this decision should be a rational one and not
based on emotions. The pragmatic choice is to fix the problem for the residents
already paying taxes and who expected Cades Cove streets to be city streets per
the original plan."
Mr. Terry Duff, 6519 Walden Pond Lane, addressed the Board on two (2) issues
regarding the 440 acre tract that was annexed by the City in 2006.  He pointed out that the North
Carolina Wildlife Resources Commission (NCWRC) was present. Stating he did not
expect an
immediate answer, Mr. Duff directed a question to Police Chief Coring; "When I was up here
talking to the Aldermen and Mayor several months ago, I found an issue with a
City rule that allowed hunting on that property and it was a club that I
think was primarily of firemen. Allegedly that was taken down and
I don't know but I need an answer if it was really taken down and the
reason I am asking, is that someone was hunting there last week, last Saturday
morning. I heard a gunshot, I walked over there on public property and I
confronted a gentleman coming out of the woods carrying his 12 gauge shotgun. I
said, "are you allowed to hunt on here?" He told me, it's none of
your*!%# business.  So I would like to understand if the City can quantify who
is allowed to hunt on that property? Do I have to wait for an answer,
I'm not sure, I'm just trying to get to the root cause because this
has been going on year after year and it appears that the can keeps being
kicked down the road."
Mayor Alt shared his understanding that there is no longer hunting permitted on
that property. He speculated that someone could hunt the property without
permission and to call 911 so the City Police could enforce whatever rules they
need to enforce. Mr. Duff stated he did not want to waste City assets having to
go out there and confront someone who may have permission. Mayor Alt assured
Mr.  Duff that at the end of the meeting he would speak with the Chief of
Police to confirm that no hunting is permitted on that property.
Mr. Duffs second topic questioned regarded a recent request for public
records pertaining to the above discussed
property. He stated the city issued form he filled out indicated there would
be a response within ten (10)  days. "So what happens when this is day thirteen
(13)?"  Interim City Manager Saldo responded it
was the responsibility of the Clerk's office to respond to record requests, he
would follow up on it, and get back with Mr. Duff.
Ms. Lora Sharkey, 432 Cades Trail, spoke to the Board about traffic management.
"The consultant that is working on the Comprehensive Plan had a question by one
of the
Aldermen, "what is traffic management?" It is one of the BIG issues he pointed
out in the Comprehensive Plan. To the best of my understanding, traffic
management would be to manage traffic, not let it be a traffic jam, to avert
traffic to over burdened roadways, to facilitate movement of vehicles
and people throughout the city, to make things better, to make things
more conducive to citizens. While this relates to the zoning request by the
Cades Cove HOA, traffic management should be the heart of this decision. The
Planning Board ruled to deny that request because of the hindrance a gate in
that neighborhood would cause traffic flow. It would not be to the best
interest of the citizens at large.
When we look at one street, one little neighborhood and bend to that will, we
are not doing what may be best for the City at large. It's important to
remember to have different avenues of travel in important places. This one
area, I would say the important place is the plaza that houses the Senior
Center, Galloway Sands Pharmacy, and a dialysis center. People use
the thoroughfare through Cades Cove when Howe Street is at
a standstill and they should. They may need to go to dialysis, they may need
to pick up their prescription, they may need certain services at the Senior
Center, they may be dropping off someone who can't drive there themselves. They
are providing somebody else a service and when they are confronted with
standstill traffic on Howe Street, but they need to get to that plaza, the
logical choice is to go through Cades Cove. When the building plans were
approved, it showed that those roads would connect and it was approved that way
and that was because there was an understanding that it would
assist with traffic management.  We should stay the course with what the
original plan was so that we can serve the greater good of
the community. That's the over arching goal of government, I hope, and the
people we elect to the Board of Aldermen."
Mr. Charlie Hess, 4459 Willow Moss Way stated;  "I wanted to come and
echo what Warren and Lora said. I'm just going to talk about the safety and
emergency aspect of getting in and out (of Cades Cove) in case of an
emergency. Our neighborhood is getting impacted from development on Robert
Ruark Drive. I am really concerned that if we cut down any kind of exit
or evacuation route off of Robert Ruark Drive that it is going to impact the
future of that intersection and Howe Street.  Lora made a good comment about
the dialysis center and how people have to sometimes get to and from that plaza
quickly. I know that they talk about the 1,000 year storm we had back in the
Fall, I think that is an occurrence we will be dealing with off and on. We had
a gridlock in this town, it was a complete shut down of
traffic all around the community. We are a community here, we really want to
work together for the common good of everybody in Southport."
Alderman Lai moved to close Public Comment, second by Alderman Kelley.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
E.   Approval of Agenda
Alderman Davis made a motion to approve the Agenda, second by Alderman Lai.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
F.   Agenda
1.   Cades Cove Rezoning and PUD Modification (Agenda pages 2-11)
City Planner, Mr. Wendell Biddle, addressed the Board. He indicated the
question at hand is; "Are you as a Board going to vote in favor of or against a
gate at the Robert Ruark Drive and Cades Cove entrance? " He gave a brief
background review and reported that the request was found to be inconsistent
with the Unified Development Ordinance (UDO) and the CAMA
Core Land Use Plan due to the needs of the community and inter-
connectivity of the area subdivisions. He added that after consideration and
public input, the staff has forwarded to the Board a denial of the applicant's
request.
Recalling a previous Board conversation, Alderman Kelley asked for an update on
the roads dedication and her understanding that there are legal issues that
would prevent the city from being able to take over the roads. Mr. Biddle
responded that the roads will change from public to private if the Board
approves the request for a gate, he did not have an update on road dedications
nor was road dedications part of the requested map amendment.
Responding to a question by Alderman Davis and pointing out the original master
subdivision plat was a Planned Residential Development
(PRD), Mr. Biddle clarified that the map amendment would change the master plat
from a (PRD) to Planned Unit Development (PUD).   He added that a change
to the master plan would be required if a gate was installed.
City Manager Saldo emphasized that whether the streets are public or private,
the subdivision is still subject to the UDO. He pointed out there are two 
(2) parallel discussions; should the City accept or not accept the streets and
if the Board wants to allow a gate.
There was confusion as to what the results would be if the Board adopted
the proposed draft language. City Manager Saldo stated a yes would result
in a gate and a no would result in no gate.
Alderman Carroll emphasized
that the roads being private or public was not part of the current
decision. City Manager Saldo agreed and said the roads issue had already been
determined by the Cades Cove HOA and the attorney.
Alderman Kelley questioned if the Planning Board had the information
regarding the roads being declared private when they sent the Board
their recommendation; "The Planning Board sent us a recommendation based on old
information?"
Alderman Carroll asked Alderman Mosteller to read the following; "The Board of
Aldermen shall consider the following: Application's consistency to the general
policies and objectives of the city's comprehensive plan, any other adopted
plan that is applicable and the UDO. The potential impacts and/or benefits on
the surrounding area and adjoining properties.  "
Alderman Mosteller emphasized that the Planning Board recommended denial of the
proposed changes because the proposal is inconsistent with the Comprehensive
Plan and unreasonable due to the attributes of the area proposed to be rezoned
and detriments to the neighbors and surrounding community.
Alderman Carroll pointed out that the Board has many times collectively
mentioned the importance of the Comprehensive Plan and how they should look to
it for guidance.
Alderman Carroll made the motion to deny the Land Use Consistency Statement and
Land Map Amendment.   Alderman Mosteller seconded the motion.
Discussion
Responding to a query by Alderman Davis, Mr.  Biddle confirmed
that the motion made would be a denial of a gate.
Alderman Carroll emphasized that Cades Cove was developed and approved
the way it is today for connectivity. Mr. Biddle concurred stating; "That's
exactly correct. One major question about the review, was the connectivity
that's part of any subdivision review is, how is connectivity going to be, and
not just for the time being, but for generations after."
Alderman Kelley stated her concerns about the financial impact to the property
owners.
Alderman Mosteller stated;" if this gate goes up, then you have Southport Way,
Bonnet's Way and Osprey Landing which are all parts of Southport. The only
connectivity to our town is going to be the intersection of 87 and Howe Street
that's going to be under construction with the widening project considerably
until 2027.   Be clear, there has also been discussion about the kinds of gates
and what would be allowed through. The two (2) gates that were given
as examples in our packets did not have a province for people getting through,
except the one at Olde Southport has a door with a key pad on it. I want us
to know that the Olde Southport neighborhood keeps their gate open all day
long starting at 7:00 am and closes it at 7:00 p.m. or later depending on ifit
is summer. This is a mess but long term future of the city connectivity, long
term future of the city is better ifwe work with the HOA to figure out how to
adopt the roads so it takes the burden long term off of them financially,
that's not a good solution but gating it is a whole other conversation and we
talked about bicycle and pedestrian access, that was in our packet but then
we talked about golf cart access but that is not in any of the
documentation and you would have to have a six foot wide opening on each side
of the gate to allow golf carts to pass through. Golf carts can't burnp up on
the sidewalks.  I'm assuming laws apply there too. You just can't drive a golf
cart on the sidewalk and quite honestly, bicycles aren't supposed to be on
sidewalks if you are over 15 years old. They expect us adults to be in the
roads with our bikes. This whole gate thing, I appreciate everything and I am
not minimizing any of this but there has to be a better solution long term with
roads and paying for roads and that's the sticking point, it's incumbent on us
to figure it out.  A gate is not in the best interest of the cornrnunity."
Mayor Alt stated the following; "There are
two things that can happen here.  1.  Ifwe ever figure out a better way of
doing this, I suppose the gate could come down if they figured it out.   2. I
hate to say this because it is going to impact me, there is actually going to
be another north/south corridor to get into the downtown section.  You'll be
able to flow from Robert Ruark all the way down to 9 th  Street by another road
and that's the road that is going to be built in Waterview, Indigo 2, whatever
you want to call it. So there is access to get out of there and for
the conversation about what happens during an emergencies, we've had long
extended conversations about that. During evacuations the gate would
be open. Fire Department, Police Department can open the gate at will and they
are going to be working on a process so on the 4 th of July it will.be open,
and big holidays when we have lots of traffic it will be open as well. Those
conversations have already taken place."
Responding to a query by Alderman Carroll, Alderman Kelley indicated
the roads in Waterview/Indigo 2 will be dedicated as public prior to any
building.
Alderman Davis broached the subject of Olde Southport's streets being a
loop that takes you back where you started. Alderman Carroll
added that Old Southport was not developed for connectivity.
Alderman Carroll asked Chief Coring if any studying of the complaints had been
performed.   Chief Coring stated that when calls are received about speed
in any neighborhood, the department does stationary patrols, puts
in a sign that monitors the traffic and the department evaluates that
information.   He stated it had been six (6) years since a study had been done
in Cades Cove.
Quoting the Planning Director, Alderman Mosteller said; "inter connected
streets provide safe and efficient routes that function independently and
promote multiple modes of transportation such as cars, walking,
biking and golf carts and the frequency and length of time major roads is
reduced, minimizes the impacts of future development and environment."
At Mayor Alt's request, City Manager Saldo confirmed that a vote in favor
of the motion would be "no gate."
Vote:      Ayes: Aldermen Carroll, Mosteller, Lai, Spencer Nay:   Aldermen
Davis, Kelly
Vote: 4-2; Motion Carried.
2.   Old City HaWCourthouse (Agenda pages 12-17)
City Engineer Tom Zilinek spoke about the Old City Hall/Courthouse project. He
gave an update; he and Police Chief Coring met with Moseley Architects
to walk through the building, the first Moseley had of the building. The
outcome was that they determined it has sufficient capacity for the Police
Department, both current and future needs. Moseley prepared preliminary
drawings and a cost estimate of what it would cost to make it into a Police
station (numbers and plans provided in the agenda packet).
Mr. Zilinek reviewed the overall space needs:
•   Police Department Current Space   7,151 sq. ft.
•   Space Needs to 2044
      8,600 sq. ft.
(includes a 35% internal circulation factor)
•   A Sally Port  would be added in the future if needed 800 sq. ft.
(would not be part of the existing building)
Total Current Needs  6,300 sq. ft.
•   Old City Hall   8,500 sq. ft.
Mr. Zilinek reported that the space includes
a training room and a 30 seat multi purpose room that will be used as the Board
of Aldermen Chamber, Planning Board, Board of Adjustment and any other
committees meeting room.
Pointing out he was asked
to look into Old City Hall being used for Administrative space.
The Moseley report provided the following:
•   Current Administrative Space   7,700 sq. ft.
•   Space Needs to 2044   8,800 sq. ft.
•   Proposed Courtroom   1,800 sq. ft.
•   Proposed Useable Office Space   6,700 sq. ft.
•   Old City Hall   8,500 sq. ft.
Pointing out she had specific architectural questions for Moseley Architects,
and they were not present, Alderman Mosteller suggested tabling the discussion
until the architects could be present.   She sited as some of her
concerns; have to go through the gun cleaning and bag and tag room to get
to the sergeant's office and the proposed reduction in size of the Aldermen's
Chambers.
Mayor Alt recommended moving the discussion to the Board's March meeting. He
indicated he had questions also and suggested each Board member write down any
questions they may have and provide those to Moseley. Mr. Zilinek to confirm
the attendance of Moseley Architects at one of the March meetings.
Alderman Carroll shared his concern; "I think it is important for us to
recognize the historical aspects of this structure as we continue to move
forward and really trying to bring it back to what it really was. The two 
(2) wings on either side, I would like us to try to make those look better. A
previous architect did some work on that to make it look a heck of a lot
better, brought in bigger windows, make it look much better than it does
today."
3.   NC Wildlife Sunny Point Property Sale Extension Request  (Agenda pages 18-
24)
Mr. Ben Solomon addressed the Board regarding the Southport-White Springs
acquisition
(City of Southport 427 acre property adjacent to Military Ocean Terminal Sunny
Point (MOTSU).
Mr. Solomon emphasized why is it important to Conserve Land:
•   to conserve North Carolina's wildlife resources and their habitats and
provide programs
and opportunities that allow hunters, anglers, boaters and other outdoor
enthusiasts to enjoy wildlife-associated recreation
•   Focus on Four (4) Categories
   •   Protect Populations
   •   Protect Habitat
   •   Expand Public Land
   •   Create Public Access
Mr. Solomon stated the Southport-White Springs property is unique
in that it checks all four of the categories. He indicated that
14 acres of the tract are to be retained by the City and Brunswick County.
Mr. Solomon's presentation continued:
Biological Overview
•   Tract will be an addition to Green Swamp Game Land
•   Extremely biodiverse and ecologically significant property
•   Home to one of seven remaining Carolina Gopher Frog  populations
in North Carolina, Several other non-game species have been documented on the
tract including Eastern Chicken Turtle and Red-Cockaded Woodpecker
•   The adjacent Swain Tract of Green Swamp Game
Land is a reintroduction site for the federally endangered Magnificant Rams
Horn Snail
Mr. Solomon pointed out that the property is a very fragile ecosystem
that Wildlife has a high interest in conserving and managing into
perpetuity.   Any industry, hydrology altering activity would undoubtedly
change the nature of the habitat that is currently on the tract. Any mining or
wells that alter the water table would have a detrimental impact on this
one of seven Carolina Gopher Frog populations.
Acquisition Timeline
Acquisition has received final approval from NCWRC Board of Commissioners
Council of State review is scheduled for early March
NCWRC has been awarded three grants (federal and state) to purchase
the property at appraised value $637,535
One of the funding sources (NC Land and Water Fund) requires the grantee
to complete a boundary survey with updated legal description
Survey work is also required to complete two sub-
divisions for parcels retained by the
City and County
Mr. Solomon reported that a surveyor has been contracted. He explained that
they had a hard time finding a surveyor that would take on the property. That
is not uncommon for Brunswick County, it's a problem statewide. The surveyor
is actually coming from Troy, North Carolina to complete the survey,
he was on site last week and he is making good progress. The estimated
completion date of the survey is mid March. Title work has been contracted and
is underway with expected completion mid March also.
Acquisition Timeline 
Items needed to close
•   Complete boundary survey
•   Council of State approval
•   Title report
•   Attorney General's Office Review
•   Closing
Extending the option agreement will allow time to complete due diligence
and close by September.
Mr. Solomon estimated that late April, early May is a realistic
time line to get everything completed and send the property to close. He spoke
about the option agreement extension that Wildlife feels is critical in order
to have success serving this property. Without the extension Wildlife would be
up against a tight time line window. So, the extension would move our option
expiration date from March 21 to July 31, 2025 with a closing to occur on or
before September 5, 2025.
In response to questions from Alderman Davis, Alderman Kelley, Alderman
Lai, and Mayor Alt, Mr. Solomon explained that the property would be open to
the public for archery-only hunting six days a week. He clarified that
the archery-only restriction is due to the site's proximity to the Military
Ocean Terminal Sunny Point (MOTSU). Enforcement of hunting regulations would be
handled by Brunswick County game wardens.
Mayor
Alt shared his frustration that the purchase transaction has taken over a year.
Mr. Solomon explained the process the agency is required to follow.
Mayor Alt asked the Board to consider postponing this decision
until the March Thursday meeting in order to get more information on the group
Unique Places To Save.  He stated the group came up just this morning when he
was talking to multiple mayors in this area. Boiling Spring Lakes (BSL) had
them. He provided a synopsis of what the group does; "the group goes out, they
get the grants, they buy the property, and once they get the property, they
deed it back to the jurisdiction to manage the conservancy. St. James is going
to do it with 450 acres on NC 211. It is a conservancy, no basketball
court, no playgrounds, no anything and basically the same configuration
as this. I don't know the pros and cons enough to have that conversation
now and I would ask that we wait for 30 days to get more information to
see where we are going because this has not been a high priority for the
state of NC to take a year for this so another 30 days shouldn't hinder what
they are doing, I'm not suggesting for a moment that we pull out of the
agreement, I'm just saying that perhaps there are other options that we may
want to take a look at since it is taking so long." Mayor Alt suggested having
further conversations with the Mayors ofBSL and St. James; the pros and cons.
Stating appreciation for all the dialogue, Alderman Mosteller said; "This is wholly different
from what you are talking about because Wildlife already owns the two adjacent
properties of White Springs National Heritage Area of which we are the third
star and we actually are the most significantly valuable piece of the three.
Wildlife gets our piece then they manage it along with those pieces. They have
to know that we did sand mining and lost the $ l .6M grant because it had
a conservation clause in it that we did not adhere to. So Wildlife has to spend
money to repair that damage once they own it. So, there is nothing to wait
on. This is absolutely the right thing to do for this parcel of property."
Alderman Mosteller, "I want to make a motion to extend the expiration date of
the option agreement Parcel ID# 1900002 to new expiration
date of July 31, 2025 with closing to occur on or before September 5,
2025."  Alderman Carroll seconded the motion.
Discussion
Alderman Davis indicated she would like to hear from Unique Places
to Save, possibly a presentation made to the Board.
Alderman Mosteller; "What I would say is they are investing in all of
this and we are hoping they will continue with this contract but we're saying
now that we're going to entertain someone else. You do that at the end of the
contract ifit doesn't work. And, they are the ones that are going to manage
it. They are going to do the burns, they are going to do all the things that
need to be done to manage it. They are going to restore the damage that we
created. To get somebody else to buy it to give it back to us, it needs to go
into conservancy in perpetuity with Wildlife because it's part of that full
ecosystem there."
Mayor Alt; "30 days is just to get all the data. As you remember when this was
first proposed it was one shop stop, we never put this out for bid, we never
looked at all the other conservancies, we never did anything.  We went to this
group and this group only and now they have had a year to play in this,
they couldn't find a surveyor. I find that almost unbelievable.  So that is all
I'm suggesting you consider is that three week period to see what the pros and
cons would be and if the cons outweigh the pros of this then we should move
forward with this. All we're doing is postponing this decision for three
weeks."
Noting the City is still under contract with Wildlife, Alderman Kelley stated;  "I want to
remind everyone that we are selling this property significantly less than what
we purchased it for regardless. The City of Southport is making a huge
investment into the conservation of this piece of land. I think 30 days to make
sure we are doing the best thing for the citizens makes a whole lot of sense."
Alderman Lai stated; "You guys are going to go on asking for an extension. Why
can't it? Why can't we do two things at a time and see if there's something
else out there? I'm all in favor of what's going on, but if there is something
else out there, I'd like to hear what it is and better educate myself."
Alderman Carroll suggested a compromise; "come together with a motion that
would allow us to move forward with what Alderman Mosteller is suggesting with
the exception that something could
change." Mayor Alt stated; "I don't think so. It's either get 30 days to consider other options or we go
with the motion."
Ayes: Mosteller, Davis, Carroll Nay: Lai, Kelley, Spencer Mayor: Nay
4-3
Motion Failed.
Responding to a query from Alderman Mosteller, Mr. Solomon indicated they would
continue forward with the survey and their due diligence. As long as the City
agrees to uphold the current option agreement, we will do everything
in our power to purchase the property by the option deadline.
Mayor Alt; "And I will give you the best commitment
I can that we will get you an answer as quickly as we can. I do not want this
to drag on. It is unfair to all sides."
Alderman Carroll asked if Wildlife may be able to close by the date currently
in the contract. Mr. Solomon responded it would be very difficult
and it was prudent to request an extension in advance of the option expiration.
4.   Concession Agreements  (Agenda pages 24-48)
Ms. Allayna Taylor, Director of Community Relations,
spoke to the Board regarding two (2)   Concession Agreements
the City has with the Southport Historical Society; the Old Jail and the Susie
Carson Research Room. She indicated the Old Jail is a lease because
the Historical Society gets the use of the entire property. The concession
agreement for the Susie Carson Research Room is for an archivist and research
space in Fort Johnston. Both agreements are due for renewal she said.
Responding to a questions from Alderman Davis,
Ms. Taylor stated that the Southport Historical Society is local to Southport
and it is a non profit whose mission is to preserve the history of Southport.
Mayor Alt asked about the Ft. Johnston Gift Shop. Ms. Taylor indicated that Mr.
Phil Fravel had run the gift shop and research center up to his passing. In
talks with the Historical Society, the society
chose to leave the gift shop out of the Concession Agreement. The current
Concession Agreement is for the Susie Carson Research Room only, it does not
have specific hours, it is run by Southport Historical Society volunteers which
are different from the volunteers that the City has to run the Visitors
Center. She stated that the Concession Agreement would maintain
the status quo and would not be changing anything City Staff does.
Alderman Kelley asked about the gift shop. Ms. Taylor responded that
the gift shop is not in operation. "After Phil's passing, the Historical
Society and my department talked about my department taking back over
the gift shop and starting to run it through the City. Those talks were being
had with the previous City Manager. Unfortunately by January 1, 2025, an
agreement had not been made so instead the Historical Society pulled out and we
currently do not have a gift shop next door."
Board members speculated on if the City needed a gift shop and asked
if volunteers are being sought for that role. Ms. Taylor spoke about
the fantastic job the current volunteers are doing talking to visitors
and sharing the history of Southport every day but not operating a gift
shop. Alderman Carroll asked if the City made any income from the gift
shop. Ms. Taylor indicated that any profits made had to go back into the
building per the State Historic Preservation Office (SHPO) standards.
Mayor Alt pointed out there was nothing that would prevent the Historical
Society from operating a gift shop in the future. Ms. Taylor concurred
and stated a separate agreement would have to be adopted saying so.
Alderman Carroll asked why an agreement on operation of the gift shop had not
been made. Ms. Taylor stated that Phil's passing was sudden, it was holiday
time and the Historical Society wanted to have things in place by January 1 
for sales tax reasons. At that time, the Historical Society was uninterested in
continuing the gift shop. They felt it was beyond their bandwidth without Phil.
Alderman Mosteller made a motion to approve the Susie Carson Research Room
Concession Agreement between the City of Southport and the Southport Historical
Society which grants the Southport Historical Society exclusive
use of the easternmost exhibit room in the Garrison House for archival storage
and research in accordance with the terms outlined with the agreement. Alderman
Kelley seconded the motion.
Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Ms. Taylor pointed out that two (2) changes to the Old Jail agreement were
made by the City Attorney:
•   Be clear about the insurance and liability that the City requires
•   Shorten the term to a 5-year from a IO-year
Alderman Carroll asked about the details of the insurance. Ms. Taylor indicated
the details are in the lease agreement, what they are currently carrying
and has been looked over by the City Attorney.
Mayor Alt questioned who is in charge of looking at the leases/agreements, etc.
for the variety of different buildings leased oftentimes for a dollar
a year. City Manager Saldo stated there was not a formalized review process
other than when it comes up for renewal which is handled
by the specific department handling it. He added that a process can
be something staff puts in place though his office, City Attorney, and
department heads. Mayor Alt pointed out there should be a yearly update
to determine the lessee is maintaining the required insurance coverage.
Stating he did not know you could insure a building you did not own, Alderman
Carroll pointed out that the Historical Society is carrying fire hazard and
casualty insurance on the structure. Ms. Taylor stated the insurance was
difficult to get but because of the agreement language, the insurance
entity was assured the Historical Society has the sole use of the building and
they open it for tours as well.
Responding to a query by Alderman Carroll, Ms. Taylor state the building is insured
at $1M per occurrence and $2M aggregate and indemnity.
Mayor Alt directed the City Manager to make sure in other agreements
for buildings, the insurance coverage reflects the true value of the building.
Alderman Mosteller made a motion to approve the lease agreement
as presented between the City of Southport and the Southport Historical Society
for the management, maintenance, and operation of the Old Jail
Building. Alderman Spencer seconded the motion.
Unanimous vote; Motion carried.
5.   Potential UDO Updates
Mayor Alt explained his intentions of putting UDO Updates on the agenda for the
audience; "When I put this on the agenda for the updates, some of this has
already been set into motion, some of it has not. What happened is that
policies and procedures are, we building out and we didn't realize that every
year the legislation could change but we never updated it. So, our UDO is out
of sync in a number of different places. There are a number of things that need
to be done. There are a number of others, i.e. stormwater, and Mr. Zilinek has
given us an update on some of that. Most of it is in some form of forward
progress. And then there's the other outstanding issues. I'd like to get the
seal of the Board about getting a small work group together that would be
staff, there are a couple of citizens are really subject matter experts on this
and a couple of elected officials to start the process of finally getting
everything together that we think we need to look at and what does that look
like. It may mean that we need to go out for a contract. It may mean a lot of
different things. I don't know what it means but I know we've talked about
it for a long time and I think we need to look at how we do that. Now I could
just do that because the power of the Mayor allows it, but if there is no will
of the Board, I don't want to waste the time and money to do that so I am
asking you for a nod of your head or something that says should we go forward
with that."
Alderman Davis stated her support and suggested publicly advertising for
volunteers.
Alderman Mosteller expressed confusion.  Mayor Alt stated he was not
suggesting a
comprehensive update of the UDO; "to look at the UDO, to work with the Manager,
to look at what is out of date, what needs to be done, prioritize those things
and start moving forward, the low hanging fruit we could start addressing
relatively quickly."
Pointing out that staff is responsible for UDO amendments, etc. Alderman Mosteller
emphasized; "Staff should be able to go through the UDO. That's part of their
job is to recommend updates. If you're talking statutorily and statutory
changes and that sort of thing, that's a staff function. What happens is that
when we updated it in 2020, there were legislative things in the old UDO that
we corrected. That happens and all we need is to say to staff that on an annual
or session basis, review session law and propose UDO updates because these are
text amendments and go through the process. This is really a staff function."
Mayor Alt shared his experiences that citizens have expressed concerns
about the UDO to him. Alderman Lai questioned if citizens should first reach
out to the City Manager.
Alderman Kelley concurred and she stated her opinion that asking citizens for
input is always a good opportunity. Expressing confusion, Alderman Carroll
asked if the point of the discussion was just UDO statutory updates
or more. City Manager Saldo responded; "I think there are two conversations
that we can pursue. The first is the legislative changes that have been made
and need updated in the UDO and Code of Ordinances. Then as we identify issues
in the UDO, bring those to the Board. I'll work with staff and any concerned
citizens."
Alderman Carroll asked if there was a specific timeline as to how often the UDO
should be updated. Alderman Mosteller indicated that last major update was
2020; "we tasked the Plannning Board with going section by section,
reviewing and updating." She pointed out that a major UDO update is also a
budgetary item. She recalled submitting potential updates to the Planning
Director six (6) or eight (8) months ago.
Mayor Alt stated; " I understand the complexity of doing an entire UDO
rewrite. I'm
suggesting something less than that. There's some real low hanging fruit we can chat about. We have
good intentions, but we never seem to move forward. I'm looking for helping all ofus, get focused, staff
get focused and if it's every quarter, they come to us. I think the manager has a good point, we let him
work with staff and citizens, he brings suggestions to the Board and we direct
the Planning Board to take action."  Similar to Alderman Mosteller, Mayor Alt
recalled submitting ideas to the Planning Director.  Alderman Davis did as
well.  Alderman Mosteller stated her support for a quarterly review.
Board consensus for the City Manager to work with staff, any concerned
citizen and determine the best course of action for UDO amendments.
G.   City Manager's Report
City Manager Saldo reported he has had exceptional
meetings with staff and community members during his first few days and
indicated he would continue to work on key issues; "I look forward to moving
the organization forward."
H.   Mayor's Comments
Mayor Alt reported that a local and state government meeting
is to be held in Raleigh February 26, two Board members are attending, and he
reminded the Board to convey any thoughts and concerns to him prior to the
26th.
Mayor Alt shared his recent visit to Dublin County, a farming
community. He stated the government buildings are spectacular,
everything is new, they have a convention/auditorium that was all paid for by
the State of North Carolina.
I.   Board Comments
Alderman
Spencer commented; "From what I've heard this meeting, we have to decide how we
move forward. We see our country moving towards more of a protective state,
blocking our borders,
protecting ourselves, taking away giving to the outside and turning inward. I think that is a fair
assessment of what's happening around the nation. We're no different. We've got to decide are we
going to have our arms wide open or are we going to be protective about our properties? Cut them, shut
them down to traffic and keep them for ourselves. And it has to be a decision of what is right for the
future of Southport. I am conflicted
with connectivity. It's a double edged sword. The more
connectivity you have, the more we allow people to flow through our roads that don't pay the bills. And
it is a tough position to be in. I'm proud that people come to my hometown, but I'm tired, it's sort of like
visitors. After a while, you just want to go home and stay there. We have more difficult conversations
in the 2050 Comprehensive
Plan. And, ifl'm the only one that wants to sort of slow down, then maybe,
I need to be quiet. I want people to come out and speak their mind about what they want to see in
Southport. I'm not so excited about the tourism economy, it doesn't feed anyone, it doesn't provide
sustainable wage job for anyone. The only sustainable wage jobs we have are government and they are
low paying jobs. So, all these decisions have to come from what we really want to be. I think that with
the 2050 Comprehensive Plan we need to step up and look harder at that and be more detailed and more
intent as to what we want in the future."
Alderman Kelley shared; " We have another new Southport resident.  I want to
congratulate my brother and sister-in-law on their daughter, Palmer, who was
born last Thursday. I want to welcome Noah to the table with us. I want to tell
you how excited I am, I think we all have quite a vote of confidence in you,
and we're excited to watch you help us move forward without having a break in
anything that we are doing. I think there is value in the fact that you know
what's been going on in our City, and you'll make this transition for us as a
Board, as well as for our staff and all the citizens and businesses as easy as
possible."
Alderman Davis spoke; "I  read and heard a bit about last Thursday night when
we came out of closed session and appointed Noah Saldo as Interim City
Manager. There was reaction about what happened to the previous city
manager. Was there lack of transparency about whatever happened to him? That it
occurred in closed session and our city attorney was with us and advised us
that it was a personnel matter and that we did not have the right to say
anything about it. It would be up to him, the fact that he had tendered his
resignation. Ultimately, there was a press release from the City, which he had
approved, so there was no lack of transparency."
Alderman Carroll stated; "I thought we had a
great meeting today.  This is how it's supposed to play out. And Noah, you
stepped up to the plate and we appreciate that very much. This mayor, this
Board are here to support you and to support our staff."
Alderman Mosteller; "I would just hope that the Cades Cove conversation will
continue with regard to the roads, staff is going to be available to them
to answer any questions and to work with them
in the future for possible road assumption."  Additionally, she echoed sentiments by Aldermen
Kelley and Carroll towards Interim City Manager Noah Saldo.
J.   Closed Session NCGS 143-318.11  - 1:50 p.m.
Alderman Kelley made a motion to go into Closed Session per NCGS 143-318.11
(3), (5).  Motion seconded by Alderman Lai.  Unanimous vote; motion carried.
(3)   To consult with an attorney employed or retained by the
public body in order to preserve the attorney-client privilege between
the attorney and the public body, which privilege is hereby acknowledged.
(5)   To establish, or to instruct the public body's staff or negotiating
agents concerning the position to be taken by or on behalf of the public body
in negotiating (I) the price and other material items of a contract or proposed
contract for the acquisition of real property by purchase, option, exchange, or
lease; (ii) the amount of compensation and other materials terms of an
employment contract or proposed employment contract.
Return to Regular Session - 2:30 p.m.
Alderman Spencer made a motion to close Closed Session and re-enter Regular
Session.
Alderman Kelley seconded the motion.  Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Alderman Mosteller made a motion to appoint Fox Rothschild as special Shoreline
Stabilization attorney and approve the underlying contract not to exceed
$40,000.
Alderman Carroll seconded the motion. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
Alderman Kelley made a motion to adopt the Interim City Manager's contract.
Alderman Lai seconded the motion.  Unanimous vote; motion carried.
K.   Adjourn
Alderman Spencer moved to adjourn the meeting at 2:34 p.m., seconded
by Alderman Lai. Unanimous vote; motion carried.
 
ATTEST:
Tori Deviney, Deputy CrtyCierkQ
(2B.(h;r-
Richard Alt, Mayor
 
