TOWN OF STOKESDALE, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ord. -, passed 4-9-2026
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TOWN CHARTER
**** SECTION I. CHARTER ****
GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF NORTH CAROLINA SESSION 1989
SESSION LAW 1989-488 SENATE BILL 663
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE TOWN OF STOKESDALE, SUBJECT TO A REFERENDUM.
The General Assembly of North Carolina enacts:
SECTION 1. Charter for the Town of Stokesdale is enacted to read:
CHARTER OF THE TOWN OF STOKESDALE
**** SECTION II. CORPORATE BOUNDARIES ****
SEC. 2.1. TOWN BOUNDARIES.
   Until modified in accordance with law, the boundaries of the Town of
Stokesdale are as follows:
   BEGINNING at a point at the common junction of the Guilford-Forsyth County
line and the Guilford-Rockingham County line; thence in a southerly direction
along the Guilford-Forsyth County line some 10,830 feet more or less to a point
on the centerline of Highway US 158 where it intersects the Guilford-Forsyth
County line; thence in an easterly direction some 150 feet more or less along
the centerline of said US 158 to a point in the western property line of one
Duke Power Company; thence in a southerly direction some 230 feet more or less
to a corner in said Duke Powerline; thence in an easterly direction some 150
feet more or less along a property line of said Duke Power to a corner in said
Duke Power line; thence in a southerly direction some 2180 feet more or less
along the western property line of said Duke Power to a corner in said Duke
Power’s line; thence in an easterly direction some 70 feet more or less along
the southern property line of said Duke power to a junction point of said
property line with the western property line of one James M. Searcy; thence in
a southerly direction some 1620 feet more or less along the western property
line of said James M. Searcy to a corner of said James M. Searcy and one Lelia
Martin Heirs properties; thence in an easterly direction some 1360 feet more or
less along the southern property lines of said James M. Searcy and one Shelia
K. Smith to a junction point of the western property line of one Pamela K. M.
Tate in said Shelia K. Smith property line; thence in a southerly direction
some 500 feet more or less along the western property lines of said Pamela K.
Martin Tate and one Eugene Martin; thence in an easterly direction from the
southwestern corner of said Eugene Martin’s property some 200 feet more or less
along said Eugene Martin’s line to the center of SR 2032 (Happy Bill Road);
thence in a southerly direction some 600 feet more or less along said SR 2032
to a point in the southern property line of one Daniel Martin; thence in an
easterly direction some 100 feet more or less along the southern property line
of said Daniel Martin; thence in a south-southeasterly direction some 300 feet
more or less along the southwestern property line of one W. Roy Reid; thence in
an easterly direction some 130 feet more or less along the southern property
line of said W. Roy Reid to the southeast corner of said W. Roy Reid property;
thence in a northerly and northeasterly direction some 1080 feet more or less
along said W. Roy Reid’s property line to a point in the southwestern property
line of one John L. Franklin; thence in a southeasterly direction some 220 feet
more or less along the southwestern property line of said John L. Franklin to a
point in the property line of one Richard Williams; thence in a northern
direction some 400 feet more or less along the property line of said John L.
Franklin to a corner at the west end of the southern property line of said John
L. Franklin; thence in an easterly direction some 940 feet more or less along
the southern property line of said John L. Franklin to a point in the western
property line of one Ina P. Furnas; thence in a southerly direction some 1160
feet more or less along the western property line of said Ina P. Furnas to the
southwest corner of said Ina P. Furnas property; thence in an easterly
direction some 190 feet more or less along the southern property line of said
Ina P. Furnas to a point where the northwest most corner of one H. Broadus
Pearman Heirs property meets the southern property line of said Ina P. Furnas;
thence in a southerly direction some 2500 feet more or less meandering along
the western property line of said H. Broadus Pearman Heirs property to a point
in SR 2033 (Warner Road); thence in an easterly direction some 500 feet more or
less along said SR 2033 to a point at the northeast corner of the property of
one Minnie F. Pearman being a common corner in said H. Broadus Pearman Heirs
property line; thence in a southerly direction some 960 feet more or less along
the western property line of said H. Broadus Pearman Heirs to the southwest
most corner of said H. Broadus Pearman Heirs property; thence in an easterly
direction some 3460 feet more or less along the southern property lines of said
H. Broadus Pearman Heirs and one Larry D. Combs to the southeast corner of said
Larry D. Combs property; thence in a northerly direction some 1550 feet more or
less along the eastern property line of said Larry D. Combs to a point in SR
2033 (Warner Road) at SR 2034 (Anthony Road); thence in an easterly direction
some 1260 feet more or less along said SR 2033 to a point at the junction of SR
2033 and SR 2028 (Haw River Road); thence in a northeasterly direction some 180
feet more or less along said SR 2028 to a point being the southeast most corner
of one Edna Pegram; thence in a southeasterly direction some 1240 feet more or
less along the southern property lines of one Pegram Properties, Ltd. to a
point and corner in the western property line of said Pegram Properties, Ltd.;
thence in a southerly direction some 3000 feet more or less along the western
property tine of said Pegram Properties, Ltd.; thence in an easterly direction
some 1260 feet more or less along the southern property line of said Pegram
Properties, Ltd. to a corner in said Pegram Properties, Ltd. line thence in an
east northeasterly direction some 1600 feet more or less along the east
southeastern property line of said Pegram Properties, Ltd. to a point in said
Pegram Properties, Ltd. property line, the same point being some 460 feet more
or less east-northeast of the northwest most corner of one Alan D. Wiener’s
property; thence in a south-southeasterly direction some 1500 feet more or less
on a line across the properties of said Alan D. Wiener and one Felix A.
Euforbia, to a point on the north side of SR 2029 (West Harrell Road) this said
point being some 500 feet more or less west of the junction of SR 2029 (West)
and Highway NC 68; thence in an easterly direction some 500 feet more or less
along the north side of said SR 2029 to a point being the southwest corner of
one Jimmy and Larry Maddox property; thence in a northeasterly direction some
1000 feet more or less along the southeastern property line of said Jimmy and
Larry Maddox to a point being the junction of the common property of said
Maddox property and one Velner B. Carpenter property and said southeastern
property line of said Maddox property; thence in an east-northeasterly
direction some 1900 feet more or less along the southeastern property line of
said Velner B. Carpenter to a junction point the same being the southwest most
common corner between said Velner B. Carpenter and one John L. Haithcock
properties; thence in a southerly direction some 1360 feet more or less along
the western property line of said John L. Haithcock and one L. D. Graham to the
southwest corner of said L. D. Graham property; thence in an easterly direction
some 580 feet more or less along the property line of said L. D. Graham to a
corner; thence in a southerly direction some 180 feet more or less along the
property line of said L. D. Graham to a corner; thence in an east northeasterly
direction some 840 feet more or less along the southern property line of said
L. D. Graham to a corner; thence in a north northwesterly direction some 270
feet more or less along the property line of said L. D. Graham to a corner;
thence in an east-northeasterly direction some 225 feet more or less along the
property line of said L. D. Graham to a corner; thence in a northerly direction
some 1640 feet more or less along said L. D. Graham’s property line to the
stream of Haw River; thence in an east-northeasterly direction some 13,020 feet
more or less along the stream bed of said Haw River to a point in the property
line of one Cebron Preston the same being the most northwest corner of the
property of one Frances B. Angel; thence in an easterly direction some 480 feet
more or less along the common property line between said Cebron Preston and
said Frances B. Angel; thence in an easterly direction some 320 feet more or
less along the southern property line of one Katherine F. Pegram to a corner;
thence in a southerly direction some 240 feet more or less along the property
line of said Katherine F. Pegram to a corner; thence in an east-northeasterly
direction some 2015 feet more or less along the southern property line of said
Katherine F. Pegram to a point in one Phyliss C. Underwood’s property line;
thence in a southerly direction some 40 feet more or less along the property
line of said Phyliss C. Underwood to the southwest most corner of Phyliss C.
Underwood’s property; thence in an east-northeasterly direction some 1700 feet
more or less along the southern property line of said Phyliss C. Underwood to
the southeast corner of said Phyliss C. Underwood’s property, the same being a
point in the common property line between said Phyliss C. Underwood and one
Rush Hardin; thence in an east-northeasterly direction some 1160 feet more or
less along the southern property line of said Rush Hardin to the southeast
corner of said Rush Hardin’s property; thence in a north-northwesterly
direction some 2400 feet more or less along the eastern property line of said
Rush Hardin to a comer in the property line of said Rush Hardin; thence in a
west-southwesterly direction some 425 feet more or less along the property line
of said Rush Hardin to a Corner in the property line of said Rush-Hardin;
thence in a north- northwesterly direction some 2870 feet more or less along
the eastern property line of said Rush Hardin to a point in the property line
of one Walter L. Combs southern property line; thence in an easterly direction
some 1040 feet more or less along the property line of said Walter L. Combs to
a point on Highway US 220; thence in a north northwesterly direction some 1200
feet more or less along said Highway US 220; thence in a westerly direction
some 2850 feet more or less along the north property line of said Walter L.
Combs property; thence continuing in a westerly direction some 920 feet more or
less on a property line through one Vulcan Materials property to a corner in
said Vulcan Materials property; thence in a northerly direction some 1480 feet
more or less on a property line through said Vulcan Materials property to a
point in the west by northwest property line of one Duke Power Company; thence
continuing in a northerly direction some 270 feet more or less to a corner in
the common property line between said Duke Power and one Mary O. Blackburn;
thence in a north to northwesterly to westerly to southwesterly direction some
2980 feet more or less meandering along the common property line between said
Duke Power and said Mary O. Blackburn to a common corner where the said Duke
Power property line meets the Vulcan Materials property line; thence in a
southwesterly direction some 990 feet more or less along the property line of
one Lewis Vernon to a corner in said Lewis Vernon’s property line; thence in a
southwesterly direction some 240 feet more or less along the property line of
said Lewis Vernon to a common corner of said Lewis Vernon and one Michael H.
Reid; thence in a northerly direction some 75 feet more or less to a corner in
said Lewis Vernon’s property line; thence in a north northwesterly direction
some 1200 feet more or less on a line across the property of said Michael H.
Reid to a point on the said Michael H. Reid property; thence in a northwesterly
direction some 300 feet more or less on a line across the property of said
Michael H. Reid to the eastern most corner of one Florence L. Southard
property; thence in a northwesterly direction some 340 feet more or less along
the eastern property line of said Florence L. Southard; thence in a
northwesterly direction some 680 feet more or less along the eastern property
line of one Dewey A. Southard and others to a point in the Guilford-Rockingham
County line; thence in a westerly direction some 26,020 feet more or less along
said Guilford-Rockingham County line to the point and place of beginning.
   The above delineated boundaries of the Town of Stokesdale are as shown on
the Guilford County Tax Maps:
 
ACL - 2 - 12   ACL - 1 - 39
ACL - 2 - 70   ACL - 10 - 658
ACL - 6 - 376  ACL -1- 62
ACL - 1 - 58   and ACL - - 379
ACL - 10 - 656  
 
and are the same boundaries as are delineated on the above said Guilford County
Tax Maps and designated as the Stokesdale Fire District Lines.”
SEC. 2.2.
   This act shall become effective at the same time as the Charter of the Town
of Stokesdale became effective.
   In the General Assembly read three times and ratified this the 18th day of
July 1990.
**** SECTION III. GOVERNING BODY ****
SEC. 3.1 STRUCTURE OF GOVERNING BODY, NUMBER OF MEMBERS.
   The governing body of the Town of Stokesdale is the Town Council, which has
five members.
SEC. 3.2.
   The qualified voters of the entire Town elect the members of the Town
Council.
SEC. 3.3.
   From the effective date of this Charter until the organizational meeting of
the Town Council after the 1991 municipal election, the members of the Town
Council shall be Clifton Hill, Powell M. Shelton, Sr., A.B. Fulp, Jesse Joyce,
and Larry Williams.
SEC. 3.4.
   At the regular town election in 1991, five council members shall be elected.
The persons receiving the three highest numbers of votes shall be elected for
four-year terms and the two persons receiving the next highest number of votes
shall be elected for two-year terms. In 1993 and quadrennially thereafter, two
council members shall be elected for four-year terms. In 1995 and quadrennially
thereafter, three council members shall be elected for four-year terms.
*** SEC. 3.5.   ***
(Amended November 2, 2004, municipal election).
   At the next regular election in 2005, one mayor and one council member shall
be elected. The person receiving the highest number of votes for the mayor seat
will be elected mayor for a four-year term. The person receiving the highest
number of votes for the council member seat shall be elected for a four-year
term.
*** SEC. 3.6. ***
   In accordance with applicable state law, the city council shall elect one of
its members to act as mayor pro tempore to perform the duties of the mayor in
the mayor’s absence or disability. In the event of a vacancy in the office of
the mayor, the mayor pro tempore shall perform the duties of the mayor until
the vacancy is filled. The mayor pro tempore shall serve in such a capacity for
a term of one (1) year.
   Vacancies on the Town Council shall be filled in accordance with G.S. 1604-
63.
**** SECTION IV. ELECTIONS ****
SEC. 4.1.
   The council shall be elected on the nonpartisan basis and the results
determined by plurality in accordance with G.S. 163-292.
SEC. 4.2.
   Elections shall be conducted in accordance with Chapter 163 of the General
Statutes.
**** SECTION V. ADMINISTRATION ****
SEC. 5.1.
   The Town of Stokesdale shall operate under the mayor-council plan as
provided in Part 3 of Article 7 of chapter 1604 of the General Statutes.
SEC. 5.2.
   From and after the effective date of the incorporation, the citizens and
property in the Town of Stokesdale shall be subject to municipal taxes levies
for the year beginning July 1, 1989, and the businesses in the Town shall be
liable for privilege licenses tax from the effective date of the privilege
license tax ordinance. The Town may adopt a budget ordinance for fiscal year
1989-90 without following the timetable in the Local Government Budget and
Fiscal Control Act, but shall follow the sequence of actions in the spirit of
the act insofar as is practical. For fiscal year 1989-90, ad valorem taxes may
be paid at par or face amount within 90 days of adoption of the budget
ordinance, and thereafter in accordance with the schedule in G.S. 105-360 as if
the taxes had been due and payable on September 1, 1989.
SEC. 5.3.
   (a)   The Guilford County Board of Elections shall conduct an election on
November 7, 1989, for the purpose of submission to the qualified voters of the
area described in Section 2.1 of the Char ter of Stokesdale, the question of
whether or not such area shall be incorporated as Stokesdale. Registration for
the election shall be conducted in accordance with G.S. 163-288.2.
   (b)   In the election, the question on the ballot shall be:
      “[ ]   FOR Incorporation of Stokesdale
       [ ]   AGAINST Incorporation of Stokesdale”
SEC. 5.4.
   In such election, if a majority of the votes are not cast shall be “FOR
Incorporation of Stokesdale”, then Sections 1 and 2 of this act shall have no
force and effect.
SEC. 5.5.
   In such election, if a majority of the votes cast shall be cast shall be
cast “FOR Incorporation of Stokesdale” then Sections 1 and 2 of this act shall
be come effective on the date that the Guilford County Board of Elections
determines the results of the election.
SEC. 5.6.
   This act is effective upon ratification.
   In the General Assembly read three times and ratified this the 28th day of
June 1989.
**** SECTION VI. TAXES AND BUDGET ****
SEC. 6.1. POWERS OF THE TOWN COUNCIL.
   The Town Council may levy those taxes and fees authorized by general law. An
affirmative vote equal to a majority of all the members of the Town Council
shall be required to change the ad valorem tax rate from the rate established
during the prior fiscal year.
SEC. 6.2. PRESENT USE VALUE.
   If an area described in this Ordinance includes agricultural land,
horticultural land, or forestland that on the effective date of incorporation
is land that is being taxed at present-use value, the land shall continue to be
valued for tax purposes at present-use value as long as the land so qualifies.
**** ARTICLE VII. ORDINANCES ****
SEC. 7.1. ORDINANCES.
   Except as otherwise provided in this Charter, the Town of Stokesdale is
authorized to adopt such ordinances as the Town Council deems necessary for the
governance of the Town.
**** ARTICLE VIII. MISCELLANEOUS ****
SEC. 8.1. CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   No person, or member of the person’s immediate family, who is employed by or
is an official, appointed or elected, of the Town of Stokesdale, shall do
business with the Town unless such activity is approved by the Town Council.
All officials of the Town shall inform the Town Council of any conflicts of
interest, and the failure to so inform shall constitute grounds for immediate
dismissal or removal for cause. No official of the Town may accept any gratuity
from any businessperson or other official if the gratuity is related to that
official’s official duties.
SEC. 8.2. ENLARGEMENT OF TOWN COUNCIL.
   The qualified voters of the Town of Stokesdale may seek to enlarge the
number of members of the Town Council by submitting a petition to that effect
signed by twenty percent (20%) of the qualified voters. Upon passage of a
resolution as provided in G.S. 160A -102 or upon receipt of a valid petition,
the Town Council shall immediately take steps as provided in part 4 of Article
5 of Chapter 160A of the General Statutes to determine by referendum whether
the number of members of the Town Council should be increased. If a majority of
the votes cast in the referendum are in the affirmative, a special election
shall be held at the earliest possible date to elect the additional members
required to enlarge the Town Council to the number set forth in the referendum.
SEC. 8.3. PROVISION OF SERVICES AND ADMINISTRATION OF FUNCTIONS.
   The Town Council may enter into agreements with other governmental bodies
and private enterprises for the provision of services and the administration of
corporate functions in order to provide the services and administer the
functions in the most efficient and cost-effective manner.
SECTION 2. From and after January 1, 2009, the citizens and properly in the
Town of Stokesdale shall be subject to municipal taxes levied for the year
beginning January 1, 2009, and for that purpose the Town shall obtain from
Johnston county a record of property in the area herein incorporated that was
listed for taxes as of January 1, 2009, and the businesses in the Town shall be
liable for privilege license tax from the effective date of the privilege
license ordinance. For fiscal year 2009-2010, ad valorem taxes may be paid at
par or face amount within 90 days of adoption of the budget ordinance, and
thereafter in accordance with the schedule in G.S. 105-360 as if the taxes had
been due and payable on September 1, 2009. The Town may adopt a budget
ordinance for fiscal year 2009-2010 without following the timetable in the
Local Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act.
SECTION 3. The Johnston County Board of Elections shall conduct an election on
November 3, 2009, for the purpose of submission to the qualified voters for the
area described in Section 2.1 of the charter of the Town of Stokesdale the
question of whether or not the area shall be incorporated as the Town of
Stokesdale. Registration for the election shall be conducted in accordance with
G.S. 163-288.2.
SECTION 4. In the election, the question on the ballot shall be:
      [ ]   FOR
      [ ]   AGAINST
      Incorporation of the Town of Stokesdale.
SECTION 5. In the election, if a majority of the votes are cast “FOR the
Incorporation of the Town of Stokesdale,” Sections 1 and 2 of this act shall
become effective on the date that the Johnston County Board of Elections
certifies the results of the election. Otherwise, Sections 1 and 2 of this act
shall have no force and effect.
SECTION 6. Until members of the Council are elected in 2011 in accordance with
Section 4.1 of the Town Charter and the laws of North Carolina, Jeff Barnes,
Clyde Castleberry, Matt Mulhollem, John Perry, and Anne Taylor are appointed to
serve as the interim Council, and Mike Gordon is appointed the interim Mayor.
They shall possess and exercise the powers granted to the governing body until
their successors are elected or appointed and qualified pursuant to Articles
III and IV of this Charter. If any person named in this Charter is unable to
serve, the remaining interim Council members shall, by a majority vote, appoint
a person to serve until the initial municipal election is held in 2011.
SECTION 7. This act is effective when it becomes law.
In the General Assembly read three times and ratified this the 11th day of
August, 2009.
s/ Walter H. Dalton
President of the Senate
s/ Joe Hackney
Speaker of the House of Representatives
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
11.   TOWN STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION;
GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time; computing time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinances
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   The provisions embraced in this and the following chapters and sections
shall constitute and be designated the “Code of Ordinances, Town of Stokesdale,
North Carolina”, and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain,
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CHARTER. The Charter of the town.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council of Stokesdale, North Carolina, unless otherwise
specified.
      COUNTY. Guilford County, North Carolina.
      GOVERNOR. The Governor of North Carolina.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving a JOINT AUTHORITY to three or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving that authority to a majority
of those persons or officers.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      MUNICIPALITY or MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. The Town of Stokesdale, North
Carolina.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an OATH and, in such cases, the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of the municipality, unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      OWNER. Applied to any property, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole
or a part of that property.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation, co-
partnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as applied to
any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every species of property, except real property.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
      REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of North Carolina.
      STREET. Any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard,
parkway, dedicated alley, lane, viaduct, bridge and the approaches thereto
within the town, and shall mean the entire width of the right-of-way between
abutting property lines.
      SUBCHAPTER.
         (a)   A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
         (b)   Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. When applied to a building or land, shall include any
person who occupies the whole or a part of that building or land, whether alone
or with others.
      TOWN. The Town of Stokesdale, North Carolina.
      TOWN COUNCIL or COUNCIL. The governing body of the Town of Stokesdale,
North Carolina.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed; equivalent to the
words YEAR OF OUR LORD.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this town shall be by the following
rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
AND/OR, if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, that
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine and
feminine gender shall be deemed to include neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; and the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future,
if applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered, unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the municipality exercising the powers, duties
or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, that spelling shall be corrected and
that word or those words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with
the manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though
the correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within the municipality for the transaction of all
municipal business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME; COMPUTING TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of that act or the giving of that notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced.
   (B)   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication
shall take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
   (B)   Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from their
passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force,
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, section or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, section or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal or
in any way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering
system hereof and printed for inclusion herein. When subsequent ordinances
repeal any chapter, section or division, or any portion thereof, such repealed
portions may be excluded from this code by omission from reprinted pages. The
subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of
repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of the subsequent ordinances numbered or
omitted are readopted as a new code by the town.
   (B)   Amendments to any of the provisions of the code shall be made by
amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this
code in language substantially similar to the following: “Section _________ of
the Code of Ordinances, Town of Stokesdale, North Carolina, is hereby amended
as follows ...” The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (C)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
language substantially similar to the following shall be used: “The Code of
Ordinances, Town of Stokesdale, North Carolina, is hereby amended by adding a
section, to be numbered _______, which section shall read as follows: ...” The
new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (D)   All sections, subchapters, chapters or provisions desired to be
repealed must be specifically repealed by division, section or chapter number,
as the case may be.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (G.S. § 160A-11) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1985)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public
   records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see G.S. §§ 139-1 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, each violation of this code or any other
town ordinance shall constitute a misdemeanor, except as otherwise provided by
statute, and violations of such provisions of any town ordinance shall be
punished by fine or imprisonment as provided by law. Each day any violation of
any town ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense, except
as may be specifically provided.
CHAPTER 11: TOWN STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Incorporation and corporate powers
§ 11.01 INCORPORATION AND CORPORATE POWERS.
   The inhabitants of the town are a body corporate and politic under the name
“Town of Stokesdale”. The town has all the powers, duties, rights, privileges
and immunities conferred and imposed on cities by the general laws of North
Carolina.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   ETHICS CODE
      
31.   CIVIL EMERGENCIES
CHAPTER 30: ETHICS CODE
Section
   
30.01   General principles
   
30.02   Purpose
   
30.03   Obeying applicable laws regarding official actions
   
30.04   Upholding the integrity and independence of office
   
30.05   Avoiding impropriety in exercise of official duties
   
30.06   Faithfully performing duties of office
   
30.07   Conducting affairs in open, public manner; complying with open meeting
and public record laws
§ 30.01 GENERAL PRINCIPLES.
   (A)   The stability and proper operation of democratic representative
government depends upon public confidence in the integrity of the government
and upon responsible exercise of the trust conferred by the people upon their
elected officials.
   (B)   Governmental decisions and policy must be made and implemented through
proper channels and processes of the governmental structure.
   (C)   Council members must be able to act in a manner that maintains their
integrity and independence, yet is responsive to the interests and needs of
those they represent.
   (D)   Council members must always remain aware that, at various times, they
play different roles:
      (1)   As advocates, who strive to advance the legitimate needs of their
citizens and residents;
      (2)   As legislators, who balance the public interest and private rights
in considering and enacting ordinances, orders and resolutions; and
      (3)   As decision-makers, who arrive at fair and impartial quasi-judicial
and administrative determinations.
   (E)   Council members must know how to distinguish among these roles, to
determine when each role is appropriate and to act accordingly.
   (F)   Council members must be aware of their obligation to conform their
behavior to standards of ethical conduct that warrant the trust of their
constituents. Each official must find, within his or her own conscience, the
touchstone by which to determine what conduct is appropriate.
(Ord. passed 12-30-2010)
§ 30.02 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to establish guidelines for ethical
standards of conduct for the Town Council and to help determine what conduct is
appropriate in particular cases. This chapter should not be considered a
substitute for the law or for a Council member’s best judgment.
   (B)   The Town Council directs all advisory councils and committees, which
currently serve, or which will serve, the Town Council, to respect and to abide
by these same general principles and code of ethics in the performance of their
lawful duties insomuch as they may be applicable to the performance thereof.
(Ord. passed 12-30-2010)
§ 30.03 OBEYING APPLICABLE LAWS REGARDING OFFICIAL ACTIONS.
   (A)   Council members should obey all laws that apply to their official
actions as members of the Council. Council members should be guided by the
spirit as well as the letter of the law in whatever they do.
   (B)   Council members should endeavor to keep themselves up to date, through
the County Attorney and other sources, on:
      (1)   The pertinent constitutional, statutory and other legal
requirements with which they must be familiar; and
      (2)   About new or ongoing legal and ethical issues that they may face in
the official positions.
   (C)   Council members shall comply with G.S. § 160A-87 and participate in
the periodic ethics education mandated by said statute.
(Ord. passed 12-30-2010)
§ 30.04 UPHOLDING THE INTEGRITY AND INDEPENDENCE OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Council members should act with integrity and independence from
improper influence as they exercise the functions of their office.
Characteristics and behaviors consistent with this are:
      (1)   Exhibiting trustworthiness;
      (2)   Adhering firmly to a code of sound values;
      (3)   Using the best independent judgment to pursue the common good;
      (4)   Showing respect to everyone;
      (5)   Remaining incorruptible, self-governing and not subject to improper
influence, while at the same time being able to consider the opinions and ideas
of others;
      (6)   Disclosing contacts and information about issues that they receive
outside of public meetings and refraining from seeking or receiving information
about quasi-judicial matters outside of the quasi-judicial proceedings
themselves;
      (7)   Treating other Council members and the public with respect and
honoring the opinions of others even when disagreement arises;
      (8)   Not reaching conclusions on issues until all sides have been heard;
      (9)   Showing respect for the office and not behaving in ways that
reflect poorly upon it;
      (10)   Recognizing each Council member is a part of a larger group and
acting accordingly; and
      (11)   Recognizing that individual Council members are not generally
allowed to act on behalf of the Council, but may only do so if the Council
specifically authorizes it, and that the Council must take official action as a
body.
   (B)   Council members should feel free to assert policy positions and
opinions without fear of reprisal from fellow Council members or citizens. To
assert that a Council member is behaving unethically due to the fact that one
has a disagreement with that Council member based on a question of policy (and
not on the Council member’s unethical behavior) is unfair, dishonest,
irresponsible and is itself unethical.
(Ord. passed 12-30-2010)
§ 30.05 AVOIDING IMPROPRIETY IN EXERCISE OF OFFICIAL DUTIES.
   (A)   Council members should avoid impropriety in the exercise of their
official duties. Their official actions should be above reproach. Consideration
of whether a Council member’s actions were improper should be considered in
light of the circumstances and information available to the Council member at
the time of the Council member’s action.
   (B)   If a Council member concludes that his or her actions, while legal and
ethical, may be misunderstood, he or she may seek the advice of the Council’s
attorney. He or she may also state on the record the facts of the situation and
the steps taken to resolve it.
   (C)   In the instance of alleged impropriety by any Council member, the
Council member shall be afforded the opportunity to explain the situation and
all relevant facts.
(Ord. passed 12-30-2010)
§ 30.06 FAITHFULLY PERFORMING DUTIES OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Council members should faithfully perform the duties of their offices.
They should act as the especially responsible citizens whom others can trust
and respect. They should set a good example for others in the community,
keeping in mind that trust and respect must continually be earned.
   (B)   Council members should faithfully attend and prepare for meetings.
They should carefully analyze all credible information submitted to them,
mindful of the need not to engage in communications outside the meeting in
quasi-judicial maters. Council members should require full accountability from
those over whom the Council has authority.
   (C)   Council members should be willing to bear their fair share of the
Council’s workload. To the extent appropriate, they should be willing to put
the Council’s interests ahead of their own.
(Ord. passed 12-30-2010)
§ 30.07 CONDUCTING AFFAIRS IN OPEN, PUBLIC MANNER; COMPLYING WITH OPEN MEETING
AND PUBLIC RECORD LAWS.
   (A)   Council members should conduct the affairs of the Council in an open
and public manner. Compliance with all applicable laws governing open meetings
and public records is an understood requisite.
   (B)   Council members should make clear that an environment of transparency
and candor is to be maintained at all times in the county government. They
should take deliberate steps to prohibit unjustified delay in fulfilling public
records requests and to ensure that any closed sessions held by the Council are
lawfully conducted.
(Ord. passed 12-30-2010)
CHAPTER 31: CIVIL EMERGENCIES
Section
   
31.01   Restrictions authorized
   
31.02   Proclamation imposing prohibitions and restrictions
   
31.03   Evacuation
   
31.04   Curfew
   
31.05   Possession, consumption or transfer of alcoholic beverages restricted
   
31.06   Possession, transportation and transfer of dangerous weapons and
substances restricted
   
31.07   Restriction on access to areas
   
31.08   Activities and the like prohibited or restricted
   
31.09   Removal of prohibitions and restrictions
   
31.10   Superseding and amending proclamations
   
31.11   Termination of proclamation
   
31.12   Exercise of powers in absence or disability of Mayor
   
31.13   Territorial applicability
 
   
31.99   Penalty
§ 31.01 RESTRICTIONS AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   A “state of emergency” shall be deemed to exist whenever during times
of public crisis, disaster, rioting, catastrophe or similar public emergency,
for any reason, public safety authorities are unable to maintain public order
or afford adequate protection for lives, safety or property, or whenever the
occurrence of any such condition is imminent.
   (B)   In the event of an existing or threatened state of emergency
endangering the lives, safety, health and welfare of the people within the town
or any part thereof or threatening damages to or destruction of property, the
Mayor of the town is hereby authorized and empowered under G.S. §§ 14-288.14
and 166A-8 to issue a public proclamation declaring to all persons the
existence of such a state of emergency and, in order to more effectively
protect the lives and property of people within the town, to place in effect
any or all of the restrictions hereinafter authorized. The Mayor shall fully
utilize all available emergency service and management agencies and
coordinators.
   (C)   The Mayor is hereby authorized and empowered to limit, by the
proclamation, the application of all or any part of such restrictions to any
area specifically designated or described within the town and to specific hours
of the day or night and to exempt from all or any part of such restrictions,
while acting in the line of and within the scope of their respective duties,
law enforcement officers, firefighters and other public employees, rescue squad
members, doctors, nurses, employees of hospitals and other medical facilities;
on-duty military personnel, whether state or federal; on-duty employees of
public utilities, public transportation companies and newspaper, magazine,
radio broadcasting and television broadcasting corporations operated for
profit; and such other classes of persons as may be essential to the
preservation of public order and immediately necessary to serve the safety,
health and welfare needs of people within the town.
(Ord. 76, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 31.02 PROCLAMATION IMPOSING PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The Mayor of the town, by proclamation, may impose the prohibitions
and restrictions specified in §§
31.03 through
31.08 of this chapter in the manner described in those sections. The Mayor may
impose as many of those specified prohibitions and restrictions as he or she
finds necessary because of an emergency to maintain an acceptable level of
public order and services and to protect lives, safety and property. The Mayor
shall recite his or her findings in the proclamation.
   (B)   The proclamation shall be in writing. The Mayor shall take reasonable
steps to give notice of the terms of the proclamation to those affected by it
and shall post a copy of it in the Town Hall. The Mayor shall send reports of
the substance of the proclamation to the mass communications media which serve
the affected area. The Mayor shall retain a text of the proclamation and
furnish upon request certified copies of it.
(Ord. passed 5-21-2013)
§ 31.03 EVACUATION.
   The Mayor may direct and compel the voluntary or mandatory evacuation of all
or part of the population of the town; to prescribe routes, modes of
transportation and destination in connection with evacuation; and to control
ingress and egress of a disaster area, the movement of persons within the area
and the occupancy of premises therein. Details of the evacuation may be set
forth or amended in a subsequent proclamation which shall be well publicized.
(Ord. passed 5-21-2013)
§ 31.04 CURFEW.
   (A)   The proclamation may impose a curfew prohibiting in certain areas and
during certain periods the appearance in public of anyone who is not a member
of an exempted class. The proclamation shall specify the geographical area or
areas and the period during each 24-hour day to which the curfew applies. The
Mayor may exempt from some or all of the curfew restrictions classes of people
whose exemption the Mayor finds necessary for the preservation of the public
health, safety and welfare. The proclamation shall state the exempted classes
and the restrictions from which each is exempted.
   (B)   Unless otherwise specified in the proclamation, the curfew shall apply
during the specified period each day until the Mayor, by proclamation, removes
the curfew.
(Ord. passed 5-21-2013)
§ 31.05 POSSESSION, CONSUMPTION OR TRANSFER OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES RESTRICTED.
   The proclamation may prohibit the possession or consumption of any alcoholic
beverage, including beer, wine and spirituous liquor, other than on one’s own
premises and may prohibit the transfer, transportation, sale or purchase of any
alcoholic beverage within the area of the town described in the proclamation.
The prohibition, if imposed, may apply to transfer of alcoholic beverages by
employees of alcoholic beverage control stores, as well as by anyone else
within the geographical area described.
(Ord. passed 5-21-2013)
§ 31.06 POSSESSION, TRANSPORTATION AND TRANSFER OF DANGEROUS WEAPONS AND
SUBSTANCES RESTRICTED.
   (A)   The proclamation may prohibit the transportation or possession off
one’s own premises or the sale or purchase of any dangerous weapon or
substance. The Mayor may exempt from some or all of the restrictions classes of
people whose possession, transfer or transportation of certain dangerous
weapons or substances is necessary to the preservation of the public’s health,
safety or welfare. The proclamation shall state the exempted classes and the
restrictions from which each is exempted.
   (B)   DANGEROUS WEAPON OR SUBSTANCE means:
      (1)   Any item described as a “dangerous weapon or substance”, as defined
in G.S. § 14-288.1;
      (2)   Any other instrument or substance that is capable of being used to
inflict serious bodily injury or destruction of property when the circumstances
indicate that there is some probability that such instrument or substance will
be so used;
      (3)   Any part or ingredient in any instrument or substance included
above when the circumstances indicate a probability that such a part or
ingredient will be so used; and
      (4)   Except that this section does not authorize prohibitions or
restrictions on lawfully possessed firearms or ammunition. As used in this
section, “firearm” has the same meaning as it does under G.S. § 14-409.39(2).
   (C)   If imposed, the restrictions shall apply throughout the jurisdiction
of the town or such part thereof as designated in the proclamation.
   (D)   A violation of this section shall be punishable as provided in G.S. §§
14-269 et seq.
(Ord. passed 5-21-2013)
§ 31.07 RESTRICTION ON ACCESS TO AREAS.
   (A)   The proclamation may prohibit obtaining access or attempting to obtain
access to any area designated in the manner described in this section in
violation of any order, clearly posted notice or barricade indicating that
access is denied or restricted.
   (B)   Areas to which access is denied or restricted shall be designated by
the Sheriff and his or her subordinates or other law enforcement officer when
directed in the proclamation to do so by the Mayor. When acting under this
authority, the Sheriff and his or her subordinates may restrict or deny access
to any area, street, highway or location within the town if that restriction or
denial of access or use is reasonably necessary to promote efforts being made
to overcome the emergency or to prevent further aggravation of the emergency.
(Ord. passed 5-21-2013)
§ 31.08 ACTIVITIES AND THE LIKE PROHIBITED OR RESTRICTED.
   The following activities or conditions may be prohibited or restricted:
   (A)   Movements of people in public places;
   (B)   The operation of offices, business establishments and other places to
or from which people may travel or at which they may congregate; and
   (C)   Other activities or conditions the control of which may be reasonably
necessary to maintain order and protect lives or property during the state of
emergency within the area designated in the proclamation.
(Ord. passed 5-21-2013)
§ 31.09 REMOVAL OF PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   The Mayor shall, by proclamation, terminate the entire declaration of
emergency or remove any of the prohibitions and restrictions when the emergency
no longer requires them or when directed to do so by the Town Council.
(Ord. passed 5-21-2013)
§ 31.10 SUPERSEDING AND AMENDING PROCLAMATIONS.
   The Mayor, in his or her discretion, may invoke the restrictions authorized
by this chapter in separate proclamations and may amend any proclamation by
means of a superseding proclamation in accordance with the procedures set forth
in §
31.02 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-21-2013)
§ 31.11 TERMINATION OF PROCLAMATION.
   Any proclamation issued under this chapter shall expire five days after its
last imposition unless sooner terminated in writing under the same procedures
set forth in §
31.02 of this chapter for proclamations.
(Ord. passed 5-21-2013)
§ 31.12 EXERCISE OF POWERS IN ABSENCE OR DISABILITY OF MAYOR.
   In case of the absence or disability of the Mayor, the Vice Mayor of the
Town Council or such other person as may be designated by the Town Council
shall have and exercise all of the powers herein given the Mayor.
(Ord. passed 5-21-2013)
§ 31.13 TERRITORIAL APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall apply within the corporate limits of the town.
(Ord. passed 5-21-2013)
§ 31.99 PENALTY.
   Except as provided in §
31.06 of this chapter, any person violating any prohibition or restriction
imposed by a proclamation authorized by this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable upon conviction by a fine not exceeding $500 and/or
imprisonment not exceeding 30 days, as provided by G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. passed 5-21-2013)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER SYSTEM
CHAPTER 50: WATER SYSTEM
Section
Water Distribution System
   
50.01   Authority
   
50.02   Purpose
   
50.03   Provision of service; application
   
50.04   Disapproval of application
   
50.05   Separate water connections, meters required
   
50.06   Ownership of connections
   
50.07   Meters and connections; maintenance
   
50.08   Connection of unapproved supply
   
50.09   Backflow prevention; facilities that require; approved assemblies;
installation
   
50.10   Discontinuance of service
   
50.11   Protection of system
   
50.12   Guarantee of quantity, quality or pressure
Public Water Supply
   
50.25   Authority
   
50.26   Jurisdiction
   
50.27   Purpose
   
50.28   Definitions
   
50.29   Construction and material requirements
   
50.30   Water connections
 
   
50.99   Penalty
**** WATER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM ****
§ 50.01 AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is adopted pursuant to the authority of G.S. § 160A-312 and
enforceable under authority of G.S. § 160A-175.
(Ord. 54, passed 6-17-2004)
§ 50.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to protect and regulate the operation of
the town’s water distribution system.
(Ord. 54, passed 6-17-2004)
§ 50.03 PROVISION OF SERVICE; APPLICATION.
   (A)   Application for connection. Every application for water service shall
list on forms provided by the town, the property owners, the street on which
the lot is located and the number of the house and/or building. When the size
of the service and the cost of the connection have been determined, the
applicant shall deposit the previously determined cost thereof and shall be
issued a permit for the desired connection. The town shall have no
responsibility for the design of a sprinkler or other fire protection system.
Application for a connection to serve such a system shall be made exactly as
outlined above; except that, the size of the connection desired shall be placed
upon the application.
   (B)   Installation of water laterals. The installation of three-fourths-inch
through two-inch water laterals shall be done by a licensed utility contractor.
The installation of all laterals or settings of the required meters shall be
done only after payment of appropriate fees and approval of an application for
service. A licensed utility contractor shall install water from the main to the
property line and shall be responsible for all excavations, laying of pipes,
backfilling and, if applicable, pavement replacement. The licensed contractor
shall install all connections to water system in accordance with American Water
Works Association (AWWA) standards. All installations from water main to meter
box if using a non- metallic material will be required to install a 12-gauge
(#12) tracer wire.
(Ord. 54, passed 6-17-2004)
§ 50.04 DISAPPROVAL OF APPLICATION.
   If, in the opinion of the town’s water distribution system operator, the
water connection applied for will be of such size or character as to put too
great a demand on any part of the system and disrupt the town’s ordinary
service, water distribution system operator shall disapprove the application
until such time as adequate means are provided to eliminate the unsatisfactory
condition.
(Ord. 54, passed 6-17-2004)
§ 50.05 SEPARATE WATER CONNECTIONS, METERS REQUIRED.
   Each building shall have a separate water meter and, where practicable,
shall have a separate water lateral. In the event that one lateral is used for
two buildings or used to serve two or more meters for the same building, an
approved separate cut-off shall be provided for each meter.
(Ord. 54, passed 6-17-2004)
§ 50.06 OWNERSHIP OF CONNECTIONS.
   All meters, boxes, pipes and other equipment furnished by the property owner
in a water connection shall become and remain the property of the town in
compliance with the town’s water system management plan. If, after an
installation is completed, the property owner requests that a meter or lateral
be changed in size and this request is approved by the water system operator,
the property owner shall pay for the change of lateral as though it were a new
connection.
(Ord. 54, passed 6-17-2004)
§ 50.07 METERS AND CONNECTIONS; MAINTENANCE.
   All meters and water connections from main water line to meter box shall be
installed at the property owner’s expense, but shall be maintained by the town.
All connections between meter box and user structure (residence or commercial
building) shall be made and maintained at the property owner’s expense. (See
Exhibit A diagram attached to the ordinance codified herein and incorporated by
reference.) Both the connection to main waterline and connection to residence
or building becomes part of the water distribution system when made. The
property owner will be responsible for maintaining the area around the meter in
good repair per generally accepted utilities standards used by town’s water
system operator. The meter box will be at ground level and not covered with
dirt, debris and the like. The meter reader shall be able to read the meter
without hindrance from brushes, trees, flowers, fences and the like. Failure to
abide by this rule could result in turning off the water until the repairs are
made.
(Ord. 54, passed 6-17-2004) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.08 CONNECTION OF UNAPPROVED SUPPLY.
   No part of the town’s water system shall be connected to any unapproved
supply. If, upon any premises, both town water and water from any other source
are used, the piping shall be completely separate. Pipes carrying water from a
source other than the town’s supply shall use a pre-approved designation or
marking system. Any water source other than the town’s will be separated by an
above- ground cross-connected and anti-siphonage device, pressure reduction
principle assembly with an antifreeze protection device.
(Ord. 54, passed 6-17-2004) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.09 BACKFLOW PREVENTION; FACILITIES THAT REQUIRE; APPROVED ASSEMBLIES;
INSTALLATION.
   (A)   All water lines connected to the water distribution system owned and
operated by the town for use other than domestic type (except for requirements
of division (B) below) shall be equipped with an approval backflow and a back-
siphonage control device, together with an above-ground and covered hot-box or
other approved antifreeze cover device. Upon notice from the town’s water
system operator, the customer will be required to have the cross-connection
backflow and back siphonage control device tested at least annually by a
certified tester. The customer will submit satisfactory test results to the
town’s water system operator within 30 days of notice.
   (B)   All commercial (non-residential) facilities (buildings) will be
required to install a pressure reduction principle assembly backflow preventer,
the quality of which will be Wilkins, model number 975XLU or its equivalent in
quality and performance. All commercial buildings will be required to install a
pressure reduction principle assembly within a 90-day period after being
notified by town of the requirement to do so. Residential buildings will not be
required to install a backflow prevention assembly, unless there exists a
swimming pool, an in-ground irrigation system or a business use located within
the residence which could endanger the water distribution system with
contamination; by way of example, but not limitation, such use may be a beauty
or nail salon or any chemical mixing activities.
   (C)   Backflow prevention assemblies shall meet American Society or Sanitary
Engineering (ASSE) standard and carry ASSE seal or be on the University of
California approval list.
   (D)   Backflow prevention assemblies must be located in a place where it is
readily accessible for regular testing, maintenance and inspection. Bypass
lines parallel to a backflow prevention assembly shall have an approved
backflow prevention assembly installed that is equal to that on the main line:
      (1)   RPZ:
         (a)   Above-ground installation required;
         (b)   Below-ground vault shall have positive drainage with adequate
gravity drainage to atmosphere. This below-ground vault shall be protected if
located in an area where there is vehicular traffic present. The protection
mechanism, device or method must have the ability to withstand all the weight
exerted on the vault by such vehicular traffic;
         (c)   Twelve-inch minimum clearance from vault walls and floor; and
         (d)   Installation in accordance with manufacture’s recommendations.
      (2)   DCVA:
         (a)   Vertical or horizontal installation acceptable; and
         (b)   Above-ground installation required.
      (3)   See Appendix I diagrams (attached to the ordinance codified herein)
and incorporated by reference:
         (a)   Double check assembly reduced pressure device drawings;
         (b)   Sizes three-inch through eight-inch reduced pressure backflow
preventer above-ground installation; and
         (c)   Three-fourths-inch through two-inch reduced pressure backflow
preventer above-ground installation.
(Ord. 54, passed 6-17-2004)
§ 50.10 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   (A)   When any consumer fails to install the required backflow prevention
assembly or fails in the annual certification of said assembly, or defaults in
any required repairs to such assembly or becomes delinquent in the payment of a
regular monthly or quarterly services bill, there shall be mailed a written
notice to the effect that if the required backflow prevention assembly is not
installed, or if the backflow prevention assembly deficiency (as stated above)
is not corrected or the service bill due is not paid on or before the date
named in the notice, the water may be cut off. It may not be turned on again
until the backflow prevention assembly is installed or the annual inspection
and certification has been performed, and any suggested repairs or remedial
changes completed, or the bill due has been paid together with a delinquent fee
of $20 or $10 as provided below. The notice shall also indicate that the user
may request a hearing. The date named in such notice shall be 15 days from the
date payable, or correction of the backflow prevention deficiency.
   (B)   The customer, upon his or her request, has a right to a hearing to
appeal the discontinuance of water service at any time prior to proposed due
date shown on final notice. If the consumer is a tenant, and the bill is not
paid before the day following the date named in such notice, then the account
is considered to be delinquent and a $20 penalty may be imposed. If the
consumer is the owner of the property, the bill for the next billing period
shall show that the bill for the previous period has not been paid. If the
second bill is not paid, including the amount in arrears, a 15-day notice shall
be mailed and the $20 penalty imposed as for a tenant. One week after the $20
penalty is imposed, an additional penalty of $10 will be imposed. The water may
be cut on if the bill is paid within seven days of the date of cut off,
together with a delinquent fee of $30.
   (C)   The water service to any occupied premises shall not be restored until
the backflow prevention assembly deficiency is corrected and/or all service
bill due together with all delinquent fees are paid.
   (D)   If a consumer pays a service bill with a check that is returned unpaid
for any reason, the consumer shall be informed of this occurrence and shall be
given written notice mailed to the address given in his or her application that
the water service may be terminated within seven days of the date on the
notice. A fee of $20 shall be added to the account for processing the returned
check. If the water is cut off, the delinquent fee for restoring water service
shall be $40. Any other delinquent fee that would have accrued due to the past
due date of the bill shall also be paid.
(Ord. 54, passed 6-17-2004)
§ 50.11 PROTECTION OF SYSTEM.
   (A)   No person or commercial enterprise shall contaminate any portion of
the town’s water supply whether the same is a tank or pipe.
   (B)   Inspectors, meter readers or authorized agents of the town, whose duty
it may be to enter upon private premises to examine meters, pipes or other
fixtures used in connection with the town’s water service shall have free
access at all reasonable hours to all parts of such premises for the purpose of
inspection, meter reading, examination of fixtures and observation of the
manner in which water is used. In case any inspector is refused admittance to
any premises for any such purpose or is hindered or prevented from making such
examination, the water shall be turned off and shall not be turned on again
until free access is given.
   (C)   No person, except a duly authorized contractor or agent of the town,
shall turn the stopcock installed in each meter box, nor shall any person
construct or have constructed any bypass around any meter, except as may be
authorized by the town or its duly authorized contractor or agent.
   (D)   The fact that water is cut on to any premises by an occupant thereof
without the knowledge of either the town, its duly authorized contractor or
agent or the owner shall not relieve such premises of liability for such
unauthorized use of water.
   (E)   Restaurants and food preparation businesses which discharge excessive
amounts of grease and food waste and are deemed to be in violation of the code
will be required to install an approved grease trap if one does not currently
exist.
   (F)   If a user’s service is found to be defective and taking on inflow or
if an illegal connection is discovered, then the town will require the user to
repair service to acceptable condition. Users will be notified in writing and
given 30 days to make necessary repairs.
   (G)   All new plumbing constructed must provide a ground path back to the
town water distribution system. This can be established by either the use of a
metallic service line, or where PVC service lines are used, an insulated
grounding wire attached to the copper plumbing of the dwelling and connecting
to the water meter setter.
(Ord. 54, passed 6-17-2004) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.12 GUARANTEE OF QUANTITY, QUALITY OR PRESSURE.
   The town does not guarantee the quality, quantity or pressure of its water
supply. It is hereby made a portion of the terms on which the town furnished
water to consumers that the town shall in no case be liable to any consumer for
any defect in quality, quantity or pressure. The town shall not be liable to
any consumer for damages resulting from the complete or partial cutting off of
water; and no deduction shall be made from any water bill by reason of any such
defect or deficiency. In every case, where practicable, ample notice, by the
best means available, shall be given when the water is to be cut off from any
portion of the town. No town employee, contractor or agent shall take
responsibility for telling a property owner or occupant how best to care for
his or her boiler, water heater or other equipment which is affected by the
discontinuance, either temporary or permanent. The owner or occupant shall be
entirely responsible for his or her equipment and shall hold the town in no way
responsible for damage thereof.
(Ord. 54, passed 6-17-2004) Penalty, see §
50.99
**** PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY ****
§ 50.25 AUTHORITY.
   The town hereby exercises its authority to enact this subchapter, pursuant
to G.S. §§ 160A-174, 160A-177 and 130A-317.
(Ord. 60, passed 6-16-2005)
§ 50.26 JURISDICTION.
   On or after 6-16-2005, this subchapter shall govern the installation and
construction of public water systems within town served by deep wells or
community wells, which may become connected to the town’s approved municipal
water system, when such town’s municipal water system reaches or becomes
available to an area not already served by the town’s water system. This
subchapter is intended to provide for and govern the uniformity of water system
piping materials and sizing by private developers in order to have
compatibility and uniformity with town’s municipal water supply system when
such subdivision private developments are connected to the town’s municipal
water supply system.
(Ord. 60, passed 6-16-2005)
§ 50.27 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter, expressed herein, is to set standards and
specifications for the construction and installation of public water supply
infrastructure systems; thus, enabling the Town Council to ensure that all
public water supplies provide adequate criteria for the design and construction
of new public water systems and for the modifications of existing public water
systems; to ensure that the water pipe materials and sizing used for water
distribution lines shall comply with this subchapter and previously adopted
waterline specifications (incorporated herein by reference as if fully set
forth herein); to enable connection of private public water systems to the
town’s municipal water supply when such municipal public water becomes
available to the area now served by a non-approved municipal water system; to
ensure piping materials and sizing of service lines installed by private
developers are uniform and compatible with the town’s water supply distribution
system; to protect the health, safety and public water of the citizens of town.
(Ord. 60, passed 6-16-2005)
§ 50.28 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   CONNECTION. The part of the water service line which runs from the water
supply main to the property line, including all appurtenances to make the
service complete and ready for use.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. The induction of water into the distribution system of a
public water supply through any means, except from an approved source of
supply, or to make a physical connection between an approved source of supply
and an unapproved source of supply.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, corporation, association, partnership,
institution, club, business, industrial establishment, organization or company.
   PLACE OF BUSINESS. Any store, warehouse, manufacturing establishment, place
of amusement or recreation, service station, office building or other place
where people work.
   PLACE OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLY. Any fairground, auditorium, stadium, church,
campground, theater or other place where people congregate for educational,
recreational or religious purposes.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY. Under G.S. Ch. 130A, Art. 10, and under the regulations
of the Division of Health Services, State Department of Human Resources, any
water system which serves at least 15 service connections used by year-round
residents or which regularly serves at least 25 year-round residents. Water
supplies on adjacent properties, if owned or operated by the same persons,
shall be deemed to be one WATER SUPPLY unless determined otherwise by the Town
Council.
   RESIDENCE. Any private home, tenant house, hotel, motel, summer camp, labor
work camp, mobile home, apartment, institution or other place where people
reside for any period of time.
   SERVICE DISTRICT. The area which a municipal provider (Town of Stokesdale)
has designated for the existing municipal water system and for the future
expansion of its water system.
   TOWN COUNCIL. The Town of Stokesdale Town Council or authorized
representative.
   WATER DISTRIBUTION MAIN or WATER MAIN. Pipes and waterlines for system
distribution which transport water from one point to another in a community
water system, excepting service lines to residences, places of business or
places of public assembly.
   WATER SYSTEM. The well or wells, distribution pipes, service lines, valves,
storage tank, pump or any other attachments to a water supply and distribution
installation.
(Ord. 60, passed 6-16-2005)
§ 50.29 CONSTRUCTION AND MATERIAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The water distribution specifications to be used in all new subdivision
developments after the adoption of this subchapter shall be the same town
waterline specifications as provided for in the municipal service district as
adopted and as may be amended from time to time thereafter, which are hereby
incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein.
(Ord. 60, passed 6-16-2005; Ord. passed 10-18-2017)
§ 50.30 WATER CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Water lines or mains, connections and waterline supply and
distribution equipment used in new subdivision developments within the town
after the effective date of this subchapter shall be constructed and installed
in accordance with “North Carolina State Regulations and Town Waterline
Specifications”, as adopted 5-12-2022, as may be amended from time to time
thereafter.
   (B)   When and wherever developers install water lines or contract for such
construction and installation in new subdivisions after the adoption of this
subchapter’s requirements, such developers shall follow town waterline
specifications for water line installation, construction and materials, as
adopted by the town on 5-12-2022, and as thereafter amended from time to time.
The intent of this subchapter requirement is to enable and assure that the
installation by developers of water lines in new subdivisions shall meet the
town’s specifications for public water lines to enable such subdivisions to
connect to the town’s municipal water supply system when such municipal water
system line becomes available to the new subdivisions or newly developed areas.
The installation of water line piping using the town’s adopted specifications
will enable the supply of water to such subdivisions to be from a public water
supply from the town’s water distribution system instead of from a deep well or
community well supply system when such connection is requested or mandated by
public health necessity needs and requirements.
   (C)   To ensure uniformity and compatibility with the town’s public water
supply system, the developer of new subdivisions, after the adoption and
effective date of this subchapter, shall notify the town of the developer’s
intended use for water supply by deep well or community well supply system
before installation of such water line supply system, in order that the town
can provide adequate inspection services of the proposed plans for installation
of such water supply system by the Town Engineer and obtain approval of the
Town Engineer for such plans for public waterline supply system construction
and materials to be used before installation and construction thereof. A final
inspection of the developer’s installation, construction and materials used
will be requested by developer and approved by Town Engineer before a
certificate of occupancy is issued by town.
(Ord. 60, passed 6-16-2005; Ord. passed 6-9-2017) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   A violation of §§
50.01 through
50.12 of this chapter shall be subject the offender to the civil penalties
fixed by this division (B) and the civil remedies provided by G.S. § 160A-175.
Any properly designated town official is authorized to take legal action in the
nature of a civil suit for the collection of a debt when the civil penalty,
including the delinquent civil penalty, has not been paid.
      (2)   The civil penalties imposed by this division (B) and the proceeds
therefrom, as collected by payment, civil action or otherwise, shall belong to
the town and shall be paid into the Water Enterprise Fund of the town under
such conditions as prescribed by the annual budget.
      (3)   A violation of §§
50.01 through
50.12 of this chapter may be enforced by the issuance of a civil penalty of
$100.
      (4)   An additional late fee civil penalty in the amount of $10 may be
assessed if the initial civil penalty is not paid or appealed to the Town
Council within 30 days from the issuance of said civil penalty.
      (5)   Notwithstanding division (B)(2) above, an additional late fee civil
penalty in the amount of $50 may be assessed if the initial civil penalty may
be appealed to the Town Council within ten days of receiving the notice of
citation.
      (6)   Non-payment of the assessed penalties/fines within 30 days will be
grounds for the operator of water system to forward the file on to Town Clerk
for collection. Attorneys’ fees and costs in association with the violation
will be charged to the person found to be in violation of §§
50.01 through
50.12 of this chapter, if the Town Attorney is involved in civil penalty
collection efforts.
   (C)   (1)   (a)   Misdemeanor. Any person violating any provision of §§
50.25 through
50.30 of this chapter shall be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor punishable by a
fine not to exceed $500 or imprisonment not to exceed 30 days, as provided by
G.S. § 160A-175.
         (b)   Injunction and order of abatement; other equitable relief. The
provisions of §§
50.25 through
50.30 of this chapter may be enforced by injunction and order of abatement
under G.S. § 160A-175, commanding the violator to correct the unlawful
condition complained of within a designated period of time, or cease the
unlawful use of the property. If the violator fails or refuses to comply with
an injunction or order of abatement within the time allowed by the court, he or
she may be cited for contempt and the town may execute the order of abatement.
If the town executes the order, it shall have a lien on the property, in the
nature of a mechanic’s or materialman’s lien, for the cost of executing the
order. Sections 50.25 through 50.30 of this chapter may also be enforced by any
other appropriate equitable remedy issuing from a court of competent
jurisdiction under G.S. § 160A-175.
         (c)   Civil penalties. In lieu of or in addition to the other
penalties outlined in this division (C), any person violating §§
50.25 through
50.30 of this chapter may be subject to a civil penalty, in the discretion of
the town, not to exceed $500 per violation, under G.S. § 160A-175. Said penalty
may be recovered by the town in a civil action in the nature of a debt if the
offender does not pay the penalty within 30 days after notification of
violation an assessment of the penalty. The violator may contest said penalty
in small claims court. Each day of a continuing violation shall constitute a
separate violation.
         (d)   State administrative penalties. The state may enforce a
comprehensive set of administrative penalties which owners or contractors
should be aware of, contained in the North Carolina Administrative Code Title
10, Chapter 10, Subchapter 100, Water Supplies, specifically §§ .2401 through
.2413.
      (2)   Where any penalties provided by these regulations are invoked,
assesses or imposed or should any action by the town pertaining to the
enforcement of these regulations adversely affect any party, the party may
appeal to the Town Council for an appeal hearing. No such hearing shall be held
unless a written petition therefor shall be filed in the office of the Town
Council within ten working days of the decision which the petitioner is
appealing. The written petition requesting the hearing must set out the
grievances of the petitioner. Within 45 days of receipt of said petition, a
hearing shall be held before the Town Council. After such hearing, the Town
Council may either affirm, modify or reverse the decision of the town
representative or agent.
(Ord. 54, passed 6-17-2004; Ord. 60, passed 6-16-2005)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC AND PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC AND PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
      
II.   Parking restrictions
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle on a street or highway at a speed
greater than is reasonable under the conditions then existing.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided below, the speed limit on a street or
highway inside the corporate limits is 35 mph.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle in excess of the speed limit
established herein.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle in excess of the designated
school zone speed limit in any segment of street designated as a “school zone”
below, during a period from 30 minutes before to 30 minutes after school begins
and ends, on school days only.
Street Location/Provision Speed Limit (mph) Ord. No. Date Passed
Street             Location/Provision  Speed Limit (mph) Ord. No.   Date Passed
                   Between Angel-
                   Pardue Road (SR
Adano Road (SR     2102) and a point   25                O-2023- 01
2199)              0.243 mile south
                   and east of SR 5045
                   (Barbelo Drive)
Angel-Pardue Road  Entire length       25                O-2022- 08
(SR 2102)
Angels Glen Drive  In Angels Glen      25                94
(SR 5043)          Subdivision
Angels Glen Court  In Angels Glen      25                95
(SR 5044)          Subdivision
                   Between Haw River
Apple Grove (SR    Road (SR 2028) and  25                O-2021- 01
4611)              the end of state
                   maintenance
                   Between a point
Athens Drive (SR   0.03 mile southwest
2101)              of SR 5007 and SR   25                O-2023- 03
                   2102 (Angel-Pardue
                   Road)
Barbelo Drive (SR  In Angels Glen      25                96
5045)              Subdivision
                   Between SR 4610
                   (Zinfindel Drive)
Barbera Drive (SR  and a point 0.047   25                84
4612)              mile southwest of
                   SR 4613 (Riesling
                   Drive)
Bartonshite Drive  Entire street       25                56
(SR 4831)
                   Between SR 4639
                   (Perlette Court)
Calmeria Court (SR and a point 0.158   25                88
4640)              mile southwest of
                   SR 4639 (Perlette
                   Court)
                   Between Apple Grove
Carignan Court (SR Road (SR 4611) and  25                O-2021- 01
4661)              the end of state
                   maintenance
                   From Haw River Road
Charles Place      (SR 2028) southward
Drive (SR 4628/    to a point 0.07     25                77
4482)              mile south of
                   Sangiovese Drive
                   (SR 4629)
                   Between Haw River
Charles Place      Road (SR 2028) and  25                O-2021- 01
Drive (SR 4628)    south to the end of
                   state maintenance
                   From a point 0.14
                   mile south of
Chestershire Road  Perthsire Drive (SR 25                68
(SR 4886)          4887) northward to
                   Haw River Road (SR
                   2028)
Curraghmore Drive  In Angels Glen      25                91
(SR 5040)          Subdivision
Curraghmore Drive  In Angels Glen      25                92
(SR 5041)          Subdivision
Curraghmore Drive  In Angels Glen      25                90
West (SR 5039)     Subdivision
Daltonshire Drive  Entire street       25                56
(SR 4825)
                   From Haw River Road
                   (SR 2028) southward
Haw Meadows Drive  to a point 0.13     25                75
South (SR 4616)    mile south of Apple
                   Grove Road (SR
                   4611)
Haw Meadows Drive  Entire street       30                47
(SR 4423)
Haw River Road (SR From NC 68 eastward
2028)              to a point 1.10     40                66
                   miles east of NC 68
Holly Glen Drive   Entire street       30                48
(SR 4848)
Keating Drive (SR  Entire street       25                56
4826)
                   Between Apple Grove
Malbec Court (SR   Road (SR 4611) and  25                O-2021- 01
4662)              the end of state
                   maintenance
                   Between SR 4891
Meadow Springs     (Springdale Meadow
Drive (SR 5035)    Drive) and SR 5037  25                97
                   (Spring Birch
                   Terrace)
Meadow Springs     In Springdale       25                100
Place (SR 5036)    Subdivision
Messenger Court    In Angels Glen      25                93
(SR 5042)          Subdivision
                   From a point 0.10
                   mile east of SR
NC 65              2046 (Ellisboro     35                57
                   Road) eastward to
                   NC 68
                   From a point 0.27
                   mile north of U.S.
NC 65              Hwy 158 northward   50                5          2-19-200 4
                   to the southern
                   junction of NC 68 -
                   NC 65
                   From the corporate
                   limit at the
NC 65              Forsyth County line 55                10
                   eastward to a point
                   0.05 mile west of
                   SR 2044 (Self Road)
                   From the northern
                   junction of NC 65 -
NC 65              NC 68 northward to  55                11
                   the corporate limit
                   at the Rockingham
                   County line
                   From a point 0.27
                   mile north of U.S.
                   Hwy 158 northward
                   to the northern
NC 68              corporate limit at  50                52
                   the Rockingham
                   County line a point
                   0.23 mile north of
                   the northern
                   junction of NC 65
                   From the northern
                   junction of NC 65 -
                   NC 68 northward to
NC 68              the corporate       55                7
                   limits at the
                   Rockingham County
                   line
                   From the south
                   corporate limit at
                   SR 2029 (West
NC 68              Harrell Road)       50                40
                   northward to a
                   point 0.26 mile
                   south of SR 2056
                   (Clintwood Drive)
                   From the corporate
                   limits at SR 2029
                   (West Harrell Road)
NC 68              northward to a      55                8
                   point 0.26 mile
                   south of SR 2101
                   (Athens Road)
                   From the southern
                   junction of NC 68 -
NC 68 - NC 65      NC 65 northward to  55                6
                   the northern
                   junction of NC 68 -
                   NC 65
                   Between Apple Grove
Nebbiolo Court (SR Road (SR 4611) and  25                O-2021- 01
4663)              the end of state
                   maintenance
Oak Creek Drive    Entire street       30                48
(SR 4847)
Oak Meadows Drive  Entire street       30                47
(SR 4437)
                   Between SR 4628
                   (Charles Place
Perlette Court (SR Drive) and a point
4639)              0.278 mile          25                87
                   northeast of SR
                   4628 (Charles Place
                   Drive)
                   Between Perlette
Ribier Drive (SR   Court (SR 2639) and 25                O-2021- 01
4646)              the end of state
                   maintenance
                   Between SR 4612
                   (Barbera Drive) and
Riesling Drive (SR a point 0.248 mile  25                85
4613)              northeast of SR
                   4612 (Barbera
                   Drive)
                   Between SR 4616
Sangiovese Drive   (Haw Meadows Drive)
(SR 4629)          and SR 4628         25                86
                   (Charles Place
                   Drive)
Seagraves Drive    From NC 65 eastward
(SR 4889)          to SR 4890          25                64
                   (Springbirch Drive)
Spring Birch       In Springdale       25                99
Terrace (SR 5037)  Subdivision
                   From a point 0.08
                   mile south of SR
Springbirch Drive  4889 (Seagraves     25                64
(SR 489)           Drive) northward to
                   SR 4891 (Springdale
                   Meadow Drive)
                   Between NC 65 and a
Springdale Meadow  point 0.184 mile
Drive (SR 4891)    east of SR 5035     25                98
                   (Meadow Springs
                   Drive)
                   From SR 4891
Springdale Meadow  (Springdale Meadow
Court (SR 4892)    Drive) northward to 25                64
                   a point 0.17 mile
                   north of SR 4891
                   From U.S. Hwy 158
SR 2013 (Southard  northward to the    45                15
Road)              Rockingham County
                   line
                   From a point 0.62
SR 2023 (Happy     mile north of SR
Hill Road)         2033 (Warner Road)  45                18
                   northward to U.S.
                   Hwy 158
                   From a point 0.03
SR 2028 (Haw River mile north of SR    45                17
Road)              2033 (Warner Road)
                   northward to NC 65
                   From a point 0.17
                   mile west of SR
SR 2032 (Warner    2035 (Pearman       45                19
Road)              Quarry Road)
                   eastward to SR 2034
                   (Anthony Road)
                   From SR 2033
                   (Warner Road)
SR 2034 (Anthony   northward to a      45                20
Road)              point 1.08 miles
                   north of SR 2033
                   (Warner Road)
                   From NC 65
                   northward to the
SR 2045 (Oak Level northern corporate  45                21
Church Road)       limit at the
                   Rockingham County
                   line
                   From NC 65
                   northward to the
SR 2046 (Ellisboro northern corporate  45                22
Road)              limit at the
                   Rockingham County
                   line
                   From SR 2046
                   (Ellisboro Road)
SR 2047 (Gideon    northward to the
Grove Church Road) northern corporate  45                23
                   limit at the
                   Rockingham County
                   line
SR 2048 (Lester    From NC 65 eastward 45                24
Road)              to NC 68 - NC 65
                   School zone; from
                   NC 68 eastward to a
SR 2101 (Athens    point 0.37 mile     25                2
Drive)             east for NC 68
                   (Stokesdale
                   Elementary School)
                   From SR 2109
SR 2107 (Ellison   (Eversfield Road)   45                26
Road)              eastward to U.S.
                   Hwy 158
                   From the southern
                   corporate limit to
SR 2109            a point 1 mile
(Eversfield Road)  north of NC 150     45                27
                   (The Haw River)
                   northward to SR
                   2101 (Athens Road)
                   From a point 0.073
SR 5071 (Walter    mile south of U.S.
Combs Way)         Hwy 158 to a point  45                105
                   0.460 mile south of
                   U.S. Hwy 158
Tall Meadows Drive Entire street       30                47
(SR 4424)
                   Between Trebbiano
Trebbiano Court    Drive (SR 4614) and 25                O-2021- 01
(SR 4615)          the end of state
                   maintenance
                   From Anthony Road
Trebianno Drive    (SR 2034) to Haw    25                79
(SR 4614)          Meadows Drive (SR
                   4616)
                   From a point 0.63
                   mile east of SR
                   2034 (Anthony Road)
U.S. Hwy 158       eastward to a point 45                13
                   0.24 mile west of
                   SR 2037 (Croft
                   Drive)
                   From a point 0;09
                   mile east of SR
                   2102 (Angel-Pardue
U.S. Hwy 158       Road) to a point    50                41         10-10-20 19
                   0.079 mile west of
                   SR 5071 (Walter
                   Combs Way)
                   From the corporate
                   limit at the
                   Forsyth County line
U.S. Hwy 158       eastward to a point 55                12
                   0.63 mile east of
                   SR 2034 (Anthony
                   Road)
                   School zone; from
                   NC 68 eastward to a
                   point 0.04 mile
                   west of SR 2102
U.S. Hwy 158       (Angel- Pardue      25                72
                   Road), in effect
                   from 30 minutes
                   after school begins
                   and ends on school
                   days only
                   Between SR 4616
Zinfandel Drive    (Haw Meadows Drive) 25                83
(SR 4610)          and SR 4613
                   (Riesling Drive)
 
SCHEDULE II. PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
 
Street                 Location                                        Ord. No.
                       Shoulder area along the northern side,
                       beginning at a point 0.73 mile west of SR 2037
U.S. Hwy 158 (portion) (Croft Drive) and extending eastward along the  28
                       northern side of U.S. Hwy 158 to a point 0.66
                       mile west of SR 2037 (Croft Drive)
                       Shoulder area along the southern side of U.S.
                       Hwy 158, beginning at the point where U.S. Hwy
U.S. Hwy 158 (portion) 158 intersects with Newberry Street (SR 2053)   33
                       and extending southeast for a distance of 485
                       feet to the point of the intersection of U.S.
                       Hwy 158 with Shilling Street (SR 2054)
 
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   MODEL AIRCRAFT; UNMANNED AIRCRAFT
      
92.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Territorial application
   
90.03   Animal Control; duties
   
90.04   Interference; concealment
   
90.05   Owner’s, keeper’s duties
   
90.06   Bird sanctuaries
   
90.07   Animals running at large
   
90.08   Animals as public nuisances
   
90.09   Dangerous mammals; confinement and control
   
90.10   Dangerous and vicious animals
   
90.11   Animal fighting and baiting
   
90.12   Mistreating animals prohibited
   
90.13   Cruel treatment prohibited
   
90.14   Notice in case of injury
   
90.15   Destruction of unseizable animals
   
90.16   Animal traps
   
90.17   Security dogs
   
90.18   Hunting
   
90.19   Wild and exotic animals
   
90.20   Rabies control
   
90.21   Breeder, litter permits
Impoundment
   
90.35   Generally
   
90.36   Notice to owner
   
90.37   Redemption by owner generally
   
90.38   Adoption or euthanasia of unredeemed animal
   
90.39   Suspected rabid dogs or cats
   
90.40   Deposit
   
90.41   Rabies; unvaccinated animal
   
90.42   Wounded or diseased animals; humane euthanasia
   
90.43   Stray animals
High-Volume Breeders and Retailers
   
90.55   Permit required; application; issuance
   
90.56   Housing and shelter
   
90.57   Nutrition and hydration
   
90.58   Behavioral requirements
   
90.59   Grouping
   
90.60   Staff; hiring
   
90.61   Handling requirements
   
90.62   Health and veterinary care
   
90.63   Inspections; revocation of permit
   
90.64   Maintaining facilities in violation
 
   
90.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   ADEQUATE EXERCISE or EXERCISE. The opportunity for the animal to move
sufficiently to maintain normal muscle tone and mass for the age, species, size
and condition of the animal.
   ADEQUATE SHELTER.
      (1)   Provision of and access to shelter that is suitable for the
species, age, condition, size and type of each animal; provides adequate space
for each animal; is safe and protects each animal from injury, rain, sleet,
snow, hail, direct sunlight, and the adverse effects of heat or cold, physical
suffering and impairment of health; is properly cleaned; enables each animal to
be clean and dry, except when detrimental to the species; and for dogs and
cats, provides a solid surface, resting platform, pad, floormat or similar
devices that is large enough for the animal to lie on in a normal manner and
can be maintained in a sanitary manner.
      (2)   Under this chapter, SHELTER, whose wire grid or slat floors, which:
         (a)   Permit the animals’ feet to pass through the openings;
         (b)   Sag under the animal’s weight; or
         (c)   Otherwise do not protect the animals’ feet or toes from injury
are not adequate shelter.
   ADEQUATE SPACE.
      (1)   Sufficient space to allow each animal to:
         (a)   Easily stand, sit, lie, turnabout and make all other normal body
movements in a comfortable, normal position for the animal; and
         (b)   Interact safely with other animals in the enclosure.
      (2)   Birds must be provided with adequate perches appropriate to the
species which allow the bird to stand completely upright without having any
head contact with the ceiling of the cage and any tail contact with the floor
or grate of the cage. Cages must be sufficient size to allow the bird to fully
extend its wings.
      (3)   When freedom of movement would endanger the animal, temporarily and
appropriately restricting movement of the animal according to professional
accepted structures for the species is considered provision of ADEQUATE SPACE.
   AMBIENT TEMPERATURE. The temperature surrounding the animal.
   ANIMAL. Every living creature, domestic or non-domestic, but does not
include humans and does not include invertebrates.
   ANIMAL CONTROL. The Animal Control component of the agency, which includes
the Animal Control function for the jurisdiction, however denominated.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICERS. Any Animal Control officer employed by the
jurisdiction.
   ANIMAL CONTROL SUPERVISOR. The officer or employee placed in supervision of
the Animal Control officers and activities of the jurisdiction. In the county,
the ANIMAL CONTROL SUPERVISOR is the animal shelter director or designee.
   ANIMAL CRUELTY INVESTIGATORS. All persons appointed by the Board of County
Commissioners as county animal cruelty investigators under G.S. Ch. 19A.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. The animal shelter operated and maintained by the county for
the purpose of impounding animals under the authority of this chapter or the
General Statutes of the state for the care, confinement, return to owner,
adoption or humane euthanasia.
   AT LARGE. Refers to an animal that is not in an enclosure or is otherwise
not under physical control or is not under the control of the owner or other
responsible person by means of a leash, cord or chain.
   CAT. A domestic feline of either sex.
   DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal, whose behavior constitutes a risk
of injuring a human or domestic animal or which, by nature, is commonly
accepted as dangerous or non- domesticated. Such behavior includes, but is not
limited to, the animal’s biting or attacking or attempting to bite or attack
any person or other domestic animal. The following criteria will be used in
identifying an animal that is attacking or attempting to attack:
      (1)   Any animal which, when unprovoked, chases or approaches a person
upon the streets, sidewalks or any public or private property in a menacing
fashion or apparent attitude of attack;
      (2)   Any animal with a known propensity, tendency or disposition to
attack unprovoked, to cause injury or to otherwise threaten the safety of human
beings or domestic animals;
      (3)   Any animal owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose
of fighting or any animal trained for fighting; or
      (4)   An animal shall not be deemed DANGEROUS solely because it bites,
attacks or menaces:
         (a)   Anyone assaulting the owner or trespassing upon the property of
the owner;
         (b)   Any person or other animal that has tormented or abused it; or
         (c)   While protecting or defending its young.
   DEPARTMENT. The Guildford County Animal Shelter.
   DOG. A domestic canine of either sex.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any of various animals such as horses, sheep, cattle,
goats, hogs, poultry and the like, domesticated by humans so as to live and
breed in a tame condition.
   EXOTIC OR WILD ANIMAL. An animal that would ordinarily be confined to a zoo;
one that would ordinarily be found in the wilderness of this or any other
country; one that is a species of animal not indigenous to the United States or
to North America; or one that otherwise is likely to cause a reasonable person
to be fearful of significant destruction of property or of bodily harm, and the
latter includes, but is not limited to, monkeys, raccoons, squirrels, venomous
reptiles and other such animals. Such animals are further defined as being
those mammals or non-venomous reptiles weighing over 20 pounds at maturity,
which are known at law as free nature. EXOTIC OR WILD ANIMALS specifically do
not include animals of a species customarily used in the state as ordinary
household pets, animals of a species customarily used in the state as domestic
farm animals, fish confined in an aquarium other than piranha, birds or
insects.
   EXPOSED TO RABIES. Any animal or human bitten by or exposed to any animal
known or suspected to have been infected with rabies.
   HARBORING AN ANIMAL. An animal shall be deemed to be HARBORED if it is fed
or sheltered seven days or more, unless the animal is being boarded for a fee.
   HARSH WEATHER CONDITIONS. Conditions of extreme temperature and/or
perception, and including exposure to sunlight, which may cause a risk of harm
to an animal subjected to prolonged exposure without receiving shelter.
   HIGH-VOLUME DOG BREEDER. Any breeder who, during any calendar year maintains
more than seven or more intact female dogs. A veterinarian who provides
whelping services within a veterinarian-client-patient relationship, and has no
ownership interest in the bitch, is not included in this definition.
   HIGH-VOLUME DOG RETAILER. Any person who sells, resells or transfers
ownership of more than 50 dogs during any calendar year, including sale, resale
and transfer of dogs to pet stores, breeders, kennels and dealers, and sale,
resale and transfer that occur via the Internet.
   IMPOUNDED. Any animal which is received into custody by any employee of
Animal Control.
   INCORPORATED AREA. On property within the City of High Point, within the
City of Greensboro, or within the Town of Jamestown. This term shall also apply
to area within the corporate limits of any town or municipality in the county
if the governing body of such town or municipality adopts a resolution
indicating that it is to be treated as an INCORPORATED AREA under this chapter.
   INHERENTLY DANGEROUS MAMMAL. Any live member of the Canidae, Felidae or
Ursidae families, including hybrids thereof, which, due to their inherent
nature, may be considered dangerous to humans and which include:
      (1)   Canidae, including any member of the dog (canid) family not
customarily domesticated by humans, or any hybrids thereof, including wolf
hybrids which are a cross between a wolf and a domestic dog, but not including
domestic dogs (Canis Familiaris);
      (2)   Felidae, including any member of the cat family weighing over 15
pounds not customarily domesticated by humans, or any hybrids thereof, but not
including domestic cats (Felis catus); and
      (3)   Ursidae, including any member of the bear family, or any hybrids
thereof.
   KEEPER. A person having custody of an animal or who keeps or harbors an
animal or who knowingly permits an animal to remain on or about any premises
occupied or controlled by such person.
   MANAGER. The manager of the jurisdiction or his or her designee.
   NEUTERED MALE. Any male dog or cat which has been rendered sterile by a
surgical procedure.
   OUTSIDE ENCLOSURE. A pen large enough to provide each dog less than 25
pounds with a kennel of at least three feet by ten feet in size, and each dog
25 pounds or greater with a kennel of at least five feet by ten feet in size.
Animal Control services reserves the right to determine if a space is
considered suitable for the number and size of dogs housed in an OUTDOOR
ENCLOSURE.
   OWNER. Any person, group of persons, firm, partnership, corporation,
organization, association owning, keeping or any person having charge of,
sheltering, feeding, harboring or taking care of for seven or more consecutive
days unless the animal is being boarded for a fee. The OWNER is responsible for
the care, actions and behavior of his or her animals.
   PROPERLY CLEANED. Carcasses, debris, food waste, excrement and standing
water or liquid wastes are removed from the shelter or enclosure with
sufficient frequency to minimize the animal’s contact with the above-mentioned
contaminants and keep the shelter or enclosure in a sanitary condition
reasonably free of disease-causing agents and odors offensive to the public;
and the shelter or enclosure is cleaned so as to prevent the animals confined
therein from being directly or indirectly sprayed with any stream of water, or
directly or indirectly exposed to hazardous chemicals or disinfectants.
   PROPERLY LIGHTED. When referring to a facility, sufficient illumination to
permit routine inspections, maintenance, cleaning and housekeeping of the
facility, and observation of the animals; to provide regular diurnal lighting
cycles of either natural or artificial light, uniformly diffused throughout the
facility; and to promote the well-being of the animals. When referring to a
private residential dwelling and its surrounding grounds, PROPERLY LIGHTED
means sufficient illumination to permit routine maintenance and cleaning
therefor, and observation of companion animals; and to provide regular diurnal
lighting cycles of either natural or artificial light to promote the well-being
of the animals.
   PUBLIC HEALTH DIRECTOR. The Director of the county’s Department of Public
Health.
   RESTRAINT. An animal is under restraint if it is under sufficient physical
restraint such as a leash, cage, bridle or similar effective and humane device
which restrains and controls the animal, or within a vehicle, or adequately
contained by a fence on the premises, or an invisible fence or other secure
enclosure. If any animal is restrained by a chain, leash or similar RESTRAINT,
it shall be designed and placed to prevent choking or strangulation. Such chain
or RESTRAINT shall not be less than ten feet in length and either on a swivel
designed to prevent the animal from choking or strangling itself, or on a chain
run.
   SECURITY DOG. A dog on a premises specifically for the purpose of protecting
the premises from any intruder and for attacking a person coming in the
vicinity of the dog. A dog that is trained or conditioned to attack or
otherwise respond aggressively without command.
   SPAYED FEMALE. A female dog or cat which has been rendered sterile by a
surgical procedure.
   STRAY. Any domestic animal that is not under restraint or is not on the
property of its owner and is wandering at large, or is lost, or does not have
an owner, or does not bear evidence of the identification of any owner.
   SUSPECTED OF HAVING RABIES. An animal which has bitten a person or another
animal or a wild animal which has bitten a person or a domestic animal.
   TRESPASS. The victim of a bite or attack by an animal wrongfully invaded the
property of the owner. The cause of the individual to be on the property and
any other relevant circumstances shall be considered in order to determine
whether or not a TRESPASS has occurred. A child under the age of seven shall
not be deemed to be a TRESPASSER.
   TETHERING. Tying out or fastening a dog outdoors on a rope, chain or other
type of line for holding a dog. This shall not include tying out or fastening
of a dog outdoors on an attended leash.
   UNINCORPORATED AREA. Any area of Guildford County not within an
“incorporated area”, as defined above.
   VACCINATION. The administration of rabies vaccine as required by the law.
   VETERINARIAN CONSULTANT. An accredited licensed veterinarian who will
provide veterinarian services including the administering of drugs used for
euthanasia and observation and release (if appropriate) of rabies cases.
   WATCH DOG. A dog that barks and threatens to bite any intruder that has not
been specially trained or conditioned for that purpose.
(Ord. passed 10-21-2010)
§ 90.02 TERRITORIAL APPLICATION.
   This chapter shall be effective within the unincorporated areas of the
county and within all towns which have a standing resolution or ordinance
adopting county ordinances. This chapter shall be effective within the City of
High Point and the City of Greensboro upon passage by the respective city
councils of a resolution adopting this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-21-2010)
§ 90.03 ANIMAL CONTROL; DUTIES.
   Animal Control shall be charged with the responsibility of:
   (A)   Enforcing all laws of the state and all ordinances of the jurisdiction
pertaining to animals and shall cooperate with all law enforcement officers
within the jurisdiction in fulfilling this duty;
   (B)   Cooperating with the Health Director and assisting in the enforcement
of all laws of the state with regard to animals and especially with regard to
vaccination of dogs against rabies and the confinement or leashing of vicious
animals;
   (C)   Making canvasses of the county, including homes and any businesses in
the county, as necessary for the purpose of ascertaining compliance with this
chapter or state statute;
   (D)   Investigating all reported animal bites or other human physical
contact with the suspected rabid animal, enforcing quarantine ordered of any
animal involved and submitting bite reports and reports of human contacts to
the Health Director;
   (E)   Investigating complaints of county residents with regard to animals;
   (F)   Protecting animals from neglect and abuse. Investigating cruelty or
animal abuse with regard to dogs, cats and other animals and enforcement of
state law and county ordinance regarding cruelty;
   (G)   Investigating all reports or observations of incidents of harassment
of or injuries to domesticated livestock caused by animals;
   (H)   Seizing and arranging for impoundment, where deemed necessary, of any
dog or other animal in the county involved in a violation of this chapter or
any other county ordinance or state law;
   (I)   Keeping, or causing to be kept, accurate and detailed records of:
      (1)   Seizure, impoundment and disposition of all animals coming into
custody of the Animal Control Division;
      (2)   Bite cases, violations and complaints, and investigation of same,
including names and addresses of persons bitten, date, circumstances and breed;
      (3)   All moneys belonging to the county which were derived from
penalties; and
      (4)   Any other matters deemed necessary by the Animal Control supervisor
and manager.
   (J)   Being empowered to issue notices of violations or citations of this
chapter in such form as the Animal Control supervisor may prescribe.
(Ord. passed 10-21-2010)
§ 90.04 INTERFERENCE; CONCEALMENT.
   (A)   Interference. It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with,
hinder, molest, resist or obstruct employees of Animal Control or its agents or
veterinarians in the performance of any duty authorized by law or ordinance, or
to seek to release any dog or cat in the custody of such agents (including from
traps, cages or other enclosures), except as specifically provided or
authorized by Animal Control.
   (B)   Concealment of animal. It shall be unlawful for any person to conceal,
for the purpose of evading the licensing requirement or rabies vaccination
requirement of the law or any applicable ordinance, any unlicensed or
unvaccinated animal from any employee of Animal Control.
(Ord. passed 10-21-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 OWNER’S, KEEPER’S DUTIES.
   It shall be unlawful for any keeper or owner of animals, to keep animals
under unsanitary or inhumane conditions or to fail to provide proper food and
water daily, adequate exercise, adequate shelter which is properly cleaned and
properly lighted, adequate space or to fail to provide proper medical attention
for sick, diseased or injured animals, including treatment by a veterinary
consultant if appropriate for the animal’s health or condition, as well as
adequate inoculation against disease, according to the species of the animal
kept. If an Animal Control officer or law enforcement officer seizes an animal,
and no attempt is made by the owner(s) to recover or appeal the seizure, the
animal will be deemed abandoned after six working days and all owners’ rights
shall be forfeited to the county.
(Ord. passed 10-21-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 BIRD SANCTUARIES.
   Previous designations of bird sanctuaries by cities or towns in the county
are unaffected by adoption of this chapter and remain in effect.
(Ord. passed 10-21-2010)
§ 90.07 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or controlling any animal
to allow the same to create a nuisance or public danger by running at large. It
shall be the duty of Animal Control and/or law enforcement officers to take up
and deliver any domesticated animal (e.g., dog, cat), including fowl and other
domestic animals within the meaning of this chapter found running at large to
the county animal shelter. Each person owning or controlling an animal,
including fowl, shall be responsible for taking whatever measures are
reasonably necessary for keeping the animal on the owner’s premises or under
the owner’s control when off his or her premises.
      (1)   Restraint of animals (on less than one acre). It shall be unlawful
for any person owning or having possession, charge, custody or control of any
animal, excluding cats, to keep such animal on or off his or her premises
unless such animal is under sufficient physical restraint such as a leash,
bridle, cage or similar device which restrains and controls the animal (subject
to the provisions set out in § 90.12 of this chapter), within a vehicle or
adequately contained by a fence on the premises or other secure enclosure. If
the owner possesses and maintains an effective and working invisible fence
system to restrain his or her animals, a visible and permanent sign must be on
the premises that states an invisible fence system is in use.
      (2)   Restraint of animals (on one acre or more). Notwithstanding the
provisions of division (A)(1) above, animals kept on a lot or parcel of real
property one acre or greater in size do not have to be kept within a fence or
other secure enclosure or under any physical restraint while on such premises.
This exemption does not relieve any person of the duty to prevent his or her
animal from constituting a nuisance under §
90.09 of this chapter.
   (B)   This chapter shall not be interpreted as restricting persons owning
specially trained hunting/working dogs, which can be controlled by voice
commands, from actually using their dogs for hunting/working (in the presence
of and under the voice control of the owner or an agent of the owner) in
unincorporated areas of the county where such activities are not prohibited by
law.
(Ord. passed 10-21-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 ANIMALS AS PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   (A)   The actions of an animal constitute a public nuisance when an animal
disturbs the rights of, threatens the safety of or damages a member of the
general public or interferes with the ordinary use and enjoyment of another’s
property.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, possess or maintain
an animal in such a manner as to constitute a public nuisance. By way of
example, and not of limitation, the following acts or actions by an owner or
possessor of an animal are hereby declared to be a public nuisance and are,
therefore, unlawful:
      (1)   Having an animal that disturbs the rights of, threatens the safety
of or damages a member of the general public or interferes with the ordinary
use and enjoyment of one’s property;
      (2)   Allowing or permitting an animal to damage the property of anyone
other than its owner/possessor, including, but not limited to, turning over
garbage containers or damaging gardens, flowers or vegetables or defecating
upon the property of another;
      (3)   Maintaining the animals in an unsanitary environment which results
in offensive odors or is dangerous to the animal or the public health, safety
or welfare, or a failure to maintain a condition of good order and cleanliness
which reduces the probability of transmission of disease;
      (4)   Maintaining the owner’s property in a manner that is offensive,
annoying or dangerous to the public health, safety or welfare of the community
because of the number, type, variety, density or location of the animals on the
property;
      (5)   Allowing or permitting an animal to bark, whine, howl, crow or
cackle in a long-continued or frequent fashion so as to interfere with the
reasonable use and enjoyment of neighboring premises;
      (6)   Maintaining an animal that is diseased and dangerous to the public
health;
      (7)   Maintaining an animal that habitually or repeatedly chases, snaps
at, attacks or barks at pedestrians, joggers, animals walked on a leash by
owners, bicycles or other vehicles;
      (8)   Being repeatedly at large or failing to exercise sufficient
restraint necessary to control a dog; and
      (9)   Failing to confine a female dog or cat while in heat in a building
or secure enclosure in such a manner that she will not be in contact with
another dog or cat or attract other animals; provided, this section shall not
be construed to prohibit the intentional breeding of animals within an enclosed
area on the premises of the owner of the animal which is being bred.
   (C)   In addition to any other enforcement remedies available under this
chapter, if the Animal Control supervisor declares an animal to be a nuisance
under this section, then the Animal Control supervisor has the authority to
order the owner to confine the animal in accordance with the Animal Control
supervisor’s instruction. It shall be unlawful for the owner to fail to comply
with such an order or with the instructions in the order.
(Ord. passed 10-21-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09 DANGEROUS MAMMALS; CONFINEMENT AND CONTROL.
   (A)   Generally. It shall be unlawful for any owner to keep an inherently
dangerous mammal within the county.
   (B)   Exemptions. The following shall be exempt from this chapter:
      (1)   Any non-profit institution or exhibitor or dealer, which owns or
harbors inherently dangerous mammals for research; provided that, the
institution/facility/premises are licensed by the U.S. Department of
Agriculture or Interior;
      (2)   Traveling fairs, circuses and carnivals shall also be exempt from
this section; and
      (3)   Any inherently dangerous mammal registered with the Animal Control
Section prior to 6-3-1990.
   (C)   Recapturing. The owner of any inherently dangerous mammal shall
reimburse the county for all costs incurred while attempting to recapture any
mammal. If the animal is sheltered or euthanized by Animal Control, the owner
shall also pay these costs.
(Ord. passed 10-21-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10 DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   General provisions. It shall be unlawful for any person to own or in
any way maintain or harbor any animal which is dangerous or vicious, except as
provided in this chapter.
   (B)   Enforcement.
      (1)   If an Animal Control officer or law enforcement has determined that
an animal is dangerous, then the Animal Control officer or law enforcement
officer shall notify the owner immediately in writing. The owner shall turn the
animal over to the county animal shelter or to an Animal Control approved
veterinary clinic within 24 hours of such notification. After six working days,
the county animal shelter or Animal Control officer shall have the duty and
authority to impose one of the following remedies:
         (a)   Require forfeiture of ownership of the animal(s) to the county;
or
         (b)   Enforce compliance with division (E) below.
      (2)   Any animal declared to be a dangerous or vicious animal, by the
Animal Control officer or law enforcement officer, shall not be disposed of for
research or experimental purposes. Failure to comply with this section or any
parameters herein may result in accessed civil penalties and/or forfeiture of
animal(s).
   (C)   Appeal. Any person who owns an animal that has been declared dangerous
or vicious by an Animal Control officer or law enforcement officer shall have
the right to appeal this decision to an appellate board, in accordance with
G.S. §§ 67-4.1 et seq. The owner of an animal declared dangerous or vicious
shall have the right to request a hearing contesting that determination by
submitting a written request to the office of the manager or his or her
designee within five working days of the Animal Control officer’s or law
enforcement officer’s determination that the animal is dangerous or vicious. A
deposit may be required by the owner equal to the estimated costs, including
veterinary care for ten days’ boarding. Failure to pay said deposit when
required shall be deemed a waiver of all rights regarding the animal.
   (D)   Hearing procedures.
      (1)   The manager or his or her designee, serving as the appeal’s hearing
officer, shall chair an appellate board to conduct a hearing to determine that
the Animal Control officer’s or law enforcement officer’s determination that
the animal is dangerous or vicious should be upheld. The Board shall:
         (a)   Make a determination as to whether or not the animal is
dangerous or vicious, or otherwise possess a sufficient risk to the health or
personal property of others;
         (b)   Determine the appropriate means of compliance in accordance with
division (B) above; and
         (c)   Issue such other order of direction as is necessary to enforce
compliance with this section.
      (2)   If the animal is determined, based on the discretion of the board,
not to be dangerous or vicious, it shall be returned to the owner. If the board
determines the animal to be dangerous or vicious, then the county animal
shelter or Animal Control officer or law enforcement officer shall dispose of
the animal in accordance with the determination of the appeals board. In the
event of an appeal of the board’s decision to the courts, the animal shall be
confined at the county animal shelter pending the appeal. The owner of the
animal shall be responsible for paying all boarding, veterinarian and other
expenses associated with keeping the animal during the appeal.
   (E)   Enclosures for dangerous or vicious animals. If an animal has been
determined to be dangerous or vicious, as specified in this section, and at the
appeals board’s discretion, the owner may retain the animal upon satisfying the
following conditions. The owner must erect, within 30 days of declaration of
dangerous or vicious status by an Animal Control officer or law enforcement
officer, or in the event of an appeal, within 15 days from the decision of the
appeals board, a structure and display warning signs. This structure must be
inspected and approved by a code enforcement official, designated Animal
Control officer or installed by a qualified professional as meeting the
following requirements and standards. (Note: with appropriate findings, the
appeals panel may require alternative method(s) of enforcement of equal to or
more restrictive than the requirements such forth below.)
      (1)   The structure must be a minimum size of 15 feet by six feet by six
feet with a floor consisting of a concrete pad at least four inches thick. If
more than one animal is to be kept in the enclosure, the floor area must
provide at least 45 square feet for each animal. The walls and roof of the
structure must be constructed of welded chain link of a minimum thickness of 12
gauge, supported by galvanized steel poles at least two and one-half inches in
diameter. The vertical support poles must be sunk in concrete-filled holes at
least 18 inches deep and at least eight inches in diameter. The chainlink
fencing must be anchored to the concrete pad with galvanized steel anchors
placed at intervals of no more than 12 inches along the perimeter of the pad.
The entire structure must be freestanding and not be attached or anchored to
any existing fence, building or structure. The structure must be secured by a
child-resistant lock.
      (2)   A warning sign of at least 120 square inches must be visible from
each exposure of the structure which is visible to any adjoining property. Each
sign must have a graphic representation of an appropriate animal such that the
dangerousness or viciousness of the animal is communicated to those who cannot
read, including young children.
      (3)   The owner of the animal will be responsible for ensuring that the
enclosure is maintained in such a condition as to meet the requirements of this
chapter. Failure to maintain or repair the enclosure shall subject the owner to
penalty under this chapter.
      (4)   Prior to inspection of the enclosure by the appropriate personnel
as described in divisions (E) above, the owner shall pay the current fee for
the inspection of an accessory building. The animal shall not be returned to
the owner’s property until such time as this enclosure and warning signs have
been approved. While this structure is being erected, the animal must be
boarded at the county animal shelter at the owner’s expense. A deposit may be
required by the owner equal to the estimated costs, including veterinary care
for ten days’ boarding. Failure to pay said deposit when required shall be
deemed a waiver of all rights regarding the animal.
   (F)   Confinement, muzzling and control of vicious animals. It shall be
unlawful for any owner or person to keep any vicious animal within the county
unless it is confined within a secure building or enclosure or unless it is
securely muzzled and under restraint by a competent adult who, by means of a
leash, chain or rope, has such animal firmly under physical restraint at all
times. Failure to comply will result in a civil penalty and/or forfeiture of
the animal in accordance with division (B)(1) above.
   (G)   Owners of animals deemed dangerous or vicious. Owner(s) of an animal
declared to be dangerous or vicious must immediately notify the county’s Animal
Control, in writing, of any change of address or transfer of ownership of
animal(s).
(Ord. passed 10-21-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.11 ANIMAL FIGHTING AND BAITING.
   (A)   Causing, instigating or permitting. No person shall bait, cause,
instigate or permit any dogfight, cockfight, bullfight or other combat between
animals or between an animal and a human.
   (B)   Facilities and equipment. It shall be unlawful for any person to
maintain, own or possess facilities or equipment for the purpose of training an
animal, including a cock, with the intent that the animal be used in fighting
or baiting of that animal or any other animal. Treadmills, log pulls, break
sticks, hanging devices or cockspurs or other equipment possessed with the
intent to violate this chapter shall be contraband and such material shall be
seized whenever found and shall be destroyed upon conviction of the possessor
or owner under this chapter. This chapter does not prohibit the possession of
facilities or equipment for the training of animals by kennels or animal
obedience schools if such kennels or schools are registered with the state’s
Department of Agriculture.
   (C)   Transportation. It shall be unlawful for any person to transport an
animal, including a cock, with the intent that the animal be used in fighting
or baiting of that animal or any other animal.
   (D)   Transfer. It shall be unlawful for any person to buy, sell, give,
transfer or deliver an animal to another with the intent that the animal be
used in fighting or baiting of that animal or any other animal.
(Ord. passed 10-21-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.12 MISTREATING ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to subject or cause to be subjected any
animal to cruel treatment or to deprive or cause to be deprived any animal of
adequate food and water, necessary medical attention, adequate shelter,
protection from the weather or humanely clean conditions.
   (A)   Adequate food and water. No person owning or responsible for any
animal may fail to supply the animal with sufficient supply of food and water
as prescribed in this section.
      (1)   Adequate food. The provision at suitable intervals, not to exceed
24 hours, of a quantity of wholesome foodstuff suitable for the species and
age, sufficient to maintain a reasonable level of nutrition in each animal.
Such foodstuff shall be served in a receptacle, dish or container that is
physically clean.
      (2)   Adequate water. A constant access to a supply of clean, fresh water
provided in a sanitary manner.
   (B)   Necessary medical attention. No person owning or responsible for any
animal shall fail to supply the animal with necessary medical attention when
the animal is or has been suffering from illness, injury, disease, excessive
parasitism or malformed or overgrown hoof.
   (C)   Proper shelter, protection from the weather and humanely clean
conditions. No person owning or responsible for any animal shall fail to
provide the animal with proper shelter, protection from the weather or humanely
clean conditions as prescribed in this section.
   (D)   Indoor standards. Minimum indoor standards of shelter shall be as
follows.
      (1)   The ambient temperature shall be compatible with the health of the
animal.
      (2)   Indoor housing facilities shall be adequately ventilated by natural
or mechanical means to provide for the health of the animal at all times.
   (E)   Outdoor standards. Minimum outdoor standards of shelter shall be as
follows.
      (1)   When sunlight is likely to cause heat exhaustion of an animal tied
or confined outside, sufficient shade by natural or artificial means shall be
provided to protect the animal from direct sunlight.
      (2)   Shelter shall be as follows:
         (a)   An adequate artificial shelter with a minimum of three sides,
floor and a water-proof roof appropriate to the local climatic conditions for
the species concerned shall be provided as necessary for the health of the
animal; and
         (b)   If a dog is tied or confined unattended outdoors under harsh
weather conditions which adversely affect the health of the dog, a shelter of
suitable size with a floor above ground and water-proof roof shall be provided
to accommodate the dog and protect it from the weather and, in particular, from
severe cold. Inadequate shelter may be indicated by the shivering of the dog
due to cold weather for a continuous period of 30 minutes.
   (F)   When confinement prohibited. No animal may be confined in a building,
enclosure, car, boat, vehicle or vessel of any kind when extreme heat or
extreme cold will be harmful to its health.
   (G)   Standards for chaining. No animal may be chained outdoors unattended
without a chain/cable designed and placed to prevent choking or strangulation.
Such chain/cable or restraint shall not be less than ten feet in length with
the area free of obstacles so that the animal may have access to his or her
food, water and shelter.
   (H)   Space standards. Minimum space requirements for both indoor and
outdoor enclosures shall include the following.
      (1)   The housing facility shall be structurally sound and maintained in
good repair to protect the animal from injury and to contain the animal.
      (2)   Enclosures shall be constructed and maintained to provide
sufficient space to allow each animal adequate freedom of movement. Inadequate
space may be indicated by evidence of overcrowding, debility, stress or
abnormal behavior patterns.
   (I)   Humanely clean conditions. Minimum standards of sanitation necessary
to provide humanely clean conditions for both indoor and outdoor enclosures
shall include periodic cleaning to remove excretions and other waste materials,
dirt and trash to minimize health hazards.
   (J)   Properly fitted collars required. An owner or keeper of a dog or cat
shall not permit injury to or infliction of pain upon such animal from an
improperly fitting or embedded collar.
(Ord. passed 10-21-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.13 CRUEL TREATMENT PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Molestation, torture and the like prohibited. It shall be unlawful for
any person to molest, torture, torment, deprive of necessary sustenance,
cruelly beat or treat, needlessly mutilate or kill, wound, injure, poison,
abandon or subject to conditions detrimental to its health or general welfare
any animal or to cause or procure such action. The words TORTURE and TORMENT
and the term CRUELLY BEAT OR TREAT shall be held to include every act, omission
or neglect whereby unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or death is caused or
permitted; but such terms shall not be construed to prohibit an Animal Control
officer, his or her agents or veterinarians from euthanizing dangerous,
unwanted or injured animals in a humane manner.
   (B)   Luring, enticing, seizing, molesting or teasing an animal. It shall be
unlawful for any person to entice or lure any animal out of an enclosure or off
the property of its owner or keeper, or to seize, molest or tease any animal
while the animal is held or controlled by its owner or keeper or while the
animal is on the property of its owner or keeper; but such actions of luring,
enticing and seizing shall not be construed to prohibit lawful taking of
animals under the jurisdiction and regulations of this chapter by duly
authorized Animal Control officers.
   (C)   Abandonment. It shall be unlawful for any owner or person responsible
for any animal to drop or leave such animal on a street, road, highway or in a
public place or on private property with intent to abandon without provision
for its continuous care, sustenance and shelter. No owner of an animal shall
abandon such animal, except to relinquish the animal to the animal shelter. If
Animal Control finds that an animal has been abandoned, the animal may be
impounded. If the animal has been abandoned in a house or within a fenced area,
Animal Control must make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or manager of
the property. If the property owner or manager is not the animal owner, then
Animal Control shall secure permission to remove the animal. If the property
owner is also the animal owner and this individual cannot be located, Animal
Control shall secure an appropriate warrant to seize the animal. An animal
seized pursuant to this section shall be impounded for a period of at least 72
hours. If the owner contacts Animal Control to reclaim the animal, an
explanation for the animal’s abandonment must be provided to the satisfaction
of the Animal Control supervisor before the animal is reclaimed by the owner.
If the animal is unclaimed by its owner after being held as long as
practicable, the animal shall be placed in adoption or humanely euthanized.
   (D)   Performing animal exhibitions. No person may sponsor, promote or train
a wild or domestic animal to participate in unnatural behavior in which the
animal is wrestled, fought, harassed or displayed in such a way that the animal
is abused or stressed. This prohibition applies to events and activities taking
place in either public or private facilities or property and applies regardless
of the purpose of the event or activities and whether or not a fee is charged
to spectators.
   (E)   Baby animals, novelties and fowl. It shall be unlawful for any person
to sell or offer for sale, barter or give away baby chickens, baby ducklings or
fowl under six weeks of age as pets, toys, premiums or novelties; provided,
however, that, this section shall not be construed to prohibit the sale or
display of such baby chickens, ducklings or other fowl or such rabbits in
proper facilities with adequate food, water and shelter by breeders or stores
engaged in the business of selling the animals for the purposes other than pets
or novelties.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to color, dye, stain or otherwise change the
natural color of baby chickens or fowl or rabbits.
      (2)   No person shall give away any live animal, fish, reptile or bird as
a prize for, or as an inducement to enter any contest, game or other
competition, or as an inducement to enter a place of amusement, or offer such
vertebrate as an incentive to enter into any business agreement whereby the
offer was for the purpose of attracting trade, or sell chances, coupons or
tickets to be redeemed for any live animal, bird or fish.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person to tether any fowl.
   (F)   Transport of animals. It shall be unlawful for any person to transport
an animal in the trunk of a vehicle, or closed compartment on a vehicle or
trailer, or in a truck or the back of a truck in such a way as to cause pain,
suffering or possible pain or death to the animal. Nothing in this section
shall be deemed to prohibit the humane transportation of horses, cattle, sheep,
poultry or other livestock in trailers or other vehicles designed, constructed
and adequate for the size and number of animals being transported.
   (G)   Confinement of animals in motor vehicle. No person may place or
confine an animal or allow an animal to be placed or confined in a motor
vehicle under such a period of time as to endanger the health or well-being of
such animal due to temperature, lack of food or water and such other conditions
as may reasonably be expected to cause suffering, disability or death.
      (1)   After making a reasonable effort to find the driver of a vehicle in
which an animal is confined, an employee of the Animal Control Division may use
the least intrusive means to break and enter the vehicle if necessary to remove
the animal where reasonable cause exists to believe that the animal is in the
vehicle in violation of this division (G).
      (2)   The Animal Control officer removing the animal shall then impound
it and leave in a prominent place on the motor vehicle a written notice of the
animal’s impoundment, a brief description of the animal and where and when the
animal may be reclaimed. The officer may also issue a citation for violation of
this division (G).
   (H)   Intentionally striking animals with motor vehicles. It shall be
unlawful for any person to intentionally strike an animal with an automobile or
other vehicle causing injury or death.
   (I)   Tethering. It shall be unlawful for any person to restrain a dog using
a chain, wire or other type of tethering device in a manner prohibited by this
division (I).
      (1)   No person shall tether, fasten, chain tie or restrain a dog, or
cause such restraining of a dog, to a tree fence, post, dog house or other
stationary object. During periods of tethering that are not unlawful under this
division (I), any tethering device used shall be at least ten feet in length
and attached in such a manner as to prevent strangulation or other injury to
the dog or entanglement with objects.
      (2)   No person shall tether, fasten, chain, tie or restrain a dog, or
cause such restraining of a dog, to a cable trolley system, that allows
movement of the restraining device. During periods of tethering that are not
unlawful under this division (I), the length of the cable along which the
tethering device can move must be at least ten feet, and the tethering device
must be of such length that the dog is able to move ten feet away from the
cable perpendicularly and attached in such a manner as to prevent strangulation
or other injury to the dog and entanglement with objects. During periods of
lawful tethering under this division (I), tethers must be made of rope, twine,
cord or similar material with a swivel on one end or must be made of a chain
that is at least ten feet in length with swivels on both ends and which does
not exceed 10% of the dog’s body weight. All collars or harnesses used for the
purpose of the lawful tethering of a dog must be made of nylon or leather.
      (3)   No person shall tether a dog with a chain or wire or other device
to, or cause such attachment to, any collar other than a buckle type collar or
body harness.
      (4)   No person shall tether with a chain or a wire or other device to,
or cause such attachment to, a head harness, choke-type collar or pronged
collar to a dog.
      (5)   No person shall tether with a chain, wire or other device to a dog
where the weight of the tethering device and the collar combined exceeds 10% of
the dog’s body weight.
      (6)   No person shall tether with a chain or wire or other device a dog
in such a manner that does not allow the dog access to adequate food, water and
shelter.
      (7)   No person shall tether a sick, diseased and/or injured dog, or
puppy (a dog that is one year of age or younger).
      (8)   Notwithstanding the provisions of divisions (I)(1) and (I)(2)
above, a person may, subject to the provisions of divisions (I)(3) through (I)
(7) above, and subject to the requirement that any stationary tethering device
used, shall be at least ten feet in length, and subject to the requirement that
for any cable trolley system used the length of the cable along which the
tethering device can move must be at least ten feet, and the tethering device
must be of such length that the dog is able to move ten feet away from the
cable perpendicularly, may:
         (a)   Tether and restrain a dog while actively engaged in:
            1.   Usage of the dog in shepherding or herding livestock;
            2.   Use of the dog in the business of cultivating agricultural
products, of the restraining is reasonably necessary for the safety of the dog;
            3.   Use of the dog in a lawful hunting activities if the restraint
is reasonably necessary for the safety of the dog;
            4.   Use of the dog at a dog training or performance events,
including but not, limited to, the field trials and obedience trials where
tethering does not occur for a period exceeding seven consecutive days;
            5.   Camping or other recreation where tethering is required by the
camping or recreational area where the dog is located; or
            6.   Any activity where a tethered dog is in visual range of its
owner or keeper, and the owner or keeper is located outside with the dog. After
taking possession of a dog that appears to be a stray dog and after having
advised Animal Control authorities of the capture of dog, tether and restrain
the dog in accordance with the provisions for a period not to exceed seven days
as the person having taken possession of the dog is seeking the identity of the
dog.
         (b)   Walk a dog with a handheld leash.
   (J)   Inspection of pet stores/dealer facilities.
      (1)   Animal Control officers shall have the authority to conduct
inspections of pet stores, to the extent not pre-empted by state law, in order
to determine if there is abuse of animals. Abuse of animals shall include any
act described in this section or any other act which is detrimental to the
well-being of the animal.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any pet store employee or pet store owner
to violate this section.
   (K)   Authority to use force against animals. Nothing in this section shall
prohibit use of force against an animal which is in the act of attacking a
human or a domestic animal.
(Ord. passed 10-21-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.14 NOTICE IN CASE OF INJURY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who causes injury to an animal
(including livestock) including, but not limited to, running over or hitting a
domesticated animal with any vehicle, to fail to notify immediately at least
one of the following: the owner(s) or keeper(s) of the animal (if known or
ascertainable with reasonable efforts made to locate the owner or keeper); an
Animal Control officer; the appropriate police or sheriff’s department; or the
animal shelter.
(Ord. passed 10-21-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.15 DESTRUCTION OF UNSEIZABLE ANIMALS.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, an animal that cannot
be seized by reasonable and normal means, retrieved by an Animal Control
officer, trapped in a humane, live-capture animal trap provided by Animal
Control, or tranquilized by Animal Control Division personnel may be humanely
destroyed in the field upon the authorization of the Animal Control Division
director or his or her designee; provided, a vicious animal, a dangerous animal
so designated by the Public Health Director, or an animal attacking a human
being, another pet or livestock may be immediately destroyed if, in the opinion
of the Animal Control supervisor or Animal Control officer, such destruction is
necessary for the protection of the public health and safety.
(Ord. passed 10-21-2010)
§ 90.16 ANIMAL TRAPS.
   Animal Control is authorized to place, upon request, live-capture animal
traps on private or public property to trap and remove stray, at large,
unwanted or nuisance animals, including cats. It is unlawful for any person
other than an Animal Control officer or his, her or their designee to remove
any animal from the trap or to damage, destroy, move or tamper with the trap.
Animal Control is authorized to receive and impound animals that are trapped by
other agencies or persons.
(Ord. passed 10-21-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.17 SECURITY DOGS.
   (A)   The owner of a security dog shall comply with the following
requirements prior to using the dog as a security dog.
      (1)   Identification. It shall be unlawful for any owner of a security
dog to fail to provide said dog with a current rabies tag and a security dog
identification tag. A security dog’s owner must provide proof of current rabies
vaccination of the dog prior to being issued a security dog ID tag.
      (2)   Registration. It shall be unlawful for any owner and keeper of a
security dog to use said dog as a security dog in the county without first
having registered the dog with the Animal Control Division and having obtained
a current rabies tag and security dog ID tag.
      (3)   Signs. The owner or keeper of any security dog and the owner of any
premises using a security dog must conspicuously post on the premises in plain
view of the public a sign that identifies the name, address and telephone
number of the owner of the security dog.
      (4)   Physical control. The owner and user of a security dog must ensure
that an adequate physical control of the security dog is provided during
operational hours to prevent the security dog from coming in contact with the
general public on the premises. If a security dog escapes and while either off
or on the premises of his or her owner bites someone other than a trespasser,
the Animal Control supervisor shall have the authority to prohibit dog from
serving as a security dog within the jurisdiction. It shall be unlawful for any
owner or keeper to use a dog as a security dog after the Animal Control
supervisor has entered a prohibition regarding that particular dog.
   (B)   (1)   If the Animal Control Division seizes a security dog running at
large, the dog shall not be returned to its owner until the owner has
registered that dog and all other dogs of that owner used as security dogs
within the jurisdiction and has demonstrated to the Animal Control Division
that appropriate corrections have been made to prevent said animals from
escaping again.
      (2)   The Animal Control Division has the authority to seize security
dogs and issue citations for non-compliance with this section.
(Ord. passed 10-21-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.18 HUNTING.
   Nothing in this chapter is intended to be in conflict with the laws of the
state regulating, restricting, authorizing or otherwise affecting dogs while
used in hunting, but this exception applies while the dogs are under the
control of the owner, keeper or competent person and are actually lawfully
being used for hunting or training in compliance with applicable statutes,
regulations or ordinances. This chapter should be read and enforced consistent
with any such law.
(Ord. passed 10-21-2010)
§ 90.19 WILD AND EXOTIC ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall keep or permit to be kept on his or her premises any
dangerous wild animal. This section shall not be construed to apply to
zoological parks, performing animal exhibitions or circuses.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own or shelter any exotic
animal without a permit from the county. The permit shall identify the species
and may include restrictions on care and sheltering of the animal. The county
may charge a fee for the permit; said fee to be included in the schedule of
fees published by the county. Any exotic animal deemed to be a “dangerous wild
animal” within the meaning of division (A) above shall not be permitted. Zoos,
authorized habitats or animal refuge centers are exempt from the provisions of
this section.
(Ord. passed 10-21-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.20 RABIES CONTROL.
   (A)   Compliance with state rabies laws; chapter supplemental to state
rabies laws.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any animal owner or other person to fail
to comply with the state laws relating to the control of rabies.
      (2)   It is the purpose of this section to supplement the state laws by
providing procedure for the enforcement of state laws relating to rabies
control, in addition to the criminal penalties provided by state law.
   (B)   Vaccination of dogs, cats and other pets.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for an owner or keeper to fail to provide
current vaccination against rabies for any dog or cat four months of age or
older. Should it be deemed necessary by the Public Health Director or the Board
of County Commissioners that other pets be vaccinated in order to prevent a
threatened epidemic or to control an existing epidemic, it shall be unlawful
for an owner or keeper to fail to provide current vaccination against rabies
for that pet.
      (2)   A rabies vaccination shall be deemed “current” for a dog or cat if
the initial vaccination has been administered to the animal by a licensed
veterinarian within the preceding 12 months, and if any subsequent vaccination
has been administered to the animal by a licensed veterinarian within the
preceding 36 months.
      (3)   All rabies vaccines shall be administered by a licensed
veterinarian or a certified rabies vaccinator who may be appointed by the
Health Director.
      (4)   The owner of a dog or cat not having a current rabies vaccination
shall be subject to a civil penalty as set out in the fee schedule if such
owner does not produce a valid and current rabies vaccination tag or form
within 72 hours of the demand for same by any Animal Control or law enforcement
officer. Failure to produce the tag or form under this division (B)(4) is a
separate offense for each animal owned by such owner.
   (C)   Vaccination tag and certificate.
      (1)   Issuance of tag. Upon complying with the provisions of this
division (C), there shall be issued to the owner or keeper of the dog or cat
vaccinated a rabies tag, stamped with a number and the year for which issued
and a rabies vaccination certificate.
      (2)   Provision and wearing of collar or harness. It shall be unlawful
for any dog or cat owner or keeper to fail to provide the dog or cat with a
collar or harness to which a current rabies tag issued under this division (C)
is securely attached. The collar or harness, with attached tag, must be worn at
all times, except during the time the dog is performing at shows, obedience
trials, tracking tests, field trials, training schools or other events
sanctioned and supervised by a recognized organization.
      (3)   Ear tag for cats. In substitution for division (C)(2) above, an
owner or keeper of a cat may obtain an ear tag for rabies identification.
      (4)   Impoundment for not wearing tag. In addition to all other penalties
as prescribed by law, a dog or cat is subject to impoundment in accordance with
the provisions of this section if the dog is found not to be wearing a
currently valid rabies tag or the owner of the cat cannot produce sufficient
written evidence to prove it has a current rabies vaccine.
      (5)   Use of another’s tag prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any
person to use for any animal a rabies vaccination tag issued for an animal
other that the one using the tag.
      (6)   Confinement and vaccination of dogs and cats; certificate from
licensed veterinarian. All dogs or cats shipped or otherwise brought into the
county, except for exhibition purposes where the dogs or cats are confined and
not permitted to run at large, shall be securely confined and vaccinated within
one week after entry and shall remain confined for two additional weeks after
vaccination. The above provisions of division (C)(5) above shall not apply to
dogs or cats accompanied by a current certificate issued by a licensed
veterinarian showing that such dog or cat is apparently free from rabies and
has not been exposed to same. A local rabies tag and certification shall be
issued from a licensed veterinarian within two weeks after such entry.
   (D)   Report and confinement of animals biting persons or showing symptoms
of rabies.
      (1)   Quarantine. Every animal which has bitten any person or which shows
symptoms of rabies shall be confined immediately and shall be promptly reported
to the Animal Control Division and, thereupon, shall be securely quarantined,
at the direction of the Animal Control Division, for ten days commencing from
the time of the bite. Every animal quarantined under this section shall be
confined at the expense of its owner in an in-county veterinary hospital or an
out-of-county veterinary hospital if approved by the Health Director or his or
her designee.
      (2)   Authority to seize animals for non-compliance. If the owner or the
person who controls or possesses the dog or cat refuses to confine the animal
as required by this section, the Health Director may order seizure of the
animal and its confinement for ten days in such place as the Health Director
designates at the expense of the owner.
      (3)   Release upon permission of Health Director. Animals confined in
this section shall not be released from confinement, except by permission from
the Health Director or the veterinarian consultant.
      (4)   Disposition of animal other than dog or cat. The disposition of an
animal other than a dog or cat that bites a person shall be at the discretion
of the Health Director in consultation with the veterinarian consultant.
      (5)   Quarantine of stray animals. In the case of stray animals whose
ownership is not known, the supervised quarantine required by this section
shall be at the county animal shelter.
      (6)   Authority to euthanize unclaimed animals. If any animal is
unclaimed after the ten-day confinement, then the county animal shelter
director, in consultation with the veterinarian consultant, may humanely
euthanize the animal unless the director receives instructions of a different
nature from the Health Director.
      (7)   Release from quarantine. If rabies does not develop with the ten-
day quarantine period under this section, the animal may be released from
quarantine to its owner with written permission from the animal shelter
director or the veterinarian consultant. If the animal has been confined in the
county animal shelter, upon reclaiming the animal, the owner shall pay the fee
established by resolution of the Board of County Commissioners for each day of
confinement to defray the cost of sheltering the animal.
      (8)   Report of bites. Law enforcement agencies investigating animal
bites shall report such bites immediately to the Health Director or person
designated by the Health Director and give the names and addresses of persons
bitten and owner of the animal.
      (9)   Euthanization of wounded, diseased or suffering animals. Badly
wounded, diseased or suffering animals which are suspected of having rabies may
be humanely euthanized immediately and the head forwarded for examination.
   (E)   Destruction or confinement of animal bitten by a known rabid animal.
Animals not vaccinated against rabies which are bitten by a known rabid animal
shall be immediately destroyed, unless the owner or keeper agrees to strict
isolation of the animal at a veterinary hospital for a period of six months at
the owner’s or keeper’s expense. If the animal has a current rabies
vaccination, it shall be revaccinated and confined for a period of six weeks
and then returned to the owner or keeper.
   (F)   Area-wide emergency quarantine.
      (1)   When reports indicate a positive diagnosis of rabies in an animal
found within the county or an adjacent county, the Health Director may order an
area-wide quarantine for such period as he or she deems necessary. Upon
invoking of such emergency quarantine, no dog or cat may be taken or shipped
from the county without written permission of the county’s Public Health
Director. During such quarantine, the Health Director, law enforcement
officers, Animal Control officers or persons duly authorized by the Health
Director may seize and impound any dog or cat found running at large in the
county. During the quarantine period, the Health Director shall be empowered to
provide for a program of mass immunization by the establishment of temporary
emergency rabies vaccination facilities strategically located throughout the
county.
      (2)   In the event there are additional positive cases of rabies
occurring during the period of quarantine, such period of quarantine may be
extended at the discretion of the Health Director.
   (G)   Postmortem diagnosis.
      (1)   If an animal dies while under observation for rabies, the head of
such animal shall be submitted to the Health Department for shipment to the
State Laboratory of Hygiene for diagnosis.
      (2)   The carcass of any dead animal exposed to rabies shall be
surrendered to the Animal Control Department. The head of such animal shall be
submitted to the Health Department for shipment to the State Laboratory of
Hygiene for diagnosis.
   (H)   Unlawful killing, releasing and the like of certain animals. It shall
be unlawful for any person to kill or release any animal under observation for
rabies, any animal suspected of having been exposed to rabies, or any animal
biting a human, or to remove such animal from the county without written
permission from the Animal Control Division or the Health Director.
   (I)   Failure to surrender an animal for quarantine or euthanasia. It shall
be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to surrender any animal for
quarantine or euthanasia as required in this chapter when demand is made
therefor by the Animal Control Division.
(Ord. passed 10-21-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.21 BREEDER, LITTER PERMITS.
   (A)   Permit/payment of fee required; proof of rabies vaccination; penalty
for failure to obtain permit or pay fee.
      (1)   Breeders or other person(s) with the intention of breeding their
domesticated (non-farm) animals must obtain a permit from the County Animal
Shelter. The breeder shall pay a fee of $10 for each litter produced. Before a
permit is obtained, the breeder/owner must show proof of rabies vaccination for
each animal intended for breeding. A person whose animal has produced a litter
without having previously obtained a permit for that litter shall have ten days
from the day the litter is produced in which to obtain a permit.
      (2)   Persons who fail to obtain a permit or fail to pay the required
fees will be subject to a civil penalty as set out in the fee schedule. The
person otherwise liable for the civil penalty shall be exempt from the civil
penalty if such person causes the animal which produced the litter to be spayed
within ten days of being cited for such penalty.
   (B)   Effective date; inclusion of permit number in advertisements by
domesticated animal transporters.
      (1)   This section shall be in effect until 12-31-1996, and shall no
longer be effective after that date unless re-enacted by the county’s Board of
Commissioners prior to that date.
      (2)   Persons who advertise for the transfer of domesticated (non-farm)
animals (with or without charge) shall include their permit number on the
advertisement. Fees and penalties will be paid to the county animal shelter.
(Ord. passed 10-21-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
**** IMPOUNDMENT ****
§ 90.35 GENERALLY.
   Any animal found being mistreated or kept under unsanitary or inhumane
conditions, as provided in §
90.09 of this chapter; any animal found to be cruelly treated, as provided in §
90.13 of this chapter; any animal found to be a public nuisance, as provided in
§
90.08 of this chapter; any dog found running at large or not under restraint in
violation of §
90.07 of this chapter; or any animal which appears to be lost, strayed or
unwanted, or any dog or cat is found to be not wearing a currently valid rabies
vaccination tag, as required by state law, shall be seized, impounded and
confined by the Animal Control officer and confined in the animal shelter in a
humane manner. Impoundment of such animal shall not relieve the owner thereof
of any penalty which may be imposed for violation of any provision of this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-21-2010)
§ 90.36 NOTICE TO OWNER.
   Immediately upon impounding an animal, the Animal Control officer shall make
reasonable effort to notify the owner and inform such owner of the conditions
whereby the animal may be redeemed.
(Ord. passed 10-21-2010)
§ 90.37 REDEMPTION BY OWNER GENERALLY.
   The owner of an animal impounded under this chapter may redeem the animal
and regain possession thereof in accordance with the rules and fees set by the
Board of County Commissioners in the policies for operation of the county
animal shelter and by complying with all applicable provisions of this chapter
and by paying all fees and penalties due. Fee rates shall be available for
public inspection in the office of the Clerk to the Board of County
Commissioners and at the county animal shelter. The owner shall also be
responsible for any additional costs associated with the seizure and sheltering
of the animal. All fees must be paid prior to redemption. Failure to pay shall
constitute waiver of all rights regarding the animal.
(Ord. passed 10-21-2010)
§ 90.38 ADOPTION OR EUTHANASIA OF UNREDEEMED ANIMAL.
   (A)   If any impounded animal is not redeemed by the owner within the period
prescribed in the policies for operation of the county animal shelter, filed as
stated in §
90.37 of this chapter, then such animal may be offered for adoption or
destroyed in a humane manner in accordance with such policies.
   (B)   No animal owner may be permitted to claim his or her own animal under
the provisions of this section unless and until he or she shall comply with the
provisions of the policies for operation of the county animal shelter for same.
   (C)   All unsterilized dogs and cats adopted from the county animal shelter
shall be either spayed or neutered in accordance with the policies for
operation of the county animal shelter. Written veterinary proof of the
sterilization shall be promptly provided by the adopter to the Animal Control
Division. The adoption of any dog or cat not sterilized pursuant to this
section shall be deemed incomplete and the dog or cat must be returned by the
applicant for adoption to the county animal shelter. If such dog or cat is not
returned to the animal shelter, an Animal Control officer may be dispatched to
retrieve the dog or cat. The Animal Control supervisor is authorized to obtain
a copy of the adoption agreement from the county animal shelter in order to
implement the provisions of this section.
(Ord. passed 10-21-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.39 SUSPECTED RABID DOGS OR CATS.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, dogs or cats impounded
which appear to be suffering from rabies shall not be redeemed or adopted, but
shall be dealt with in accordance with G.S. Ch. 130A.
(Ord. passed 10-21-2010)
§ 90.40 DEPOSIT.
   The county may require a deposit from the owner in an amount equal to the
estimated costs (including seizure, shelter and veterinary care) for ten days,
as determined by the county, in its discretion. Failure to pay said deposit
shall be deemed a waiver to any right of redemption. Upon redemption, the
county will repay any unexpended portion of the deposit.
(Ord. passed 10-21-2010)
§ 90.41 RABIES; UNVACCINATED ANIMAL.
   (A)   Unless proof of a current rabies vaccination can be furnished, every
person who redeems a dog or cat at the animal shelter must obtain and submit
the fee for a rabies voucher at the time of redemption. This voucher will be
presented with a date stating the maximum time limit allowed to take the dog or
cat to the veterinarian of such person’s choice for rabies vaccination.
   (B)   The rabies voucher will be completed and returned to the animal
shelter by the veterinarian. If the voucher is not returned to the animal
shelter within the specified time limit, an Animal Control officer may be
dispatched to retrieve the dog or cat if corrective action has not been taken
by the animal’s owner.
   (C)   Payment for the rabies vaccination provided for this section will be
the responsibility of the person redeeming the dog or cat.
(Ord. passed 10-21-2010)
§ 90.42 WOUNDED OR DISEASED ANIMALS; HUMANE EUTHANASIA.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, any animal impounded
which is badly wounded or diseased (not rabies suspect) and has no
identification shall be destroyed immediately in a humane manner. If the animal
has identification, the animal shelter shall attempt expeditiously to notify
the owner or keeper before euthanizing such animal, but if the owner cannot be
reached readily and the animal is suffering, the animal shelter director or his
or her designee may cause the animal to be euthanized at his or her discretion
in a humane manner. The animal shelter and Animal Control Division shall have
no liability for euthanizing wounded or diseased animals.
(Ord. passed 10-21-2010)
§ 90.43 STRAY ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the consent of the owner or
keeper, knowingly and intentionally to harbor, keep in possession by
confinement or otherwise any animal that does not belong to him or her. Any
person in possession of a stray animal shall contact the Animal Control
Division or animal shelter within 72 hours to arrange for impoundment or to
provide notification of the stray animal’s description and location.
(Ord. passed 10-21-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
**** HIGH-VOLUME BREEDERS AND RETAILERS ****
§ 90.55 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION; ISSUANCE.
   (A)   No person may act as a high-volume breeder or retailer, except in
accordance with a permit issued pursuant to this subchapter.
   (B)   Animal Control shall issue the permit required by this section. Before
issuing the permit, Animal Control shall require proof that each of the
conditions set out herein have been met by the breeder.
   (C)   The application for a permit shall include the name, address and
telephone number of the owner of the animals, the address and physical location
of the kennel. It shall also include the number, breed, type and age of the
animals.
(Ord. passed 10-21-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.56 HOUSING AND SHELTER.
   (A)   Housing.
      (1)   Housing shall provide for sanitary and safe housing for dogs, and
shall provide adequate space appropriate to the age, size, weight and breed of
the dog and that allows the dog to engage in normal body movements, including
the ability to sit, stand up, turn about freely or lie fully recumbent in a
natural position. The primary enclosure shall provide at least partial solid
flooring. Non- solid flooring must be safe for the breed, size and age of the
dog; be free from protruding sharp edges; and be designed to that the paw of
the dog is unable to extend through or become caught in the flooring.
      (2)   Each dog, if housed in a primary enclosure, whether housed alone or
with other compatible dogs, shall be provided a minimum amount of space,
calculated as:
         (a)   For non-breeding dogs housed together, the primary enclosure
shall provide 100 percent of the required space for each dog, if maintained
separately;
         (b)   Each bitch with nursing puppies must be provided with an
additional amount of floor space, based on her breed and behavioral
characteristics, and in accord with generally accepted husbandry practices as
determined by the attending veterinarian. If the additional amount of floor
space for each nursing puppy is less than 5% of the minimum requirement for the
bitch, such housing must be approved by the county;
         (c)   The interior height of a primary enclosure must be at least six
inches higher than the head of the tallest dog in the enclosure when it is in a
normal standing position; and
         (d)   Innovative primary enclosures not precisely meeting the floor
area requirements provided in divisions (A)(2)(a), (A)(2)(b) and (A)(2)(c)
above, but that provide the dogs with a sufficient volume of space and the
behavioral needs stated in §
90.58 of this chapter may be used at an operation when approved by the county.
   (B)   Shelter. Shelter shall provide protection from harmful extremes of
temperature, air movement, moisture, light and other climatic elements to
ensure proper health and well-being of the dog.
   (C)   Storage facilities. Storage facilities shall be designed and
maintained as to provide adequate storage to protect food, medicines, supplies
and bedding from deterioration, contamination and vermin infestation. Any
potentially toxic substance should be stored in a manner to avoid contamination
and potential for harm to the dogs.
   (D)   Structure. Structures shall be structurally sound, in good repair,
have no sharp edges or points that could injure the dog(s) and shall securely
contain the dogs while precluding access by other animals. Structural surfaces
should be subitizable or replaceable.
   (E)   Waste disposal. All excreta, feces, debris and food wastes must be
removed from enclosures, at least once daily, and from under primary enclosures
as often as necessary, to prevent an excessive accumulation of feces and food
waste, to prevent soiling of dogs contained in the enclosure and to reduce
disease hazards, insects, pests and odors. Premises must be kept free of
accumulations of trash, junk, waste products and discarded matter. Waste must
be handled and disposed of in a manner that poses minimal hazards to dogs and
personnel and reduces the likelihood of contamination of the soil or ground
water with chemicals and/or microorganisms.
   (F)   Cleaning and sanitation. Hard surfaces with which the dogs come in
contact must be spot-cleaned daily and sanitized at least once every two weeks
and more often if necessary to prevent accumulation of dirt, debris, food
waste, excreta and other disease hazards. When steam or water is used to clean
the primary enclosure, whether by hosing, flushing or other methods, dogs must
be removed, unless the enclosure is large enough to ensure the dogs will not be
harmed, wetted or distressed in the process. Standing water must be removed
from the primary enclosure and dogs in other primary enclosures must be
protected from being contaminated with water and other wastes during cleaning.
   (G)   Lighting. The facility shall have sufficient lighting by natural and/
or artificial means as to allow observation of the physical condition of the
dogs being housed and to permit inspection and cleaning of the facility. A
diurnal lighting cycle should be provided.
   (H)   Environment. Dogs shall be protected from extreme temperatures so as
to maintain their health and render their environment comfortable. When
climatic conditions pose a threat to a dog’s health or well-being, taking into
consideration such factors as the dog’s age, breed, overall health status and
acclimation, appropriate measures must be taken to alleviate the impact of
those conditions. Adequate ventilation shall be provided to minimize odors,
drafts, ammonia levels and to prevent the condensation of moisture.
   (I)   Pest control. An effective program for the control of insects,
external parasites affecting dogs and birds and mammals that are pests must be
established and maintained so as to promote the health and well-being of the
dogs and reduce contamination by pests in dog areas.
   (J)   Retreat area. Dogs shall also be provided in their primary enclosure
some form of a den, which shall comprise at least a solid floor and visual
barrier, as to allow rest and retreat.
   (K)   Whelping box. All bitches with litters shall be provided an
appropriate whelping box, which should provide means to contain the puppies
during whelping, and provide some form of substrate, insulation or heat source
so as to prevent dissipation of heat so that all puppies are able to maintain
appropriate body temperature. If a heat source is provided, care must be taken
to protect the bitch and puppies from thermal injury.
(Ord. passed 10-21-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.57 NUTRITION AND HYDRATION.
   (A)   Adequate food. A dog shall be fed at least once daily, or as otherwise
required on the advice of a veterinarian. The food should be free from
contaminants and be of sufficient nutritive value and quantity to maintain the
normal condition and weight of the dog as germane to its age, sex, breed and
reproductive status.
   (B)   Potable water. Potable water shall be provided at all times, unless
otherwise directed by a veterinarian.
   (C)   Food and water receptacles. Food and water receptacles shall be
readily accessible to all dogs and shall be located to minimize contamination
and to protect them from precipitation. Any non- disposable receptacles shall
be durable, cleaned daily and sanitized at least once per week; disposable
receptacles shall be replaced daily, and automatic feeders shall be cleaned and
sanitized regularly to prevent the growth of mold and deterioration or caking
of feed. Automatic watering devices shall be kept clean, be properly and
regularly sanitized and be tested daily to ensure they are functioning
correctly.
(Ord. passed 10-21-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.58 BEHAVIORAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   The following behavioral needs shall be met at least daily, except
as stated otherwise. All persons should have a documented protocol regarding
how to meet the following necessary behavioral needs and sufficient facilities
and/or staff to meet them.
      (2)   The goal shall be to allow dogs the opportunity to partake in
species-specific behaviors. Dogs shall not be housed for extended periods of
time in a manner devoid of any enrichment and/or activity and/or social
contact.
   (B)   Conspecific socialization. Dogs shall be provided with full-body
physical contact with other compatible dogs daily, except as necessary for
reasons such as veterinary treatment or quarantine or prior to parturition for
a bitch. Prior to weaning, a bitch and her litter shall fulfill all conspecific
socialization needs among the group.
   (C)   Human socialization.
      (1)   Dogs shall be provided with daily positive human contact and
socialization. Contact during feeding time alone is not sufficient to meet this
requirement.
      (2)   Every effort should be made to provide dogs that are housed singly
with visual enrichment, such as visual contact with conspecifics or humans,
except as necessary for veterinary care, quarantine or prior to parturition for
a bitch.
   (D)   Locomotion.
      (1)   Persons shall ensure that each dog that is weaned has access to
“locomotory activity”; this activity should allow for an animal to move
sufficiently to develop and/or maintain normal muscle tone and mass as
pertinent for the age, breed, sex and reproductive status of the dog.
Provisions for locomotory activity should also allow the dog an opportunity to
achieve a running stride.
      (2)   The provided area for locomotion should be separate from the
primary enclosure if the primary enclosure does not allow for fulfillment of
adequate locomotion enrichment and social activities. The area must be kept
clean, free of infestation by pests or vermin and prevent escape of the dogs.
      (3)   Forced activity, other than for veterinary treatment, is neither
sufficient nor appropriate for fulfilling these needs. Physical activity that
is repetitive, restrictive of other activities, solitary and not goal-oriented
is neither sufficient nor appropriate for fulfilling all activity needs.
(Ord. passed 10-21-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.59 GROUPING.
   (A)   Dogs having locomotory activity in groups and/or social interaction
must be compatible and free of infectious disease.
   (B)   Females in heat shall not be housed in the same primary enclosure with
males, except for breeding purposes.
   (C)   Any dog exhibiting vicious or aggressive behavior shall be housed
separately, as needed to prevent injury to other dogs. As with quarantine,
separation of dogs due to aggression should be accompanied by a program to
resolve the underlying causes of this disorder.
   (D)   If a dog is infected with a contagious disease or condition as
determined by a licensed veterinarian, one must house the dog separately from
healthy animals, and shall handle the dog in a manner that will minimize the
likelihood of contagion. Handlers must wash their hands before and after
handling each infected or contagious dog.
(Ord. passed 10-21-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.60 STAFF; HIRING.
   (A)   An adequate number of trained staff must be provided to ensure
appropriate upkeep of the facility and that all minimum care requirements for
the dogs can be met.
   (B)   (1)   The permittee shall not hire individuals who have pled no
contest or have been found to have violated any federal, state or local laws or
regulations pertaining to animal cruelty within one year of application for
employment, or more than one year if the board/agency determines the
circumstances render the applicant unfit for employment.
      (2)   The permittee shall report to the board/agency any no contest pleas
or convictions pertaining to animal cruelty involving any of his or her
employees that occur during the time they are employed by licensee.
(Ord. passed 10-21-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.61 HANDLING REQUIREMENTS.
   Handling of all dogs should be done as carefully as possible in a manner
that does not cause trauma, overheating, excessive cooling, behavioral stress,
physical harm or unnecessary discomfort.
(Ord. passed 10-21-2010)
§ 90.62 HEALTH AND VETERINARY CARE.
   (A)   All persons shall:
      (1)   Ensure that necessary routine and preventive veterinary care is
provided under the direction of a licensed veterinarian, and maintain a written
health care management protocol addressing routine veterinary care. At a
minimum, regular preventive care should include examination at least once
yearly by a licensed veterinarian for breeding dogs;
      (2)   Assess each dog’s health and welfare daily; this should include
observation of body condition (e.g., appropriate weight, skin/coat/nail
condition), behavior and whether the dog is eating, drinking, urinating and
defecating normally;
      (3)   Provide prompt treatment of illness or injury under the direction
of a licensed veterinarian;
      (4)   Maintain records of any veterinary care, including records of
regular preventive veterinary care; and
      (5)   Ensure that humane euthanasia is performed when necessary and only
by a licensed veterinarian or other certified personnel pursuant to state
regulations, using methods cited in the “American Veterinary Medical
Association’s Guidelines on Euthanasia” and in accordance with applicable
federal and state laws.
   (B)   Upon written approval by a licensed veterinarian or the county, any
dog may be exempted from any of the standards of care mentioned in §
90.57 of this chapter, reasonable expiration date must be provided for such
exemptions at which time the exemption shall be re-evaluated to determine
whether it is still appropriate.
   (C)   All veterinary care provided pursuant to the requirements in this
subchapter shall be provided within a veterinarian-client-patient relationship,
and in accord with the state’s Veterinary Practice Act, being G.S. § 90-187.16,
with provisions for both routine and emergency care.
(Ord. passed 10-21-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.63 INSPECTIONS; REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person, household or business entity permitted to conduct breeding
operations shall allow County Animal Control to inspect, at reasonable times,
without notification, at least one time per year, any premises used by the
breeder for breeding animals. The purpose of the inspection shall be to ensure
the safety and health of the animals used in the breeding operation and
compliance of the breeder with laws regulating the breeding and care of the
animals in the care, custody and control of the breeder. Animal Control may
revoke the permit of any breeder who refuses to allow an inspection of the
breeder’s premises used for breeding operations. Any breeder or retailer must
demonstrate compliance with relevant, applicable local regulations.
   (B)   The requirements of this section apply to all breeders in operation on
the effective date of this section, as well as any established thereafter.
   (C)   A permit issued in accordance with this section may be revoked by
Animal Control for violation of any of the conditions enumerated under division
(B) above. Animal Control shall state the reason for revocation in writing and
shall deliver the determination of revocation to the permittee personally or by
registered or certified mail, return receipt requested.
   (D)   Any person who is denied a permit or whose permit is revoked pursuant
to this section shall have 30 days to comply with the requirements of this
section or to reduce the number of animals not spayed or neutered on the
premises to not more than four.
   (E)   (1)   Any person who is denied a permit or who has a permit revoked
may appeal the denial or revocation to the County Manager or his or her
designee by giving written notice of appeal to the County Manager within 30
days after the receipt of the written determination. The County Manager or his
or her designee shall conduct a de novo hearing to determine if the permit
should be denied or revoked.
      (2)   Any enforcement action shall stay pending upon determination of an
appeal pursuant to this division (E).
(Ord. passed 10-21-2010)
§ 90.64 MAINTAINING FACILITIES IN VIOLATION.
   Additional requirements for dog breeders and dog retailers who are
maintaining facilities in violation of this chapter.
   (A)   This section applies to:
      (1)   Any dog breeder or dog retailer who is not required to obtain a
permit pursuant to §§
90.55 through
90.63 of this chapter; and
      (2)   Has been determined to operate a kennel or operate as a dog
retailer in violation §§
90.09,
90.10,
90.11,
90.12,
90.13 and
90.18 of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person subject to the requirements of this section must meet the
standards of §§
90.55 through
90.63 of this chapter for the breeding and/or dog retail operation for a period
of two years after the notice of violation; such fees as set out in the fee
schedule.
   (C)   For the purposes of this section, any person who has received a notice
of violation for any of the above referenced sections will be deemed covered by
the requirements of this section; if any/all citations or penalties issued are
at some point overturned or deemed void, the person will have no further
obligations under this section; however, the compliance review cost, plus any
other costs incurred by the person, pursuant to the provision of this section
during such time when compliance was necessary, may not be recovered.
(Ord. passed 10-21-2010)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The following penalties shall pertain to violations of this chapter.
      (1)   The violation of any provision of this chapter shall be a
misdemeanor and any person convicted of such violation shall be punishable as
provided in G.S. § 14-4 or other applicable law. Each day’s violation of this
chapter is a separate offense. Payment of a fine imposed in criminal
proceedings pursuant to this division (A) does not relieve a person of his or
her liability for taxes or of fees imposed under this chapter.
      (2)   Enforcement of this chapter may include any appropriate equitable
remedy, injunction or order of abatement issuing from a court of competent
jurisdiction pursuant to G.S. § 153A-123(d) and (e).
      (3)   Issuance of a citation for a violation of §
90.07(A) of this chapter is directed toward and against the owner and/or
possessor of an animal. The purpose of the issuance of a citation is to affect
the conduct of the owner of an animal by seeking to have an owner responsibly
maintain sufficient restraint and confinement of his or her animal. Therefore,
an owner of an animal shall be subject to escalating penalties for each
violation of the section entitled allowed by the owner, whether the animal is
the same animal, a different animal or various animals belonging to the owner.
      (4)   In addition to and independent of any criminal penalties and other
sanctions provided in this chapter, a violation of this chapter may also
subject the offender to the civil penalties hereinafter set forth in the
schedule of fees attached hereto. The fees and civil penalties set out herein
may be modified by the county.
      (5)   (a)   The Animal Control supervisor, or designee, may issue to the
known owner or keeper of any animal, or to any other violator of the provisions
of this chapter, a citation giving notice of the alleged violations(s).
Citations so issued may be delivered in person or mailed by certified or
registered mail to the person charged if that person cannot readily be found.
This civil penalty shall be paid in full to the Animal Control supervisor or
his or her designee within 30 days of receipt of the citation assessing the
civil penalty. This civil penalty is in addition to any other fees or costs
authorized by this chapter. Failure to appeal any penalty within the designated
time shall constitute a waiver of all rights of appeal.
         (b)   For violations of §
90.08(B)(2) of this chapter, security personnel for the county are expressly
authorized to issue citations for violations of the above referenced section
occurring on county property.
      (6)   In the event that the owner or keeper of an animal or other alleged
violator does not appear in response to the above-described ticket or citation,
or the applicable civil penalty is not paid within the time period prescribed,
a civil action may be commenced to recover the penalty and costs associated
with collection of the penalty, and/or a criminal summons may be issued against
the owner or keeper or other alleged violator of this chapter and, upon
conviction, the owner shall be punished as provided by state law. The Animal
Control supervisor, or designee, is expressly authorized to collect the fees or
penalties as a debt. Failure to appeal an action within the stated deadline
shall constitute a waiver of any rights of appeal.
   (B)   If the person adopting an unsterilized animal fails to cause the
animal to be sterilized within the prescribed by the animal shelter or
veterinarian, per §
90.38 of this chapter, such failure shall constitute a violation of this
chapter and shall subject said person to a civil penalty in the amount of $200.
   (C)   The following civil penalties are hereby established for the indicated
violations of this chapter:
Animal Control Civil Penalty Fee Schedule
Section Violation Description Fee
Animal Control Civil Penalty Fee Schedule
Section Violation Description                                                  Fee
§      Interference of duty of any Animal Control Division employee or agent
90.04   or trap                                                                $100
(A)
§
90.04   Concealment of animal for the purpose of evading ordinance             $100
(B)
§      Bird sanctuaries
90.06      Failure to obtain license (Note: penalty waived upon payment and $100
        registration of license)
        Animals running at large
           Failure to obtain license (Note: penalty waived upon payment and $100
§      registration of license)
90.07      First violation                                                  $100
           Second violation                                                 $300
           Third and subsequent violations                                  $500
        Public nuisance
§         First violation                                                  $100
90.08      Second violation                                                 $300
           Third and subsequent violations                                  $500
        Failure to confine and control
§         First violation                                                  $100
90.09      Second violation                                                 $300
           Third and subsequent violations                                  $500
§      Vicious animals                                                        $500
90.10
§      Animal fighting and baiting                                            $500
90.11
        Mistreatment of animals
§         First violation                                                  $100
90.12      Second violation                                                 $300
           Third and subsequent violations                                  $500
§      Injury of animal–Notice required
90.14      First violation                                                  $250
§      Security dog identification requirements                               $50
90.17
§
90.19   Keeping wild animals without permit                                    $100
(A)
§
90.20   Rabies vaccination tag and certificate                                 $100
(B)
§
90.20   Rabies confinement for observation                                     $200
(D)
§
90.20   Release of suspected rabid animal                                      $200
(H)
        Failure to obtain breeding permit
§         First violation                                                  $100
90.21      Second violation                                                 $150
           Third violation                                                  $200
§§
90.35   Failure to sterilize adopted animal                                    $500
through
90.42
§      Keeping stray animal; injury of animal–Notice required               $100
90.43
§§    Regulation of high volume breeders and retailers
90.55      Failure to obtain permit                                         $500
through    Violation of permit standard                                     $200
90.63
        Violation of additional requirements for dog breeders and dog retailers who
§      are maintaining facilities in violation
90.64      Failure to obtain breeder/kennel permit
           First violation                                                  $200
           Second violation                                                 $500
 
(Ord. passed 10-21-2010)
CHAPTER 91: MODEL AIRCRAFT; UNMANNED AIRCRAFT
Section
   
91.01   Model aircraft and unmanned aircraft on town property
   
91.02   Release, indemnification and assumption of risk
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Definition of “model aircraft”, see G.S. § 15A-300.1
   Permit required for commercial operation of unmanned aircraft systems, see
G.S. § 63-96
   Regulation of launch and recovery sites, see G.S. § 15A-300.2
   Restrictions on use of unmanned aircraft systems, see G.S. § 15A-300.1
§ 91.01 MODEL AIRCRAFT AND UNMANNED AIRCRAFT ON TOWN PROPERTY.
   (A)    Launch and/or recovery of model aircraft or unmanned aircraft is
prohibited on all town- owned property without specific written permission from
the Mayor or his or her designee, who may allow it for governmental purposes to
include, but not be limited to, photography, so long as the operation of the
model aircraft or unmanned aircraft is done in accordance with the requirements
of the Federal Aviation Administration and North Carolina General Statutes.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      MODEL AIRCRAFT. An aircraft, including any contrivance now known, or
hereafter invented, used or designed for navigation of or flight in the air,
that is mechanically driven or launched into flight and that meets all of the
following requirements:
         (a)    Is flown for hobby or recreational purposes; and
         (b)   Is not used for payment, consideration, gratuity or benefit,
directly or indirectly charged, demanded, received or collected, by any person
for the use of the aircraft or any photographic or video image produced by the
aircraft.
      UNMANNED AIRCRAFT. An aircraft, including any contrivance now known, or
hereafter invented, used or designed for navigation of or flight in the air
that is operated without the possibility of human intervention from within or
on the aircraft and that does not meet the definition of “model aircraft”.
(Ord. AL2016-06-2, passed 6-13-2016) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 RELEASE, INDEMNIFICATION AND ASSUMPTION OF RISK.
   The release, indemnification and assumption of risk form is as follows:
 
In consideration for being allowed to participate in the below described activity, I, the undersigned, do hereby release, indemnify and hold harmless THE TOWN OF STOKESDALE, and its employees, officers, volunteers and agents, (hereinafter “town”) from any and all claims for
personal injury, death, property damage, liabilities and costs, including attorney’s fees, or any other claims or demands, whether past, present or future, in connection with the operation of a model aircraft and/or unmanned aircraft.
I understand that there are risks associated with this activity, such as physical injury, disfigurement, temporary or permanent disability, death or economic loss, and damage to property, that these injuries or outcomes may arise from my own or other’s actions, inactions or
negligence, or the condition of the activity location(s) or facility(ies). Nonetheless, I hereby assume any and all risks and responsibilities for hazards associated with the operation of a model aircraft and/or unmanned aircraft.
I hereby acknowledge and agree that I am familiar with and will comply with all state laws and Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) rules and regulations, to and including, but not limited to, having any required registration, license or certificate to operate a model aircraft
and/or unmanned aircraft.
I have read this document, I am signing it freely, and I understand the legal consequences of signing this document, including:
   (a)   Releasing and indemnifying the town from all liability;
   (b)   Waiving my right to sue the town; and
   (c)   Assuming all risks of participating in this activity.
                                                                                                                                           
Signature                           Date
                                                                   
Print Name
                                                                   
                                                                   
Address
                                                                   
Phone
                                                                   
Email
 
Model Aircraft and/or Unmanned Aircraft Information:
                                                                                                                                            
Make/Model                        FAA Registration Number
                                                                   
Manufacturer Serial Number
 
 
(Ord. AL2016-06-2, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any violation of §
91.01 of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $50.
(Ord. AL2016-06-2, passed 6-13-2016)
CHAPTER 92: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
Nuisances
   
92.01   Conditions declared nuisances
   
92.02   Notice; order to abate
   
92.03   Abatement by town; costs
**** NUISANCES ****
§ 92.01 CONDITIONS DECLARED NUISANCES.
   The existence of any of the following conditions on any lot, whether
improved or not, or other parcel of land within the corporate limits is hereby
declared to be dangerous and prejudicial to the public health or safety and to
constitute a public nuisance:
   (A)   Growth of weeds and grass. The uncontrolled growth of noxious weeds or
grass causing or threatening to cause a hazard detrimental to the public health
or safety;
   (B)   Accumulations of animal or vegetable matter. Any accumulation of
animal or vegetable matter that is offensive by virtue of odors or vapors or by
the inhabitation therein of rats, mice, snakes or vermin of any kind which is
or may be dangerous or prejudicial to the public health;
   (C)   Accumulations of rubbish. Any accumulation of rubbish, trash or junk
causing or threatening to cause a fire hazard, causing or threatening to cause
the accumulation of stagnant water or causing or threatening to cause the
inhabitation therein of rats, mice, snakes or vermin of any kind which is or
may be dangerous or prejudicial to the public health;
   (D)   Conditions violating Health Department rules. Any condition
detrimental to the public health which violates the rules and regulations of
the county’s Health Department;
   (E)   Burned or partially burned buildings and structures. Any building or
other structure which has been burned, partially burned or otherwise partially
destroyed and which is unsightly or hazardous to the safety of any person, is a
continuing fire hazard or which is structurally unsound to the extent that the
town’s Building Official can reasonably determine that there is a likelihood of
personal or property injury to any person or property entering the premises;
   (F)   Storm or erosion damaged structures and resulting debris. The
existence of any of the following conditions associated with storm-damaged or
erosion-damaged structures or their resultant debris shall constitute a public
nuisance:
      (1)   Damaged structure in danger of collapsing;
      (2)   Damaged structure or debris from damaged structures where it can
reasonably be determined that there is a likelihood of personal or property
injury; and
      (3)   Any structure, regardless of condition, or any debris from damaged
structure which is located in whole or in part in a public trust area or public
land.
   (G)   Structurally deteriorated, or storm damaged automobile service station
canopies. Any automobile service station canopy with loose, unanchored or
missing cladding, or fascia panels prone to progressive collapse, or
structurally unsound members damaged by storms, vehicles or deterioration;
   (H)   Dangerous or vicious animals. The keeping of a dangerous or vicious
animal as defined in §
90.01 of this code of ordinances;
   (I)   Graffiti. Any unauthorized inscription, word, figure, painting or
other defacement that is written, marked, etched, scratched, sprayed, drawn,
painted or engraved on or otherwise affixed to any surface of public or private
property by any implement, to the extent that graffiti was not authorized in
advance by the owner or occupant of the property or, despite advance
authorization, is otherwise deemed a public nuisance; and
   (J)   Miscellaneous. Any other condition that is specified as a nuisance in
this subchapter.
(Ord. 67, passed 11-15-2007) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.02 NOTICE; ORDER TO ABATE.
   (A)   Upon a determination that conditions constituting a public nuisance
exist, the Town Clerk shall notify, in writing, the owner, the occupant or the
person in possession of the premises in question of the conditions constituting
such public nuisance and shall order the prompt abatement thereof within 15
days from the receipt of such written notice. Receipt shall be deemed to occur
on the third day after the date of the postmark if the notice is deposited in a
United States Post Office.
   (B)   Abatement of a public nuisance shall consist of taking whatever
appropriate steps are reasonably necessary to remove the condition or
conditions which result in the declaration of a public nuisance. Without
limitation, the Town Clerk ordering the abatement of a public nuisance may
require the removal of debris, rubbish; accumulations of animal or vegetable
matter, growth of weeds and grass, burned or partially burned buildings, the
isolation of the condition to be abated so that access cannot be gained by
persons or property which may be injured by the nuisance, the removal or
effective obscuring of graffiti or such other steps which are reasonably
necessary to abate the nuisance.
(Ord. 67, passed 11-15-2007)
§ 92.03 ABATEMENT BY TOWN; COSTS.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   If any person, having been ordered to abate a public nuisance,
fails, neglects or refuses to abate or remove the condition constituting the
nuisance within 15 days from receipt of the notice and order given pursuant to
§
92.02 of this chapter, the Town Clerk shall cause such condition to be removed
or otherwise remedied by having employees of the town or independent
contractors go upon such premises and remove or otherwise abate such nuisance
under the supervision of an officer or employee designated by the Town Clerk.
When abating graffiti, in no case shall the town paint or repair any area
obscured by graffiti more extensively than where the graffiti itself is located
and the town shall not be required to restore the obscured area to its original
condition including, but not limited to, color or texture.
      (2)   Any person who has been ordered to abate a public nuisance may,
within the time allowed by this subchapter, request the town in writing to
remove such condition, the cost of which shall be paid by the person making
such request.
      (3)   If a local contractor cannot be obtained after a reasonable effort,
the Town Clerk shall be authorized to obtain the services of a contractor
outside the immediate local area and the costs thereof shall be deemed to be
reasonable.
   (B)   Costs. The actual cost incurred by the town in removing or otherwise
remedying a public nuisance shall be charged to the owner, occupant or person
in possession of such lot or parcel of land; and it shall be the duty of the
finance officer to mail a statement of such charges to the owner or other
person in possession of such premises with instructions that such charges are
due and payable within 30 days from the mailing thereof. If such costs charged
in accordance with this section are not paid as stated in this section, the
costs shall be a lien upon the land or premises where the nuisance arose or
occurred. A lien established pursuant to this division (B) shall have the same
priority and be collected as unpaid ad valorem taxes as provided for in G.S. §
16A-193.
(Ord. 67, passed 11-15-2007)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
[Reserved]
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   PROHIBITED ACTIVITY
CHAPTER 130: PROHIBITED ACTIVITY
Section
   
130.01   Loitering for purpose of drug-related activity
   
130.02   Noise
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 LOITERING FOR PURPOSE OF DRUG-RELATED ACTIVITY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC PLACE means any area available
to the public for common usage and access, including any street, sidewalk,
bridge, alley or alleyway, plaza, park, playground, driveway, parking lot or
transportation facility or the doorways, entranceways, stairway, staircase,
hall, roof, elevator, courtyard, passageway or common area to any building
which fronts on any of those places or any motor vehicle in or on any of those
places or any property owned by the town.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a person to remain or wander about in a
public place in a manner and under circumstances manifesting the intent to
engage in a violation of any subdivision of the state’s Controlled Substance
Act, G.S. Ch. 90, Art. 5. Such circumstances shall include the following when
done for the purpose of violating the aforementioned state statutes:
      (1)   Repeatedly beckoning to, stopping or attempting to stop passers-by
or repeatedly attempting to engage passers-by in conversation;
      (2)   Repeatedly stopping or attempting to stop motor vehicles;
      (3)   Repeatedly interfering with the free passage of other persons;
      (4)   Such person behaves in such a manner as to raise a reasonable
suspicion that he or she is about to engage in or is engaging in an unlawful
drug-related activity;
      (5)   Such person repeatedly passes to or receives from passers-by,
whether on foot, in a vehicle or by courier, money or objects;
      (6)   Such person takes flight upon the approach or appearance of a law
enforcement officer; or
      (7)   Such person is at a location frequented by persons who unlawfully
use, possess or sell drugs.
(Ord. 55, passed 8-19-2004) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 NOISE.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of this section, it shall be unlawful for
any person, persons or business entity to make, permit, continue or cause to be
made, any unreasonably loud, disturbing, annoying or unnecessary noise in the
town, with the exception of construction work done pursuant to a federal,
state, county or city contract which requires work to be performed during
certain hours.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      DISTURBING. Noise which is perceived by a person of ordinary
sensibilities as interrupting the normal peace or good order.
      UNNECESSARY. Any excessive or unusually loud sound or any sound which is
of such character, intensity and duration as to disturb the peace and quiet of
any neighborhood or which disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose,
health, peace of safety of any person, and being a type of sound which could be
lessened or otherwise controlled by the maker without unduly restricting his or
her conduct.
      UNREASONABLY LOUD OR ANNOYING. Noise which is substantially incompatible
with the time and location where created to the extent that it creates an
actual or imminent interference with peace or good order.
   (C)   In determining whether a noise is unreasonably loud, annoying,
disturbing or unnecessary, the following factors incident to such noise are to
be considered: time of day; proximity to residential structures; whether the
noise is recurrent, intermittent or constant; the volume and intensity; whether
the noise has been enhanced in volume or range by any type of electronic or
mechanical means; the operation of a business or other activity or is the
result of some use for individual purposes and whether the noise is subject to
being controlled without unreasonable effort or expense to the creator thereof.
A continuing or non-resetting audible burglar or fire alarm shall not be
considered a violation of this section.
   (D)   (1)   The following acts are declared to be loud, disturbing, annoying
and unnecessary noises in violation of this section, but this enumeration shall
not be deemed to be exclusive:
         (a)   Blowing horns. The sounding of any horn, whistle or signal
device on any automobile, motorcycle, bus or other vehicle or railroad train,
except as a danger signal or as required by law, so as to create any
unreasonably loud, disturbing or annoying sound as defined above, or the
sounding of such device and/or an unnecessary and/or unreasonable period of
time;
         (b)   Radios, stereos and the like. The playing of any radio
television set, record player, stereo or other sound reproduction system,
musical instrument or sound-producing or sound-amplifying device on the
premises of any dwelling, hate or motel room in such manner or with such
volume, particularly, but not limited to, the hours between 11:00 p.m. and 7:00
a.m. as to be an unreasonably loud annoying, disturbing or unnecessary manner,
as defined above. A presumption is created that the noise is unreasonably loud,
annoying, disturbing and unnecessary if the sound generated is audible at a
distance of 30 feet or more from the dwelling’s property line, or from the
unit’s most outer boundary wall in the case of a hotel or motel room;
         (c)   Sound-producing equipment in vehicles. The playing of any radio,
cassette player, compact disc, videotape or disc or other similar device for
reproducing sound located on or in any motor vehicle on a public street,
highway, within any public vehicular area, within the motor vehicular area of
any public or private parking lot or park or on the premises of a private
residence in an unreasonably loud, annoying, disturbing or unnecessary manner,
as defined above. A presumption is created that the sound thus created is
unreasonably loud, annoying, disturbing and unnecessary if the sound generated
or noise vibration therefrom is audible or can be felt at a distance of 30 feet
or more from the radio, cassette player, compact disc, video tape or disc or
other similar device that is producing the sound;
         (d)   Animals. The keeping of any animal or bird which, by causing
frequent or long continued noise, shall disturb the comfort and repose of any
person in the vicinity such that the noise and/or disturbance constitutes a
continuing and constant pattern of disturbance to neighboring residences and/or
citizens. This shall not apply to animals housed on bona fide farms pursuant to
legitimate and designed uses of such farms;
         (e)   Operation of vehicles. The operation of any automobile,
motorcycle or vehicles in such a manner as to create loud or unnecessary
grating, grinding, rattling, screeching of tires or other noise;
         (f)   Blowing whistles. The blowing of any steam whistle attached to
any steam boiler in an unreasonably loud, annoying, disturbing or unnecessary
manner as defined above, except as a warning of danger;
         (g)   Exhaust discharge. The discharge into the open of the exhaust of
any steam engine, stationary internal combustion engine, or motor vehicle,
except through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent
unnecessarily loud, annoying, disturbing or unnecessary noises therefrom;
         (h)   Compressed air devices. The use of any mechanical device
operated by compressed air unless unreasonably loud, annoying disturbing or
unnecessary noise created thereby is effectively muffled and reduced;
         (i)   Noises to attract attention. The use of any drum, bell,
loudspeaker or other instrumentality for the purpose of attracting attention by
creation of noise to any performance, show, sale, display or advertisement of
merchandise. The use of explosives such as fireworks may also be a violation
where conducted at hours which interfere with the normal peace, calm and good
order of the neighborhood or when conducted without obtaining the proper
permissions, permits and the like;
         (j)   Hawking, peddling or soliciting. The shouting and crying of
peddlers, hawkers, vendors, which disturb the quiet and peace of the
neighborhood; and/or
         (k)   Loudspeakers or amplifiers. The use of any mechanical
loudspeakers or other mechanically amplified device within or from any
commercial establishment or private entertainment or recreational venue is
presumed to be unreasonably loud, annoying, disturbing and unnecessary if the
sound played or emitted may be heard at a distance from 30 feet or more of the
facility’s property line, between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
      (2)   In the interest of public safety and convenience, the following
activities are exempted from the application of this section:
         (a)   Emergency work made necessary to restore property to a safe
condition; emergency work required to protect persons or property from danger
or potential danger; or work by private or public utilities when restoring
utility services;
         (b)   Any Street construction activity performed by, or on behalf of,
a government agency on streets designated on the then current thoroughfare plan
as adopted county or state; provided that, all equipment is operated in
accordance with the manufacturer’s specifications and is equipped with all
legally required noise-reducing devices in proper operating condition. Blasting
and pile driving on streets projects are covered under this exemption only to
the extent that they are carried on between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00
p.m., Monday through Saturday;
         (c)   Noise arising from the premises of a bona fide farm or a farming
operation, as defined in G.S. § 153A-340, as a result of routine farming
activities necessary for the operation of the farm; and
         (d)   Noise originating from aircraft or from any activities conducted
upon property of the Piedmont Triad Airport Authority.
   (E)   An owner of any premises subject to this section who is not a current
occupant of the premises shall be responsible and subject to civil penalties,
but not criminal liability, for actions by tenants, guests or other licensees
which constitute violations of this section. Absentee owners must be notified
by personal service or certified mail of the first or previous violations that
have occurred within the previous 12-month period before a subsequent increased
civil penalty may be imposed.
(Ord. 59, passed 6-16-2005) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Noise regulation; authority, see G.S. § 160A-184
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   The town, in its discretion, may, through the Sheriff or anyone
designated in writing by the Town Council, take one or more of the following
enforcement actions for violations of § 131.02 of this chapter against any
responsible person, persons or business entity as stated in § 131.02(A) of this
chapter:
         (a)   Issue a warning; and/or
         (b)   Issue a citation subjecting a violator to a civil penalty of
$200. A second violation by the same person or business within one year of the
first violation shall subject such person or business to a penalty of $400. All
subsequent violations by the same person or business within one year of the
first violation shall subject such person or business to a civil penalty of
$500. The Town Council or its designee may on request and for good cause shown
adjust a civil penalty.
      (2)   Failure to pay a civil penalty imposed under this division (B)
within ten days shall subject the offender to an additional $50 delinquency
charge. Any unpaid penalty or delinquency charge may be recovered by the county
in a civil action in the nature of a debt.
      (3)   Failure to pay a civil penalty imposed under this division (B)
within ten days shall subject the offender to an additional $50 delinquency
charge. Any unpaid penalty or delinquency charge may be recovered by the county
in a civil action in the nature of a debt.
      (4)   Each separate day of a continued violation shall be a separate and
strict offense and shall give rise to a separate and distinct penalty.
      (5)   Violators may also prosecuted under the provisions of G.S. § 14-
4 for a misdemeanor criminal offense punishable by fine or not more than $500
and/or imprisonment as designated for a Class 3 misdemeanor.
      (6)   Section 130.02 of this chapter may also be enforced by civil action
for injunction and order of abatement.
      (7)   Section 130.02 of this chapter may be enforced by any remedy
authorized by G.S. § 160A-175, either severally or in conjunction with other
remedies.
(Ord. 59, passed 6-16-2005)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   FUTURE LAND USE PLAN
      
151.   LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE
CHAPTER 150: FUTURE LAND USE PLAN
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Preface
   
150.02   Location and geography
   
150.03   Town history
   
150.04   Vision statement
Land Use Plan Request
   
150.15   Generally
   
150.16   Plan Study Committee
   
150.17   Plan development process
   
150.18   Public participation
Plan Elements
   
150.30   Generally
   
150.31   Existing land use
   
150.32   Community facilities
   
150.33   Historic structures
   
150.34   Environment
   
150.35   Transportation
Land Use Plan
   
150.50   Generally
   
150.51   Town core
   
150.52   Professional/manufacturing corridor
   
150.53   Residential development area
   
150.54   Open space/trail system
   
150.55   Transportation
   
150.56   Scenic corridors
   
Appendix A:Stokesdale historic properties
   
Appendix B:Critical habitats
   
Appendix C:Future land use map
   
Appendix D:Land use plan implementation schedule
   
Appendix E:Traffic calming
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 150.01 PREFACE.
   The town was incorporated in 1989. In 1998, the Town Council adopted the
Northwest Area Plan, and began to implement and enforce a town development
ordinance. It became evident that the town needed to adopt a land use plan that
was specifically tailored to local issues and concerns. In keeping with this,
the Town Council appointed the first Land Use Plan Committee to develop the
future land use plan. The future land use plan was completed by the Committee
and adopted by the Town Council in September, 2001. With six years of growth
and development, the Town Council decided that the land use plan should be
reviewed and revised to reflect the changes that occurred since the original
plan was developed. Thus a second committee was formed in 2007 to produce this
version of the land use plan.
(Ord. passed 10-18-2007)
§ 150.02 LOCATION AND GEOGRAPHY.
   (A)   The town is located in the rolling upland of Northwest Guilford
County, North Carolina. It encompasses approximately 12,000 acres (21 square
miles) most of which is agricultural and low density residential in character.
The majority of the developed land is located along U.S. Highway 158, Highway
68, Haw River Road and in the town center. There are numerous small streams
that have created a generally rolling topography that increases as one travels
from east to west, with the most significant topography in the southwestern
corner of town.
   (B)   The town limits follow the county portion of the Stokesdale Fire
District. This area is bounded by Rockingham County to the north, U.S. 220 to
the east, the Haw River to the south and Forsyth County to the west.
   (C)    Three major highways intersect the town: U.S. Highway 158, Highway 68
and NC Highway 65. Part of the town borders a fourth major highway, U.S.
Highway 220 (future I-73). With this network of roads, town citizens are within
a short drive of Greensboro, High Point, Winston-Salem and Reidsville.
   (D)   Historically, the center of town was the railroad depot (site of the
current town fire station), located on Main Street in the town core. The
historic town center includes a mix of late nineteenth-century commercial and
residential structures, post WWII neighborhoods and more recently built
commercial buildings at the major intersections.
    (E)   U.S. Highway 158 is an important thoroughfare running through the
town. This road carries a significant amount of traffic from U.S. 220, on the
eastern edge of town, to High Point and Winston-Salem. There is a concentration
of industrial development along the eastern portion of U.S. 158 including Culp
Ticking, Lowes Home Improvement NC 158 (Main Street) Warehouse and Vulcan
Materials Quarry. North Carolina Highway 68 is the main north-south
thoroughfare through the town. A significant portion of this route has been
developed with new residential neighborh oods.
   (F)    The northweste rn portion of the county, including the town, has
become a popular place to live. Population figures for the town between 1990
and 2000 reveal an increase of 53% from 2,134 to 3,267 residents. This is
significant when compared to the 21% increase for all of the county in the same
decade. A comparison of more recent population figures from the “North Carolina
Office of Budget and Management, State Demographer, (October 2006)” shows that
the town has grown over 8.4% since the 2000 census. The county, as a whole, has
experienced an increased growth rate of less than 5%. Due to the popularity of
Northwest Guilford County, the population of the town is expected to continue
increasing at a more rapid rate than the county as a whole.
(Ord. passed 10-18-2007)
§ 150.03 TOWN HISTORY.
   (A)   The town was originally settled as the community of Green Pond or
later Pond and named for a swampy pond located near the present day
intersection of Ellisboro Road and NC Highway 65. In 1865, a post office opened
in the local general store to serve the rural community. The Cape Fear and
Yadkin Railroad was built through the community in 1886. As with many
transportation projects, the opening of the train depot in the town encouraged
residential settlement in the community and industrial development near the
rail line. It was also at this time that the name was changed from Pond to
Stokesdale. The name was in honor of a man named Stokes, who was either an
executive of the railroad, a conductor on the train or the surveyor who
surveyed the area for the railroad, depending on who you ask.
   (B)   The town first incorporated in 1907. The town went bankrupt during the
Great Depression and became inactive in the 1930s. The state revoked its
Charter in 1971. The town was re-incorporated on November 9, 1989.
(Ord. passed 10-18-2007)
§ 150.04 VISION STATEMENT.
   The town should be a town that is quiet and attractive that promotes the
small town nature of the community. Effort should be made to preserve, maintain
and enhance the rural character, natural habitat and beauty of the community.
There should be a sense of community through both formal and informal
association. Residential development should enhance the community through
appropriate neighborhood design, connectivity and environmental protection of
the town’s natural resources. The historic nature of the town, especially its
downtown, should be preserved and maintained through the addition of businesses
and services that cater to the citizens and are in harmony with existing
development. Effort should be made to create and enhance the sense of a vibrant
community that is safe and convenient for all citizens. The town should promote
alternative modes of transportation, including pedestrian, bicycle and
equestrian movement throughout the community.
(Ord. passed 10-18-2007)
**** LAND USE PLAN REQUEST ****
§ 150.15 GENERALLY.
   (A)   A land use plan is a method for the town to accommodate future growth
of the community. It provides the community a roadmap to guide growth so that
it occurs in a rational, predictable manner, to best suit the needs of current
and future citizens. The plan consists of the following elements: existing land
use, environmental constraints, transportation systems, historic preservation,
public utilities, community facilities, open space and recreation and future
land use. Specific goals were created from these elements that have been voiced
in the vision statement.
   (B)   The town is poised for growth in the 21st Century. Once an isolated
farming community, it is now located at the intersection of several major
highways that provide easy access to the growing cities of the Piedmont Triad.
The town has installed Phase I of a public water supply system. This, along
with its scenic beauty, good schools and high quality of life, will promote
continued residential and commercial growth in the community.
   (B)   With this understanding, the Town Council, on February 15, 2007,
appointed a Land Use Plan Review Committee to review and revise the current
plan which was adopted September 20, 2001.
(Ord. passed 10-18-2007)
§ 150.16 PLAN STUDY COMMITTEE.
   (A)   The Town Council adopted the County Northwest Area Plan in April 1998
as a land use planning tool. The Northwest Area Plan covered the entire
northwest area of the county, including the areas now incorporated as the Towns
of Stokesdale, Summerfield and Oak Ridge, along with the Colfax community. The
Town Council requested a more specific plan be developed to aid in land use
decisions for their town, one tailored to the specific interests, opportunities
and constraints of their community.
   (B)   In February 1999, the Town Council reviewed the applications of
citizens that had expressed a desire to serve on the Land Use Planning
Committee and subsequently appointed 11 applicants to serve on the first Land
Use Committee. When it was determined that an updated revision of the land use
was necessary, the Council appointed the following citizens to serve on the
Land Use Plan Review Committee on February 15, 2007:
 
Mr. John Flynt
Mrs. Mickie Holbrook
Mr. Tony Hommel
Mrs. Carolyn Joyner
Dr. Scott Lawrence
Mr. Richard Millard
Dr. Robert Wurz
 
   (C)   With the exception of Ms. Joyner, all were members of the original
Land Use Plan Committee. The current group includes two Council members, two
Planning Board members, along with three other members of the community.
   (D)   The County Planning and Development staff provided technical
assistance in revising the land use plan. Trevor Nuttal, County Planner and Les
Eger, AICP, Senior Planner, served as advisory staff. Curtis Short, GIS Mapping
Technician, provided support in developing the various maps and statistics used
in the development of the plan.
(Ord. passed 10-18-2007)
§ 150.17 PLAN DEVELOPMENT PROCESS.
   The Committee reviewed and revised each part of the plan over a series of
meetings. The Committee revised the plan considering recent trends and events
that have transpired in the development of the town with the intent of
maintaining the town vision. After the completion of the process, the revised
plan was presented to the Town Council for consideration.
(Ord. passed 10-18-2007)
§ 150.18 PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   A draft of the revision of the future land use plan was presented to
the Planning Board on August 2, 2007. Comments were made by the Planning Board
and some changes were suggested. The Board voted 5 to 0 to recommend the
adoption of the revised future land use plan to Town Council.
   (B)   The Town Council and the Planning Board held a joint public hearing on
the plan on August 18, 2007. A number of citizens voiced their concerns at the
meeting and written comments were also submitted. The Town Council made
revisions to the proposed future land use plan and adopted the plan as revised
on October 18, 2007.
(Ord. passed 10-18-2007)
**** PLAN ELEMENTS ****
§ 150.30 GENERALLY.
   Land use plans are comprised of a number of specific elements, or sections,
that provide the basic building blocks for a future land use plan. These
elements include existing land use, community facilities, historic structures,
environment and transportation.
(Ord. passed 10-18-2007)
 § 150.31 EXISTING LAND USE.
    The town is a predominantly rural community. There is a historic central
downtown, recently built low-density residential neighborhoods scattered
throughout, and industrial areas located mostly in the eastern area of town.
The following tables provide a detailed breakdown of the different existing
land uses and comparable zoning district classifications, by number of acres
and percentage of total area.
Land Use Area (Acres) Percent
Land Use              Area (Acres) Percent
Agricultural/vac ant  9,609        76.72%
Commercial            39.5         0.32%
Industrial            335          2.67%
Multi-family          38.3         0.31%
Office                11.7         0.09%
Other*                650.5        5.19%
Public/institutio nal 329.6        2.63%
Residential           1,510.6      12.06%
Total                 12,524.2     100.00%
Notes in Table:
*   LCID landfills and the buffer area around LNG facility
Data compiled by staff in March 2000
Zoning District 2000                 2007
                Area (Acres) Percent Area (Acres) Percent
Zoning District       2000                 2007
                      Area (Acres) Percent Area (Acres) Percent
Agricultural          9,583.81     76.52%  8,593.83     68.80%
Commercial            77.43        0.62%   113.53       .91%
Industrial            370.87       2.96%   365.31       2.92%
Office*               58.9         0.47%   73.02        .58%
Public/institutional  15.0         0.12%   15.52        .12%
Residential           2,416.33     19.29%  3,274.44     26.21%
Residential/mixed use                      55.64        .005%
Total                 12,524.2     100.00% 12,491.29    100.00
Notes in Table:
*   This includes the Retirement Community
Data provided by Guilford County Planning & Development GIS Section March
2007
 
   (A)   Agricultural/vacant. The predominant land use within the town is in
the agriculture/vacant category. This is clear by reviewing both the existing
land use and current zoning designations. Over 75% of the land is classified as
agricultural/vacant or zoned agricultural. The Pine Needles Liquid Natural Gas
facility, which is located in the south central part of the town, has a
significant buffer area, which must remain undeveloped to protect the community
in case of a catastrophic emergency. The buffer area makes up approximately 4%
of the land area of the town and must remain in permanent open space.
   (B)   Commercial/office. The majority of land being used for commercial
development is located in and around the town core area. This includes the
intersections of U.S. 158 and NC 68, U.S. 158 and NC 65, and along Main Street
(U.S. 158). There has been an increase in commercial development along U.S. 158
east of downtown, interspersed among industrial developments. There has been an
increase in slightly over 36 acres of property that has been changed to the
commercial zoning district since 2000. Less than 1% of the total land area is
being used for commercial development. Commercial development has seen a surge
in growth in the last five years.
   (C)   Industrial. The town has approximately 3% of its land area being used
or zoned for industrial development. These areas are located along U.S. 158 in
the eastern portion of town with large companies such as Culp Ticking, Vulcan
Materials Quarry, APAC Carolina and RMC Carolina. It should be noted that there
is a significant amount of land zoned for industrial use in the town, and ample
opportunities for industrial development to remain in existing industrial
areas. The Stokesdale Business Center (Formerly Four Seasons Apparel ), which
is located in the town core along Ellisboro Street, is zoned for industrial
use, has been converted into a business office complex with various occupants.
Lowes Home Improvement Warehouse occupies the former Burlington Industries
Building on U.S. 158. A new business park has been established on B&G Court
next to Culp Ticking and businesses such as Terminix, Mini-Storage Warehouses
and other warehouse facilities are locating there.
   (D)   Public/institutional. This designation includes public buildings,
places of worship, recreation areas, both public and private. Approximately
2.5% of the town falls within this designation. The largest areas are the
community parks located on McCrory Road and the Dawn Acres Golf Course located
along NC 68. Institutional uses, i.e., churches, the fire station and post
office, often serve dual purposes by offering various forms of recreation and
community focus beyond their primary function. Oak Springs Baptist Church has
purchased approximately 50 acres which was rezoned as a PDM district with a
variety of uses being planned for the parcel including a church facility,
recreational areas, retirement center, a library and educational buildings. The
town has purchased 25 acres of land and plans to develop a town hall complex
and a park area with recreational areas with playgrounds, soccer fields and a
walking track.
   (E)   Residential.
      (1)   Residential development makes up approximately 12% of the land
area. The majority of this is low-density, single-family residents. One
exception is the Countryside Village Retirement Community located on U.S. 158.
The majority of the residentially used and zoned property is located along the
NC 68 corridor, in the town core area, and along Athens Road and Southard Road.
Major residential subdivisions have been added along Haw River Road, Ellison
Road, Angel Pardue Road and Belews Creek Road.
      (2)   Except in the town core, homes are on large lots that cover an acre
or more. This is because there is no public sewer service available and
significant area must be available for septic drain fields on each lot.
(Ord. passed 10-18-2007)
§ 150.32 COMMUNITY FACILITIES.
   (A)   Schools.
      (1)   Children in the town attend a number of public and private schools
in the northwest part of the county. Stokesdale Elementary located in the
southeast corner of the U.S. 158 and NC 68 intersection is the only public
school located within the corporate limits of the town. Students attend
Northwest Middle and Northwest High School for their secondary education,
located in the unincorporated county.
      (2)   There are no private schools located within the town; however,
there are a number of private schools located in the northwest and in
Greensboro that children in the town attend. It is unknown how many children
attend these schools.
      (3)   There are also a number of small day care centers that provide
services for working families with young children.
   (B)   Public safety.
      (1)   The Fire Department is a volunteer company of 30+ volunteers
operating out of a new fire station located in downtown across from the town
hall. This station serves not only the incorporated town, but also the fire
district, which includes areas in, and Rockingham Counties.
      (2)   The County Sheriff’s Department provides police protection to the
town through an intergovernmental agreement. This includes a full-time deputy
assigned to the town. Within the past year, the town has purchased a radar gun
to facilitate traffic enforcement.
      (3)   The town and the American Red Cross have established a plan for an
emergency shelter for the community. The location is at the Stokesdale United
Methodist in the town core. When needed, local Red Cross volunteers operate the
emergency shelter.
   (C)   Places of worship. Area churches include denominations of Baptist,
United Methodist and Disciples of Christ as well as other denominations and
faiths both within the town and beyond the borders of the town that serve the
needs of the community through a variety of services and clubs.
   (D)   Recreation.
      (1)   One community park, two walking tracks and the school grounds that
are used for recreation serve the town. The community park is located on 20
acres of land on McCrory Road in the West Fall development. A paved walking
track is available at the Stokesdale Elementary School; the other is located on
the Vulcan Materials, Inc. property. Dawn Acres Golf Course is a private
facility located at the intersection of NC 68 and Haw River Road.
      (2)   While not located within the town, Belews Lake is located just west
of town. Owned by Duke Power, Inc., this site is very popular during the summer
for many forms of recreation, including boating, fishing and swimming. Many
visitors to Belews Lake travel through the town on their way to and from the
lake.
(Ord. passed 10-18-2007)
§ 150.33 HISTORIC STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Originally founded as a small farming community, there are old
farmhouses, tobacco barns and other farm structures that still exist throughout
the rural areas of the town although their numbers are rapidly declining over
time. In 1994, the Historic Architecture Inventory for the county was
completed. A full listing of historic structures in the town is provided in
Appendix A. The town is fortunate to have numerous examples of late nineteenth
century and early twentieth century commercial and residential structures.
These structures provide a visual connection between the past and present. The
plan recognizes the importance of these structures and encourages property
owners to protect these historic buildings through preservation and
rehabilitation.
   (B)   The business development of the town creates a small, well-defined
commercial core along Main Street (U.S. 158). These structures provide a
classic example of small town commercial architecture. The majority of the
buildings are built of red brick with little ornamentation, yet with the
classic design of nineteenth century commercial buildings. While some of the
buildings are in various states of disrepair, redevelopment projects are
underway.
   (C)   Downtown also has a significant number of historic residential
structures, mainly located along Stokesdale Street, Main Street and Ellisboro
Road. Structures range from Queen Anne Victorian gingerbread houses to the more
restrained locally adapted arts and crafts bungalows. A number of these
structures are under renovation by owners interested in preservation. Both the
commercial and residential structures provide a link to the past, one in which
businesses and residences were in close proximity to one another and where
businesses provided services and employment to the community.
(Ord. passed 10-18-2007)
§ 150.34 ENVIRONMENT.
   (A)   Sewage disposal. 
      (1)   The town does not have a public sewerage treatment system. For this
reason, development is limited by the need for individual on-site sewer
disposal systems (septic systems). The current ordinance requires all lots not
served by public water and sewer to be at least 30,000 square feet. This
requirement makes three-quarter to one-acre lot sizes to be the norm in the
town. Some new residential developments have used community well systems, but
none have used community septic systems. The County Health Department can
approve the small disposal systems; the State Department of Environment and
Natural Resources must approve the larger ones.
      (2)   Due to the limitations of septic systems, soil types are important
when determining suitable locations for development. The USDA Soil Conservation
Service developed a county-wide soils map in 1977. This study provided staff
the information necessary to classify the general soil types by the ability to
percolate for septic fields. There are no soils in the town that are classified
as good for septic fields. A significant portion of the town does have moderate
soils. There are also a number of areas that are considered severe for septic
systems. These include areas along the floodplains and creeks of the town and
areas of high clay content. Many of these soils are located in the southwest
corner of the town.
   (B)   Water system. Currently, all residents and commercial developments
have private or community well systems or use the municipal water system that
was completed in July, 2003 after the town received a $3,000,000 grant from
North Carolina Department of Environmental Health and Natural Resources
(NCDENR). Winston-Salem is providing a maximum of 300,000 gallons of water per
day through an inter-basin transfer allowance agreement. Approximately 250
households and businesses are currently being served with public water. The
waterlines follow U.S. 158 from the Forsyth County line through downtown to
Patricia Drive on the eastern side of the town. The system also extends to the
north and south on NC 68 from the U.S. 158 intersection with numerous
waterlines reaching homes and businesses that are located on roads along the
route.
   (C)   Groundwater contamination. A town environmental constraints survey
indicated that there are eight contaminated well sites along the old railroad
bed and U.S. 158. Leaking underground gasoline storage tanks and
(Ethyldibromide) EDB caused the contamination. In all cases, the County and
State Environmental Health Departments have investigated and worked with the
owners on remediation efforts. The drilling of new wells within 1,500 feet of
contamination sites requires County Health Department approval. Due to this
contamination, the town sought and received the grant to develop a public water
system.
   (D)   Watershed. The town does not have its own watershed requiring
protection for a public water system. A portion of the town, however, drains
into two public water systems, the Dan River and Troublesome Creek watersheds.
Almost 30% of the land area of the town (3,600 acres) is located within these
two watersheds. The environmental constraints map in the original land use plan
shows the location of the watersheds along the northern border of the town. The
development ordinance regulations (national storm discharge elimination system
and the water supply watershed) require either a low density option of two
dwelling units per one acre or less with 0% to 24% built-upon area or a high
density option of two dwelling units per one acre with a 24.01% to 50% built-
upon area.
   (E)   Floodplain. Three perennial streams in the town have mapped 100-year
floodplains. A floodplain is the channel and the relatively flat area adjoining
the channel of a stream or river that periodically floods. The three mapped
floodplains are found on King’s Creek (western area of town), Troublesome Creek
(northeastern area and Reidsville Watershed) and the Haw River (southeastern
border of town). These floodplains make up approximately 5% of the total land
area of the town. Construction within the floodplain can obstruct stream flows
during flooding and increase flood damage. Preserving the floodplains and
limiting activities to those with the least negative impacts, such as
recreation, parking and garden areas, can reduce potential flood plain damage.
For this reason, the development ordinance requires the dedication of
floodplain, as public open space, as development occurs. For many years, the
county’s and town’s intent has been to link these dedicated areas to create a
system of greenways.
   (G)   Critical habitats. A joint report of the county and the North Carolina
Natural Heritage Foundation has identified three critical habitat areas of
general importance to the community. The largest is the King’s Creek Slopes
located along King’s Creek near Belews Lake. This is a mixed hardwood forest
with American Shinleaf, Showy Orchids and the regionally rare Waterleaf. The
other sites, Pearman’s Quarry Woods and Anthony Road Holler are both located in
the western part of the town. These two sites include Dry-Mesic and Mesic mixed
hardwood forests and American Shinleaf (see
Appendix B).
(Ord. passed 10-18-2007)
§ 150.35 TRANSPORTATION.
   Existing and future land uses within the town have been, and will continue
to be, impacted by its road network. By following the town’s thoroughfare plan,
adopted in 1998, and carefully guiding connections as development occurs, the
road network will be able to accommodate the level of service required for
existing and future travel needs within and across its jurisdiction.
   (A)   Road classification and current transportation improvement program
plans. The Stokesdale Transportation Network consists of four street
classifications.
      (1)   Freeways (proposed U.S. 220/ NC 68 Connector (I-73). Adjacent to
the town’s eastern boundary, this facility will function to serve regional
needs by connecting the Piedmont Triad with Southern Virginia. This facility
will have significant land use impacts along existing U.S. 220 at its
intersection with U.S. 158. Freeways are usually limited access, divided
highways. Their overall function is to move traffic on a regional basis.
      (2)   Thoroughfares (U.S. 158, NC 68, NC 65 and Haw River Road). 
         (a)   Proposed U.S. 158 bypass; this proposed project would provide
safer, more efficient east-west travel around downtown. The project is proposed
to begin east of downtown and connect with the existing U.S. 158 west of
downtown. The project is not yet scheduled for construction with the State
Transportation Improvement Program (TIP). The bypass route is currently under
study by NC Department of Transportation.
         (b)   Thoroughfares connect freeways to collector streets and provide
for movement of high volumes of traffic by limiting access to adjoining
properties.
      (3)   Collector streets (Eversfield Road and Anthony Road). Collectors
carry traffic from local roads and provide access to thoroughfares.
      (4)   Local streets. These streets carry all local traffic to collector
routes. This includes roads not classified on one of the higher systems. They
are usually shorter segments found in residential subdivisions as cul-de-sacs,
loop streets and streets serving less than 100 dwelling units.
   (B)   Hazardous intersections. The town currently has two recognizable
hazardous intersections that were identified in the future land use plan. The
first was located at Ellisboro Road and NC 65; the second was at the
intersection of NC 65 and NC 68. NCDOT has installed stoplights at both
locations in an effort to improve traffic safety at these locations.
(Ord. passed 10-18-2007)
**** LAND USE PLAN ****
§ 150.050 GENERALLY.
   (A)   The town will achieve this vision through the recognition and
enhancement of existing land uses along with the implementation of the
recommended future land use pattern. These areas are recognized as the town
core, professional/manufacturing corridor and residential area. Additionally,
the implementation of scenic corridors and proposed open space/trail network,
and transportation system improvements will further advance this vision (see
Appendix C). A future land use plan implementation schedule identifies
objectives and a timeframe for accomplishing them is included (
Appendix D).
   (B)   In developing the plan, the following considerations were made:
      (1)   Provide enough viable space for future growth of businesses and
services;
      (2)   Minimize sprawl of commercial development and ensure new commercial
development maintains the land use plan vision;
      (3)   Minimize the visual impact of large residential developments; and
      (4)   It is the goal of the town to promote the rural character of the
town including along the NC 68 corridor and U.S. 158. However, this goal will
not in any way prohibit commercial/retail development in these areas by
landowners who wish to seek same pursuant to applicable state laws and city
ordinances.
(Ord. passed 10-18-2007)
§ 150.51 TOWN CORE.
   (A)   The town core is defined as the area bordered by Highways NC 68, NC 65
and NC 158; area within the scenic corridor south of NC 158 between NC 68 and
NC 65; certain additional areas bordering NC 65 and NC 158 as shown on the land
use map.
   (B)   The plan recognizes the town core as a center of commerce and social
activity that will continue to serve the demands of the town’s growing
population while maintaining its historical small town appeal. The plan
accommodates this through a mixture of commercial, business, institutional and
residential uses accompanied by public open spaces. It is important to have
space for businesses within the town and also to limit the sprawl of such
businesses. To encourage this, the plan recognizes and recommends the following
within the town core:
      (1)   Development of retail businesses and professional office space;
      (2)   Provide innovative housing types, such as second floor apartments;
      (3)   Reduce and/or share parking to the side or rear of structures;
      (4)   Match setbacks for new structures to prevailing setbacks;
      (5)   Promote walkability through the construction of sidewalks
connecting residential, commercial and public open space areas;
      (6)   Improve aesthetics through the use of monument or awning signs,
flower box plantings, parking buffers and street tree plantings;
      (7)   Calm traffic through street tree plantings, crosswalks and speed
limit reductions (see
Appendix E);
      (8)   Provide public open space areas through the development of a linear
town park and a trail for equestrian, pedestrian and bicycle uses connecting
into surrounding neighborhoods and trails;
      (9)   Pass ordinances enabling the condemnation and removal of unsafe and
nuisance structures;
      (10)   Encourage the preservation and restoration of historic structures
and investigate the feasibility of establishing a historic district;
      (11)   Development of the town hall and community park at the site near
the Stokesdale Elementary School;
      (12)   Planned unit development, residential: revise the ordinances to
discourage single- family detached homes and review the requirements for
attached housing to make sure they fit the vision; and
      (13)   Amend watershed regulations as advised by the county to allow more
built upon area (BUA) in town core.
(Ord. passed 10-18-2007)
§ 150.52 PROFESSIONAL/MANUFACTURING CORRIDOR.
   (A)   The professional/manufacturing corridor is planned to provide an area
for the growth of office space and light manufacturing services that is
consistent with current uses. This corridor would start at the eastern edge of
the town core on U.S. 158, follow U.S. 158 east and terminate at the
intersection of U.S. 158 and U.S. 220. The northern and southern borders of the
professional/manufacturing corridor are identical to the borders of the scenic
corridor. Currently this portion of U.S. 158 contains industrial, highway
business, office, residential and agricultural areas. No new industrial areas
are proposed due to the number of areas currently zoned but undeveloped.
   (B)   The plan recommends that the town extend its eastern city limits to
the intersection of U.S. 158 and U.S. 220. This expansion will allow consistent
development within this area.
(Ord. passed 10-18-2007)
§ 150.53 RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT AREA.
   (A)   Within the residential area, the plan recommends preserving the town’s
rural setting by establishing a uniform residential density.
   (B)   To achieve this, the following standards are recommended:
      (1)   Minimum lot size of 40,000 square feet;
      (2)   Increase natural buffers along perimeter roads and entrances into
major developments. Increase buffers and protection along creeks and waterways;
      (3)   Plan for interconnected residential development through street and
trail links; and
      (4)   Eliminate the use of Planned Unit Development – Residential (PDR)
outside the town core.
(Ord. passed 10-18-2007)
§ 150.54 OPEN SPACE/TRAIL SYSTEM.
   (A)   With growth, the town will lose some of its rural character and open
space areas. The plan recommends providing additional recreational
opportunities in the form of community parks and trails, to supplement existing
resources. As shown on the future land use map, a linear park is proposed along
Stokesdale Street. This park will serve to improve main street aesthetics and
provide a connection within the proposed town trail system. Throughout the town
core, efforts should be made to provide connections to this park.
   (B)   The community park and town hall is adjacent to Stokesdale Elementary
School. This community park will serve both the town and the school by
providing areas for active and passive recreation. As shown on the future land
use map, proposed trail systems are recommended to connect with this park. The
plan recommends that the town develop this park with all possible speed.
   (C)   The town should actively plan and prepare funding for further park
purchases in cooperation with the state, county or non-profit entities.
   (D)   In order to interconnect the town, encouragement of pedestrian/bicycle
activity and allow for safe equestrian-movement, trails are recommended
throughout the town. For the most part, these trails will follow floodplain
areas or abandoned railway alignments. In order to achieve north-south
connections, the plan proposes two trails outside these areas. Development of
this system will be through either voluntary or required dedication during the
development of new residential or commercial properties. Finally, the plan
recommends protecting areas considered critical habitats from any future
development. These sites are located in the western and southwestern areas of
the town. Should growth occur in these areas, habitat protection strategies
should be included in the development proposals.
   (E)   The town should partner with the county to identify and preserve open
space parcels in the town.
(Ord. passed 10-18-2007)
§ 150.55 TRANSPORTATION.
   (A)   Existing and future land uses within the town will continue to be
impacted by its road network. The town’s thoroughfare plan was adopted in 1998
and may no longer map a road network that will be able to accommodate the level
of service required for safe and efficient travel within and across the
jurisdiction.
   (B)   The major recommendations of the LUP transportation plan are as
follows:
      (1)   The town should help develop and adopt a street connector plan to
guide future growth. The town should re-evaluate the current thoroughfare plan;
      (2)   The town should monitor and influence the DOT’s U.S. 158 bypass
study and make necessary planning decisions to minimize its impact on
landowners and homeowners; and
      (3)   The town should support the construction of I-73.
(Ord. passed 10-18-2007)
§ 150.56 SCENIC CORRIDORS.
   (A)   The town must enforce strict compliance to the scenic corridor
ordinance to maintain and enhance the aesthetic quality of the town as viewed
from its major thoroughfares. These corridors extend 900 feet on either side of
the town’s major highways and apply only to development that can be seen from
the public thoroughfares. The ordinance applies only to construction of new
commercial buildings, and large residential subdivisions.
   (B)   The proposed improvements to the scenic corridor ordinance are as
follows:
      (1)   Non-residential buildings should not have sheet or corrugated metal
exterior walls;
      (2)   The placement of trailers, sea-tainers and temporary storage units
within view of thoroughfares should be restricted to a specified and limited
time interval;
      (3)   The planting yard requirements for screening chainlink or similar
fencing should be significantly increased to make these fences less noticeable
immediately after construction; and
      (4)   Architectural design elements should be revised and strengthened to
reflect the desired character of the community. Standards should address such
things as, building style, colors, materials, signage and the like.
(Ord. passed 10-18-2007)
APPENDIX A: STOKESDALE HISTORIC PROPERTIES
Inventory Number Significant Property Property Address
Inventory Number Significant Property               Property Address
699              Dr. Taylor-Edwards House           8512 Main Street
700              D. A. Jones House Stokesdale       8624 Main Street
701              Commercial District                Main Street
702              Rumley House #2                    9000 Fulp Road
703              John Fulp House                    9056 Fulp Road
704              D. P. Lemmons House                8306 Newberry Street
705              Log House                          8306 Newberry Street
707              Knight House #3                    8301 Stokesdale Street
708              Knight House #2                    8303 Stokesdale Street
709              Knight House #1                    8305 Stokesdale Street
710              Stokesdale Methodist Parsonage     8401 Stokesdale Street
711              Vaughn House (Bernice Jones)       8407 Stokesdale Street
712              Dr. Hilton House                   8306 Strand Drive
713              Dr. Hilton Office                  8306 Strand Drive
714              Flat Rock Methodist Church         6790 C. U.S. 158
715              Vernon House                       6838 C. U.S. 158
716              T. A. Wilson House                 6900 U.S. 158
717              (Phyllis Green House)              7950 U.S. 158
5252             Stokesdale United Methodist Church 8305 Loyola Drive
5253             Pearman Rock Quarry                Pearman Quarry Road
 
(Ord. passed 10-18-2007)
APPENDIX B: CRITICAL HABITATS
 
Site Name              Features                                  Rank
Anthony Road Holler    High integrity dry-Mesic oak hickory      County General
                       forest; American Shinleaf present
                       Mixed hardwood forest with American
King’s Creek Slopes  Shinleaf, Showy Orchids and regionally    County General
                       rare Waterleaf
Pearman’s Quarry WoodDry-Mesic and Mesic mixed hardwood forest County General
                       on publicly-owned land
 
(Ord. passed 10-18-2007)
APPENDIX C: FUTURE LAND USE MAP
(Ord. passed 10-18-2007)
APPENDIX D: LAND USE PLAN IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
   Implementation of the identified vision and objectives, as outlined in the
land use plan, is as important a process in long-range planning as document
preparation. Without clear articulation of how the vision and objectives are to
be achieved, a timeframe for accomplishment and a responsible party charged
with execution, the plan will fail to serve its purpose. We recommend the
following actions to ensure realization of the community benefits envisioned by
the plan.
Vision Objectives Timeframe Cost Facilitators Strategy
                           Timeframe           Cost   Facilitators Strategy
                           Short  Medium Long
Vision        Objectives   (1-    (2-    (6-   $, $$,
                           2 Year 5      8     $$$
                           s)     Years) Years
                                         )
Open Space/                                                        
Trail System
                                                                   Prepare park
                                                                   land
              Identify                                             acquisition
              future park                             Parks        strategy;
             and trail    X      X      X     $      Committee    work with
              areas                                                state and
                                                                   county to
                                                                   fund land
                                                                   purchase
Professiona
l/
Manufacturing                                                      
Corridor
 
              Extend                                               Work with
              eastern city                                         property
             limits along X                   $      Town Council owners to
              U.S. 220                                             petition for
                                                                   inclusion
Residential
Developme nt                                                       
Area
                                                                   Ordinance
              1 acre lot                              Ordinance    committee to
             size outside X                   0      Committee    draft
              of town core                                         ordinance
                                                                   changes
                                                                   Ordinance
              Eliminate                               Ordinance    committee to
             the use PDR  X                   0      Committee    draft
                                                                   ordinance
                                                                   changes
                                                                   Amend
                                                                   ordinance to
              Increase                                             increase
             natural      X                   0      Ordinance    natural
              buffers                                 Committee    buffers for
                                                                   major
                                                                   residential
                                                                   developments
Scenic                                                             
Corridor
              Enhance                                              Ordinance
              scenic                                  Ordinance    committee to
             corridor     X                          Committee    draft
              ordinances                                           ordinance
                                                                   changes
Town Core                                                          
                                                                   Town to
                                                                   allow more
              Amend                                                BUA in town
             watershed    X                   $      Town Council core in
              regulations                                          order to
                                                                   accommodate
                                                                   business
                                                                   growth
                                                                   Establish
                                                                   Parks
                                                                   committee;
              Linear Town                                          apply for
             Park and     X      X      X     $$     Parks        matching
              Trail                                   Committee    grant funds
                                                                   from NCDOT
                                                                   for
                                                                   pedestrian
                                                                   master plan
                                                                   Ordinance
              Ordinances:                             Ordinance    committee to
             condemnation X                   0      Committee    draft
              and RPD                                              ordinance
                                                                   changes
                                                                   Establish
                                                                   Committee;
                                                                   Research and
                                                                   propose
             Historic     X      X            $      Historic     possible
              District                                Committee    Historic
                                                                   district to
                                                                   preserve and
                                                                   enhance Town
                                                                   Core
                                                                   Apply for
                                                                   matching
              Construct                                            grant funds
              sidewalks                                            from NCDOT
             and traffic  X      X            $$$    Town Council for
              calming                                              construction
              items                                                based on
                                                                   pedestrian
                                                                   master plan
Transportat                                                        
ion
              Develop and
              adopt a                                 Planning
             street       X                          Department    
              connector
              plan
 
(Ord. passed 10-18-2007)
APPENDIX E: TRAFFIC CALMING
   Traffic calming is a term used to describe a series of methods and
techniques used to slow and control traffic making it more compatible with
other uses and activities, including pedestrian and bicycles. It has been used
extensively in Europe and Australia, and is now gaining popularity in the
United States.
   The concept behind traffic calming is that a street is more than just a
place for automobiles. In neighborhoods children use streets as play areas and
adults walk and ride bicycles along them. Social interaction between neighbors
takes place, and in some cases, street or block parties are held. Along roads
with commercial development streets provide parking, sidewalks for pedestrian
movement and social interaction between people. Traffic calming is a
compilation of tools that work together to slow and manage traffic. These
include everything from traffic lights and stop signs, to narrowing lanes and
speed bumps. It also involves making the driver aware that they are entering an
area where speed limits have been reduced and to expect other forms of traffic.
   The Land Use Plan Committee has recommended that attempts be made to calm
traffic in the town core area. The most important of these efforts is the
construction of the 158 by-pass to remove the heavy truck traffic from the
downtown. However, this is a long-term effort that may take a decade or more to
be realized. Short-term efforts that can be implemented over the next few years
include the following:
   Create a feeling of narrowing for Main Street (U.S. 158) from NC 68 to NC 65
through:
   •   Planting street trees and the creating of a linear park along the
abandoned railroad right-of-way.
   •   Instituting parallel parking along U.S. 158 as commercial development
and redevelopment occurs.
   •   Reducing setbacks for new buildings to create a visual narrowing or
enclosure of the view from the vehicle.
   Provide safe pedestrian crossing areas through:
   •   Upgrading of crosswalks at important intersections to clearly define
their locations by the use of special pavers and/or markings, and signalized
pedestrian crossings.
   Alert drivers that they are entering downtown through:
   •   Signage posted before the two major intersections alerting drivers to
fact that they are entering an area of more intense pedestrian activity. This
can include flashing lights, gateways or other attractive signage.
(Ord. passed 10-18-2007)
CHAPTER 151: LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Short title
   
151.002   Repeals and enactment
   
151.003   Purpose
   
151.004   Jurisdiction
   
151.005   Authority
   
151.006   Abrogation
   
151.007   Interpretation of chapter
   
151.008   Rules of construction
   
151.009   Compliance
   
151.010   Relation to Comprehensive Plan
   
151.011   Official Zoning Map; establishment
   
151.012   District boundaries; interpretation
   
151.013   Severability
   
151.014   Definitions
Administration
   
151.025   General administrative procedures
   
151.026   Planning Board
   
151.027   Historic Preservation Commission
   
151.028   Board of Adjustment
   
151.029   Enforcement Officer
   
151.030   Multi-Jurisdictional Development Ordinance Committee (MDOC)
   
151.031   Governing board
   
151.032   Appeals; procedure
   
151.033   Decision and appeals chart
Enforcement
   
151.045   Violations
   
151.046   Enforcement intent
   
151.047   Enforcement procedures
   
151.048   Remedies
   
151.049   Assessment and procedures
   
151.050   State and common law remedies; previous enforcement
   
151.051   Remedies cumulative and continuous
   
151.052   Action by others
Permits and Procedures
   
151.065   Permit required
   
151.066   Permit exceptions
   
151.067   Permit applications
   
151.068   Permit issuance
   
151.069   Permit appeals
   
151.070   Inspections and investigations
   
151.071   Permit expiration
   
151.072   Certificate requirements
   
151.073   Dedication or reservation of right-of-way
   
151.074   Sureties or improvement guarantees
   
151.075   Site plan and plot plan procedures
   
151.076   Zoning map and text amendments
   
151.077   Conditional zoning districts and special use permits
   
151.078   Non-conforming lots, uses and structures
   
151.079   Historic districts
   
151.080   Zoning vested rights
   
151.081   Required information for obtaining certain permits
District Requirements
   
151.095   Districts established
   
151.096   District descriptions
   
151.097   Permitted uses
   
151.098   Dimensional requirements
   
151.099   Accessory uses, buildings and structures
   
151.100   Supplementary dimensional requirements
   
151.101   Zone lot requirements
   
151.102   Lot size reduction prohibitions
   
151.103   Special purpose lots
   
151.104   Planned unit developments
   
151.105   Overlay district requirements
Subdivision Procedures and Standards
   
151.120   Exclusion determination
   
151.121   Coordination with other procedures
   
151.122   Submission of plans
   
151.123   Approval required
   
151.124   Pre-application procedures
   
151.125   Preliminary plat
   
151.126   Street and utility construction
   
151.127   Permanent runoff control structures and soil erosion and
sedimentation control devices installation
   
151.128   Owners’ associations
   
151.129   Final plat
   
151.130   Recordation of final plats
   
151.131   Waivers
   
151.132   Subdivision standards
Signs
   
151.145   General
   
151.146   Prohibited signs
   
151.147   Signs exempt from regulation
   
151.148   Signs not requiring permit
   
151.149   Signs requiring permit
   
151.150   Computation of sign area
   
151.151   Location, construction and maintenance specifications
   
151.152   Master or common signage plan
   
151.153   Permits to construct or modify
   
151.154   Sign certificates
   
151.155   Compliance
Off-Street Parking, Stacking and Loading
   
151.170   General requirements
   
151.171   Unlisted uses
   
151.172   Parking requirements for change in use
   
151.173   Design standards
   
151.174   Location
   
151.175   Combined parking
   
151.176   Loading areas
Landscaping
   
151.190   Applicability
   
151.191   Planting yards; determination
   
151.192   Design and maintenance standards
   
151.193   Procedures
   
151.194   Alternate methods of compliance
   
151.195   Preserving existing trees
Supplementary Requirements
   
151.210   Development standards for individual uses
   
151.211   Fences
   
151.212   Dumpster screening
Storm Water Management
   
151.225   District descriptions
   
151.226   Incorporation of designated water supply watershed/NPDES Phase II
Storm Water Map of Guilford County
   
151.227   Applicability
   
151.228   Participation in public water quality lake program
   
151.229   Storm water management/watershed development plan
   
151.230   Improvements
   
151.231   Clustering
   
151.232   Drainage
   
151.233   Stream buffer required
   
151.234   Stream channelization
   
151.235   Activities regulated by other government agencies
   
151.236   Variances
   
151.237   Watershed reporting
Watershed Protection Districts; Performance Standards
   
151.250   National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES)
   
151.251   General watershed areas (GWA)
Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control
   
151.265   General requirements
   
151.266   Basic control objectives
   
151.267   Land-disturbing activities; mandatory standards
   
151.268   Design and performance standards
   
151.269   Storm water outlet protection
   
151.270   Borrow and waste areas
   
151.271   Access and haul roads
   
151.272   Operations in lakes or natural watercourses
   
151.273   Responsibility for maintenance
   
151.274   Additional measures
   
151.275   Existing uncovered areas
   
151.276   Erosion and sedimentation control plans
   
151.277   Enforcement procedure; violations
   
151.278   Injunctive relief
Flood Damage Prevention
   
151.290   Statutory authorization
   
151.291   Legal status provisions
   
151.292   Findings of fact
   
151.293   Lands to which subchapter applies
   
151.294   Basis for establishing special flood hazard areas
   
151.295   Floodplain development permit
   
151.296   Compliance
   
151.297   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
151.298   Floodplain development application
   
151.299   General flood hazard reduction standards
   
151.300   Specific flood hazard reduction standards
   
151.301   Floodplains without established base flood elevations
   
151.302   Riverine floodplains with BFE but without established floodways or
non- encroachment areas
   
151.303   Floodways and non-encroachment areas
Street Names and Address Assignments
   
151.315   Purpose and authority
   
151.316   Street address system
   
151.317   Posting addresses
   
151.318   Change of existing address
   
151.319   Alphabet not used
   
151.320   Street names
   
151.321   Street name prefixes and suffixes
   
151.322   Street name signs
Map Standards
   
151.335   Number of review and filing copies to be submitted
   
151.336   Required information on minor/major subdivisions, exclusion and the
like
   
151.337   Map certificates
 
   
151.999   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 151.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Town of Stokesdale
Development Ordinance”, except as referred to herein, where it shall be known
as “this chapter”.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 1-1)
§ 151.002 REPEALS AND ENACTMENT.
   (A)   Repeal of inconsistency. All ordinances, or portions thereof, of the
town, which relate to zoning, subdivision and land use which are inconsistent
with the provisions of this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent of such
inconsistency.
   (B)   Enactment. This chapter is hereby enacted and shall be the
“Development Ordinance” for town.
   (C)   Effective date. This chapter became effective on 7-1-1998.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 1-2)
§ 151.003 PURPOSE.
   (A)   General purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the
health, safety, morals and general welfare of the residents of the town through
the regulations of this chapter.
   (B)   Zoning regulation purpose. The zoning regulations, adopted and
prescribed in this chapter, are found by the governing body to be necessary and
appropriate to:
      (1)   Lessen congestion in the streets;
      (2)   Secure safety from fire, panic and other dangers;
      (3)   Provide adequate light and air;
      (4)   Prevent the overcrowding of land;
      (5)   Avoid undue concentration of population;
      (6)   Facilitate the adequate and economic provision of transportation,
water, sewage, schools, park and other public services;
      (7)   Protect water quality within watershed critical areas and/or
designated municipal watersheds;
      (8)   Preserve and enhance visual attractiveness and economic vitality;
      (9)   Require appropriate setbacks for buildings and other structures to
facilitate the safe movement of vehicular and pedestrian traffic, provide
adequate fire lanes and ensure adequate distance from dust, noise and fumes
created by vehicular traffic; and
      (10)   Establish a zoning vested right upon the approval of a site
specific development plan, pursuant to G.S. § 153A-344.1.
   (C)   Cluster and zero side setback regulation purpose. The single-family
dwelling cluster and zero side setback regulations, adopted and prescribed in
this chapter, are found by the governing body to be necessary and appropriate
to:
      (1)   Encourage innovation in residential development by providing
efficient, attractive, flexible and environmentally sensitive design;
      (2)   Lower the costs of housing by reducing the lot size and the per
dwelling unit linear footage of streets, water lines, storm sewers and sanitary
sewers;
      (3)   Reduce the future cost of infrastructure maintenance and,
therefore, the burden upon taxpayers and ratepayers;
      (4)   Encourage development in areas which have major streets and utility
lines in place, but are experiencing little or no development;
      (5)   Protect water quality, preserve wildlife habitats and protect
natural features such as streams, lakes, wetlands and trees; and
      (6)   Reduce the amount of grading necessary for site preparation.
   (D)   Planned unit development purpose. The planned unit development
regulations, adopted and prescribed in this chapter, are found by the governing
body to be necessary and appropriate to:
      (1)   Promote all of the purposes listed in division (C) above;
      (2)   Allow diversification of uses in developments intended as cohesive,
unified projects;
      (3)   Allow variation in the relationship of residential and non-
residential uses and structures in such cohesive, unified projects;
      (4)   Reduce travel time by providing opportunities for employment and
services closer to residences; and
      (5)   Encourage innovation by offering flexibility in design and layout
requirements to achieve a greater choice of living and working environments.
   (E)   Historic district overlay purpose. The historic district overlay
regulations, adopted and prescribed in this chapter, are found by the governing
body to be necessary and appropriate to:
      (1)   Protect, safeguard and conserve the heritage of the community;
      (2)   Promote the sound and orderly preservation of historic areas as a
whole, and of the individual properties therein, which embody important
elements of social, economic, political or architectural history for the
education, pleasure and enrichment of all citizens; and
      (3)   Enhance property values within historic areas.
   (F)   Scenic corridor overlay purpose. The scenic corridor overlay
regulations, adopted and prescribed in this chapter, are found by the governing
body to be necessary and appropriate to:
      (1)   Preserve and enhance the appearance and operational characteristics
of certain designated roadways; and
      (2)   Address development issues of special concern with specific
requirements which relate to land use, traffic movement, access, environment,
signage, landscaping, visual quality and aesthetics.
   (G)   Manufactured housing overlay purpose. The manufactured housing overlay
regulations, adopted and prescribed in this chapter, are found by the governing
body to be necessary and appropriate to:
      (1)   Provide alternative, affordable housing opportunities for low- and
moderate- income residents in residential areas by allowing for the use of
manufactured dwellings;
      (2)   Establish requirements designed to assure acceptable similarity in
exterior appearance between manufactured dwellings and single-family dwellings
that have been or might be constructed on adjacent or nearby lots; and
      (3)   Protect property values and preserve the character and integrity of
the community or individual neighborhoods within the community.
   (H)   Subdivision regulation purpose. The subdivision (including group
development) regulations, adopted and prescribed in this chapter, are found by
the governing body to be necessary and appropriate to:
      (1)   Promote orderly growth and development;
      (2)   Provide for suitable residential and non-residential developments
with adequate streets and utilities and appropriate building sites;
      (3)   Provide for the distribution of population and traffic in a manner
which shall avoid congestion and overcrowding;
      (4)   Provide for the coordination of streets within subdivisions with
existing or planned streets and with other public facilities;
      (5)   Provide for the dedication or reservation of rights-of-way or
easements for street and utility purposes;
      (6)   Provide for the dedication or reservation of adequate spaces for
public lands and buildings;
      (7)   Encourage design that is protective of environmental quality;
      (8)   Provide for the dedication or reservation of recreation, park and
greenway areas; and
      (9)   Provide proper land records for the convenience of the public and
for better identification and permanent location of real property boundaries.
   (I)   Sign regulation purpose. The sign regulations, adopted and prescribed
in this chapter, are found by the governing body to be necessary and
appropriate to:
      (1)   Encourage the effective use of signs as a means of visual
communication;
      (2)   Promote a positive community appearance for the enjoyment of all
citizens;
      (3)   Maintain and enhance the aesthetic environment and the community’s
ability to attract sources of economic development and growth;
      (4)   Protect the public from damage or injury attributable to
distractions and/or obstructions caused by improperly designed or located
signs; and
      (5)   Protect existing property values in both residential and non-
residential areas.
   (J)   Off-street parking, stacking and loading regulation purpose. The off-
street parking, stacking and loading regulations, adopted and prescribed in
this chapter, are found by the governing body to be necessary and appropriate
to:
      (1)   Ensure a sufficient amount of off-street parking, stacking and
loading areas for various land uses;
      (2)   Ensure easy, convenient circulation of vehicles within parking and
loading areas;
      (3)   Minimize the potential for conflict with traffic on public streets;
and
      (4)   Permit the shared use of parking areas by establishments and/or
activities which have different hours of operation.
   (K)   Planting yard purpose. The planting yard regulations, adopted and
prescribed in this chapter, are found by the governing body to be necessary and
appropriate to:
      (1)   Create a better quality of life for the community by encouraging
preservation of existing trees and vegetation;
      (2)   Provide visual buffering and enhance beautification;
      (3)   Establish appropriate separation between land uses;
      (4)   Provide the separation necessary to permit certain land uses to
coexist harmoniously which might not do so otherwise;
      (5)   Safeguard and enhance property values and protect public and
private investment;
      (6)   Enhance the community’s competitive position in economic
development and tourism by improving views, particularly along streets; and
      (7)   Reduce the negative impact of glare, noise, trash, odors,
overcrowding, traffic, lack of privacy and visual disorder when incompatible
land uses adjoin one another.
   (L)   Watershed protection purpose. The watershed protection regulations,
adopted and prescribed in this chapter, are found by the governing body to be
necessary and appropriate to:
      (1)   Protect those portions of designated water supply watersheds which
lie closest to existing and proposed water supply reservoirs from activities
which could degrade water quality in the reservoirs;
      (2)   Reduce the volume of nutrients and other chemicals which could
enter the water supply by reducing the amount of runoff which any given
development will generate;
      (3)   Minimize land disturbance to reduce the amount of sediment washing
into streams and lakes and to enhance the infiltration of runoff into soil;
thus, alleviating the sedimentation of water supply lakes which reduces their
storage capacity, shortens their useful life and makes them less able to
withstand drought;
      (4)   Reduce the probability of the release of harmful chemicals into
water supply reservoirs, either through natural catastrophe or human error; and
      (5)   Provide for natural and engineered methods for managing the storm
water which flushes contaminants off of built-upon areas in the designated
water supply watersheds and which may reach water supply reservoirs unless
controlled.
   (M)   Soil erosion and sedimentation control purpose. The soil erosion and
sedimentation control regulations, adopted and prescribed in this chapter, are
found by the governing body to be necessary and appropriate to:
      (1)   Regulate certain land-disturbing activity to control accelerated
erosion and sedimentation to prevent the pollution of water and other damage to
lakes, watercourses and other public and private property by sedimentation; and
      (2)   Establish procedures through which the purposes of soil erosion and
sedimentation control can be fulfilled.
   (N)   Flood damage prevention purpose.
      (1)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to promote public
health, safety and general welfare and to minimize public and private losses
due to flood conditions within flood-prone areas by provisions designed to:
         (a)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety
and property due to water or erosion hazards or that result in damaging
increases in erosion, flood heights or velocities;
         (b)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities
that serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
         (c)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels
and natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
flood waters;
         (d)   Control filling, grading, dredging and all other development
that may increase erosion or flood damage; and
         (e)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
      (2)   Objectives.
         (a)   To protect human life and health;
         (b)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood-control
projects;
         (c)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated
with flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
         (d)   To minimize prolonged business losses and interruptions;
         (e)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities (i.e.,
water and gas mains, electric, telephone, cable and sewer lines, streets and
bridges) that are located in flood-prone areas;
         (f)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound
use and development of flood-prone areas; and
         (g)   To ensure that potential buyers are aware that property is in a
special flood hazard area.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 1-3; Ord. passed 5-17-2007(1))
§ 151.004 JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all the territory encompassed
in the town herein referred to as “the jurisdiction”, except for those areas
within incorporated municipalities and their extraterritorial jurisdiction, and
property owned by the Piedmont Triad Airport Authority. This chapter shall
govern the development and use of land and structures therein, except for farm
land and structures as provided for by G.S. Ch. 160D.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 1-4; Ord. passed 11-13-2025)
§ 151.005 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   This chapter is adopted pursuant to the enabling legislation of G.S.
Ch. 160D, while also referencing other sections of G.S. Ch. 160A or other state
statutes necessary for exercising this chapter and incorporated by reference
where possible.
   (B)   This chapter may be amended from time to time as required or allowed
by subsequent legislative enactments.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 1-5; Ord. passed 8-14-2025)
§ 151.006 ABROGATION.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, annul, impair or interfere
with any existing easements, covenants, deed restrictions, agreements, rules,
regulations or permits previously adopted or issued pursuant to law.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 1-6; Ord. passed 5-17-2007(1))
§ 151.007 INTERPRETATION OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   Minimum requirements. In the interpretation and application of this
chapter, all provisions shall be considered to be minimum requirements and
deemed neither to limit, nor repeal, any other powers granted under state
statutes.
   (B)   Greater restrictions govern. These regulations shall be the minimum
requirements for administration, enforcement, procedures, restrictions,
standards, uses, variances and all other areas addressed by this chapter. If
any federal or state law or any other existing ordinance or regulation allows
lesser regulation this chapter shall govern so that, in all cases, the more
restrictive limitation or requirement shall govern. Whenever regulations
imposed by this chapter are less restrictive than regulations imposed by any
governmental authority through regulation, rule or restriction, the regulations
imposed by that authority shall govern. Regardless of any other provision of
this chapter, no land shall be developed or used and no structure shall be
erected or maintained in violation of any state or federal regulation.
   (C)   Rounding of numbers. All calculations that result in a part or
fraction of a whole number shall be rounded up to the next highest whole
number, unless otherwise provided in this chapter.
   (D)   Density.
      (1)   Rounding. In calculating density, all calculations that result in a
part or fraction of a whole number shall be rounded down to the next lowest
whole number.
      (2)   Dwelling unit equivalence.
         (a)   Congregate care facilities and private dormitories. For the
purpose of calculating density for congregate care facilities and private
dormitories, two bedrooms shall be equivalent to one dwelling unit.
         (b)   Single-room occupancy (SRO) residences. For the purpose of
calculating density for single-room occupancy (SRO) residences, a rooming unit
of less than 150 square feet shall be equivalent to one-half a dwelling unit
and a rooming unit of 150 square feet or more shall be equivalent to one
dwelling unit.
   (E)   Figures.
      (1)   The figures provided in this chapter are designed to provide a
visual explanation to selected sections of this chapter.
      (2)   If any illustration appears to be in conflict with the text of this
chapter, the text shall govern.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 1-7; Ord. passed 5-17-2007(1))
§ 151.008 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Word interpretation. Words not defined in this chapter shall be given
their ordinary and common meaning.
   (B)   Rules of construction. For the purposes of this chapter, the following
rules of construction shall apply.
      (1)   Tense. Words used in the present tense include the future tense.
      (2)   Singular and plural. Words used in the singular number include the
plural number, and the plural number includes the singular number, unless the
context of the particular usage clearly indicates otherwise.
      (3)   Mandatory meaning. The words “shall”, “will” and “must” are
mandatory in nature implying an obligation or duty to comply with the
particular provision.
      (4)   Gender. Words used in the male gender include the female gender.
      (5)   References. Any reference to an article or section shall mean an
article or section of this chapter, unless otherwise specified.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 1-8)
§ 151.009 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Compliance. No building, premises or structure shall be constructed,
erected, modified, converted, occupied, placed, maintained or moved, and no
land use shall be commenced, maintained or modified, except as authorized by
this chapter.
   (B)   Voluntary compliance. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to
preclude voluntary compliance with the provisions of this chapter for
development approved prior to the effective date of this chapter.
   (C)   Conformance with requirements.
      (1)   Except as herein provided, no applicable permit shall be issued or
granted that does not conform to the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   Developments which have received County Technical Review Committee,
Enforcement Officer approval or a building permit prior to the effective date
of this chapter, may proceed in accordance with such approval or permit while
such approval or permit remains in effect.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 1-9)
§ 151.010 RELATION TO THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   The administration, enforcement and amendment of this chapter shall be
accomplished with consideration of recommendations presented in the documents
comprising the Comprehensive Plan. These documents include, but are not limited
to the following: Land Use Plan; Thoroughfare Plan; Collector Street Plan;
Small Area Plans; Community Facilities Plan; Capital Improvement Plan; Economic
Development Strategies; Housing Assistance Plan; Recreation Plan; Greenways
Plan; Drainage and Open Space Plan; and Watershed Management Plan. Any
amendment or adoption of a new plan must follow notice procedures outlined for
a rezoning decision and the plan must be reasonably updated according to G.S. §
160D-501(a).
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 1-10; Ord. passed 8-14-2025)
§ 151.011 OFFICIAL ZONING MAP; ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   Official Zoning Map. The jurisdiction is hereby divided into zones, or
districts, as established in §§
151.095 through
151.105 of this chapter.
   (B)   Map certification. The Official Zoning Map shall be identified by the
signature of the Mayor of the town, attested by the Town Clerk and bear the
seal of the jurisdiction, together with the effective date of this chapter.
   (C)   Map changes. If changes are made in district boundaries or other
matters portrayed on the Official Zoning Map, such changes shall be entered on
the Official Zoning Map. Prior zoning map copies shall be maintained in paper
or digital format according to G.S. § 160D-105.
   (D)   Unauthorized changes. No changes in zoning district boundaries shall
be made on the Official Zoning Map, except in conformance with the procedures
set forth in this chapter. Any unauthorized change shall be considered a
violation of this chapter.
   (E)   Map location. Regardless of the existence of purported copies of the
Official Zoning Map which may from time to time be made or published, the
Official Zoning Map, shall be located in the town hall and shall be the final
authority as to the current zoning of property within the jurisdiction. The
town may choose to provide the official zoning map on the town website in
digital format.
   (F)   Copies. Copies of the zoning map may be reproduced by any method of
reproduction that gives legible and permanent copies and, when certified by the
local government clerk in accordance with G.S. §§ 160A-79 or 153A-50, shall be
admissible into evidence and shall have the same force and effect as would the
original map.
   (G)   Incorporation by reference. If the zoning map references flood
insurance rate maps, watershed boundary maps or other maps officially adopted
or promulgated by state and federal agencies, when these other jurisdictional
maps are updated, it will update the local zoning map. The town will make every
effort to keep a copy for public inspection or provide a link to the referenced
maps pursuant to G.S. § 160D-105.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 1-11; Ord. passed 8-14-2025)
§ 151.012 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES; INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Boundary interpretation. Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries
of any district shown on the Official Zoning Map, the following rules shall
apply.
      (1)   Centerline. Where a boundary line lies within and follows a street
or alley right-of-way, a railroad right-of-way or utility easement, the
boundary shall be construed to be in the center of such street or alley right-
of-way, railroad right-of-way or utility easement. If such a street or alley
right-of-way, railroad right-of-way or utility easement forming the boundary
between two separate zoning districts is abandoned or removed from dedication,
the district boundaries shall be construed as following the centerline of the
abandoned or vacated roadbed or utility easement.
      (2)   Edge line. Where a boundary line follows the edge of a street or
alley right-of-way, a railroad right-of-way or utility easement, the boundary
shall be construed to be in the edge of such street or alley right-of-way,
railroad right-of-way or utility easement. If such a street or alley right-of-
way, railroad right-of-way or utility easement forming the boundary between two
separate zoning districts is abandoned or removed from dedication, the district
boundaries shall be construed as following the edge of the abandoned or vacated
roadbed or utility easement.
      (3)   Lot line. Boundaries indicated as approximately following lot lines
shall be construed as following such lot lines. In the event that a district
boundary line divides a lot or tract, each part of the lot or tract so divided
shall be used in conformity with the regulations established by this chapter
for the district in which said part is located.
      (4)   Town limits. Boundaries indicated as approximately following town
limits or extraterritorial boundary lines shall be construed as following the
town limits or extraterritorial boundary lines.
      (5)   County line. Boundaries indicated as approximately following county
lines shall be construed as following the county line.
      (6)   Watercourses. Boundaries indicated as approximately following the
centerlines of streams, rivers, canals, lakes or other bodies of water shall be
construed to follow such centerlines.
      (7)   Extensions. Boundaries indicated as parallel to, or as extensions
of, street or alley rights-of-way, channelized waterways, railroad rights-of-
way, utility easements, lot lines, town limits, county lines or
extraterritorial boundaries shall be so construed.
      (8)   Scaling. Where a district boundary does not coincide with any
boundary lines as above and no distances are described by specific ordinance,
the boundary shall be determined by the use of the scale appearing on the map.
In the case of flood zones, Corps of Engineers work maps, if available, shall
be used for scaling.
      (9)   Watersheds. Outer boundaries of general watershed area districts
indicated as approximately following ridge lines or streets shall be construed
to follow ridge lines (the actual drainage basin boundaries). Watershed
critical area district outer boundaries not forming the inner boundaries of
general watershed area districts shall be construed in the same manner.
Boundaries between general watershed area districts and watershed critical area
districts indicated as approximately following major landmarks (identifiable
major features) such as streets shall be construed to follow the centerlines of
such features or, where applicable, the projections of the centerlines of such
features.
   (B)   Interpretation by Board of Adjustment. Where existing natural or
human-made features on the ground are at variance with those shown on the
Official Zoning Map, or are not covered by division (A) above, the Board of
Adjustment shall interpret the district boundary.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 1-12)
§ 151.013 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   Invalidation. Should any section, sentence, clause, phrase or word of
this chapter be held invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent
jurisdiction of either the state or the United States, such decision shall not
affect, impair or invalidate the validity of the remaining parts of this
chapter which can be given effect without the invalid provision.
   (B)   Prejudicial application. If any section, sentence, clause, phrase or
word of this chapter be held invalid or unconstitutional in its application to
a particular case, such decision shall not affect or prejudice its application
to other cases.
   (C)   Lawful presumption. There shall be a conclusive presumption when an
Enforcement Officer or Board authorizes regulatory action, that such Officer or
Board would not have authorized such action, except in the belief that such
action was lawful.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 1-13)
§ 151.014 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Definitions generally.
      (1)   These definitions are grouped in the following functional groups:
         (a)   Building and structure;
         (b)   Drainage and watershed protection;
         (c)   Dwelling;
         (d)   Easements;
         (e)   Erosion and sedimentation control;
         (f)   Flood damage prevention;
         (g)   General;
         (h)   Hazardous waste;
         (i)   Lot;
         (j)   Setback;
         (k)   Signs; and
         (l)   Streets, drives and lanes.
      (2)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   (B)   Buildings and structures.
      ACCESSORY BUILDING. A detached subordinate building, the use of which is
incidental to that of the principal building and located on the same lot
therewith.
      ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A detached subordinate structure(s), the use of
which is incidental to that of the principal structure and located on the same
lot therewith.
      BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by walls or columns
constructed or used for residence, business, industry or other public or
private purposes.
      BUILDING DESIGN ELEMENTS. The exterior building color; type or style of
exterior cladding material; style or materials of roof structures or porches;
exterior nonstructural architectural ornamentation; location or architectural
styling of windows and doors, including garage doors; the number and types of
rooms; and the interior layout of rooms.
      BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the average
elevation of the finished grade to the topmost section of the roof. See Figure
1 below.
Figure 1: Measurement of Building Height (No Scale)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/becb2f9c6e5d0add85cd879a02d64c74e71e8c8f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-730.png]
 
      BUILDING LINE. A line perpendicular to the lot depth which establishes
the horizontal distance between the structure and the front property line
excluding the outermost steps, uncovered porches, gutters and similar fixtures.
See Figure 2 below.
Figure 2: Determination of Minimum Building Line (No Scale)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/becb2f9c6e5d0add85cd879a02d64c74e71e8c8f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-732.png]
 
      BUILDING SEPARATION. The minimum required horizontal distance between
buildings.
      PRINCIPAL BUILDING. A building in which is conducted the principal use of
the zone lot on which it is located or, in a group development, of the building
site on which it is located. Any dwelling is considered a PRINCIPAL BUILDING
unless it is an accessory dwelling in compliance with §
151.210 of this chapter, farm tenant dwelling or a residence for a pastor, or
caretaker dwelling accessory to a non-residential use (limited to one such
residence per lot).
      PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE. A structure(s) in which is conducted the principal
use(s) of the zone lot on which it is located.
      STRUCTURE. Any thing constructed, erected or placed.
      TEMPORARY BUILDING. Any building of an impermanent nature, or which is
designed for use for a limited time, including any tent or canopy.
      TEMPORARY STRUCTURE. Any structure of an impermanent nature or which is
designed for use for a limited time, including any tent or canopy.
   (C)   Drainage and watershed protection.
      BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICE (BMP). A structural or non-structural
management-based practice used singularly or in combination to reduce non-point
source inputs to receiving waters in order to achieve water quality protection
goals.
      BUILT-UPON AREA. The portion of a development project that is covered by
impervious or partially impervious cover including buildings, pavement, gravel
(for pedestrian or vehicular use), recreation facilities (e.g., tennis courts)
and the like. (Note: wooden slatted decks and the water area of a swimming pool
are not considered BUILT-UPON AREA.)
      DETENTION POND. A pond which collects storm water runoff, filters the
water and releases it slowly over a period of hours or days. It does not have a
permanent pool and is sometimes referred to as a DRY POND or WET WEATHER POND.
      DEVELOPMENT, EXISTING.
         (a)   Those projects that are built and those projects that, at a
minimum, have established a vested right under state zoning law as of 1-1-1994,
based on at least one of the following criteria:
            1.   Substantial expenditure of resources (time, labor, money)
based on a good faith reliance upon having received a valid local government
approval to proceed with the project;
            2.   Having a valid outstanding building permit; or
            3.   Having expended substantial resources (time, labor, money) and
having an approved site specific (or phased) development plan in compliance
with G.S. § 160D-108.1.
         (b)   This definition applies only with respect to watershed
protection regulations.
      DEVELOPMENT, NEW. Any land-disturbing activity which adds to or changes
the amount of built-upon area. (This definition applies only with respect to
watershed protection regulations.)
      DISCHARGING LANDFILL. A facility with liners, monitoring equipment and
other measures to detect and/or prevent leachate from entering the environment
and in which the leachate is treated on site and discharged to a receiving
stream. These facilities require approval and a discharge permit from the
state’s Department of Environmental Management for legal operation.
      DRAINAGEWAY AND OPEN SPACE AREA, DEDICATED. The area designated for
floodplain and open space purposes on a recorded subdivision plat, and thereby
dedicated to the public for such purposes.
      DRAINAGE, DISPERSED. Drainage spread out, as opposed to collected in
channels, so as to effect increased sheet flow and overland flow.
      DRAINAGE, ENHANCED. Drainage carried by existing natural drainageways
which have been enhanced to resist soil erosion and stream bank degradation.
      DRAINAGE, REQUIRED CHANNEL. The theoretical stream bed section which is
required to carry and discharge the runoff from a 100-year storm.
      DRAINAGE, TYPICAL REQUIRED CHANNEL SECTION. A cross-sectional view of a
required drainage channel.
      DRAINAGEWAY. Any natural or human-made channel that carries surface
runoff from precipitation.
      DRAINAGEWAY, IMPROVED. Drainage channeled by impervious surfaces such as
curb and gutter or concrete (gunite, bituminous and the like) channels.
      DRAINAGEWAY, PROTECTED. A natural channel that is protected against
stream bank erosion and excessive runoff velocity by any one or a combination
of the following:
         (a)   Rip-rap channel stabilization;
         (b)   Establishment of soil-stabilizing vegetation; and
         (c)   Velocity reduction structures (stilling pools and drop
structures, for example).
      HAZARDOUS MATERIAL. Any material listed as such in: Superfund Amendments
and Reauthorization Act (SARA), § 302; Extremely Hazardous Substances (42
U.S.C. §§ 1100 et seq.); Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and
Liability Act (CERCLA); Hazardous Substances (42 U.S.C. §§ 9601 et seq.); or §
311 of the Clean Water Act, as amended (CWA) (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., oil
and hazardous substances) hereby incorporated by reference including any
subsequent amendments and editions.
      HIGH DENSITY OPTION. A density or intensity option for new development
wherein the density or intensity exceeds the applicable limit for development
under the low-density option (see definition below and Table 1 below), thereby
imposing a requirement for engineered storm water controls (runoff control
structures) in conformance with the requirements of the water supply watershed
protection rules as adopted by the state’s Environmental Management Commission
and the requirements of §§
151.250,
151.251,
151.265 through
151.278 and
151.290 through
151.303 of this chapter.
Table 1: Density and Intensity Limits for Low Density and High Density
Options
Watershed                   Low Density Option      High Density Option %
Classification Overlay Zone DU/AC % Built-Upon Area Built- Upon Area
Table 1: Density and Intensity Limits for Low Density and High Density
Options
Watershed                   Low Density Option      High Density Option %
Classification Overlay Zone DU/AC % Built-Upon Area Built- Upon Area

WS-IV          WCA          2     24                24 - 50
WS-IV          GWA          2a    24a               24 - 70
WS-III         WCA          1     12                12 - 30
WS-III         GWA          2     24                24 - 50b
Notes to Table:
a - Three DU/AC or 36% built-upon area is allowed for projects without a
curb and gutter street and driveway system.
b - Refer to § 7-2.3(B)(1) for additional allocation options.
 
      LOW DENSITY OPTION. A density or intensity option for new development
wherein the density, expressed in dwelling units per acre and/or the intensity,
expressed in percentage of the land surface covered by built-upon area, does
not exceed certain limits established in the water supply watershed protection
rules as adopted by the state’s Environmental Management Commission. The limits
vary depending upon the classification of the watershed and upon which overlay
zone, watershed critical area (WCA) or general watershed area (GWA), is
applicable. The limits in effect on 7-1-1993 are shown in Table 1 above.
      MAXIMUM RUNOFF RETENTION. The passage of approximately 100% of
channelized runoff through permanent retention or wet detention pond(s).
      MODERATE RUNOFF RETENTION. The passage of at least 75% of runoff through
permanent retention or wet detention pond(s).
      MODIFICATION, MAJOR WATERSHED. Modification of the existing regulations
that does not meet the definition of a minor watershed modification.
      MODIFICATION, MINOR WATERSHED. Modification of the existing regulations
that meets one of the following criteria:
         (a)   Modification of any standard present in this chapter, but not in
the state water supply watershed protection rules;
         (b)   Modification of any standard on which the level of performance
required by this chapter exceeds that required by the corresponding section of
the state water supply watershed protection rules; provided that, approval of
the modification does not lower the level of performance below that required by
the state regulations; or
         (c)   Modification of the state regulations by a factor of up to 5%
under the high density option or 10% under the low density option of any
standard expressed as a number.
      RETENTION POND. A pond that has a permanent pool.
      RUNOFF DETENTION EQUAL TO MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS. Velocity control of
runoff.
      RUNOFF DETENTION IN EXCESS OF EROSION CONTROL ORDINANCE. The passage of
at least 50% of runoff through permanent wet detention or retention ponds.
      SLUDGE. Any solid or semi-solid waste generated from a wastewater
treatment plant, water treatment plant or air pollution control facility
permitted under authority of the state’s Environmental Management Commission.
      STABILIZING VEGETATION. Any vegetation that protects the soil against
erosion.
      STORM DRAINAGE FACILITIES. The system of inlets, conduits, channels,
ditches and appurtenances which serve to collect and convey storm water through
and from a given drainage area.
      STORM, TEN-YEAR. The surface runoff resulting from a rainfall of an
intensity expected to be equaled or exceeded, on the average, once in ten years
and of a duration which will produce the maximum peak rate of runoff for the
watershed of interest under average antecedent wetness conditions.
      STORM 100-YEAR. The surface runoff resulting from a rainfall of an
intensity expected to be equaled or exceeded, on the average, once in 100 years
and of a duration which will produce the maximum peak rate of runoff for the
watershed of interest under average antecedent wetness conditions.
      STORM WATER RUNOFF. The direct runoff of water resulting from
precipitation in any form.
      STREAM. A watercourse that collects surface runoff.
      STREAM BUFFER. A natural or vegetated area through which storm water
runoff flows in a diffuse manner so that the runoff does not become channelized
and which provides for infiltration of the runoff and filtering of pollutants.
The buffer width is measured landward from the normal pool elevation of
impoundments and from the bank of each side of streams or rivers. (This
definition applies only with respect to watershed protection regulations.)
      SUBSTANTIALLY COMPLETED. Work has progressed to the point that, in the
opinion of the Enforcement Officer, it is sufficiently completed in accordance
with the approved plans and specifications that the work can be utilized for
its intended purposes. For permanent runoff control structures, this generally
means that the following have been accomplished:
         (a)   The dam has been constructed to the approved lines and grades;
         (b)   All slopes have been fine graded, seeded, mulched, fertilized
and tacked to establish permanent ground cover;
         (c)   Principal and emergency spillways have been installed at the
approved elevations and dimensions; and
         (d)   Permanent velocity controls on the inlet and outlet pipes and
channels have been installed.
      UNDISTURBED AREA. The portion of a lot, tract or subdivision which has
not and will not be occupied and which has not and will not be graded to change
land contours or to destroy existing vegetation. Only areas that are wooded or
reforested are considered UNDISTURBED for the purposes of watershed protection
scoresheet evaluation. (This definition applies only with respect to watershed
protection regulations.)
      VELOCITY. The average velocity of flow through the cross-section of the
main channel at the peak flow of the storm of interest. The cross-section of
the main channel shall be that area defined by the geometry of the channel,
plus the area of flow below the flood height defined by vertical lines at the
main channel banks. Overload flows are not to be included for the purpose of
computing VELOCITY OF FLOW.
      WATER-DEPENDENT STRUCTURES. Structures for which the use requires access
or proximity to or siting within surface waters to fulfill its basic purpose,
such as boat ramps, boat houses, docks and bulkheads. Ancillary facilities such
as restaurants, outlets for boat supplies, parking lots and commercial boat
storage areas are not WATER-DEPENDENT STRUCTURES.
      WATERSHED, WATER SUPPLY. The entire area contributing drainage to Lake
Townsend, Lake Brandt, Lake Higgins, Oak Hollow Lake, High Point City Lake,
Polecat Creek Lake, Reidsville Reservoir, Lake Mackintosh, Ramseur Reservoir,
Madison Intake and the proposed Randleman Dam Reservoir.
      WATERSHED CRITICAL AREA. The portion of the watershed within the lake
basin of the water supply reservoir as delineated in §§
151.250,
151.251,
151.265 through
151.278 and
151.290 through
151.303 of this chapter.
      WET DETENTION POND. A pond that has a permanent pool and also collects
storm water runoff, filters the water and releases it slowly over a period of
days.
   (D)   Dwelling.
      ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT. A dwelling unit that exists either as part of a
principal dwelling, or as an accessory building, and is secondary and
incidental to the use of the property as single-family residential.
      CONDOMINIUM. Portions of real estate which are designated for separate
ownership, and the remainder of which is designated for common ownership solely
by the owners of those portions. Real estate is not a CONDOMINIUM unless the
undivided interests in the common elements are vested in the unit owners.
      DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms, designed, occupied or intended for
occupancy as separate living quarters, with cooking, sleeping and sanitary
facilities provided therein. Units in dormitories, hotels, motels, shelters for
the homeless or other structures designed for transient residents are not
DWELLING UNITS.
      MANUFACTURED DWELLING.
         (a)   A dwelling that:
            1.   Is composed of one or more components, each of which was
substantially assembled in a manufacturing plant and designed to be transported
to the home site on its own chassis;
            2.   Exceeds 40 feet in length and eight feet in width;
            3.   Is constructed in accordance with the National Manufactured
Home Construction and Safety Standards; and
            4.   Is not constructed in accordance with the standards of the
North Carolina Uniform Residential Building Code for One- and Two-Family
Dwellings.
         (b)   CLASS AA. A manufactured home constructed after 7-1-1976 that
meets or exceeds the construction standards promulgated by the U.S. Department
of Housing and Urban Development that were in effect at the time of
construction, and that satisfies the following additional criteria:
            1.   Is occupied only as a single-family dwelling;
            2.   Has a minimum width of 16 feet;
            3.   Has a length not exceeding four times its width, with length
measured along the longest axis and width measured perpendicular to the longest
axis at the narrowest part;
            4.   Has a minimum of 700 square feet of enclosed and heated living
area;
            5.   Has the towing apparatus, wheels, axles and transporting
lights removed, and not included in length and width measurements;
            6.   Has the longest axis oriented parallel or within a ten-degree
deflection of being parallel to the lot frontage, unless other orientation is
permitted by the Board of Adjustment following a public hearing;
            7.   Is set up in accordance with the standards established by the
state’s Department of Insurance. In addition, a continuous, permanent masonry
foundation or masonry curtain wall constructed in accordance with the standards
of the North Carolina Uniform Residential Building Code for One- and Two-Family
Dwellings, unpierced except for required ventilation and access, shall be
installed under the perimeter;
            8.   Has exterior siding, comparable in composition, appearance
durability to the exterior siding commonly used in standard residential
construction, consisting of one or more of the following:
               a.   Vinyl or aluminum lap siding (whose reflectivity does not
exceed that of flat white paint);
               b.   Cedar or other wood siding;
               c.   Wood grain, weather-resistant pressboard siding;
               d.   Stucco siding; or
               e.   Brick or stone siding.
            9.   Has a roof pitch minimum vertical rise of three and one-half
feet for each 12 feet of horizontal run;
            10.   Has a roof finished with a Class C or better roofing material
that is commonly used in standard residential construction;
            11.   All roof structures shall provide an eave projection of no
less than six inches, which may include a gutter; and
            12.   Stairs, porches, entrance platforms, ramps and other means of
entrance and exit are installed or constructed in accordance with the standards
set by the state’s Building Code, attached firmly to the primary structure and
anchored securely to the ground. Wood stairs shall only be used in conjunction
with a porch or entrance platform with a minimum or 24 square feet. The use of
wood stairs only is prohibited at any entrance.
         (c)   CLASS A. A manufactured home constructed after 7-1-1976 that
meets or exceeds the construction standards promulgated by the U.S. Department
of Housing and Urban Development that were in effect at the time of
construction and that meet or exceed criteria in divisions (b)1., (b)3., (b)4.,
(b)5., (b)7., (b)8., (b)9., (b)11. and (b)12. above for Class AA manufactured
dwellings above.
         (d)   CLASS B. A manufactured home constructed after 7-1-1976 that
meets or exceeds the construction standards promulgated by the U.S. Department
of Housing and Urban Development that were in effect at the time of
construction, and that meet or exceed criteria in divisions (b)5., (b)7. and
(b)8. above for Class AA manufactured dwellings above.
         (e)   CLASS C. Any manufactured home that does not meet the above
definition and criteria of a Class AA, Class A or Class B manufactured
dwelling. CLASS C MANUFACTURED DWELLINGS, except those used as housing for
migrant labor as part of a bona fide farm operation and are certified for
migrant labor in accordance with Department of Labor regulations, are not
allowed to be located or placed in any zoning district as it does not meet the
construction standards of the state’s Building Code, nor those promulgated by
the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.
      MODULAR DWELLING. A dwelling constructed in accordance with the standards
set forth in the state’s Residential Building Code and composed of components
substantially assembled in a manufacturing plant and transported to the
building site for final assembly on a permanent foundation.
      MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING. A building or portion thereof used or designed as
a residence for three or more families living independently of each other with
separate housekeeping and cooking facilities for each, and includes apartment,
townhouses and residential condominiums.
      PRINCIPAL DWELLING. Any principal building or structure which is used and
designed for human habitation, including living, sleeping, cooking and eating
activities excluding dormitories, hotels, motels, shelters for the homeless or
other structures designed for transient residents.
      ROOMING UNIT. A room designed, occupied or intended for occupancy as
separate living quarters with sleeping, but not necessarily cooking and
sanitary facilities provided therein.
      SHELTER FOR THE HOMELESS. A facility operating year-round which provides
lodging and supportive services including, but not limited to: a community
kitchen; assistance in obtaining permanent housing; medical counseling,
treatment and/or supervision; psychological counseling, treatment and/or
supervision; assistance in recuperating from the effects of or refraining from
the use of drugs and/or alcohol; nutritional counseling; employment counseling;
job training and placement; and child care for indigent individuals and/or
families with no regular home or residential address; and which complies with
the following requirements:
         (a)   The facility shall be contained within the building and operated
by a government agency or non-profit organization;
         (b)   A minimum floor space of 50 square feet shall be provided for
each individual sheltered; and
         (c)   The facility operator(s) shall provide continuous on-site
supervision by an employee(s) and/or volunteer(s) during the hours of
operation.
      SHELTER, EMERGENCY. A facility providing, without charge, temporary
sleeping accommodations, with or without meals, for individuals and/or families
displaced from their residences as a result of sudden natural or human-made
catastrophe including, but not limited to, earthquake, fire, flood, tornado,
hurricane or the release of hazardous or toxic substance(s) into the
environment. Such a natural or human-made catastrophe must be designated by the
responsible local, state or federal official or an emergency agency such as the
American Red Cross or the Emergency Management Assistance Agency.
      SHELTER, TEMPORARY. A facility which provides temporary lodging during
times of life-threatening weather conditions for indigent individuals and/or
families with no regular home or residential address and which complies with
the following requirements:
         (a)   The facility shall be contained within the building of and
operated by a government agency or non-profit organization;
         (b)   A minimum floor space of 50 square feet shall be provided for
each individual sheltered; and
         (c)   The facility operator(s) shall provide continuous on-site
supervision by an employee(s) and/or volunteer(s) during the hours or
operation.
      SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED DWELLING. A separate, detached building designed
for and occupied exclusively by one family.
      SINGLE-ROOM OCCUPANCY (SRO) RESIDENCE. A building containing 25 or more
rooming units, which are available for rental occupancy for periods of seven
days or longer, in which on-site management is provided on a 24 hour basis. The
building shall contain common space such as recreation areas, lounges, living
rooms, dining rooms or other congregate living spaces at a rate of five square
feet per rooming unit, but totaling not less than 250 square feet. Bathrooms,
laundries, hallways, the main lobby, vending areas and kitchens shall not be
counted as common space. This term does not include boarding houses, tourist
homes, motels, hotels, private dormitories, congregate care facilities, family
care homes and group care facilities.
      TEMPORARY FAMILY HEALTH CARE STRUCTURE. The following definitions apply
when associated with temporary family health care structure.
         (a)   ACTIVITIES OF DAILY LIVING. Bathing, dressing, personal hygiene,
ambulation or locomotion, transferring, toileting and eating.
         (b)   CAREGIVER. A person 18 years of age or older who provides care
for a mentally or physically impaired person and is a first or second degree
relative of the mentally or physically impaired person for whom the individual
is caring.
         (c)   FIRST OR SECOND DEGREE RELATIVE. A spouse, lineal ascendant,
lineal descendant, sibling, uncle, aunt, nephew or niece and includes half,
step, in-law relationships or legal guardian.
         (d)   MENTALLY OR PHYSICALLY IMPAIRED PERSON. A person who is a
resident of the state and who requires assistance with two or more activities
of daily living as certified in writing by a physician licensed to practice in
the state.
         (e)   TEMPORARY FAMILY HEALTH CARE STRUCTURE. A transportable
residential structure, providing an environment facilitating a caregiver’s
provision of care for a mentally or physically impaired person that is
primarily assembled at a location other than its site of installation.
      TENANT DWELLING. A dwelling located on a bona fide farm, and occupied by
a farm worker employed for agricultural purposes by the owner, or operator of
the farm.
      TOWNHOUSE DWELLING. A building consisting of single-family residences
attached to one another in which each unit is located on an individually owned
parcel, generally within a development containing drives, walks and open space
in common area.
      TWIN HOME DWELLING. A building consisting of two single-family dwelling
units, each dwelling unit occupying its own conventional lot and conveyed by
deed, connected along a common party wall with no interior circulation between
the two.
      TWO-FAMILY DWELLING. A building on one zone lot arranged and designed to
be occupied by two families living independently of each other.
   (E)   Easements.
      ACCESS EASEMENT. An easement which grants the right to cross property.
      DRAINAGE EASEMENT. An easement which grants the right of water drainage
to pass in open channels or enclosed structures.
      DRAINAGE MAINTENANCE EASEMENT. An easement which grants to the governing
body the right to alter the typical drainage channel section and/or profile in
order to improve water flow.
      EASEMENT. A grant of one or more of the property rights, by the property
owner, to or for use by, the public, a corporation or other entities.
      PEDESTRIAN WAY. A right-of-way or easement dedicated to public use to
facilitate pedestrian access to adjacent streets and properties.
      SIGHT DISTANCE EASEMENT. An easement which grants to the governing body
the right to maintain unobstructed view across property located at a street or
lane intersection.
      UTILITY EASEMENT. An easement which grants to the governing body or other
utility providers the right to install and thereafter maintain any and all
utilities including, but not limited to, water lines, sewer lines, septic tank
drain fields, storm sewer lines, electrical power lines, telephone lines,
natural gas lines and community antenna television systems.
      WATER QUALITY CONSERVATION EASEMENT. A permanent easement in which no
structures or land-disturbing activities are allowed. The natural ground cover
and the natural tree canopy must be preserved with the following exceptions:
         (a)   The cutting or trimming of overcrowded trees is allowed;
provided that, no trees in excess of three inches in diameter as measured 12
inches or less from the ground are removed;
         (b)   Utilities and erosion-control structures can be constructed and
maintained;
         (c)   Normal maintenance by mechanical means is allowed for the
removal of dead, diseased, deformed, poisonous or noxious vegetation and pests
harmful to health; and
         (d)   Mechanical mowing of utilities areas is allowed to control
growth.
   (F)   Soil erosion and sedimentation control.
      ACT. The North Carolina Sedimentation Pollution Control Act of 1973, G.S.
§§ 113A-50 et seq., and all rules and orders adopted pursuant to it.
      ACTIVE CONSTRUCTION. Activities which contribute directly to the
completion of facilities contemplated or shown on the construction plans.
      BEING CONDUCTED. A land-disturbing activity has been initiated and
permanent stabilization of the site has not been completed.
      BERM, EROSION-CONTROL. A mound of material and/or ditch, the purpose of
which is to divert the flow of run-off water.
      BORROW. Fill material which is required for on-site construction and is
obtained from other locations.
      BUFFER. An area of land planted or constructed to separate uses.
      BUFFER ZONE. The strip of land adjacent to a lake or natural watercourse.
      COASTAL COUNTIES. The following counties are considered COASTAL COUNTIES:
Beaufort, Bertie, Brunswick, Camden, Carteret, Chowan, Craven, Currituck, Dare,
Gates, Hertford, Hyde, New Hanover, Onslow, Pamlico, Pasquotank, Pender,
Perquimans, Tyrrell and Washington.
      COMMISSION, SEDIMENTATION. The North Carolina Sedimentation Control
Commission.
      COMPLETION OF CONSTRUCTION OR DEVELOPMENT. No further land-disturbing
activity is required on a phase of a project; except that, which is necessary
for establishing a permanent ground cover.
      DEPARTMENT (DEHNR). The North Carolina Department of Environment, Health
and Natural Resources.
      DIRECTOR (DEHNR). The Director of the Division of Land Resources of the
Department of Environment, Health and Natural Resources.
      DISCHARGE POINT. The point at which runoff leaves a tract of land.
      DISTRICT, SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION. The Guilford Soil and Water
Conservation District created pursuant to G.S. Chapter 139.
      ENERGY DISSIPATOR. A structure or shaped channel section with mechanical
armoring placed at the outlet pipes or conduits to receive and break down the
energy from high velocity flow.
      EROSION. The wearing away of land surface by the action of wind, water,
gravity or any combination thereof.
      EROSION, ACCELERATED. Any increase over the rate of natural erosion as a
result of land-disturbing activities.
      EROSION-CONTROL MEASURE, STRUCTURE OR DEVICE, ADEQUATE. A device which
controls the soil material within the land area under responsible control of
the person conducting the land-disturbing activity.
      EROSION, NATURAL. The wearing away of the earth’s surface by water, wind
or other natural agents under natural environmental conditions undisturbed by
humans.
      GRADING. Any operation or occurrence by which the existing site
elevations are changed, or where any ground cover, natural or human-made, is
removed, or any buildings or other structures are removed, or any watercourse
or body of water, either natural or human-made, is relocated on any site,
thereby creating an unprotected area. The term GRADING is interchangeable with
LAND-DISTURBING ACTIVITY.
      GRADING, PHASE OF. One of the two types of grading: rough or fine.
      GRADING PLAN. The graphic plan, including narrative where appropriate,
required by this chapter as a prerequisite for a grading permit, the purpose of
which is to explain existing conditions and proposed grading of land including
any development, and to describe the activities and measures to be undertaken
to control accelerated soil erosion and sedimentation.
      GROUND COVER. Any vegetation, masonry, paving, riprap or other material
or materials which render the soil surface stable against accelerated erosion.
      HIGH QUALITY WATERS. Those classified as such in 15A NCAC 2B.0101(e)(5),
General Procedures, which is incorporated herein by reference to include
further amendments pursuant to G.S. § 150B-14(c).
      HIGH QUALITY WATER (HOW) ZONES. Areas in the coastal counties that are
within 575 feet of high quality waters and, for the remainder of the state,
areas that are within one mile and drain into HQWs.
      LAKE or NATURAL WATERCOURSE. Any stream, river, brook, swamp, sound, bay,
creek, run, branch, canal, waterway, estuary and any reservoir, lake or pond,
natural or impounded, in which sediment may be moved or carried in suspension,
and which could be damaged by accumulation of sediment.
      LAND-DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Any use of the land by any person or persons in
residential, industrial, educational, institutional or commercial development,
highway or road construction or maintenance, that results in a change in
natural cover or topography that may cause or contribute to sedimentation.
      PERSON CONDUCTING LAND-DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Any person who may be held
responsible for a violation unless expressly provided otherwise by this
chapter, the Act or any order adopted pursuant to this chapter or the Act.
      PERSON RESPONSIBLE FOR LAND-DISTURBING VIOLATION. As used in this chapter
and G.S. § 113A-64, a developer or other person who has or holds himself or
herself out as having financial or operational control over the land-disturbing
activity; or the landowner or person in possession or control of the land when
he or she has directly or indirectly allowed the land-disturbing activity or
has benefitted from it or he or she has failed to comply with any provision of
this chapter, the Act or any order adopted pursuant to this chapter or the Act
as imposes a duty upon him or her.
      PROTECTED AREA. Any ground surface area having established cover,
artificial or natural, of such density that not more than 20% of the soil
surface of any square yard of surface is exposed to the physical forces of
meteorological elements.
      SEDIMENT. Solid particulate matter, both mineral and organic, that has
been or is being transported by water, air, gravity or ice from its site of
origin.
      SEDIMENTATION. The process by which sediment resulting from accelerated
erosion has been or is being transported off the site of the land-disturbing
activity, or into a lake or natural watercourse.
      SILTATION. Sediment resulting from accelerated erosion which is
settleable or removable by properly designed, constructed and maintained
control measures; and which has been transported from its point of origin
within the site of a land-disturbing activity, and which has been deposited or
is in suspension in water.
      SITE or TRACT. All contiguous land and bodies of water being disturbed or
to be disturbed as a unit, regardless of ownership.
      TWENTY-FIVE-YEAR STORM. The surface runoff resulting from a rainfall of
an intensity expected to be equaled or exceeded, on the average, once in 25
years, and of a duration which will produce the maximum peak rate of runoff,
from the watershed of interest under average antecedent wetness conditions.
      UNCOVERED. The removal of ground cover from, on or above the soil
surface.
      UNDERTAKEN. The initiating of any activity, or phase of activity, which
results or will result in a change in the ground cover or topography of a tract
of land.
      UNPROTECTED AREA. Any ground surface area disturbed to such an extent
that 20% or more of the soil surface of any square is exposed to the physical
forces of meteorological elements.
      WASTE. Surplus materials resulting from on-site construction and disposed
of at other locations.
      WORKING DAYS. Days exclusive of Saturday and Sunday during which weather
conditions or soil conditions permit land-disturbing activity to be undertaken.
   (G)   Flood damage prevention.
      ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING BUILDING). An extension or increase in the floor
area or height of a building or structure.
      APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter. (This definition applies only
with respect to flood hazard regulations.)
      BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below
ground level) on all sides. (This definition applies only with respect to flood
hazard regulations.)
      BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year.
      BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). A determination of the water surface
elevations of the base flood as published in the flood insurance study. When
the BFE has not been provided in a “special flood hazard area”, it may be
obtained from engineering studies available from a federal or state or other
source using FEMA approved engineering methodologies. This elevation, when
combined with the “freeboard”, establishes the “regulatory flood protection
elevation”.
      CHEMICAL STORAGE FACILITY. A building, portion of a building or exterior
area adjacent to a building used for the storage of any chemical or chemically
reactive products.
      ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building which has its lowest elevated
floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls, posts, piers,
pilings or columns.
      ENCROACHMENT. The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, permanent structures or development into a floodplain, which may
impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain. (This definition applies
only with respect to flood hazard regulations.)
      EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A
manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) was
completed before the original effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by the community.
      FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or
complete inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland or
tidal waters; and/or the unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface
waters from any source.
      FLOOD INSURANCE. The insurance coverage provided under the National Flood
Insurance Program.
      FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, issued
by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which both the special flood
hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community are
delineated.
      FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). An examination, evaluation and determination
of flood hazards, corresponding water surface elevations (if appropriate),
flood hazard risk zones and other flood data in a community issued by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency. The FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY report includes
flood insurance rate maps (FIRMs) and flood boundary and floodway maps (FBFMs),
if published.
      FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from
any source.
      FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed to administer and
enforce the floodplain management regulations.
      FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. Any type of permit that is required in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter, prior to the commencement of
any development activity.
      FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective
and preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood-control works, floodplain management
regulations and open space plans.
      FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning
ordinances, subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations,
special purpose ordinances and other applications of police power which control
development in flood-prone areas. This term describes federal, state or local
regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards for preventing
and reducing flood loss and damage.
      FLOOD-PROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural
additions, changes or adjustments to structures, which reduce or eliminate
flood damage to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation
facilities, structures and their contents.
      FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent
land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
      FLOOD ZONE. A geographical area shown on a flood hazard boundary map or
flood insurance rate map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the
area.
      FREEBOARD. The height added to the base flood elevation (BFE) to account
for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater
than the height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions,
such as wave action, bridge openings and the hydrological effect of
urbanization on the watershed. The base flood elevation plus the FREEBOARD
establishes the “regulatory flood protection elevation”.
      FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY. A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located in close proximity to water, such as a
docking or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or
passengers, shipbuilding or ship repair. The term does not include long-term
storage, manufacture, sales or service facilities.
      HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG). The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface, prior to construction, immediately next to the proposed walls of the
structure.
      LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG). The elevation of the ground, sidewalk or
patio slab immediately next to the building, or deck support, after completion
of the building.
      LOWEST FLOOR. Lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or limited storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided that, such
an enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
      MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle”. (This definition
applies only with respect to flood hazard regulations.)
      MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels)
of land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale. (This
definition applies only with respect to flood hazard regulations.)
      MARKET VALUE. The building value, not including the land value and that
of any accessory structures or other improvements on the lot. MARKET VALUE may
be established by independent certified appraisal; replacement cost depreciated
for age of building and quality of construction (actual cash value); or
adjusted tax assessed values.
      MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of this chapter, the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) as corrected in 1929, the North American Vertical Datum
(NAVD) as corrected in 1988, or other vertical control datum used as a
reference for establishing varying elevations within the floodplain, to which
base flood elevations (BFEs) shown on a FIRM are referenced. Refer to each FIRM
panel to determine datum used.
      NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the “start of construction”
commenced on or after the effective date of the original version of the
community’s flood damage prevention ordinance and includes any subsequent
improvements to such structures. (This definition applies only with respect to
flood hazard regulations.)
      NON-ENCROACHMENT AREA. The channel of a river or other watercourse and
the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base
flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one
foot as designated in the flood insurance study report.
      POST-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the “start of
construction” occurred on or after the effective date of the initial flood
insurance rate map for the area.
      PRE-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the “start of
construction” occurred before the effective date of the initial flood insurance
rate map for the area.
      PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. That at least 51% of the actual cash value of
the structure is above ground.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV). A vehicle, which is:
         (a)   Built on a single chassis;
         (b)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
         (c)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
         (d)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
      REFERENCE LEVEL. The top of the lowest floor for structures within
special flood hazard areas designated as Zones A1-A30, AE, A or A99.
      REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. The “base flood elevation” plus
the “freeboard”. In special flood hazard areas where base flood elevations
(BFEs) have been determined, this elevation shall be the BFE, plus two feet of
freeboard. In special flood hazard areas where no BFE has been established,
this elevation shall be at least two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
      REMEDY A VIOLATION. To bring the structure or other development into
compliance with state and community floodplain management regulations or, if
this is not possible, to reduce the impacts of its non-compliance. Ways that
impacts may be reduced include protecting the structure or other affected
development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of the
ordinance or otherwise deterring future similar violations or reducing federal
financial exposure with regard to the structure or other development. (This
definition applies only with respect to flood hazard regulations.)
      RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook and the like.
      SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The land in the floodplain subject to a
1% or greater chance of being flooded in any given year, as determined in §
151.294 of this chapter.
      START OF CONSTRUCTION. Substantial improvement, and means the date the
building permit was issued; provided, the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement or other improvement was
within 180 days of the permit date. The actual START means either the first
placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a
basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part
of the building, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions
of the building. (This definition applies only with respect to flood hazard
regulations.)
      STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, a manufactured home or a gas,
liquid or liquefied gas storage tank that is principally above ground. (This
definition applies only with respect to flood hazard regulations.)
      SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure during
any one-year period whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before
damaged condition would equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the
structure before the damage occurred. See definition of “substantial
improvement”. SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE also means flood-related damage sustained by a
structure on two separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost
of repairs at the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or
exceeds 25% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
(This definition applies only with respect to flood hazard regulations.)
      SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
         (a)   Any combination of repairs, reconstruction, rehabilitation,
addition or other improvement of a structure, taking place during any one-year
period for which the cost equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the
structure before the “start of construction” of the improvement. This term
includes structures which have incurred “substantial damage”, regardless of the
actual repair work performed. The term does not, however, include either:
            1.   Any correction of existing violations of state or community
health, sanitary or safety code specifications which have been identified by
the community code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
            2.   Any alteration of a historic structure; provided that, the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
         (b)   This definition applies only with respect to flood hazard
regulations.
      VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications or
other evidence of compliance required in §§
151.067(E) and
151.299 through
151.303 of this chapter is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as that
documentation is provided. (This definition applies only with respect to flood
hazard regulations.)
      WATER SURFACE ELEVATION (WSE). The height, in relation to mean sea level,
of floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal
or riverine areas.
      WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
   (H)   General.
      ADDRESS. The official street number assigned by the jurisdiction for a
specific lot, building or portion thereof.
      AIRPORT AND FLYING FIELD, COMMERCIAL (PRINCIPAL USE). A public or private
establishment engaged in operating and maintaining, as a permitted principal
use, a general aviation airport or flying field. Such establishment may also
service aircraft and provide minor aircraft repair and maintenance; provide
aircraft storage and hangar facilities; and furnish coordinated handling
services for air freight or passengers.
      ASSEMBLY. A joining together of completely fabricated parts to create a
finished product.
      ATHLETIC FIELD. Outdoor sites, often requiring equipment, designed for
formal athletic competition in field sports (e.g., softball, soccer, football).
      AUTO WRECKING. A person that provides open storage, disassembling or
salvaging for more than two junked motor vehicles.
      AUTOMOBILE REPAIR SERVICES, MAJOR. An establishment primarily engaged in
one or more of the following activities:
         (a)   General repair or service;
         (b)   Engine repair;
         (c)   Installation or repair of transmissions;
         (d)   Installation or repair of automotive glass;
         (e)   Installation or repair or exhaust systems;
         (f)   Repair of tops, bodies and interiors; and
         (g)   Automotive painting and refinishing.
      AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR SERVICES, MINOR. An establishment primarily engaged in
one or more of the following activities:
         (a)   Diagnostic service and tune-ups;
         (b)   Installation or repair of air-conditioners, brakes, carburetors,
electrical systems, fuel systems, generators, starters and radiators;
         (c)   Lubricating service; and
         (d)   Front end and wheel alignment.
      BASEMENT. A story of a building or structure having one-half or more of
its clear height below grade.
      BLOCK. The land lying within an area bounded on all sides by streets.
      BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT. A quasi-judicial body, appointed by the governing
body, that is given certain powers under this chapter.
      BOARDING HOUSE. A dwelling or part thereof, in which lodging is provided
by the owner or operator to more than three boarders.
      CALIPER INCHES. Quantity in inches of the diameter of trees measured at
six inches above the ground for trees four inches or less in trunk diameter and
12 inches above the ground for trees over four inches in trunk diameter.
      CANOPY TREE. A species of tree which normally grows to a mature height of
40 feet or more with a minimum mature crown width of 30 feet.
      CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS. A statement issued by the jurisdiction
which states that the work proposed by the applicant is consistent with the
architectural and historic guidelines for the historic district in which the
property is located.
      CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE/OCCUPANCY. A statement, signed by the
Enforcement Officer, setting forth either that a building or structure complies
with the provisions of this chapter, or that building, structure or parcel of
land may lawfully be employed for specified uses, or both.
      COMMON AREA(S). All areas, including private streets, conveyed to an
owners’ association within a development or owned on a proportional undivided
basis in a condominium development.
      CONGREGATE CARE FACILITY. A facility providing shelter and services for
ambulatory individuals at least 55 years of age, who, by reason of their age,
functional impairment or infirmity, may require meals, housekeeping and
personal care assistance. CONGREGATE CARE FACILITIES do not include nursing
homes or similar institutions devoted primarily to the care of the chronically
ill or the incurable.
      COUNTY. Guilford County, North Carolina.
      CRITICAL ROOT ZONE. The rooting area of a tree established to limit root
disturbance, generally defined as a circle with a radius extending from a
tree’s trunk to the furthest point of the crown dripline.
      DAY. Any reference to DAYS shall mean calendar days unless otherwise
specified. A duration of days shall include the first and last days on which an
activity is conducted and all days in between, unless otherwise specified by
state law.
      DENSITY CREDIT. The potential for the development or subdivision of part
or all of a parcel of real property, as permitted under the terms of this
chapter, expressed in dwelling unit equivalents or other measures, or
development density or intensity, or a fraction or multiple of that potential
that may be transferred to other portions of the same parcel, or to contiguous
land that is part of a common development plan.
      DEVELOPER. A person engaging in development.
      DEVELOPMENT, DENSITY OF. The density of development shall be determined
using a gross acreage system. The total area of the tract, including areas to
be used for new streets, rights-of-way, drives, parking, structures, recreation
areas, dedicated areas and required setbacks, shall be used for density
calculations.
      DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited, to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
      DORMITORY, PRIVATE. A multiple unit residential accommodation which is
established directly or indirectly in association with a college, business
college, trade school or university, for the purpose of housing students
registered and attending such as institution. A PRIVATE DORMITORY may contain
food preparation and eating facilities primarily for the use of its occupants.
      DRIPLINE. A vertical line extending from the outermost portion of a
tree’s canopy to the ground.
      ESTABLISHMENT, ADULT-ORIENTED. An adult arcade, adult bookstore or adult
video store, adult cabaret, adult massage parlor, adult motel, adult motion
picture theater, adult theater, escort agency, nude model studio, sexual
encounter center or any combination of the foregoing or any like or similar
use.
      FAMILY. One or more persons occupying a dwelling unit and living as a
single household.
      FAMILY CARE HOME. A home meeting the state residential building code with
support and supervisory personnel that provides room and board, personal care
and habilitation services in a family environment for six or less resident
handicapped persons, pursuant to G.S. § 168-21.
      FENCE. A physical barrier or enclosure consisting of wood, stone, brick,
block, wire, metal or similar material, used as a boundary or means of
protection or confinement, but not including a hedge or other vegetation.
      FLOOR AREA, GROSS. The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several
floors of a building measured from the exterior face of exterior walls, or from
the centerline of a wall separating two buildings, but not including interior
parking spaces, loading space for motor vehicles, or any space where the floor-
to-ceiling height is less than six feet.
      FLYING FIELD, PRIVATE (ACCESSORY USE). A private airstrip used for
individual aircraft take off and landing that is:
         (a)   Located on the same lot with a permitted principal use;
         (b)   Intended for the exclusive use of the owner;
         (c)   Subject to all accessory use requirements of §
151.099(D) of this chapter; and
         (d)   That cannot be used or operated as a commercial airport.
      GRADE, FINISHED. The final elevation of the ground surface after
development.
      GRADE, NATURAL. The elevation of the ground surface in its natural state
before human-made alterations.
      GREENWAY. Public open space owned and maintained by the local government
which has been designated on an officially adopted greenway plan.
      GROUP CARE FACILITY. A facility licensed by the state (by whatever name
it is called, other than “family care home”, as defined by this chapter), with
support and supervisory personnel that provides room and board, personal care
or habilitation services in a family environment for not more than 30 people.
      GROUP DEVELOPMENT. A development in which, in lieu of division of a tract
of land into separate lots of record for separate principal buildings, a tract
of land is divided into two or more principal building sites for the purpose of
building development (whether immediate or future) and occupancy by separate
families, firms, businesses or other enterprises.
      HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
         (a)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places
(a listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior), or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
         (b)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district, or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
         (c)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places; and
         (d)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified:
            1.   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
Interior; or
            2.   Directly by the Secretary of Interior in states without
approved programs.
      HOME OCCUPATION. Any use conducted entirely within a dwelling and carried
on by the occupants thereof, which use is incidental and secondary to the use
of the dwelling for residential purposes and does not change the character
thereof.
      JUNK/SALVAGE YARD. Any land or area used, in whole or in part, for the
storage, keeping or accumulation of material, including scrap metals, waste
paper, rags or other scrap materials, or used building materials, for the
dismantling, demolition or abandonment of automobiles or other vehicles or
machinery or parts thereof.
      LANDFILL, BENEFICIAL FILL AREA.
         (a)   A disposal site that meets all of the following conditions:
            1.   The fill material consists only of inert debris strictly
limited to concrete, brick, concrete block, uncontaminated soil, rock and
gravel;
            2.   The fill activity involves no excavation;
            3.   The fill activity will cover two acres or less and be in
operation one year or less; and
            4.   The purpose of the fill activity is to improve land use
potential or other approved beneficial reuses.
         (b)   Any disposal site not meeting all the requirements listed above
shall be considered a land clearing and inert debris (LCID) landfill.
      LANDFILL, CONSTRUCTION OR DEMOLITION DEBRIS (C-D) (MAJOR). A disposal
site, other than a minor construction or demolition landfill, for solid waste
resulting from construction, remodeling, repair or demolition operations on
pavement, buildings or other structures, and which complies with all zoning and
special use permit requirements of this chapter.
      LANDFILL, CONSTRUCTION OR DEMOLITION DEBRIS (C-D) (MINOR). A disposal
site for solid waste that meets the following criteria:
         (a)   The waste results solely from construction, remodeling, repair
or demolition operations on pavement, buildings or other structures located on
the same property and under the same ownership, and does not include inert
debris, land-clearing or yard trash; and
         (b)   The disposal site must be one acre or less.
      LANDFILL, LAND CLEARING AND INERT DEBRIS (LCID) (MAJOR). A disposal site
other than a minor land clearing and inert debris landfill, as defined in this
chapter, for stumps, limbs, leaves, concrete, brick, wood and uncontaminated
earth. Disposal of any other types of wastes must be approved by the state’s
Division of Solid Waste Management.
      LANDFILL, LAND CLEARING AND INERT DEBRIS (LCID) (MINOR).
         (a)   A disposal site that meets all of the following conditions:
            1.   The fill material consists of debris strictly limited to
concrete, brick, concrete block, uncontaminated soil, rock, gravel, limbs,
leaves and stumps. Disposal of any other types of wastes must be approved by
the state’s Division of Solid Waste Management; and
            2.   The fill activity will cover two acres or less, be in
operation three years or less; provided that, the Planning Board may, upon
request, grant one or more three-year renewals, and have direct access to a
state maintained paved road; provided that, the Planning Board may grant a
waiver to the paving requirement upon reasonable conditions.
         (b)   Any disposal site not meeting all the requirements listed above
shall be considered a major land clearing and inert debris (LCID) landfill.
      LANDFILL, SANITARY/SOLID WASTE. A site for solid waste disposal from
residential, industrial or commercial activities.
      MANUFACTURED DWELLING PARK. A group development site with required
improvements and utilities for the long-term location of manufactured dwellings
which may include services and facilities for the residents.
      MANUFACTURED DWELLING SPACE. A designated area of land within a
manufactured dwelling park designed for the accommodation of a single
manufactured dwelling home in accordance with the requirements of this chapter.
      MIXED DEVELOPMENT. A mixture of residential and permitted office and/or
commercial uses in the GB, HB, SC and CP Districts.
      MOTOR VEHICLE, BUSINESS AND PERSONAL USE OF. A motor vehicle used for
transportation at least once every seven days.
      MOTOR VEHICLE, JUNKED. A motor vehicle that does not display a current
license plate and is one or more of the following: is partially dismantled of
wrecked; or cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it
originally was intended to move; or more than five years old and appears to be
worth less than $100; provided that, any motor vehicle used on a regular basis
for business or personal use shall not be caused to be removed or disposed;
except that, a JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE that is not visible from the public right-
of-way or from an adjoining property shall be excluded from this definition.
      NON-CONFORMING. A lot, structure, sign or use of land, which is now
prohibited under the terms of this chapter, but was lawful at the date of this
chapter’s enactment, or any amendment or revision thereto.
      NON-CONFORMING LOT(S). A lot of record that does not conform to the
dimensional requirements of the zoning district in which it is located. The
non-conformity may result from adoption of this chapter or any subsequent
amendment.
      NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURE(S). A structure that does not conform to the
requirements of this chapter. The non-conformity may result from adoption of
this chapter or any subsequent amendment.
      NON-CONFORMING USE. A use which once was a permitted use on a parcel of
land or within a structure, but which is not now a permitted use. The non-
conformity may result from the adoption of this chapter or any subsequent
amendment.
      NURSING HOME. An establishment which provides full-time convalescent or
chronic care, or both, to persons who are not related by blood or marriage to
the operator, or who, by reason of advanced age, chronic illness or infirmity,
are unable to care for themselves.
      OWNER. A holder of any legal or equitable estate in the premises, whether
alone or jointly with others, and whether in possession or not.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture,
public or private corporation, trust, estate, commission, board or public or
private institution, utility, cooperative, interstate body or other legal
entity.
      PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. An area of land under unified ownership or
control to be developed and improved as a single entity under a unified
development plan in accordance with and subject to the requirements of this
chapter.
      PLANNING DEPARTMENT. The Planning and Development Department of Guilford
County.
      PLAT. A surveyed map or plan of a parcel of land which is to be, or has
been subdivided.
      PLAT, FINAL. The final map of all or a portion of a subdivision or site,
showing the boundaries and location of lots, streets, easements and any other
requirements of §§
151.335 through
151.337 of this chapter, which is presented for local government approval and
subsequent recordation in the county’s Register of Deeds office.
      PLAT, PRELIMINARY. A map indicating the proposed layout of the
subdivision or site showing lots, streets, water, sewer, storm drainage and any
other requirements of §§
151.335 through
151.337 of this chapter, which is presented for preliminary approval.
      PLAN, SKETCH. A rough sketch map of a proposed subdivision or site,
showing streets, lots and any other information required in §§
151.335 through
151.337 of this chapter of sufficient accuracy to be used for discussion of the
street system and the proposed development pattern.
      PRIVATE SEWER. A system which provides for collection and/or treatment of
wastewater from a development, or property, and which is not maintained with
public funds.
      PRIVATE WATER. A system which provides for the supply and/or distribution
of potable water for use by a development, project or owner, and which is not
operated or maintained by a government organization or utility district.
      PUBLIC SEWER. A system which provides for the collection and treatment of
sanitary sewage from more than one property and is owned and operated by a
government organization or sanitary district.
      PUBLIC WATER. A system which provides distribution of potable water for
more than one property and is owned and operated by a government organization
or utility district.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is built on a single chassis,
designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty vehicle,
and designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK. Any site or tract of land, of contiguous
ownership, upon which 15 or more recreational vehicles or tent spaces are
provided for occupancy according to the requirements set forth in this chapter.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE SPACE. A plot of land within a recreational vehicle
park designed for the accommodation of one recreational vehicle in accordance
with the requirements set forth in this chapter.
      RECYCLING COLLECTION POINT. An incidental use that serves as a
neighborhood drop-off point for temporary storage of recoverable resources.
      RECYCLING PROCESSING CENTER. A facility used for collection and
processing of recyclable materials. “Processing” means the preparation of
materials for efficient shipments, or to an end-user’s specification, by such
means as baling, briquetting, compacting, flattening, grinding, crushing,
sorting, shredding and cleaning.
      RESERVATION. An obligation shown on a plat or site plan to keep property
free from development and available for public acquisition for a stated period
of time. It is not a dedication or conveyance.
      ROOF LINE. The top edge of the roof or the top of the parapet, whichever
forms the top line of the building silhouette.
      RURAL PRESERVATION DEVELOPMENT. Rural preservation development is
intended to accommodate rural developments that preserve rural character,
significant human-made features and environmentally sensitive areas. RURAL
PRESERVATION DEVELOPMENT permits open space, recreational, agricultural and
residential uses that are part of a unified design.
      SALVAGE YARD, AUTO PARTS. Any establishment listed in the Standard
Industrial Classification Manual under Industry Number 5015. Also, any land or
area used, in whole or part, for the storage, keeping, accumulation,
dismantling, demolition or abandonment of inoperable vehicles or parts
therefrom.
      SALVAGE YARD, SCRAP PROCESSING. Any establishment listed in the Standard
Industrial Classification Manual under Industry Number 5093. Also, any land or
area used, in whole or part, for the storage, keeping, accumulation of scrap or
waste materials, including scrap metals, waste paper, rags, building materials,
machinery or other scrap materials.
      SEATING CAPACITY. The actual seating capacity of an area based upon the
number of seats, or one seat per 18 inches of bench or pew length. For other
areas where seats are not fixed, the SEATING CAPACITY shall be determined as
indicated by the state’s Building Code.
      SITE SPECIFIC DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A plan of land development submitted to
the appropriate approval authority for the purpose of obtaining one of the
following zoning or land use permits or approvals pursuant to G.S. § 154A-
334.1:
         (a)   A special use permit;
         (b)   A conditional zoning sketch or site plan;
         (c)   A planned development, residential or planned development, mixed
unified development plan;
         (d)   A preliminary plat for a major subdivision;
         (e)   A major site plan prepared in accordance with §
151.075 of this chapter, but not including a master or common sign plan, a
watershed development plan or a landscaping plan;
         (f)   A preliminary plat for a minor subdivision;
         (g)   A plot plan;
         (h)   A minor site plan in accordance with §
151.075 of this chapter;
         (i)   A master or common sign plan prepared in accordance with §
151.145(H) of this chapter;
         (j)   A watershed development plan prepared in accordance with §
151.250(E) of this chapter; or
         (k)   A landscaping plan prepared in accordance with §§
151.335 through
151.337 of this chapter.
      SLOPE. An inclined ground surface, the inclination of which is expressed
as a ratio of horizontal distance to vertical distance, commonly expressed as
“two to one”, and “one and one-half to one” and the like.
      SOIL SCIENTIST. The soil scientist of Guilford County or his or her
designated agent(s).
      SOLID WASTE. Garbage, refuse and other discarded solid materials.
      SUBDIVIDER. Any person who subdivides land.
      SUBDIVISION. All divisions of a tract or parcel of land into two or more
lots, building sites or other divisions when any one or more of those divisions
is created for the purpose of sale or building development (whether immediate
or future), and includes all division of land involving the dedication of a new
street or a change in existing streets; however, the following are not included
within this definition and are not subject to any subdivision approval
regulations in this chapter:
         (a)   The combination or recombination of a portion of previously
subdivided and recorded lots if the total number of lots is not increased, and
the resultant lots are equal to or exceed the standards of this chapter;
         (b)   The division of land into parcels greater than ten acres if no
street right-of-way dedication is involved;
         (c)   The public acquisition by purchase of strips of land for the
widening or opening of streets; and
         (d)   The division of a tract in single ownership, the entire area of
which is not greater than two acres into not more than three lots, if no street
right-of-way dedication is involved and if the resultant lots are equal to or
exceed the standards of this chapter.
      SUBDIVISION, MAJOR. A subdivision involving more than four lots, or
requiring new public street(s) for access to interior property, or requiring
extension of public sewer or water line, or requiring a waiver or variance from
any requirement of this chapter.
      SUBDIVISION, MINOR (PRIVATE). A subdivision involving not more than four
lots, all or some of which may have access on a private lane.
      SUBDIVISION, MINOR (PUBLIC). A subdivision involving not more than four
lots fronting on an existing approved public street(s), not requiring any new
public street(s) for access to interior property, not requiring extension of
public sewer or water line.
      SWIMMING POOL. A water-filled enclosure, permanently constructed or
portable, having a depth of more than 18 inches below the level of the
surrounding land or an above-surface pool, having a depth of more than 30
inches designed, used and maintained for swimming and bathing.
      SWIMMING POOL, NON-PERMANENT. A swimming pool that is so constructed that
it may be readily disassembled for storage and reassembled to its original
integrity.
      TENANT. Any person who alone, or jointly, or severally with others, or
occupies a building under a lease or holds a legal tenancy.
      TOURIST HOME. A private residence in which accommodations are provided
for lodging and may include meals for overnight guests for a fee.
      TRACT. All contiguous land and bodies of water in one ownership, or
contiguous land and bodies of water in diverse ownership, being developed as a
unit, although not necessarily all at one time.
      UNDERSTORY TREE. A species of tree which normally grows to a mature
height of 15 to 35 feet in height.
      USE. The purpose or activity for which land or structures is designed,
arranged or intended, or for which land or structures are occupied or
maintained.
      USE, MIXED. Occupancy of building or land by more than one use.
      USE, ACCESSORY(S). A structure or use that:
         (a)   Is clearly incidental to and customarily found in connection
with a principal building or use;
         (b)   Is subordinate to and serves a principal building or a principal
use;
         (c)   Is subordinate in area, extent or purpose to the principal
building or principal use served;
         (d)   Contributes to the comfort, convenience, or necessity of
occupants, business or industry, in the principal building or principal use
served; and
         (e)   Is located on the same zone lot as the principal building or use
served.
      USE(S), PRINCIPAL. The primary purpose or function that a lot or
structure serves or is proposed to serve.
      VARIANCE. Official permission from the Board of Adjustment to depart from
the requirements of this chapter.
      WAIVER. Official permission from any designated body, other than the
Board of Adjustment, to depart from the requirements of this chapter.
      WALL, RETAINING. A structure, either masonry, metal or treated wood,
designed to prevent the lateral displacement of soil, rock, fill or other
similar material.
      ZONING DISTRICT. An area defined by this chapter and delineated on the
Official Zoning Map, in which the requirements for the use of land, and
building, and development standards are prescribed.
      ZONING VESTED RIGHT. A right pursuant to G.S. § 153A-344.1 to undertake
and complete the development and use of property under the terms and conditions
of an approved site development plan.
   (I)   Hazardous waste.
      DISPOSAL (OF HAZARDOUS OR TOXIC SUBSTANCE(S)). The destruction,
discharge, deposit, injection, dumping, spilling, leaking or placing of any
hazardous waste or toxic substance into or on any air, land or water.
      DISPOSAL FACILITY. A facility or part of a facility at which hazardous
waste or toxic substance is intentionally placed into or on any land or water,
and at which hazardous waste or toxic substance will remain after closure.
      HAZARDOUS WASTE GENERATOR. Any person whose act or process produces
hazardous waste or toxic substance identified or listed in part 261 of the
state’s Hazardous Waste Management Rules, or whose act first causes a hazardous
waste or toxic substance to become subject to regulation; provided that,
“generator” does not include a facility which accepts hazardous waste or toxic
substances for the purpose of treatment, storage or disposal, and in that
process creates a different hazardous waste or toxic substance.
      HAZARDOUS OR TOXIC SUBSTANCE. Any solid waste as defined in G.S. § 130A-
290(18), or any substance regulated under the Federal Toxic Substance Control
Act of 1976 (Pub. Law No. 94-476), as amended from time to time, which because
of its quantity, concentration or physical chemical or infectious
characteristic(s) may:
         (a)   Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in serious
irreversible or incapacitating illness; or
         (b)   Pose a substantial present or potential threat to the
environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of or
otherwise managed.
      HAZARDOUS WASTE LONG-TERM STORAGE FACILITY. Any facility or any portion
of a facility constructed for storage of the residuals of the treatment of
hazardous waste, on or in land.
      HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT. The systematic control of the collection,
source separation, storage, transportation, processing, treatment, recovery and
disposal of hazardous wastes.
      HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT FACILITY. A facility which is established and
operated for the recovery, recycling, treatment, storage during collection and
prior to treatment, short-term storage after treatment, collection, processing,
volume reduction, source separation or transportation used exclusively in
connection with the facility, of hazardous waste; and which facility includes
several of the following equipments and processes: incinerators, rotary kilns,
drum handling, washing and crushing facilities, raw waste tank storage,
reduction, neutralization, detoxification, wastewater treatment facilities,
including settling systems, aerobic digesters, anaerobic digesters, clarifiers,
neutralization facilities, solidifying facilities, evaporators, reactions to
facilitate “reuse” or recycling, analytical capabilities and other similar
appropriate technologies, activities and processes as may now exist or be
developed in the future.
      LONG-TERM RETRIEVABLE STORAGE OF HAZARDOUS WASTE. The storage in closed
containers in facilities (either above or below ground) with adequate lights;
impervious cement floors; strong visible shelves or platforms; passageways to
allow inspection at any time; adequate ventilation if underground or in closed
buildings; protection from the weather; accessible to monitoring with signs on
both individual containers and sections of storage facilities; and adequate
safety and security precautions for facility personnel, inspectors and invited
or permitted members of the community.
   (J)   Lot.
Figure 3: Measurement of Lot Depth and Lot Width (No Scale)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/becb2f9c6e5d0add85cd879a02d64c74e71e8c8f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-736.png]
 
       BUILDABLE OR ZONE LOT. One or more lots of record in one undivid ed
ownership with sufficie nt total area, exclusi ve of easements, flood hazards,
well and septic tank fields; sufficie nt total dimensi ons; and access to
permit construction thereon of a principal building together with its required
parking and planting yards.
      CORNER LOT. A lot abutting two or more streets at their intersection.
      FLAG LOT.
         (a)   A lot, created by a subdivision, with less street frontage than
is required by §§
151.095 through
151.105 of this chapter, and composed of a narrow “flagpole” strip extending
from the street and a much wider “flag” section lying immediately behind a lot
or lots having the required street frontage for a conventional lot.
         (b)   In the case of a FLAG LOT, the lot line at the end of the flag
pole lying generally parallel to the street to which the flagpole connects
shall be considered to be the front lot line for setback purposes.
      LOT. A portion of a subdivision or any other parcel of land intended as a
unit for transfer of ownership, or for development or both. The word LOT
includes PLOT, PARCEL or TRACT.
      LOT COVERAGE. The portion of a lot covered by buildings(s) and/or
structure(s).
      LOT DEPTH. The distance measured along the perpendicular bisector of the
smallest possible rectangle enclosing the lot. See Figure 4 below.
      LOT OF RECORD. A lot, plot, parcel or tract recorded in the office of the
Register of Deeds in conformance with the ordinance(s) in effect at the time of
recordation.
      LOT WIDTH. The mean width measured at right angles to its depth at the
building line. See Figure 4 below.
      REVERSE FRONTAGE LOT. A through lot which is not accessible from one of
the parallel or non-intersecting streets upon which it fronts.
      THROUGH LOT. A lot abutting two streets that do not intersect at the
corner of the lot.
      TOWNHOUSE LOT. A parcel of land intended as a unit for transfer of
ownership, and lying underneath, or underneath and around, a townhouse, patio
home, or unit in nonresidential group development.
   (K)   Setback.
Figure 4: Determination of Building Setbacks (No Scale)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/becb2f9c6e5d0add85cd879a02d64c74e71e8c8f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-738.png]
 
       INTERIOR SETBACK. A setback from any property line not alongside a
street.
      STREET SETBACK. Any setback from a street, road, or lane.
      REAR SETBACK. A setback from an interior property line lying on the
opposite side of the lot from the front street setback.
      SETBACK. The minimum required horizontal distance between a structure or
activity and the property line, street right-of-way line or street centerline.
      SIDE SETBACK. Any interior property line setback other than a rear
setback.
      ZERO SIDE SETBACK.
         (a)   An alternate form of dimensional requirements that allows a
dwelling unit to have one side setback of zero from a side property line.
         (b)   This definition does not include townhouses.
   (L)   Signs.
Figure 5: Types of Signs (No Scale)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/becb2f9c6e5d0add85cd879a02d64c74e71e8c8f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-740.png]
 
      ANIMATED SIGN . Any si n which flashes, revolves, rotates or swings by
mechanical means, or which uses a change of lighting to depict action, or to
create a special effect or scene.
      BANNER. A temporary sign of lightweight fabric or similar material which
is rigidly mounted to a pole or a building by a rigid frame at two or more
edges. National flags, state or municipal flags or the official flag of any
institution or business shall not be considered BANNERS.
      BUILDING MARKER. A sign indicating the name of a building and date and
incidental information about its construction, which sign is cut into a masonry
surface, or made of bronze or other permanent material.
      CANOPY SIGN. Any sign which is a part of or attached to an awning, canopy
or other fabric-like or plastic protective structure which is extended over a
door, window or entranceway. A marquee is not a CANOPY.
      COMMERCIAL MESSAGE. Any sign wording, logo or other representation that
directly or indirectly, names, advertises or calls attention to a business,
product, service or other commercial activity. This definition does not include
company nameplates or logos on instructional signs.
      DIRECTIONAL SIGN. Any sign with no commercial message that indicates the
direction to churches, hospitals, colleges and similar institutional uses.
      ELECTRONIC CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN. A sign on which the copy changes
automatically on a lampbank, such that the message or display does not run
continuously in the travel mode, and any message or display remains stationary
for a minimum or one second on streets where the speed limit is 55 mph or
greater, or two seconds on streets where the speed limit is less than 55 mph.
Any sign on which the message or display runs continuously in the travel mode
and/or on which any message or display does not remain stationary for a minimum
of one second on streets where the speed limit is 55 mph or greater, or two
seconds on streets where the speed limit is less than 55 mph, shall be
considered a “flashing sign”.
      FLASHING SIGN. A type of animated sign which contains an intermittent,
blinking, scintillating or flashing light source, or which includes the
illusion of intermittent or flashing light or an externally mounted
intermittent light source. An electronic changeable copy sign is not a FLASHING
SIGN.
      FREESTANDING SIGN. Any sign which is supported by structures or supports
which are placed on, or anchored in the ground, and which structures or
supports are independent from any building or other structure.
      GOVERNMENTAL SIGN. Any sign erected by or on behalf of a governmental
body to post a legal notice, identify public property, convey public
information and direct or regulate pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
      IDENTIFICATION SIGN. Any sign used to display: the name, address, logo or
other identifying symbol of the individual, family, business, institution,
service, or organization occupying the premises; the profession of the
occupant; the name of the building on which the sign is attached; or directory
information in group developments or buildings with multiple tenants.
      INFORMATION BOARD. Signs which display messages in which the copy may be
arranged or rearranged by hand.
      INSTRUCTIONAL SIGN. Any sign with no commercial message that provides
assistance with respect to the premises on which it is maintained, or for the
instruction, safety or convenience of the public such as “entrance”, “exit”,
“one way”, “telephone”, “parking” and similar information.
      MARQUEE. Any permanent roof-like structure projecting beyond a building
or extending along and projecting beyond the wall of the building, generally
designed and constructed to provide protection from the weather.
      MARQUEE SIGN. Any sign attached to, in any manner, or made a part of a
marquee.
      MULTI-TENANT BUILDING. A building that is used for two or more
occupancies; provided, each occupancy is separated by construction having fire-
resistive ratings in compliance with the state’s Building Code.
      NON-CONFORMING SIGN. Any sign which does not conform to size, height,
location, design, construction or other requirements of this chapter. The non-
conformity may result from adoption of this chapter or any subsequent
amendment.
      PENNANT. Any lightweight plastic, fabric or other material, whether or
not containing a message of any kind, suspended from a rope, wire or string,
usually in series, designed to move in the wind.
      PLAYBILL. Any sign announcing entertainment offered, or to be offered, at
a business location on the site where the sign is displayed.
      PORTABLE SIGN. Any sign not permanently attached to the ground or other
permanent structure, or a sign designed to be transported, including, but not
limited to, signs: designed to be transported by means of wheels; converted to
A- or T-Frames; menu and sandwich board signs; gas or hot-air filled balloons;
umbrellas used for advertising; signs attached to or painted on vehicles parked
and visible from the public right-of-way, unless said vehicle is used in the
normal day to day operation of the business.
      PROJECTING SIGN. Any sign which is end mounted or otherwise attached to
an exterior wall of a building which forms an angle with said wall.
      ROOF SIGN. Any sign erected and constructed wholly on and over the roof
on a building, supported by the roof structure and extending vertically above
the highest portion of the roof.
      SIGN. Any object, device, display or structure, or part thereof, which is
used to advertise, identify, display, direct or attract attention to an object,
person, institution, organization, business, product, service, event or
location by any means, including, but not limited to, words, letters, pennants,
banners, emblems, trademarks, trade names, insignias, numerals, figures,
design, symbols, fixtures, colors, illumination or projected images or any
other attention directing device.
      SIGN OWNER. Any person holding legal title or legal right to occupy or
carry on business in a structure or any facility, and shall include each and
every person who shall have title to or benefit of a sign, or for whose benefit
any type sign is erected or maintained. Where there is more than one owner, as
defined, their duties and obligations under this chapter are joint and several,
and shall include the responsibility for such sign.
      SPECIAL PROMOTION. An advertising activity or circumstance of a business
which is not part of its daily activities or normal routine, and in which the
display or sale of merchandise, wares, or other tangible items is the sole
purpose for the promotion. SPECIAL PROMOTIONS include grand openings or
closeout sales, but do not include reoccurring sales advertisements or other
similar publicity.
      SUSPENDED SIGN. A sign which is suspended from the underside of a
horizontal plane surface and is supported by such surface.
      TEMPORARY SIGN. Any sign that is displayed for a limited period of time
and is not permanently mounted.
      TEMPORARY EVENT. An activity sponsored by a governmental, charitable,
civic, educational, religious, business or trade organization which is
infrequent in occurrence and limited in duration. Examples include arts and
crafts shows, athletic events, community festivals, carnivals, fairs, circuses,
concerts, conventions, exhibitions, trade shows, outdoor religious events and
other similar activities.
      VEHICLE SIGN. Any sign on a vehicle which is parked in a location which
is visible to the public, and for a period of time which indicates that the
principal use of the vehicle is for advertising rather than transport.
      WALL SIGN. Any sign attached parallel to, painted on the wall surface of,
or erected and confined within the limits of the outside wall, mansard roof
structure, penthouse or parapet of any building or structure, which is
supported by such wall, building or structure, but does not extend vertically
above the highest portion of the roof, and which displays only one sign
surface.
      WARNING SIGN. Any sign with no commercial message that displays
information pertinent to the safety or legal responsibilities of the public
such as signs warning or high voltage, “no trespassing” and similar directives.
      WINDOW SIGN. Any sign, pictures, symbols, or combination thereof,
designed to communicate information about an activity, business, commodity,
event, sale or service, placed inside a window or upon the window panes or
glass and which is visible from the exterior of the window.
   ( M)   Streets, drives and lanes. See Figure 6. (The numbers in parenthesis
indicate the street classific ation, with “(1)” being the highest and “(9)”
being the lowest.)
Figure 6: Street Classifications (No Scale)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/becb2f9c6e5d0add85cd879a02d64c74e71e8c8f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-742.png]
 
      ALLEY. A roadway which affords only a secondary means of access to
abutting property.
      COLLECTOR STREET (3). A street whose principal function is to carry
traffic between cul-de-sac, local, and subcollector streets, and streets of
higher classification, but which may also provide direct access to abutting
properties.
      COLLECTOR STREET PLAN. A plan, adopted by the governing body, for streets
not shown on the thoroughfare plan, showing collector and, if appropriate,
lower classification streets in the planning area.
      CUL-DE-SAC STREET (6). A short local street having one end open to
traffic and the other end permanently terminated by a vehicular turnaround.
      LOCAL STREET (5). A street whose primary function is to provide access to
abutting properties.
      MAJOR THOROUGHFARE STREET (1). Major thoroughfares consist of interstate,
other freeway, expressway or parkway links, and major streets that provide for
the expeditious movement of high volumes of traffic within and through urban
areas.
      MINOR THOROUGHFARE STREET (2). Minor thoroughfares collect traffic from
collector, subcollector, and local streets and carrying it to the major
thoroughfare system. MINOR THOROUGHFARES may be used to supplement the major
thoroughfare system by facilitating movement of moderate volumes of traffic
within and through urban areas and may also serve abutting property.
      PRIVATE DRIVE (9). A vehicular travelway not dedicated or offered for
dedication as a public street, providing access to parking lot(s) for two or
more principal buildings in a group housing or group non-residential
development.
      PRIVATE LANE (8). A private cul-de-sac for vehicular traffic serving four
or fewer residential lots in a minor subdivision and maintained pursuant to
G.S. § 136-102.6.
      PRIVATE STREET (7). A vehicular travelway not dedicated or offered for
dedication as a public street, but resembling a cul-de-sac or a local street by
carrying traffic from a series of driveways to the public street system.
      PUBLIC STREET.
         (a)   A dedicated public right-of-way for vehicular traffic which:
            1.   Has been accepted by NCDOT for maintenance; or
            2.   Is not yet accepted, but in which the roadway design and
construction have been approved under public standards for vehicular traffic.
         (b)   Alleys are specifically excluded.
      STREET RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied
by a travelway for vehicles and also available, with the consent of the
appropriate governmental agency, for installation and maintenance of sidewalks,
traffic-control devices, traffic signs, street name signs, historical marker
signs, water lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm sewer lines, gas lines, power
lines and communication lines.
      SUBCOLLECTOR STREET (4). A street whose principal function is to provide
access to abutting properties, but which is also designed to be used or is used
to connect local streets with collector or higher classification streets.
      THOROUGHFARE PLAN. A plan adopted by the governing body for the
development of existing and proposed major streets that will adequately serve
the future travel needs of an area in an efficient and cost effective manner.
   (N)   Historic districts.
      CONTRIBUTING STRUCTURE. A structure listed as historically and
architecturally significant in the Oak Ridge design guidelines.
      MAJOR WORK. Work activities which could result in a substantial or
irreversible alteration to the general exterior appearance of a structure, its
grounds or site when viewed from the street right-of-way; therefore, requiring
design review and approval of a certificate of appropriateness by the Historic
Preservation Commission.
      MINOR WORK. Work activities which do not result in a substantial or
irreversible alteration to the general exterior appearance of a structure, its
grounds or site when viewed from the street right-of-way; therefore, not
requiring design review by the Historic Preservation Commission, but requiring
approval of a certificate of appropriateness by the Enforcement Officer.
      NON-CONTRIBUTING STRUCTURE. A structure listed as not historically and
architecturally significant in the Oak Ridge design guidelines.
      ROUTINE MAINTENANCE. Work activities not already listed under minor or
major work and which include ordinary repair and replacement when there is no
change in the design, materials or general exterior appearance of a structure,
its grounds or a site when viewed from the street right-of-way; therefore, not
requiring design review or application for a certificate of appropriateness.
   (O)   Farm definitions.
      BONA FIDE FARM. Bona fide farm purposes include the production and
activities relating or incidental to the production of crops, grains, fruits,
vegetables, ornamental and flowering plants, dairy, livestock, poultry and all
other forms of agriculture.
         (a)   AGRICULTURE includes, but is not limited to, the production,
harvesting, cultivation of crops, fruits, vegetables, ornamental/flowering
plants, shrubs, the planting and production of trees and timber, the operation,
management, raising, care, and training of dairy, livestock, poultry, bees,
horses and aquaculture, and grain warehouse operations where grain is held ten
days or longer as well as any associated structure or building related to the
agriculture operation. When performed on the BONA FIDE FARM, AGRICULTURE also
includes the marketing and selling of agricultural products, agritourism,
packing, treating, processing, sorting, storage and other activities performed
to add value to agricultural items produced on the farm.
         (b)   For purposes of determining whether a property is being used for
BONA FIDE FARM purposes, any of the following shall constitute sufficient
evidence that the property is being used for BONA FIDE FARM purposes (the
burden of proof lies with the owner of the subject property or a designated
agent):
            1.   A copy of the property tax listing showing that the property
is participating in the farm present-use-value taxation program established by
G.S. §§ 105-277.2 through 105-277.7;
            2.   A copy of the farm owner’s or operator’s Schedule F from the
owner’s or operator’s federal income tax return;
            3.   A farm sales tax exemption certificate issued by the
Department of Revenue;
            4.   A forest management plan; or
            5.   A Farm Identification Number issued by the United States
Department of Agriculture Farm Service Agency.
      FARM BUILDING. A structure meeting the definition of a farm building,
greenhouse, primitive camp or primitive farm building, as defined by G.S. §
143-138.
         (a)   A FARM BUILDING shall include any structure used or associated
with equine activities, including, but not limited to, the care, management,
boarding or training of horses and the instruction and training of riders.
Structures that are associated with equine activities include, but are not
limited to, free standing or attached sheds, barns or other structures that are
utilized to store any equipment, tools, commodities or other items that are
maintained or used in conjunction with equine activities. The specific types of
equine activities, structures and uses set forth in this subdivision are for
illustrative purposes, and should not be construed to limit, in any manner, the
types of activities, structures or uses that may be considered under this
division as exempted from building rules. A FARM BUILDING that might otherwise
qualify for exemption from building rules shall remain subject only to an
annual safety inspection by the county’s Building Inspection Department of any
grandstand, bleachers or other spectator-seating structures in the farm
building. An annual safety inspection shall include an evaluation of the
overall safety of spectator-seating structures as well as ensuring the
spectator-seating structure’s compliance with any building codes related to the
construction of spectator-seating structures in effect at the time of the
construction of the spectator seating.
         (b)   A GREENHOUSE is a structure that has a glass or plastic roof,
has one or more glass or plastic walls, has an area over 95% of which is used
to grow or cultivate plants, is built in accordance with the “National
Greenhouse Manufacturers Association Structural Design Manual” and is not used
for retail sales.
         (c)   A FARM BUILDING shall include any structure used for the display
and sale of produce, no more than 1,000 square feet in size, open to the public
for no more than 180 days per year and certified by the Department of
Agriculture and Consumer Services as a certified roadside farm market.
         (d)   1.   A PRIMITIVE CAMP shall include any structure primarily used
or associated with outdoor camping activities, including structures used for
educational, instructional or recreational purposes for campers and for
management training, that are:
               a.   Not greater than 4,000 square feet in size; and
               b.   Are not intended to be occupied for more than 24 hours
consecutively.
            2.   “Structures primarily used or associated with outdoor camping
activities” include, but are not limited to, shelters, tree stands, outhouses,
sheds, rustic cabins, campfire shelters, picnic shelters, tents, tepees or
other indigenous huts, support buildings used only for administrative functions
and not for activities involving campers or program participants, and any other
structures that are utilized to store any equipment, tools, commodities or
other items that are maintained or used in conjunction with outdoor camping
activities such as hiking, fishing, hunting or nature appreciation, regardless
of material used for construction.
            3.   The specific types of primitive camping activities, structures
and uses set forth in this division are for illustrative purposes and should
not be construed to limit, in any manner, the types of activities, structures
or uses that are exempted from building rules.
         (e)   A PRIMITIVE FARM BUILDING shall include any structure used for
activities, instruction, training or reenactment of traditional or heritage
farming practices. PRIMITIVE FARM BUILDINGS include, but are not limited to,
sheds, barns, outhouses, doghouses or other structures that are utilized to
store any equipment, tools, commodities, livestock or other items supporting
farm management. These specific types of farming activities, structures and
uses set forth by this division are for illustrative purposes and should not be
construed to limit in any manner the types of activities, structures or uses
that are exempted from building rules.
         (f)   A FARM BUILDING shall not lose its status as a farm building
because it is used for public or private events, including, but not limited to,
weddings, receptions, meetings, demonstrations of farm activities, meals and
other events that are taking place on the farm because of its farm or rural
setting.
(Ord. passed 5-18-2006(1); Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 2-1; Ord. passed 5-17-
2007(1); Ord. passed 11-17-2011(2); Ord. passed 10-23-2016(1); Ord. passed 8-
14-2025)
**** ADMINISTRATION ****
§ 151.025 GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   General. The governing body shall provide for the manner in which the
provisions of this chapter shall be determined, established and enforced, and
amended, supplemented or changed. A board within the context of this chapter
shall mean any board, commission or agency empowered therein. Any updates to
regulation must occur by ordinance and not by resolution.
   (B)   Notice.
      (1)   Rezoning, variance, approved waiver, certificate of appropriateness
for a major work or watershed modification. Whenever there is a request for a
zoning map amendment, special use permit, variance, certificate of
appropriateness for a major work, watershed map amendment, watershed
modification or an approved waiver involving a parcel of land, the owner of
that parcel of land as shown on the county tax listing, and the owners of all
parcels of land adjoining and contiguous to that parcel of land as shown on the
county tax listing as well as nearby properties separated by a street, railroad
or other transportation corridor, shall be mailed a notice of the proposed
request or approved waiver.
         (a)   Notice shall be by first class mail to the last addresses listed
for such owners on the county tax abstracts.
         (b)   The person or persons mailing such notices shall certify to the
governing body that proper notice has been given (mailed at least ten days, but
not more than 25 days prior to the hearing) and such certification shall be
deemed conclusive in the absence of fraud.
         (c)   In the case of comprehensive rezoning of all property within the
jurisdiction, notice shall be mailed as required by G.S. § 160D-601.
         (d)   Notice of such proposed action shall also be published at least
ten days, but no more than 25 days prior to the hearing on the county website
for the publication of public notices in lieu of a newspaper notice as allowed
by NC Session Law 2017-210 and the county e-notice publication agreement
between the town and county dated October 17, 2024.
         (e)   Each site shall be posted in a conspicuous location(s) with the
time, date and notice of public hearing. Posting on site shall not be required
in the case of comprehensive rezoning.
         (f)   In the case of a waiver approved by the Planning Board pursuant
to §
151.131 of this chapter, notice of the approved waiver and appeal rights shall
be made by first class mail to the owner(s) of the parcel of land affected by
the approved waiver and the owners of all parcels of land adjoining and
contiguous to that parcel of land as shown on the county tax listing.
      (2)   Text amendment and appeal. Whenever there is a request for an
action involving a text amendment to this chapter or an appeal of an
interpretation of this chapter, a notice of such proposed action shall be
published at least ten days, but no more than 25 days prior to the hearing on
the county website for the publication of public notices in lieu of a newspaper
notice as allowed by NC Session Law 2017-210 and the county e-notice
publication agreement between the town and county dated October 17, 2024.
      (3)   Board approval of subdivision or site plan. Whenever there is a
request for an action involving a subdivision or site plan requiring a board
approval under this chapter, the meeting of the designated board shall have an
agenda duly posted in accordance with the state’s Open Meetings Statutes.
   (C)   Organization. The governing body shall require that each of the boards
provided for by this chapter adopt rules and maintain records.
      (1)   Rules of conduct. Each board shall adopt rules necessary to conduct
its affairs and to establish board organization, committees, procedures,
meeting notice and meeting conduct.
      (2)   Conformance of rules. Such rules adopted by the board shall be in
accordance with state law and the provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   Election and terms of officers. Unless otherwise provided by this
chapter, a chairperson and vice chairperson of the board shall be elected by
members of the board to serve a one- year term. The secretary does not have to
be a member of the board.
      (4)   Record of meetings. The board shall keep minutes of its
proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon every question or, if absent
or failing to vote, indicate such fact. The board shall also keep records of
its examinations and other official actions. All such records and minutes shall
be public record.
   (D)   Alternate members.
      (1)   Inclusion of alternates. The governing body may appoint alternate
members to serve in the absence of regular members.
      (2)   Powers and duties. Each alternate member, attending a meeting of
the board and serving in the absence of a regular member, has and may exercise
all the powers and duties of a regular member.
   (E)   Terms.
      (1)   Length of terms. Members and alternate members, of the board shall
serve a term of three years; provided that, upon initial appointment the terms
of office may be staggered. The terms of all board members shall not expire at
the same time.
      (2)   Maximum consecutive terms. Regular members shall not serve more
than two consecutive full terms.
      (3)   Filling of vacancies. Vacancies created by resignation or other
causes shall be filled as follows:
         (a)   A new member or an alternate member may be appointed to fill the
unexpired term of the member so vacating.
         (b)   Members filling vacancies shall serve for the remainder of the
unexpired term.
   (F)   Compensation. Compensation, if any, for board members may be provided
for by the governing body.
   (G)   Conflict of interest; all governing or appointed Board members and
administrative staff. No member of the Board or staff shall seek to influence a
decision, participate in any action or cast a vote involving any matter that is
before the Board where the outcome of the matter being considered is reasonably
likely to have a direct, substantial and readily identifiable financial impact
on the member. An appointed or elected Board member shall not vote on any
legislative, quasi-judicial or any other development approval if the landowner
of the property subject to a petition or the applicant for a development
approval request is a person with whom the member has a close familial,
business or other associational relationship (see G.S. § 160D-109(f)) which may
result in a private benefit to the member, relative or their business interest.
In applying this rule, the following procedure shall govern.
      (1)   A member who determines there exists a conflict of interest shall
declare the existence of a conflict and shall refrain from any deliberation on
the matter.
      (2)   A member who believes there may exist a conflict of interest shall
declare his or her possible conflict and ask for a determination by the Board.
A majority vote of the Board shall determine whether or not a conflict of
interest exists.
      (3)   A challenge of the existence of a conflict of interest or a
challenge of an undisclosed conflict of interest may be filed by any interested
party with the Board. Such a challenge may be an appeal for a review of the
finding of the Board or may be for the purpose of alleging an undeclared
conflict of interest. Any challenges made to the Board shall be supported by
competent evidence and shall be submitted to a property convened meeting of the
Board. The Board shall hear all evidence and shall, by majority vote, make the
final determination as to the existence of a conflict of interest.
      (4)   Withdrawal from participation in any matter is necessary only in
those specific cases in which a conflict arises. There shall be no attempt to
exclude entire categories of considerations because of the business or
profession with which a member is associated.
   (H)   Oath of office. All members appointed to the Board, before starting
their duties, must take an oath of office as required by G.S. § 160D-309.
(Ord. passed 5-18-2006(1); Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 9-1; Ord. passed 8-14-
2025)
§ 151.026 PLANNING BOARD.
   (A)   Authority. There is hereby created a planning agency, pursuant to G.S.
§ 160D-301, known as the “Planning Board”.
   (B)   Membership. The Planning Board shall consist of at least five members
and may have alternates, appointed by the Town Council.
   (C)   Powers and duties. The Planning Board shall have the following powers
and duties:
      (1)   To hear and recommend to the Town Council matters in accordance
with the terms of this chapter; zoning map amendments, text amendments, and
zoning vested rights;
      (2)   To hear and recommend to the Town Council matters on appeal from
the Enforcement Officer for soil erosion; to wit: subdivisions, site plans and
soil erosion plans;
      (3)   To hear and recommend to the Town Council matters pertaining to
road name changes, road closings, right-of-way vacations, easement removals,
right-of-way encroachments and watershed matters as assigned;
      (4)   To provide recommendations to the Town Council with regard to any
of the above matters which may be appealed; as well as those matters which
remain with the Town Council as original jurisdiction such as text amendments
and minor watershed modifications in the WCA;
      (5)   To develop and make recommendations to the Town Council on a
comprehensive plan for the town;
      (6)   When conducting a review of proposed zoning text or map amendments,
the Planning Board shall comment on whether the proposed action is consistent
with the comprehensive plan.
         (a)   The Planning Board shall provide a written recommendation to the
Town Council that addresses plan consistency and other matters as deemed
appropriate by the Planning Board, but a comment by the Planning Board that a
proposed amendment is inconsistent with the comprehensive plan shall not
preclude consideration or approval of the proposed amendment by the Town
Council.
         (b)   For zoning map amendments, a statement of reasonableness must be
included in the consistency statement.
         (c)   If a zoning map amendment qualifies as a large-scale rezoning
under G.S. § 160D-602(b), the Planning Board statement describing plan
consistency may address the overall rezoning and describe how the analysis and
policies in the relevant adopted plans were considered in the recommendation
made.
      (7)   To make such other studies and plans and review such other related
matters as directed by the Town Council;
      (8)   To review and recommend to the Town Council new or altered plans
including: subdivisions, clustered or attached residential development, planned
unit developments, office, commercial and industrial developments, street and
utility improvements and other proposals for development specified by this
chapter and waivers authorized in §§
151.120 through
151.132 of this chapter; and
      (9)   To exercise other powers and authority provided to it by the Town
Council, this chapter or state law.
   (D)   Conflict of interest. See §
151.025(G) for disclosure and procedures.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 9-2; Ord. passed 10-23-2016(1); Ord. passed 8-14-
2025)
§ 151.027 HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION.
   (A)   Authority. There is hereby created, pursuant to G.S. § 160D-303, a
Historic Preservation Commission. Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-949, nothing in this
chapter shall affect the status of any historic district or historic property
established or designated under the authority of G.S. Chapter 160DA, part 4;
such establishment or designation being prior to the effective date of this
chapter. Nothing in this chapter shall affect the validity of the county’s
Joint Historic Properties Commission created by ordinance dated 6-16-1980.
   (B)   Membership.
      (1)   Number of members. The Historic Preservation Commission shall be
composed of at least seven members.
      (2)   District representation. Each existing historic district shall be
represented by not more than one person on the Historic Preservation
Commission, and the remaining membership shall be composed of persons who have
demonstrated an interest in the preservation of historic structures,
architectural history or archaeology.
      (3)   Designation. The county’s Joint Historic Properties Commission is
designated to perform the duties of a historic preservation commission.
   (C)   Powers and duties. The Historic Preservation Commission shall have the
following powers and duties:
      (1)   To review, analyze and recommend to the Planning Board, items which
pertain to existing and potential historic districts and individual structures,
buildings, sites or objects to be designated by ordinance as “landmarks”;
      (2)   To undertake an inventory of properties of historical,
prehistorical, architectural and/or cultural significance;
      (3)   To recommend designation or removal of the designation of “historic
district” for any area within the jurisdiction of the governing body. Such
designation or removal shall follow an investigation and a report describing
the significance of the structures, site features or surroundings in the
district;
      (4)   To grant or deny the issuance of a certificate of appropriateness
in accordance with this chapter. The Commission may hold public hearings on the
issuance or revocation of such certificates;
      (5)   To recommend appropriate changes to this chapter which relate to a
historic district or which relate to the preservation of historic structures,
landmarks or areas within the jurisdiction of the governing body;
      (6)   To acquire by lawful means the fee or any lesser included interest,
including options to purchase, to properties within established districts or to
any such properties designated as landmarks; to hold, manage, preserve, restore
and improve the same; and to exchange or dispose of the property by public or
private sale, lease or otherwise, subject to covenants or other legally binding
restrictions which will secure appropriate rights of public access and promote
the preservation of the property;
      (7)   To restore, preserve and operate historic properties;
      (8)   To recommend to the governing body that designation of any area as
a historic district or part thereof, or designation of any building, structure,
site, area, or object as a landmark, be revoked or removed for cause;
      (9)   To conduct an educational program with respect to historic
properties and districts within its jurisdiction;
      (10)   To prepare and recommend for adoption a preservation element as a
part of the jurisdiction’s comprehensive plan;
      (11)   To negotiate at any time with the owner of a building, structure,
site, area or object for its acquisition or its preservation, when such action
is reasonably necessary or appropriate;
      (12)   To enter, solely in performance of its official duties and only at
reasonable times, upon private lands for examination or survey thereof.
However, no member, employee or agent or the Historic Preservation Commission
may enter any private building or structure without the express consent of the
owner or occupant thereof;
      (13)   To review and act upon proposals for alterations, demolitions or
new construction within historic districts, or for the alterations or
demolition of designated landmarks, pursuant to this section; and
      (14)   To exercise such other powers as may be given it by law or
assigned to it by the governing body.
   (D)   Conflict of interest. See §
151.025(G) for disclosure and procedures.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 9-3; Ord. passed 8-14-2025)
§ 151.028 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Authority. A Board of Adjustment is hereby established pursuant to
G.S. § 160D-302. All activities of the Board will be conducted as a quasi-
judicial hearing as outlined in G.S. § 160D-406.
   (B)   Membership.
      (1)   Number of members. The Board of Adjustment shall consist of at
least five members and may have alternates as appointed by the governing body.
      (2)   Governing body serving as Board of Adjustment. If the governing
body chooses not to appoint members to the Board of Adjustment, it shall sit as
the Board of Adjustment subject to the provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   Powers and duties. The Board of Adjustment shall have the following
powers and duties:
         (a)   To hear and decide appeals from and review any order,
requirement, decision, determination or interpretation made by an
administrative official charged with enforcing this chapter;
         (b)   To review appeals from the proceedings of the Historic
Preservation Commission concerning the issuance of a certificate of
appropriateness, limited to certiorari;
         (c)   To hear and decide any exceptions which are specifically
delegated to it by this chapter;
         (d)   To determine and vary application of zoning regulations in
harmony with their general purpose and intent and in accordance with general
and specific rules contained therein;
         (e)   To hear and decide appeals for variances from the zoning
provisions of this chapter in cases where special conditions would make strict
and literal interpretation and enforcement of the zoning provisions of this
chapter result in a loss of privileges shared by other properties within the
same zoning district;
         (f)   To interpret zoning maps and pass upon disputed questions of
district boundary lines and similar questions that may occur in the
administration of this chapter;
         (g)   To hear and decide all matters referred to it or upon which it
is required to pass under this chapter; and
         (h)   To determine upon application of an owner or upon referral from
the Enforcement Officer whether a proposed non-conforming use is equal or less
intensive than an existing, legal non-conforming use, in accordance with §
151.078 of this chapter.
   (C)   Voting.
      (1)   Required vote for approval. A four-fifths vote of its members shall
be required for a Board of five members to grant a variance from the provisions
of this chapter.
      (2)   Simple majority. A simple majority of its members shall be required
to:
         (a)   Affirm or reverse any order, wholly or partly, modify a
requirement, decision, determination or interpretation of an administrative
officer charged with enforcing this chapter; and
         (b)   Decide in favor of the applicant on a matter upon which the
Board is required to pass under this chapter.
      (3)   Vote of the Chairperson. The Board Chairperson shall vote as any
other Board member.
      (4)   Delay of decision. The Board may, in its discretion, direct that
its decision be delayed to a date or time subsequent to the Board’s vote on an
appeal.
      (5)   Conflict of interest. See §
151.025(G) for disclosure and procedures.
   (D)   Court review.
      (1)   Appeal to superior court. Each decision of the Board shall be
subject to superior court review by proceedings in the nature of certiorari.
      (2)   Timing of appeal.
         (a)   Any petition for review by the superior court shall be filed
with the clerk of superior court within 30 days after the decision of the Board
is filed in the Planning or Building Inspections Department; or
         (b)   After a written copy thereof is delivered to every aggrieved
party who has filed a written request for such copy with the Secretary or
Chairperson of the Board at the time of its hearing of the case, whichever is
later.
   (E)   Notice of decision. The decision of the Board may be delivered to the
aggrieved party either by personal service or by registered mail return receipt
requested.
   (F)   Oaths. The Chairperson of the Board or any member temporarily acting
as Chairperson, shall administer oaths to witnesses in any matter coming before
the Board.
   (G)   Appeals to the Board.
      (1)   Appeal eligibility. Any person aggrieved or any officer,
department, board or bureau of the jurisdiction may make an appeal.
         (a)   Appeals shall be made within the time prescribed by the Board by
general rule, by filing with the officer from whom the appeal is taken and with
the Board a notice of appeal, specifying the grounds thereof.
         (b)   The officer from whom the appeal is taken shall forthwith
transmit to the Board all documents and exhibits constituting the record from
which such action was taken.
      (2)   Effect of appeal. An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of
the action appealed from, unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken
certifies to the Board, after notice of appeal has been filed with him or her,
that because of facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in the officer’s
opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property or that because the violation
charged is transitory in nature a stay would seriously interfere with
enforcement of this chapter.
      (3)   Effect of certification. If certification occurs in accordance with
division (G)(2) above, proceedings may not be stayed, except by a restraining
order, which may be granted by a court of competent jurisdiction. Notice of the
restraining order shall be given in writing to the officer from whom the appeal
is taken.
      (4)   Notice of hearing. The Board shall fix a reasonable time for
hearing the appeal, give due notice of the appeal to the parties and decide the
appeal within a reasonable time.
      (5)   Action of Board. The Board may reverse or affirm, in whole or in
part, or may modify the order, requirement, decision or determination or
interpretation appealed from, and shall make any order, requirement, decision,
determination or interpretation that, in the Board’s opinion, ought to be made
under in the circumstances.
      (6)   Conditions of rehearing. The Board shall not be required to hear an
appeal or application previously denied if it finds that there has been no
substantial change in conditions or circumstances bearing on the appeal or
application.
   (H)   Variances.
      (1)   Application. An application for a variance shall be submitted in
writing to the Board by filling a copy of the application with the Enforcement
Officer.
      (2)   Procedure. The Board shall:
         (a)   Fix a reasonable time for holding a public hearing on the
variance request and conduct the hearing as a quasi-judicial hearing as
outlined in G.S. § 160D-406;
         (b)   Give notice of the variance request as prescribed in §
151.025(B) of this chapter; and
         (c)   Decide the variance request within a reasonable time.
      (3)   Grounds for variance.
         (a)   The Board shall make findings of fact that the requirements of
division (H)(4) below have been met by the applicant.
         (b)   The variance requested is the minimum variance that will make
possible the reasonable use of the land, building or structure. The fact that
property may be utilized for greater profit, however, will not be considered
adequate to justify the granting of a variance.
         (c)   The Board shall not, under any circumstances, grant a variance
to permit a use or densify not otherwise permitted by this chapter in the
zoning district involved.
         (d)   Neither the non-conforming use of lands, buildings or structures
in the same zoning district, nor the permitted use of lands, buildings or
structures in other zoning districts shall be considered as grounds for the
issuance of a variance. Furthermore, mere financial hardship does not
constitute grounds for the granting of a variance.
         (e)   A variance may be granted where a building permit has been
issued and, due to unintentional error of the Enforcement Officer in
determining the location of the structure on the property, there is a minimal
violation of the dimensional requirements; provided that, such relief may be
granted without substantially impairing the purpose and intent of this chapter.
      (4)   Granting of variance. A variance may be granted by the Board if
evidence presented by the applicant persuades it to reach the following
conclusions:
         (a)   Unnecessary hardship would result from the strict application of
the chapter. It shall not be necessary to demonstrate that, in the absence of
the variance, no reasonable use can be made of the property;
         (b)   The hardship results from conditions that are peculiar to the
property, such as location, size or topography. Hardships resulting from
personal circumstances as well as hardships resulting from conditions that are
common to the neighborhood or the general public, may not be the basis for
granting a variance. A variance may be granted when necessary and appropriate
to make a reasonable accommodation under the Federal Fair Housing Act for a
person with a disability;
         (c)   The hardship did not result from actions taken by the applicant
or the property owner. The act of purchasing property with knowledge that
circumstances exist that may justify the granting of a variance shall not be
regarded as a self-created hardship; and
         (d)   The requested variance is consistent with the spirit, purpose
and intent of this chapter, such that public safety is secured, and substantial
justice is achieved.
      (5)   Conditions. In granting a variance, the Board may prescribe such
reasonable and appropriate conditions and safeguards as will assure that the
use of the property to which the variance applies will be compatible with
surrounding properties and will not alter the essential character of the
neighborhood.
         (a)   Violations of such conditions and safeguards, when a part of the
terms under which the variance is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this
chapter.
         (b)   A variance granted subject to a condition shall be permitted
only so long as there is compliance with the condition.
         (c)   If a violation of a condition of a variance occurs, the
Enforcement Officer may revoke the certificate of occupancy.
         (d)   In the event that any such condition is held invalid, for any
reason, such holding shall have the effect of invalidating the variance granted
and shall render the variance null and void.
      (6)   Duration. The variance may be issued for an indefinite duration or
for a specified duration only. Unless otherwise specified, construction or
operation shall be commenced within 12 months of the date of issuance of a
variance or the variance shall become void.
   (I)   Flood hazard appeals.
      (1)   Authority. The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide appeals
and requests for variances from the requirements of the flood-control
provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Appeal and variance considerations. In passing upon such
applications, the Board of Adjustment shall consider all technical evaluations,
all relevant factors, all standards specified in other sections of this
chapter, and:
         (a)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
         (b)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         (c)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         (d)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility
to the community;
         (e)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
         (f)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to
flooding or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
         (g)   The comparability of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
         (h)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for that area;
         (i)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         (j)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site;
         (k)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges; and
         (l)   The effect that granting the appeal or variance would have on
the jurisdiction’s eligibility for federal flood insurance.
      (3)   Appeal and variance considerations. In passing upon variances, the
Appeal Board shall consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors,
all standards specified in other sections of this chapter, and:
         (a)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
         (b)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         (c)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         (d)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility
to the community;
         (e)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location as
defined under §
151.014 of this chapter as a functionally dependent facility, where applicable;
         (f)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to
flooding or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
         (g)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
         (h)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for that area;
         (i)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         (j)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
         (k)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
      (4)   Granting of variances.
         (a)   The repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon the
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure’s continued designation as a historic structure and that the variance
is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure;
         (b)   Functionally dependent facilities if determined to meet the
definition as stated in §
151.014 of this chapter; provided, provisions of §
151.029(I) of this chapter have been satisfied, and such facilities are
protected by methods that minimize flood damages; and
         (c)   Any other type of development; provided, it meets the
requirements stated in this section.
      (5)   Report. A written report addressing each of the above factors shall
be submitted with the application for a variance.
      (6)   Conditions. Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the
purposes of this chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the
granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this
chapter.
      (7)   Written notice. Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall
be given written notice specifying the difference between the base flood
elevation (BFE) and the elevation to which the structure is to be built and
that such construction below the base flood elevation increases risks to life
and property, and that the issuance of a variance to construct a structure
below the base flood elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood
insurance up to $25 per $100 of insurance coverage. Such notification shall be
maintained with a record of all variance actions, including justification for
their issuance.
      (8)   Records. The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of
all appeal actions and report any variances to the federal emergency management
agency and the state upon request.
      (9)   Conditions for variances.
         (a)   Variances shall not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other federal, state or local laws, regulations or
ordinances.
         (b)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway or
non-encroachment area if the variance would result in any increase in flood
levels during the base flood discharge.
         (c)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
         (d)   Variances shall only be issued prior to development permit
approval.
         (e)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
            1.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
            2.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship; and
            3.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not
result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety or
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (10)   Issuance. A variance may be issued for solid waste disposal
facilities, hazardous waste management facilities, salvage yards and chemical
storage facilities that are located in special flood hazard areas; provided
that, all of the following conditions are met.
         (a)   The use serves a critical need in the community.
         (b)   No feasible location exists for the use outside the special
flood hazard area.
         (c)   The reference level of any structure is elevated or flood-
proofed to at least the regulatory flood protection elevation.
         (d)   The use complies with all other applicable federal, state and
local laws.
         (e)   The town has notified the Secretary of the state’s Department of
Crime Control and Public Safety of its intention to grant a variance at least
30 calendar days prior to granting the variance.
(Ord. passed 5-18-2006(1); Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 9-4; Ord. passed 5-17-
2007(1); Ord. passed 11-19-2013(1); Ord. passed 8-14-2025)
§ 151.029 ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   Establishment and authority.
      (1)   The Town Clerk, hereinafter referred to as the “Floodplain
Administrator”, is hereby appointed to administer and implement the provisions
of this chapter.
      (2)   The governing body shall appoint Enforcement Officer(s) to
administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter. The Enforcement Officer
may be provided with such agents to assist in the administration and
enforcement as the governing body directs. The County Planning and Development
Department is hereby appointed as the Enforcement Officer to administer and
enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   General duties. The Enforcement Officer shall:
      (1)   Establish and publish application procedures for permits, appeals
and actions pursuant to this chapter and forms implementing the same;
      (2)   Issue permits and certificates pursuant to this chapter;
      (3)   Review and approve all development plans and permits to assure that
the permit requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
      (4)   Interpret the applicability of the provisions of this chapter in
matters where the text does not clearly provide guidance;
      (5)   Maintain all records pertaining to the provisions of this chapter
in his or her office(s) and make said records open for public inspection;
      (6)   Periodically inspect properties and activities for which permits
have been issued to determine whether the use(s) is being conducted in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter;
      (7)   Cause to be investigated violations of this chapter;
      (8)   Enforce the provisions of this chapter;
      (9)   Issue notice of corrective action(s) when required;
      (10)   Use the remedies provided in this chapter to gain compliance;
      (11)   Be authorized to gather evidence in support of said activities;
      (12)   Receive appeals and forward cases to the appropriate body; and
      (13)   Perform other duties as may be assigned by the governing body.
   (C)   Flood Hazard Administrator duties. An Enforcement Officer, hereinafter
referred to as the “Floodplain Administrator”, is hereby appointed to
administer and implement the provisions of this chapter. The Floodplain
Administrator shall perform, but not be limited to, the following duties:
      (1)   Review all floodplain development applications and issue permits
for all proposed development within special flood hazard areas to assure that
the requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
      (2)   Advise permittee that additional federal or state permits
(wetlands, endangered species, erosion and sedimentation control, riparian
buffers, mining and the like) may be required, and require that copies of such
permits be provided and maintained on file with the floodplain development
permit;
      (3)   Notify adjacent communities and the state’s Department of Crime
Control and Public Safety, Division of Emergency Management, State Coordinator
for the National Flood Insurance Program prior to any alteration or relocation
of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA);
      (4)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished;
      (5)   Prevent encroachments into floodways and non-encroachment areas
unless the certification and flood hazard reduction provisions of §
151.302 of this chapter are met;
      (6)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the
reference level (including basement) and all attendant utilities of all new or
substantially improved structures, in accordance with §
151.072(D) of this chapter;
      (7)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which
all new and substantially improved structures and utilities have been flood-
proofed, in accordance with §
151.072(D) of this chapter;
      (8)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of all
public utilities in accordance with §
151.072(D) of this chapter;
      (9)   When flood-proofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
certifications from a registered professional engineer or architect in
accordance with §§
151.072(D) and
151.300(B) of this chapter;
      (10)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
boundaries of the special flood hazard areas (for example, where there appears
to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions), make
the necessary interpretation. The person contesting the location of the
boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation
as provided herein;
      (11)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data has not been provided in
accordance with §
151.294 of this chapter, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any base flood
elevation (BFE) data, along with floodway data or non-encroachment area data
available from a federal, state or other source, including data developed
pursuant to §
151.301(B)(2) of this chapter, in order to administer the provisions of this
chapter;
      (12)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is provided but no floodway
nor non-encroachment area data has been provided in accordance with §
151.294 of this chapter, obtain, review and reasonably utilize any floodway
data or non-encroachment area data available from a federal, state or other
source in order to administer the provisions of this chapter;
      (13)   When the lowest ground elevation of a parcel or structure in a
special flood hazard area is above the base flood elevation, advise the
property owner of the option to apply for a letter of map amendment (LOMA) from
FEMA. Maintain a copy of the letter of map amendment (LOMA) issued by FEMA in
the floodplain development permit file;
      (14)   Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the
administration of this chapter and make these records available for public
inspection;
      (15)   Make on-site inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant
to a floodplain development permit progresses, the Floodplain Administrator
shall make as many inspections of the work as may be necessary to ensure that
the work is being done according to the provisions of the local ordinance and
the terms of the permit. In exercising this power, the Floodplain Administrator
has a right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises
within the jurisdiction of the community at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action;
      (16)   Issue stop-work orders as required. Whenever a building or part
thereof is being constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in violation
of this chapter, the Floodplain Administrator may order the work to be
immediately stopped. The stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to
the person doing the work. The stop-work order shall state the specific work to
be stopped, the specific reason(s) for the stoppage, and the condition(s) under
which the work may be resumed. Violation of a stop-work order constitutes a
misdemeanor;
      (17)   Revoke floodplain development permits as required. The Floodplain
Administrator may revoke and require the return of the floodplain development
permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason(s) for the
revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the
approved application, plans, or specifications; for refusal or failure to
comply with the requirements of state or local laws; or for false statements or
misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any floodplain development
permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or local law may
also be revoked;
      (18)   Make periodic inspections throughout all special flood hazard
areas within the jurisdiction of the community. The Floodplain Administrator
and each member of his or her Inspections Department shall have a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction of the Department at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action;
      (19)   Follow through with corrective procedures of §
151.047 of this chapter;
      (20)   Review, provide input and make recommendations for variance
requests;
      (21)   Maintain a current map repository to include, but not limited to,
the FIS report, FIRM and other official flood maps and studies adopted in
accordance with §
151.293 of this chapter, including any revisions thereto including letters of
map change, issued by FEMA. Notify state and FEMA of mapping needs; and
      (22)   Coordinate revisions to FIS reports and FIRMs, including letters
of map revision based on fill (LOMR-F) and letters of map revision (LOMR).
   (D)   Airport zoning duties. The Enforcement Officer shall also administer
and enforce the “Airport Zoning Regulations of the Greensboro-High Point
Airport” adopted by the Greensboro-High Point Airport Authority on 4-15-1958,
as the same may from time to time be amended, in connection with the
enforcement of this chapter; provided, however, that, this chapter shall not
limit the effectiveness or scope of such airport zoning regulations. The
Enforcement Officer shall not issue a building permit or certificate of
occupancy for any building not in conformity with the provisions of the
“Airport Zoning Regulations of the Greensboro-High Point Airport”, except upon
written order of the Board of Airport Zoning Appeals.
   (E)   Deviation to dimensional requirement. If the Enforcement Officer finds
that any dimensional requirement in this chapter has not been specifically
adhered to, but that such deviation was a result of a good faith error and that
said error would not adversely impact an adjoining property, he or she may
permit a dimension deviation up to and including one-foot. Only one dimension
deviation per building may be allowed.
   (F)   Historic district requirements. Subject to a certificate of
appropriateness, the Enforcement Officer may issue permits for the
reconstruction, rehabilitation or restoration of structures listed on the
National Register of Historic Places or the State Inventory of Historic Places
under the conditions set forth in §
151.105(A) of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 9-5; Ord. passed 5-17-2007(1))
§ 151.030 MULTI-JURISDICTIONAL DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE COMMITTEE (MDOC).
   (A)   Authority. There is hereby established a text amendment review
committee, pursuant to §
151.076 of this chapter, to be known as the Multi-Jurisdictional Development
Ordinance Committee (MDOC).
   (B)   Membership. The MDOC shall consist of at least two members appointed
by each participating jurisdiction who shall be residents of the jurisdiction
they represent.
   (C)   Powers and duties. The MDOC shall have the following powers and
duties:
      (1)   To make recommendations to the Planning Board and governing body
concerning text amendments to this chapter;
      (2)   To review any other related matters as directed by the governing
body; and
      (3)   To adopt rules and procedures for their organizations and
operation, subject to an affirmative vote of two-thirds of the members of the
Committee.
   (D)   Storm Water Administrator powers and duties. The Storm Water
Administrator shall have the following powers and duties under this chapter:
      (1)   To review and approve, approve with conditions exhibiting equal
performance within acceptable engineering and construction standards, or
disapprove submittals for approval of watershed protection/storm water
management plans pursuant to this chapter;
      (2)   To make determinations and render written interpretations, which
shall be documented and kept on file for public reference, of §§
151.250,
151.251 and
151.265 through
151.278 of this chapter;
      (3)   To establish submittal requirements and schedules for review of
plans for watershed protection/storm water management development or
redevelopment approval, appeals, modifications and to review and make
recommendations to the Town Council on appeals and modifications;
      (4)   To enforce the provisions of the watershed protection/storm water
management section of this chapter;
      (5)   To maintain records, maps and official materials as they relate to
the adoption, amendment, enforcement or administration of this chapter;
      (6)   To provide expertise and technical assistance to the governing body
or appellate board upon request; and
      (7)   To designate appropriate other qualified person(s) who shall carry
out the powers and duties of the Storm Water Administrator.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 9-6; Ord. passed 2-21-2008(1))
§ 151.031 GOVERNING BOARD.
   (A)   Town Council amendments. Before taking such lawful action as it may
deem advisable, the Town Council shall consider the Planning Board’s
recommendations on each proposed zoning amendment and adopt its own statement
of plan consistency and reasonableness as outlined in G.S. § 160D-605,
considering the Planning Board’s written recommendations.
      (1)   A statement of reasonableness must comment on whether the proposed
action is consistent or inconsistent with the adopted Comprehensive Plan and
any other officially adopted plan that is applicable. Additional factors to
consider around reasonableness for the governing board to consider include: the
size, physical conditions and other attributes of the area proposed to be
rezoned; the benefits and detriments to the landowners, the neighbors and the
surrounding community; the relationship between the current actual and
permissible development on the tract and adjoining areas and the development
that would be permissible under the proposed amendment; why the action taken is
in the public interest; and any changed conditions warranting the amendment. If
a zoning map amendment qualifies as a large-scale rezoning under G.S. § 160D-
602(b), the governing board statement on reasonableness may address the overall
rezoning.
      (2)   Any rezoning approved by the Town Board that may be inconsistent
with the Comprehensive Plan’s future land use map shall update the future land
use map once the rezoning is approved.
   (B)   Conflict of interest for Town Council action. See section §
151.025(G) for disclosure and procedures.
(Ord. passed 8-14-2025)
§ 151.032 APPEALS; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   General. Unless as otherwise provided, appeals to decisions, actions,
orders or interpretations of this chapter shall be:
      (1)   In writing;
      (2)   Filed within 30 days of the decision;
      (3)   Filed with the secretary of the board or commission to which the
appeal is taken;
      (4)   Staff official or successor involved in decision being appealed
must appear as a witness in the appeal; and
      (5)   Quasi-judicial procedures must be followed according to G.S. §
160D-406.
   (B)   Planning Board. Unless otherwise provided, an appeal from a decision
of an Enforcement Officer with regard to an erosion-control plan or a watershed
development plan is to the Planning Board.
   (C)   Board of Adjustment.
      (1)   Unless otherwise provided, the decision of an Enforcement Officer
with regard to an interpretation of a zoning provision of this chapter, a
floodplain boundary or a zoning boundary, may be appealed to the Board of
Adjustment.
      (2)   Unless otherwise provided, an appeal from an address assignment
shall be to the Board of Adjustment.
      (3)   Appeal from a decision of the Historic Preservation Commission with
regard to a certificate of appropriateness shall be to the Board of Adjustment
in the nature of certiorari.
   (D)   Governing board.
      (1)   Appeals from a decision of the Planning Board with regard to a
zoning map amendment, conditional zoning district, special use permit or
watershed development plans shall be to the governing body.
      (2)   Appeals from a decision of the Planning Board with regard to street
name changes, road closings, right-of-way vacations, easement removals,
subdivision, site plan or soil erosion and sedimentation control plan shall be
to the governing body.
   (E)   Judicial appeal. Except as otherwise provided, an appeal from a
decision of the governing body or the Board of Adjustment is to a court of
competent jurisdiction.
   (F)   Soil erosion and sedimentation appeals.
      (1)   Procedure.
         (a)   Written appeal. The disapproval or modification of any proposed
soil erosion and sedimentation control plan by the Enforcement Officer, shall
entitle the person submitting the plan to a public hearing if such person
submits written demand for a hearing within 15 days after receipt of written
notice of disapproval or modifications.
         (b)   Timing. A hearing held pursuant to this section shall be
conducted by the Planning Board, within 30 days or at the next scheduled
meeting, after the date of the appeal or request for a hearing.
         (c)   Recommendation. The Planning Board shall conduct a hearing and
shall make a recommendation to the governing body, within 30 days after the
date of the hearing on any soil erosion and sedimentation control plan.
         (d)   Public hearing. The governing body will render its final
decision on any soil erosion and sedimentation control plan upon which a
hearing is requested within 15 days after receipt of the recommendations from
the Planning Board.
         (e)   Appeal of governing body denial. If the governing body upholds
the disapproval or modification of a proposed soil erosion and sedimentation
control plan following the hearing, the person submitting the plan shall then
be entitled to appeal the governing body’s decision to the state’s
Sedimentation Control Commission, as provided in G.S. § 113A-61(c) and Title 15
NCAC 4B.0018(b).
      (2)   Direct appeal to Sedimentation Control Commission.
         (a)   In the event that a soil erosion and sedimentation control plan
is disapproved pursuant to §
151.276(M) of this chapter, the jurisdiction shall notify the Director of the
Division of Land Resources of such disapproval within ten days.
         (b)   The jurisdiction shall advise the applicant and the Director in
writing as to the specific reasons that the plan was disapproved.
         (c)   The applicant may appeal the jurisdiction’s disapproval of the
plan directly to the state’s Sedimentation Control Commission.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 9-7; Ord. passed 8-14-2025)
§ 151.033 DECISIONS AND APPEALS CHART.
Table 2: Decision and Appeals Chart
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/becb2f9c6e5d0add85cd879a02d64c74e71e8c8f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-757.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/becb2f9c6e5d0add85cd879a02d64c74e71e8c8f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-759.png]
 
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), App. A-4)
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), App. A-4)
**** ENFORCEMENT ****
§ 151.045 VIOLATIONS.
   Any of the following shall be a violation of this chapter and shall be
subject to the enforcement remedies and penalties provided by this subchapter
and by state law:
   (A)   Development without permit. To engage in any development, use,
construction, remodeling or other activity of any nature upon the land or
improvements thereon subject to the jurisdiction of this chapter without all
required permits, certificates or other forms of authorization as set forth in
this chapter;
   (B)   Development inconsistent with permit. To engage in any development,
use, construction, remodeling or other activity of any nature in any way
inconsistent with any approved plan, permit, certificate or other form of
authorization granted for such activity;
   (C)   Violation by act or omission. To violate, by act or omission, any
term, variance or waiver, condition or qualification placed by the governing
body or its agent boards upon any required permit, certificate or other form of
authorization for the use, development or other activity upon land or
improvements thereon;
   (D)   Use in violation. To erect, construct, reconstruct, alter, repair,
convert, maintain or use any building or structure or to use any land in
violation or contravention of this chapter, or any other regulation made under
the authority conferred thereby;
   (E)   Subdivide in violation. To subdivide land in violation of this chapter
or transfer or sell land by reference to, exhibition of or any other use of a
plat or map showing a subdivision of the land before the plat or map has been
properly approved under this chapter and recorded in the office of the Register
of Deeds. The description by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or
other document used in the process of selling or transferring land does not
exempt the transaction from violation of this chapter; and
   (F)   Continue a violation. Each day’s violation of any provision of this
chapter is a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. passed 5-18-2006(1); Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 8-1)
§ 151.046 ENFORCEMENT INTENT.
   (A)   Questions. It is the intention of this chapter, unless otherwise
provided, that all questions arising in connection with the enforcement of this
chapter shall be presented first to the Enforcement Officer and that such
questions shall be presented to the Board of Adjustment only on appeal from the
Enforcement Officer’s decision. An appeal from the decision of the Board of
Adjustment shall be by proceedings in the nature of certiorari to the superior
court as provided by law.
   (B)   Governing body. It is further the intention of this chapter that the
duties of the governing body in connection with this chapter shall not include
the hearing and passing upon disputed questions that may arise in connection
with the enforcement thereof.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 8-2)
§ 151.047 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE.
   When the Enforcement Officer or his or her agent finds a violation of this
chapter, it shall be his or her duty to notify the owner or occupant of the
land, building, structure, sign or use of the violation. The owner or occupant
shall immediately remedy the violation and G.S. § 160D-404 enforcement and G.S.
§ 160D-405 appeals of administrative decisions shall be followed.
   (A)   Notice of violation (NOV). If the owner or occupant of the land,
building, sign, structure or use in violation fails to take prompt corrective
action, the Enforcement Officer shall give the owner, occupant and person
undertaking the work or activity by written notice, through either certified or
registered mail to their last known address by personal service, electronic
delivery or by posting notice of the violation conspicuously on the property:
      (1)   The land, building, sign, structure or use is in violation of this
chapter;
      (2)   The nature of the violation, and citation of the section of this
chapter violated; and
      (3)   The measures necessary to remedy the violation.
   (B)   Appeal. Any owner or occupant who has received a notice of violation
may appeal in writing the decision of the Enforcement Officer to the Board of
Adjustment (unless this chapter has specified that another board shall hear the
appeal of the violation) within 30 days following the date of the notice of
violation, and if by first class mail is deemed received on the third business
day following USPS postage stamp. During the appeal of the NOV, enforcement is
stayed and no accrual of any fines shall occur during the pendency of the civil
proceeding according to G.S. § 160D-405(f). The Board of Adjustment, or other
designated board, shall hear an appeal within a reasonable time, and it may
affirm, modify or revoke the notice of violation. In the absence of an appeal,
the remedies and penalties sought by the Enforcement Officer in the notice of
violation shall be final.
   (C)   Order of corrective action. If upon a hearing held pursuant to an
appeal as prescribed above, the Board of Adjustment shall find that the owner
or occupant is in violation of this chapter, the Board of Adjustment shall make
an order in writing to the owner or occupant affirming the violation and
ordering compliance.
   (D)   Failure to comply with an order. If the owner or occupant of a
property fails to comply with a notice of violation from which no appeal has
been taken, or an order of corrective action following an appeal, the owner or
occupant shall be subject to such remedies and penalties as may be provided for
by state law and §
151.048 of this chapter. If the owner or occupant fails to comply with the
remedies and penalties prescribed, enforcement shall be sought through an order
of a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 8-3; Ord. passed 5-17-2007(1); Ord. passed 8-14-
2025; Ord. passed 11-13-2025)
§ 151.048 REMEDIES.
   Any one or all of the following procedures may be used to enforce the
provisions of this chapter.
   (A)   Injunction. Any violation of this chapter or of any condition, order
or requirement, or remedy adopted pursuant hereto may be restrained, corrected,
abated, mandated or enjoined by other appropriate proceeding pursuant to state
law.
   (B)   Civil penalties. Any person who violates any provisions of this
chapter shall be subject to the assessment of a civil penalty under the
procedures provided in §
151.049 of this chapter.
   (C)   Denial of permit or certificate. The Enforcement Officer may withhold
or deny any permit, certificate, occupancy or other form of authorization on
any land, building, sign, structure or use in which there is an uncorrected
violation of a provision of this chapter or of a condition or qualification of
a permit, certificate or other authorization previously granted.
   (D)   Conditional permit or temporary certificate. The Enforcement Officer
may condition the authorization of any permit or certificate upon the
correction of the deficiency, payment of civil penalties within a specified
time or the posting of a compliance security approved by appropriate
governmental authority.
   (E)   Stop work orders. Whenever a building, sign, or structure, or part
thereof is being constructed, reconstructed, altered or repaired in violation
of this chapter, the Enforcement Officer may order the work to be immediately
stopped. The stop order shall be in writing and directed to the owner, occupant
or person doing the work. The stop order shall state the specific work to be
stopped, the specific reasons for the stoppage, and the conditions under which
the work may be resumed. Such action shall be in accordance with G.S. § 160D-
404(b), as applicable, or the state’s Building Code.
   (F)   Revocation of permits. If a permit or development approval is revoked
by the Enforcement Officer, the town shall follow the same development review
and approval process required for issuance of the development approval,
including any required notice or hearing. Permits or development approvals
shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the approved application,
plans or specifications; for refusal or failure to comply with the requirements
of any applicable local development regulation or any state law delegated to
the local government for enforcement purposes in lieu of the state; or for
false statements or misrepresentations made in securing the approval. Any
development approval mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or
local law may also be revoked. The revocation of a development approval by a
staff member may be appealed pursuant to G.S. § 160D-405. If an appeal is filed
regarding a development regulation adopted by a local government pursuant to
this chapter, the provisions of G.S. § 160D-405(f) regarding stays apply.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 8-4; Ord. passed 8-14-2025)
§ 151.049 ASSESSMENT AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Notice. No civil penalty shall be assessed until the person alleged to
be in violation has been notified of the violation in accordance with §
151.047 of this chapter. If after receiving a notice of violation under §
151.047 of this chapter, the owner or other violator fails to take corrective
action, a civil penalty may be imposed under this section in the form of a
citation. The citation shall be served in the manner of a notice of violation.
The citation shall state the nature of the violation, the civil penalty to be
imposed upon the violator and shall direct the violator to pay the civil
penalty within 15 days of the date of the notice.
   (B)   Responsible parties. The owner or occupant of any land, building,
structure, sign or use of land or part thereof and any architect, builder,
contractor, agent or any other person who participates or acts in concert,
assists, directs, creates or maintains any condition that is in violation of
the requirements of this chapter may be held responsible for the violation and
subject to the civil penalties and remedies herein provided.
   (C)   Continuing violation. For each day the violation is not corrected, the
violator will be guilty of an additional and separate offense and subject to
additional civil penalty.
   (D)   Demand for payment. The Enforcement Officer shall make written demand
for payment upon the property owner or the person in violation, and shall set
forth in detail a description of the violation for which the civil penalty has
been imposed.
   (E)   Non-payment. If payment is not received or equitable settlement
reached within 30 days after demand for payment is made, the matter shall be
referred to legal counsel for institution of a civil action in the appropriate
division of the general courts of justice for recovery of the civil penalty;
provided, however, if the civil penalty is not paid within the time prescribed,
the Enforcement Officer may have a criminal summons or warrant issued against
the violator. Upon conviction, the violator shall be subject to any criminal
penalty the court may impose pursuant to G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 8-5; Ord. passed 5-17-2007(1))
§ 151.050 STATE AND COMMON LAW REMEDIES; PREVIOUS ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   In addition to other enforcement provisions contained in this
subchapter, the governing body may exercise any and all enforcement powers
granted to it by state law or common law.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the continuation of previous
enforcement actions.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 8-9)
§ 151.051 REMEDIES CUMULATIVE AND CONTINUOUS.
   (A)   Cumulative violations. All such remedies provided herein shall be
cumulative. To the extent that the state law may limit the availability of a
particular remedy set forth herein for a certain violation or a part thereof,
such remedy shall remain available for other violations or other parts of the
same violation.
   (B)   Repeat violations. If an owner or occupant repeats the same violation
within a five-year period from the date of the initial violation, it shall be
considered to be a continuation of the initial violation and shall be subject
to additional penalties and remedies.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 8-10)
§ 151.052 ACTION BY OTHERS.
   (A)   Adjacent or neighboring property. In addition to the remedies of the
local government hereunder, if any building or structure is erected,
constructed, reconstructed, repaired, converted or maintained, or any building,
structure or land is used in violation of this chapter, any other appropriate
authority or any adjacent, nearby or neighboring property owner who would be
affected by such violation may institute injunction, mandamus or other
appropriate action or proceeding to prevent the occupancy of such building,
structure or land, or the continuance of any construction whatsoever in
violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Land purchaser. In the event that a purchaser buys land for which
there is a surety to secure performance of improvements, after a period of two
years has passed since the date of final plat recordation, the purchaser may
bring action to enforce completion of the improvements. In such a case, the
purchaser may seek specific performance.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 8-11)
**** PERMITS AND PROCEDURES ****
§ 151.065 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall undertake any development activity subject to this chapter
without first obtaining a permit from the town.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 3-1)
§ 151.066 PERMIT EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Building permit exemptions. The following are exempt from building
permit requirements:
      (1)   Farm buildings (other than residences) for farm use (see §
151.014 of this chapter) per G.S. § 143-138;
      (2)   Facilities for storing, handling and utilizing liquefied petroleum
gases for fuel and anhydrous ammonia or other liquid fertilizers, but not
including tanks and tank farms;
      (3)   Facilities of a public utility or an electric or telephone
membership corporation (except buildings);
      (4)   Accessory buildings with no horizontal dimension greater than 12
feet; and
      (5)   Federal or state owned buildings.
   (B)   Grading permit exemptions. The following land-disturbing activities
are exempt from grading permit requirements:
      (1)   For the purpose of fighting fires;
      (2)   For the stock piling of raw or processed sand, stone, or gravel in
material processing plants and storage yards; provided that, sediment control
measures have been utilized to protect against off-site damage;
      (3)   Areas that do not exceed one acre in surface area. In determining
the area, lands under one or diverse ownership being developed as a unit shall
be aggregated;
      (4)   Those undertaken on agricultural land for the production of plants
and animals useful to humans, including, but not limited to: forage and sod
crops, grain and feed crops, tobacco, cotton and peanuts; dairy animals and
dairy products; poultry and poultry products; livestock, including beef cattle,
sheep, swine, horses, ponies, mules or goats, including the breeding and
grazing of any or all such animals; bees and aviary products; fur animals;
      (5)   Those undertaken on forest land for the production and harvesting
of timber and timber products and which are conducted in accordance with forest
practice guidelines related to water quality (best management practices) as
adopted by the state’s Department of Environment, Health and Natural Resources
(DEHNR). If land-disturbing activity undertaken on forestland for the
production and harvesting of timber and timber products is not conducted in
accordance with forest practice guidelines related to water quality, the
provisions on this chapter shall apply to such activity and any related land-
disturbing activity on the tract;
      (6)   Mining activity undertaken by persons as defined in G.S. § 113A-52
(8) who are otherwise regulated by the provisions of The Mining Act of 1971,
G.S. §§ 74-46 through 74-68; and
      (7)   Land-disturbing activity over which the state has exclusive
regulatory jurisdiction as provided in G.S. § 113A-56(a).
   (C)   Sign permit exemptions. No sign permit shall be required for signs
exempted by §
151.145 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 3-2; Ord. passed 10-23-2016(1))
§ 151.067 PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   Submission. Unless otherwise specified, all applications for
permits under this chapter shall be submitted by the owner of the property or
the authorized agent of such owner. The Enforcement Officer may require
reasonable proof of agency from any person submitting an application as an
agent.
      (2)   Form of submission. An application for any permit under this
chapter shall be submitted in such form, number of copies and format as
required by §
151.081 of this chapter, together with such fees as required.
      (3)   Waiver of submission requirements. The town’s Planning Board may
waive submission of required elements of information when, in his or her
opinion, such information is otherwise available or is not necessary to review
the application. The Enforcement Officer may refuse to process an incomplete
application.
      (4)   Processing. All applications for permits shall be submitted,
reviewed and processed in accordance with the requirements of this chapter.
Approvals will be in writing and may be delivered in print or electronic form
and protected from further editing once sent.
      (5)   Approved plans. A copy of required plans or information submitted
with the application shall be returned to the applicant after the town’s
Planning Board has marked the copy either approved or disapproved and attested
to same. A similarly marked copy shall be retained by the Enforcement Officer.
      (6)   Improvement permit and authorization to construct required. A
permit for any building or use for which a State or County Health Department
improvement permit for installation of a well and/or an improvement permit/
authorization to construct a new sewage disposal system is required shall not
be issued until such improvement permit or authorization to construct has been
issued by the State or County Health Department.
      (7)   Conformance with Airport Overlay District. The town’s Planning
Board shall not issue a building, sign or use/location permit or certificate of
occupancy for any building or sign not in conformity with the provisions of the
Airport Zoning Overlay District, except upon written order of the Board of
Airport Zoning Appeals.
      (8)   Permit approvals run with land. Any permit or other development
approvals run with the land and not the ownership of the property, conditions
or time limiting approvals must be included at the time of decision and outline
in the ordinance.
      (9)   Permit choice. If after submission of a permit or development
approval the ordinance changes, the applicant may choose to use the old
ordinance rule or the newly adopted rule or regulation.
   (B)   Building, sign, use/location permits. Application for a building, sign
and use/location permits shall be made to the town’s Planning Board.
   (C)   Event permit.
      (1)   Application. Application for an event permit shall be made to the
town’s Planning Board at least three working days prior to the start of the
event.
      (2)   Permit required. An event permit shall be obtained for non-
permanent facilities and activities which will have a duration more than three
days, but not more than 30 days. Examples of this type of event uses are: a
carnival; a turkey shoot; a revival; or similar activity conducted on a short-
term basis. Turkey shoots may have a duration not to exceed 90 days. Refer to §
151.210 of this chapter for additional requirements for turkey shoots.
      (3)   Purpose of permit. The purpose of this permit will be to authorize
a specific use for a defined period of time; and to coordinate health, traffic
and other code specific inspections necessary to the safe and healthful
operation of the event.
      (4)   Permit issuance. The event permit shall not be issued until
evidence is shown that the following conditions have been or will be complied
with:
         (a)   Ample off-street parking shall be provided for the event, in
addition to required parking for the use or uses located at the event site;
         (b)   The owner of the property where the event is to be held, or his
or her agent, shall provide to the Enforcement Officer written authorization
that the event may take place on the property;
         (c)   An event held outside of a building and within 500 feet of any
residence shall cease operation by 10:00 p.m.;
         (d)   Noise shall be controlled so that no adjoining property owner or
occupant is unduly disturbed by the event; and
         (e)   Licenses and/or permits required by other agencies shall be
obtained prior to the issuance of the event permit.
      (5)   Maximum number of permits. No more than three permits may be issued
on the same property for the same event in any one calendar year.
   (D)   Grading permit. Application for a grading permit shall be made to the
Enforcement Officer, in accordance with provisions of §§
151.265 through
151.278 of this chapter. A certificate of erosion-control performance is
required in accordance with §
151.072 of this chapter.
   (E)   Floodplain development permit.
      (1)   Application requirements. Application for a floodplain development
permit shall be made to the Floodplain Administrator prior to any development
activities located within special flood hazard areas. The following items shall
be presented to the Floodplain Administrator to apply for a floodplain
development permit:
         (a)   A plot plan drawn to scale which shall include, but shall not be
limited to, the following specific details of the proposed floodplain
development:
            1.   The nature, location, dimensions and elevations of the area of
development/ disturbance; existing and proposed structures, utility systems,
grading/pavement areas, fill materials, storage areas, drainage facilities and
other development;
            2.   The boundary of the special flood hazard area as delineated on
the firm or other flood map as determined in this section, or a statement that
the entire lot is within the special flood hazard area;
            3.   Flood zone(s) designation of the proposed development area as
determined on the firm or other flood map as determined in §
151.293 of this chapter;
            4.   The boundary of the floodway(s) or non-encroachment area(s) as
determined in §
151.293 of this chapter;
            5.   The base flood elevation (BFE) where provided as set forth in
§§
151.030(C),
151.293 and
151.301 of this chapter;
            6.   The old and new location of any watercourse that will be
altered or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
            7.   Certification of the plot plan by a registered land surveyor
or professional engineer.
         (b)   Proposed elevation, and method thereof, of all development
within a special flood hazard area including, but not limited to:
            1.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the proposed
reference level (including basement) of all structures;
            2.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-
residential structure in zone AE or A will be flood-proofed; and
            3.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any proposed
utility systems will be elevated or flood-proofed.
         (c)   If flood-proofing, a flood-proofing certificate (FEMA Form 81-
65) with supporting data and an operational plan that includes, but is not
limited to, installation, exercise and maintenance of flood-proofing measures;
         (d)   A foundation plan, drawn to scale, which shall include details
of the proposed foundation system to ensure all provisions of this chapter are
met. These details include, but are not limited to:
            1.   The proposed method of elevation, if applicable (i.e., fill,
solid foundation perimeter wall, solid backfilled foundation, open foundation
on columns/posts/piers/piles/shear walls); and
            2.   Openings to facilitate equalization of hydrostatic flood
forces on walls in accordance with §
151.300(D)(3) of this chapter, when solid foundation perimeter walls are used
in Zones A, AE and A1-30.
         (e)   Usage details of any enclosed areas below the regulatory flood
protection elevation;
         (f)   Plans and/or details for the protection of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems to be located and
constructed to minimize flood damage;
         (g)   Copies of all other local, state and federal permits required
prior to floodplain development permit issuance (wetlands, endangered species,
erosion and sedimentation control, riparian buffers, mining and the like);
         (h)   Documentation for placement of recreational vehicles and/or
temporary structures, when applicable, to ensure the provisions of §
151.300(F) of this chapter are met; and
         (i)   A description of proposed watercourse alteration or relocation,
when applicable, including an engineering report on the effects of the proposed
project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to
properties located both upstream and downstream; and a map (if not shown on
plot plan) showing the location of the proposed watercourse alteration or
relocation.
      (2)   Permit requirements. The floodplain development permit shall
include, but not be limited to:
         (a)   A description of the development to be permitted under the
floodplain development permit;
         (b)   The special flood hazard area determination for the proposed
development per available data specified in §
151.293 of this chapter;
         (c)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
reference level and all attendant utilities;
         (d)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
protection of all public utilities;
         (e)   All certification submittal requirements with timelines;
         (f)   A statement that no fill material or other development shall
encroach into the floodway or non-encroachment area of any watercourse, as
applicable;
         (g)   The flood openings requirements, if in Zones A, AE or A1-30; and
         (h)   Limitations of below BFE enclosure uses (if applicable) (i.e.,
parking, building access and limited storage only).
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 3-3; Ord. passed 5-17-2007(1); Ord. passed 8-14-
2025)
§ 151.068 PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Permit sequence.
      (1)   Order of review and issuance. The order of permit issuance shall be
as follows:
         (a)   A grading permit may be issued in advance of other permits and
plan approvals, except watershed development plans; and
         (b)   If required, a Health Department improvement permit/
authorization to construct for well or septic, driveway permit, sewer and water
construction plans, site or plot plan and watershed development plan shall be
issued, approved or authorized prior to issuance of a building, sign, use,
location or occupancy permit.
      (2)   Recordation of final plats. Recordation of final plats may be
deferred on group development projects and projects in excess of 50,000 square
feet of gross floor area. A certificate of occupancy may not be issued until
all platting requirements are met.
      (3)   Phasing of projects. Phased projects may be occupied in phases as
long as compliance is achieved in each phase, and access and other requirements
are met.
      (4)   Permits prior to final plan approval. The Enforcement Officer may
issue permits for model homes, temporary construction trailers, safety
structures and other customary construction mobilization structures prior to
site plan and final plat approval.
      (5)   Concurrent review. Review of plans may be concurrent.
   (B)   Fees. The Town Council may establish a schedule of fees, charges and
expenses, and a collection procedure, for building permits, sign permits, use/
location permits, conditional zoning and special use permits, grading permits,
variances, waivers, appeals and other matters pertaining to this chapter. No
permit, certificate, variance and the like shall be issued unless or until such
costs, charges, fees or expenses as established, have been paid in full, nor
shall any action be taken on proceedings before the administrative board
authorized by this chapter unless or until charges and fees have been paid in
full.
   (C)   Notice of determinations. The town will provide written notice of
determination on development or permit applications by personal delivery,
electronic mail or first-class mail to the property owner and agent seeking
determination if different from the owner.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 3-4; Ord. passed 10-23-2016(1); Ord. passed 8-14-
2025)
§ 151.069 PERMIT APPEALS.
   (A)   Permit denial. Any owner or occupant who has been denied a permit may
appeal the denial by giving notice of appeal in writing to the town within 30
days, in accordance with §
151.032 of this chapter.
   (B)   Appellant body. An appeal from permit denial shall be made to the
appropriate body in accordance with §
151.032 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 3-5; Ord. passed 8-14-2025)
§ 151.070 INSPECTIONS AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   Periodic inspections. The Enforcement Officer shall have the right,
upon presentation of proper credentials and appropriate consent has been given,
or inspection warrant if necessary, to enter on any premises within the
jurisdiction of the governing body at any reasonable hour for the purposes of
inspection, determination of plan compliance or other enforcement action.
   (B)   Investigation. The Enforcement Officer shall have the power to conduct
such investigation as he or she may reasonably deem necessary to carry out his
or her duties as prescribed in this chapter, and for this purpose to enter at
reasonable times upon any property, public or private, for the purpose of
investigating and inspecting the sites of any complaints or alleged violations
of this chapter.
   (C)   Written statements. The governing body or its agent shall also have
the power to require written statements, certificates and certifications or the
filing of reports under oath, with respect to pertinent questions relating to
complaints or alleged violations of this chapter. G.S. § 160D-403
administrative development approvals and determinations shall be followed when
carrying out any investigations.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 3-6; Ord. passed 8-14-2025)
§ 151.071 PERMIT EXPIRATION.
   (A)   Building, sign, use/location permit expiration.
      (1)   Start of construction. If the work authorized by a building, sign,
use or location permit has not begun within 180 days from the date of issuance
thereof, the permit shall be void and a new permit, consistent with all
provisions of this chapter, shall be required. For purposes of this section,
construction shall be deemed to have begun at the time of completion of an
approved foundation inspection.
      (2)   Permit continuance. If, after start of construction, the work is
discontinued for a period of one year, the permit shall immediately expire. No
work authorized by any permit that has expired shall thereafter be performed
until a new permit has been secured.
      (3)   Posting. The building sign, use or location permit must by posted
in a prominent place on the site at all times it is in effect.
   (B)   Grading permit expiration.
      (1)   Expiration. A grading permit shall be valid for one year unless it
is revoked by the town or the grading project is completed and a certificate of
compliance is issued by the Enforcement Officer within the one-year period.
      (2)   Renewal. The grading permit may be reissued for an additional 180-
day period, if adequately justified, by making a written request to the town’s
Planning Board. No permit fee will be required for reissuance of a grading
permit; however, the applicable surety shall remain in effect.
      (3)   Eighteen-month limit. If grading or protection of the site is not
completed within 18 months, the person conducting the land-disturbing activity
shall be required to obtain a new grading permit by following the same
procedures whereby the original permit was issued.
      (4)   Posting. The grading permit must be posted in a prominent place on
the site of the land-disturbing activity at all times it is in effect.
   (C)   Improvements permit expiration.
      (1)   Application expiration. The application and pertinent information
prepared as necessary to obtain an improvements permit becomes invalid two
years from the date of application or expires upon expiration of the
preliminary plat whichever comes first.
      (2)   Permit expiration.
         (a)   Improvements permits for which a plot plan is provided shall be
valid without expiration.
         (b)   Improvements permits for which a health drawing is provided
shall be valid for five years.
         (c)   An improvement permit, once approved, may be revoked, pursuant
to §
151.048(F) of this chapter, if there has been alternation of the site or soil
conditions, changes to the proposed facility, or document falsification causing
revocation of the permit.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 3-7)
§ 151.072 CERTIFICATE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Certificate of occupancy and compliance.
      (1)   Certificate of occupancy required. No land, building or sign shall
be structurally altered, erected, moved, occupied or its use changed until a
certificate of occupancy is issued by the town. This certificate shall state
that the building and/or proposed use thereof complies with the provisions of
this chapter. Farm uses (see §
151.014 of this chapter) and farm buildings (per G.S § 143-138), except
residences, are exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Non-conforming use. A certificate of occupancy shall be required
for the purpose of renewing or altering a non-conforming use.
      (3)   Certificate of occupancy application. A certificate of occupancy
shall be applied for concurrently with the application for a building, sign,
use/location permit.
      (4)   Issuance. A certificate of occupancy shall be issued as soon as
practical after completion of construction or alterations of such building or
sign after:
         (a)   Inspection by the Enforcement Officer to determine compliance
with all applicable provisions of this chapter;
         (b)   If required, issuance of an operations permit for a septic
system or other approved sanitary disposal method by the County or State Health
Department; and
         (c)   Compliance with all applicable provisions of related health,
building and fire codes.
      (5)   Certificate of occupancy and compliance. A certificate of occupancy
may also serve as a certificate of compliance under the Building Code, in which
case it shall be known as a certificate of occupancy and compliance.
   (B)   Temporary certificate. A temporary certificate of occupancy may be
issued by the town’s Planning Board prior to the completion of all
construction, alterations or changes if such occupancy will not violate any
health or safety considerations of applicable codes.
      (1)   Time period. A temporary certificate of occupancy may be for a time
period as the Enforcement Officer deems appropriate to complete the work, but
not to exceed 180 days.
      (2)   Surety. A surety will be posted in an amount sufficient to insure
that the missing elements specified in the plan will be accomplished within the
period of the temporary certificate of occupancy.
      (3)   Work incomplete. If the work is not completed within the period of
the temporary certificate of occupancy, the Enforcement Officer shall notify
the owner. The owner shall cease use of the building and land immediately and
shall not resume such use until a certificate of occupancy has been issued.
Failure to cease use shall subject the owner or operator to civil penalties and
other enforcement actions available under this chapter and compliance with all
applicable provisions of related health, building and fire codes.
      (4)   Certificate of operation. If required, an operations permit for a
septic system, or other approved sanitary disposal method, must be issued by
the County or State Health Department prior to temporary occupancy.
   (C)   Certificate of erosion-control performance. A certificate of erosion-
control performance shall be issued after initial soil erosion and
sedimentation control devices have been installed, inspected and certified to
be installed and functioning properly in accordance with an approved grading
plan. After issuance of a grading permit, grading on the site shall be limited
to that required to install soil erosion and sedimentation control devices
until the certificate of erosion-control performance is issued.
   (D)   Certificate of floor elevation/flood-proofing.
      (1)   Elevation certificates.
         (a)   An elevation certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) is required prior to
the actual start of any new construction. It shall be the duty of the permit
holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the
elevation of the reference level, in relation to mean sea level. The Floodplain
Administrator shall review the certificate data submitted. Deficiencies
detected by such review shall be corrected by the permit holder prior to the
beginning of construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure to
make required corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain development
permit.
         (b)   An elevation certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) is required after the
reference level is established. Within seven calendar days of establishment of
the reference level elevation, it shall be the duty of the permit holder to
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the elevation of the
reference level, in relation to mean sea level. Any work done within the seven-
day calendar period and prior to submission of the certification shall be at
the permit holder’s risk. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the
certificate data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be
corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to further work being
permitted to proceed. Failure to submit the certification or failure to make
required corrections shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
         (c)   A final as-built elevation certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) is
required after construction is completed and prior to certificate of
compliance/occupancy issuance. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of final as-built
construction of the elevation of the reference level and all attendant
utilities. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data
submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder immediately and prior to certificate of compliance/occupancy
issuance. In some instances, another certification may be required to certify
corrected as-built construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure
to make required corrections shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a
certificate of compliance/occupancy.
      (2)   Flood-proofing certificate. If non-residential flood-proofing is
used to meet the regulatory flood protection elevation requirements, a flood-
proofing certificate (FEMA Form 81-65), with supporting data and an operational
plan, is required prior to the actual start of any new construction. It shall
be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a
certification of the flood-proofed design elevation of the reference level and
all attendant utilities, in relation to mean sea level. Flood-proofing
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
professional engineer or architect and certified by same. The Floodplain
Administrator shall review the certificate data and plan. Deficiencies detected
by such review shall be corrected by the applicant prior to permit approval.
Failure to submit the certification or failure to make required corrections
shall be cause to deny a floodplain development permit. Failure to construct in
accordance with the certified design shall be cause to withhold the issuance of
a certificate of compliance/occupancy.
      (3)   Engineered foundation certificate. If a manufactured home is placed
within Zones A, AE or A1-30 and the elevation of the chassis is more than 36
inches in height above grade, an engineered foundation certification is
required per §
151.300(C) of this chapter.
      (4)   Altered, relocated watercourse. If a watercourse is to be altered
or relocated, a description of the extent of watercourse alteration or
relocation; a professional engineer’s certified report on the effects of the
proposed project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the
effects to properties located both upstream and downstream; and a map showing
the location of the proposed watercourse alteration or relocation shall all be
submitted by the permit applicant prior to issuance of a floodplain development
permit.
      (5)   Certification exemptions. The following structures, if located
within Zones A, AE or A1-30, are exempt from the elevation/flood-proofing
certification requirements specified in divisions (D)(1) and (D)(2) above:
         (a)   Recreational vehicles meeting requirements of §
151.300(F) of this chapter;
         (b)   Temporary structures meeting requirements of §
151.300(G) of this chapter; and
         (c)   Accessory structures less than 150 square feet meeting
requirements of §
151.300(H) of this chapter.
   (E)   Certificate of appropriateness. A certificate of appropriateness shall
be required for all activities specified in §
151.105 of this chapter and any property designated as an historic landmark
property by the Historic Preservation Commission whether a building permit is
otherwise required or not.
   (F)   Record. A record of all certificates shall be kept on file by the
Enforcement Officer.
   (G)   Construction and use. Construction and use as provided in the
certificate of occupancy, building permit, use/location permit, sign permit or
grading permit issued on the basis of approved plans or applications authorizes
only the use, arrangement and construction set forth in such approved plans or
applications. Any use, arrangement or construction at variance with that
authorized shall be deemed a violation.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 3-8; Ord. passed 5-17-2007(1); Ord. passed 10-23-
2016(1))
§ 151.073 DEDICATION OR RESERVATION OF RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Dedication of right-of-way with density transfer. Whenever a tract of
land located within the jurisdiction is proposed for subdivision or for use
pursuant to a special use permit, and a portion of it is embraced within a
corridor for a street or highway on a plan established and adopted pursuant to
G.S. § 136-66.2, the jurisdiction may provide for the dedication of right-of-
way within that corridor pursuant to any applicable legal authority, or:
      (1)   The jurisdiction may require an applicant for subdivision plat
approval or for a special use permit, or for any other permission pursuant to a
land use control ordinance authorized by local act to dedicate for street or
highway purpose, the right-of-way within such corridor if the jurisdiction
allows the applicant to transfer density credits attributable to the dedicated
right-of-way to contiguous land owned by the applicant. No dedication of right-
of-way shall be required pursuant to this section unless the board or agency
granting final subdivision plat approval or the special use permit, or
permission shall find, prior to the grant, that the dedication does not result
in the deprivation of a reasonable use of the original tract and that the
dedication is either reasonably related to the traffic generated by the
proposed subdivision or use of the remaining land or the impact of the
dedication is mitigated by measures provided in this chapter; and
      (2)   If the jurisdiction does not require the dedication of right-of-way
within the corridor pursuant to division (A)(1) above or other applicable legal
authority, but an applicant for subdivision plat approval or a zoning or
building permit, or any other permission pursuant to land use control ordinance
authorized by local act elects to dedicate the right-of-way, the jurisdiction
may allow the applicant to transfer density credits attributable to the
dedicated right-of-way to contiguous land that is part of a common development
plan.
   (B)   Reservation of right-of-way through official roadway corridor maps.
      (1)   Authority. Under the authority granted by G.S. § 136-2E governing
bodies or the state department of transportation may from time to time adopt,
amend, supplement or change a roadway corridor official map for any streets or
roadways identified on the adopted thoroughfare plan.
      (2)   Effect of roadway corridor official map.
         (a)   After a roadway corridor official map is filed with the Register
of Deeds, no building permit shall be issued for any building or structure or
part thereof located within the roadway corridor, nor shall approval of a
subdivision, as defined in §§
151.265 through
151.278 of this chapter, be granted with respect to property within the roadway
corridor. The provisions of this section shall not apply to valid building
permits issued prior to the effective date of this section, or to building
permits for buildings and structures which existed prior to the filing of the
roadway corridor; provided, the size of the building or structure is not
increased and the type of building code occupancy as set forth in the state’s
Building Code is not changed.
         (b)   No application for building permit issuance or subdivision plan
approval shall be delayed by the provisions of this section for more than three
years from the date of the original building permit or subdivision plan
submittal.
         (c)   Real property that lies within a roadway corridor marked on an
official map is designated a special class of property and is taxable at 20% of
the general tax rate levied on real property by the taxing unit in which the
property is situated if:
            1.   As of January 1, no building or other structure is located on
the property; and
            2.   The property has not been subdivided, as defined in §§
151.265 through
151.278 of this chapter, since it was included in the corridor.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 3-9)
§ 151.074 SURETIES OR IMPROVEMENT GUARANTEES.
   (A)   Agreement and security.
      (1)   Financial guarantee in lieu of immediate installation for approval.
In lieu of requiring the completion, installation and dedication of all
improvements prior to final plat approval or issuance of the certificate of
occupancy, the jurisdiction may enter into an agreement following G.S. § 160D-
804.1 performance guarantees with the developer whereby the developer shall
complete all required improvements. Once said agreement is signed by the
developer and the security required herein is provided, the final plat may be
approved or the certificate of occupancy may be issued, if all other
requirements of this chapter are met. To secure this agreement, the developer
shall provide any or a combination of the following guarantees to cover 125% of
the estimated cost of the uncompleted improvements.
         (a)   Surety performance bond(s).
            1.   The developer shall obtain a surety bond from a surety bonding
company authorized to issue said bonds in the state.
            2.   The bond shall be payable to the jurisdiction and shall be in
an amount equal to 125% of the estimated cost, as approved by the jurisdiction,
of installing all uncompleted improvements.
         (b)   Cash or equivalent security.
            1.   The developer shall deposit cash, an irrevocable letter of
credit or other instrument readily convertible into cash at face value, either
with the jurisdiction or in escrow with a financial institution. The use of any
instrument other than cash shall be subject to approval of the jurisdiction.
The amount of deposit shall be equal to the entire estimated cost, as approved
by the jurisdiction, of installing all uncompleted improvements.
            2.   If cash or other instrument is deposited in escrow with a
financial institution as provided above, then the developer shall file with the
jurisdiction an agreement between the financial institution and himself or
herself guaranteeing the following:
               a.   That said escrow account shall be held in trust until
released by the jurisdiction and may not be used or pledged by the developer in
any other matter during the term of the escrow; and
               b.   That in case of a failure on the part of the developer to
complete said improvements, the financial institution shall, upon notification
by the jurisdiction immediately pay the funds deemed necessary by the
jurisdiction to complete the improvements, up to the full balance of the escrow
account, or deliver to the jurisdiction any other instruments fully endorsed or
otherwise made payable in full to the jurisdiction.
      (2)   Duration of financial guarantees.
         (a)   The duration of a financial guarantee shall be initially be one
year to allow for completion and acceptance of improvements, unless the
developer determines that the scope of work for the required improvements
necessitates a longer duration. In no case shall the duration of the financial
guarantee for improvements exceed two years.
         (b)   All developments whose improvements are not completed and
accepted 14 days prior to the expiration of the financial guarantee shall be
considered to be in default. Said guarantee shall be extended, or a new
guarantee shall be issued, if a good faith effort is being made to complete the
improvements and such extension takes place prior to default. The amount of the
guarantee shall not exceed 125% of the estimated cost to complete the
improvement.
         (c)   The financial guarantee shall be returned or released in a
timely manner upon the acknowledgment by the local government that the
improvements for which the performance guarantee is being required are
complete. The local government shall return letters of credit or escorted funds
upon completion of the required improvements to its specifications or upon
acceptance of the required improvements, if the required improvements are
subject to local government acceptance. Written acknowledgment may be requested
of the town of a release of any improvement secured by surety bonds.
      (3)   Default.
         (a)   Payment. Upon default, the surety bonding company or the
financial institution holding the escrow account shall, if requested by the
jurisdiction, pay all or any portion of the bond or escrow fund to the
jurisdiction up to the amount deemed necessary by the jurisdiction to complete
the improvements. Upon payment, the jurisdiction shall expend such funds or
portion thereof to complete all or any portion of the required improvements.
The jurisdiction shall return any funds not spent in completing the
improvements. Default on a project does not release the developer from
liability and responsibility for completion of the improvements.
         (b)   Release of guarantee security. The jurisdiction shall release a
portion or all of any security posted as the improvements are completed and
approved by the jurisdiction.
   (B)   Oversized improvements. The jurisdiction may require installation of
certain oversized utilities or the extension of utilities to adjacent property
when it is in the interest of future development. If the jurisdiction requires
the installation of oversized improvements, the jurisdiction shall reimburse
the developer for the oversizing based on the rates set by the jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 3-10; Ord. passed 10-23-2016(1); Ord. passed 8-14-
2025)
§ 151.075 SITE PLAN AND PLOT PLAN PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Applicability.
      (1)   Health drawing/plot plan required. No building permit for a single-
family or two-family dwelling and their accessory(s) on a single lot shall be
issued until an authorization to construct, if required; and a plot plan,
prepared in accordance with §§
151.335 through
151.337 of this chapter, has been approved.
      (2)   Site plan required. No other building permit shall be issued on a
lot until a site plan, prepared in accordance with §§
151.335 through
151.337 of this chapter, has been approved for the development; except that, no
new or amended site plan shall be required if an adequate site plan is already
on file, no change in the parking requirements is required, and no increase in
built-upon area is proposed or required.
   (B)   Submission of site plans.
      (1)   Pre-application conference. For major site plans, a pre-application
conference with the Planning Department staff shall be required.
      (2)   Site plan compliance. Site plans shall contain all applicable
information listed in §§
151.335 through
151.337 of this chapter. The site plan shall consist of four sheets: a site
layout, a water and sewer utility plan, a conceptual landscaping plan showing
planting yard areas, types of plantings (i.e., canopy trees, understory trees,
shrubs) and number of plantings, and a grading, erosion- control and watershed
development plan, if required. Depending on the scale or complexity of the
development, any or all of the sheets may be combined. A site layout meeting
the requirements of §§
151.265 through
151.278 of this chapter may also serve as the preliminary subdivision plat.
      (3)   Fees. All fees shall be due and payable when the site plan is
submitted according to the schedule of fees.
   (C)   Coordination with other procedures. To lessen the time required to
obtain all necessary approvals, the site plan approval process may run
concurrently with building plan review; an application for certificate of
appropriateness; an application for a grading permit; or other applications for
approvals required for the particular project.
   (D)   Site plan and plot plan approval.
      (1)   Approval of site/plot plan. The site plan or plot plan shall be
approved when it meets all requirements of this chapter or proper waivers and/
or variances are obtained.
      (2)   Approval authority.
         (a)   Site plans submitted for new developments, or additions to
existing developments, may be approved by the Planning Board.
         (b)   Major site plans shall be reviewed by the Technical Review
Committee for advisory comment before forwarding to the town’s Planning Board
for review and approval unless waived by the Planning Board Chair or designee
due to scheduling conflicts. Major site plans shall include:
            1.   New development involving 15,000 square feet or more of gross
floor area;
            2.   New development involving 40,000 square feet or more of open
uses of land;
            3.   Addition to existing development involving 15,000 square feet
or more of gross floor area; or
            4.   Expansion to existing open uses of land involving 40,000
square feet or more.
      (3)   Action by Planning Board. If a site plan is approved, the applicant
may proceed with other requirements necessary to obtain a building permit. If
the Planning Board denies the site plan, reasons for the denial shall be stated
in writing and the site plan may be revised and resubmitted. The Planning Board
shall take action within 30 days after reviewing the site plan. Application
approval, denial or lack of action within 30 days by the Planning Board may be
appealed to the Town Council. The appeal to Town Council shall be made within
30 days after the approval, denial or lack of action by the Planning Board.
      (4)   Conditional approvals. If the site plan is granted conditional
approval by the Planning Board, the applicant shall revise and resubmit the
site plan. The Planning Department shall review the revised site plan and, if
it meets all the approval conditions and is otherwise substantially unaltered,
shall signify on the plan the change from conditional approval to approval. If
the site plan is not revised within 60 days to meet the approval conditions, or
the applicant notifies the Planning Department that he or she is unwilling to
revise the site plan, it shall be deemed denied.
      (5)   Minor revisions. Minor revisions to an approved site plan that meet
equal or better performance and do not generate additional traffic or increase
noise on the site may be approved by the Planning Department. All other
revisions shall be approved by the Planning Board as required for new
development or additions.
      (6)   Expiration of site plan or plot plan approval. If construction or
development does not begin within two years following site plan or plot plan
approval; or is begun within two years and then discontinued for a period
greater than 180 days; such approval shall expire, and a new site plan or plot
plan must be submitted in accordance with the procedures in this section.
   (E)   Street and utility construction.
      (1)   Plans. When required street and utility construction plans for all
public or private streets, and water, sanitary sewer and storm sewer facilities
shall be submitted to the jurisdiction following conditional approval or
approval of the site plan. For each phase of the site plan, street and utility
construction plans shall include all improvements lying within or adjacent to
that section as well as all water and sanitary sewer lines lying outside that
section and being required to serve that section.
      (2)   No construction without plan approval. None of the improvements
listed above shall be constructed until the street and utility construction
plans for such improvements have been reviewed and approved by the appropriate
authority.
      (3)   Inspections. Work performed pursuant to approved street and utility
construction plans shall be inspected and approved by the appropriate
authority.
   (F)   Runoff control structures and soil erosion and sedimentation control
devices installation. Any approved permanent runoff control structure(s) and
soil erosion and sedimentation control device(s) may be installed prior to
approval of street and utility construction plans.
   (G)   Permits. Upon approval of the site plan, the developer shall be
eligible to apply for building and any other permits and authorizations as
required by this chapter or other laws, unless otherwise provided in this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-18-2006(1); Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 3-11; Ord. passed 10-23-
2016(1); Ord. passed 11-13-2025)
§ 151.076 ZONING MAP AND TEXT AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   Amendments and modifications. Zoning regulations, restrictions and
zone boundaries as shown on the Official Zoning Map may from time to time be
amended, supplemented, changed, modified or repealed according to the
provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Prior building permit approval. Amendments, modifications,
supplements, repeal or other changes in zoning regulations and zone boundaries
shall not be applicable or enforceable without the consent of the owner with
regard to lots for which building permits have been issued, pursuant to state
law, prior to the enactment of the ordinance making the change or changes, so
long as the permits remain valid and unexpired or not revoked.
      (3)   Authorized submission. The Town Council, any local board,
commission or department or any person who resides or owns property within the
zoning jurisdiction of the town may petition for an amendment to this chapter.
      (4)   Pending applications. If an amendment is adopted while an
application for development or zoning approval is pending, the applicant may
choose to comply with the original or new version of the ordinance, pursuant to
state law.
   (B)   Requirements for zoning map amendments.
      (1)   General requirements. Any person authorized to seek an ordinance
amendment shall submit an application according to a form provided by the
Planning Department, along with other required information pursuant to §§
151.335 through
151.337 of this chapter in cases where sketch plans or site plans are required.
      (2)   Fees. All fees shall be due and payable when the application is
made according to the schedule of fees.
      (3)   Filing of application.
         (a)   No application for rezoning to the same district shall be filed
within a one- year period from the date of final action on the previous
rezoning request (other than a withdrawal, subject to the provisions of
division (B)(6) below, prior to the public hearing on a given parcel of land or
portion thereof unless the Planning Board determines that evidence submitted to
it merits consideration for a public hearing at its next meeting.
         (b)   A second request for the same parcel of land or portion thereof
for a different zoning district may occur within a one-year period from final
action on the initial request.
         (c)   Under no circumstances may more than two zoning map amendments
be filed for rezoning a given parcel of land or any portion thereof within any
one-year period.
      (4)   Notification. The posting of signs, publishing of legal notices and
other procedures as provided in §§
151.025 through
151.033 of this chapter shall be followed.
      (5)   Public hearing.
         (a)   Planning Board. The Planning Board shall hold a public hearing
on the application at the first regularly scheduled meeting that allows proper
notification of the hearing. The Planning Department shall present the
application and the Department’s recommendation to the Planning Board. The
Planning Board shall comment on whether the proposed amendment is consistent
with the town’s adopted long-range land use plan and any other officially
adopted planning documents. The Planning Board shall present the application
together with a written report that includes its recommendation and plan
consistency statement to Town Council within 30 days of receiving the
application.
         (b)   Town Council. The Town Council shall hold a public hearing on
the application at the first regularly scheduled meeting after receiving the
Planning Board’s written report and following proper notice of the hearing. If
no written report is received from the Planning Board within 30 days of
referral to the Planning Board, the Town Council may proceed with its
consideration of the amendment without the Planning Board’s report.
      (6)   Application withdrawal.
         (a)   An application for amendment may be withdrawn by the applicant
any time before submission of the public notice to the newspaper announcing the
public hearing.
         (b)   After submission of such notice, an application may be withdrawn
at the discretion of the Planning Board or Town Council at the public hearing.
         (c)   No more than two withdrawals may occur on the same parcel of
land or portion thereof within a one-year period.
         (d)   No application shall be filed on the same parcel of land or
portion thereof within a one-year period after the date of the second
withdrawal.
      (7)   Continuance. The Town Council may continue a rezoning request for
up to two months; provided, the reason for said continuance is stated in the
motion to continue. Nothing in this section shall prohibit a continuance being
granted for a greater period of time provided it is mutually agreed upon by all
parties concerned.
      (8)   Voting.
         (a)   A simple majority favorable vote from the Town Council shall
constitute approval of the application.
         (b)   Applications receiving less than a majority favorable vote or a
majority unfavorable vote from the Town Council shall constitute an unfavorable
decision on the application.
         (c)   Members of appointed boards or the Town Council shall not vote
on any zoning map amendment where the outcome of the matter being considered is
reasonably likely to have direct, substantial and readily identifiable
financial impact on the member.
         (d)   All decisions regarding map amendments shall be accompanied by a
written statement from the decision-making body concerning consistency and
reasonableness of the proposed amendment with the town’s adopted long-range
land use plan and any other officially adopted planning documents.
      (9)   Appeals. Such appeals shall be made within 30 days of the decision
by filing with the clerk to the superior court a written notice of appeal.
   (C)   Amendments to the flood zoning map.
      (1)   Authorization to amend. The location of any Floodway Zone or
Floodway Fringe Zone may be amended in cases where:
         (a)   A flood-control project of the federal, state, county or town
government has substantially altered the flood hazard;
         (b)   Flood data indicates that the boundaries or either of the zones
as shown on the official flood zoning map are no longer correct;
         (c)   A private individual, corporation, firm or governmental agency
has submitted plans to the appropriate local authority, state agencies and the
Federal Emergency Management Agency for a channel improvement or relocation or
a street or bridge which would affect the location of the existing zone
boundaries as shown on the official flood zoning map. Any development activity
requiring as a prerequisite an amendment to the official flood zoning map shall
not be allowed until the amendment to the official flood zoning map is
approved; or
         (d)   Amendment approval is a prerequisite whenever the proposed
development or proposed use combined with the allowable encroachment of the
floodway fringe and with any previously placed or previously approved
encroachment in the floodway will increase the base flood elevation by more
than one foot. The increase in base flood elevation due to the allowable
encroachment of the floodway fringe is listed in the floodway data table in the
flood insurance study prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA).
      (2)   Application process. Application for an amendment to the official
flood zoning map shall be processed in the same manner as an amendment to the
Official Zoning Map. The applicant shall be responsible for submitting the
proposed amendment and supporting documentation to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) for its approval. The application for flood zone map
amendments shall be deemed incomplete if not accompanied by a letter of
approval from FEMA.
      (3)   Conformance to state statutes. The official flood zoning map and
all amendments thereto shall be filed in accordance with G.S. § 143-215.56(c).
   (D)   Requirements for text amendments.
      (1)   Submission of application. Applications to amend the text of this
chapter shall be submitted to the Planning Department.
      (2)   MDOC recommendations. The governing body may refer such
applications to the Multi-Jurisdictional Development Ordinance Committee (MDOC)
for a recommendation. The MDOC shall make its recommendation to the Planning
Board within 60 days of said referral.
      (3)   Planning Board procedure. Applications for text amendments shall be
processed, considered and voted upon in the same procedure as that required for
zoning map amendments except that the Planning Board does not have authority to
approve a text amendment.
      (4)   Planning Board recommendation. The Planning Board shall make a
recommendation to the governing body concerning the proposed text amendment
after receipt of the recommendation from MDOC.
      (5)   Application approval. The governing body shall approve or
disapprove the text amendment after receipt of the recommendation from the
Planning Board.
      (6)   Amendments to soil erosion and sedimentation control requirements.
The town shall incorporate revisions required by the Commission within eight
months following receipt of the required revisions. If standards and provisions
of this chapter currently meet or exceed the required revisions, the Commission
shall be so notified within 90 days of their receipt.
      (7)   Amendments to the watershed protection/storm water management
regulations. Amendments to §§
151.250,
151.251 and
151.265 through
151.278 of this chapter shall be submitted to the Division of Water Quality for
necessary review and Environmental Management Commission approval, when the
state has statutory oversight, prior to adoption by the Town Council. All
amendments are effective upon adoption by the Town Council unless noted
otherwise.
   (E)   Amendments to the designated water supply watershed maps.
      (1)   Authorization to amend. The water supply watershed maps may be
amended in cases where:
         (a)   A new water supply watershed is established;
         (b)   A watershed critical area boundary is changed;
         (c)   A watershed critical area tier line is shifted; or
         (d)   A water supply watershed classification is changed.
      (2)   Application process. Applications for water supply watershed map
amendments shall be processed in accordance with the same procedures used for
zoning map amendments.
(Ord. passed 2-16-2006(1); Ord. passed 5-18-2006(1); Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), §
3-12; Ord. passed 2-21-2008(1); Ord. passed 11-18-2010(1); Ord. passed 10-23-
2016(1); Ord. passed 8-14-2025)
§ 151.077 CONDITIONAL ZONING DISTRICTS AND SPECIAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Purpose of Conditional Zoning (CZ) District.
      (1)   If the regulations and restrictions of a zoning district permitting
a proposed use are inadequate in accordance with the principles of this chapter
and applicable adopted plans, the property owner may apply for rezoning to a
Conditional Zoning (CZ) District bearing the same designation as a standard
zoning district, but subject to additional conditions.
      (2)   The owner shall in such application specify the nature of the
proposed development; and the owner or the town or its agencies shall propose
conditions limited to those that address the conformance of the development and
use of the site to this chapter an officially adopted comprehensive plan and
those that address the impacts reasonably expected to be generated by the
development or use of the site. A statement analyzing the reasonableness of the
proposed rezoning shall be prepared for each petition for the rezoning to a
conditional zoning district. Specific conditions applicable to the districts
may be proposed by the petitioner, the town or its agencies, by only those
conditions mutually approved by the town and the petitioner may be incorporated
into the zoning regulation.
   (B)   General requirements.
      (1)   Conditional Zoning (CZ) District application. A Conditional Zoning
(CZ) District application shall be considered only upon request by the property
owner(s).
      (2)   Other regulations apply. Within a Conditional Zoning (CZ) District,
all standards and requirements of the corresponding zoning district shall be
met, except to the extent that the conditions imposed are more restrictive than
those standards.
      (3)   Uses within district. Within an approved Conditional Zoning (CZ)
District, no use shall be permitted, except pursuant to the conditions imposed
on the Conditional Zoning (CZ) District in the approval of the rezoning.
      (4)   Conditions. The conditions imposed may limit the uses which are
permitted on the property to some one or more use(s) otherwise permitted in the
zone. Such conditions may further specify the location on the property of the
proposed use, the number of dwelling units, the location and extent of
supporting facilities such as parking lots, driveways and access streets, the
location and extent of buffer areas and other special purpose areas, the timing
of development, the location and extent of rights-of-way and other areas to be
dedicated for public purposes, and other such matters as the applicant may
propose as conditions upon the request.
      (5)   Non-compliance to district conditions. Any violation of a condition
included in the approval of a Conditional Zoning (CZ) District shall be treated
the same as any other violation of this chapter and shall be subject to the
same remedies and penalties as any such violation. Any violation of such a
condition shall be deemed to be the same type of violation as the use of a
property for a use not permitted under the district regulations, for the reason
that any use permitted in a Conditional Zoning (CZ) District is permitted only
subject to the specified conditions.
      (6)   Conditions in writing. The petitioner shall have a reasonable
opportunity to consider and respond to any conditions before final action by
the Town Council. Evidence of the petitioner’s approval shall be documented by
the petitioner’s signature on the conditions adopted by the governing body. The
signed conditions shall be retained by the town and a copy provided to the
petitioner.
   (C)   Procedure. Applications for Conditional Zoning (CZ) Districts shall be
processed, considered and voted upon in the same procedure as that required for
zoning map amendments.
   (D)   Special use permits.
      (1)   Approval procedure. Applications for special use permits shall
contain, at minimum, a completed application form and sketch plan. Sketch plans
submitted as part of a special use permit application shall be reviewed by the
Technical Review Committee and the Planning Department for compliance with the
requirements of this chapter. Special use permit applications shall be reviewed
at an evidentiary hearing by the Town Council. Notice of the hearing shall be
provided as required by G.S. § 160D-406(b). All evidence presented at the
public hearing in regard to applications for special use permits shall be under
oath and conducted as a quasi-judicial hearing as outlined in G.S. § 160D-406.
The Mayor or any member temporarily acting as Mayor shall administer oaths to
witnesses.
      (2)   Conditions for approval. 
         (a)   An application for a special use permit shall be approved by the
Town Council only if the Town Council makes the following findings of fact:
            1.   The proposed use is represented by an “S” in the column for
the district in which it is located on the permitted use schedule in this
chapter;
            2.   The proposed conditions meet or exceed the development
standards found in §§
151.145 through
151.155,
151.170 through
151.176,
151.190 through
151.195 and
151.210 through
151.212 of this chapter;
            3.   Either the use as proposed, or the use as proposed subject to
such additional conditions as the owner may propose or the Town Council may
impose, is consistent with the purposes of the district and compatible with
surrounding uses; and
            4.   The use will not materially endanger the public health or
safety if located where proposed and developed according to the plan submitted;
            5.   The use meets all required conditions and specifications;
            6.   The use will not substantially injure the value of adjoining
or abutting property, or that the use is a public necessity; and
            7.   The location and character of the use, if developed according
to the plan submitted, will be in harmony with the area in which is to be
located and in general conformity with the plan of development of the
jurisdiction and its environs.
         (b)   The applicant shall have a reasonable opportunity to consider
and respond to any such conditions before final action to insure
enforceability. Evidence of the applicant’s approval shall be documented by the
signature on the conditions adopted by the Board in the special use permit. The
signed conditions shall be retained by the town and a copy provided to the
petitioner.
      (3)   Greater restrictions. In granting a special use permit, the Town
Council may impose more restrictive requirements upon such permit as it may
deem necessary in order that the purpose and intent of this chapter are served,
but not conditions that the town does not otherwise have authority to impose.
      (4)   Permit denial. If the Town Council fails to make the findings
required by division (D)(2) above or makes other findings inconsistent with the
required findings, then such proposed permit shall be denied.
      (5)   Permit applicability. Any special use permit so authorized shall be
perpetually binding upon the property included in such permit unless
subsequently changed or amended through application for a new or amended
special use permit or until a use otherwise permitted in the district is
established.
      (6)   Compliance with approved permit. No building or other subsequent
permit or approval shall be issued for any development on property subject to a
special use permit, except in accordance with the terms of the permit and the
district.
      (7)   Submission of site plans. Site plans for any development made
pursuant to any special use permit shall be submitted for review in the same
manner as other development plans required by this chapter.
      (8)   Minor modification(s). In approving such site plans, the Town
Council may make minor modifications to the requirements of such special use
permit where such modification will result in equal or better performance and
provided that the objective and purpose of the requirements and conditions of
the special use permit are maintained.
      (9)   Amendment of permit. The Town Council may change or amend any
special use permit subject to the same consideration as provided for in this
chapter for the original issuance of a special use permit.
      (10)   Timing of amendment proposal. No proposal to change or amend any
special use permit shall be considered within a one-year period after the date
of the original authorization of such permit or within a one-year period after
the hearing of any previous proposal to change or amend any such permit.
      (11)   Effect of invalidity. If for any reason any condition imposed
pursuant to these regulations is found to be illegal or invalid, such special
use permit shall be null and void and of no effect.
      (12)   Non-compliance with permit conditions. If after receiving a notice
of violation for violation of the terms or conditions of a special use permit,
the owner fails to correct such violations within a reasonable time, then the
special use permit may, after a hearing, be revoked by the Town Council. The
Town Council shall revoke such permit on all or part of a development if it
finds that there has been a violation that: was intentional; or continued for
an unreasonable time after the owner had notice thereof; or was substantially
inconsistent with the purposes of the district and continued for any time after
the owner had notice thereof and the opportunity to cure. All of the other
remedies of this chapter for a zoning violation shall apply to a violation of
the terms of a special use permit. Civil and/or criminal penalties may accrue
pending the correction of a violation of a special use permit, notwithstanding
the fact that the owner may correct the violation within a reasonable time for
purposes of the revocation provisions of this division (D).
(Ord. passed 5-18-2006(1); Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 3-13; Ord. passed 10-23-
2016(1); Ord. passed 8-14-2025; Ord. passed 11-13-2025)
§ 151.078 NON-CONFORMING LOTS, USES AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Non-conforming lots of record.
      (1)   Single lot of record.
         (a)   When a lot has an area or width which does not conform to the
dimensional requirements of the district where located, but such lot was of
record at the time of adoption of this chapter or any subsequent amendment
which renders such lot non-conforming, then such lot may be used for a use
permitted in the district where located; provided, the following are complied
with, setback dimensions and other requirements, except area or width.
         (b)   In residential zones, only a single-family dwelling shall be
permitted on the non-conforming lot.
         (c)   Nothing contained herein exempts a lot from meeting the
applicable provisions of the county’s Board of Health regulations.
      (2)   Lots with contiguous frontage in one ownership.
         (a)   When two or more adjoining and vacant lots with contiguous
frontage are in one ownership and said lots individually have area or width
which does not conform to the dimensional requirements of the district where
located, but such lots were of record at the time of adoption of this chapter
or any subsequent amendment which renders such lots non-conforming, such lots
shall be considered as a single buildable lot or several buildable lots for any
use permitted in the district where located; provided, the setback and all
other requirements, not involving area or width, are complied with.
         (b)   Nothing contained herein exempts the contiguous lots considered
as a single buildable lot or lots from meeting the applicable provisions of the
county’s Board of Health regulations.
      (3)   Reduction of a lot of record. A lot of record reduced to less than
the required area, width or setback dimension as the result of a condemnation
or purchase by a local or state government agency shall become a non-conforming
lot of record.
   (B)   Non-conforming use of land.
      (1)   Continuance of non-conforming use of land. Any non-conforming use
legally existing at the time of adoption or amendment of this chapter, or any
non-conforming use created by the extension of the jurisdiction, may be
continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful subject to conditions provided
in division (B)(2) below.
      (2)   Conditions for continuance. Such non-conforming use of land shall
be subject to the following conditions.
         (a)   No non-conforming use shall be changed to another non-conforming
use unless such use is determined to be of equal or less intensity. In
determining whether a non-conforming use is of equal or less intensity, the
Board of Adjustment shall consider:
            1.   Probable traffic of each use;
            2.   Parking requirements of each use;
            3.   Probable number of persons on the premises of each use at a
time of peak demand; and
            4.   Off-site impacts of each use, such as noise, glare, dust,
vibration or smoke.
         (b)   No such non-conforming use shall be enlarged, increased or
extended to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at the effective
date of adoption or amendment of this chapter. The number of dwelling units in
a non-conforming residential use shall not be increased.
         (c)   No such non-conforming use shall be moved in whole or in part to
any portion of the lot or parcel other than that occupied by such use at the
effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter.
         (d)   If any non-conforming use of land ceases for any reason for a
continuous period of more than one year, any subsequent use of such land shall
be a permitted use in the district in which such land is located.
         (e)   The resumption of a non-conforming use of land shall not be
permitted if such non-conforming use is superseded by a permitted use for any
period of time.
         (f)   No additional structure(s) not conforming to the requirements of
this chapter shall be erected in connection with such non-conforming use of
land.
      (3)   Junked motor vehicles. Any junked motor vehicle made non-conforming
by adoption of this chapter shall be removed from the property or brought into
compliance within 365 days following the date of adoption of this chapter.
   (C)   Non-conforming structures.
      (1)   Continuance of non-conforming structure. Any non-conforming
structure legally existing at the time of adoption or amendment of this chapter
or any non-conforming structure created by extension of jurisdiction may be
continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the conditions
contained in division (B) above.
      (2)   Conditions for continuance. Such non-conforming structures shall be
subject to the following conditions.
         (a)   No non-conforming structure may be enlarged or altered in any
way which increases its dimensional deficiencies; however, any non-conforming
structure or portion thereof may be altered to decrease its dimensional
deficiencies. Any enlargement of the structure shall conform to the current
dimensional requirement.
         (b)   In the event of damage by fire or other causes to the extent
exceeding 50% of its tax value prior to such damage as established by the
county’s Tax Department, reconstruction of a non-conforming structure shall be
permitted only in compliance with the dimensional provisions of this chapter.
         (c)   In the event of damage by fire or other causes to the extent
causing less than 50% of its tax value prior to such damage as established by
the county’s Tax Department, reconstruction of a non-conforming structure shall
be permitted provided it is constructed:
            1.   In the same manner in which it originally existed; or
            2.   In compliance with the dimensional requirements.
         (d)   No non-conforming structure shall be moved or relocated unless
it is made to comply with the dimensional and use requirements of the district
in which it is relocated.
      (3)   Preservation of safe or lawful conditions. Nothing in this chapter
shall prevent the strengthening or restoration to a safe or lawful condition
any part of any building declared unsafe or unlawful, by the Building Inspector
or other duly authorized official. Non-conforming billboard may remain subject
to conditions of this division (C).
      (4)   Non-conforming situation resulting from governmental acquisition.
Any zone lot reduced in size by municipal, county or state condemnation or
purchase of land shall obtain non- conforming lot or building status to the
extent that said condemnation or purchase causes noncompliance with any
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 3-14)
§ 151.079 HISTORIC DISTRICTS.
   Request for changes in the zoning classification of property within a
historic district shall be processed and considered in the same manner and
procedure as set forth in this chapter for rezoning requests, except that the
Historic Preservation Commission shall forward a recommendation to the Planning
Board prior to Planning Board taking action on any such request.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 3-15)
§ 151.080 ZONING VESTED RIGHTS.
   (A)   Establishment of a zoning vested right.
      (1)   Establishment of vested right. A zoning vested right shall be
deemed established upon the valid approval, or conditional approval, by the
appropriate approval authority as specified in division (B) below of a site
specific development plan, following notice and public hearing by the governing
body. Unless outlined differently in this chapter, a permit or development
approval will expire two years after approval if no progress toward development
or completion.
      (2)   Approval of site specific development plan.
         (a)   The approving authority may approve a site specific development
plan upon such terms and conditions as may reasonably be necessary to protect
the public health, safety and welfare.
         (b)   Notwithstanding divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2) above, approval of a
site specific development plan with the condition that a variance be obtained
shall not confer a zoning vested right unless and until the necessary variance
is obtained.
      (3)   Effective date of approval. A site specific development plan shall
be deemed approved upon the effective date of the approval authority’s action
or ordinance relating thereto.
      (4)   Effect of additional, new or amended regulations. The establishment
of a zoning vested right shall not preclude the application of overlay zoning
that imposes additional requirements but does not affect the allowable type or
intensity of use, or ordinances or regulations that are general in nature are
applicable to all property subject to land use regulation by the jurisdiction
including, but not limited to, Building, Fire, Plumbing, Electrical and
Mechanical Codes. Otherwise, the application of new or amended regulations
shall become effective with respect to property that is subject to a site
specific development plan upon the expiration or termination of the vested
right in accordance with this chapter.
      (5)   Vested right runs with property. A zoning vested right is not a
personal right, but shall attach to and run with the applicable property. After
approval of a site specific development plan, all successors to the original
landowner shall be entitled to exercise such right while applicable.
      (6)   Duration of site-specific plan vested rights.
         (a)   Depending on satisfying elements of progress on the site
specific plan concurrent with other sections of the ordinance notwithstanding,
the vested right shall be from two to five years from approval, depending on
the size and nature of the site, number of phases and other factors for
development.
         (b)   Developments over 25 acres that have been determined to be a
long-term project requiring additional time for phases of development may
request up to seven years of vesting, except for exceptions as outlined in G.S.
§ 160D-108.
   (B)   Approval procedures.
      (1)   Notice and public hearing. Notice of any proposed approval for a
zoning vested right shall be as provided in §
151.025(B)(1)(d) of this chapter. The governing body shall hold a public
hearing on the matter in accordance with §
151.026(C) of this chapter.
      (2)   Approval by governing body. The following plans shall be vested for
two years from the date of approval by the governing body after review by the
Planning Board following notice and public hearing by the governing board:
         (a)   A preliminary plat for a minor subdivision;
         (b)   A plot plan;
         (c)   Minor site plans in accordance with §
151.075(D) of this chapter;
         (d)   A master or common sign plan;
         (e)   A watershed development plan;
         (f)   A landscaping plan;
         (g)   A preliminary plat for a major subdivision;
         (h)   A major site plan approved in accordance with §
151.075(D) of this chapter, but not including master or common sign plans,
watershed development plans or landscaping plans;
         (i)   A special use permit; or
         (j)   A planned development, residential or planned development, mixed
unified development plan.
   (C)   Plans not vested.
      (1)   Conceptual plans. Because the following plans frequently lack
sufficient detail, they are not vested under this chapter:
         (a)   A planned development, residential or planned development, mixed
sketch plan; or
         (b)   A subdivision master plan or sketch plan.
      (2)   Plans not relating to type and intensity of use. The following
types of plans are reviewed and approved under statues not related to the type
and intensity of use in the context of G.S. § 153A-334.1 and, therefore, are
not considered vested in the meaning of this chapter:
         (a)   Soil erosion and sedimentation control plans;
         (b)   Utility and street construction plans; or
         (c)   Building and other construction plans.
   (D)   Compliance.
      (1)   Conformance review. Following approval or conditional approval of a
site specific development plan, nothing in this chapter shall exempt such a
plan from subsequent reviews and approvals to ensure compliance with the terms
and conditions of the original approval; provided that, such reviews and
approvals are not inconsistent with the original approval.
      (2)   Non-compliance. Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the
revocation of the original approval or other remedies for failure to comply
with applicable terms and conditions of the approval or this chapter. Any
revocation of the original approval must follow the same procedure used in the
original approval.
      (3)   Life of building permit. A building permit shall not expire or be
revoked because of the running of time while a zoning vested right under this
section is outstanding.
   (E)   Termination. A zoning right that has been vested as provided in this
chapter shall terminate:
      (1)   At the end of the applicable vesting period with respect to
buildings and uses for which no valid building permit application has been
filed;
      (2)   With the written consent of the affected landowner;
      (3)   Upon findings by the governing board that natural or human-made
hazards on or in the immediate vicinity of the property, if uncorrected, would
pose a serious threat to the public health, safety and welfare if the project
were to proceed as contemplated in the site specific development plan;
      (4)   Upon payment to the affected landowner of compensation for all
costs, expenses and other losses incurred by the landowner, including, but not
limited to, all fees paid in consideration of financing, and all architectural,
planning, marketing, legal and other consultant’s fees incurred after approval
by the jurisdiction together with interest thereon at the legal rate until
paid. Compensation shall not include any diminution in the value of the
property which is caused by such action;
      (5)   Upon findings by the governing body that the landowner or his or
her representative intentionally supplied inaccurate information or made
material misrepresentations which made a difference in the approval by the
approval authority of the site specific development plan; or
      (6)   Upon the enactment or promulgation of a state or federal law or
regulation that precludes development as contemplated in the site specific
development plan, in which case the approval authority may modify the affected
provisions, upon a finding that the change in state or federal law has a
fundamental effect on the plan.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 3-16; Ord. passed 8-14-2025; Ord. passed 11-13-
2025)
§ 151.081 REQUIRED INFORMATION FOR OBTAINING CERTAIN PERMITS.
Table 3: Required Information
Information Building Sign Use/ Location Event Floodplain Grading
Table 3: Required Information
Information                                                       Building Sign    Use/     Event Floodplain Grading
                                                                                   Location
Address of job                                                    X        X       X        X     X          X
Application type (new, addition, alteration or installation)      X        X       X
                                                                  State    §§    State
Construction plans, as required by...                             Building 151.145 Building
                                                                  Code     -       Code
                                                                           151.155
   Erosion-control plan, if disturbing greater than one acre   X                X              X          X
   Watershed development plan, if job is located in designated X                X              X          X
watershed
Dates of event                                                                              X
Electrical power company                                          X        X       X
Financial responsibility/ownership form                                                                      X
Gas power company                                                 X
Heated square feet                                                X
Manufactured dwelling only...
   Year and model name                                                          X
   Name, address and telephone number of setup contractor                       X
   If to be located in manufactured dwelling park
   Name of park                                                                 X
   Space number                                                                 X
Master sign or common sign plan, if required                               X
Name, address and telephone of...
   Property owner                                              X        X       X        X     X          X
   Building contractor                                         X        X       X
   Grading contractor                                                                                     X
Name, address and telephone number of sponsor or organizer                                  X
Name of subdivision or development                                X                X              X          X
Number of baths                                                   X
Number of rooms (do not count baths, foyer and the like)          X
Number of stories                                                 X
                                                                  §       §      §             §§
Plot plan, for requirement see...                                 151.335  151.335 151.335        151.290 -
                                                                                                  151.303
Plat book and page number                                         X                X              X          X
Proposed use (i.e., single-family, church, garage and the like)   X                X        X
Sign dimensions                                                            X
Sign illumination (electrical contractor)                                  X
Sign type                                                                  X
Subcontractor(s) name and license number
   Electrical                                                  X        X       X
   Plumbing                                                    X                X
   Mechanical                                                  X
Tax map number                                                    X                X              X          X
Township                                                                   X                X                X
Type of heat and air conditioning                                 X
Type of sewage disposal (i.e., public sewer, septic tank and the  X                X        X
like)
Type of water supply (i.e., public water, private well and the    X                X        X
like)
Unheated square feet                                              X
 
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), App. A-3)
**** DISTRICT REQUIREMENTS ****
§ 151.095 DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
   In order to achieve the purposes of this chapter as set forth, all property
within the jurisdiction of the town is divided into districts with the
designations and purposes listed in §
151.096 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 4-1)
§ 151.096 DISTRICT DESCRIPTIONS.
   (A)   General use districts.
      (1)   Agricultural: AG, Agricultural District. The AG, Agricultural
District, is primarily intended to accommodate uses of an agricultural nature,
including farm residences and farm tenant housing. It also accommodates
scattered non-farm residences on large tracts of land. It is not intended for
major residential subdivisions. The district is established for the following
purposes:
         (a)   To preserve and encourage the continued use of land for
agricultural, forest and open space purposes;
         (b)   To discourage scattered commercial and industrial land uses;
         (c)   To concentrate urban development in and around area growth
centers, thereby avoiding premature conversion of farmland to urban uses; and
         (d)   To discourage any use which, because of its character, would
create premature or extraordinary public infrastructure and service demands.
      (2)   Single-family residential.
         (a)   In the following districts, the number refers to the minimum lot
size in thousands of square feet.
            1.   RS-40, Residential Single-Family District. The RS-40,
Residential Single-Family District is primarily intended to accommodate single-
family detached dwellings on large lots in areas without access to public water
and wastewater services. The district is established to promote single-family
detached residences where environmental features, public service capacities or
soil characteristics necessitate very low density single-family development.
The overall gross density in RS-40 areas will typically be 1.0 unit per acre or
less.
            2.   RS-30, Residential Single-Family District. The RS-30,
Residential Single-Family District is primarily intended to accommodate
moderate density single-family detached dwellings lots in areas without access
to public water and wastewater services. The overall gross density in RS-30
areas will typically be 1.3 units per acre or less.
         (b)   The following districts require public sewer service: RS-20,
Residential Single-Family District. The RS-20, Residential Single-Family
District is primarily intended to accommodate low to moderate density single-
family detached dwellings in suburban areas at an overall maximum density of
1.9 units per acre.
         (c)   The following districts require public water and sewer service.
            1.   RS-15, Residential Single-Family District. The RS-15,
Residential Single-Family District is primarily intended to accommodate
moderate density single-family detached dwellings in suburban areas at a
maximum overall density of 2.5 units per acre.
            2.   RS-12, Residential Single-Family District. The RS-12,
Residential Single-Family District is primarily intended to accommodate
moderate density single-family detached dwellings in suburban or urban areas at
a maximum overall density of 3.0 units per acre.
            3.   RS-9, Residential Single-Family District. The RS-9,
Residential Single-Family District is primarily intended to accommodate
moderate to high density single-family detached dwellings in urban areas with a
maximum overall density of 4.0 units per acre.
            4.   RS-7, Residential Single-Family District. The RS-7,
Residential Single-Family District is primarily intended to accommodate high
density single-family detached dwellings in urban areas at a maximum overall
density of 5.0 units per acre.
            5.   RS-5, Residential Single-Family District. The RS-5, Single-
Family Residential District is primarily intended to accommodate high density
single-family detached dwellings in urban areas at a maximum overall density of
7.0 units per acre.
      (3)   Multi-family residential. In the following districts, the number
refers to dwelling units per gross acre. Public water and sewer service is
required in all districts.
         (a)   RM-5, Residential Multi-Family District. The RM-5, Residential
Multi-Family District, is primarily intended to accommodate duplexes, twin-
homes, townhouses, cluster housing and similar residential uses at a maximum
overall density of 5.0 units per acre.
         (b)   RM-8, Residential Multi-Family District. The RM-8, Residential
Multi-Family District, is primarily intended to accommodate duplexes, twin-
homes, townhouses, cluster housing and similar residential uses at a maximum
overall density of 8.0 units per acre.
         (c)   RM-12, Residential Multi-Family District. The RM-12, Residential
Multi-Family District, is primarily intended to accommodate multi-family uses
at a maximum overall density of 12.0 units per acre.
         (d)   RM-18, Residential Multi-Family District. The RM-18, Residential
Multi-Family District, is primarily intended to accommodate multi-family uses
at a maximum overall density of 18.0 units per acre.
         (e)   RM-26, Residential Multi-Family District. The RM-26, Residential
Multi-Family District, is primarily intended to accommodate multi-family uses
at a maximum overall density of 26.0 units per acre.
      (4)   Office, commercial and industrial.
         (a)   LO, Limited Office District. The LO, Limited Office District, is
primarily intended to accommodate low intensity medical, professional,
administrative and government office uses on small to mid-sized sites near
residential areas.
         (b)   GO-M, General Office Moderate Intensity. The GO-M, General
Office Moderate Intensity District, is primarily intended to accommodate
moderate intensity office and institutional uses, moderate density residential
uses at a maximum of 12.0 units per acre, and supporting service and retail
uses.
         (c)   GO-H, General Office High Intensity. The GO, General Office High
Intensity District, is primarily intended to accommodate high intensity office
and institutional uses, high density residential uses at a maximum of 26.0
units per acre, and supporting service and retail uses.
         (d)   NB, Neighborhood Business District. The NB, Neighborhood
Business District, is primarily intended to accommodate very low intensity
office, retail and personal service uses within residential areas. The district
is established to provide convenient locations for businesses which serve the
needs of surrounding residents without disrupting the character of the
neighborhood. It is not intended to accommodate retail uses which primarily
attract passing motorists. Compatibility with nearby residences is reflected in
design standards for both site layout and buildings.
         (e)   LB, Limited Business District. The LB, Limited Business
District, is primarily intended to accommodate moderate intensity shopping and
services close to residential areas. The district is established to provide
locations for businesses which serve nearby neighborhoods. The district is
typically located near the intersection of collectors or thoroughfares in areas
which are otherwise developed with residences.
         (f)   GB, General Business District. The GB, General Business
District, is primarily intended to accommodate a wide range of retail, service
and office uses. The district is typically located along thoroughfares in areas
which have developed with minimal front setbacks.
         (g)   HB, Highway Business District. The HB, Highway Business
District, is primarily intended to accommodate those retail service and
distributive uses which are typically located along thoroughfares. The district
is established to provide locations for establishments which require high
visibility and good road access, or which cater primarily to passing motorists.
Developments in this district generally have substantial front setbacks.
         (h)   SC, Shopping Center District. The SC, Shopping Center District,
is primarily intended to accommodate a wide range of high intensity retail and
service developments meeting the shopping needs of the community and the
region. The district is established on large sites to provide locations for
major developments which contain multiple uses, shared parking and drives,
coordinated signage and high-quality landscaping.
         (i)   CP, Corporate Park District. The CP, Corporate Park District, is
primarily intended to accommodate office, warehouse, research and development
and assembly uses on large sites in a planned, campus-like setting compatible
with adjacent residential uses. The district may also contain retail and
service uses which customarily locate within planned employment centers.
         (j)   LI, Light Industrial District. The LI, Light Industrial
District, is primarily intended to accommodate limited manufacturing,
wholesaling, warehousing, research and development and related commercial/
service activities which, in their normal operations, have little or no adverse
effect upon adjoining properties.
         (k)   HI, Heavy Industrial District. The HI, Heavy Industrial
District, is primarily intended to accommodate a wide range of assembling,
fabricating and manufacturing activities. The district is established for the
purpose of providing appropriate locations and development regulations for uses
which may have significant environmental impacts or require special measures to
ensure compatibility with adjoining properties.
      (5)   Public and institutional: PI, Public and Institutional District.
         (a)   The PI, Public and Institutional District, is intended to
accommodate mid- and large-sized public, semi-public and institutional uses
which have a substantial land use impact or traffic generation potential.
         (b)   It is not intended for smaller public and institutional uses
customarily found within residential areas.
   (B)   Planned unit development districts.
      (1)   PD-R, Planned Unit Development - Residential.
         (a)   The PD-R District is intended to accommodate a variety of
housing types developed on large tracts in accordance with a unified
development plan.
         (b)   The PD-R District also accommodates neighborhood business and
office uses which primarily serve nearby residents.
      (2)   PD-M, Planned Unit Development - Mixed. The PD-M District is
intended to accommodate residential, commercial and light industrial uses
developed on large tracts in accordance with a unified development plan.
   (C)   Conditional Zoning (CZ) Districts.
      (1)   Districts established. A Conditional Zoning (CZ) District, bearing
the designation CZ, is hereby established as a companion district for every
district established herein. These districts are CZ-AG, CZ-RS-40, CZ-RS-30, CZ-
RS-20, CZ-RS-15, CZ-RS-12, CZ-RS-9, CZ-RS-7, CZ-RS-5, CZ-RM-5, CZ-RM-8, CZ-RM-
12, CZ-RM-18, CZ-RM-26, CZ-LO, CZ-GO-M, CZ-GO-H, CZ-NB, CZ-LB, CZ-GB, CZ-HB,
CZ-SC, CZ-CP, CZ-LI, CZ-HI, CZ-PI, CZ-PD-R and CZ-PD-M. All regulations which
apply to a general use zoning district also apply to the companion Conditional
Zoning (CZ) District. All other regulations, which may be offered by the
property owner and approved by the jurisdiction as part of the rezoning
process, also apply.
      (2)   Application. The conditional zoning district classification will be
considered only upon request of the property owner for rezoning.
      (3)   Zoning designations of “CU-” on Official Zoning Map. Existing
zoning designations of “CU-” on the Official Zoning Map of the town have been
approved historically via a legislative process and thus will be considered and
administered consistent with parcels designated as conditional zoning (CZ) as
of 10-13-2016.
   (D)   Overlay districts. Overlay districts establish certain area
regulations which are in addition to the underlying general use, planned unit
development or conditional zoning district(s).
      (1)   WCA, Watershed Critical Area District.
         (a)   The WCA Overlay District is intended to set forth regulations
for the protection of public drinking water supplies and is applicable to all
lands adjacent to and which drain toward existing or proposed water supply
intakes or reservoirs.
         (b)   These regulations are specified in §
151.250 of this chapter and § 7-3 (Watershed critical areas).
      (2)   GWA, General Watershed Area District.
         (a)   The GWA Overlay District is intended to set forth regulations
for the protection of public drinking water supplies and are applicable to all
lands which drain toward such supplies and are outside of the WCA overlay
district.
         (b)   These regulations are specified in §§
151.250 and
151.251 of this chapter.
      (3)   FH, Flood Hazard District.
         (a)   The FH Overlay District is intended to set forth regulations
which will minimize the damage done by floods.
         (b)   These regulations are specified in §§
151.290 through
151.303 of this chapter.
      (4)   HD, Historic District.
         (a)   The HD Overlay District is intended to set forth regulations
which will help maintain the historic integrity of certain areas in the county.
         (b)   These regulations are specified in §
151.105 of this chapter.
      (5)   SR, Scenic Corridor District.
         (a)   The SR Overlay District is intended to set forth regulations
which will enhance the attractiveness of major thoroughfares which enter and/or
pass through the county.
         (b)   These regulations are specified in §
151.105 of this chapter.
      (6)   AR, Airport District.
         (a)   The AR Overlay District is intended to prohibit the erection of
structures which would, by virtue of their height, interfere with operations at
Piedmont Triad International Airport.
         (b)   The district is also intended to keep residential densities near
the airport very low so as to minimize the negative effects of aircraft noise
on homes.
         (c)   Regulations for the AR Overlay District are specified in §
151.105 of this chapter.
      (7)   MH, Manufactured Housing District.
         (a)   The MH Overlay District is intended to set forth regulations
governing the development of subdivisions for manufactured housing in certain
areas of the county.
         (b)   These regulations are specified in §
151.105 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 4-2; Ord. passed 10-23-2016(1); Ord. passed 8-14-
2025)
§ 151.097 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Permitted use schedule.
      (1)   Tabulation of permitted uses.
         (a)   Within each zoning district indicated on the Official Zoning Map
and subject to all requirements and conditions specified in this chapter, land,
buildings and structures shall only be used and buildings and structures shall
only be erected which are intended or designed to be used for uses listed in
the permitted use schedule, Table 4.
         (b)   In the appropriate columns of Table 4, uses permitted by right
in the various districts are indicated with a “P”, uses requiring a special use
permit are indicated by an “S”, uses permitted by right subject to meeting
additional development standards as set forth in §§
151.145 through
151.155,
151.170 through
151.176,
151.190 through
151.195 and
151.210 through
151.212 of this chapter are indicated with a “D”, and uses requiring a
Manufactured Housing Overlay Zone are indicated with a “Z”.
         (c)   The column on the far right labeled “LUC” indicates the land use
classification of each use as it relates to planting yard requirements found in
§§
151.190 through
151.195 of this chapter.
      (2)   Formulation of permitted use schedule.
         (a)   The Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) system was utilized
in the preparation of this table. SIC and its successor, the North American
Industrial Classification System (NAICS), shall be referred to as a guide for
purposes of interpretation by the Enforcement Officer. SIC codes are used to
refer to SIC classifications. Entries with 0000 in the Reference SIC column do
not correspond to any classification in the SIC manual.
         (b)   When a use is not listed in the permitted use schedule, the
Enforcement Officer shall classify it with that use in the table most similar
to it. SIC and NAICS shall serve as a guide in classifying any unlisted use.
         (c)   Rental and leasing of any commodity shall be permitted under the
same classification and in the same districts as are sales of that commodity,
unless rental or leasing of that commodity is listed separately in the
permitted use schedule.
         (d)   If an industrial plant or facility involves two (or more)
manufacturing activities with different SIC codes on the same zone lot, the
industrial plant shall be permitted only in those zoning districts where the
more restricted activity is permitted. (For example, an industrial plant
preparing canned peanuts and also manufacturing the cans is allowed in those
zoning districts permitting can manufacturing.)
   (B)   Mixed uses. Two or more permitted uses may occupy the same principal
building.
   (C)   Prohibited uses. Within certain overlay districts, some uses are
prohibited, regardless of the uses permitted in the underlying zoning district
(s). The following uses are prohibited in the overlay districts listed.
      (1)   Scenic Corridor Overlay District. Class A, B and C manufactured
dwellings are prohibited in the Scenic Corridor Overlay District.
      (2)   Airport Overlay District. Multi-family housing and single-family
housing on lots less than 40,000 square feet are prohibited in the Airport
Overlay District.
      (3)   Watershed critical area. See § 7-3.5 (Spill risk reduction) for the
list of uses prohibited in the watershed critical areas.
      (4)   Flood hazard area. Storage or processing of materials that are
flammable, corrosive, toxic or explosive, or which could otherwise be injurious
to human, animal or plant life in time of flood shall be prohibited from the
flood hazard areas.
(Ord. of 4-9-2007(1); Ord. of 11-17-2011(1); Ord. of 11-17-2011(2); Ord. passed
11-13-2025)
§ 151.098 DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Within the zoning districts as shown on the Official Zoning Map, all the
following dimensional requirements shall be complied with.
   (A)   Agricultural and Single-Family Districts.
      (1)   Dimensional requirements for Agricultural and Single-Family
Districts. Dimensional requirements for Agricultural and Single-Family
Districts are found in Table 5 below.
Table 5: Agricultural and Single-Family District Dimensional
Requirements
 AG RS-4 0 RS-3 0 RS-2 0 RS-15 RS-12 RS-9 RS-7 RS-5
Table 5: Agricultural and Single-Family District Dimensional Requirements
                                         AG     RS-4 0 RS-3 0 RS-2 0 RS-15  RS-12  RS-9  RS-7  RS-5
Min. lot size (ft.2)                     40,000 40,000 30,000 20,000 15,000 12,000 9,000 7,000 5,000
Min. lot width (ft.)
   Interior lot                       150    150    100    90     80     75     60    50    50
   Corner lot                         150    150    100    100    90     85     75    70    70
Min. street frontage (ft.)               50     50     50     45     45     45     30    30    30
Min. street setback (ft.)a
   Local, subcollector, collector — 40/65  40/65  40/65  35/60  30/55  30/55  30/55 25/50 20/45
front
   Local, subcollector, collector — 40/65  40/65  20/45  20/40  15/40  15/40  15/40 15/40 15/40
   Minor thoroughfare                 45/80  45/80  45/80  40/75  40/75  40/75  40/75 35/70 35/70
   Major thoroughfare                 50/95  50/95  50/95  50/95  50/95  50/95  50/95 45/90 45/90
Min. interior setbacks (ft.)
   Side yard                          15     15     10     10     10     10     5     5     5
   Rear yard                          30     30     30     30     30     30     25    20    15
Max. building height (ft.)b              50     50     50     50     50     50     50    50    50
Max. building coverage (% of lot)        30     30     30     30     30     30     35    40    45
Notes to Table:
a Setback from right-of-way line or property line/setback from street centerline, whichever is
greater.
b No more than 3 full or partial stories entirely above grade.
1) A corner lot has two street setbacks. The setback of lower setback category shall be considered
the side street. If both streets are of the same setback category, the property owner shall
designate the side street for his or her lot.
2) A through lot has 2 street setbacks, but no rear setback.
3) On a corner lot of record, the side street setback may be reduced, if necessary, to yield a
buildable width equal to 60% of the lot width.
4) For any lot of record, the street setback and the rear setback may be reduced, if necessary, to
yield a buildable depth equal to 40% of the lot depth. The rear setback shall be reduced first, but
not below 15 feet and the street setback shall not be reduced by greater than 10 feet.
 
      (2)   Cluster development.
         (a)   Cluster option.
            1.   Cluster development may be used in any district which permits
single-family uses if the tract is ten acres or more and is served by municipal
sanitary sewer.
            2.   Cluster development may be used on tracts smaller than ten
acres if street right-of-way in a street or highway corridor pursuant to G.S. §
136-66.10 is dedicated and the development will be served by municipal sanitary
sewer.
            3.   Cluster development is allowed in WCA and GWA areas of WS-III
and WS-IV water supply watersheds under the performance requirement listed in §
151.231(B) of this chapter. For all WCA and GWA areas, the total number of lots
shall not exceed the number of units allowed for single-family detached
developments under the low density option as listed in Table 6 below.
         (b)   Cluster required. The Planning Board or Town Council may require
that cluster development be used if right-of-way dedication is required
pursuant to G.S. § 136-66.10 or the development lies partially or wholly within
a watershed critical area.
         (c)   Development standards. The objective of the cluster option is to
place the houses in a development closer together and on smaller lots than
would normally be permitted by the zoning district in which the development is
located, and to place land which would otherwise have been included in private
lots into public dedication or common area.
            1.   When cluster development is employed, all lot size and other
dimensional requirements for single-family dwellings are decreased to comply
with all requirements of a Smaller Lot RS Zone.
            2.   The sum of those areas placed into common area as open space,
those areas dedicated as public open space in excess of any required dedication
for such purposes, and those areas dedicated as street right-of-way pursuant to
G.S. § 136-66.10(a) shall not be less than 15% of the total area of the
development.
            3.   The maximum number of lots shall be determined as follows:
               a.   Calculate the gross acreage of the tract, excluding any
existing street right-of-way;
               b.   Subtract three-fourths of the area of any drainageway and/
or open space required to be dedicated by this chapter; and
               c.   Multiply by the density factor from Table 6 below.
Table 6: Cluster Development Lot and Density Requirements for Single-
Family Development
Development Zoned Lots and Buildings Must Meet Density Factor (Per Acre)
                  Requirements of...
Table 6: Cluster Development Lot and Density Requirements for Single-Family
Development
Development Zoned        Lots and Buildings Must Meet Density Factor (Per Acre)
                         Requirements of...
RS-40 (WCA Tier 2)       RS-40                        0.20
RS-40 (WCA Tier 3)       RS-40                        0.33
RS-40                    RS-20                        1.0
RS-30                    RS-15                        1.3
RS-20                    RS-12                        1.9
RS-15                    RS-9                         2.5
RS-12                    RS-7                         3.0
RS-9, RM-5               RS-5                         4.0
RS-7, RM-8               RS-5                         5.0
RM-12, RM-18, RM-26, GO- RS-5                         6.0
M and GO-H
 
            4.   Common areas shall be located within the development to:
               a.   Preserve stands of trees, lakes, steep slopes, historic
sites or other significant features;
               b.   Provide common green space in the development for aesthetic
purposes and pedestrian use;
               c.   Provide space for common recreation facilities and meeting
places;
               d.   Provide buffering from adjacent land uses of higher
intensity; or
               e.   Minimize storm water flow and runoff impacts to receiving
waters in WCA and GWA areas.
            5.   Common area for open space shall be of usable dimensions,
including a minimum width of 24 feet and shall be accessible to all homeowners
in the development.
               6.   If approved by the governing body, a site may be reserved
for a school, church, civic club, public recreation center or public library
within the area that would otherwise have been common area.
Figure 7: Cluster Development (No Scale)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/becb2f9c6e5d0add85cd879a02d64c74e71e8c8f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-776.png]
 
      (3)    Zero side setback. See Figure 8 below.
          (a)   Zero side setback option. Zero side setback development may be
used in any district which permits single-family uses if the development
contains ten or more contiguous lots and is served by municipal sanitary sewer.
         (b)   Development standards.
            1.   Setbacks of zero feet are permitted only where the lots on
both of the affected lot line are part of a zero side setback development.
            2.   A wall and roof maintenance easement (five feet along one-
story walls, ten feet along two-story walls) shall be provided on the opposite
side of the zero setback lot line.
            3.    Whene ver one side setbac k is zero, the minim um setbac k on
the opp osite side of the sam e lot shall be twic e the minimum side setback
required by this chapter for the zoning district in which the development is
located.
Figure 8: Zero Side Setback (No Scale)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/becb2f9c6e5d0add85cd879a02d64c74e71e8c8f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-778.png]
 
      (4)   Lots adjoining public open space. See Figure 9 below.
         (a)   Lot area reduction option. Single-family lots with public sewer
service which abut dedicated public drainageway and open space may be developed
with less than the area required in Table 6 above; provided, the following
requirements are met.
         (b)   Development standards.
            1.   No lot shall be less than 60% of the minimum lot area for the
zoning district in which it is located or 5,000 square feet, whichever is
greater.
            2.   Rear setbacks may be reduced to 15 feet, if the rear property
line(s) abut public drainageway and open space areas.
            3.   A note shall be placed on the plat stating:
 
“Lots have been reduced in area in accordance with §
151.098(A)(4), and that all other dimensional requirements of this chapter
apply.”
 
Figure 9: Lots Adjoining Public Open Space (No Scale)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/becb2f9c6e5d0add85cd879a02d64c74e71e8c8f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-780.png]
 
   (B)     Multi-family districts.
      (1)     Dimen sional require ments for permitted single-family district
uses and two-family dwellings in RM, GO-M and GO-H Districts. See Table 7
below.
 
Table 7: Dimensional Requirements for Permitted Single-Family District Uses and
Two-Family Dwellings in
RM, GO-M, GO-H, NB and LO Districts
Min. Lot Size  RM- 5   RM- 8   RM-1 2  GO-M    RM-1 8 RM-2 6 GO- H NB    LO
(ft.2)
Single-family  8,500   7,000   7,000   7,000   5,000  5,000  5,000 9,000 9,00 0
Two-familya    17,50 0 12,00 0 11,00 0 11,00 0 9,000  7,000  7,000 9,000 9,00 0
All lots and
structures
must meet      RS-9    RS-7    RS-7    RS-7    RS-5   RS-5   RS-5  RS-9  RS-9
other
requirements
of
Notes to Table:
a Non-conforming lots of record in the RM and GO Districts may be developed;
provided, they meet the following minimum lot sizes: 9,000 ft.2 in RM-5, RM-8,
NB and LO and 7,000 ft.2 in RM-12, RM-18, RM-26, GO-M and GO-H.
 
      (2)   Dimensional requirements for multi-family developments with three
or more units. Dimensional requirements for multi-family developments with
three or more units are found in Table 8 below.
Table 8: Dimensional Requirements in RM and GO Districts for Multi-
Family Developments (Including Townhouses and Residential Condominiums),
Residential Group Developments, Private Dormitories, Single-Room
Occupancy Residences, Congregate Care Facilities and all Non-Residential
Uses Permitted in the RM and GO Districts
 RM-5 RM-8 RM-12 GO-M RM-1 8 RM-2 6 GO-H
Table 8: Dimensional Requirements in RM and GO Districts for Multi-Family
Developments (Including Townhouses and Residential Condominiums), Residential
Group Developments, Private Dormitories, Single-Room Occupancy Residences,
Congregate Care Facilities and all Non-Residential Uses Permitted in the RM and
GO Districts
                               RM-5   RM-8   RM-12  GO-M   RM-1 8  RM-2 6 GO-H
Min. lot size (ft.2) for first 26,000 16,000 15,000 15,000 12,00 0 9,000  9,000
3 DUs
Add. lot area per additional   8,712  5,445  3,630  3,630  2,420   1,675  1,675
unit (ft.2)
Min. lot width (ft.) for first 75     75     75     75     60      60     60
3 DUs
Additional lot width per additional unit — 5 ft., until total lot width = 120
ft.
Minimum street frontage (ft.)  50     50     50     50     50      50     50
Minimum street setback (ft.)a
   Local, subcollector and  30/55  25/50  25/50  25/50  25/50   25/50  25/50
collector
   Minor thoroughfare       40/75  35/70  35/70  35/70  35/70   35/70  35/70
   Major thoroughfare       50/95  45/90  45/90  45/90  45/90   45/90  45/90
Minimum interior setbacks (ft.)
   Side                     10     10     10     10     10      10     10
   Rear                     25     25     25     25     25      25     25
Minimum building separation    20     20     20     20     20      20     20
(ft.)
Maximum building height (ft.)  50b    50b    50/80c 50/80c 50/80c  -c     -c
Max. building coverage (% of   35     40     45     45     45      50     50
lot)
Notes to Table:
a Setback from right-of-way line or property line setback from street
centerline, whichever is greater.
b No more than 3 full or partial stories entirely above grade.
c Increase all setbacks by 1 foot for every 1 foot in height between 50 and 80
feet. No additional setback is required for buildings above 80 feet in height.
 
      (3)   Additional requirements for multi-family developments.
         (a)   A multi-family dwelling shall not be placed behind and on the
same lot as a single-family dwelling.
         (b)   In order to permit adequate fire protection, all portions of
every building shall be located within 300 feet of a public street that
furnishes direct access to the property unless the Fire Marshal determines that
the fire hydrants and service drives within the development will offer adequate
protection.
         (c)   All common driveways within the development shall have approved
traffic circulation and shall be kept available for emergency and service use
by any public vehicle.
         (d)   Off-street parking spaces shall be located within 200 feet of
each building in an amount proportional to the number of dwelling units in each
building. No parking area with five or more spaces shall be located closer than
ten feet to a dwelling wall with windows or doors.
         (e)   1.   All walkways within two feet of and perpendicular to
parking spaces shall have a minimum width of six feet.
            2.   Any walkway serving only one dwelling unit, other than a
handicapped unit, shall have a minimum width of three feet.
            3.   All other walkways shall have a minimum width of four feet.
            4.   Walkways shall be of dustless all-weather surfaces.
         (f)   Open space and/or recreation facilities.
            1.   Open space and/or recreation facilities shall be provided at
the rate of 10% of the total land area in developments of under three acres or
in the GO-H District with a building more than four stories and shall be at a
single location.
            2.   In developments of three acres or more, open space shall be
provided at the rate of one acre per 100 dwelling units. Such open space and/or
recreation facilities may be at more than one location, but each such area must
have at least 10,000 square feet to be counted toward this requirement.
            3.   All such areas must have a minimum width of at least 24 feet
and be accessible to residents of the development at no charge. All such areas
shall be occupied by recreational activities, grass and landscaping or woods.
Uses suggested for these areas are swimming pools, tennis courts, play areas,
passive recreation and the like. Uses not permitted in such areas are parking,
garbage areas, mechanical equipment or other similar uses. Land dedicated as
parkland or as drainageway and open space shall count toward this requirement.
         (g)   No building shall exceed 250 feet in length unless it is
designed for the elderly and has central facilities for dining and recreation.
         (h)   1.   Trash containers (dumpsters or compacters) of a number and
size conforming with the requirements of the jurisdiction shall be provided.
            2.   Each container shall be located so as not to interfere with
sight distance or the free movement of vehicles on streets or access drives and
so as to allow collector trucks adequate maneuvering space to empty the
containers without interference from utility lines or other structures and to
leave the property without excessive backing.
            3.   Concrete pads shall be located beneath and in the approach to
each trash container.
            4.   Note: developments with two or fewer principal buildings and a
width at all potential building locations of 120 feet or less are exempt from
the following requirements.
         (i)   1.   On the site plan, an isosceles triangle (yard space
triangle) shall be drawn from each building facade which, at its closest point,
lies within 100 feet of a lot line other than a street right-of-way line or
within 100 feet of another building in the development.
            2.   Facades shall be designated so that a minimum number, normally
four, results.
            3.   The base of the triangle shall be a line connecting the
extreme ends of the facade (ignoring one-story storage rooms and other one-
story protrusions of 100 square feet or less, exterior stairways and decks),
and its altitude shall be the length of the base line multiplied by a factor
related to the height of the building as shown below.
 
Table 9: Altitude Factor
Number of Stories Altitude Factor
4 or more         0.7
 
            2.   An isosceles triangle thus established may not overlap any
portion of another building, another triangle or another property, unless that
property is public parkland, dedicated drainageway and open space or street
right-of-way. See Figure 10 below.
Figure 10: Yard Space Triangles (No Scale)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/becb2f9c6e5d0add85cd879a02d64c74e71e8c8f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-787.png]
 
         (j)   Private drives shall be no closer than 15 feet to a dwelling.
         (k)   Play areas and sports facilities shall not be placed within 50
feet of adjacent land used or zoned for single-family residential purposes.
         (l)   All electric, communications, water and sewer utility lines
shall be installed underground.
         (m)   Arrangement of buildings in parallel rows shall be avoided.
   (C)   Non-residential districts.
      (1)   Dimensional requirements for non-residential districts. Dimensional
requirements for non-residential districts are shown in Table 10 below.
Table 10: Non-Residential District Dimensional Requirements
 LO GO- M GO- H NB LB GB HB SC CP LI HI PI
Table 10: Non-Residential District Dimensional Requirements
                               LO   GO-  GO-  NB   LB   GB  HB   SC    CP  LI   HI  PI
                                    M    H
Min. development size (ac.)    -    -    -    -    -    -   -    5     20  -    -   5
Min. development width (ft.)   -    -    -    -    -    -   -    250   -   -    -   -
Min. lot size (ft.2)a          9,00 20,0 20,0 9,00 15,0 12, 20,0 20,0  40, 20,0 20, 40,
                               0    00g  00g  0b   00   000 00   00    000 00   000 000
Min. lot width (ft.)           60   100  100  60   80   75  100  -     150 100  100 150
Min. street frontage (ft.)     60   75   75   60   80   75  100  100   100 75   75  100
Min. street setback (ft.)c
   Local and collector      20/  25/  25/  20/  25/  0j  30/  30/   30/ 25/  25/ 30/
                               4 5  5 0  5 0  4 5  5 0      5 5  5 5   55  5 0  50  55
   Minor thoroughfare       30/  30/  30/  30/  30/  0j  40/  40/   40/ 30/  30/ 40/
                               6 5  6 5  6 5  6 5  6 5      7 5  7 5   75  6 5  65  75
   Major thoroughfare       35/  35/  35/  35/  35/  0j  50/  50/   50/ 35/  35/ 50/
                               8 0  8 0  8 0  8 0  8 0      9 5  9 5   95  8 0  80  95
Min. interior setbacks (ft.)
   Adj. to non-residentia l 0/5d 10   10   0/5d 10   0/  10   20e,i 20  0/5d 0/  20
zoning                                                  5 d                     5 d
   Adj. to residential zonin20   25   25   20   25   10  25   35 i  50  25   50  35
                                    50/                 50/ 50/  50/   50/ 50/  50/ 50/
Max. building height (ft.)     50h  8 0f -f   50 h 50 h 80  8 0  8 0 f 80  8 0  80  80
                                                        f   f          f   f    f   f
Max. building coverage (% of   -    -    -    -    -    -   -    -     45  60   60  -
lot)
Notes to Table:
a Lots of record having less than minimum required area may be developed pursuant to §
151.078(A) of this chapter.
b Maximum district size of 3 acres (excluding any street right-of-way).
c Setbacks from right-of way line or property line/street centerline, whichever is
greater.
d Zero setback if no setback is provided. If setback is provided, it must be a minimum
of 5 feet.
e A through lot has 2 street setbacks, but no rear setback.
f Increase all setbacks by 1 foot for every foot in height between 50 and 80 feet. No
additional setback is required for buildings above 80 feet in height.
g Smaller lots are permitted for residential uses (refer to Table 9).
h No more than 3 full or partial stories entirely above grade.
i Development perimeter only.
j Minimum street setback refers to principal structure(s). Corner lots may be required
to provide for adequate site distance thereby increasing the minimum setback to a
distance not to exceed 10 feet. Accessory buildings shall be a minimum of 15 feet from
public right-of-way.
 
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 4-4; Ord. passed 11-17-2011(1); Ord. passed 11-17-
2011(2))
§ 151.099 ACCESSORY USES, BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   The following requirements are for customary accessory buildings and
structures. Other accessory buildings and structures containing specific
accessory uses listed in Table 4 of this chapter may have additional
development requirements found in §
151.210 of this chapter.
   (A)   Setback requirements.
      (1)   Front. No encroachment in the front setback is permitted.
      (2)   Side and rear.
         (a)   If the gross floor area (GFA) of the accessory structure or
building is less than or equal to 600 square feet, the structure or building
may be located five feet from a side or rear line.
         (b)    If the GFA is greater than 600 square feet, it must meet the
principal building(s) setback requirements.
Figure 11: Accessory Buildings and Structures (No Scale)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/becb2f9c6e5d0add85cd879a02d64c74e71e8c8f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-793.png]
 
   (B)    Location.
      (1)    Single-family development.
         (a)   All accessory structures and buildings must be located behind
the front building line of the principal structure, except for those tracts of
two or more acres where the owner can clearly demonstrate to the satisfaction
of the Planning Board that the proposed accessory structure will not be
intrusive, will be in keeping with the residential character of the surrounding
area and will not interfere with the vehicular or pedestrian traffic. Prior to
consideration of a request to locate an accessory structure or building in
front of the building line of the principal structure by the Planning Board,
notice of the request shall be made by first class mail to the owner(s) of the
parcel of land affected by the request and the owners of all parcels of land
adjoining and contiguous to that parcel of land as shown on the county tax
listing at least ten days, but no more than 25 days, prior to the Board’s
meeting date. In determining whether or not the proposed accessory structure or
building will be intrusive, will be in keeping with the residential character
of the surrounding area and will not interfere with vehicular or pedestrian
traffic, the Planning Board shall consider the following: the pattern of
development of the surrounding area, the location of principal and accessory
structures and buildings in the vicinity, the extent of existing or proposed
vegetation and/or topographical characteristics that may shield the proposed
structure or building from view of adjacent properties or public right(s)-of-
way, the proposed setback from property lines and/or public right(s)-of-way,
sight distances necessary to preserve unimpeded line of sight for vehicles and
pedestrians and other relevant information that may be presented.
         (b)   No permit shall be issued for the structure or building for 15
calendar days following the Planning Board’s authorization. Appeals of Planning
Board action shall be to the governing body and shall be made within 15 days
after Planning Board action. In the AG, RS-40 and RS-30 Zoning Districts,
existing accessory structures and buildings with any horizontal dimension
greater than 12 feet may be located in front of the front building line of the
principal structure.
      (2)   Multi-family development. Clubhouses, rental or administrative
offices, and mailbox kiosks or shelters may be located in front of the front
building line of the principal building, but shall follow the same street
setbacks as the principal building. All others accessory buildings and
structures shall be located behind the front building line of the principal
building(s).
      (3)   Non-residential zoning districts. Accessory structures and
buildings may be in front of the front building line of the principal
structure, but must follow the same street setback as the principal building.
      (4)   All districts. No accessory structure or building, except utility
substations, shall be erected in any easements.
   (C)   Height.
      (1)   The height of all accessory structures and buildings shall conform
to the zoning district in which it is located.
      (2)   Additional requirements for non-residential districts.
         (a)   Neighborhood Business District (NB).
            1.   No more than 3,000 square feet of gross floor area per use
shall be permitted on a lot.
            2.   Outside storage is prohibited.
            3.   Hours of operation shall be restricted to between 6:00 a.m. to
12:00 a.m.
            4.   Drive-thru sales and services are not permitted.
            5.   Exterior lighting is limited to indirect illumination and
safety lighting. All exterior lighting shall be hooded or shielded so that the
light source is not directly visible from adjacent streets or properties. No
exterior lighting shall be located higher than 15 feet above ground or
pavement.
            6.   All off-street parking shall be located to the rear of the
building.
            7.   Buildings must be reflective of the architectural styles,
exterior material and colors of nearby residences.
            8.   A maximum of two dwellings units are permitted above each
business.
         (b)   Limited Business (LB).
            1.   No more than 50,000 square feet of gross floor area per use
shall be permitted on a lot.
            2.   No more than 100,000 square feet of gross floor area per
development shall be permitted.
            3.   Outside storage is prohibited.
         (c)   General Business (GB). Any new principal structure or addition
to an existing principal structure proposed to be located less than 15 feet
from a public right-of-way shall have windows and/or doors on the street facing
facade equaling or exceeding ten percent of the square footage of the ground
floor facade. In addition, all new principal structures proposed to be located
less than 15 feet from a public right-of-way must be designed to include a
functional entrance oriented towards the public right-of-way and the property
shall be developed with sidewalk(s) that extend along the frontage of the
property and connect to the functional entrance(s). Furthermore, all permitted
uses within the wholesale trade category, except market showrooms, shall meet
the following standards.
            1.   A maximum of 10,000 square feet of gross floor area intended
for wholesale trade shall be permitted per establishment.
            2.   No outside storage of materials shall be permitted.
      (d)   Highway Business (HB). All permitted uses within the wholesale
trade category shall meet the following standards.
            1.   A maximum of 10,000 square feet of gross floor area intended
for wholesale trade shall be permitted per establishment.
            2.   No outside storage of materials shall be permitted.
         (e)   Corporate Park District (CP).
            1.   Loading areas shall not be located on the side of a building
facing a public street.
            2.   Accessory outside storage shall not cover an area exceeding
25% of the ground level gross floor area of the principal building(s), shall be
restricted to the area between the rear property line and the building(s) and
shall be fully screened from ground level view.
            3.   Outside assembly, manufacturing or processing shall not be
permitted.
         (f)   Light Industrial District (LI).
            1.   Loading areas shall not be located on the side of a building
facing a public street, unless such areas are screened from view by plant
materials, earthen berm, or combination thereof, with a minimum height of six
feet; or unless the street is classified as a local industrial or industrial
cul-de-sac street.
            2.   Outside storage or assembly shall be fully screened from
ground level view or public streets.
   (D)   Accessory use area. An non-residential accessory use shall not exceed
25% of any of the following measures: gross sales; building volume; floor area;
land area; or any other appropriate measure of usage.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 4-5; Ord. passed 11-17-2011(1); Ord. passed 9-20-
2012(1))
§ 151.100 SUPPLEMENTARY DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Structures permitted above height limits. Except as otherwise
prohibited by the airport overlay district, the height limitations of this
chapter shall not apply to public buildings, church spires, belfries, cupolas
and domes not intended for residential purposes, or to monuments, water towers,
observation towers, power transmission towers, silos, grain elevators,
chimneys, smokestacks, derricks, conveyors, flag poles, radio, television and
communication towers, masts, aerials and similar structures; provided, such
structures meet the required State Building Code.
   (B)   Prevailing street setback. Where 50% or more of the lots on the same
side of the block as the lot in question are developed with less than the
required street setbacks, the average setback of the two principal buildings
nearest that lot shall be observed as the required minimum setback.
   (C)   Encroachments into required setbacks. See Figure 12 below.
      (1)   Encroachments permitted in required setback. The following are
permitted in required setbacks provided there is no interference with any sight
area:
         (a)   Landscaping features, including but not limited to, ornamental
pools, planting boxes, sculpture, arbors, trellises and birdbaths;
         (b)   Pet shelters, at grade patios, play equipment or outdoor
furniture, ornamental entry columns and gates, flag poles, lamp posts, address
posts, HVAC equipment, mailboxes, outdoor fire places, public utility wires and
poles, pumps or wells, and fences or retaining walls subject to the
requirements of §§
151.145 through
151.155,
151.170 through
151.176,
151.190 through
151.195 and
151.210 through
151.212 of this chapter;
         (c)   Handicapped ramps; and
         (d)   Gatehouses/guardhouse and bus shelter.
      (2)   Structures permitted in required setbacks. The following structures
may encroach into any required setback:
         (a)   Cornices, steps, overhanging eaves and gutters, window sills,
bay windows or similar architectural features, chimneys and fireplaces, fire
escapes, fire balconies and fire towers may project not more than two and one-
half feet into any required setback, but in no case shall be closer than three
feet to any property line; and
         (b)   Porches may encroach into the required front and rear setbacks
as follows:
            1.   Front yard, covered or uncovered: five feet maximum
encroachment and 35 feet squared maximum area; and
            2.   Rear yard, uncovered only: 50% of setback and no maximum area.
      (3)   Permitted projections. Canopies, awnings and marquees or similar
covers attached to a building in the GB Districts may project into the street
right-of-way; provided that:
         (a)   No portion of the cover is located closer to the face of the
street curb than a horizontal distance of three feet;
         (b)   No portion of the cover or sign hanging below the cover is less
than nine feet above the grade; and
         ( c)   No cover requiring vertical support to the sidewalk is located
over a sidewalk with a total width of less than eight feet.
Figure 12: Structure Encroach ments into Required Setbacks (No Scale)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/becb2f9c6e5d0add85cd879a02d64c74e71e8c8f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-795.png]
 
      (4)    Canopy projections. Gas station and convenience store pump
canopies may be located in the street setback provided that no equipment or
part of a canopy is located closer than 15 feet to a street right-of-way line.
   (D)   Easement encroachments.
      (1)   Utility easements. In addition to the lines, boxes, structures and
substation buildings for which utility easements are intended, fences without
foundations may be located within utility easements. (Note: prior to fence
construction, the property owner should contact ULOCO.)
      (2)   Drainage maintenance and utility easements. Water-related
improvements, such as boat docks, may be placed or constructed within drainage
maintenance and utility easements.
      (3)   Water quality conservation easements. Water-related improvements,
such as boat docks and soil erosion and sedimentation control structures, may
be placed or constructed within water quality conservation easements.
   (E)   Setbacks from thoroughfares. Where proposed street alignments have
been established, building setbacks shall be measured from the future right-of-
way line or centerline of the proposed street.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 4-6)
§ 151.101 ZONE LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Principal buildings per lot. Every building hereafter erected or moved
shall be located on a zone lot; and in no case shall there be more than one
principal residential building and its accessory buildings on a zone lot,
except as provided below.
      (1)   Non-residential group development. Two or more principal non-
residential buildings are permitted on a zone lot pursuant to a site plan
approved by the Town Council; provided that, an access driveway is maintained
to each building in passable condition for service and emergency vehicle.
      (2)   Residential group development. Two or more principal buildings are
permitted in a multi-family development pursuant to a site plan approved by the
Town Council; provided that, an access driveway is maintained to each building
in passable condition for service and emergency vehicle.
   (B)   Street access requirements.
      (1)   Access to public street required. Every zone lot shall abut and
have direct access to a publicly maintained street or other public right-of-way
legally dedicated, except as provided in this section. No building or structure
shall be constructed, erected or placed on a zone lot that does not abut and
have direct access to a publicly maintained street or other public right-of-way
legally dedicated, except as provided in this section. The zone lot shall have
an open and passable access from the street, where the legally assigned address
is located, to the principal building or structure. For corner lots, the access
may be from the side street if the access is clearly visible from the street
where the address is assigned.
      (2)   Dead-end streets. For purposes of this section the terminus of a
dead-end street does not provide the required access to a publicly maintained
street unless that terminus is a circular turnaround or other turnaround
approved and constructed in conformance with §§
151.120 through
151.132 of this chapter.
      (3)   Single-family detached cluster development. Private streets may be
used to meet access requirements for lots in single-family detached cluster
developments and for single-family or twin home lots in planned unit
developments; provided, the development as a whole abuts and has direct access
to a publicly maintained street.
      (4)   Private lanes. Subdivision lots that abut and have access to
private lanes platted in accordance with §
151.132(C)(8) of this chapter.
      (5)   Townhouse developments. Individual parcels shall have right of
access through common areas containing private streets and/or private drives at
least 24 feet in width leading to a publicly-maintained street. Individual
parcels may have direct access to a publicly maintained street with Town
Council approval.
      (6)   Manufacturing dwelling park. Manufactured dwelling park lots or
spaces developed in accordance with section NO TAG.
      (7)   Unified development. Individual parcels, whether leased or sold, in
a unified development shall have shared rights of access along private streets
and/or along private drives at least 24 feet in width leading to a publicly-
maintained street. Maintenance of all private streets and private drives shall
be a mandatory responsibility, running with the land, exercised by a single
entity which shall be composed of one landowner, an owners’ association or all
owners acting collectively pursuant to a binding agreement.
      (8)   Exceptions. Special-purpose lots may provide access via easement in
accordance with §
151.100 of this chapter; and lots served by exclusive access easements in
accordance with §
151.132(B)(7) of this chapter.
      (9)   Access from public street prohibited. Access from an commercial,
office, industrial or institutional zoning district shall be prohibited through
an RS or RM District, unless it is the sole access.
      (10)   Access through districts permitted. Any use located in a zoning
district which is also a permitted use in a neighboring zoning district may
have access through the neighboring zoning district without additional
requirements.
   (C)   Unified development.
      (1)   Parking and landscaping. A unified development shall be treated as
a single zone lot for purposes of providing required off-street parking and
required planting yards, even if outparcels for sale are included within the
development.
         (a)   If the entire development meets the total off-street parking
requirement, it is not required that each parcel provide all the required
parking for the use thereon.
         (b)   If required planting yards are provided along the development
perimeter, including street frontages, and requirements for parking lot
planting are met, planting yards are not required along property lines and
lease lines between two parcels within the unified development.
      (2)   Plat and notice requirements. If the owner of a development elects
to organize it in an unified development, a plat shall be recorded displaying a
prominent note identifying it as such and explaining that the property must be
developed with common driveways and off-street parking and be subject to a
common signage plan and a common landscaping plan. The note shall further state
that should the property cease function as a unified development, the property
will then be in violation of this chapter and shall be retrofitted with
conventional parking and landscaping, even if doing so requires the removal of
previously installed improvements.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 4-7)
§ 151.102 LOT SIZE REDUCTION PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Single lot. No lot shall be reduced in size so that non-compliance
with respect to any frontage, building coverage, area, built-upon area, width,
setback, parking, planting yard or signage requirement of this chapter is
created, nor shall any existing non-conformity or violation be increased.
   (B)   Zone lot. Where two or more contiguous lots in one ownership
collectively form a zone lot, that zone lot shall not be reduced in size so
that non-compliance with respect to any frontage, building coverage, area,
built-upon area, width, setback, parking, planting yard or signage requirement
of this chapter is created, nor shall any existing non-conformity or violation
be increased.
   (C)   Exemption. These prohibitions shall not apply to county, municipal or
state acquisition of land.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 4-8)
§ 151.103 SPECIAL PURPOSE LOTS.
   Requirements of this subchapter with respect to street frontage, minimum lot
area and minimum lot dimensions shall not apply to lots for family or church
cemeteries, sewer lift stations, radio, television and communication towers and
similar utility uses. Such lots shall comply with the requirements below.
   (A)   Minimum size. The special-purpose lot shall be permitted only after
the governing body has determined that the proposed lot has sufficient
dimensions to accommodate the intended use and, where required by this chapter,
planting yards.
   (B)   Access easement. If the special-purpose lot does not have direct
access to a public street, an easement for ingress and egress with a minimum
width of ten feet shall be platted.
   (C)   Platting. The subdivision to create the lot shall be approved in
accordance with §§
151.120 through
151.132 of this chapter. The final plat shall label the lot as a “Special-
purpose lot for use as _______ .”
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 4-9)
§ 151.104 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   Applicability. A planned unit development is an area of land under
unified ownership or control to be developed and improved as a whole under a
unified development plan in accordance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Minimum size and uses allowed.
      (1)   Planned Unit Development, Residential (PD-R).
         (a)   Minimum size. No PD-R District shall be approved for a site of
less than 25 contiguous acres under unified ownership or control.
         (b)   Uses allowed. The uses allowed in a PD-R District are those
allowed in any residential district, the Neighborhood Business District (NB)
and the Limited Office (LO) District.
      (2)   Planned Unit Development, Mixed (PD-M).
         (a)   Minimum size. No PD-M District shall be approved for a site of
less than 25 contiguous acres under unified ownership or control.
         (b)   Uses allowed. The uses allowed in a PD-M District are those
allowed in any zoning district created by this chapter, except those uses which
must, under the terms of this chapter, be placed in a Heavy Industrial (HI) or
Agricultural (AG) District.
   (C)   Relationship to other applicable regulations. A planned unit
development shall be subject to all of the applicable standards, procedures and
regulations of this chapter, except as varied or changed by the express terms
of this section.
   (D)   Development standards.
      (1)   Dimensional requirements. The dimensional requirements of this
chapter are waived; except that:
         (a)   No structure of any type which is in excess of 35 feet in height
shall be erected within 50 feet of a single-family zoning district or single-
family portion of a planned unit development; and
         (b)   Lots planned for single-family detached dwelling use shall each
contain an area equal to or greater than the minimum area allowed in the RS-
5 Zoning District or shall have convenient access to nearby open space.
      (2)   Access.
         (a)   Areas between structures shall be covered by easements where
necessary to preserve access and to provide for maintenance and utility
service; and
         (b)   Primary vehicular access to commercial or industrial development
shall not be through intervening residential development.
      (3)   Commercial areas.
         (a)   Commercial areas within planned unit developments shall be
arranged to:
            1.   Separate pedestrian and vehicular traffic such that
pedestrians can safely walk between stores within a development and from
parking areas to stores; and
            2.   Promote pedestrian access from adjacent residential and office
areas into commercial areas.
         (b)   Commercial uses in a PD-R District shall be located on and shall
face an internal street of the development.
         (c)   No more than 10% of the total land area in a PD-R District may
be occupied by or used for commercial purposes.
         (d)   Commercial uses in a PD-R District are permitted if they are
designed and located to serve primarily the residents of the planned unit
development.
      (4)   Local street design. Local streets within a planned unit
development shall be located and designed so that they do not provide for
through access by traffic with origins and destinations outside of the
development.
      (5)   Boundary treatment.
         (a)   The scale and setbacks of planned unit development improvements
within 150 feet of the perimeter of the planned unit development shall be in
harmony with development on adjacent lands.
         (b)   No commercial or industrial use shall be permitted within 150
feet of the perimeter of a planned unit development unless the same or a
similar use exists adjacent to the perimeter at the time of the approval of the
planned unit development.
      (6)   Signs.
         (a)   The size, height, setback, location, design, illumination and
number of signs shall be specified in the unified development plan.
         (b)   All signs shall use a coordinated color, style and lettering
scheme.
      (7)   Parking. Off-street parking for each use in a planned unit
development shall be provided in accordance with the standards set forth in
this chapter for the same use or uses of similar intensity. The Town Council
may reduce the parking spaces if the unified development plan provides
convenient pedestrian and/or bicycle access among uses.
      (8)   Environmentally sensitive areas. The following shall be left
natural and undisturbed, except for road crossings, utilities and erosion-
control devices:
         (a)   Land within a floodway or floodway fringe; and
         (b)   Wetlands, steep slopes and other critical ecological areas.
      (9)   Open space and common recreational facilities.
         (a)   In a planned unit development district, open space is only that
land dedicated to the public or designated by the development plan for the use,
benefit and enjoyment of all residents of the planned unit development. Open
space may be common area owned by an owners’ association or parkland or
drainageway and open space dedicated to the public.
         (b)   To qualify as open space, land shall be useable for recreation
purposes or provide visual, aesthetic or environmental amenities and may not be
occupied by street rights-of-way, drives, parking areas or structures other
than recreational structures.
         (c)   Land within a Floodway or Floodway Fringe Zone may be used to
provide not more than 50% of the open space required in a planned unit
development.
         (d)   All property owners in the planned unit development shall have
access to the open space by means of a public or private street right-of-way or
all-weather walkway in an easement a minimum of 20 feet in width.
         (e)   The following amount of open space is required:
            1.   Two and one-half acres per 100 dwelling units; and
            2.   Ten percent of the gross land area for commercial and
industrial uses.
         (f)   Open space requirements may be reduced depending upon the nature
and extent of active recreation facilities provided.
         (g)   Open space shall be provided within each phase of the planned
unit development in sufficient amounts to serve the expected population of that
phase or the gross land area devoted to non-residential land uses.
      (10)   Utilities. Water, sewer, electrical, gas, television and telephone
utilities shall be installed in accordance with §
151.132(F) of this chapter.
   (E)   Procedures.
      (1)   Rezoning to planned unit development.
         (a)   Prior to submitting an application for rezoning to PD-R or PD-M,
the applicant shall submit a sketch plan prepared in accordance with §§
151.335 through
151.337 of this chapter that includes:
            1.   The general location and amount or land proposed for single-
family residential, multi-family residential, office, commercial, industrial,
open space/recreation and street use;
            2.   The number of dwelling units or gross floor area and the
acreage of each tract or area shown on the sketch plan;
            3.   The maximum height of buildings and structures in each such
tract or area;
            4.   The location and amount of land in flood hazard areas and any
other lands not suitable for development; and
            5.   Proposed watershed protection measures, including their
general location, if the development is within a watershed critical area or a
general watershed area.
         (b)   The Technical Review Committee and Planning Department shall
review the sketch plan for consistency with the requirements of §§
151.120 through
151.132 of this chapter and other applicable standards in this chapter. The
Planning Department, upon finding such consistency, shall approve the sketch
plan for submission in combination with a rezoning application. If the
Technical Review Committee or Planning Department finds deficiencies in the
sketch plan, reasons for such shall be stated in writing, along with any
requests for further information, and the applicant may revise and resubmit the
sketch plan.
         (c)   The rezoning application shall consist of the following
materials:
            1.   A completed rezoning application form prepared in accordance
with §§
151.065 through
151.081 of this chapter;
            2.   A Unified Development Plan (UDP) containing the following:
               a.   A sketch plan approved for submission in accordance with
division (E)(1)(c)2. above and showing proposed phase lines, if any;
               b.   Written documents which specify:
                  i.   The amount of land proposed to be used for each of the
following uses: single-family residential, multi-family residential,
commercial, industrial, open space/recreation or streets;
                  ii.   The amount of land in floodplain and any other lands
not suitable for development;
                  iii.   The overall gross density of the development and the
specific density of each tract or area shown on the sketch plat. Residential
density shall be shown in dwelling units/acre; non-residential intensity shall
be shown in gross floor area (GFA)/acre;
                  iv.   Traffic generation data which shows trips to and from
the development, within the development, and through the development on
proposed collector or thoroughfare-level streets; and
                  v.   An overall watershed protection concept plan if the
development lies within a watershed critical area or a general watershed area.
               c.   Common sign plan in accordance with §
151.152; and
               d.   Documents which specify proposed setbacks or other
regulations governing building placement on the land, height restrictions,
architectural controls and other information which the Planning Board and Town
Council may deem pertinent to plan approval. The applicant may use district
regulations provided by this chapter or may propose regulations unique to his
or her development. In no case, shall the Unified Development Plan leave any
area proposed for development unregulated.
         (d)   Once submitted as required herein, the petition for rezoning
shall proceed to conclusion in accordance with §§
151.065 through
151.081 of this chapter and other provisions of this chapter. Approval of the
rezoning establishes the maximum density and use of each tract or area shown on
the sketch plan. Any request for change in use or increase in density shall be
considered a change in zoning and shall be subject to all applicable
procedures. If the rezoning is approved, the sketch plan and related documents
specified in division (A)(3)(b) above shall be recorded in the County Register
of Deeds within 60 days of approval. After approval, no building or structure
may be erected or building permit issued, nor any lots sold, nor any plats
recorded unless such building, structure, permit or plat substantially conforms
to the UDP.
         (e)   Phased development of planned unit developments.
            1.   Planned unit developments may be developed in phases; provided
that, the following requirements are met.
               a.   All phases shall be shown with precise boundaries on the
unified development plan and shall be numbered in the expected order of
development.
               b.   All data required for the project as a whole shall be given
for each phase shown on the plan.
               c.   Development of the cumulative area of open space in all
recorded phases and the total number of dwelling units approved in those phases
shall comply with §
151.100 of this chapter.
               d.   A proportionate share of the project’s open space and
common facilities shall be included in each phase of development.
               e.   The phasing shall be consistent with the traffic
circulation, drainage and utilities plans for the entire planned unit
development.
            2.   If an approved unified development plan includes phasing
provisions, then:
               a.   No final plat for a phase of a planned unit development
shall be approved unless all open space and common facilities included in
previous phases are substantially complete; and
               b.   No final plat for a phase of a planned unit development
shall be approved if there is any uncorrected violation of the unified
development plan, a preliminary plat, a final plat or this subchapter in any
previous phase.
         (f)   After approval of a unified development plan, no final plat
shall be recorded until the owners’ association documents prepared in
accordance with §
151.128 of this chapter are recorded with the Register of Deeds.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 4-10; Ord. passed 11-13-2025)
§ 151.105 OVERLAY DISTRICT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Historic district.
      (1)   Designation procedure. Historic districts, as provided for in this
section, may be designated, amended or repealed through the following
procedure.
         (a)   An investigation and report describing the significance of the
buildings, structures, features, sites or surroundings included in any such
proposed district, and a description of the boundaries of such district must be
prepared by the Historic Preservation Commission and a recommendation thereon
made to the Planning Board and Town Council.
         (b)   The state’s Department of Cultural Resources, acting through the
state’s Preservation Officer or his or her designee, shall make an analysis of
and recommendations concerning such report and the description of proposed
boundaries. Failure of the Department of Cultural Resources to submit its
written analysis and recommendation to the governing body within 30 calendar
days after a written request for such analysis has been received shall relieve
the governing body of any responsibility for awaiting such analysis, and said
body may, at any time thereafter, take any necessary action to adopt or amend
this chapter with regard to historic districts.
         (c)   The governing body may also refer the report and proposed
boundaries to any local preservation commission or other interested body for
its recommendation prior to taking action.
         (d)   Changes in the boundaries of such district subsequent to its
initial establishment, or the creation of additional districts within the
jurisdiction, shall require the preparation of investigative studies by the
Historic Preservation Commission, and they shall be referred to the Department
of Cultural Resources for its review and comment according to the procedures of
set forth in this section. Changes in the boundaries of district or proposals
for additional districts shall also be submitted to the department of cultural
resources in accordance with the provisions of this section.
         (e)   The Planning Board shall review the recommendations and forward
its comments and recommendations to the governing body.
         (f)   The Planning Board shall process the historic district overlay
zoning as a zoning map amendment, in the same manner set forth in §§
151.065 through
151.081 of this chapter.
      (2)   Dimensional regulations and exceptions. Structures within a
historic district shall comply with the regulations of the underlying zoning
district, except as follows.
         (a)   Structures erected in a historic district may use the prevailing
setback of structures on the same side of the street in accordance with §
151.100(B) of this chapter.
         (b)   All applicable zoning regulations shall apply to property within
a historic district unless a variance is approved by the Board of Adjustment.
The said variance shall be granted only if it complies with the intent of the
architectural and historic guidelines of the historic district and if first
recommended by the Historic Preservation Commission.
         (c)   Where the Commission, in considering an application for a
certificate of appropriateness, shall find that the number of off-street
parking spaces and/or design standards for parking lots specified by this
chapter would render the site incompatible with the historic aspects of the
district, it may recommend to the Board of Adjustment a variance, in part, or
in whole, of the off-street parking requirements and/or design standards. The
Board of Adjustment may authorize as a variance a reduced standard concerning
off-street parking; provided:
            1.   The Board of Adjustment finds that the lesser standard will
not create problems due to increased on-street parking; and
            2.   The Board of Adjustment finds that the lesser standard will
not create a threat to the public safety.
      (3)   Certain changes not prohibited. Nothing in this section shall be
construed to prevent the following:
         (a)   The ordinary maintenance or repair of any exterior architectural
feature in a historic district which does not involve a change in design,
material or outer appearance thereof;
         (b)   The construction, reconstruction, alteration, restoration,
moving or demolition of any such feature which the Building Inspector or
similar official shall certify in writing to the commission is required to
protect the public safety because of unsafe or dangerous conditions; and
         (c)   The ordinary maintenance or repair of streets, sidewalks,
pavement markings, utility service lines, street signs, traffic signs and/or
replacement of street light fixtures in the event of equipment failure,
accidental damage or natural occurrences such as electrical storms tornadoes,
ice storms and the like.
      (4)   Certificate of appropriateness required.
         (a)   After the designation of a historic district, no exterior
portion of any building or other structure (including, but not limited to,
architectural style; general design; and general arrangement of the exterior of
the building or other structure; including the kind and texture of building
material, the size and scale of the building, the type and style of all
windows, doors, light fixtures, signs, masonry walls, fences, steps and
pavement and other appurtenant features, such as historic signs, colors,
significant landscape, archaeological and natural features of the area), nor
aboveground utility structure, nor any type of outdoor advertising sign shall
be erected, altered, restored, moved or demolished within such district until
after an application for a certificate of appropriateness as to exterior
features has been submitted and approved by the Historic Preservation
Commission.
         (b)   A certificate of appropriateness shall be issued by the Historic
Preservation Commission prior to the issuance of a building permit or other
permit granted for the purposes of constructing, altering, moving or
demolishing structures. The Commission may impose standards as may be set forth
elsewhere in this section or adopted by the Commission. Any building permit not
issued in conformity with this section shall be invalid.
         (c)   A certificate of appropriateness shall be required for all
activities specified in this section whether a building permit is otherwise
required or not.
         (d)   The discontinuance of work or the lack of progress toward
achieving compliance with the certificate of appropriateness for a period of
one year shall render the certificate null and void and application shall be
made for a new certificate. However, in the event the issuance of a certificate
is appealed, the one-year period shall not commence until a final decision is
reached regarding the matter.
         (e)   The Commission may, after adoption of architectural and historic
guidelines, allow the review and approval of a minor work by the Enforcement
Officer; provided, however, that, no application for a certificate of
appropriateness may be denied without formal action by the Historic
Preservation Commission.
         (f)   The county and all public utilities, except as provided under
this section, shall be required to obtain a certificate of appropriateness
prior to initiating in a historic district any changes in the character of
street paving, street widths, utility installations or removals, lighting,
street trees, walls, fences, sidewalks or exterior of buildings or structures
on property or streets in which they have a fee or other interest.
      (5)   Application procedures.
         (a)   Application for a certificate of appropriateness shall be made
to the Department of Planning and Development on forms provided. The
application shall be filed no later than 14 days prior to the next regularly
scheduled meeting of the Historic Preservation Commission. Each application
shall be accompanied by sketches, drawings, photographs, specifications,
descriptions and/or other information of sufficient detail to clearly show the
proposed move, exterior alterations, additions, changes and/or new
construction.
         (b)   The Department of Planning and Development staff shall make a
reasonable attempt to identify and notify the owners of surrounding property
likely to be affected by the application for a certificate of appropriateness.
The Planning and Development Department shall transmit the application for a
certificate of appropriateness, together with the supporting information and
material to the Historic Preservation Commission for consideration. The
Historic Preservation Commission shall act upon the application within 60 days
after the filing thereof, otherwise failure to act upon the application shall
be deemed to constitute approval and a certificate of appropriateness shall be
issued. Nothing herein shall prohibit an extension of time where mutual
agreement has been reached between the Commission and the applicant.
         (c)   Prior to issuance or denial of a certificate of appropriateness,
the Historic Preservation Commission shall give the applicant and other
property owners likely to be affected by the application an opportunity to be
heard. In cases where the Commission deems necessary, it may hold a public
hearing concerning the application, and seek the advice of the State Department
of Cultural Resources, or other expert advice.
         (d)   The Commission shall not refuse to issue a certificate of
appropriateness, except for the purpose of preventing the construction,
reconstruction, alteration, restoration or moving of buildings, structures,
appurtenant features or signs in the historic district which would be
incompatible with the architectural and historic guidelines.
         (e)   An appeal may be taken to the Board of Adjustment from the
Historic Preservation Commission’s action in granting or denying any
certificate. The appeal:
            1.   May be taken by any aggrieved party;
            2.   Shall be taken within 15 days after the decision of the
Historic Preservation Commission; and
            3.   Shall be in the nature of certiorari.
         (f)   Any appeal from the Board of Adjustment’s decision in any such
case shall be heard by the Superior Court of the country.
      (6)   Review criteria.
         (a)   In granting a certificate of appropriateness, the Historic
Preservation Commission shall take into account the historic or architectural
significance of the property under consideration and the exterior form and
appearance of any proposed additions or modifications to a structure.
         (b)   The Commission shall not consider interior arrangement.
         (c)   The provisions of this section shall not become effective for a
historic district until after the Historic Preservation Commission has adopted
detailed architectural and historic guidelines applicable to proposals within a
designated historic district. These criteria shall take into account the
historic, architectural and visual elements which are unique to the district
and shall be reviewed a minimum of every five years. At a minimum, the criteria
shall contain guidelines addressing the following factors:
            1.   Historic significance or quality. The quality or significance
in history, architecture, archeology or culture present in districts, sites,
structures, buildings or objects that possess integrity of location, design,
setting materials, workmanship, feeling and association and that are associated
with events that have made a significant contribution to the broad patterns of
local, state or national history; or that are associated with the lives of
persons significant in the past; or that embody the distinctive characteristics
of a type, period or method of construction, or that represent the work of a
master or that possess high artistic values, or that represent a significant
and distinguishable entity whose components may lack individual distinction; or
that have yielded, or may be likely to yield, information important in
prehistory or local, state or national history; and
            2.   Exterior form and appearance. Exterior features include the
architectural form and style, general design and general arrangement of a
building or other structure including the type and texture of the building
material and, the type pattern and style of all windows, doors, light fixtures,
signs and other appurtenant features. In considering exterior form and
appearance, the Historic Preservation Commission may take into account, but is
not limited to, the following elements to ensure that they are consistent with
the historic or visual character or characteristics of the district:
               a.   Height of the building or structure;
               b.   Setback and placement on lot of the building or structure,
including area coverage and orientation;
               c.   Exterior construction materials, including textures and
patterns and may include color;
               d.   Architectural detailing, such as lintels, cornices, brick
bond, foundation materials and decorative wooden features;
               e.   Roof shapes, forms and materials;
               f.   Proportions, shapes, positionings and locations, patterns
and sizes of any elements of fenestration;
               g.   General form and proportions of buildings and structures;
               h.   Appurtenant fixtures and other features such as lighting;
               i.   Structural condition and soundness;
               j.   Use of local or regional architectural traditions; and
               k.   Effect of trees and other landscape elements.
      (7)   Delay in demolition of landmarks and buildings.
         (a)   An application for a certificate of appropriateness authorizing
the demolition or destruction of a designated landmark or a building, structure
or site within the district may not be denied, except as provided in this
section. However, the effective date of such a certificate may be delayed for a
period of up to one year from the date of approval. The maximum period of delay
authorized by this section shall be reduced by the Historic Preservation
Commission where it finds that the owner would suffer extreme hardship or be
permanently deprived of all beneficial use of or return from such property by
virtue of the delay. During such period, the Historic Preservation Commission
shall negotiate with the owner and with any other parties in an effort to find
a means of preserving the building or site. If the Historic Preservation
Commission finds that a building or site within a district has no special
significance or value toward maintaining the character of the district, it
shall waive all or part of such period and authorize earlier demolition or
removal.
         (b)   If the Historic Preservation Commission has voted to recommend
designation of a property as a landmark or designation of an area as a
district, and final designation has not been made by the governing body, the
demolition or destruction of any building, site or structure located on the
property of the proposed landmark or in the proposed district may be delayed by
the Historic Preservation Commission for a period of up to one year or until
the governing body takes final action on the designation, whichever occurs
first.
         (c)   The governing body may enact an ordinance to prevent the
demolition by neglect of any designated landmark or any building or structure
within an established historic district. Such ordinance shall provide
appropriate safeguards to protect property owners from undue economic hardship.
         (d)   An application for a certificate of appropriateness authorizing
the demolition or destruction of a building, site or structure determined by
the state historic preservation officer as having statewide significance, as
defined in the criteria of the National Register of Historic Places may be
denied, except where the Historic Preservation Commission finds that the owner
would suffer extreme hardship or be permanently deprived of all beneficial use
or return by virtue of the denial.
   (B)   Scenic Corridor Overlay District.
      (1)   Overlay district based on corridor plan. Before a Scenic Corridor
Overlay District is established for any particular road, a corridor plan shall
be prepared. The plan shall, at a minimum, address the following issues:
         (a)   The arrangement of land uses along the corridor which will
create a visually pleasing impression;
         (b)   The unique qualities of the corridor, such as landmark
buildings, views and vistas and natural features, which merit special
consideration or protection;
         (c)   The value of the corridor as an entryway to the town which can
influence the perception of individuals or firms considering residence or
investment in the community;
         (d)   The location, size, shape, illumination, spacing and number of
signs; and
         (e)   Transportation, including vehicular access, dedication of right-
of-way, driveway limitations and traffic impact.
      (2)   Establishment of Scenic Corridor Overlay Zones. Scenic Corridor
Overlay Zones may be adopted, amended or repealed through the following
procedures.
         (a)   A corridor plan shall be prepared by the Planning Department
describing the conditions, boundaries and requirements for each proposed scenic
corridor overlay zone. The plan shall be forwarded, with the recommendation of
the Planning Board, to the governing body for approval.
         (b)   The boundaries and requirements of each corridor plan shall be
adopted as a separate and distinct Scenic Corridor Overlay Zoning District.
Adoption, amendment or repeal of the boundaries or requirements of the overlay
district shall be in conformance with the procedures and standards established
for conventional zoning districts.
   (C)   Scenic Overlay District.
      (1)   General requirements.
         (a)   Permitted uses. All uses permitted in the underlying zoning
districts are permitted, except billboards.
         (b)   Uses requiring screening. Uses which display one or more of the
following characteristics, may be permitted if they are fully screened from
view of motorists on the scenic corridor highway:
            1.   Uses with outside storage of building materials, scrap, pipe,
vehicles or equipment;
            2.   Uses with outside processing or assembly operations;
            3.   Uses with truck parking areas; and
            4.   Chain link or similar fencing in non-residential areas the
exception of enclosing livestock in agricultural zoning districts which shall
not require screening.
         (c)   Major residential subdivisions. Major residential subdivisions
shall be screened with a Type C planting yard.
         (d)   Building materials.
            1.   Non-residential. Materials such as brick, stone, wood or other
like and similar materials are required on all new construction and additions,
that are visible from a public right-of-way. Corrugated and/or sheet metal is
not permitted unless screened by planting yards. The Town Council may approve
other building materials that meet or exceed the standards established by this
chapter.
            2.   Accessory structures (non-residential and residential).
Prefabricated metal or fiberglass sheds are not to be visible from the scenic
corridor.
         (e)   Architectural design. Long, blank walls are discouraged. For
every 30 feet of building frontage, there shall be a change in front building
facade (i.e., relief, elevation, design, building material or other like
distinction). The Town Council may approve alternative building designs that
meet established by this chapter.
         (f)   Signage. All square feet in area with indirect lighting or
cutout letters. Signage shall be compatible in scale, size, material and
character with the building and surrounding structures.
         (g)   Service areas. Drive-through windows, gas station pump islands
and similar uses are required to be behind principal structures.
         (h)   Exemptions. Attached and detached single-family and two-family
dwellings are exempt from the building design elements of this section, except
with the voluntary consent of the owner.
      (2)   Districts established. The following scenic corridors are hereby
established as overlay districts.
         (a)   U.S. 220 North.
            1.   Limits of district. Except for areas otherwise mapped, the
scenic corridor extends for a distance of 1,500 feet on either side of the
centerline of U.S. 220 beginning at the Haw River and extending north along
U.S. 220 North to the Guilford/Rockingham County Line, excluding those portions
that lie within the town limits of Summerfield.
            2.   Applicable requirements. General requirements in divisions (C)
(1)(b) and (C)(1)(c) above shall apply to the U.S. 220 Scenic Corridor.
         (b)   NC 68.
            1.   Limits of district. The scenic corridor extends for a distance
of 900 feet on either side of the centerline of NC 68 from Rockingham County to
Oak Ridge town limits.
            2.   Applicable requirements. General requirements in divisions (C)
(1)(b), (C)(1)(c), (C)(1)(d), (C)(1)(e), (C)(1)(f), (C)(1)(g) and (C)(1)(h)
above shall apply to the NC 68 Scenic Corridor.
         (c)   U.S. Highway 158.
            1.   Limits of district. The scenic corridor extends for a distance
of 900 feet on either side of the centerline of U.S. 158 west from the eastern
town limits to the Forsyth County Line.
            2.   Applicable requirements.
               a.   General requirements in divisions (C)(1)(b), (C)(1)(c), (C)
(1)(d), (C)(1)(e), (C)(1)(f), (C)(1)(g) and (C)(1)(h) above shall apply to the
U.S. 158 Scenic Corridor.
               b.   See town core overlay for additional standards.
         (d)   NC 65.
            1.   Limits of district. The scenic corridor extends for a distance
of 900 feet on either side of the centerline of NC 65 from NC 68 to the Forsyth
County Line.
            2.    Applicable requirements. General requirements in divisions
(C)(1)(b), (C)(1)(c), (C)(1)(d), (C)(1)(e), (C)(1)(f), (C)(1)(g) and (C)(1)(h)
above shall apply to the NC 65 Scenic Corridor. See town core overlay for
additional standards.
Figure 13: Location and Spacing of Driveway Access (No Scale)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/becb2f9c6e5d0add85cd879a02d64c74e71e8c8f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-808.png]
 
   (D)    Airport Overlay District.
      (1)    Height limits. Pursuant to the “Airport Zoning Regulations of the
Piedmont Triad International Airport” adopted by the Greensboro-High Point-
Winston-Salem Airport Authority, no structure shall be erected which exceeds
the height limits set forth on a map titled “Approach and Clear Zone Plan and
Profiles”, dated 1974.
      (2)   Noise compatibility. Within the 65 Ldn Noise Contour around
Piedmont Triad International Airport, as delineated in the airport master plan,
no residential uses shall be permitted, except single-family homes on lots
which meet or exceed the requirements of the RS-40 Zone.
   (E)   Manufactured Housing Overlay District. Manufactured housing may be
permitted on single-family lots in any residential zone; provided, overlay
district zoning is approved by the jurisdiction and meeting the following
criteria for minimum development size:
      (1)   Ten existing contiguous lots covering at least 90,000 square feet
(2.07) acres, excluding public street right-of-way; or
      (2)   One hundred twenty thousand square feet (2.8 acres) of unsubdivided
land, excluding public street right-of-way.
(Ord. passed 5-18-2006(1); Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 4-11; Ord. passed 10-23-
2016(1); Ord. passed 11-13-2025)
**** SUBDIVISION PROCEDURES AND STANDARDS ****
§ 151.120 EXCLUSION DETERMINATION.
   If a proposed division of land meets one or more of the exclusions under the
definition of “subdivision” in §
151.013 of this chapter, the owner may submit to the Planning Department maps,
deeds or other materials in sufficient detail to permit a conclusive
determination by the Enforcement Officer.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 5-1)
§ 151.121 COORDINATION WITH OTHER PROCEDURES.
   To lessen the time required to attain all necessary approvals and to
facilitate the processing of applications, an applicant may start the
subdivision approval process simultaneously with applications for grading
permits or other applications for approvals required for the particular
project.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 5-2)
§ 151.122 SUBMISSION OF PLANS.
   Applications for subdivision approval, including group development approval,
shall be submitted to the Planning Department. Subdivision requiring the Town
Planning Board approval shall be presented to the Planning Department at least
seven days prior to the next scheduled meeting of the Planning Board.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 5-3)
§ 151.123 APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   (A)   Date of compliance. After the effective date of this chapter, no plat
for the subdivision of land within the town shall be filed, accepted for
recording, or recorded, nor shall the clerk of the superior court order the
recording of a plat until it has been submitted to and approved by the
jurisdiction. (See definition of “subdivision” in §
151.013 of this chapter for exclusions.)
   (B)   No subdivision without approval. No real property, including property
declared under the state’s Condominium Act, G.S. §§ 47C-1 et seq., lying within
the jurisdiction as now or hereafter fixed shall be subdivided, except in
conformance with all applicable provisions of this subchapter. Violation of
this section shall be a misdemeanor.
   (C)   Dedication and acceptance.
      (1)   Rights-of way and easements. The approval and recordation of a plat
constitutes dedication to and acceptance by the jurisdiction and the public of
the right-of-way of each public street, alley or utility or drainage easement
shown on such plat. The approval and recordation of a plat does not constitute
acceptance for maintenance responsibility within such right-of-way or easement.
Improvements within such rights-of-way or easements, such as utility lines,
street paving, drainage facilities or sidewalks may be accepted for maintenance
by the governing body or by the administrative officer authorized to inspect
and, where appropriate, accept the dedication of such improvements.
      (2)   Open space.
         (a)   Land designated as public open space on a plat shall be
considered to be offered for dedication until such offer is accepted by the
jurisdiction. The offer may be accepted by the jurisdiction through:
            1.   Express action by the governing body;
            2.   Express action by an administrative officer designated by the
governing body; or
            3.   Conveyance of fee simple marketable title (unencumbered
financially and environmentally) of the property to the jurisdiction at the
time of final plat recordation.
         (b)   Until such dedication has been accepted, land so offered may be
used for open space purposes by the owner or by the owners’ association. Land
so offered for dedication shall not be used for any purpose inconsistent with
the proposed public use.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 5-4)
§ 151.124 PRE-APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Conference. In the interest of efficiency and economy, every
subdivision applicant is strongly encouraged to schedule a pre-application
conference with the planning staff prior to the submission of a preliminary
plat.
   (B)   Sketch plan.
      (1)   Required for staff review. Prior to preliminary plat review, sketch
plans shall be reviewed by the Technical Review Committee for advisory comments
for any property that involves more than 50 lots, or utilizes off-site sewage
treatment or a community sewage treatment system unless waived by the county’s
Planning Director or designee due to scheduling conflicts.
      (2)   Preparation. The sketch plan shall be prepared in accordance with
§§
151.335 through
151.337 of this chapter and submitted to the Planning Department.
(Ord. passed 5-18-2006(1); Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 5-5; Ord. passed 11-13-
2025)
§ 151.125 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   Required.
      (1)   A preliminary plat shall be required for all subdivisions,
including group developments.
      (2)   Except that, when existing developments are converted from multi-
family residential or group developments to condominium unit ownership, the
developer shall submit a declaration of unit ownership, owners’ association
declaration and a final plat for approval in accordance with §
151.129 of this chapter.
   (B)   Preparation. The preliminary plat shall be prepared by a registered
land surveyor, registered landscape architect, registered architect or licensed
engineer, and shall be prepared in accordance with §§
151.335 through
151.337 of this chapter.
   (C)   Preliminary plat approvals.
      (1)   Approval required. Plats shall require review and approval by the
Planning Department. If the Planning Department finds deficiencies in the site
plan, reasons for such shall be stated in writing and the site plan may be
revised and resubmitted. Final approval or denial of a preliminary plat may be
appealed to the Board of Adjustment within 30 days after the action.
      (2)   Environmental Health Division. Once a subdivision plat, that does
not have public sewer available, receives preliminary plat approval; such plat
shall be approved by the Environmental Health Division of the county’s Health
Department before final plat approval. (Refer to §
151.132(F) of this chapter.) The following approval procedure shall be
utilized.
         (a)   A health drawing or plot plan for each lot shall be submitted
with every preliminary plat. Each health drawing or plot plan must contain the
information required by §§
151.335 through
151.337 of this chapter and be accompanied by fee payment and a signed
improvement permit application.
         (b)   If the lot is determined to be suitable for an on site sub-
surface sewage treatment and disposal system, a certificate pursuant to §
151.337(H) of this chapter will be entered on a copy of the approved
preliminary plat.
         (c)   If any lot is evaluated and rated unsuitable or the property
owner does not choose to have the lot(s) evaluated for an on site subsurface
sewage treatment and disposal system, the lot will be crosshatched and labeled
“NO IMPROVEMENT PERMIT HAS BEEN ISSUED FOR THIS LOT”. Information on denied
lots, or lots not evaluated, will be the only information shown on the
preliminary plat. The Environmental Health Manager will sign and date each
preliminary plat prior to its return to the land surveyor, landscape architect
or licensed engineer for final plat preparation.
   (D)   Submission. The Planning Department shall present major subdivisions
cases to the county’s Technical Review Committee at its next meeting. The
Technical Review Committee shall review the preliminary plat for compliance
with existing regulations in this chapter. This review shall be made by the
members of the Technical Review Committee prior to presentation to the town’s
Planning Board. Minor subdivision plats shall go directly to the town’s
Planning Board for approval.
   (E)   Action by Planning Board.
      (1)   Timing. The Planning Board shall take action within 30 days of
reviewing the preliminary plat.
      (2)   Approval. The decision of the Planning Board on a preliminary plat
is final unless appealed to the Town Council within 15 days after the date that
the Planning Board decision was made.
      (3)   Conditional approval. If the preliminary plat is granted
conditional approval, the applicant shall cause the plat to be revised, based
upon the conditions of the approval, and resubmitted. The Planning Department
shall review the revised plat and, if it meets all the approval conditions and
is otherwise substantially unaltered, shall signify on the plat the change from
conditional approval to approval. If the plat is not revised within 60 days to
meet the approval conditions or the applicant notifies the Planning Department
that he is unwilling to revise the plat, it shall be deemed denied.
      (4)   Denials. If the preliminary plat is denied the reasons shall be
stated in writing. A written notice shall be mailed to the applicant within
five days of denial, stating the reasons for denial and the right to appeal the
decision to the Town Council. The applicant may revise and resubmit a plat
which has been denied.
   (F)   Appeals. The decision of the Planning Board may be appealed to the
Town Council within 15 days of the Planning Board’s decision or if the Planning
Board takes no action on the preliminary plat as required in this section. The
Town Council may then approve, grant conditional approval or deny the plat in
accordance with the procedures found in §
151.125(E) of this chapter.
   (G)   Fees. All fees shall be due and payable when the preliminary plat is
submitted according to the schedule of fees.
(Ord. passed 2-16-2006(1); Ord. passed 5-18-2006(1); Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), §
5-6; Ord. passed 10-23-2016(1); Ord. passed 11-13-2025)
§ 151.126 STREET AND UTILITY CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Plans. Street and utility construction plans for all street, water,
sanitary sewer and storm sewer facilities shall be submitted to the
jurisdiction following preliminary plat approval. For each subdivision section,
the street and utility construction plans shall include all improvements lying
within or adjacent to that section as well as all water and sanitary sewer
lines lying outside that section and being required to serve that section.
   (B)   No construction without plan approval. None of the improvements listed
above shall be constructed until the street and utility construction plans for
such improvements have been reviewed and approved by the jurisdiction.
   (C)   Inspection. Work performed pursuant to approved street and utility
construction plans shall be inspected and approved by the jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 5-7)
§ 151.127 PERMANENT RUNOFF CONTROL STRUCTURES AND SOIL EROSION AND
SEDIMENTATION CONTROL DEVICES INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Soil erosion and sedimentation control devices. Any approved soil
erosion and sedimentation control device(s) may be installed prior to approval
of street and utility construction plans.
   (B)   Permanent runoff control structures.
      (1)   Coordination with streets and utilities. Any approved permanent
runoff control structure may be installed prior to approval of street and
utility construction plans. Such plans shall show the location of existing or
proposed runoff control structures relative to the proposed improvements to
avoid conflicts during street and utility construction.
      (2)   Design and construction. Runoff control structures shall be
designed and installed in accordance with the requirements of §§
151.225 through
151.237 of this chapter.
      (3)   Owners’ association required. When a permanent runoff control
structure serves more than one lot within a subdivision, an owners’ association
shall be required for the purposes of ownership and maintenance responsibility.
      (4)   Maintenance responsibility. The owners’ association shall be
responsible for maintaining the completed permanent runoff control structure as
directed by the governmental office having jurisdiction for watershed
protection and, if the owners’ association should be dissolved or cease to
exist, then, in that event, all the owners of record at the time of required
maintenance shall be jointly and severally liable for any and all costs
attendant thereto.
      (5)   Maintenance note required on final plat. When a subdivision
contains a permanent runoff control structure to which division (B)(3) above is
applicable, each final plat in the subdivision shall contain a prominent note
with the full text of division (B)(4) above.
      (6)   Plat recordation. The permanent runoff control structure(s) shall
be substantially completed and have full design volume available prior to any
plat recordation for the site. This may require the cleanout and disposal of
sediment from the pond.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 5-8)
§ 151.128 OWNERS’ ASSOCIATIONS.
   (A)   Establishment of owners’ association.
      (1)   Creation. An owners’ association shall be established to fulfill
the requirement of the state’s Condominium Act or to accept conveyance and
maintenance of all common areas and facilities within a development containing
common areas.
      (2)   Conveyance. Where developments have common areas or facilities
serving more than one dwelling unit, these areas shall be conveyed to the
owners’ association in which all owners of lots in the development shall be
members. All areas other than public street rights-of-way, other areas
dedicated to the jurisdiction and lots shall be shown and designated as common
areas. The fee-simple title of the common area shall be conveyed by the
subdivider or developer to the owners’ association.
      (3)   Subdivision or conveyance of common area. Common areas shall not be
subsequently subdivided or conveyed by the owners’ association, unless a
revised preliminary plat and a revised final plat showing such subdivision or
conveyance have been submitted and approved.
      (4)   Owners’ association not required. Developments involving only two
units attached by a party wall shall not be required to have common areas or an
owners’ association. Developments with only two units attached and not having
an owners’ association shall have an agreement between owners concerning
maintenance of party walls.
   (B)   Submission of owners’ association declaration. Prior to or
concurrently with the submission of the final plat for review and approval, the
subdivider shall submit a copy of the proposed bylaws of the owners’
association containing covenants and restraints governing the association,
plats and common areas. The restrictions shall include, (but not be limited
to), provisions for the following.
      (1)   Existence before any conveyance. The owners’ association
declaration shall be organized and in legal existence prior to the conveyance,
lease-option or other long-term transfer of control of any unit or lot in the
development.
      (2)   Membership. Membership in the owners’ association shall be
mandatory for each original purchaser and each successive purchaser of a lot or
unit. Provisions shall be made for the assimilation of owners in subsequent
sections of the development.
      (3)   Owners’ association declaration. The owners’ association
declaration shall contain the following items:
         (a)   Responsibilities of owners’ association. The owners’ association
declaration shall state that association is responsible for:
            1.   The payment of premiums for liability insurance and local
taxes;
            2.   Maintenance of recreational and/or other facilities located on
the common areas; and
            3.   Payment of assessments for public and private improvements
made to or for the benefit of the common areas.
         (b)   Default of owners’ association. Upon default by the owners’
association in the payment to the jurisdiction entitled thereto of any
assessments for public improvements or ad valorem taxes levied against the
common areas, which default shall continue for a period of six months, each
owner of a lot in the development shall become personally obligated to pay to
the jurisdiction a portion of the taxes or assessments in an amount determined
by dividing the total taxes and/or assessments due to the jurisdiction by the
total number of lots in the development. If the sum is not paid by the owner
within 30 days following receipt of notice of the amount due; the sum shall
become a continuing lien on the property of the owner, his or her heirs,
devisees, personal representatives and assigns. The taxing or assessing
jurisdiction may either bring an action at law against the owner personally
obligated to pay the same, or may elect to foreclose the lien against the
property of the owner.
         (c)   Powers of the association. The owners’ association is empowered
to levy assessments against the owners of lots or units within the development.
Such assessments shall be for the payment of expenditures made by the owners’
association for the items set forth in this section, and any assessments not
paid by the owner against whom such assessments are made shall constitute a
lien on the lot of the owner.
         (d)   Easements. Easements over the common areas for access, ingress
and egress from and to public streets and walkways and easements for enjoyment
of the common areas, and for parking, shall be granted to each lot owner.
         (e)   Maintenance and restoration. Provisions for common area
maintenance of and restoration in the event of destruction or damage shall be
established.
      (4)   Non-residential condominiums. If the condominium is a
nonresidential condominium, the declaration shall contain the following
provision: “Parking spaces shall be allocated among the individual lots or
units in such a manner that each unit is entitled to a sufficient number of
parking spaces to comply with this chapter for the use intended to be located
therein. The owners’ association shall maintain a register listing the total
number of parking spaces in the development and the number of parking spaces
allocated to each lot or unit. A copy of this register shall be available to
the Enforcement Officer at his request. The owners’ association shall not
reduce the number of parking spaces allocated to an individual lot or unit
without the express written consent of the owner thereof, and in no case shall
the number of parking spaces allocated to an individual unit be reduced to a
number below that required by this chapter.”
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 5-9)
§ 151.129 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Approval process.
      (1)   Submission. Upon approval of the preliminary plat and other
required plans the applicant shall be eligible to submit a final plat for
approval. Approval of the preliminary plat shall constitute tentative approval
of the final plat if the final plat is substantially unchanged from the
approved preliminary plat.
      (2)   Environmental Health Division review. Prior to final plat approval
a copy of the final plat shall be reviewed by the Environmental Health
Division. The final plat Mylar and nine prints shall be submitted to the
Planning Division. The Environmental Health Division shall determine that no
changes have occurred that affect lot suitability. Monuments must be set prior
to environmental health review of the final plat. If changes have occurred that
affect lot suitability, a new health drawing or plot plan and an improvement
permit application and fee for each affected lot shall be submitted and a new
evaluation shall occur. Improvements permits will be issued for approved lots
recorded on the final plat.
      (3)   Substantial change. Substantial changes from the preliminary plat
will require an additional review by the governing body to ensure compliance
with existing regulations.
   (B)   Preparation. The final plat shall be prepared by a registered land
surveyor in accordance with §§
151.335 through
151.337 of this chapter.
   (C)   Required improvements. No final plat shall be approved until all
required improvements have been installed and approved or appropriate surety is
provided as set forth in §
151.074 of this chapter.
   (D)   Assurance of completion of improvements. Where the improvements
required by this chapter have not been completed prior to the submission of the
plat for final approval, such improvements shall be assured by the owner’s
filing of an approved surety bond, certified check, irrevocable letter of
credit or equivalent in an amount to be determined by the jurisdiction and for
an approved period not to exceed two years.
   (E)   Certification of final plat. When the Enforcement Officer has approved
a final plat, a signed written statement to this effect shall be entered on the
face of the plat. The statement can be found in §§
151.335 through
151.337 of this chapter.
   (F)   Permits. Unless otherwise provided in this chapter, upon recordation
of the final plat, the subdivider shall be eligible to apply for building and
any other permits required by this chapter.
   (G)   Fees. A fee according to the schedule of fees shall be due and payable
when the final plat is submitted for approval.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 5-10; Ord. passed 10-23-2016(1))
§ 151.130 RECORDATION OF FINAL PLATS.
   After approval, a final plat must be recorded in the office of the Register
of Deeds within 60 days. No plat shall be regarded as finally approved until
such plat has been recorded. If the final plat of all or part of the area shown
on the approved preliminary plat is not recorded in the office of the Register
of Deeds within two years of approval of the preliminary plat, or if there is a
lapse of more than two years between the recordings of sections, the
preliminary plat must be resubmitted. Such resubmittal shall be in accordance
with the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 5-11)
§ 151.131 WAIVERS.
   (A)   Approval authority. The Planning Board or, on appeal, the governing
body may approve waivers to standards in this subchapter.
   (B)   Grounds for waivers. The plan approval agency may waive standards in
this subchapter under one of the following circumstances.
      (1)   Physical hardship. Where, because of the size of the tract to be
subdivided, its topography, the condition or nature of adjoining areas or the
existence of other unusual physical conditions, strict compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter would cause unusual and unnecessary hardship on
the subdivider.
      (2)   Equal or better performance. Where, in its opinion, a waiver will
result in equal or better performance in furtherance of the purposes of this
chapter.
      (3)   Unintentional error. Where through an unintentional error by the
applicant, his or her agent or the reviewing staff, there is a minor violation
of a standard in this subchapter, where such violation is not prejudicial to
the value or development potential of the subdivision or adjoining properties.
   (C)   Conditions. In granting waivers, the approval authority may require
such conditions as will secure, insofar as practicable, the purposes of the
standards or requirements waived.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 5-12)
§ 151.132 SUBDIVISION STANDARDS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Design. All proposed subdivisions, including group developments,
shall comply with this subchapter, shall be designed to promote beneficial
development of the community and shall bear a reasonable relationship to the
approved plans of the jurisdiction.
      (2)   Development name. In no case shall the name of a proposed
development duplicate or be phonetically similar to an existing development
name in the jurisdiction unless the proposed development lies adjacent or in
proximity to the existing development.
      (3)   Reasonable relationship. All required improvements easements, and
rights-of-way (other than required reservations) shall substantially benefit
the development or bear a reasonable connection to the need for public
facilities attributable to the new development. Whenever a tract to be
subdivided includes or adjoins any part of a thoroughfare or collector street
as designated by the thoroughfare plan or collector street plan, that part of
such proposed public right-of-way shall be dedication to public right-of-way
with the subdivision plat in the location and to the width recommended by the
plans or this subchapter.
      (4)   Off-site connections. When, in the opinion of the governing body,
it is necessary to connect streets and/or utilities off-site to adjoining
streets and/or utilities, said improvement may be required.
   (B)   Lot dimensions and standards. The size, shape and orientation of lots
shall be appropriate for the location of the proposed subdivision and for the
type of development contemplated and shall conform to the following.
      (1)   Conformance to other regulations. Every lot shall have sufficient
area, dimensions and street access to permit a principal building to be erected
thereon in compliance with all zoning and other requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   Minimum building area.
         (a)   Every lot shall have at least 40% of its total area, or 3,000
square feet, whichever is less, of contiguous buildable area of a shape
sufficient to hold a principal building.
         (b)   Said area shall lie at or be filled to an elevation at least one
foot above the 100-year flood elevation.
         (c)   Caution: §§
151.225 through
151.237,
151.250,
151.251,
151.265 through
151.276 and
151.290 through
151.303 of this chapter or federal wetlands regulations will prohibit or
restrict fill placement in certain locations.
      (3)   Lot depth to width ratio. No lot shall have a depth greater than
four times the width at the minimum building line.
      (4)   Side lot line configuration. Side lines of lots should be at or
near right angles or radial to street lines.
      (5)   Lot lines and drainage. Lot boundaries shall coincide with natural
and pre-existing human-made drainageways to the extent practicable to avoid
lots that can be built upon only by altering such drainageways.
      (6)   Lots on thoroughfares. Major subdivisions shall not be approved
that permit individual residential lots to access thoroughfares, as shown on
the adopted thoroughfare plan.
      (7)   Access requirements. All lots must have public street access and
frontage meeting the requirements set forth in §§
151.095 through
151.105 of this chapter. The following exceptions may be approved.
         (a)   Flag lots (see
Figure 14 below) approved by the Planning Board meeting the following
requirements.
            1.   A flag lot shall serve only one single-family dwelling and its
uninhabited accessory structures.
            2.   The maximum flagpole length shall be 300 feet.
            3.   The minimum flagpole width shall be 25 feet.
            4.   The maximum lot size in areas with public sewer shall be one
acre.
            5.   The maximum lot size without public sewer shall be three
acres. For lots located in the Watershed Critical Area Tier 2 without public
sewer, the minimum lot size shall be five acres and the maximum shall be ten
acres. Note: flagpole portion of lot is not used to calculate area, width,
depth, coverage and setbacks of the lot or to provide off-street parking.
            6.   Where public water is available, any building on the flag lot
must be within 500 feet of a hydrant. This distance shall be measured along the
street, then along the flagpole, then in a straight line to the building
location.
            7.   Where public sewer is available, occupied buildings on the
flag lot shall have a gravity service line, or the sewer pump requirement shall
be noted on the plat.
            8.    Use of a single driveway to serve a flag lot and an adjoining
lot is permitted and encouraged; the preferred location for the driveway is on
the flagpole portion of the flag lot, with the conventional lot granted an
access easement over the flagpole.
Figure 14: Flag Lot (No Scale)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/becb2f9c6e5d0add85cd879a02d64c74e71e8c8f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-892.png]
 
 
         (b)   Lots served by exclusive access easements (see Figure 15)
meeting the following criteria.
            1.   An exclusive access easement shall serve only one single-
family dwelling and its uninhabited accessory structures.
            2.   Lots to be served by an exclusive access easement shall not be
created in an area served by public water or sewer.
            3.   The minimum lot size shall be three acres.
            4.   The minimum easement width shall be 25 feet.
            5.   The minimum easement length shall be 300 feet.
            6.   The minimum separation between easement and any other platted
access or right-of-way shall be 150 feet.
            7.   The location of the easement must be recorded on a plat.
            8.   The exclusive access easement shall permit ingress, egress and
regress and necessary utilities required to serve the lot.
         (c)   Lots and units located in developments with owners’ associations
or group developments in which permanent access is guaranteed by means of
approved private street and/or drives;
         (d)   Lots located on an approved private lanes which are platted and
recorded pursuant to the provisions of this chapter and G.S. § 136-1-2.6; and
         (e)    Lots of record; provided, there is recorded access and the use
is limited to only one single-family dwelling and its uninhabitable accessory
structures.
Figure 15: Lot Served by Exclusive Access Easement (No Scale)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/becb2f9c6e5d0add85cd879a02d64c74e71e8c8f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-894.png]
 
   (C)    Streets.
      (1)    Conformance with thoroughfare and collector street plans.
         (a)   The location and design of streets shall be in conformance with
applicable thoroughfare and collector street plans.
         (b)   Where conditions warrant, right-of-way widths and pavement
widths in excess of the minimum street standards may be required.
      (2)   Conformance with adjoining street systems. The planned street
layout of a proposed subdivision shall be compatible with existing or proposed
streets and their classifications on adjoining or nearby tracts.
      (3)   Access to adjoining property. Where, in the opinion of the
governing body, it is desirable to provide for street access to adjoining
property, proposed streets shall be extended to the boundary of such property.
      (4)   Reserve strips. Reserve strips adjoining street rights-of-way for
the purposes of preventing access to adjacent property shall not be permitted
under any condition.
      (5)   Street classification.
         (a)   The final determination of the classification of streets in a
proposed subdivision shall be made by the jurisdiction.
         (b)   Street classifications are defined in §
151.013 of this chapter.
      (6)   Public street design criteria.
         (a)   The minimum street design standards for the street
classifications are attached herewith as Tables 11 and 12 below. Right-of-way
dedication and paving of streets in and adjacent to the subdivision shall be in
conformance with the right-of-way and pavement width requirements of Tables 11
and 12 below; and shall be designed in accordance with the jurisdiction’s
street design manual, or the state’s Department of Transportation (NCDOT)
“Subdivision Roads: Minimum Construction Standards”, whichever is applicable.
Table 11: Minimum Public Street Design Standards - Urban Area
               Minimum Right- Minimum Pavement Stopping Sight Centerline
Classification of Way (ft.)a  Width (ft.)a,b   Distance (ft.) Radius (min.) 4%
                                                              Super (ft.)
Table 11: Minimum Public Street Design Standards - Urban Area
                    Minimum Right- Minimum        Stopping Sight Centerline
Classification      of Way (ft.)a  Pavement Width Distance (ft.) Radius (min.)
                                   (ft.)a,b                      4% Super (ft.)
Major thoroughfare  90 - 100       64 - 68        650            1530
Minor thoroughfare
   Five lane     80             60             550            1240
   Four lane     68             48             475            955
Collector           60             40             400            765
Subcollector        56             36             250            440
Local residential
   With ribbonc  50             22             200            300
   With curb and 50             30             200            300
gutter
Residential cul-de-
sac
   With ribbonc  50             22             200            300
   With curb and 50             30d            200            300
gutter
Local industrial    60             40             325            575
Industrial cul-de-  60             40             325            575
sac
Notes to Table:
Recommended design standards - exceptions may be approved due to special
physical constraints on an individual basis by designated local staff.
a Unless additional width required under §
151.132(A) of this chapter.
b Dimension in this column are form face of curb to face of curb, except ribbon
pavement.
c Watershed critical area (WCA) only.
d With 20 dwelling units or less, 26 feet.
 
Table 12: Minimum Public Street Design Standards - Rural Area
                 Minimum Right- Minimum Pavement Stopping Sight Centerline
Classification   of-Way (ft.)a  Width (ft.)a,b   Distance (ft.) Radius (min.)
                                                                4% Super (ft.)
Collector/
subcollector     50             20               200            230
(NCDOT)
Local/cul-de-sac 50             20               150            150
(NCDOT)
 
         (b)   No single entrance to a new residential subdivision shall serve
more than 50 lots or 500 trips per day.
      (7)   Private street design criteria.
         (a)   Where permitted. Private streets shall be permitted in
developments with owners’ associations and group developments.
         (b)   Minimum design and construction. The minimum street design
standards are found in Table 13 below. The pavement design for all private
streets will be equivalent to the minimum design for local residential streets
of the jurisdiction or NCDOT whichever is applicable, unless the developer
supplies an alternate pavement design supported by an engineering study. The
developer must furnish an engineer’s seal and certification that the private
streets have been tested and certified for the subgrade, base and asphalt. All
private streets will have a standard, 30-inch curb and gutter section, unless
the street is located in the watershed critical area (WCA). Streets located in
the WCA may be 22 feet of asphalt construction with shoulders and a ditch
section. Common area may need to be widened to keep the ditch section within
the common area. All cul-de-sacs will have a minimum 45-foot pavement radius.
         (c)   Owners’ association required. A owners’ association is required
to own and maintain all private streets allowed under this chapter. All private
streets will be indicated as such on the plat.
         (d)   Private through streets. No through street in a residential area
connecting two public streets can be designated as a private street, unless
approved by the governing body.
         (e)   Connections to public streets. All private streets, connecting
with public streets, require an approved driveway application from the
jurisdiction or NCDOT whichever is applicable. Where street returns are
permitted, the developer shall construct a concrete band running parallel with
the public street. The width of this band shall commence at the gutter line and
extend to the right-of-way of the public street.
         (f)            (f)   Sidewalks. In the event sidewalks are
constructed, the minimum width shall be four feet.
 
Table 13: Minimum Private Street Design Standards - Urban Area
Minimum Common Area   Minimum Pavement Width Stopping Sight Centerline Radius
Free of Obstructions  (face to face) (ft.)   Distance (ft.) Minimum (ft.)
(ft.)
34a                   24b                    150            215
Notes to Table:
a Common area may need to be wider when using ribbon pavement in the
watershed critical area.
b Ribbon pavement width in watershed critical area is 22 feet.
 
 
Table 14: Minimum Private Street Design Standards for Manufactured Dwelling
and Recreational Vehicle Parks
Minimum Common Area   Minimum Pavement Width Stopping Sight Centerline Radius
Free of Obstructions  (ft.)                  Distance (ft.) Minimum (ft.)
(ft.)
30                    20                     150            150
 
      (8)   Private lane design criteria.
         (a)   Where permitted. Private lanes shall be permitted only in minor
subdivisions.
         (b)   Construction standards.
            1.   Roadway width and construction design. Minimum street design
standards are found in Table 14 above. The base course shall comply with NCDOT
standards. A pavement surface is not required. The area outside the roadway
shall be treated with stabilizing vegetation or other materials approved by the
Soils Division.
            2.   Block length. Block length shall not be longer than 600 feet.
            3.   Turn around. A cul-de-sac or T-type turnaround shall be
provided in accordance with NCDOT standards.
            4.   Intersection. Roads shall be designed to intersect as nearly
as possible at right angles. Intersections at angles less than 60 degrees are
not permitted. A private lane may not intersect with another private lane.
            5.   Street off-sets. The off-set alignment of the centerline of
two non-intersecting streets shall be a minimum of 125 feet.
            6.   Disclosure statement. A disclosure statement in accordance
with G.S. § 136-102.6 shall be approved by the County Attorney, recorded
simultaneously with the plat, and referenced on the final plat. The disclosure
statement must contain the provision(s) for construction and/or maintenance of
the private lane.
            7.   Certificate of inspection and surety. A certificate of
inspection signed and sealed by a licensed professional engineer shall be filed
with the Planning Department prior to recordation of the final plat. A surety
may be posted for a private lane in which case the certificate will be required
after road construction is complete. This certificate shall at a minimum state
that the private road has been constructed to meet the minimum design standards
set forth herein.
 
Table 15: Minimum Private Lane Design Standards - Rural Area
Minimum Private Right- Minimum Width of Stopping Distance  Centerline Radius
of-Way Width (ft.)     Roadway (ft.)    (ft.)              Minimum (ft.)
50                     18               150                150
 
      (9)   Intersecting street angle.
         (a)   All streets shall intersect at or as near to 90 degrees as
possible within topographic limits.
         (b)   All streets crossing natural areas, wetlands or stream buffers
must cross at or as near to 90 degrees as possible within topographic limits.
      (10)   Cul-de-sac maximum length. The maximum distance from an
intersecting through street to the end of a cul-de-sac shall be 800 feet;
except that, a distance up to 1,600 feet may be approved in the watershed
critical area.
      (11)   Minimum street offset. Where streets are offset, the centerlines
of shall be offset no less than 125 feet.
      (12)   Curb and gutter. Curb and gutter shall be required in all urban
subdivisions, except in the watershed critical area as defined in §§ 
151.225 through
151.237,
151.250,
151.251,
151.265 through
151.278 and
151.290 through
151.303 of this chapter unless the continuity of previous street work
necessitates curb and gutter. Curb and gutter shall be constructed in
conformance with the design criteria of the jurisdiction. Curb and gutter in
rural subdivisions is not required unless public water and/or sewer is
available.
      (13)   Temporary turnarounds. Streets stubbed to adjoining property or
phase lines may be required to have a temporary turnaround at the end of the
street which will be sufficient to permit sanitation vehicles to turn around.
      (14)   Grades at intersections. The grade on stop streets approaching an
intersection shall not exceed 5% for a distance of not less than 100 feet from
the centerline of the intersection.
      (15)   Sight distance easements. Triangular sight distance easements
shall be shown in dashed lines at all street intersections and so noted on the
subdivision plat. These easements will remain free of all structures, trees,
shrubbery, driveways and signs, except utility poles, fire hydrants and
traffic-control signs. The location and extent of sight distance easements will
be determined by the jurisdiction and the NCDOT.
      (16)   Street names. Streets which are obviously in alignment with
existing streets shall generally bear the name of the existing street. Street
names shall not duplicate or closely approximate phonetically the names of
existing streets in the county. Street suffixes and addresses shall conform to
the standards set forth in §§ 
151.315 through
151.322 of this chapter.
      (17)   Street signs.
         (a)   Public street intersection. At each intersection of a named
public street with another named public street, the developer shall pay a fee
to the jurisdiction for the installation of each street sign required.
         (b)   Public to private street intersections. At each intersection of
a named private street, drive or lane with a public street, the jurisdiction
shall erect a street name sign. The developer shall pay a fee to the
jurisdiction for each such sign required.
         (c)   Private street intersections. The developer shall be required to
erect and maintain reflectorized signs at all intersections between private
streets, drives or lanes. Private street signs shall be approved by the
jurisdiction as part of a master or common sign plan.
         (d)   Traffic-control signs. The developer shall be required to
provide traffic-control signs in locations designated by the jurisdiction.
         (e)   Maintenance. Maintenance of signs on private streets, drives or
lanes shall be the responsibility of the owner or owners’ association, as
appropriate.
   (D)   Block length. Blocks shall not exceed a perimeter length of 6,000
feet; except that, a perimeter length of up to 12,000 feet may be approved in
the watershed critical area. Perimeter length is the shortest perimeter
measurement along the abutting street right-of-way lines.
   (E)   Sidewalks. Except along controlled access facilities, sidewalks shall
be required on all thoroughfare streets, and at other locations where a
pedestrian traffic generator requires separation of pedestrian and vehicular
traffic on collector, subcollector and local residential streets. Where
sidewalks are installed, they shall have a minimum width of five feet and be
constructed on one side of the right-of-way as determined by the governing
body.
   (F)   Utilities.
      (1)   Water. Public water construction requirements: Water lines,
connections and equipment shall be constructed in accordance with state and
local regulations.
         (a)   Water system connections:
            1.   Minor subdivisions. All new minor subdivisions will be exempt
from mandatory connection to the public water system.
            2.   Major subdivisions. Connection of each lot to a public water
system shall be required if the proposed major subdivision meets the criteria
in the schedule below (Table 16 below). Distance shall be measured from the
property boundary nearest the water system line.
            3.   Determination of number of lots. If a subdivision is planned
in phases, all lots planned for all phases shall be included in the total
number of lots used in the criteria in Table 16 below.
Table 16: Major Subdivision Criteria for Required Hook Up to Public Water
System
Distance from nearest property Subdivision Range Houses or Connection Required
line to water line (ft.)       Lots
Table 16: Major Subdivision Criteria for Required Hook Up to Public Water
System
Distance from nearest property Subdivision Range Houses or Connection Required
line to water line (ft.)       Lots
< 500                          5 - 10                      Yes
< 1,000                        11 - 25                     Yes
< 2,000                        26 - 50                     Yes
< 3,000                        51 - 75                     Yes
< 3,500                        76 - 100                    Yes
< 4,000                        > 100                       Yes
 
      (2)   Sewer. Until public sewer is available, lots shall be evaluated in
accordance with laws and rules of sanitary sewage collection, treatment and
disposal in G.S. Ch. 130A. Approval of the Environmental Health Division shall
be obtained after preliminary plat approval. The final plat shall show lots
denied or not evaluated crosshatched and labeled “NO IMPROVEMENT PERMIT HAS
BEEN ISSUED FOR THIS LOT”.
      (3)   Underground utilities. Electrical, television cable and telephone
utility lines installed within major subdivisions shall be underground unless
the governing body determines underground installation is inappropriate.
      (4)   Utility easements.
         (a)   Major subdivisions. To provide for electric, telephone, gas and
community antenna television services conduits, and sewer or water lines within
the subdivision appropriate utility easements not to exceed 30 feet in width
shall be provided. The location of such easements shall be reviewed and
approved by the jurisdiction, with advice from utility providers, before final
plat approval.
         (b)   Minor subdivisions. Lots fronting on public streets with access
to existing utilities are not required to have utility easements. All other
lots shall show a 20-foot utility easement to the front, side or rear of each
lot unless easement releases are obtained from all utility companies, in which
case no utility easement will be required.
         (c)   No buildings or improvements. Utility easements shall be kept
free and clear of any buildings or other improvements that would interfere with
the proper maintenance or replacement of utilities. The jurisdiction shall not
be liable for damages to any improvement located within the utility easement
area caused by maintenance or replacement of utilities located therein.
   (G)   Drainage. The design of storm drainage systems and plans, including
calculations, shall clearly indicate the easements and dedicated areas required
for the construction and maintenance of the drainage system.
      (1)   General drainage requirement.
         (a)   All watercourses which carry a flow of five cubic feet per
second (cfs) or more during a ten-year storm, as calculated in accordance with
the jurisdiction’s storm sewer design manual, shall be treated in one or more
of the three ways listed in §
151.132(B), (C) and (D) of this chapter. Except where division (G)(1)(b) below
leaves the determination to the developer, the governing body shall determine
the treatments to be used, based upon the pipe size necessary to handle
drainage and adopted open space plan. Open drainage channel requirements shall
be based upon a 100-year storm, and enclosed systems shall be based upon a ten-
year storm. If the channel is a perennial stream in a water supply watershed,
or is identified on the open space plan map or requires a pipe of 66-inch
diameter or greater, the determination of drainage treatment shall be made by
the governing body. In making this determination, the Technical Review
Committee shall consider the following factors:
            1.   The type of development;
            2.   The treatment employed by nearby developments;
            3.   The probability of the creation of a lengthy greenway or
drainageway and open space;
            4.   The probability of the creation of future maintenance
problems;
            5.   The probability of erosion or flooding problems;
            6.   The adopted the open space plan; and
            7.   Stream buffer requirements and channelization limitations for
WCA and GWA areas, as described in §§
151.225 through
151.237,
151.250,
151.251,
151.265 through
151.278 and
151.290 through
151.303 of this chapter.
         (b)   If the channel is not a perennial stream within a WCA or GWA of
a designated water supply watershed, or is not identified on the open space
plan and requires less than a 66-inch diameter pipe, the determination of
drainage treatment shall be made by the property owner in a manner consistent
with this section.
      (2)   Enclosed subsurface drains.
         (a)   This section applies to enclosed subsurface drains. Profiles and
enclosure standards shall be in accordance with the county’s “Storm Sewer
Design Manual”.
         (b)   A utility easement designed to accommodate storm water shall be
placed on a recorded plat when determined necessary by the jurisdiction. The
required utility easement shall be centered on the enclosure when practical,
but in no case shall the outside wall of the enclosure be located less than
five feet from the edge of the utility easement. The utility easement shall be
of a width determined necessary for maintenance purposes by the jurisdiction
based upon enclosure depth, topography and location of existing and proposed
improvements, but no less than 15 feet.
         (c)   The utility easement shall be kept free and clear of any
buildings or other improvements which would interfere with the proper
maintenance of the underground enclosures. The jurisdiction shall not be liable
for damages to any improvement located within the utility easement area caused
by maintenance of utilities located therein. Furthermore, utility easements may
be used for future installations of any underground utility; provided that:
            1.   Any underground utility to be installed by any utility
provider other than the jurisdiction shall be subject to approval by the
appropriate department;
            2.   Any government agency or private company installing additional
underground lines after development has been completed by the owner of the
property shall be responsible for the replacement of all fencing, pavement and
grassed area disturbed by such installation; and
            3.   The jurisdiction shall not be responsible for damages caused
by installation of additional lines by any private utility company.
      (3)   Open channel in dedicated drainageway and open space area.
         (a)   This section applies to an open channel in a dedicated
drainageway and open space area. The drainageway and open space area shall be
dedicated by a recorded plat and shall be labeled “Dedicated to Town of
Stokesdale and the Public for Drainageway and Open Space”. If a portion of the
drainageway and open space lies within a proposed thoroughfare shown on the
thoroughfare plan, it shall be labeled “Dedicated to Town of Stokesdale and the
Public for Drainageway and Open Space or Thoroughfare”.
         (b)   The dedicated drainageway and open space area along any stream
that would require a 66-inch or larger diameter pipe shall include the land
between the natural 100-year flood contour lines as determined by the
jurisdiction. (Caution: §§
151.225 through
151.237,
151.250,
151.251,
151.265 through
151.278 and
151.290 through
151.303 of this chapter or federal wetland regulations will prohibit or
restrict fill placement in certain locations.)
         (c)   In case of severe topography, additional width may be required
to assure reasonable ease of maintenance.
         (d)   The dedicated drainageway and open space area shall abut public
street right-of-way on at least 30% of its perimeter, except when the governing
body determines that adequate access is otherwise provided. The minimum length
of street frontage at each location where drainageway and open space abuts
public street right-of-way shall be 60 feet. The maximum distance, measured by
straight lines on either side of the drainageway and open space, between points
at which the drainageway and open space abuts street right-of-way shall be
1,000 feet.
         (e)   The centerline of the drainage channel that would require a 66-
inch or larger diameter pipe shall be located no less than 50 feet from any
street or property line; provided that, the dimensions of the drainageway and
open space area conform to all other requirements of this section. The minimum
distance from centerline shall be 20 feet along smaller drainageways.
         (f)   Drainageway and open space shall be left in its natural
condition or graded to a section approved by the jurisdiction which will allow
economical and efficient maintenance and shall be stabilized with permanent
vegetative cover.
         (g)   Lots abutting public open space may be reduced in size in
accordance with the provisions in §
151.098(D) of this chapter. If lot sizes have been reduced with the provisions
of this chapter, the following note shall appear of the plat: “The required
area of Lots _______ through _______ has been reduced in accordance with §
151.098(D) of this chapter. All other dimensional requirements of this chapter
shall apply.”
      (4)   Open channel on private property within drainage maintenance and
utility easement.
         (a)   This section applies to open channels on private property within
a drainage maintenance and utility easement. This method shall not be utilized
in any subdivision intended for single-family detached dwellings unless the
governing body, determines that an open channel would not become a missing
segment in a system of storm water piping and that the open channel is well
removed from all anticipated building locations.
         (b)   1.   The drainage maintenance and utility easement shall include
the required drainage channel and the land between the channel and the natural
100-year flood contour as determined by FEMA or by calculations approved by the
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers; or, in some cases, it may be reduced by modifying
the drainage maintenance and utility easement topography to a typical required
drainage channel section as provided for in this section. However, the minimum
total width of a drainage maintenance and utility easement shall be no less
than specified below.
 
Table 17: Required Distance from Streamline Centerline
Cubic Feet per Second in 100-Year Storm Required Distance from Stream
                                        Centerline
5 - 17 cfs                              15 ft.
17 - 70 cfs                             30 ft.
70 or more cfs                          50 ft., plus 1/2 channel width
Notes to Table:
cfs = cubic feet per second
 
            2.   The drainage maintenance and utility easement width shall be
centered on the typical required drainage channel section, unless the governing
body approves other drainage maintenance and utility easement alignments
because of topographic conditions.
         (c)   In case of severe topography, additional width may be required
to assure reasonable ease of maintenance.
         (d)   The drainage maintenance and utility easement topography may be
modified if permitted under §§
151.265 through
151.278 of this chapter. In such cases, the approved typical required drainage
channel section shall include the necessary channel to accommodate a 100-year
flood. The area outside of the required drainage channel may be filled; but any
resulting slope shall be no steeper than two to one, unless the slope is
protected by masonry paving, rip-rap or other material which meet the
jurisdictions specifications.
         (e)   If the governing body determines suitable access to the drainage
maintenance and utility easement is not otherwise provided, access shall be
guaranteed by a suitably located access easement which shall be no less than 20
feet in width.
         (f)   1.   It shall be the responsibility of the owner to maintain
provide all streams located on his, her or their property.
            2.   If the governing body determines that it is in the public
interest to alter the typical required channel section and/or profile of the
stream to improve flow, the jurisdiction may enter the property within the
indicated access or drainage maintenance and utility easement and carry out the
necessary work without liability for any damage to the property, or
improvements thereon, located within the easement.
         (g)   Drainage maintenance and utility easements may be utilized for
any underground utility; provided that:
            1.   Underground utility lines to be installed by any utility
provider other than the jurisdiction shall be subject to approval by the
Enforcement Officer;
            2.   The government agency or private company installing
underground lines after development has been completed by the owner of the
property shall be responsible for the replacement of all fencing, pavement and
grassed areas disturbed by such installation;
            3.   The jurisdiction shall not be responsible for damage caused by
the installation of additional lines by any private utility company; and
            4.   The jurisdiction shall not be liable for damages to any
improvements located within the drainage maintenance and utility easement area
caused by maintenance of utilities located therein.
         (h)   No buildings or structures except for water related improvements
shall be placed or constructed within the access or drainage maintenance and
utility easement. All drives, parking areas or other improvements shall be
constructed no closer than two feet horizontally from the top of any back slope
along any open watercourse.
      (5)   Flood standards.
         (a)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
         (b)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and
facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and
constructed to minimize flood damage.
         (c)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided
to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
         (d)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision
proposals whenever the 100-year storm flow is 500 cubic feet per second or
greater.
   (H)   Placement of monuments. The “Standards of Practice for Land Surveying
in North Carolina”, as adopted by the state’s Board of Registration for
Professional Engineers and Land Surveyors, shall apply when installing
monuments.
(Ord. passed 5-18-2006(1); Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 5-13; Ord. passed 12-13-
2018(1))
**** SIGNS ****
§ 151.145 GENERAL.
   (A)   All signs located in the jurisdiction, with the exception of those
erected by state or federal government, are subject to the provisions of this
section. Signs under this chapter are treated four ways:
      (1)   Some types of signs are specifically prohibited everywhere;
      (2)   Certain signs are allowed by right and do not require permits prior
to installation;
      (3)   A third group of signs are considered to be accessory uses and may
be installed; provided that, they meet the provisions of this section and a
permit is obtained; and
      (4)   Billboards are classified as a principal use whose location is
regulated by §§
151.095 through
151.105 of this chapter.
   (B)   Billboards have specific development standards which are listed in §
151.210 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 6-1)
§ 151.146 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   Unless otherwise permitted under this section, the following signs are
prohibited in all zoning districts:
   (A)   Wind-blown devices such as, pennants, streamers, spinners, balloons,
gas-filled figures and other similar devices, except as advertising for a
temporary event or special promotion; (Permit required, see §§
151.065 through
151.081 of this chapter.)
   (B)   Animated signs, but not including electronic changeable copy signs;
   (C)   Portable signs, but not including signs which cannot be read from the
public right-of-way;
   (D)   Signs which project over a public right-of-way; except that, wall
signs may project up to 18 inches over a public right-of-way in zones which
permit structures to be built at the property line adjoining the street;
   (E)   Signs on vehicles that are parked in a location which is visible to
the public and for a period of time which indicates that the principal use of
the vehicle is for advertising rather than transport;
   (F)   Signs which are affixed to trees, rocks or other natural features;
   (G)   Signs of any type which imitate traffic-control devices; and
   (H)   Signs which extend vertically above the highest portion of the roof of
any structure.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 6-1)
§ 151.147 SIGNS EXEMPT FROM REGULATION.
   The following signs are exempt from regulation under this chapter; except
that, lighted signs require an electrical permit:
   (A)   Lights and decorations temporarily displayed on traditionally adopted
civic, patriotic or religious holidays;
   (B)   Hand-carried signs;
   (C)   Signs located on the interior of buildings, courts, lobbies, stadiums
or other structures which are not intended to be seen from the exterior of such
structures;
   (D)   Signs affixed to vehicles and trailers used in the normal transport of
goods or persons where the sign is incidental and accessory to the primary use
of the vehicle or trailer;
   (E)   Signs affixed to windows of vehicles;
   (F)   Signs not legible from a public or private street; and
   (G)   Flags of the United States, North Carolina, local governmental
jurisdictions, foreign nations having diplomatic relations with the United
States and any other flags adopted or sanctioned by the jurisdiction, subject
to U.S. Congressional protocol.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 6-1; Ord. passed 11-13-2025)
§ 151.148 SIGNS NOT REQUIRING PERMIT.
   The following signs are permitted in all zoning districts and may be
installed without obtaining a sign permit; provided that, they conform to the
specifications shown on Table 18 below.
   (A)   Directional, instructional or warning signs;
   (B)   Flags, emblems or insignia of corporate, political, professional,
fraternal, civic, religious or educational organizations;
   (C)   Certain temporary signs conforming to the provisions of Table 18
below. Other types of temporary signs may be allowed by permit following the
provisions of Tables 19 and 20 of this chapter. Allowed without a permit are:
      (1)   Temporary real estate and construction signs which are removed
within seven days of the completion of construction, or sale or lease of
property;
      (2)   Temporary yard sale signs which are posted for no longer than three
days per sale; and
      (3)   Temporary political signs located on private property which are
removed within seven days after the election.
   (D)   Historical or memorial plaques, tablets or markers;
   (E)   Identification signs including:
      (1)   Name and address plates, including those identifying home
occupations and rural family occupations;
      (2)   Directory signs in developments with multiple occupants;
      (3)   Building name and address signs for buildings with multiple
occupants; and
      (4)   Building markers (cornerstones or plaques).
   (F)   Signs painted or attached to vending machines, gas pumps, ice machines
or similar devices which indicate the contents of the machine, name or logo of
supplier, the price or operating instructions;
   (G)   Information board signs, in non-residential districts and for
institutional uses (e.g., churches, schools or cemeteries) permitted in
residential zones that list activities or events which will take place on the
premises where the sign is located; and
   (H)   Window signs painted on or attached to a window.
Table 18: Specifications for Signs Not Requiring a Permit
Type Number Permitted Area (sq. ft.) Setback (ft.) Height (ft.) Illuminationb
Table 18: Specifications for Signs Not Requiring a Permit
Type           Number      Area (sq.  Setback (ft.) Height (ft.) Illuminationb
               Permitted   ft.)
Directional
signs (all     NA          4          R/Wa          6            Indirect
districts)
Flags,
emblems,       1 per lot   60         R/Wa          40           Indirect
insignia (all  frontage
districts)
Historical,
memorial       1 per lot   4          R/Wa          6            Indirect
markers (all
districts)
Identification 1 per       4 per unit R/Wa          6            Indirect
signs          building
Information    1 per
boards (all    building    50         15            8            Indirect
districts)
Instructional
and warning    NA          6          NA            8            Direct
signs (all
districts)
Philosophical,
religious,
personal,      1 per lot
educational or frontagec   6          R/Wa          6            Direct
other signs
(all
districts)
Philosophical,
religious,
personal,
educational or
other signs
(RM and non-   1 per lot   100        R/Wa          12           Direct
residential    frontagec
districts and
major
subdivisions
in RS
Districts)
Temporary
political      NA          6          R/Wa          6            None
signs (all
districts)
Temporary real
estate signs
(RM and non-
residential    1 per lot
districts and  frontage    100        R/Wa          12           None
major
subdivisions
in RS
Districts)
Temporary real
estate, yard
sale and       1 per lot   PD         R/Wa          PD           None
construction   frontage
signs (all
districts)
Vending        NA          18         NA            6            Direct
machine signs
Window signs   Maximum 25%
(non-          of window   NA         NA            NA           Direct
residential    area
districts)
Notes to Table:
a Signs must be located outside public street right-of-way and outside any
sight distance area.
b Electrical permit required if sign is illuminated.
c 1 per 200 linear feet of lot frontage or portion thereof.
 
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 6-1; Ord. passed 11-13-2025)
§ 151.149 SIGNS REQUIRING PERMIT.
   All signs, except those listed in §§
151.147 and
151.148 of this chapter, shall not be installed until a permit has been
obtained. The size, height and number of signs permitted is specified in Tables
19 and 20 below.
Table 19: Specifications for Accessory Freestanding Signs Requiring a Permit
                Number    Area (sq. ft.)                            Area
Zoning District Permitted                Setback (ft.) Height (ft.) Computation
Table 19: Specifications for Accessory Freestanding Signs Requiring a Permit
                                      Number    Area (sq. ft.)   Setback Height Area
Zoning District                       Permitted Maximum Minimuma (ft.)   (ft.)  Computation

                                                                                0.25 square
                                      1 per lot                                 feet per
PI, LO, NB                            frontage  100     25       R/Wb    6      linear feet
                                                                                of lot
                                                                                frontage
                                                                                0.50 square
                                      1 per lot                                 feet per
GO-M, GO-H, CP, LB                    frontage  200     50       R/Wb    15     linear feet
                                                                                of lot
                                                                                frontage
                                                                                1.0 square
                                      1 per lot                                 feet per
GB, HB, LI, HI                        frontage  200d    75       R/Wb    30d    linear feet
                                                                                of lot
                                                                                frontage
SC
                                                                                # of
                                      1 per                                     businesses
   Development identification sign street    300     200      10      30d    4-15 = 200
                                      frontage                                  sq. ft. 16+
                                                                                = 300 sq.
                                                                                ft.
   Outparcel sign                  1 per     50      NA       R/Wb    6      NA
                                      parcel
                                      1 per
   Playbill sign                   theater   200     NA       10      30d    NA
                                      complex
                                      1 pair    50 per
   Development entrancec (all zonesper       sign    NA       R/Wb    6      NA
                                      entrance
                                                                                Linear
                                                                                frontage 0-
                                      1 per 500                                 100=12 sq.
   Banners (RM and Non-Residential feet of   20      12       R/Wb    20     ft. 101-201
Districts)                            frontage                                  = + 4 sq.
                                                                                ft. 201-
                                                                                500= +4 sq.
                                                                                ft.
Notes to Table:
1) Freestanding signs shall be allowed only as accessories to a principal use.
2) All signs may be directly illuminated.
3) Any sign greater than 6 feet in height shall not be located within 100 feet of any
residential zone.
a “Minimum” area refers to the minimum sign size allowed by right, regardless of the size
which would be allowed by computation.
b Signs must be located outside public street right-of-way and outside any sight distance
area.
c Permitted only in 1) major subdivisions, 2) developments over 15,000 square feet of gross
floor area, 3) multi-family developments with more than 8 dwellings units in a single
buildings or 4) developments with more than 40,000 square feet in open uses of land.
d Within 400 feet of an interstate highway, the maximum height is 50 feet and the maximum
size may be increased by 75 square feet.
e See §
151.152(C)(4) of this chapter.
Table 20: Specifications for Accessory Attached Signs Requiring a Permit
Type Number Permitte d Area (sq. ft.) Height (ft.) Area Computation
Table 20: Specifications for Accessory Attached Signs Requiring a Permit
                Number Permitte Area (sq. ft.)                  Area
Type            d               Maximum Minimuma Height (ft.)   Computation

Wall signs by                                                   5 % of wall
Zoning District NA              NA      25       Top of wall    areac,d
PI, LO, NB
GO-M, GO-H, CP, NA              NA      50       Top of wall    7.5% of wall
LB                                                              areac,d
GB, HB, SC, LI, NA              NA      50       Top of wall    10% of wall
HI                                                              areac,d
Awning, canopy                                                  25% of the
and marquee                                                     canopy, awning
signs (all non- 1 per face      NA      NA       Top of canopyb or marquee
residential                                                     facee
districts)
Suspended signs
(all non-       1 per entrance  6       NA       b              NA
residential
districts)
                                                                Linear
                                                                Frontage: 0-100
Banners (RM                                                     ft. = 12 sq.
District and    1 per 500 feet  20      12       b              ft.
non-residential of frontage                                     101-200 ft. =
districts)                                                      +4 sq. ft.
                                                                201-500 ft.= +4
                                                                sq. ft.
Notes to Table:
All signs may be directly illuminated.
a “Minimum” sign size refers to the minimum area allowed by right, regardless
of the size which would be allowed by computation.
b 9 feet height to clear pedestrian walkways or 15 feet to clear vehicular
drives.
c Based on the first 30 feet of height of the wall on which the sign is
located. Buildings over 30 feet in height may have additional sign area based
on 5% of the wall area above 30 feet in height; provided, the sign is located
at or near the top of the building.
d In multi-tenant buildings, the area computation shall be based on the wall
area of each separate occupancy.
e When the awning, canopy or marquee is attached to a multi-tenant building,
the area computation for all attached signs shall be based on the area
computation for the district. Any portion of this sign allocation may be
affixed to the wall, awning, canopy or marquee; provided that, no part of the
sign projects above the top of the wall.
 
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 6-1)
§ 151.150 COMPUTATION OF SIGN AREA.
   (A)   Area. The area of a sign shall be computed by means of the smallest
square, circle, rectangle, triangle or combination thereof which will encompass
the extreme limits of the writing, representation, emblem or other display,
together with any material or color forming an integral part of the background
of the display or used to differentiate the sign from the back drop or
structure against which it is placed, but not including any supporting
framework, bracing or decorative fence or wall.
   (B)   Area for multi-faced signs.
      (1)   For multi-faced signs, the sign area shall be computed by including
all sign faces visible from any one point.
      (2)   When two identical sign faces are placed back to back so that both
faces cannot be viewed from any point at the same time, and when such sign
faces are part of the same sign structure and are not more than 42 inches
apart, the sign area shall be computed by the measurement of one of the faces.
Figure 16: Measurement of Sign Area and Height (No Scale)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/becb2f9c6e5d0add85cd879a02d64c74e71e8c8f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-896.png]
 
   (C)   Height. Sign height shall be computed as the distance from the base of
the sign at finished lot grade or from the nearest adjacent street grade to
which the sign is oriented and the lot has frontage, whichever is higher, to
the top of the highest component of the sign. Finished grade shall be the grade
after construction, exclusive of any filling, berming, mounding or excavating
solely for the purpose of locating the sign.
   (D)   Lots with multi-frontage. Lots fronting on two or more streets are
allowed the permitted sign area for each street frontage. The total sign area
that is oriented toward a particular street, however, may not exceed the
portion of the lot’s total sign area that is derived from that street frontage
or building frontage.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 6-1)
§ 151.151 LOCATION, CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE SPECIFICATIONS.
   All signs permitted by this section shall be constructed and maintained in
accordance with the following provisions.
   (A)   Obstruction. No sign shall be erected so as to obstruct any fire
escape, required exit, window, door opening or wall opening intended as a means
of ingress or egress.
   (B)   Ventilation interference. No signs shall be erected so as to interfere
with any opening required for ventilation.
   (C)   Above ground clearance. All signs shall be located in such a way that
they maintain horizontal and vertical clearance from all electrical power lines
and communication lines in accordance with the applicable provisions of the
state’s Life Safety Code. Further, all signs shall be located so as to avoid
obstruction of pedestrian and vehicular traffic and to maintain safe sight
distances at the intersection of all streets, drives and sidewalks.
   (D)   Ground clearance. All signs and their supporting structures shall
maintain clearance from surface and underground utilities, conduits or
easements for water, sewage, gas, electricity or communication equipment. In
addition, the placement of signs and their supporting structures shall not
interfere with natural or artificial drainageways.
   (E)   Interference to warning or instructional sign. No sign shall be
erected so as to interfere with any existing warning or instructional sign.
   (F)   Permanence. Except for banners, flags, temporary signs and window
signs conforming with the requirements of this chapter, all signs shall be
constructed of permanent materials and shall be permanently attached to the
ground, a building or another structure by direct attachment to a rigid wall,
frame or structure. Banners and flags shall be constructed of a fire retardant
material or treated to be fire retardant.
   (G)   Maintenance. All signs shall be maintained in good structural
condition, in compliance with all Building and Electrical Codes and in
conformance with this chapter at all times.
   (H)   Minimum wind loads. All signs, except those attached flat against the
wall of a building, shall be constructed to withstand minimum wind loads as
specified by the state’s Building Code.
   (I)   Other codes. All signs shall comply with applicable provisions of the
Building and the Electrical Code.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 6-1)
§ 151.152 MASTER OR COMMON SIGNAGE PLAN.
   After the effective date of this chapter, no permit shall be issued for an
individual sign requiring a permit unless and until a master signage plan or a
common signage plan for the lot on which the sign will be erected has been
approved. A master signage plan shall be prepared for developments containing a
single principal building on a single lot, while a common signage plan shall be
prepared for developments containing more than one principal building or more
than one lot.
   (A)   Information required for a master signage plan.
      (1)   A site layout plan in accordance with §§
151.335 through
151.337 of this chapter;
      (2)   Specifications for each sign in sufficient detail to determine that
the height and area requirements of this chapter have been met; and
      (3)   Accurate location(s) on the site layout plan for each existing and
proposed sign.
   (B)   Common sign plan information. A common signage plan shall contain all
of the information required above, plus provisions for shared usage of
freestanding and attached signs.
   (C)   Other provisions.
      (1)   A master or common signage plan shall be a part of any development
plan, site plan, planned unit development or other plan required for
development and may be processed simultaneously with such plan(s) and shall be
approved prior to the issuance of any sign permit.
      (2)   A master or common signage plan may be amended by filing a new plan
which conforms with all requirements of this chapter. Minor changes may be
approved and noted by the Enforcement Officer on the existing plan.
      (3)   After approval of a master or common signage plan, no sign shall be
erected, placed, painted or maintained, except in conformance with such plan
and such plan may be enforced in the same way as any other provision of this
chapter. In case of any conflict between the provisions of such a plan and any
other provision of this chapter, the chapter shall control.
      (4)   An additional freestanding sign (see
Figure 17 below) in excess of the general limitation of one per frontage in the
GB, HB, LI and HI Districts as shown in Table 20 of this chapter will be
approved; provided:
         (a)   The lot frontage exceeds 250 linear feet.
         (b)   There is sufficient excess frontage to support the request for
an additional sign based on the rates in Table 20 of this chapter. Note: that,
if more than one sign is requested, there is no minimum area by right, and in
no case shall the maximum area for a sign exceed 200 square feet.
         (c)   Each sign shall be a minimum of 100 feet from any other
freestanding sign on the same zone lot and 100 feet from any other freestanding
sign on an adjacent zone lot that contains more than one freestanding sign.
Figure 17: Criteria for Additional Freestanding Signs (No Scale)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/becb2f9c6e5d0add85cd879a02d64c74e71e8c8f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-898.png]
 
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 6-1)
§ 151.153 PERMITS TO CONSTRUCT OR MODIFY.
   Signs shown as requiring a permit on Tables 19 and 20 above and billboards
shall be erected, installed or created only in accordance with a duly-issued
and valid sign permit. Such permits shall be issued in accordance with the
requirements and procedures of §§
151.065 through
151.081 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 6-1)
§ 151.154 SIGN CERTIFICATES.
   The owner of a lot containing signs requiring a permit under this chapter
shall maintain a sign certificate or non-conforming sign certificate for such
sign(s). Sign certificates and non-conforming sign certificates shall be issued
by the Enforcement Officer for individual signs on each zone lot.
   (A)   Signs existing on effective date. For any sign existing on the
effective date of this chapter, an application for a sign certificate must be
submitted within 180 days after the effective date of this chapter. Signs which
are the subject of permit applications received after this 180-day grace period
shall be subject to all terms and conditions of this chapter and shall not be
entitled to protection as non- conforming signs unless the sign has a sign
certificate.
      (1)   A sign that is prohibited or is allowed without a permit but does
not comply with this section, and was in existence on 7-1-1998 shall either be
removed or brought into compliance with this section by 7-1-1999.
      (2)   A sign that would be allowed by this section only with a sign
permit, and was legally in existence on 7-1-1998, and was constructed in
accordance with the applicable laws and ordinances in effect on the date of
construction, but by reason of its size, height, location, design or
construction is not in conformance with the requirements of this section, shall
be issued a non- conforming sign certificate if applications are filed on or
before 7-1-1999. If a property contains a greater number of legally-erected
signs than would be permitted by this section, then such signs shall be
entitled to non-conforming sign certificates if applications are filed on or
before 7-1-1999.
         (a)   A non-conforming sign certificate shall allow the sign to remain
in place and be maintained indefinitely as a legal non-conforming sign subject
to compliance with the following:
            1.   Normal maintenance of such sign shall be allowed including
changing of copy, non-structural repairs such as repainting or electrical
repairs, and incidental alterations which do not increase the degree or extent
of the non-conformity.
            2.   No structural alteration, enlargement or extension of such
sign shall be allowed.
            3.   No relocation of such sign upon the premises shall be allowed.
            4.   If damage to such sign from any cause is less than 50% of
either the original or replacement value, whichever is less, the sign may be
rebuilt or repaired to its original condition in its original location and may
continue to be displayed.
         (b)   The application for a non-conforming sign certificate may
include multiple signs on the same zone lot and shall contain the following:
            1.   A color print showing the entire sign(s) including any
supporting framework;
            2.   Dimensions of the sign(s) including length, width, height and
area in square feet;
            3.   An elevation drawing with dimensions of the facade or wall
area showing the location of any attached sign(s) in approximate scale; and
            4.   A site plan showing the location of all signs on the same zone
lot, including any setback or spacing measurements, if appropriate.
         (c)   This information shall be certified as to its accuracy and
completeness by the owner and/or occupant, whoever is in control of the sign
(s).
      (3)   A sign that would be allowed by this section only with a sign
permit and was in existence on 7-1-1998, but does not have a non-conforming
sign certificate shall either be removed or brought into compliance with this
section by 7-1-2003.
      (4)   A sign that would be allowed by this section only with a sign
permit and was in existence on 7-1-1998 and is in compliance with all
provisions of the section, but does not have a sign certificate may be issued a
sign certificate upon application to the Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   Signs erected after effective date. For signs erected after the
effective date of this chapter, a sign certificate shall be issued after
approval of all inspections.
   (C)   Lapse of sign certificate or non-conforming sign certificate. A non-
conforming sign certificate shall lapse automatically and the non-conforming
sign shall be brought into compliance with this section or removed if one of
the following occurs:
      (1)   If such sign is damaged from any cause to an extent of 50% or more
of either the original or replacement value, whichever is less;
      (2)   If there is a change in the sign such that a sign or electrical
permit is required; or
      (3)   If the business activity on the premises is discontinued for a
period of 90 days or more.
   (D)   Assignment of sign certificate. A current and valid sign certificate
or non-conforming sign certificate shall be freely assignable to a successor as
owner of the property or holder of a business license for the same premises,
subject only to filing such application as the Enforcement Officer may require.
The assignment shall be accomplished by filing and shall not require approval.
   (E)   Map amendment or text amendment. Any sign that is made non-conforming
by reason of zoning map amendment or any subsequent amendment to the text of
this section, shall be removed or brought into compliance as provided in
division (A) above.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 6-1)
§ 151.155 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Removal of signs. A sign for which a certificate has lapsed, or has
been revoked, or for which the time allowed for the continuance of a non-
conforming sign has expired, shall be removed.
   (B)   Signs in right-of-way. Any sign installed or placed on public property
or rights-of-way, except in compliance with this section or under an
encroachment agreement with the state’s Department of Transportation, shall be
forfeited to the public and be subject to confiscation.
   (C)   Obsolete signs. Any sign which advertises a business no longer
conducted on the premises shall be removed within 90 days of cessation of such
business.
   (D)   Unsafe signs. Any sign which is unsafe or insecure, or is a menace to
the public shall be removed after due notice by the Enforcement Officer has
been given.
   (E)   Deteriorated or abandoned signs. Any sign which has been abandoned or
which has not been properly maintained, to include cleaning and painting of
painted surfaces and replacement of damaged parts, shall be removed after due
notice by the Enforcement Officer has been given.
   (F)   Signs installed without permit. Any sign which has been installed in
violation of the state’s Building Code or in violation of this chapter shall be
removed after due notice by the Enforcement Officer has been given.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 6-1)
**** OFF-STREET PARKING, STACKING AND LOADING ****
§ 151.170 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Parking, stacking and loading space required. When any building or
structure is erected, modified, enlarged or increased in capacity, or any open
use is established, modified or enlarged, the requirements of this section
shall be met. For enlargements, modifications or increase in capacity, the
requirements of this section shall apply only to such enlargements,
modifications or increases in capacity.
   (B)   Required number.
      (1)   The minimum number of required off-street parking, stacking and
loading spaces is indicated in Table 21 below and §
151.176 of this chapter.
      (2)   In cases of mixed occupancy, the minimum number of off-street
parking, stacking and loading spaces shall be the cumulative total of
individual use requirements unless otherwise specified.
   (C)   Handicapped spaces.
      (1)   Spaces for the physically handicapped shall be provided as required
by the state’s Building Code and other applicable state and federal regulations
governing van accessibility.
      (2)   See
Figure 18.
   (D)   Minimum required. In all instances where off-street parking is
required, except for residential uses, a minimum of five parking spaces shall
be provided.
   (E)   Reduction of minimum requirements. Unless there is a change in use
requiring fewer spaces, the number of spaces shall not be reduced below the
minimum requirements of this chapter, except as provided for in §
151.190 of this chapter.
   (F)   Maintenance. All parking, stacking and loading facilities shall be
permanently maintained by the owners or occupants as long as the use they serve
exists.
   (G)   Access. All parking, stacking and loading facilities shall have
vehicular access to a public street.
   (H)   Use for no other purpose.
      (1)   Land used to provide required parking, stacking and loading shall
not be used for any other purposes, except for temporary events.
      (2)   If such land is devoted to any other purpose, the certificate of
occupancy of the affected principal use shall immediately become void.
Table 21: Off-Street Parking Requirements
Use Spaces Required
Table 21: Off-Street Parking Requirements
Use                                                                               Spaces Required
Accessory Uses
   Accessory dwelling units                                                    1/attached unit, 2/detached unit, located on
                                                                                  the same zone lot
   Home occupations                                                            Minimum 1 space, maximum 3 spaces in addition
                                                                                  to required residential spaces
   Migrant labor housing                                                       1/4 workers
Business, Professional and Personal Services
   Automobile repair or services                                               3/service bay plus 1/wrecker or service
                                                                                  vehicle, plus 2/3 employees on largest shift
                                                                                  * 1/200 square feet gross floor area, plus
   Banks and financial institutions                                            stacking for 4 vehicles at each drive-through
                                                                                  window or automatic teller machine
   Barber and beauty shops                                                     3/operator
   Car washes
                                                                                  * stacking for 30 vehicles or 10/approach
      Full-service                                                          lane, whichever is greater, plus 3 spaces in
                                                                                  the manual drying area plus 2/3 employees on
                                                                                  largest shift
      Self-service                                                          * 3 stacking spaces/approach lane, plus 2
                                                                                  drying spaces/stall
   Delivery services                                                           2/3 employees on largest shift, plus 1/
                                                                                  vehicle used in operation
   Equipment rental and leasing                                                1/200 square feet gross floor area
                                                                                  1/4 seats in main chapel, plus 2/3 employees
   Funeral home or crematoria                                                  on the largest shift plus 1/vehicle used in
                                                                                  operation
   Hotels and motels containing:
      5,000 square feet or less ancillary space, i.e., restaurant, meeting r1.1/rental unit
lounge or lobby or a restaurant/lounge containing 3,000 square feet or less
      More than 5,000 square feet of ancillary space, i.e., restaurant, meet1.25/rental unit
rooms, lounge or lobby or a restaurant/lounge containing over 3,000 square feet
                                                                                  1/300 square feet of sales, grooming or
   Kennels or pet grooming                                                     customer waiting area, plus 2/3 employees on
                                                                                  largest shift
   Laundromat (coin operated)                                                  1/4 pieces or rental equipment
                                                                                  * 2/3 employees on largest shift, plus 1/
   Laundry and dry cleaning plants or substation                               vehicle used in operation plus stacking for 4
                                                                                  vehicles/pickup station
   Laboratories                                                                * 2/3 employees on largest shift, plus 1/250
                                                                                  square feet of office space
   Medical, dental or related offices                                          3/examining room, plus 1/employee including
                                                                                  doctors
   Motion picture production                                                   1/1000 square feet of gross floor area
   Recreational vehicle park or campsite                                       Refer to development standards for
                                                                                  recreational vehicle parks (section 6-4)
   Repair of bulky items (appliances, furniture, boats and the like)           2/3 employees on largest shift, plus 1/
                                                                                  vehicle used in operation
   Tanning salons                                                              2/tanning bed, plus 1/employee
   Theaters (indoor)                                                           1/4 seats
   Truck wash                                                                  * 3 stacking spaces/stall
   Veterinary service (other)                                                  4/doctor, plus 1/employee including doctors
   Vocational, business or secretarial schools                                 1/100 square feet of classroom space, plus 1/
                                                                                  250 square feet of office space
   Services and repairs not otherwise classified                               1/250 square feet gross floor area, plus 1/
                                                                                  vehicle used in operation
                                                                                  * Stacking for 4 vehicles at each bay,
Drive-throughs not otherwise classified                                           window, lane, ordering station or machine in
                                                                                  addition to use requirement
Educational and Institutional Uses
   Ambulance services; fire stations; police stations                          1/employee on largest shift
   Auditoriums; assembly halls; coliseums; convention centers; stadiums        1/5 persons based on designed capacity of
                                                                                  building(s)
   Churches                                                                    1/4 seats in main chapel
                                                                                  7/classroom, plus 1/4 beds in main campus
   Colleges and universities                                                   dorms plus 1/250 square feet of office space,
                                                                                  plus 1/5 fixed seats in assembly halls and
                                                                                  stadiums
   Correctional institutions                                                   1/10 inmates, plus 2/3 employees on largest
                                                                                  shift, plus 1/vehicle used in the operation
   Day care, child or adult                                                    1/employee, plus 1/10 children with parking
                                                                                  located on site
   Elementary and middle schools; kindergartens                                3/room used for offices, plus 3/classroom
   Government offices; post offices                                            1/150 square feet of public service area,
                                                                                  plus 2/3 employees on largest shift
                                                                                  1/4 in-patient or out-patient beds, plus 2/
   Hospitals                                                                   3 employees on largest shift, plus 1/staff
                                                                                  doctor
                                                                                  1/450 square feet of gross floor area for
   Libraries, museums and art galleries                                        public use, plus 2/3 employees on largest
                                                                                  shift
   Nursing and convalescent homes                                              1/4 beds, plus 1/employee and visiting
                                                                                  specialist, plus 1/vehicle used in operation
   Senior high schools                                                         3/room used for offices, plus 7/classroom
                                                                                  2/3 employees on largest shift, plus 1/200
Manufacturing and Industrial Uses                                                 square feet of retail sales or customer
                                                                                  service area, plus 1/vehicle used in
                                                                                  operation
Offices (not otherwise classified)                                                1/250 square feet gross floor area
Recreation
   Amusement parks; fairgrounds; skating rinks                                 1/200 square feet of activity area
   Athletic fields                                                             25/field
   Batting cages, driving ranges; miniature golf; shooting ranges              1/cage, tee or firing point
   Billiard parlors; tennis courts                                             3/table or court
   Bingo games                                                                 1/3 persons in designed capacity of the
                                                                                  building
   Bowling centers                                                             4/lane
   Clubs or lodges, coin-operated amusement, physical fitness centers and simil1/200 square feet of gross floor area
indoor recreation
   Go-cart raceways                                                            1/go-cart, plus 1/employee on largest shift
   Equestrian facilities                                                       1/2 stalls
   Swimming pools                                                              1/100 square feet of water and deck space
Residential Uses
   Boarding and rooming house; bed and breakfast; fraternity or sorority; priva1/bedroom, plus 2/3 employees on largest
dormitory                                                                         shift
   Congregate care, family care or group care facilities                       1/4 beds, plus 1/employee and visiting
                                                                                  specialist, plus 1/vehicle used in operation
   Multi-family dwellings (including condominiums)
      0 to 1 bedroom units                                                  1.50/unit
      2 bedroom units                                                       1.75/unit
      3 or more bedroom units                                               2.00/unit
                                                                                  1/resident staff member, plus 2/3 non-
   Shelter for the homeless                                                    resident staff members and/or volunteers on
                                                                                  the largest shift, plus 1/each vehicle used
                                                                                  in the operation
   Single-family detached, duplex and twin home dwellings                      2/dwelling unit on the same lot
                                                                                  1/3 rooming units, plus 2/3 employees on the
   Single-room occupancy residence                                             largest shift, plus 1/each vehicle used in
                                                                                  the operation
                                                                                  2.25/dwelling unit for units using individual
                                                                                  garages and driveways. Refer to §
   Townhouse dwellings                                                         151.174(D)
                                                                                  2.1/dwelling unit for units using bay, common
                                                                                  carports or other form of group parking
Retail Trade
                                                                                  1/3 persons in designed capacity of building,
   Bars, dance halls                                                           plus 2/3 employees on largest shift, located
                                                                                  on same zone lot
   Convenience stores                                                          * 1/200 square feet gross floor area, plus 4
                                                                                  stacking spaces at pump islands
   Department stores; food stores                                              1/200 square feet gross floor area
   Flea markets; salvage yards and other open air sales                        1/acre of site area, plus 2/3 employees on
                                                                                  largest shift
   Fuel oil sales                                                              2/3 employees on largest shift, plus 1/
                                                                                  vehicle used in operation
   Furniture; floor covering sales                                             1/1,000 square feet gross floor area
   Motor vehicle, motorcycle or recreational vehicle sales or rental;          5 spaces, plus 1/10,000 square feet of
manufactured home sales                                                           display area, plus 2/3 employees on largest
                                                                                  shift
                                                                                  * 1/4 seats, plus 2/3 employees on largest
   Restaurants                                                                 shift and 11 total stacking spaces with
                                                                                  minimum 5 spaces at or before ordering
                                                                                  station
   Retail sales not otherwise classified                                       1/200 square feet gross floor area
   Retail sales of bulky items (appliances, building materials and the like)   1/500 square feet of gross floor area
                                                                                  * 3/service bay, plus 1/wrecker or service
   Service stations, gasoline                                                  vehicle, plus 2/3 employees on largest shift
                                                                                  plus 4 stacking spaces at pump islands
   Shopping Centers
                                                                                  1/200 square feet gross floor area in main
      < 250,000 square feet                                                 building(s) (excluding theaters), plus
                                                                                  parking as required for outparcels or
                                                                                  theaters
      > 250,000 square feet gross floor area                                1,250 spaces, plus 1/225 square feet gross
                                                                                  floor area above 250,000 square feet
Transportation, Warehousing and Utilities
   Airport, bus and train terminals                                            1/4 seats, plus 2/3 employees on largest
                                                                                  shift
   Communication towers; beneficial fill area, land clearing and inert debris  No required parking
(LCID) landfills; heliports; utility lines or substations
   Recycling processing centers                                                1/employee on largest shift
   Self-storage warehouses                                                     5 spaces
   Transportation, warehousing and utility uses not otherwise classified       2/3 employees on largest shift, plus 1/
                                                                                  vehicle used in operation
Wholesale Trade
   Market showroom                                                             1/1,000 square feet gross floor area
                                                                                  2/3 employees on largest shift, plus 1/200
   Wholesale uses                                                              square feet of retail sales or customer
                                                                                  service area, plus 1/vehicle
Notes to Table:
/= Per
* NCDOT may require additional stacking spaces on state or federal highways
 
Figure 18: Handicapped and Van Accessible Parking Space Requirements (No Scale)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/becb2f9c6e5d0add85cd879a02d64c74e71e8c8f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-900.png]
 
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 6-2)
§ 151.171 UNLISTED USES.
   For any use not specifically listed in this subchapter, the parking,
stacking and loading requirements shall be those of the most similar use.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 6-2)
§ 151.172 PARKING REQUIREMEN TS FOR CHANGE IN USE.
   If a change in use causes an increase in the required number of off-street
parking, stacking or loading spaces, such additional spaces shall be provided
in accordance with the requirements of this chapter; except that, if the change
in use would require an increase of less than 5% in the required number of
parking spaces or fewer than five spaces, no additional off-street parking
shall be required.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 6-2)
§ 151.173 DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Design. Parking facilities shall be designed and constructed to:
      (1)   Allow unobstructed movement into and out of each parking space
without interfering with fixed objects or vehicles;
      (2)   Minimize delay and interference with traffic on public streets and
access drives;
      (3)   Maximize sight distances from parking lot exits and access drives;
and
      (4)   All off-street parking spaces in parking lots shall have access
from parking lot driveways and not directly from streets.
   (B)   Dimensional requirements. Parking facilities shall be designed and
constructed to meet minimum, parking space dimensions, aisle dimensions and
other standards found in
Table 21 above.
   (C)   Improvements; paving.
      (1)   Required parking spaces, access drives and loading areas shall be
paved and maintained with concrete, asphalt or similar material of sufficient
thickness and consistency to support anticipated traffic volumes and weights.
      (2)   Access drives shall be paved and maintained from the curbline to a
point at least ten feet beyond the public right-of-way line for all parking and
loading facilities, whether paved or unpaved.
      (3)   Paving shall not be required for:
         (a)   Parking facilities used on an irregular basis for churches,
private clubs or other similar non-profit organizations;
         (b)   Parking facilities for residential uses where six or fewer
spaces are required;
         (c)   Parking areas for agricultural uses in the Agricultural (AG)
District;
         (d)   Parking areas in the Heavy Industrial (HI) District or
manufacturing and industrial uses in the Light Industrial (LI) District;
provided, they are constructed with an all-weather surface; and
         (e)   Parking areas for tracked heavy construction equipment, skid-
mounted equipment and similar equipment; provided, they are constructed with an
all-weather surface.
      (4)   Where parking facilities are paved, curb and gutter or an
equivalent drainage system shall be provided along the periphery of the parking
lot, except where it is determined by the Enforcement Officer that such system
is not practical for storm drainage purposes.
Table 22: Parking Space Geometric Design Standards
a              b               c              d            e            f1 f2
Parking Angle  Stall Width (*) Stall to Curb  Aisle Width  Curb Length
(Degrees)                      (Ft.)          (Ft.)        (Ft.)
Table 22: Parking Space Geometric Design Standards
                                                          f1       f2
a                                                         Center-to-Center
Parking   b           c          d           e            Width of Two Row Bin
Angle     Stall Width Stall to   Aisle Width Curb Length  with Access Road
(Degrees) (*)         Curb (Ft.) (Ft.)       (Ft.)        Between (Ft.)
                                                          Curb-to- Overlap C- C
                                                          Curb
8’-6” 8.5         12.0       23.0        29.0         -
9’-0” 9.0         12.0       23.0        30.0         -
9’-6” 9.5         12.0       23.0        31.0         -
10’-0”10.0        12.0       23.0        32.0         -
8’-6” 16.9        11.0       17.0        44.8         37.4
9’-0” 17.3        11.0       18.0        45.6         37.8
9’-6” 17.8        11.0       19.0        46.6         38.4
10’-0”18.2        11.0       20.0        47.8         38.7
8’-6” 19.4        13.5       12.0        52.3         46.3
9’-0” 19.8        13.0       12.7        52.6         46.2
9’-6” 20.1        13.0       13.4        53.2         46.5
10’-0”20.5        13.0       14.1        54.0         46.9
8’-6” 20.7        18.5       9.8         59.9         55.6
9’-0” 21.0        18.0       10.4        60.0         55.5
9’-6” 21.2        18.0       11.0        60.4         55.6
10’-0”21.2        18.0       11.5        61.0         56.0
8’-6” 19.0        25.0       8.5         63.0         -
9’-0” 19.0        24.0       9.0         62.0         -
9’-6” 19.0        24.0       9.5         62.0         -
10’-0”19.0        24.0       10.0        62.0         -
Notes to Table:
(*) 9’-0” Recommended
1 8’-6” Minimum
2 7’-6” Compact cars only, for non-required spaces only
Stacking Space Geometric Design Standards: Stacking spaces shall be 12 feet by
20 feet.
 
Figure 19: Stall Design
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/becb2f9c6e5d0add85cd879a02d64c74e71e8c8f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-906.png]
 
      (5)    All facilities shall be graded, properly drained, stabilized and
maintained to minimize dust and erosion.
      (6)    All parking spaces and stacking lanes shall be clearly identified
with paint lines, bumper guards, curbs or similar treatment.
      (7)    All parking spaces shall be provided with wheel guards or curbs
located so that no part of the parked vehicle will extend beyond the property
line or encroach more than two feet into a required planting area.
      (8)   Concrete pads for stationary refuse containers shall be provided
beneath and in the approach to each container.
      (9)   Parking lots shall be designed and constructed such that walkways
shall maintain a minimum unobstructed width of four feet. (Vehicle encroachment
is calculated as two feet beyond curb.)
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 6-2)
§ 151.174 LOCATION.
   (A)   Off-site parking lots. When required off-street parking is permitted
to be located off-site, it shall begin within 400 feet of the zone lot
containing the principal use. Required off-street parking shall not be located
across an intervening major or minor thoroughfare.
   (B)   Parking in non-residential district. Automobile parking for any use
may be provided in any non-residential district.
   (C)   Parking in residential districts. See
Figure 20. Surface parking in a residential district for any use not permitted
in that district is allowed under the following conditions.
      (1)   Property on which the parking is located must abut the lot
containing the use which the parking serves. The property must be under the
same ownership or subject to a parking encumbrance agreement approved by the
enforcement office. All access to such property shall be through non-
residentially zoned property.
      (2)   Parking shall be used only during daylight hours, except by special
use permit.
      (3)   Parking shall be used by customers, patrons, employees, guests or
residents of the use which the parking serves.
      (4)   No parking shall be located more than 120 feet into the residential
zoning district. Parking may be allowed to extend up to 400 feet into the
residential zoning district with approval of a special use permit.
      (5)   No parking shall be permitted closer than 150 feet to any public
street right-of-way upon which the principal use would not be permitted
driveway access.
      (6)   Long-term or dead storage, loading, sales, repair work or servicing
of vehicles is prohibited.
   (D)   Townhouse developments.
      (1)   In developments using individual driveways and garages to meet
parking requirements, visitor parking areas shall be distributed such that the
front entrance to each unit is not further than 200 feet from such area.
      (2)   A maximum of two spaces shall be assigned to driveway/gara ge units
with 0.25 spaces per unit defined as visitor parking.
Figure 20: Parking in Residential Districts (No Scale)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/becb2f9c6e5d0add85cd879a02d64c74e71e8c8f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-908.png]
 
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 6-2)
§ 151.175 COMBINED PARKING.
   (A)    Separate uses. The required parking for separate or mixed uses may be
combined in one facility.
   (B)   Shared parking.
      (1)   A maximum of 50% of the parking spaces required for a church,
theater, auditorium or assembly hall or other similar use may also serve as
required spaces for another use located on the same zone lot. Shared spaces may
also be located off-site as allowed in §
151.174(A) of this chapter. In either case, the Enforcement Officer must
determine that the various activities will have peak parking demands at
different periods of the day or week.
      (2)   Otherwise, no off-street parking required for one building or use
shall be applied toward the requirements of any other building or use.
   (C)   Reassignment. Required off-street parking spaces shall not be leased
or otherwise assigned to another use, except as provided in division (B) above.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 6-2)
§ 151.176 LOADING AREAS.
   (A)   Location. Off-street loading areas shall be located on the same zone
lot as the use they serve.
   (B)   Design standards.
      (1)   Minimum number of loading spaces required:
Table 23: Retail Operations, Including Restaurant and Dining Facilities Within
Hotels and Office Buildings
Gross Floor Area (sq. ft.) Number of Spaces
Table 23: Retail Operations, Including Restaurant and Dining Facilities Within
Hotels and Office Buildings
Gross Floor Area (sq. ft.)                                  Number of Spaces
0 - 20,000                                                  0
20,001 - 40,000                                             1
40,001 - 75,000                                             2
75,001 - 150,000                                            3
150,001 - 250,000                                           4
For each additional 250,000 square feet or fraction thereof 1
 
Table 24: Office Buildings and Hotels
Gross Floor Area (sq. ft.)                                  Number of Spaces
0 - 100,000                                                 0
For each additional 100,000 square feet or fraction thereof 1
Table 25: Industrial and Wholesale Operations
Gross Floor Area (ft.2) Number of Spaces
Table 25: Industrial and Wholesale Operations
Gross Floor Area (ft.2)                                    Number of Spaces
0 - 10,000                                                 0
10,000 - 40,000                                            1
40,001 - 100,000                                           2
100,001 - 160,000                                          3
160,001 - 240,000                                          4
240,001 - 320,000                                          5
320,001 - 400,000                                          6
For each additional 90,000 square feet or fraction thereof 1
 
      (2)   Each loading area shall be at least 12 feet wide, 65 feet long and
14 feet in clearance. See Figure 21 below.
      (3)    All off-street loading areas shall be arrange d and marked to
provide for orderly and safe unloadi ng and loading, and shall not hinder the
free movem ent of vehicles and pedestri ans. All loading and unloading maneuv
ers shall take place on private property. No backing in from street or
maneuvering on right-of-way shall be permitted.
Figure 21: Loading and Stacking Arrangements (No Scale)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/becb2f9c6e5d0add85cd879a02d64c74e71e8c8f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-910.png]
 
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 6-2)
**** LANDSCAPING ****
§ 151.190 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Exemptions. These requirements shall not apply to:
      (1)   Single-family detached dwellings or two-family dwellings on their
own lots;
      (2)   Multi-family developments containing eight or fewer dwelling units
in a single zone (building) lot;
      (3)   Properties within the General Business (GB) Zoning District as
described below;
         (a)   Developed or proposed to be developed with principal building(s)
setback five feet or less to a property line coinciding with public right-of-
way or five feet or less from an adjacent property that is zoned for non-
residential land uses. The exemption shall completely waive the street planting
yard and/or planting yards normally required to be installed between adjacent
uses but only alongside the principal building(s); and
         (b)   Developed or proposed to be developed with principal building(s)
setback more than five feet, but less than ten feet to a property line
coinciding with public right-of-way. The exemption shall partially waive the
street planting yard, specifically the canopy tree planting requirement, but
only along side the principal building(s).
      (4)   Property lines abutting railroad rights-of-way and utility
easements in excess of 60 feet in width; and
      (5)   Property lines abutting dedicated street right-of-way which has
remained unopened for a period of at least 15 years.
   (B)   Application. These requirements shall apply to the following:
      (1)   New principal building or use. Principal buildings or open uses of
land constructed or established after the adoption of this chapter;
      (2)   Changes in use. Changes in use which result in an increase of two
or more in the land use classification number. The requirements of this section
shall be applicable to the entire zone lot; and
      (3)   Expansions or reconstruction.
         (a)   Expansions which will result in a parking or building square
footage increases of more than 3,000 square feet for developments existing on
the effective date of this chapter.
         (b)   In such cases the landscaping requirements shall apply only to
the expansion.
   (C)   Reduction in parking requirements for pre-existing developments and
properties in the General Business (GB) Zoning District.
      (1)   To allow compliance with the landscaping regulations, the number of
required off-street parking spaces may be reduced by the Enforcement Officer up
to 10%.
      (2)   To allow properties in the general business district to be
reasonably developed and/or redeveloped, the Planning Board is authorized to
reduce the off-street parking requirement by up to 20% for any use permitted in
the General Business District. A written narrative stating the rationale for a
parking reduction, including, expected parking demands, shall be provided by
the applicant.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 6-3; Ord. passed 11-17-2011(1); Ord. passed 11-17-
2011(2))
§ 151.191 PLANTING YARDS; DETERMINATION.
   (A)   Planting yards.
      (1)   Required planting areas. The following areas are required to be
landscaped:
         (a)   Street planting yards;
         (b)   Parking lots (excluding vehicle loading, storage and display
areas); and
         (c)   Planting yards.
      (2)   Planting area descriptions.
         (a)   Street planting yard. A planting area parallel to a public
street designed to provide continuity of vegetation along the right-of-way and
a pleasing view from the road. No more than 15% of the street planting yard may
be used for walkways or signs. Parking, merchandise display and off-street
loading are prohibited in the street planting yard. See
Figure 22 below.
         (b)   Parking lot plantings. Planting areas within and adjacent to
parking areas designed to shade and improve the attractiveness of large areas
of pavement.
         (c)   Type A planting yard. A high density screen intended to block
substantially visual contact between adjacent uses and create spatial
separation. A Type A planting yard reduces lighting and noise which would
otherwise intrude upon adjacent uses. See
Figure 23 below.
         (d)   Type B planting yard. A medium density screen intended to
partially block visual contact between uses and create spatial separation. See
Figure 23 below.
         (e)   Type C planting yard. A low density screen intended to partially
block visual contact between uses and create spatial separation. See
Figure 24 below.
         (f)   Type D planting yard. A peripheral planting strip intended to
separate uses, provide vegetation in densely-developed areas and enhance the
appearance of individual properties. See
Figure 24 below.
   (B)   Planting yard determination. To determine the planting yards required
by this chapter, the following steps shall be taken:
      (1)   Identify the classification of the proposed or expanded land use
and of any existing or proposed adjacent land use(s) by using the permitted use
schedule, §
151.097 of this chapter. A land use becomes existing on an adjacent property
when a building permit is issued. If a zone lot contains uses with different
land use classifications, select the higher numbered classification, then:
      (2)   Use the planting yard chart,
Table 26 below, to determine the appropriate letter designation for each
planting yard, then;
      (3)   Match the letter designation obtained from the planting yard chart
with the planting rate chart,
Table 27 below, to determine the types and numbers of shrubs and trees
required.
 
Table 26: Planting Yard Chart
Proposed Land Use Existing Adjacent Use(s)
                  Land Use Classification 1 2 3 4 5 Undeveloped
Notes to Table:
* No planting yard required
Table 27: Planting Yard Rate Chart
Yard Type Minimum Width  Min. Avg. Width  Maximum Width  Planting Yard Rates
          (ft.)          (ft.)            (ft.)
Table 27: Planting Yard Rate Chart
          Minimum     Min. Avg.   Maximum     Planting Yard Rates
Yard Type Width (ft.) Width (ft.) Width (ft.) Canopy Tree Understory Shrub Rate
                                              Rate        Tree Rate
Street    8           8           25          2/100 Ifb   NAc        17/100 If
yard
Type A    40a         50a         75          4/100 If/oc 10/100 lf/ 33/100 If/
yard                                                      oc         oc
Type B    25a         30a         50          3/100 If    5/100 If   25/100 If
yard
Type C    15a         20a         40          2/100 Ifb   3/100 If   17/100 If
yard
Type D    5           5           10          -           2/100 If   18/100 If
yard
Parking                                       1/12
lot       NA          NA          NA          parking     NAc        NA
                                              spacesb
Notes to Table:
If: linear fee
oc: on center
a Walls, a minimum of 5 feet in height, constructed of masonry, stone or
pressure treated lumber or an opaque fence, a minimum of 5 feet in height, may
be used to reduce the widths of the planting yards by 10 feet.
b In street yards, Type C and Type D planting yards, and parking lots
understory trees maybe substituted for canopy trees at the rate of 2 understory
trees for each required canopy tree.
c One understory tree may be substituted for each required canopy tree if the
Technical Review Committee determines that there would be a major conflict with
overhead utility lines.
Note: on lots of record less than 55,000 square feet in area, no development
shall be required to place required landscaping on greater than 15% of the
site.
 
Image 22: Street Planting Yard (No Scale)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/becb2f9c6e5d0add85cd879a02d64c74e71e8c8f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-912.png]
Figure 23: Planting Yard Types A and B (No Scale)
 
 
Figure 24: Planting Yard Types C and D (No Scale)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/becb2f9c6e5d0add85cd879a02d64c74e71e8c8f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-918.png]
Figure 25: Application of Landscaping Requirements (No Scale)
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 6-3; Ord. passed 11-17-2011(1); Ord. passed 11-17-
2011(2))
§ 151.192 DESIGN AND MAINTENANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Calculation of street planting yards. Street planting yard rate and
width calculations shall exclude access drives.
   (B)   Plant species. Species used in required street planting yards, parking
lots and planting yards shall be of a locally adapted nature. Refer to the
recommended plant species list. Other species may be approved by the
Enforcement Officer.
   (C)   Dimension of planting areas. Each planting area containing trees,
including those located in parking lots, shall have a minimum inside dimension
of seven feet and be at least 200 square feet in area.
   (D)   Grouping. For the Type B, C and D planting yards, shrubs and trees may
be grouped or clustered; however, not more than 50% of each required plant
material may be grouped or clustered. The remainder of the materials shall be
distributed throughout the planting yard. There shall be at least one row of
evergreen shrubs or evergreen understory trees in all Type A planting yards.
   (E)   Parking lot spacing. Required canopy tree areas shall be distributed
throughout parking lots and shall be located within or adjacent to parking lots
as tree islands, at the end of parking bays, medians, or between rows of
parking spaces. See
Figure 26 below.
   (F)    Canopy tree size. Canopy trees must be a minimum of eight feet high
and two inches in caliper, measured six inches above grade, when planted. When
mature, a canopy tree should be at least 40 feet high and have a crown width of
30 feet or greater.
Figure 26: Parking Lot Plantings (No Scale)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/becb2f9c6e5d0add85cd879a02d64c74e71e8c8f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-920.png]
 
   (G)    Understory tree size. Understory trees must be a minimum of four feet
high and one inch in caliper, measured six inches above grade, when planted.
   (H)   Shrub size. All approved shrubs shall be installed at a minimum size
of 18 inches, spread or height and are expected to reach a minimum height of 36
inches, and a minimum spread of 30 inches within three years of planting.
   (I)   Berm. Berms may be used in an alternate planting plan as a substitute
for some plant materials, subject to approval of the Enforcement Officer.
   (J)   Wall planters. Wall planters shall be constructed of masonry, stone,
or pressure treated lumber stamped for ground contact (AWPB LP-22 1980 or
equivalent). The minimum height of the wall planter shall be 30 inches. The
minimum height of shrubs in the wall planter shall be six inches. The effective
planting area of the wall planter shall be four feet in width. If the wall
planter is to contain trees, the effective planting width shall be seven feet.
   (K)   Encroachments permitted in required planting yards. The following are
permitted in required planting yards; provided, the landscaping requirements
are met and there is no interference with any sight area:
      (1)   Landscaping features, including, but not limited to, ornamental
pools, planting boxes, sculpture, arbors, trellises and birdbaths;
      (2)   Pet shelters, at-grade patios, play equipment, outdoor furniture,
ornamental entry columns and gates, flag poles, lamp posts, address posts, HVAC
equipment, mailboxes, outdoor fire places, public utility wires and poles,
pumps, wells, fences, retaining walls or similar structures;
      (3)   Cornices, steps, canopies overhanging eaves and gutters, window
sills, bay windows or similar architectural features, chimneys and fire places,
fire escapes, fire balconies, and fire towers may project not more than two and
one-half feet into any required planting yard, but in no case shall be closer
than three feet to any property line; and
      (4)   Permanent runoff control structures.
   (L)   Fence location within required planting yards. The setback of fences
within a required planting yard shall be subject to the approval of a
landscaping plan.
   (M)   Setback less than planting yard. If the required building setback is
less than the required planting yard, the building setback shall control,
reducing the required planting yard width only alongside the building. The
planting rate of the required planting yard shall still apply.
   (N)   Location of planting material outside shade of building. Where a
building is located less than ten feet from a property line, and the planting
yard would be heavily shaded by buildings on both sides of the property line,
the required trees and shrubs may be planted outside the shaded area to improve
survivability.
   (O)   Obstructions. Landscaping shall not obstruct the view of motorists
using any street, driveway or parking aisle.
   (P)   Location. Required trees and shrubs shall not be installed in street
rights-of-way. Required trees and shrubs may be placed in water quality
conservation easements. Required trees and shrubs may be planted in electric
utility easements below overhead lines and in drainage maintenance and utility
easements by approval of the Technical Review Committee.
   (Q)   Plant protection. Whenever planting areas are adjacent to parking lots
or drives, the planting areas shall be protected from damage by vehicles,
lubricants or fuels.
   (R)   Maintenance. The owner is responsible for maintaining all required
plant materials and planting areas in good health and appearance. Any dead,
unhealthy or missing plants must be replaced within 180 days with vegetation
which conforms to the initial planting rates and standards. When plant material
is severely damaged due to unusual weather conditions or other acts of God, the
owner shall have two years to replant.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 6-3; Ord. passed 11-17-2011(1); Ord. passed 11-17-
2011(2))
§ 151.193 PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Landscaping plan required. Prior to obtaining a building permit, an
applicant must receive approval of a landscaping plan from the Enforcement
Officer; except that, site plans submitted in accordance with §
151.075(D)(2)(b) of this chapter may include a conceptual landscaping plan and
delay submission of the landscaping plan for up to 90 days after issuance of
the building permit.
   (B)   Installation of plant materials.
      (1)   Installation of plant material shall occur prior to the issuance of
a certificate of occupancy.
      (2)   If at the time of a request for a certificate of occupancy, the
required planting areas are not complete and it can be determined that:
         (a)   Plant materials are unavailable;
         (b)   Completion of the planting areas would jeopardize the health of
the plant materials; or
         (c)   Weather conditions prohibit completion of the planting areas,
then the installation of plant materials may be deferred by the Enforcement
Officer. The developer shall submit a copy of a signed contract for
installation of the required planting areas and may be required to post a
surety equal to the amount of the contract. In no instance shall the surety be
for a period greater than 180 days. The Enforcement Officer may issue a
temporary certificate of occupancy, but shall not issue a certificate of
occupancy until the planting areas have been completed and approved.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 6-3; Ord. passed 11-17-2011(1); Ord. passed 11-17-
2011(2))
§ 151.194 ALTERNATE METHODS OF COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   General provisions.
      (1)   Alternate landscaping plans, plant materials or planting methods
may be used where unreasonable or impractical situations would result from
application of landscaping requirements. Such situations may result from
utility easements, streams, natural rock formations, topography, lot
configuration or where other physical conditions exist, or where other site
conditions exist such as unified development design.
      (2)   The Enforcement Officer may approve an alternate plan which
proposes different plant materials, planting yard widths or methods; provided
that, quality, effectiveness, durability and performance are equivalent to that
required by this chapter.
      (3)   The performance of alternate landscaping plans must be reviewed by
the Enforcement Officer to determine if the alternate plan meets the intent and
purpose of this chapter. This determination shall take into account the land
use classification of adjacent property, number of plantings, species,
arrangement and coverage, location of plantings on the lot and the level of
screening, height, spread and canopy of the plantings at maturity.
      (4)   Decisions of the Enforcement Officer regarding alternate methods of
compliance may be appealed to the Technical Review Committee.
   (B)   Lot of record provisions. For zone lots less than 100 feet in width,
the following provisions may be applied.
      (1)   For zone lots less than 100 feet and greater than 80 in width where
Type D planting yards are required, one Type D planting yards may be eliminated
from the landscaping plan if the Enforcement Officer finds that strict
application of the requirements of this section prevents reasonable use of the
property. However, the plantings required for this yard shall be installed in
remaining planting yards.
      (2)   For zone lots less than 80 feet in width where Type D planting
yards are required, two Type D planting yards may be eliminated from the
landscaping plan if the Enforcement Officer finds that strict application of
the requirements of this section prevents reasonable use of the property. All
required plants for these yards shall be installed in remaining planting yards.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 6-3; Ord. passed 11-17-2011(1); Ord. passed 11-17-
2011(2))
§ 151.195 PRESERVING EXISTING TREES.
   (A)   General. Any existing tree or group of trees which stands within or
near a required planting area and meets or exceeds the standards of this
chapter may be used to satisfy the tree requirements of the planting area. The
protection of tree stands, rather than individual trees, is strongly
encouraged.
   (B)   Protection of existing trees. To receive credit, trees must be
protected from direct and indirect root damage and trunk and crown disturbance.
The following standards shall apply.
      (1)   The protected area around trees shall include all land within the
canopy drip line.
      (2)   Construction site activities such as parking, material storage,
soil stock piling and concrete washout shall not be permitted within tree
protection areas.
      (3)   Protective fencing shall be installed around tree protection areas
prior to any land disturbance. Such fences shall be at least four feet high and
may consist of snow fence or polyethylene safety fencing. Fencing shall remain
in place until construction is complete and other landscaping has been
installed.
   (C)   Dead or unhealthy trees. No credit will be allowed for any dead tree,
any tree in poor health or any tree subjected to grade alterations. The death
of any tree used for preservation credit shall require the owner to plant new
trees equal to the number of credited trees.
   (D)   Rate of credit. Credits shall be allowed at the rate of one canopy
tree for every three inches of circumference measured at four and one-half feet
above grade. Credits shall be subtracted from the total number of canopy and
understory trees required in the same planting yard where the tree is located.
In every case, however, there shall be at least one canopy tree for every 50
linear feet of street planting yard, existing or planted.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 6-3; Ord. passed 11-17-2011(1); Ord. passed 11-17-
2011(2))
**** SUPPLEMENTARY REQUIREMENTS ****
§ 151.210 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR INDIVIDUAL USES.
   (A)   Application of development standards. The development standards listed
herein are additional to other requirements in this chapter. These development
standards are use-specific and apply to those uses designated with a “D” in
Table 4 of this chapter. Uses requiring approval of a special use permit shall
also be subject to these standards and any additional standards or conditions
required by the special use permit.
   (B)   Standards for all uses. The following rules apply to all development
standards and uses listed below.
      (1)   Property separation. All measurements shall be made by drawing
straight lines from the nearest point of the lot line where the proposed use is
to be located to the lot line of the closest use (or zoned property) from which
the proposed use is to be separated.
      (2)   Use separation. All measurements shall be made by drawing straight
lines from the nearest point on the wall of a proposed or existing principal
building or edge of a proposed use to the nearest point on the wall of the
principal building from which the subject building is to be separated, unless
otherwise specified.
      (3)   Outdoor lighting. Outdoor lighting structures shall be located,
angled, shielded or limited in intensity so as to cast no direct light upon
adjacent property and to avoid the creation of a visual safety hazard to
passing motorists.
   (C)   Standards.
      (1)   Accessory dwelling units (on single-family lots). See Figure 27
below.
         (a)   Where required: AG, all residential, LO, GO-M and GO-
H Districts.
         (b)   General requirements:
            1.   The accessory dwelling unit and principal dwelling unit shall
have the same address;
            2.   No more than one accessory dwelling unit is permitted on the
same lot with a principal dwelling unit; and
            3.   No accessory dwelling unit shall be permitted on the same zone
lot with a two-family or multi-family dwelling or family care home.
         (c)   Accessory dwelling unit within a principal single-family
dwelling.
            1.   The principal building shall not be altered in anyway so as to
appear from a public or private street to be multi-family housing. Prohibited
alterations include, but are not limited to, multiple entranceways or multiple
mailboxes. Access to the accessory dwelling unit shall be by means of an
existing side or rear door, except where a new entrance is required by the
state’s Building Code. No new doorways or stairways to upper floors are
permitted if they are attached to the side of a building facing a public or
private street.
            2.   An accessory dwelling unit shall occupy no more than 25% of
the heated floor area of the principal building. The sum of all accessory uses
(including home occupations) in a principal building shall not exceed 25% of
the total floor area.
            3.   The minimum size of an accessory dwelling unit shall be 250
square feet.
            4.   The accessory dwelling unit shall have, water, sanitary sewer
and electrical utilities as part of the principal building.
         (d)   Detached accessory dwelling units:
            1.   A detached accessory dwelling unit may be:
               a.   A manufactured dwelling in zones which permit this use;
               b.   A dwelling unit which is part of an accessory detached
garage; or
               c.   A freestanding dwelling unit meeting the state’s Building
Code.
            2.   The detached accessory dwelling unit shall:
               a.   Have an approved sewage disposal connection or system;
               b.   Meet all setbacks applicable to the principal building;
               c.   Be erected behind and at least ten feet from the principal
building; and
               d.    Not exceed the maximum lot coverage when added to the
square footage of all accessory buildings on the lot.
Figure 27: Accessory Dwelling Units on Single- Family Lots (No Scale)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/becb2f9c6e5d0add85cd879a02d64c74e71e8c8f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-922.png]
         (e)   Minimum lot area.
            1.    When the detached accessory dwelling unit is part of an
accessory detached garage or is a freestanding accessory dwelling unit meeting
the state’s Building Code, the lot containing both the principal and accessory
dwelling units shall have one and one-half times the minimum lot area required
for the district.
            2.   When the detached accessory dwelling unit is a manufactured
dwelling, the lot containing both the principal and accessory dwelling units
shall have two times the minimum lot area required for the district in which
they are located.
         (f)   Size and type of accessory dwelling unit:
            1.   When the detached accessory dwelling unit is part of an
accessory detached garage or a freestanding accessory dwelling unit meeting the
state’s Building Code, the gross floor area of the accessory dwelling unit
shall be limited to the maximum of 50% of the gross floor are of the principal
building; and
            2.   When the detached accessory dwelling unit is a manufactured
dwelling, the principal dwelling unit shall be a Class AA double-wide
manufactured dwelling or a freestanding principal dwelling unit meeting the
state building code. (In no case shall a Class A or B manufactured dwelling be
accessory to another Class A or B manufactured dwelling.
      (2)   Adult-oriented establishment. Adult-oriented establishment
(principal or accessory use) including adult arcades, adult bookstores or adult
video stores, adult cabarets, adult massage parlors, adult motels, adult motion
picture theaters, adult theaters, escort agencies, nude model studios, sexual
encounter centers or any combination of these uses.
         (a)   Where required: GB District.
         (b)   Property separation: no adult-oriented establishment shall
locate within one thousand (2,000) feet of a church, public or private
elementary or secondary school, child day care center or nursery school public
park, residentially zoned property or municipal buildings and properties.
         (c)   Prohibition of sleeping quarters: except for an adult motel, no
adult- oriented establishment may have sleeping quarters.
         (d)   Restriction of uses on the same property or in the same
building: there shall not be more than one adult-oriented establishment in the
same building, structure or portion thereof. No other principal or accessory
use may occupy the same building, structure, property or portion thereof with
any adult-oriented establishment.
         (e)   Signs: except for business signs permitted by §§
151.145 through
151.155 of this chapter, promotional materials shall not be visible to the
public from sidewalks, walkways or streets.
      (3)   Agricultural production (livestock).
         (a)   Where required: RS-40, RS-30, RS-20, RS-15, RS-12 and HI
Districts.
         (b)   Setback: fencing shall meet §
151.211 of this chapter. Shelters for such animals shall meet the principal
structure setbacks for the district in which they are located.
         (c)   Minimum area: the minimum lot size shall be five acres.
      (4)   Advertising service, outdoor.
         (a)   Where required: GB and HE Districts.
         (b)   Outdoor storage: no outdoor storage of any materials related to
outdoor advertising shall be permitted.
      (5)   Agricultural chemicals, pesticides and fertilizers; agricultural
products; animal and animal products; farm supplies; flowers nursery stock and
florist supplies; forest products; grain and field beans; and livestock;
wholesale trade of.
         (a)   Where required: AG District.
         (b)   Use separation: all structures, buildings or enclosed areas,
used for the operation shall be a minimum of 100 feet from all property lines.
         (c)   Noise: equipment-producing noise or sound in excess of 70
decibels shall be located no closer than 100 feet to the nearest residence.
         (d)   Dust: all unpaved storage areas shall be maintained in a manner
which prevents dust from adversely impacting adjacent properties.
         (e)   Fencing: security fencing shall be provided around all outside
storage areas.
      (6)   Agricultural products, other, wholesale trade of. See division (C)
(5) above.
      (7)   Airports and flying fields.
         (a)   Airport and flying field, commercial (principal use).
            1.   Where required: PI District.
            2.   Minimum area: 50 acres for basic utility Stage 1 airport with
2,000-foot runway. More area is required for larger airports. Airport size and
layout shall conform to current FAA requirements.
            3.   Use separation: there shall be a minimum 300-foot distance
between airport property and the nearest residence.
            4.   Fencing: security fencing shall be provided sufficient to
control access to runways and taxiways. The fencing shall be a minimum six feet
in height.
         (b)   Flying field, private (accessory use).
            1.   Where required: AG, HI and PI Districts.
            2.   Minimum area: ten acres and/or airstrip size and layout shall
conform to current FAA requirements. The appropriate FAA permit(s) shall be
included with site plan submission.
            3.   Use separation: there shall be a minimum 300-foot distance
between the private flying field and the nearest existing residence.
      (8)   Ammunition, small arms.
         (a)   Where required: HI District.
         (b)   Use separation: no such facility shall locate within a 500-foot
radius of any residential or public-institutional zoning district.
         (c)   Security fencing: security fencing shall be provided along the
entire boundary of such a facility.
         (d)   Operation: the facility and its operation shall observe all fire
prevention and protection requirements.
      (9)   Amusement park.
         (a)   Where required: AG, HB, LI Districts.
         (b)   Minimum area: minimum lot size shall be five acres.
         (c)   Use separation: no buildings or structures, temporary or
otherwise, shall be located within 50 feet of any property line.
         (d)   Security fencing: security fencing, a minimum six feet in
height, shall be provided along the entire boundary of the park activities.
         (e)   Use separation: no amusement equipment, machinery or mechanical
device of any kind may be operated within 200 feet of any developed
residentially or public-institutionally zoned property.
      (10)   Animal feeder/breeder.
         (a)   Where required: AG District.
         (b)   Setback: all structures, buildings or enclosed areas, used for
housing of poultry, hogs, cattle or other livestock or animals being bred shall
be a minimum of 100 feet from all property lines.
         (c)   Operation: any violation of county health department regulations
concerning the operation of the feeder/breeder shall be considered a violation
of this chapter.
         (d)   Noise: mechanical equipment producing noise or sound in excess
of 70 decibels shall be located no closer than 100 feet to the nearest
residence.
      (11)   Animal services (other), kennels and pet grooming.
         (a)   Where required: GO-M, GO-H, LB, GB, HB, SC and CP Districts.
         (b)   Outside storage: pens and runs located outdoors are prohibited.
      (12)   Animal and animal products, other, wholesale trade of. See
division (C)(5) above.
      (13)   Asphalt plant.
         (a)   Where required: AG and HI Districts.
         (b)   Use separation: any asphalt plant, or other industrial
operations shall be located at least 50 feet from any property line.
         (c)   Security fencing: the asphalt operation shall be enclosed by a
non-climbable fence of at least six feet in height.
         (d)   Rehabilitation:
            1.   Within one year after the cessation of production, all
equipment and stock piles, incidental to such operation, shall be dismantled
and removed by and at the expense of the owner;
            2.   The site shall be drained to prevent the accumulation of
standing water, and channelization of the drainage shall be designed and
controlled so as not to cause erosion or silting of neighboring properties or
public drainageways, nor to appreciably increase the turbidity of any natural
watercourse, or to occlude any existing drainage course.
         (e)   Unpaved storage areas: all unpaved storage areas shall be
maintained in a manner so as to limit dust from leaving the storage area.
         (f)   Access:
            1.   Access roads leading to any part of the operation shall be
constructed with a gravel or asphalt stone surface and maintained in a dust-
free manner;
            2.   No part of such roads shall be located closer than 15 feet to
an external property line other than a limited access highway or railroad
right-of-way line; and
            3.   A truck route plan shall be submitted showing routes to and
from the site. Such routes shall be designed to minimize impacts on residential
areas, schools or other uses which will be negatively affected by truck
traffic.
      (14)   Athletic fields.
         (a)   Where required: AG, all Residential, LO and NB Districts.
         (b)   Access: all athletic fields shall have access to collector or
higher capacity street.
      (15)   Automotive towing and storage service.
         (a)   Where required: GB, HB, LI and HI Districts.
         (b)   Maximum automotive storage:
            1.   In the GB and HB Districts, no more than 20 motor vehicles
shall be stored on the premises at any one time;
            2.   In the LI District, no more than 100 motor vehicles shall be
stored on the premises at any one time; and
            3.   In the HI District, there is no maximum number.
         (c)   Screening: she automotive storage area must be screened with a
six-foot high opaque fence in addition to the required planting yard.
         (d)   Operation: no outdoor disassembly or salvaging shall be
permitted.
      (16)   Banks, savings and loan or credit unions.
         (a)   Where required: GO-M, GO-H and CP Districts.
         (b)   Maximum area: the total direct customer service floor space
shall not exceed 4,000 square feet.
         (c)   Drive-thru teller services: the point of service for window
tellers, remote tellers or automated teller machines (ATMs) shall be located no
closer than 75 feet to residentially-zoned property.
      (17)   Bars.
         (a)   Where required: GB, HR and SC Districts.
         (b)   Property separation: no such establishment shall be located
within 1,000 feet of a church, elementary or secondary school, public park,
municipal buildings and properties or residentially-zoned property.
         (c)   Frontage: the main entrance of the building shall be toward a
street zoned predominantly for non-residential uses.
         (d)   Screening: a minimum six-foot high opaque fence shall be erected
adjacent to the property line of abutting residences.
         (e)   Parking: parking areas related to the establishment shall be
located no closer than 30 feet to the property line of abutting residences.
      (18)   Barber shop, beauty shop.
         (a)   Where required: CP District.
         (b)   Operation: operated as an accessory use and limited to two
operators per establishment.
      (19)   Batting cages.
         (a)   Where required: HE, LI and HI Districts.
         (b)   Security fencing: fencing, netting or other control measures
shall be provided around the perimeter of the batting area to prevent balls
from leaving the designated area.
      (20)   Beauty shop. See division (C)(18) above.
      (21)   Beneficial fill area.
         (a)   Where required: all districts.
         (b)   Maximum area: two acres.
         (c)   Maximum duration: the beneficial fill area shall be in operation
no longer than one year.
      (22)   Billboards. Prohibited in the town.
      (23)   Building supply sales (with storage yard).
         (a)   Where required: GB, HB and SC Districts.
         (b)   Screening: all outside storage shall be completely screened from
view from all streets and adjacent residentially zoned property.
         (c)   Security fencing: security fencing, a minimum six feet in
height, shall be provided around all outside storage areas.
         (d)   Dust: all storage areas shall be maintained in a manner so as to
limit dust from drifting onto adjoining properties.
      (24)   Caretaker dwelling.
         (a)   Where required: AG and all Non-Residential Districts.
         (b)   Operation: a building permit for the principal building must be
obtained or principal use is engaged, prior to occupancy.
         (c)   Number: no more than one caretaker dwelling unit shall be
permitted per lot.
      (25)   Car wash.
         (a)   Where required: GB, HB and SC Districts.
         (b)   Use separation: building(s) shall be not less than 75 feet from
any interior side or rear property line which adjoins residentially or public-
institutionally zoned property.
         (c)   Screening: a minimum six-foot high opaque fence shall be
provided adjacent to all residentially-zoned property.
         (d)   Operation:
            1.   All washing operations shall be contained in a building;
            2.   Specific areas shall be provided for the manual drying,
waxing, polishing and vacuuming of automobiles and other motor vehicles when
these services are offered on the site.
These areas shall not conflict with on-site circulation patterns; and
            3.   Hours of operation shall be between 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
when adjoining developed residentially zoned property.
         (e)   Waste products: adequate provision shall be made for the safe
and efficient disposal of waste products.
      (26)   Cemetery/mausoleum.
         (a)   Where required: all districts.
         (b)   Minimum area: a minimum of three contiguous acres shall be
required to establish a cemetery or mausoleum not located on the same tract of
land as a church.
         (c)   Location: principal access must be from a collector street or
higher capacity street.
      (27)   Church.
         (a)   Where required: All residential districts.
         (b)   Location: within urban areas, church facilities located on sites
of three acres or more shall have direct access to a collector or higher
capacity street.
      (28)   Club or lodge.
         (a)   Where required: AG, all Residential and NB Districts.
         (b)   Location: except in the AG District, clubs and lodges shall have
direct access to a collector or higher capacity street.
      (29)   Computer sales.
         (a)   Where required: CP District.
         (b)   Maximum area: a maximum of 3,000 square feet of gross floor area
shall be permitted per establishment.
         (c)   Outside storage: no outside storage of materials shall be
permitted.
      (30)   Congregate care facility.
         (a)   Where required: RM-8, RM-12, RM-18, RM-26, GO-M, GO-H and PI
Districts.
         (b)   Operation:
            1.   The facility shall provide centrally located shared food
preparation, service and major dining areas;
            2.   Common recreation, social and service facilities shall be
provided at a minimum rate of 30 square feet per dwelling unit or per rooming
unit;
            3.   All facilities shall be solely for the use of residents and
their guests; and
            4.   Facilities for administrative services and limited medical
services for the exclusive use of the residents shall be located on the site.
         (c)   Density requirements:
            1.   Conversions of existing hotels or motels to a congregate care
facility shall be exempt from the density requirement of Table 4 of this
chapter; and
            2.   After 1-1-1994, a newly constructed congregate care facility
in the GO-M or GO-H District shall be exempt from the density requirements of
Table 5 of this chapter. The residential capacity of the facility shall be
determined by provisions of the state’s Building Code in conjunction with the
applicable setbacks, planting yards and minimum off-street parking requirements
of this chapter.
      (31)   Convenience store (with gasoline pumps).
         (a)   Where required: CP District.
         (b)   Maximum area: a maximum of 3,000 square feet of gross floor area
shall be permitted per establishment.
         (c)   Outside storage: no outside storage of materials shall be
permitted.
         (d)   Gasoline service islands/pumps: there shall be no more than one
gasoline service island containing no more than four gasoline pumps.
      (32)   Convenience store (without gasoline pumps).
         (a)   Where required: CP Districts.
         (b)   Maximum area: a maximum of 3,000 square feet of gross floor area
shall be permitted per establishment.
         (c)   Outside storage: no outside storage of materials shall be
permitted.
      (33)   Country club with golf course, swim and tennis club.
         (a)   Where required: AG, all Residential, GO-M, GO-H, HB, CP, LI and
PI Districts.
         (b)   Minimum area: the minimum area shall be two acres in addition to
the golf course(s). The minimum shall be one acre if located on common area
within a development.
         (c)   Use separation: 50-foot minimum distance between clubhouse,
swimming pool, lighted tennis court or athletic field and any adjacent
residentially-zoned property.
         (d)   Security fencing: outdoor swimming pools shall be protected by a
fence, or equal enclosure, a minimum four feet in height and equipped with a
self-closing and positive self-latching gate provided with hardware for
permanent locking.
      (34)   Day care center, child or adult.
         (a)   As a home occupation.
            1.   Defined: an adult or child day care center with five or fewer
attendees shall be operated as a home occupation and is subject to the
development standards for a home occupation.
            2.   Where required: all districts.
         (b)   As a principal use. An adult or child day care center with six
or more attendees shall be operated as a principal use and is subject to the
following development standards.
            1.   Where required: AG, RM-8, RM-12, RM-18, RM-26 and all Non-
Residential Districts, except HI.
            2.   Minimum area: an indoor activity area shall be provided
equivalent to at least 25 square feet per attendee.
            3.   Open space and recreation: an outdoor activity area shall be
provided equivalent to at least 75 square feet per attendee and located outside
of the street setback.
            4.   Security fencing: outdoor activity area(s) for children shall
be enclosed by a security fence at least four feet in height and located
outside the street setback.
            5.   Location: centers on a site greater than three acres shall
have frontage on a collector or thoroughfare street.
      (35)   Drugstore.
         (a)   Where required: CP District.
         (b)   Maximum area: a maximum of 3,000 square feet of gross floor area
shall be permitted per establishment.
         (c)   Outside storage: no outside storage of materials shall be
permitted.
      (36)   Elementary or secondary school.
         (a)   Where required: AG, all Residential and LO Districts.
         (b)   Access: all elementary or secondary schools shall have direct
access to a collector street or higher capacity street.
         (c)   Minimum area: all elementary or secondary schools shall be
located on a minimum of three acres.
      (37)   Equestrian facility.
         (a)   Where required: AG, RS-40 and PI Districts.
         (b)   Minimum area: minimum area required for an equestrian facility
to be established is 25 acres.
         (c)   Use separation: there shall be minimum 100-foot distance between
manure storage areas, barns or stables and any adjacent residentially zoned
property.
         (d)   Dust: all unpaved areas shall be maintained in a manner which
prevents dust from adversely impacting adjoining properties.
      (38)   Equipment repair, light.
         (a)   Where required: GB and HB Districts.
         (b)   Outside storage: outside storage is prohibited.
      (39)   Explosives.
         (a)   Where required: HI District.
         (b)   Property separation: no facility shall locate within 500 feet of
any residentially or public institutionally zoned property.
         (c)   Setbacks: buildings, including any accessory buildings for
storage of explosive raw materials and/or final products, shall be not less
than 150 feet from all property lines.
         (d)   Security fencing: security fencing, a minimum of eight feet in
height, shall be provided along the entire boundary of the facility.
         (e)   Operation: building(s) shall meet the requirements for hazardous
occupancy under the state’s Building Code.
      (40)   Farm supplies, other, wholesale trade of. See division (C)(5)
above.
      (41)   Flowers, nursery stock and florist supplies, wholesale trade of.
See division (C)(5) above.
      (42)   Forest products, wholesale trade of. See division (C)(5) above.
      (43)   Garden center or retail nursery.
         (a)   Where required: SC District.
         (b)   Outside storage: no outside storage of non-plant material shall
be permitted.
      (44)   Golf course.
         (a)   Where required: all Residential, HB, CP, LI and PI Districts.
         (b)   Use separation: 50-foot minimum distance between clubhouse or
other principal building(s) and any adjacent residentially-zoned property.
      (45)   Golf driving range.
         (a)   Where required: AG, HB, LI and HI Districts.
         (b)   Minimum area: the minimum lot depth from the tees to the end of
the driving area shall be 1,000 feet or the end shall be controlled with
netting and/or berms to prevent golf balls from leaving the property.
         (c)   Security fencing: fencing, netting, trees, berms or other
control measures shall be provided around the perimeter of the driving area so
as to prevent golf balls from leaving the driving area.
      (46)   Grain and field beans, wholesale trade of. See division (C)(5)
above.
      (47)   Group care facility.
         (a)   Where required: GO-M, GO-H and PI Districts.
         (b)   Property separation: no such facility shall be located within
one-half-mile of an existing group care facility.
         (c)   Operation: the facility shall be limited to not more than 30
persons.
      (48)   Home occupations (including renting of rooms).
         (a)   Where required: AG, all Residential, GO-M, GO-H and NB
Districts.
         (b)   Maximum area: area set aside for home occupation shall occupy no
more than 25% of the gross floor area of the dwelling unit.
         (c)   Outside storage: no outside storage or display of items
associated with the home occupation is permitted.
         (d)   Operation:
            1.   The home occupation must be conducted entirely within a
dwelling unit. It must be a use which is clearly incidental and secondary to
the use of the dwelling unit for residential purposes and does not change the
character of the residence. Home occupations are not permitted in a detached
garage or other accessory structure, except for accessory dwelling units;
            2.   Permitted home occupations include, but are not limited to:
typing services, telephone sales, barber/beauty services, doctor/dentist
office, architects, accountants, family day care (five or fewer persons), food
catering and handicrafting and the like;
            3.   No display, stock-in-trade, nor commodity sold not made on the
premises shall be permitted;
            4.   Only one person may be employed who is not an occupant of the
residence;
            5.   Activities shall not generate traffic, parking, noise,
vibration, glare, fumes, odors or electrical interference beyond what normally
occurs in the district in which it is located; and
            6.   Instruction in music, dancing, art or similar subjects shall
be limited to no more than five students at one time.
      (49)   Junked motor vehicle (as an accessory use).
         (a)   Where required: all districts.
         (b)   Screening:
            1.   AG District. Up to two vehicles meeting the definition of
“motor vehicle, junked” are allowed, but must be located behind the rear
building line of the principal building. All vehicles in excess of two vehicles
meeting the definition shall be enclosed within a building which meets the
dimensional requirements of the district;
            2.   Residential districts. Any vehicle meeting the definition of
“motor vehicle, junked” shall be enclosed within a building which meets the
dimensional requirements of the district in which it is located; and
            3.   Non-residential districts. Any vehicle meeting the definition
of “motor vehicle, junked” shall be stored, parked or placed on the property in
such a manner so as to be totally screened from view from any street and/or
from any adjacent residentially or public institutionally zoned property. Total
screening shall be effected by placement of the vehicle(s) either within or
behind a building and/or by plant materials, fences, berms or a combination
thereof with a minimum height of six feet.
      (50)   Kennels. See division (C)(11) above.
      (51)   Landfills, construction or demolition/land clearing and inert
debris.
         (a)   Construction or demolition debris landfill (C-D) - minor.
            1.   Where required: all districts.
            2.   Area, siting and location requirements:
               a.   Waste disposal area cannot exceed one acre and must be at
least four feet above the seasonal high ground water table;
               b.   The landfill must be located at least one-quarter mile from
any other landfill of any type; and
               c.   The perimeter of the landfill must be at least 50 feet from
the boundary of the property and 500 feet from the nearest existing drinking
water well at time of approval.
            3.   Closure and post closure:
               a.   Within 30 days of the completion or termination of
demolition activities, the landfill must be closed pursuant to G.S. § 130A-
301.2;
               b.   The site must be covered with at least two feet of
compacted earth, graded to minimize erosion and planted with suitable
vegetation;
               c.   No building may be build or located immediately above any
part of the landfill and no construction on any part of the site may in
initiated before the landfill is closed; and
               d.   The property owner is responsible for filing with the
County Registry and with the state’s Department of Environmental Quality survey
of the site and proper notice for disclosure purposes pursuant to G.S. §§ 47-30
and 130A-301.2.
         (b)   Land clearing and inert debris (LCID) landfill.
            1.   Land clearing and inert debris landfill (minor).
               a.   Where required: AG, LO, GOM, GOH, NB, LB, GB, HB, SC, CP,
LI, HI, and PI Districts
               b.   Maximum area: two acres.
               c.   Maximum duration: landfills are limited to a maximum period
of operation of three years from the date of issuance of the certificate of
occupancy by the county; provided that, the Planning Board may upon request
grant one or more three-year renewals. During consideration of a renewal
request, the applicant shall affirm and the Planning Board shall conclude that:
                  i.   The condition of the access drive to the landfill,
including, but not limited to, access at the junction of the driveway and the
public street, is in such a condition that vehicles can enter, maneuver and
exit the site safely;
                  ii.   Operation of the landfill has occurred consistent with
approved plans and specifications; and
                  iii.   The property is not under a notice of violation with
respect to provisions of this chapter.
               d.   Use separation: 100 feet minimum from any property line to
the edge of the fill area and 300 feet minimum from any residence not on the
same tract as the landfill.
               e.   Buffer: where possible a minimum 15-foot tree buffer shall
be retained around the exterior property line.
               f.   Access: access to the landfill shall be from a state
maintained paved road, provided that the Planning Board may grant a waiver to
the paving requirement upon reasonable conditions and shall be controlled with
gates, chains, fences, ditches and/or trees to prevent unregulated dumping.
               g.   Dust: all unpaved areas shall be maintained in a manner
which prevents dust from leaving the property.
               h.   Operation:
                  i.   No filling is permitted in the 100-year floodplain of
any stream. Filling to the edge of the 100-year floodplain is permitted only if
the back slope is stable and no steeper than three to one;
                  ii.   No filling is permitted in minor drainageways unless
the drainage has been piped or otherwise diverted in accordance with approved
plans;
                  iii.   No filling is permitted in utility easements, except
electrical transmission easements for 44kv or greater lines;
                  iv.   Landfill operations, including all activities
associated with the landfill, including, but not limited to, delivery of fill
materials or equipment, unloading of fill materials or equipment and on-site
preparation, cleanup or maintenance including covering activities shall not
commence prior to 7:00 a.m. and shall cease by 5:00 p.m.; except that,
operational hours may be extended in the event of natural or human-made events
that threaten immediate public health, safety and general welfare, as
determined by the Mayor or designee; and
                  v.   Prior to operation, the responsible party shall provide
a surety bond or irrevocable letter of credit to ensure that any active
landfill area will be closed in an approved fashion. The amount of the surety
bond or irrevocable letter of credit shall be determined based on the estimated
amount to properly close the landfill and the surety bond or letter of credit
shall be valid for as long as the landfill is operational, but not for a time
period exceeding three years. In the event a renewal is requested and granted
in accordance with division (C)(51)(b)1.c. above, a new surety bond or
irrevocable letter of credit and estimate shall be provided. Any estimate,
whether an initial estimate or one provided as part of a renewal, shall be
prepared and sealed by a professional engineer licensed to practice in the
state.
               i.   Closure: landfills shall be closed with a minimum of one-
foot of clean soil, graded to a maximum slope of three to one, and stabilized
with vegetation or by other approved means.
               j.   Applicability: landfills legally in operation prior to 11-
17-2011 shall be exempt from the provisions of divisions (C)(51)(b)1.h.iv. and
(C)(51)(b)1.h.v. above, including any request for renewal duly requested and
approved, provided the landfill maintains compliance with the plans and
specifications originally approved.
            2.   Land clearing and inert debris landfill (major).
               a.   Where required: AG and HI Districts.
               b.   Use separation: 100 feet minimum from any property line to
the edge of the fill area and 300 feet minimum from any residence not on the
same tract as the landfill.
               c.   Buffer: where possible a minimum 15-foot tree buffer shall
be retained around the exterior property line.
               d.   Access: access to the landfill shall be controlled with
gates, chains, fences, ditches and/or trees to prevent unregulated dumping.
               e.   Dust: all unpaved areas shall be maintained in a manner
which prevents dust from leaving the property.
               f.   Operation:
                  i.   No filling is permitted in the 100-year floodplain of
any stream. Filling to the edge of the 100-year floodplain is permitted only if
the back slope is stable and no steeper than three to one;
                  ii.   No filling is permitted in minor drainageways unless
the drainage has been piped or otherwise diverted in accordance with approved
plans;
                  iii.   No filling is permitted in utility easements, except
electrical transmission easements for 44kv or greater lines;
                  iv.   Landfill operations, including all activities
associated with the landfill, including but not limited to delivery of fill
materials or equipment, unloading of fill materials or equipment, and on-site
preparation, cleanup or maintenance including covering activities shall not
commence prior to 7:00 a.m. and shall cease by 5:00 p.m.; except that,
operational hours may be extended in the event of natural or human-made events
that threaten immediate public health, safety and general welfare, as
determined by the Mayor or designee; and
                  v.   Prior to operation, the responsible party shall provide
a surety bond or irrevocable letter of credit to ensure that any active
landfill area will be closed in an approved fashion. The amount of the surety
bond or irrevocable letter of credit shall be determined based on the estimated
amount to properly close the landfill and the surety bond or letter of credit
shall be valid for as long as the landfill is The estimate shall be prepared
and sealed by a professional engineer licensed to practice in the state.
               g.   Closure: landfills shall be closed with a minimum of one-
foot of clean soil, graded to a maximum slope of three to one and stabilized
with vegetation or by other approved means.
               h.   Applicability: these standards shall apply to all major
land clearing and inert debris landfills.
      (52)   Laundry or dry cleaning plant.
         (a)   Where required: LB and SC Districts.
         (b)   Maximum area: a maximum of 5,000 square feet of gross floor area
shall be permitted per establishment.
         (c)   Outside storage: no outside storage of materials shall be
permitted.
      (53)   Livestock, wholesale trade of. See division (C)(5) above.
      (54)   Manufactured dwelling park, recreational vehicle park.
         (a)   Where required:
            1.   Manufactured dwelling park: RM-5, RM-8, RM-12, RM-18 and RM-26
Districts.
            2.   Recreational vehicle park: HB Districts.
         (b)   General requirements: the following requirements apply to both
manufactured dwelling parks and recreational vehicle parks.
            1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct a new park or
to make an addition or alteration to an existing park, unless a site plan for
the park has been approved by the Technical Review Committee.
            2.   Compliance with §§
151.120 through
151.132 of this chapter. A manufactured dwelling park (but not a recreational
vehicle park) shall be considered a group development and be subject to all
procedures and standards of §§
151.120 through
151.132 of this chapter.
         (c)   Minimum tract area: five acres.
         (d)   Minimum and maximum number of spaces: at least 15 spaces but not
more than 300 spaces.
         (e)   Setback: all spaces shall be located a minimum of 100 feet from
all public rights-of ways and property lines.
         (f)   Number of homes and vehicles in each space: no more than one
manufactured home or recreational vehicle may be parked or set-up on any one
space.
         (g)   Access:
            1.   No space shall have direct vehicular access to a public
street;
            2.   All spaces shall directly abut a private street contained
within the park; and
            3.   Adequate access for shall be provided to each space, with a
minimum access width of 20 feet unless more is deemed necessary because of
topographical conditions or street curvature.
         (h)   Recreational areas and facilities:
            1.   Recreational areas and facilities to serve the needs of the
anticipated population within the manufactured home or recreational vehicle
park shall be provided and shall consist of at least the following:
               a.   A play lot for pre-school children containing a minimum
size of 1,200 square feet provided within 500 feet of every space; and
               b.   One or more playgrounds for school-age children and adults,
containing a minimum size of one acre per 100 spaces.
            2.   These recreation areas shall not be in an area utilized for
septic tank fields.
         (i)   Manufactured dwelling and recreational vehicle sales: the sales
of manufactured dwellings or recreational vehicles in the parks on a commercial
basis shall not be permitted
         (j)   Drainage and grading:
            1.   The spaces shall be located on ground with an elevation that
is not susceptible to flooding and which is graded to prevent any water from
ponding or accumulating on or around the manufactured home park. Where storm
drainage pipes are located in adjacent streets, underground drainage facilities
with connections to the storm drainage system shall be provided for the
manufactured home park;
            2.   Each space shall be graded and grassed to prevent erosion and
provide adequate storm drainage away from the manufactured home or recreational
vehicle pad;
            3.   The slope of the surface of the stand or pad shall not exceed
3%; and
            4.   No banks, except along drainage ditches, in the park shall
have a slope steeper than three feet to one foot.
         (k)   Garbage and refuse disposal:
            1.   Containers: all refuse shall be stored in conveniently located
and leak-proof containers with tight-fitting lids. Containers shall be provided
in sufficient number and capacity for proper storage of all refuse;
            2.   Storage racks or platforms: racks or concrete platforms shall
be provided on which to store containers for refuse. Dumpsters shall be
required in lieu of individual containers in areas where municipal water or
sewer are available. Such containers racks or platforms shall be so designed as
to prevent tipping, to minimize spillage and container deterioration and to
facilitate cleaning; and
            3.   Collection: all refuse shall be collected at least twice
weekly, or more often if the need is indicated.
         (l)   Registration: it shall be the duty of the operator to keep an
accurate register containing a record of all occupants. The register shall
contain the following information:
            1.   Name, address and space number of each occupant;
            2.   The date the manufactured dwelling or recreational vehicle
entered the park; and
            3.   The license number of each recreational vehicle and/or car,
truck and the like with state of issuance, make and type of vehicle. The
operator shall keep the register available at all times for inspection by the
Enforcement Officer, public health officials and other officials whose duties
necessitate acquisition of the information contained in the register.
         (m)   Park manager residence: a single-family detached dwelling may be
constructed for the manager of the park.
         (n)   Pre-existing dwellings: pre-existing dwellings on the site may
remain; provided, they occupy approved spaces.
      (55)   Manufactured dwelling park requirements. The following design
requirements apply only to manufactured dwelling parks.
         (a)   Minimum manufactured dwelling space size: a manufactured
dwelling space shall consist of a minimum of 6,000 square feet and shall have a
width of at least 45 feet at the location of the manufactured dwelling stand.
Exception: a manufactured dwelling space not served by public sewer shall
consist of a minimum of 40,000 square feet and shall have a width of least 150
feet at the location of the manufactured dwelling stand. Every manufactured
dwelling space shall be clearly established on the ground by permanent
monuments or markers.
         (b)   Each manufactured dwelling space shall contain:
            1.   A manufactured dwelling stand consisting of a properly graded
and compacted surface no less than 13 feet by 60 feet;
            2.   A patio space constructed of concrete, brick, flagstone or
other hard surface material a minimum of 240 square feet in area; and
            3.   A hard surface walkway a minimum of two feet wide leading from
the patio to the parking space or road. See Figure 28 below.
         (c)    Manufactured dwelling additions: prefabri cated structures
specific ally designed by the manufac turer for manufac tured dwelling extensio
ns and any other addition meeting the state’s Building Code may be added to any
manufactured dwellin g; provided that, setback within the space can be met and
a building permit is obtained from the jurisdiction.
Figure 28: Typical Manufactured Dwelling Space (No Scale)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/becb2f9c6e5d0add85cd879a02d64c74e71e8c8f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-924.png]
 
         (d)   Construction and design of private streets:
            1.   Private entrance, collector and interior streets with no
parking or minor or cul-de-sac streets with no parking shall meet the minimum
design standards of §§
151.120 through
151.132 of this chapter;
            2.   One-way minor streets with no parking (acceptable only if less
than 500 feet total length and serving less than 15 manufactured dwelling
stands) shall have a 20-foot minimum common area with 12-foot minimum paved
surface; and
            3.   The private streets shall be lighted at night with no less
than two foot-candles of light measured at a height of five feet from the
ground along the entire length of the street or drive center line.
         (e)   Park access: if a manufactured dwelling park has more than one
direct access to a public street, such access points shall be no less than 200
feet apart and no closer than 300 feet to a public street intersection.
         (f)   Parking:
            1.   Two parking spaces, nine feet by 19 feet shall be provided
within each manufactured dwelling space;
            2.   All parking spaces shall be paved or covered with four inches
of crushed stone; and
            3.   No parking will be allowed on private entrance and collector
streets.
         (g)   Landscaping: landscaping shall be provided throughout the park
with ample trees and shrubs to provide shade and break up open areas. All banks
and open areas shall be grassed.
         (h)   Removal of rubbish: all cut or fallen trees, stumps or rubbish
shall be completely burned or removed from the mobile home park.
         (i)   Utilities installation: each manufactured dwelling located
within a park shall comply with the current state regulations for manufactured
dwelling in both manufacture and installation and must be inspected to assure
compliance prior to occupancy.
            1.   All utilities shall be installed underground, except where
extreme conditions of topography make this requirement unreasonable.
            2.   Placement of utilities serving the mobile home stand shall
comply with the state’s Building Code for plumbing.
            3.   Minimum electrical service of 200 ampere, 120-240 volt single
phase shall be provided to each manufactured dwelling stand. The service panel
and location as well as all wiring shall be in accordance with the National
Electrical Code.
            4.   Each manufactured dwelling shall be required to connect to the
utilities provided at each manufactured dwelling space.
            5.   Each manufactured dwelling park shall obtain water from a
public water supply when available, and when unavailable, from a source
approved by the county’s Health Department. The water supply and pressure shall
be adequate for the park requirements. Water for drinking, cooking, laundry and
general sanitary uses for each individual manufactured dwelling shall be
obtained only from faucets or other plumbing connections located within each
manufactured dwelling.
            6.   Each manufactured dwelling park shall be provided with an
adequate sewage disposal system, either by connection to a public sewer or a
septic tank constructed in compliance with the regulations of the county’s
Board of Health. All sewage wastes from toilets, showers, bathtubs, lavatories,
wash basins, refrigerator drains, sinks, faucets and water-using appliances not
herein mentioned shall be piped into the manufactured dwelling park sewage
disposal system.
         (j)   Fuel oil drum: each manufactured dwelling that requires the use
of fuel oil shall be furnished with an oil drum having a minimum capacity of
150 gallons, set upon a painted, prefabricated metal stand.
      (56)   Recreation vehicle park (RVP) regulations. The following design
requirements apply only to recreation vehicle parks.
         (a)   Minimum space requirements:
            1.   Each recreational vehicle space shall consist of a minimum of
2,000 square feet; and
            2.   Each recreational vehicle space shall be designated on the
ground by permanent markers or monuments.
         (b)   Setbacks: all structures, buildings and sewage facilities shall
meet the setbacks requirement for the district in which they are located.
         (c)   Roads and drives:
            1.   The RVP shall have all-weather roads and driveways that
directly abut all spaces; and
            2.   Entrance and circulation drives must meet the minimum design
standards of §§
151.120 through
151.132 of this chapter.
         (d)   Parking: parking space sufficient to accommodate at least one
automobile and camping vehicle shall be constructed within each space and shall
be paved.
         (e)   Installation, alteration and use of utilities:
            1.   The installation, alteration or use of all utilities
including, but not limited to, electrical service, plumbing fixtures and sewage
disposal systems shall conform with all applicable codes;
            2.   Water supply:
               a.   A safe, adequate and conveniently located water supply must
be provided for each park in compliance with applicable regulations; and
               b.   Areas around faucets or drinking fountains shall be
properly drained.
            3.   Sanitary facilities:
               a.   Each park shall have a central structure or structures that
will provide separate toilet and bathing facilities for both sexes;
               b.   The minimum number of facilities per sex to be provided
shall follow the schedule below:
 
Table 28: Bathroom Facilities
Lavatories 1 per 15 spaces
Showers    1 per 15 spaces
Toilets    1 per 15 spaces
Urinals    1 per 30 spaces (male facilities only)
 
               c.   All toilet, shower, lavatory and laundry facilities shall
be provided and maintained in a clean, sanitary condition and kept in good
repair at all times. They shall be safely and adequately lighted. Facilities
shall be easily accessible to all persons and conveniently located.
            4.   Sewage disposal: each park shall provide a sewage dumping
station. In accordance with County Health Department regulations, all sewage
wastes from the park, including waste from toilets, showers, bathtubs,
lavatories, wash basins, refrigerator drains, sinks, faucets and water-using
appliances not herein mentioned, shall be piped into the park’s sewage disposal
system approved by the county’s Health Department.
         (f)   Insect and rodent control measures: insect and rodent control
measures to safeguard the public health and comfort shall be practiced for all
uses, structures and the like used in the park.
         (g)   Retail sales: the recreational vehicle park may contain a retail
sales counter and/or coin operated machines for the park residents’ use only;
provided, they are completely enclosed within a structure and there is no
exterior advertising.
         (h)   Permanent sleeping quarters: permanent sleeping quarters shall
not be permitted within the park for guests.
         (i)   Manufactured dwellings in recreational vehicle parks: it shall
be unlawful for a person to park or store a manufactured dwelling in a
recreational vehicle park; except that, one manufactured dwelling may be
located within the park for exclusive use as the dwelling quarters for the park
manager or operator. Such a manufactured dwelling shall be located in an area
designated on the site plan and approved by the Technical Review Committee.
      (57)   Market showrooms.
         (a)   Where required: GB and HB Districts.
         (b)   Display area: display areas shall exist within permanent
buildings only.
      (58)   Migrant labor housing.
         (a)   Where required: AG District.
         (b)   Minimum area: each site shall contain not less than two acres of
land. An additional 2,000 square feet of land shall be required for each worker
in excess of 20 people.
         (c)   Setback:
            1.   Minimum required front yard shall be 100 feet; and
            2.   Minimum required interior yard shall be 50 feet.
         (d)   Building area: rooms or compartments for sleeping shall contain
not less than 39 square feet of floor space for each person.
         (e)   Health and safety:
            1.   Not more than ten people shall be housed in any one room or
compartment for sleeping purposes;
            2.   Separate toilet and shower facilities shall be provided for
male and female workers. A minimum of one toilet and one shower shall be
provided for each ten workers;
            3.   A laundry room shall be required with one wash sink of at
least ten gallons’ capacity for each ten workers. Adequate clothes drying lines
shall be provided;
            4.   Dining and food service facilities shall be provided and shall
contain at least 12 square feet of floor space per worker and shall be approved
by the county’s Health Department;
            5.   All water, sewer and sanitary facilities shall be approved by
the county’s Health Department;
            6.   All garbage and refuse shall be stored in water-tight and fly-
tight receptacles and it shall be the responsibility of the owner of the
property to ensure that all garbage and refuse is regularly disposed of in a
sanitary manner acceptable to the county’s Health Department; and
            7.   Class C manufactured dwellings used as migrant labor housing
as part of a bona fide farm operation must be certified as housing for migrant
labor in accordance with Department of Labor regulations.
      (59)   Mining and quarrying.
         (a)   Where required: HI District.
         (b)   Use separation:
            1.   The edges of any pit where a mining operation is taking place
and any equipment used in the processing of rock and gravel, any asphalt plant
or other industrial uses operated in conjunction with the mine or quarry shall
be located at least 50 feet from any property line; and
            2.   Where the mining operation site is bounded by a railroad
right-of-way currently being used for rail service to the mining operation, no
setback shall be required between the railroad right-of-way and such operation.
         (c)   Security fencing:
            1.   The mining operation shall be enclosed by a non-climbable
fence of at least six feet in height; and
            2.   Abandoned locations shall have a fence of at least six feet in
height around the perimeter of the site.
         (d)   Rehabilitation:
            1.   Within one year after the cessation of production at all
mining operations, all equipment and stock piles, incidental to such operation,
shall be dismantled and removed by and at the expense of the owner;
            2.   Except in a case where redevelopment for another permitted use
is in progress on the site of an abandoned extractive operation, all
excavations shall be graded to reduce the surface to gently rolling topography
in substantial conformity to the land area immediately surrounding; and shall
be planted with a cover of sod, trees, shrubs, legumes or grasses, which will
minimize erosion due to wind or rainfall; and
            3.   The site shall be drained to prevent the accumulation of
standing water, and channelization of the drainage shall be designed and
controlled so as not to cause erosion or silting of neighboring properties or
public ways, nor to appreciably increase the turbidity of any natural
watercourse, or to occlude any existing drainage course.
         (e)   Noise: all operations involving blasting discernible beyond the
external property line on a quarry shall only be conducted between the hours of
7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
         (f)   Dust: all non-paved storage areas shall be maintained in a
manner so as to limit dust from leaving the storage area.
         (g)   Access:
            1.   Access roads leading to any part of the operation shall be
constructed with a gravel or crushed stone surface and maintained in a dust-
free manner;
            2.   No part of such roads shall be located closer than 15 feet to
an external property line other than a limited access highway or railroad
right-of-way line; and
            3.   A truck route plan shall be submitted showing truck routes to
and from the site. Such routes shall be designed to minimize impacts on
residential areas, schools or other uses which will be negatively affected by
truck traffic.
      (60)   Mixed development.
         (a)   Where required: GB, HB, SC and CP Districts.
         (b)   Location of residential use: no residential use(s) shall be
permitted on or below the ground floor.
         (c)   Percentage of mix: where residential and non-residential uses
are mixed in a principal building, at least 20% of the gross floor area shall
be devoted to the permitted non- residential office and/or commercial use(s).
         (d)   Dimensional requirements: any building must conform to the non-
residential dimensional requirements of the district in which it is located.
      (61)   Newsstand.
         (a)   Where required: CP District.
         (b)   Maximum area: a maximum of 3,000 square feet of gross floor area
shall be permitted per establishment.
         (c)   Outside storage: no outside storage of materials shall be
permitted.
      (62)   Optical goods sales.
         (a)   Where required: GO-M and GO-H Districts.
         (b)   Maximum area: a maximum of 3,000 square feet of gross floor area
shall be permitted per establishment.
      (63)   Pet grooming. See division (C)(11) above.
      (64)   Petroleum and petroleum products.
         (a)   Where required: HI District.
         (b)   Use separation:
            1.   Storage tanks protected by either an attached extinguishing
system approved by the Fire Marshal or an approved floating roof shall not be
located closer to an exterior property line than a distance equal to the
greatest dimension of either diameter or height of the tank; except that, such
distance need not exceed 120 feet;
            2.   Storage tanks not equipped as indicated in division (C)(64)
(b)1. above shall not be located any closer to an exterior property line than a
distance equal to one and one-half times the greater dimension of either the
diameter or height of the tank; except that, such distance need not exceed 175
feet; and
            3.   Storage tanks and loading facilities shall be located a
minimum of 500 feet from any existing residence or residentially zoned
property.
         (c)   Access: gravel or paved roadways shall be provided to all
storage tanks.
         (d)   Security fencing: security fencing, a minimum of six feet in
height, shall be provided along the entire boundary of such facilities.
         (e)   Dikes:
            1.   Tanks or groups of tanks shall be diked to prevent the spread
of liquid onto other property, waterways or drainageways. The volumetric
capacity of the diked area shall not be less than the capacity of the largest
tank within the diked area;
            2.   Dikes or retaining walls shall be of earth, steel, concrete or
solid masonry designed and constructed to be liquid tight and to withstand a
full hydraulic head. Earthen dikes three feet or more in height shall have a
flat section at the top not less than two feet in width. The slope shall be
consistent with the angle or repose of the material of which the dikes are
constructed. Dikes shall be restricted to an average height of not more than
six feet above the exterior grade unless means are available for extinguishing
a fire in any tank. Dikes enclosing such tanks shall be provided at the top
with a flareback section designed to turn back a boil-over wave. A flareback
section shall not be required for dikes and walls enclosing approved floating
roof tanks. No loose combustible material, empty or full drums or barrels,
shall be permitted within the diked area; and
            3.   Where provision is made for draining rain water from diked
areas, such drains shall normally be kept closed and shall be so designed that
when in use they will not permit flammable liquids to enter natural
watercourses, public sewers or public drains. Where pumps control drainage from
the diked area, they shall not be self-starting.
         (f)   Tank maintenance:
            1.   All storage tanks shall be maintained in a leak-proof
condition with an adequately painted, rust-free exterior surface; and
            2.   A firm substrate shall be constructed under each storage area
to eliminate differential subsidence and to prevent the product from seeping.
         (g)   Operation: the product shall be sold in the same form as
received and shall not be altered; except that, two or more products may be
blended. Any other alteration of the product shall be deemed a manufacturing
use, requiring approval of a special use permit.
         (h)   Storage: all storage facilities shall comply with the latest
edition of the “Flammable and Combustible Liquids Code, NEPA 30” of the
National Fire Protection Association.
      (65)   Private dormitory.
         (a)   Where required: RM-18, RM-26, GO-M and GO-H Districts.
         (b)   Use separation: the property on which the use is located shall
be within a one-half mile radius of property developed as the primary campus of
a college, business college, trade school or university.
         (c)   Density requirements:
            1.   Conversions of existing hotels or motels to a private
dormitory shall be exempt from the density requirement of
Table 5 of this chapter; and
            2.   After 1-1-1994, a newly constructed private dormitory in the
GO-M or GO-H District shall be exempt from the density requirements of
Table 5 of this chapter. The residential capacity of the facility shall be
determined by provisions of the state’s Building Code in conjunction with the
applicable setbacks, planting yards and minimum off-street parking requirements
of this chapter.
      (66)   Public park; public recreation facility.
         (a)   Where required: all districts.
         (b)   Parking: overflow parking (in addition to required parking) must
be designated on the site plan and be kept available to handle all traffic from
special events such as softball tournaments and outdoor concerts.
         (c)   Access: all parks greater than ten acres shall have primary
access to a collector or higher capacity street.
      (67)   Public recreational facility. See division (C)(66) above.
      (68)   Radio, television, communication tower (principal).
         (a)   Where required: AG, GB, GO-M, GO-H, HB, CP, LI, HI and PI
Districts.
         (b)   Location:
            1.   In the GO-M, GO-H, HB, CP, LI, HI and PI Districts, the tower
shall be a minimum of 100 feet from any residentially zoned property; and
            2.   In the AG District, the distance of the nearest portion of the
tower to any existing residence or RM or RS zoned property shall be one and
one-half times the height of the tower for unguyed freestanding towers; or for
guyed towers, the area necessary to contain all guy wires and appurtenances
plus the district’s required setback for guyed towers.
         (c)   Landscaping: where adjacent to RM or RS zoned property, the
required planting yard shall be landscaped at a Type A planting rate.
         (d)   General:
            1.   Guy wires, anchors and supporting cables shall be contained on
the same zone lot with the tower and shall not encroach more than one-half the
width of the planting yard;
            2.   The lot shall be of sufficient size to accommodate the
intended use and the planting yard if required;
            3.   The provisions of §
151.103 of this chapter regarding special purpose lots may be applied;
            4.   New towers shall be permitted only if there is no prudent or
feasible method to share an existing tower. No triangular platforms greater
than 15 feet on a side shall be permitted. Triangular or T-bar platforms shall
not be permitted if mounting of required antennas can be accomplished without
such platforms;
            5.   Any existing tower or any tower approved for erection on or
before the effective date of this amendment is exempt from non-conforming use
of land and non-conforming structure provisions in §
151.078 of this chapter; and
            6.   Within scenic corridor setback shall be two times the height
of the town from the road right-of-way.
      (69)   Recreational vehicle park. See division (C)(56) above.
      (70)   Recycling processing centers.
         (a)   Where required: LI District.
         (b)   Use separation: no such facility shall locate within a 500-foot
radius of any residentially or public-institutionally zoned property.
         (c)   Outside storage: no outside storage of materials shall be
permitted.
         (d)   Operation: the facility shall be operated in a wholly enclosed
building; except that, loading to a flatbed railcar may take place outside the
building provided no materials remain on the loading area for more that 24
hours.
         (e)   Dust: all unpaved areas shall be maintained in a manner which
prevents dust from adversely impacting adjacent properties.
      (71)   Refrigerator or large appliance repair.
         (a)   Where required: GB and HB Districts.
         (b)   Outdoor storage: no outdoor storage of appliances, equipment or
parts shall be permitted.
      (72)   Restaurant (no drive thru).
         (a)   Where required: LB District.
         (b)   Maximum area: a maximum of 3,000 square feet of gross floor area
shall be permitted per establishment.
         (c)   Outside storage: no outside storage of materials shall be
permitted.
      (73)   Rural family occupation. See Figure 29 below.
         (a)   Where required: AG District.
         (b)   Minimum area:
            1.   The rural family occupation (RFO) must be located on a tract
of two acres or more; and
            2.   A portion of the tract measuring 40,000 square feet with 150
feet of width must be designated and reserved as exclusively residential.
         (c)   Maximum area: the total floor area of all buildings occupied by
the RFO shall not exceed 5,000 square feet. The total land area that may be
used in conjunction with the rural family occupation is 15,000 square feet.
         (d)   Use separation: all operations of the RFO shall observe a 100-
foot setback from all property lines.
         (e)   Location: all operations of the RFO shall be located behind the
rear line of the building occupied as the principal residence.
         (f)   Landscaping: all operation of the RFO, including buildings,
outside storage areas and parking shall be treated as a separate use and
subject to the landscaping provisions of this chapter.
         (g)   Environmental review: the county’s Environmental Health Division
shall evaluate each RFO request to determine the occupation’s impact on the
surrounding area with respect to excessive noise, dust, air emissions, odors
and surface or ground water discharge. The RFO shall mitigate the impact of
these and other environmental concerns. A written evaluation of these potential
impacts is required by the Environmental Health Division prior to the
consideration of any request for an RFO.
Figure 29: Rural Family Occupation (No Scale)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/becb2f9c6e5d0add85cd879a02d64c74e71e8c8f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-926.png]
 
         (h)    Operation:
            1.    The RFO must be owned by the landowner who must reside on the
property;
            2.    No more than five persons shall be employed other than those
residing on the property;
            3.   There shall be no more than two commercial vehicles operating
in and out of the property;
            4.   The RFO shall not be operated between the hours of 9:00 p.m.
to 6:00 a.m.; and
            5.   Permitted uses shall be limited to those products assembled or
manufactured on-site for resale elsewhere, services sold or provided on
premises or stock-in-trade clearly incidental to such services. Commercial
retail or wholesale operations which bring to the site goods specifically for
the purpose of resale shall be prohibited.
      (74)   Salvage yards, auto parts and scrap processing.
         (a)   Where required: AG and HI Districts.
         (b)   Minimum area: the minimum area required to establish a salvage
yard shall be five acres.
         (c)   Outside storage: an approved opaque fence of uniform
construction not less than six feet in height shall be required around the
perimeter of the activity. Such fencing shall be located between the salvage
yard and the required planting yards.
         (d)   On-site supervision: the facility operator(s) shall provide
continuous on-site supervision by an employee(s) and/or volunteer(s) during the
hours of operation.
         (e)   Use separation: no salvage yard, scrap processor or auto
wrecking shall be located within 300 feet of any residence existing or under
construction at the time of installation of such operation or business.
      (75)   Satellite dish/communication tower (accessory).
         (a)   Where required: all districts.
         (b)   Location:
            1.   All supporting cables and anchors shall be contained on the
property;
            2.   In residential districts, structures shall not be located or
placed in any street yard or side yard; and
            3.   Attached and detached satellite dishes 18 inches in diameter
or less shall be exempt from the requirements of division (C)(75)(b)2. above.
Detached satellite dishes 18 inches in diameter or less shall not exceed six
feet in height and shall not be located within 15 feet of any public or private
street right-of-way or private lane.
      (76)   Shelter for the homeless.
         (a)   Where required: GO-M, GO-H, GB, HB, LI, HI and PI Districts.
         (b)   Property separation no such facility shall be located within
one-quarter mile of an existing shelter for the homeless.
         (c)   Minimum floor area: a minimum floor space of 50 square feet
shall be provided for each individual sheltered.
         (d)   Operation:
            1.   The facility shall be contained within the building of and
operated by a government agency or non-profit organization; and
            2.   The facility operator(s) shall provide continuous on-site
supervision by an employee(s) and/or volunteer(s) during the hours of
operation.
      (77)   Shoe repair or shoeshine shop.
         (a)   Where required: CP District.
         (b)   Maximum area: a maximum of 3,000 square feet of gross floor area
shall be permitted per establishment.
         (c)   Outside storage: no outside storage of materials shall be
permitted.
      (78)   Shooting range (indoor).
         (a)   Where required: AG, GB, HB, LI and HI Districts.
         (b)   Noise: the facility shall be designed to absorb sound to the
maximum extent feasible.
      (79)   Shooting range (outdoor).
         (a)   Where required: AG and PI Districts.
         (b)   Use separation: separation shall be a minimum 300 feet between
range and closest exterior property line.
         (c)   Access: controlled to prevent unregulated entrance to firing
area.
         (d)   Security fencing: security fencing to prevent an individual from
crossing the property downrange.
         (e)   Dikes (berms): dikes shall be of sufficient height and thickness
to stop all rounds fired downrange. Elevation control is required along the
shooting stands to prevent rounds from being fired over the berm.
      (80)   Single-room occupancy residence.
         (a)   Where required: RM-8, RM-12, RM-18, RM-26, GO-M, GO-H and PI
Districts.
         (b)   Minimum area: rooming units shall be a minimum of 70 square feet
with an additional minimum of 50 square feet for each additional occupant.
         (c)   Minimum common area: the building shall contain common space
such as recreation areas, lounges, living rooms, dining rooms or other
congregate living spaces at a rate of five square feet per rooming unit, but
totaling not less than 250 square feet. Bathrooms, laundries, hallways, the
main lobby, vending areas and kitchens shall not be counted as common space.
         (d)   Operation: on-site management shall be provided on a 24-hour
basis.
         (e)   Density requirements:
            1.   Conversions of existing hotels or motels to a single room
occupancy residence shall be exempt from the density requirement of
Table 5 of this chapter;
            2.   After 1-1-1994, a newly constructed single room occupancy
residence in the GO-M or GO-H District shall be exempt from the density
requirements of
Table 5 of this chapter. The residential capacity of the facility shall be
determined by provisions of the state’s Building Code in conjunction with the
applicable setbacks, planting yards and minimum off-street parking requirements
of this chapter.
      (81)   Sports instructional schools.
         (a)   Where required: SC District.
         (b)   Location of instruction: no outside instruction shall be
allowed.
      (82)   Swim and tennis club. See division (C)(35) above.
      (83)   Swimming pools.
         (a)   Where required: all districts.
         (b)   Use separation:
            1.   Pools shall be located so as to comply with the minimum
setback requirement for accessory structures for the district in which it is
located; and
            2.   Pools which are not an integral part of the principal building
shall be located a minimum of ten feet from the principal building.
         (c)   Security fencing: swimming pools located outdoors shall be
protected by a fence, or equal enclosure four feet in height and equipped with
a self-closing and positive self-latching gate provided with hardware for
permanent locking.
      (84)   Tourist home (bed and breakfast).
         (a)   Where required: AG, all Residential Districts, NB and LB
Districts.
         (b)   Use separation: no such facility shall locate within 400 feet of
a rooming house, boarding house or another tourist home.
         (c)   Operation:
            1.   The tourist home must be owned by the landowner who also
resides on the property;
            2.   The use shall be located in a structure which was originally
constructed as a dwelling; and
            3.   Meals served on the premise shall be only for guests of the
facility.
      (d)   Signs: there shall be no exterior advertising; except that, which
is permitted for a home occupation.
      (85)   Truck stops.
         (a)   Where required: HB District.
         (b)   Maximum area: the maximum area shall be for four acres.
         (c)   Lighting: the maximum height of any outdoor lighting source or
structure shall be 30 feet.
         (d)   Screening: a minimum six-foot high opaque fence shall be
provided adjacent to residentially zoned property.
      (86)   Turkey shoots.
         (a)   Where required: AG District.
         (b)   Setbacks:
            1.   No turkey shoot shall be allowed within a required setback;
            2.   All turkey shoots shall be established with the line of fire
perpendicular to and away from a road right-of-way. The line of fire is a line
which passes through the firing point and bisects the target. The back stop or
target area shall be located not less than 500 feet from the road right-of-way;
            3.   Sites adjacent to more than one road right-of-way must
designate the higher classified road as the front, and set the line of fire
perpendicular thereto. Any resultant line of fire parallel to a road must be a
minimum distance of 200 feet from and parallel to the road right-of-way; and
            4.   All backstops shall be constructed a minimum of 500 feet from
a residence located to the rear and/or side of the backstop.
         (c)   Parking: an off-street parking area adequate in size to store
two cars for every back stop shall be provided.
         (d)   Operation:
            1.   Backstops shall be constructed of a material that will allow
the shot to penetrate and not pass through. It shall be of a minimum thickness
of two feet and maintained at a height of four feet above the target;
            2.   The firearms used in turkey shoots shall be limited to
shotguns firing shot no larger than number eight. No firearms may be used which
have been altered from manufacturer’s specifications;
            3.   The operators of the turkey shoot shall be responsible for
maintaining adequate fire protection by notifying the local fire department as
to the dates and times of the turkey shoot;
            4.   Turkey shoots shall be limited to Thursdays, Fridays and
Saturdays and be in operation no later than 11:00 p.m.; and
            5.   Provisions for sanitation and refuse disposal must be made in
accordance with health standards.
         (e)   Event permit: the Enforcement Officer shall issue an event
permit not to exceed 90 days in a given year for a qualifying turkey shoot.
      (87)   Utility substations including transformer stations, telephone
exchanges, repeater stations, pressure regulator stations, pump and lift
stations and similar structures.
         (a)   Where required: all districts.
         (b)   Dimensional requirements: all buildings shall be considered
accessory buildings or structures.
         (c)   Noise: equipment producing noise or sound in excess of 70
decibels shall be located no closer than 100 feet to the nearest residence.
         (d)   Security fencing: security fencing, a minimum of six feet in
height, shall be provided around the entire facility.
         (e)   Outside storage: if the facility has no outside storage or
placement of materials or equipment the land use classification (LUC) shall be
considered a one, otherwise the LUC shall be considered a four.
      (88)   Temporary family health care structure.
         (a)   Where required: all districts where detached single-family
dwellings are permitted (AG, RS and RM Districts, LO, GO-M, GO-H and NB
Districts).
         (b)   Accessory to a single-family detached dwelling: one temporary
family health care structure shall be permitted as an accessory to an existing
principle single-family detached dwelling on the lot. The caregiver shall
obtain a permit, which shall be valid for one-year and renewed annually as long
as the structure remains on the lot; and shall provide necessary documentation
to show compliance with this section. Fees shall not exceed $100 for the
initial permit or $50 for renewal.
         (c)   Temporary family health care structure shall:
            1.   Contain no more than 300 gross square feet;
            2.   Not be installed on a permanent foundation;
            3.   Be connected to water, sewer, or electric utilities serving
the lot;
            4.   Be occupied by one mentally or physically impaired person;
            5.   Comply with setback requirements applicable to the principle
dwelling; and
            6.   Comply with applicable state building code and G.S. § 140-
139.1(b).
         (d)   Caregiver: the caregiver shall reside in the principle single-
family detached dwelling and must be a first or second degree relative of the
mentally or physically impaired person.
         (e)   Signage: no exterior signage advertising or otherwise promoting
the temporary health care structure is allowed on any structure or the
property.
         (f)   Removal of structure:
            1.   The temporary family health care structure shall be removed
within 60 days in which the mentally or physically impaired person is no longer
receiving or in need of the assistance as provided for in this section; and
            2.   If the temporary family health care structure is needed for
another mentally or physically impaired person, it may continue to be used or
may be reinstated on the lot within 60 days of removal.
      (89)   Veterinary service (other).
         (a)   Where required: GO-M, GO-H, LB, GB, HB, SC and CP Districts.
         (b)   Outside storage: pens and runs located outdoors are prohibited.
      (90)   Warehouse (general storage/enclosed).
         (a)   Where required: GB and HB Districts.
         (b)   Maximum area: a maximum of 10,000 square feet of gross floor
area shall be permitted for warehouse or wholesaling per establishment per lot.
         (c)   Outdoor storage: no outdoor storage of warehousing or
wholesaling items is permitted.
         (d)   Land use classification: warehousing or wholesaling uses shall
have a land use classification of three.
      (91)   Warehouse (self-storage).
         (a)   Where required: GB and HB Districts.
         (b)   Minimum size: minimum lot size shall be two acres.
         (c)   Maximum size: maximum lot size shall be five acres.
         (d)   Lot coverage: the total ground area covered by buildings shall
not exceed 50% of the site.
         (e)   Maximum height: maximum height of building(s) shall be 20 feet.
         (f)   Storage:
            1.   No outside storage shall be permitted; and
            2.   Storage of hazardous, toxic or explosive substances shall be
prohibited.
         (g)   Operation:
            1.   No business activity other than the rental of storage units
shall be conducted on the premises; and
            2.   One residential dwelling unit shall be allowed on the same lot
for use as a caretaker dwelling.
      (92)   Watch or jewelry repair shop.
         (a)   Where required: CP District.
         (b)   Maximum area: a maximum of 3,000 square feet of gross floor area
shall be permitted per establishment.
         (c)   Outside storage: no outside storage of materials shall be
permitted.
      (93)   Rural preservation development (RPD).
         (a)   Where required and applicability: a rural preservation
development (RPD) shall be a minimum of 25 acres in size, zoned RS-40 or RS-30,
and shall be under unified ownership or control to be developed and improved as
a whole under a unified development plan in accordance with the requirements of
this chapter. A special use permit is required.
         (b)   Relationship to other applicable regulations: development in the
RPD shall be subject to all of the applicable standards, procedures and
regulations of this chapter, except as varied or changed by the express terms
of this section.
         (c)   Uses allowed: the uses allowed in a RPD are those allowed in any
RS district. Twin homes shall also be permitted; provided that:
            1.   The area proposed to accommodate twin homes are indicated on
the sketch and unified development plan and the lots proposed to accommodate
twin homes are identified on preliminary and final plats;
            2.   The lots proposed to accommodate twin homes do not account for
more than 25% of the gross number of proposed and approvable lots for the
development; and
            3.   No final plat is approved for recording that permits lots
proposed to accommodate twin homes to exceed 25% of the number of lots on
record permitting single-family development.
         (d)   Development standards:
            1.   Base calculation: the maximum number of lots/dwelling units
shall be determined as follows:
               a.   Calculate the gross acreage of the tract, excluding any
existing street right-of-way;
               b.   Subtract three-fourths of the area of any drainageways and/
or open space required to dedicated under §
151.132(G)(3)(b) of this chapter; and
               c.   Add credit units allowed under divisions (C)(93)(d)2. and
(C)(93)(d)3. below and round the result up.
            2.   Open space credit: for every five acres designated as open
space in excess of the area required under division (C)(93)(d)1. above, one
lot/dwelling unit may be added to the maximum number allowed under division (C)
(93)(d)1. above.
            3.   Sidewalk/trail network credit: if public access to the
sidewalk/trail network is granted via a public access easement identified on
the sketch plan, unified development plan, and subdivision plat two residential
lots/dwelling units may be added to the maximum number allowed under division
(C)(93)(d)1. above.
   (D)   Single-family.
      (1)   Single-family detached dwelling dimensional requirements. The
dimensional requirements for lots and dwellings shall at a minimum meet the
following standards:
         (a)   Minimum lot size: 5,000 square feet;
         (b)   Minimum width:
            1.   Interior lot: 50 feet; and
            2.   Corner lot: 70 feet.
         (c)   Minimum street frontage: 30 feet;
         (d)   1.   Minimum front local or collector street setback: 20 feet;
and
            2.   Minimum front major or minor thoroughfare street setback: 40
feet.
         (e)   1.   Minimum side local or collector street setback: 15 feet;
and
            2.   Minimum side major or minor thoroughfare street setback: 40
feet.
         (f)   Minimum interior setback:
            1.   Side: five feet; and
            2.   Rear: 15 feet.
      (2)   Single-family attached dimensional requirements. The location and
placement for all principal buildings shall meet minimum setbacks listed below:
         (a)   1.   Minimum building local or collector street setback: ten
feet; and
            2.   Minimum building major or minor thoroughfare street setback:
40 feet.
         (b)   Minimum building interior setback: side: ten feet;
         (c)   Minimum building interior setback: rear: 25 feet;
         (d)   No structure of any type which is in excess of 35 feet in height
shall be erected within 50 feet of an existing Single-Family Zoning District.
      (3)   Accessory building and structure dimensional requirements. The
location and placement of all accessory buildings and structures shall conform
to the requirements of §
151.096 of this chapter.
      (4)   Access.
         (a)   Areas between structures shall be covered by easements where
necessary to preserve access and to provide for maintenance and utility
service.
         (b)   Notwithstanding §
151.132(B)(6) of this chapter, single-family detached lots shall be permitted
to have access to thoroughfares provided each lot has a minimum street frontage
and lot width of 300 feet and a minimum lot size of three acres.
      (5)   Street design.
         (a)   Local streets. Local streets within the development shall be
located and designed to enhance the local street network and adopted
thoroughfare/collector/local street plans and provide reasonable and efficient
access and connections designed to reduce travel time within and through the
development. Connections to existing public streets and rights-of-way are
required. Connecting or through streets shall be public streets. Cul-de-sacs,
dead-ends and other non-connecting street may be private streets.
         (b)   Collector and thoroughfare streets. The governing body may
require a collector or thoroughfare street through the development in response
to anticipated traffic generated by the development and consistency with the
thoroughfare plan. Collector and thoroughfare streets shall be public streets.
         (c)   Internal network. The internal street network shall be
integrated as part of the pedestrian and bikeway trail network required herein.
      (6)   Signs.
         (a)   The size, height, setback, location, design, illumination and
number of signs shall comply with §§
151.145 through
151.155 of this chapter.
         (b)   All signs shall use a coordinated color, style and lettering
scheme.
         (c)   Street signs not installed by the jurisdiction must be approved
by the Planning Board and shall contain reflective lettering.
      (7)   Parking. Off-street parking for each use in the development shall
be provided in accordance with the standards set forth in this chapter for the
same use or uses of similar intensity.
      (8)   Environmentally sensitive areas. The development shall be designed
to limit disturbance in the following areas:
         (a)   Land within a floodway or floodway fringe;
         (b)   Wetlands and steep slopes. STEEP SLOPES shall be defined as land
areas that:
            1.   Have a grade of 25% or more;
            2.   Have an area of 10,000 square feet or greater; and
            3.   Are located within 200 feet of any floodway fringe or
perennial stream or within 100 feet of an intermittent stream.
         (c)   Ground water recharge areas; and
         (d)   Critical ecological areas including mature tree stands, wildlife
habitats and migration corridors, except for road crossings, utilities,
erosion-control and watershed protection devices and recreational facilities.
      (9)   Rural character preservation areas.
         (a)   The development shall incorporate and be designed to preserve
the following areas:
            1.   Active pasture land;
            2.   Farm house or “home place”, farm structures and other
historical structure or archaeological areas;
            3.   Wood post fences, stone rows and tree lines; and
            4.   Farm roads.
         (b)   Areas identified to preserve rural character maybe included as
open space under provisions found herein or included in a lot or lots provided
that the area(s) or structure(s) are identified on the sketch and unified
development plan. The location of farm roads should be used as driveway access
to dwelling units or as street access into the development, where feasible.
      (10)   Open space.
         (a)   A minimum of 50% of the gross land area, less open space credits
and excluding existing street right-of-way shall be open space, as defined
below.
         (b)   In a RPD, QUALIFYING OPEN SPACE shall be that land:
            1.   Dedicated to the public for parkland, open space and/or
drainageway;
            2.   Placed under the control of a land trust or conservancy;
            3.   Designated for agricultural use only;
            4.   Designated by the development plan as common area for the use,
benefit and enjoyment of all residents of the development;
            5.   Special purpose lots designated for off-site sewage treatment,
community well recharge areas and community sewage treatment; or
            6.   Open space credits. The sidewalk/trail network area shall be
calculated by multiplying linear feet by 20 feet. Every acre or portion thereof
provided in sidewalk/trail network shall be deducted from the total minimum 50%
open space requirement (e.g., a 100-acre site providing one mile [2.42 acres]
of trail would reduce the minimum open space requirement from 50 acres to 47.6
acres).
         (c)   To qualify as open space, land shall be useable for sewage
treatment, recreation purposes, provide visual, aesthetic or environmental
amenities, or be agriculturally productive land, and may not be occupied by
street rights-of-way, drives, parking areas or structures, other than
recreational structures and those associated with community well or sewage
systems.
         (d)   Land within a floodway, floodway fringe zone or bodies of water
greater than one acre in size may be used to provide not more than 50% of the
open space required in development. Other areas required to be dedicated under
§
151.132(G)(3)(b) of this chapter and rights-of-way for the trail network shall
count fully toward the open space requirement.
         (e)   All open space not containing planned improvements shall be
transferred to the land conservation/trust, owners’ association or dedicated as
open space with the recordation of the first phase of the development. Open
space containing planned improvements shall be provided within each phase of
the planned unit development in sufficient amounts to serve the expected
population of that phase.
         (f)   Land designated for agricultural use only maybe held in private
ownership or by an owners’ association.
      (11)   Sidewalk and trail network.
         (a)   Location and purpose. The development shall provide a
pedestrian/bikeway trail network linking:
            1.   Residential areas to the open space and recreation facilities;
and
            2.   The development to existing or proposed trails, those shown on
an adopted land use plan, trails.
         (b)   Design standards. The trail network shall be contained within a
public or private right-of-way a minimum of 20 feet in width. The trail network
shall consist of a public paved sidewalk or a private all-weather walkway. The
width of the travelway shall be a minimum of five feet. When the trail is
adjacent to or parallel to a public or private street, it shall be separated
from the edge of pavement a minimum of six feet. The walkway maybe located
within a public street right-of-way subject to the approval of the jurisdiction
maintaining the public street.
         (c)   Maintenance. Maintenance of the trail network shall be the
responsibility of a owners’ association for all trails located outside public
street right-of-way. Trails located within public street right-of-way may be
maintained by the jurisdiction maintaining the public street, subject to the
jurisdiction’s approval. If the jurisdiction will not assume maintenance, the
owners’ association shall be responsible for maintenance.
      (12)   Utilities. Water, sewer, electrical, gas, television and telephone
utilities shall be installed in accordance with §
151.132(H) of this chapter. Community wells and sewage treatment systems are
permitted and encouraged in the RPD. The approval process for community wells
and sewage treatment systems shall follow the procedures found in §§
151.120 through
151.132 of this chapter. The areas designated for community wells and sewage
treatment systems shall be indicated on the sketch plan and unified development
plan.
   (E)   Procedures.
      (1)   Development pre-conference. The applicant shall meet with the
planning staff, preferably on site to discuss the over-all design of the
development and identify the environmentally sensitive and rural character
preservation areas that should be incorporated into the development plan prior
to filing for the special use permit.
      (2)   Special use permit process.
         (a)   Prior to submitting an application requesting a special use
permit, the applicant shall submit a sketch plan prepared in accordance with §§
151.335 through
151.337 of this chapter, excluding individual lot layouts, but including:
            1.   The general location and amount of land proposed for single-
family residential dwellings, twin homes, open space, community wells and
sewage treatment system areas, recreational areas and street use;
            2.   The overall gross density of the development and the specific
density of each tract or area shown on the sketch plat. Residential density
shall be shown in dwelling units/acre;
            3.   The location of internal local streets that connect to
existing streets or rights-of-ways or that provide future connections and
general location of all collector and/or thoroughfare streets planned or
required that will be part of the development;
            4.   The maximum height of buildings and structures in each tract
or area;
            5.   The location and amount of land in flood hazard areas and any
other lands not suitable for development; and
            6.   Proposed watershed protection measures, including their
general location, if required.
         (b)   The Enforcement Officer shall review the sketch plan and may
present the plan to the Technical Review Committee for consistency with the
requirements of §§
151.120 through
151.132 of this chapter and other applicable standards in this chapter. The
Enforcement Officer, upon finding such consistency, shall approve the sketch
plan for submission with a special use permit application. If the sketch plan
is not approved for submission, it shall be returned to the applicant with
written reasons for disapproval and/or requests for further information. If it
is not approved, the applicant may revise and resubmit the sketch plan.
      (3)   Special use permit process.
         (a)   The special use permit application shall consist of the
following materials:
            1.   The application prepared in accordance with §§
151.065 through
151.081 of this chapter; and
            2.   A unified development plan (UDP) containing the following:
               a.   The sketch plan, identifying proposed phases, if any; and
               b.   Documents which specify proposed setbacks or other
regulations governing building placement on the land, height restrictions,
architectural controls and other information which may be deemed pertinent to
plan approval. The applicant may use district regulations provided by this
section or may impose regulations specified in other zoning districts. In no
case, shall the unified development plan leave any area proposed for
development unregulated.
         (b)   Once submitted as required herein, special use permit request
shall proceed to conclusion in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
Approval of the special use permit establishes the maximum density and use of
each tract or area shown on the sketch plan. Any request for changes to the
permit or plan shall be reviewed as outlined in §§
151.065 through
151.081 of this chapter. If the special use permit application is approved, the
sketch plan and related documents specified in division (E)(3)(a)2. above shall
be duly recorded in the public registry prior to the issuance of any building
permit or recordation of any plat. After approval of a unified development
plan, no building or structure may be erected or building permit issued, nor
any lots sold, nor any plats recorded unless such building, structure, permit
or plat substantially conforms to the unified development plan.
      (4)   Plat approval. Plat approval shall be in accordance with the
procedures outlined in §§
151.120 through
151.132 of this chapter.
      (5)   Phasing of development.
         (a)   Development may occur in phases; provided that, the following
requirements are met.
            1.   All phases shall be shown with precise boundaries on the
unified development plan and shall be numbered in the expected order of
development.
            2.   All data required for the project as a whole shall be given
for each phase shown on the plan.
            3.   A proportionate share of the project’s open space and common
facilities shall be included in each phase of development.
            4.   The phasing shall be consistent with the traffic circulation,
drainage and utilities plans for the entire development.
         (b)   If an approved unified development plan includes phasing
provisions, then:
            1.   No final plat for a phase of the development shall be approved
unless all open space and common facilities included in previous phases are
substantially complete; and
            2.   No final plat for a phase of a planned unit development shall
be approved if there is any uncorrected violation of the unified development
plan, a preliminary plat, a final plat or this subchapter in any previous
phase.
      (6)   Owners’ association documents required. After approval of a unified
development plan, no final plat shall be recorded until the owners’ association
documents prepared in accordance with §
151.128 of this chapter are recorded with the Register of Deeds.
(Ord. passed 5-18-2006(1); Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 6-4; Ord. passed 11-17-
2011(1); Ord. passed 11-17-2011(2); Ord. passed 10-23-2016(1); Ord. passed 11-
13-2025)
§ 151.211 FENCES.
   (A)   Applicability. This section regulates all fences unless otherwise
provided in this chapter. Fences are permitted in required setbacks according
to §
151.100(C) of this chapter; provided, the requirements of this section are met.
   (B)   Permitted fence types. The following fence types are permitted in all
zoning districts:
      (1)   Masonry or stone walls;
      (2)   Ornamental iron;
      (3)   Chain link or woven wire; and
      (4)   Wood or similar material.
   (C)   Prohibited fence types. The following fence types are prohibited:
      (1)   Fences constructed primarily of barbed or razor wire, except for
the purpose of enclosing livestock;
      (2)   Fences carrying electrical current, except for the purpose of
enclosing livestock, or as allowed in division (G)(6) below;
      (3)   Fences constructed in whole or in part of readily flammable
material such as paper, cloth or canvas;
      (4)   Fences topped with barbed wire or metal spikes in residential
zoning districts, except those serving a public institution requiring a
security fence for public safety purposes; and
      (5)   Fences constructed of concertina wire.
   (D)   Maintenance required. Any fence which, through neglect, lack of
repair, type or manner of construction, method of placement or otherwise,
constitutes a hazard or endangers any person, animal or property is hereby
deemed a nuisance. If such conditions exist, the Enforcement Officer shall
require the owner or occupant of the property upon which the fence is located
to repair, replace or demolish the fence causing the nuisance.
   (E)   Height.
      (1)   Residential uses.
         (a)   Before front setback. No fence shall exceed four feet in height
up to the front setback line.
         (b)   Behind front setback. No fence shall exceed eight feet in height
behind the front setback line.
         (c)   Exceptions.
            1.   No fence shall exceed four feet in height within 15 feet of
any public or private street right-of-way line in a group housing development
unless the sole purpose is to enclose a patio; a patio enclosure shall not
exceed eight feet in height.
            2.   On through lots where a front setback abuts a major or minor
thoroughfare and there is no driveway access or sight distance interference, a
fence may be eight feet in height as long as such fence is no closer than 15
feet from the thoroughfare right-of-way.
      (2)   Recreational uses. No fence shall exceed 12 feet in height if the
fence is within the required setback. Otherwise, no fence shall exceed eight
feet in height.
      (3)   Commercial industrial institutional or office uses. No fence shall
exceed eight feet in height, unless it meets the requirements of division (G)
(6) below.
      (4)   Measurement.
         (a)   Fence height shall be measured in the same manner as buildings.
However, where fences are located on retaining walls or human-made berms, the
height of the retaining wall or berm shall be considered as part of the overall
height of the fence.
         (b)   Fence height limitations do not apply to fences built in
conjunction with electric or gas substations, utility facilities, sewer plants
or facilities, radio and television masts, towers and similar structures,
municipal water storage facilities, public correctional and mental institutions
or military facilities or hazardous or radioactive waste, storage and disposal
facilities.
   (F)   Temporary fences. Nothing in this section shall preclude the
installation of temporary fences around construction works, erected or
maintained pursuant to the state building code or the soil erosion and
sedimentation control regulations.
   (G)   General fence requirements.
      (1)   Obstruction of view. No fence shall be placed or retained in such a
manner as to obstruct vision at any intersection of public or private streets.
      (2)   Obstruction of drainageways. Fence construction shall not alter or
impede the natural flow of water in any stream, creek, drainage swale or ditch.
      (3)   Historic districts. Fences in historic districts shall meet the
guidelines for the particular historic district in which it is located.
      (4)   Obstruction of access. No fence shall block access from doors or
windows. Fences must have a clearance of at least two feet from building walls,
except where fences project from or to a building wall.
      (5)   Orientation of barbed wire. On fences topped with barbed wire, the
bottom strand must be at least six feet above grade with vertical supports
slanting at a minimum 30-degree angle.
      (6)   Low-voltage electrified fencing. Low-voltage electrified fencing
with a maximum of 12 volts, primary voltage, is allowed in the light industrial
and heavy industrial districts; provided that:
         (a)   An electrified fence may not exceed ten feet in height;
         (b)   An electrified fence must be inside of or enclosed by a non-
electrified fence or wall with a minimum height of six feet;
         (c)   The entire electrified fence must be separated from the non-
electrified fence or wall by a minimum distance of at least six inches at the
closest point;
         (d)   The electrified fence must be identified by a warning sign
displayed at the rate of at least one sign per 50 linear feet of fencing; and
         (e)   A Knox box shall be required and installed per the standards and
direction of the Fire Department (optional).
      (7)   Location within required planting yards. The setback of fences
within a required planting yard shall be subject to the approval of a
landscaping plan.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 6-5; Ord. passed 10-23-2016(1))
§ 151.212 DUMPSTER SCREENING.
   (A)   Applicability. All dumpsters or other similarly large trash
receptacles, including compactors, must be screened from view of public street
rights-of-way, the common elements of any private street or drive, existing or
planned greenways and from any residential zoning district.
   (B)   General standards.
      (1)   Screening. Dumpsters must be screened by using an opaque wall or
fence, or by using combination of opaque materials, berming and/or evergreen
landscaping that provides the required screening effect. Dumpsters may also be
screened by wall(s) of a principal or accessory structure. Chain link fencing
with woven slats of opaque material is not acceptable for screening dumpsters,
on either the gates or enclosure sides.
      (2)   Height. The opaque screening material or structure shall be a
minimum of eight feet in height. (Height may be exceeded at applicant’s
discretion.)
      (3)   Exemption. Screening is not required in the HI District, unless the
dumpster is located within 100 feet of a residential land use.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2016(1), § 6-7)
**** STORM WATER MANAGEMENT ****
§ 151.225 DISTRICT DESCRIPTIONS.
   (A)   Two overlay districts cover the incorporated areas of the town.
   (B)   They are the national pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES)
and the water supply watershed overlays.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 7-1; Ord. passed 5-17-2007(1); Ord. passed 2-21-
2008(1); Ord. passed 11-18-2010(1))
§ 151.226 INCORPORATION OF DESIGNATED WATER SUPPLY WATERSHED/NPDES PHASE II
STORM WATER MAP OF GUILFORD COUNTY.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all incorporated areas of the
town, as shown on the map titled “Designated Water Supply Watershed/NPDES Phase
II Storm Water Map of Guilford County, North Carolina” (“the Storm Water Map”),
which is adopted simultaneously herewith. The Storm Water Map and all
explanatory matter contained thereon accompanies, is hereby made a part of,
this chapter.
The Storm Water Map shall be kept on file by the Enforcement Officer and shall
be updated to take into account changes in the land area covered by this
chapter and the geographic location of all structural BMPs permitted under this
chapter. In the event of a dispute, the applicability of this chapter to a
particular area of land or BMP shall be determined by reference to the North
Carolina Statutes, the North Carolina Administrative Code and local zoning and
jurisdictional boundary maps and this chapter.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 7-1; Ord. passed 5-17-2007(1); Ord. passed 2-21-
2008(1); Ord. passed 11-18-2010(1))
§ 151.227 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Coverage.
      (1)   This subchapter and §§
151.250 and
151.251 of this chapter apply to all sites in the town’s planning jurisdiction
unless specifically exempted pursuant to division (B) below.
      (2)   The construction of new streets by local government shall comply
with best management practices developed in response to NCDOT’s EPA-NPDES storm
water management program which is incorporated herein by reference.
      (3)   Widening of existing streets and the installation of sidewalks
shall comply with the provisions of this chapter to the extent practicable.
When determined by the Enforcement Officer, or designee that the provisions of
these sections cannot be met, the widening of existing streets and the
installation of sidewalks shall comply with best management practices developed
in response to NCDOT’s EPA-NPDES storm water management program which is
incorporated herein by reference.
   (B)   Exempt activities. The following activities are exempt from the storm
water management/ watershed development requirements of this section. However,
any restrictions upon building location, drainageways, pavement or other built-
upon area, or any other matter appearing on any previously approved storm water
management/watershed development plan covering the subject property shall be
complied with unless and until replaced by an approved revised plan:
      (1)   Construction of a single-family dwelling and its accessory
structures on a legal lot of record established prior to the regulations for
the watershed protection district. This exemption does not apply to riparian
buffer protection for lands within the Jordan Lake Watershed;
      (2)   Replacement of existing built-upon area with a like or lesser
amount of new built-upon area at the same location, or at a different location
on the same zoned lot if the Enforcement Officer, or designee has determined
that equal or improved water quality will result. Requires submittal of site
plan documenting removal/relocation of built-upon area;
      (3)   Placement of small accessory buildings or structures or small
amounts of other built-upon area provided that the total additional built-upon
area is no greater than 400 square feet. This exemption shall apply to an
individual property for one time only after 1-1-1994. Requires submittal of
site plan documenting location of 400 square foot built-upon area. This
provision shall not allow any development to circumvent the riparian buffer
protection for lands within the Jordan Lake Watershed;
      (4)   Existing development in non-water supply districts that was in
place prior to 7-1-2007. Any water quality device required by new development
or redevelopment shall be sized to treat runoff from all impervious surfaces
(existing and proposed) that naturally flow to that device. Required water
quality control for an area of new development can be substituted for an equal
area of existing development, if the Enforcement Officer, or designee has
determined that equal or improved water quality will result; and
      (5)   Existing development in watershed districts until such time that
additional new development is initiated on the site. Existing development
located in the designated town core as shown on the Town of Stokesdale Future
Land Use Update 2007 and in place prior to 7-1-1993 shall be exempt.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 7-1; Ord. passed 5-17-2007(1); Ord. passed 2-21-
2008(1); Ord. passed 11-18-2010(1))
§ 151.228 PARTICIPATION IN A PUBLIC REGIONAL WATER QUALITY LAKE PROGRAM.
   (A)   Where permitted. Where a regional water quality lake program has been
established by one or more local governments, or by an authority operating on
behalf of one or more local governments, and approved by the state’s
Environmental Management Commission, a development may participate in said
program in lieu of any certification of runoff control required by this
subchapter; provided that:
      (1)   The development is within an area covered by a public regional
water quality lake program;
      (2)   Runoff from the development drains to an existing or funded public
regional water quality lake which is part of said program;
      (3)   Participation is in the form of contribution of funds, contribution
of land, contribution of lake construction work or a combination of these, the
total value of which shall be in accordance with a fee schedule adopted by the
governing body; and
      (4)   The Enforcement Officer, or designee finds that the watershed
development plan is in compliance with all other applicable requirements of
this subchapter.
   (B)   Use of contributions. Each contribution from a development
participating in a public regional water quality lake program shall be used for
acquisition, design or construction of one or more such lakes in the same water
supply watershed that the development lies in.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 7-1; Ord. passed 5-17-2007(1); Ord. passed 2-21-
2008(1); Ord. passed 11-18-2010(1))
§ 151.229 STORM WATER MANAGEMENT/WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   (A)   Plan required. A storm water management/watershed development plan in
accordance with the performance standards specified in Table 31 of this chapter
or the requirements of §
151.251 of this chapter and with other requirements of this article shall be
submitted to the Enforcement Officer and shall include all applicable
information listed in §§
151.335 through
151.337 of this chapter.
   (B)   Plan approval. The Enforcement Officer is authorized to approve any
storm water management/watershed development plan which is in conformance with
the performance standards specified in Table 31 of this chapter or the
requirements of §
151.251 of this chapter, whichever is applicable, and with other requirements
of this subchapter.
   (C)   Approved plan a prerequisite. The Enforcement Officer is not
authorized to issue any permits, except as provided in §
151.068(A)(4) of this chapter for development on any land unless and until a
storm water management/watershed development plan in compliance with the
requirements of this section has been approved.
   (D)   Deed restriction; restrictive covenant.
      (1)   (a)   In accordance with applicable national pollutant discharge
elimination system (NPDES) Phase II regulations recorded deed restrictions and
protective covenants shall be required to ensure that development activities
maintain the development consistent with the approved project plans.
         (b)   Effective July 1, 200 , the following restriction shall be
required for all developments in incorporated Stokesdale.
      (2)   The Enforcement Officer, or designee shall review and approve plats
and deeds prior to recording or prior to issuing a building permit. A copy of
the recorded document shall be forwarded to the Enforcement Officer or designee
prior to issuing a certificate of occupancy.
      (3)   The deed restriction and protective covenants note shall take the
following form for plats and deeds:
 
DEED RESTRICTION - RESTRICTIVE COVENANT
Development of subject property is required to be in accordance with applicable
state and federal regulations for the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination
System (NPDES) Phase II storm water management program. The recording of this
document establishes an enforceable restriction on property usage that runs
with the land to ensure that future development and/or redevelopment shall
maintain the site in a manner consistent with applicable law and the approved
project plans. Any alterations to the site shall not be permitted without
review and approval by the local governmental office having jurisdiction for
watershed/storm water management protection.
 
 
   (E)   Permanent runoff control structures. When a permanent runoff control
structure is required for a development/redevelopment to meet the requirements
of this subchapter, a state registered professional engineer shall prepare the
plan with the engineer’s statement of runoff control from §
151.230 of this chapter affixed, signed, sealed and dated.
   (F)   Appeals. Appeals of the Enforcement Officer’s, or designee’s, decision
on a storm water management/watershed development plan shall be made in writing
to the Town Council. The Technical Review Committee shall review the appeal at
its first regularly scheduled meeting after receipt of the written appeal and
make a recommendation to the Town Council.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 7-1; Ord. passed 5-17-2007(1); Ord. passed 2-21-
2008(1); Ord. passed 11-18-2010(1))
§ 151.230 IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Design of improvements.
      (1)   Design of improvements shall:
         (a)   Be performed by a state registered professional engineer;
         (b)   Be subject to approval of the Enforcement Officer or designee;
and
         (c)   Meet or exceed the guidelines in the latest edition of the
“Guilford County Water Quality Protection Manual”, issued by Guilford County.
      (2)   The Enforcement Officer or designee may recommend, and the
Technical Review Committee may require, that a given runoff control structure
(s) be positioned on a site such that water quality protection is improved.
      (3)   The construction plans for required runoff control structures shall
be approved prior to issuance of any building permit on a site. For
subdivisions, construction plans shall be submitted in accordance with §
151.126(A) of this chapter.
   (B)   Engineer’s statement of runoff control. The engineering certification
required on storm water management/watershed development plans and construction
plan drawings shall be of the following form:
 
ENGINEER’S STATEMENT OF RUNOFF CONTROL
I state that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, the runoff control measure(s) shown on this plan have been designed to
control and treat runoff from the first one inch of rain from all built-upon areas over the total drainage area and the
discharge of the storage volume is at a rate equal to or less than the predevelopment discharge rate for the one-year, 24-hour
storm and that the runoff control measures shown on this plan meet or exceed the guidelines in the latest edition of the
Guilford County Water Quality Protection Manual issued by Guilford County.
                                                               
SIGNATURE
P.E. SEAL
                                                               
DATE
 
 
   (C)   Construction of improvements.
      (1)   The construction of all improvements designed for post construction
runoff control and shown on an approved storm water management/watershed
development plan shall be substantially completed prior to any plat recordation
or issuance of any building certificate of occupancy (compliance).
      (2)   Final approval of installed post construction runoff control
structures will be required at finalization of the grading permit or at
issuance of the final building certificate of occupancy (compliance), whichever
comes later. If neither a building permit nor a grading permit is required for
a site, then any required runoff control structure shall be substantially
completed prior to installation of any built-upon area on the site. Engineering
statement of completion and record of construction in division (E) below shall
be required prior to final approval by the Enforcement Officer.
   (D)   Recordation of permanent improvements. All permanent runoff control
structures and associated access/maintenance easement(s) (specific or general,
at the owner’s option) shall be recorded on a final plat; and a best management
practice operation and maintenance agreement, as outlined in the latest edition
of the “Guilford County Water Quality Protection Manual” shall be submitted to
the Enforcement Officer for review and approval, then subsequently recorded in
the office of the county’s Register of Deeds concurrent with or prior to plat
recordation.
   (E)   Engineer’s statement of completion. The record of construction (as
shown in the water quality protection manual) and the engineer’s statement
required upon completion of permanent runoff control structures shall be of the
following form:
 
ENGINEER’S STATEMENT OF COMPLETION
I state that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, the permanent runoff control structure for (name of plat) is duly
recorded in the Office of the Guilford County Register of Deeds and has been completed in conformance with the approved plans
and specifications dated (approval date).
                                                               
SIGNATURE
P.E. SEAL
                                                               
DATE
 
 
   (F)   Maintenance responsibility.
      (1)   When runoff control structures serve more than one lot, an owners’
association or binding contract for the purpose of maintenance shall be
required. See §
151.127(B) of this chapter.
      (2)   Maintenance of runoff control structures shall be performed at such
time as the designated sediment storage volume of the structure has been lost
to sediment or a part of the system is not functioning as originally designed.
The Enforcement Officer shall have the responsibility to inspect runoff control
structures annually, to record the results on forms approved or supplied by the
state’s Division of Water Quality, and to notify the responsible property owner
or owners’ association when maintenance or repairs are required. All required
repairs and maintenance shall be performed within 90 days after such notice. In
case of failure by the responsible party to perform the required maintenance or
repairs within the stated period, in accordance with §
151.999 of this chapter, the jurisdiction may impose an assessment of a civil
penalty up to $200 per day for each violation.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 7-1; Ord. passed 5-17-2007(1); Ord. passed 2-21-
2008(1); Ord. passed 11-18-2010(1))
§ 151.231 CLUSTERING.
   (A)   Clustering encouraged. Clustering of residential development is
encouraged. Clustering of single-family detached development is allowed under
the provisions of §
151.098(A)(2) of this chapter. Multi-family development may be clustered so
long as the development complies with the standards of §
151.098(B) of this chapter.
   (B)   Performance requirements. Clustering is allowed if the overall density
of the project meets the applicable density and storm water runoff control
requirements, the built-upon areas are designed and sited to minimize storm
water runoff impact to the receiving waters and minimize concentrated storm
water flow, the remainder of the tract remains in a vegetated or natural state
and the stream buffering requirements found in §
151.232 of this chapter are met.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 7-1; Ord. passed 5-17-2007(1); Ord. passed 2-21-
2008(1); Ord. passed 11-18-2010(1))
§ 151.232 DRAINAGE.
   The design of storm drainage systems and plans, including calculations,
shall clearly indicate the easements and dedicated areas required for the
construction and maintenance of the drainage system.
   (A)   General drainage requirement.
      (1)   All watercourses which carry drainage from a public road or have a
two acre or larger drainage basin, shall be treated in one or more of the three
ways listed in §
151.231(B), (C) and (D) which follow. Except where §
151.231(A)(2) leaves the determination to the developer, the Technical Review
Committee shall determine the treatments to be used, based upon the drainage
area and adopted open space plan. Open drainage channel requirements shall be
based upon a minimum of 100-year storm, and enclosed systems shall be based
upon a minimum of ten-year storm. If the channel is a perennial or intermittent
stream, or is identified on the open space plan map or drains a 120-acre or
larger basin, the determination of drainage treatment shall be made by the
Technical Review Committee. In making this determination, the Technical Review
Committee shall consider the following factors:
         (a)   The type of development;
         (b)   The treatment employed by nearby developments;
         (c)   The probability of creation of a lengthy greenway or drainageway
and open space;
         (d)   The probability of the creation of future maintenance problems;
         (e)   The probability of erosion or flooding problems;
         (f)   The adopted open space plan; and
         (g)   NPDES Phase II requirements, stream buffer requirements and
channelization limitations for GWA, as described in this subchapter, §§
151.250,
151.251,
151.265 through
151.278 and
151.290 through
151.303 of this chapter.
      (2)   If the channel is not a perennial or intermittent stream, or is not
identified on the open space plan and drains less than a 120-acre drainage
basin, the determination of drainage treatment shall be made by the property
owner in a manner consistent with this section.
   (B)   Enclosed subsurface drains.
      (1)   This section applies to enclosed subsurface drains. Profiles and
enclosure standards shall be in accordance with the “Guilford County Storm
Sewer Design Manual”.
      (2)   A drainage maintenance and utility easement (DMUE) or drainage
easement designed to accommodate storm water shall be placed on a recorded plat
when determined necessary by the jurisdiction. The required easement shall be
centered on the enclosure when practical, but in no case shall the outside wall
of the enclosure be located less than five feet from the edge of the easement.
The easement shall be of a width determined necessary for maintenance purposes
by the jurisdiction based upon enclosure depth, topography and location of
existing and proposed improvements, but no less than 15 feet.
      (3)   The DMUE or drainage easement shall be kept free and clear of any
buildings or other improvements which would interfere with the proper
maintenance of the underground enclosures. The jurisdiction shall not be liable
for damages to any improvement located within DMUE area caused by maintenance
of utilities located therein. Furthermore, DMUE may be used for future
installations of any underground utility; provided that:
         (a)   Any underground utility to be installed by any utility provider
other than the jurisdiction shall be subject to approval;
         (b)   Any government agency, public utility or private company
installing additional underground lines after development has been completed by
the owner of the property shall be responsible for the replacement of all
fencing, pavement and grassed area disturbed by such installation; and
         (c)   The jurisdiction shall not be responsible for damages caused by
installation of additional lines by any public or private utility company.
   (C)   Open channel in dedicated drainageway and open space area.
      (1)   This section applies to an open channel in a dedicated drainageway
and open space area. The drainageway and open space area shall be dedicated by
a recorded plat and shall be labeled “Dedicated to Stokesdale and the public
for Drainageway and Open Space”. If a portion of the drainageway and open space
lies within a proposed thoroughfare shown on the thoroughfare plan, it shall be
labeled “Dedicated to Stokesdale and the public for Drainageway and Open Space
or Thoroughfare”. The ownership of the dedicated land remains with the deeded
owner, but the use is restricted. Dedication does not transfer title. The
dedicated area can also be deeded to any individual or group, such as a
homeowners’ association or to the town (with Town Council acceptance).
      (2)   The dedicated drainageway and open space area along any stream that
drains a 120-acre or larger drainage basin shall include the land between the
natural 100-year flood contour lines as determined by FEMA or by calculations
approved by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. (Caution: other environmental
regulations or federal wetland regulations will prohibit or restrict fill
placement in certain locations.) An area within the floodway fringe can be
developed with a floodplain development permit. The remainder shall be
dedicated as indicated in division (C)(1) above. A previously dedicated area
may be considered for development through re-platting and approval from TRC.
      (3)   In case of severe topography, additional width may be required to
assure reasonable case of maintenance.
      (4)   The dedicated drainageway and open space area shall abut public
street right-of-way on at least 30% of its perimeter, except when the Technical
Review Committee determines that adequate access is otherwise provided. The
minimum length of street frontage at each location where drainageway and open
space abuts public street right-of-way shall be 60 feet. The maximum distance,
measured by straight lines on either side of the drainageway and open space,
between points at which the drainageway and open space abuts street right-of-
way shall be 1,000 feet.
      (5)   The centerline of the drainage channel that drains a 120-acre or
larger drainage basin shall be located no less than 50 feet from any street or
property line; provided that, the dimensions of the drainage way and open space
area conform to all other requirements of this section. The minimum distance
from centerline shall be 20 feet along smaller drainageways.
      (6)   Drainageway and open space shall be left in its natural condition
or graded to a section approved by the jurisdiction which will allow economical
and efficient maintenance and shall be stabilized with permanent vegetative
cover.
   (D)   Open channel on private property within a drainage or drainage
maintenance and utility easement.
      (1)   This division (D) applies to open channels on private property
within a drainage or drainage maintenance and utility easement.
      (2)   (a)   The drainage or drainage maintenance and utility easement
shall include the required drainage channel and the land between the channel
and the natural 100-year flood contour as determined by FEMA or by calculations
approved by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers; or, in some cases, it may be
reduced by modifying the easement topography to a typical required drainage
channel section as provided for in this section. However, the minimum total
width of easement shall be no less than specified below.
 
Table 29: Easement Width
Drainage Basin      Required Distance from Stream Minimum Total Easement Width
                    Centerline
2 - 6 acres         15 ft.                        30 ft.
6.01 - 25 acres     30 ft.                        60 ft.
25.01 or more acres 55 ft.                        110 ft.
 
         (b)   The easement width shall be centered on the typical required
drainage channel section, unless the Technical Review Committee approves other
easement alignments because of topographic conditions. Concentrated drainage
from less than a two-acre drainage basin, exiting a public right-of-way, shall
be as conveyed into a drainage easement as specified below:
            1.   Thirty feet wide for the length of channel for concentrated
flow existing public right-of-way into a defined channel;
            2.   Minimum 30 feet wide by 50 feet in length for concentrated
flow exiting public right-of-way onto terrain with no pronounced drainage
features;
            3.   In case of severe topography, additional width may be required
to assure reasonable case of maintenance;
            4.   The easement topography may be modified if permitted under
other applicable local and state regulations (stream buffer, N.C. Division of
Water Quality 401/U.S. Army Corps of Engineers 404 and the like). In such
cases, the approved typical required drainage channel section shall include the
necessary channel to accommodate a 100-year flood event and be in accordance
with the “Guilford County Storm Sewer Design Manual”. The area outside of the
required drainage channel may be filled; but any resulting slope shall be no
steeper than two feet horizontal to one foot vertical, unless the slope is
protected by masonry paving, rip-rap or other material which meets the
jurisdiction’s specifications. If the channel has been altered such that the
design flow cannot be contained within the recorded easement, a corrected
easement shall be recorded to show the altered location and width;
            5.   If the Technical Review Committee determines suitable access
to the easement is not otherwise provided, access shall be guaranteed by a
suitably located access easement which shall be no less than 20 feet in width;
            6.   It shall be the responsibility of the owner to maintain all
drainageways located on the property. If the governing body determines that it
is in the public interest to alter the typical required channel section and/or
profile of the stream to improve flow, the jurisdiction may enter the property
within the indicated access or drainage maintenance and utility easement and
carry out the necessary work without liability for any damage to the property,
or improvements thereon, located within the easement;
            7.   Drainage maintenance and utility easements may be utilized for
any underground utility; provided that:
               a.   Underground utility lines to be installed by any utility
provider other than the jurisdiction shall be subject to approval by the
Enforcement Officer or designee;
               b.   The government agency, public utility or private company
installing underground lines after development has been completed by the owner
of the property shall be responsible for the replacement of all fencing,
pavement and grassed areas disturbed by such installation;
               c.   The jurisdiction shall not be responsible for damage caused
by the installation of additional lines by any public or private utility
company; and
               d.   The jurisdiction shall not be liable for damages to any
improvements located within the drainage maintenance and utility easement area
caused by maintenance of utilities located therein.
            8.   No buildings or structures, except for water-related
improvements, shall be placed or constructed within the access or drainage
maintenance and utility easement. All drives, parking areas or other
improvements shall be constructed no closer than two feet horizontally from the
top of any back slope along any open watercourse.
   (E)   Modifications to drainage or drainage maintenance and utility
easement.
      (1)   This section applies to all recorded drainage or drainage
maintenance and utility easements. This shall include other recorded easements
identified by an assortment of varying names in which one of the principal
functions is to convey runoff from storm water.
      (2)   Unless strictly prohibited under other applicable sections,
easements may be modified, altered or relocated with prior approval by the
Enforcement Officer, or designee based upon review of certification with
supporting technical data by a registered design professional. Supporting data
shall be in accordance with the “Guilford County Storm Sewer Design Manual” and
must clearly demonstrate that such modifications will not result in any
increase in flood levels or create any adverse impacts during the occurrence of
the design flow discharge. Approval criteria shall include but not be limited
to: system capacity to adequately convey design flow discharge, location of
outlet/discharge, resistance to erosive forces, potential to adversely impact
neighboring properties, system maintenance requirements, existing utilities,
other applicable local, state and federal regulations.
      (3)   Any alteration of a drainage or drainage maintenance and utility
easement without prior approval may be deemed a violation and subject to
enforcement actions. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the installation of
utilities as allowed by other sections.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 7-1; Ord. passed 5-17-2007(1); Ord. passed 2-21-
2008(1); Ord. passed 11-18-2010(1))
§ 151.233 STREAM BUFFER REQUIRED.
   (A)   Riparian buffer protection for lands within the Jordan Lake Watershed.
      (1)   Authority. Division (A)(1) is adopted pursuant to the authority
vested in the town by the Session Laws and the General Statutes of North
Carolina, particularly Session Law 2009-216 (House Bill 239), Session Law 2009-
484 (Senate Bill 838), G.S. §§ 153A-121, 153A-140, Chapter 153A, Article 18,
G.S. §§ 160A-174, 160A-193, Chapter 160D, and any special legislation enacted
by the General Assembly for the town.
      (2)   Purpose and intent.
         (a)   The purposes of the town in adopting division (A)(1) is to
protect and preserve existing riparian buffers throughout the Jordan Watershed
as generally described in Rule 15A NCAC 02B .0262 (Jordan Water Supply Nutrient
Strategy: Purpose and Scope), in order to maintain their nutrient removal and
stream protection functions. Additionally this chapter will help protect the
water supply uses of Jordan Reservoir and of designated water supplies
throughout the Jordan watershed. The requirements of division (A)(1) above
shall supersede all other locally implemented buffer requirements as outlined
in division (A)(2)(b) below.
         (b)   Buffers adjacent to streams provide multiple environmental
protection and resource management benefits. Forested buffers enhance and
protect the natural ecology of stream systems, as well as water quality through
bank stabilization, shading and nutrient removal. They also help to minimize
flood damage in flood-prone areas. Well-vegetated streamside riparian areas
help to remove nitrogen and prevent sediment and sediment-bound pollutants such
as phosphorous from reaching the streams.
      (3)   Jurisdiction. Division (A)(1) above shall be applied to all land in
the planning jurisdiction of the town that is located within the Jordan
Reservoir watershed. The Jordan Reservoir watershed includes the Reidsville
water supply watershed and the Haw River watershed as designated on the Storm
Water Map of Guilford County.
      (4)   Applicability. Division (A)(1) above applies to all landowners and
other persons conducting activities in the area described in division (A)(3)
above, with the exception of activities conducted under the authority of the
state, the United States, multiple jurisdictions or local units of government
and forest harvesting and agricultural activities. The N.C. Division of Water
Quality shall administer the requirements of Rule 15A NCAC 02B .0267 and .0268
(Jordan Water Supply Nutrient Strategy: Protection of existing riparian buffers
and mitigation of existing riparian buffers, respectively) for these
activities.
      (5)   Riparian area protection within the Jordan Reservoir Watershed.
         (a)   Buffers protected. The following minimum criteria shall be used
for identifying regulated buffers:
            1.   Division (A) shall apply to activities conducted within, or
outside of with hydrologic impacts in violation of the diffuse flow
requirements set out in division (A)(5)(e) below upon, 50-foot wide riparian
buffers directly adjacent to surface waters in the Jordan watershed
(intermittent streams, perennial streams, lakes, reservoirs and ponds),
excluding wetlands.
            2.   Wetlands adjacent to surface waters or within 50 feet of
surface waters shall be considered as part of the riparian buffer but are
regulated pursuant to Rules 15A NCAC 2B .0230 and .0231, Rules 15A NCAC 2H
.0500, 15A NCAC 2H .1300, and §§ 401 and 404 of the Federal Water Pollution
Control Act.
            3.   For the purpose of this chapter, only one of the following
types of maps shall be used for purposes of identifying a waterbody subject to
the requirements of this chapter:
               a.   The most recent version of the soil survey map prepared by
the Natural Resources Conservation Service of the United States Department of
Agriculture;
               b.   The most recent version of the one to 24,000 scale (seven
and one-half minute) quadrangle topographic maps prepared by the United States
Geologic Survey (USGS);
               c.   A map approved by the geographic information coordinating
council and by the state environmental management commission. Prior to
approving a map under this subsection, the commission shall provide a 30-day
public notice and opportunity for comment. Alternative maps approved by the
Commission shall not be used for buffer delineation on projects that are
existing and ongoing within the meaning of division (A)(5)(c) below;
               d.   Where the specific origination point of a stream regulated
under this division (A)(5) is in question, upon request of the state’s Division
of Water Quality or another party, the town shall make an on-site
determination. A town representative who has successfully completed the
Division’s surface water identification training certification course, its
successor or other equivalent training curriculum approved by the Division,
shall establish that point using the latest version of the Division
publication, “Identification Methods for the Origins of Intermittent and
Perennial Streams”, available at http://h2o.enr.state.nc.us/newetlands/
documents/NC_Stream_ID_Manual.pdf or from the N.C. Division of Water Quality,
401 Oversight Express Permitting Unit, or its successor. The town may accept
the results of a site assessment made by another party who meets these
criteria. Any disputes over on-site determinations made according to this
subsection shall be referred to the Director of the Division of Water Quality
c/o the 401 Oversight Express Permitting Unit, or its successor, in writing.
The director’s determination is subject to review as provided in G.S. Ch. 150B,
Arts. 3 and 4;
               e.   Riparian buffers protected by this chapter shall be
measured pursuant to division (A)(5)(d) below;
               f.   Parties subject to this chapter shall abide by all state
rules and laws regarding waters of the state including, but not limited to,
Rules 15A NCAC 2B .0230 and .0231, Rules 15A NCAC 2H .0500, 15A NCAC 2H .1300,
and §§ 401 and 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act; and
               g.   No new clearing, grading or development shall take place,
nor shall any new building permits be issued in violation of this chapter.
         (b)   Exemption based on on-site determination. When a landowner or
other affected party including the Division believes that the maps have
inaccurately depicted surface waters, he or she shall consult the town. Upon
request, a town representative who has successfully completed the Division of
Water Quality’s surface water identification training certification course, its
successor or other equivalent training curriculum approved by the Division,
shall make an on-site determination. The town may also accept the results of
site assessments made by other parties who have successfully completed such
training. Any disputes over on-site determinations shall be referred to the
Director of the Division of Water Quality c/o the 401 Oversight Express
Permitting Unit, or its successor, in writing. A determination of the Director
as to the accuracy or application of the maps is subject to review as provided
in G.S. Ch. 150B, Arts. 3 and 4. Surface waters that appear on the maps shall
not be subject to these buffer requirements if a site evaluation reveals any of
the following cases:
            1.   Human-made ponds and lakes that are not part of a natural
drainage way that is classified in accordance with 15A NCAC 2B .0100, including
ponds and lakes created for animal watering, irrigation or other agricultural
uses; (A pond or lake is part of a natural drainage way when it is fed by an
intermittent or perennial stream or when it has a direct discharge point to an
intermittent or perennial stream.)
            2.   Ephemeral streams;
            3.   The absence on the ground of a corresponding intermittent or
perennial stream, lake, reservoir or pond; and
            4.   Ditches or other human-made water conveyances, other than
modified natural streams.
         (c)   Exemption when existing uses are present and ongoing. This
chapter shall not apply to uses that are existing and ongoing; however, this
chapter shall apply at the time an existing, ongoing use is changed to another
use. Change of use shall involve the initiation of any activity that does not
meet either of the following criteria for existing, ongoing activity:
            1.   It was present within the riparian buffer as of the effective
date of this chapter and has continued to exist since that time. Existing uses
shall include agriculture, buildings, industrial facilities, commercial areas,
transportation facilities, maintained lawns, utility lines and on-site sanitary
sewage systems, any of which involve either specific, periodic management of
vegetation or displacement of vegetation by structures or regular activity.
Only the portion of the riparian buffer occupied by the footprint of the
existing use is exempt from this chapter. Change of ownership through purchase
or inheritance is not a change of use. Activities necessary to maintain uses
are allowed; provided that, the site remains similarly vegetated, no impervious
surface is added within 50 feet of the surface water where it did not
previously exist as of the effective date of this chapter, and existing diffuse
flow is maintained. Grading and revegetating Zone Two is allowed; provided
that, the health of the vegetation in Zone One is not compromised, the ground
is stabilized and existing diffuse flow is maintained; and
            2.   Projects or proposed development that are determined by the
town to meet at least one of the following criteria:
               a.   Project requires a 401 Certification/404 Permit and these
were issued prior to the effective date this chapter, and prior to the
effective date of this chapter;
               b.   Projects that require a state permit, such as landfills.
NPDES wastewater discharges, land application of residuals and road
construction activities, have begun construction or are under contract to begin
construction and had received all required state permits and certifications
prior to the effective date of this chapter;
               c.   Projects that are being reviewed through the Clean Water
Act Section 404/National Environmental Policy Act Merger 01 Process (published
by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and Federal Highway Administration, 2003)
or its immediate successor and that have reached agreement with DENR on
avoidance and minimization by the effective date of this chapter; or
               d.   Projects that are not required to be reviewed by the Clean
Water Act Section 404/National Environmental Policy Act Merger 01 Process
(published by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and Federal Highway
Administration, 2003) or its immediate successor if a finding of no significant
impact has been issued for the project and the project has written approval of
the town prior to the effective date of this chapter.
         (d)   Zones of the riparian buffer. The protected riparian buffer
shall have two zones as follows.
            1.   Zone One shall consist of a vegetated area that is undisturbed
except for uses provided for in Table 30 below. The location of Zone One shall
be as follows: Zone One shall begin at the top of the bank and extend landward
a distance of 30 feet on all sides of the surface water, measured horizontally
on a line perpendicular to a vertical line marking the top of the bank. For
ponds, lakes and reservoirs located within a natural drainage way, Zone One
shall begin at the normal water level and extend landward a distance of 30
feet, measured horizontally on a line perpendicular to a vertical line marking
the normal water level.
            2.   Zone Two shall consist of a stable, vegetated area that is
undisturbed except for uses provided for in Table 30 below. Grading and
revegetating in Zone Two is allowed; provided that, the health of the
vegetation in Zone One is not compromised Zone Two shall begin at the outer
edge of Zone One and extend landward 20 feet as measured horizontally on a line
perpendicular to the surface water. The combined width of Zones One and Two
shall be 50 feet on all sides of the surface water.
         (e)   Diffuse flow requirements. Diffuse flow of runoff shall be
maintained in the riparian buffer by dispersing concentrated flow prior to its
entry into the buffer and reestablishing vegetation, as follows.
            1.   Concentrated runoff from new ditches or human-made conveyances
shall be converted to diffuse flow at non-erosive velocities before the runoff
Enters Zone Two of the riparian buffer;
            2.   Periodic corrective action to restore diffuse flow shall be
taken as necessary and shall be designed to impede the formation of erosion
gullies; and
            3.   As set out in Table 30 below. The zones of the riparian buffer
and table of uses respectively, no new storm water conveyances are allowed
through the buffers except for those specified in Table 30 below, addressing
storm water management ponds, drainage ditches, roadside ditches and storm
water conveyances.
      (6)   Potential uses and associated requirements.
         (a)   Approval for new development. The town shall issue an approval
for new development only if the development application proposes to avoid
impacts to riparian buffers defined herein, or where the application proposes
to impact such buffers, it demonstrates that the applicant has done the
following, as applicable:
            1.   Determined the activity is exempt from requirements of this
chapter;
            2.   Received an authorization certificate from the town pursuant
to division (A)(7)(a) below;
            3.   For uses designated as allowable with mitigation in Table 30
below, received approval of mitigation plan pursuant to division (A)(7)(c)
below; and
            4.   Received a variance pursuant to division (A)(7)(b) below.
         (b)   Table of uses. The following chart sets out potential new uses
within the buffer, or outside the buffer with impacts on the buffer, and
categorizes them as exempt, allowable or allowable with mitigation. All uses
not categorized as exempt, allowable or allowable with mitigation are
considered prohibited and may not proceed within the riparian buffer or outside
the buffer if the use would impact the buffer, unless a variance is granted
pursuant to division (A)(7)(b) below. The requirements for each category are
given in division (A)(6)(c) below, following the table of uses.
Table 30: Table of Uses
Use Exempt* Allowable * Allowable with Mitigation *
Table 30: Table of Uses
                                                                                                  Allowable
Use                                                                             Exempt* Allowable with
                                                                                        *         Mitigation
                                                                                                  *
Access trails
   Pedestrian access trails leading to the surface water, docks, fishing piers,
boat ramps and other water-dependent activities
      Pedestrian access trails that are restricted to the minimum width
practicable and do not exceed 4 feet in width of buffer disturbance; and,
provided that, installation and use does not result in removal of trees as      X
defined in this chapter and no impervious surface is added to the riparian
buffer
      Pedestrian access trails that exceed 4 feet in width of buffer
disturbance, the installation or use results in removal of trees as defined in          X
this chapter or impervious surface is added to the riparian buffer
Airport facilities
   Airport facilities that impact equal to or less than 150 linear feet or 1/        X
3 of an acre of riparian buffer
   Airport facilities that impact greater than 150 linear feet or 1/3 of an  X
acre of riparian buffer
   Activities necessary to comply with FAA requirements (e.g., radar uses or         X
landing strips)1
Archaeological activities                                                       X
Bridges                                                                                 X
Canoe access; provided that, installation and use does not result in removal of
trees as defined in this chapter and no impervious surface is added to the      X
buffer
Dam maintenance activities
   Dam maintenance activities that do not cause additional buffer disturbance
beyond the footprint of the existing dam or those covered under the U.S. Army   X
Corps of Engineers Nationwide Permit No. 3
   Dam maintenance activities that do cause additional buffer disturbance
beyond the footprint of the existing dam or those not covered under the U.S.            X
Army Corps of Engineers Nationwide Permit No. 3
Drainage ditches, roadside ditches and storm water conveyances through riparian buffers
   New storm water flows to existing drainage ditches, roadside ditches and
storm water conveyances; provided, flows do not alter or result in the need to  X
alter the conveyance and are managed to minimize the sediment, nutrients and
other pollution that convey to waterbodies
   Realignment of existing roadside drainage ditches retaining the design
dimensions; provided that, no additional travel lanes are added and the minimum         X
required roadway typical section is used based on traffic and safety
considerations
   New or altered drainage ditches, roadside ditches and storm water outfalls;
provided that, a storm water management facility is installed to control                X
nutrients and attenuate flow before the conveyance discharges through the
riparian buffer
   New drainage ditches, roadside ditches and storm water conveyances
applicable to linear projects that do not provide a storm water management                        X
facility due to topography constraints provided that other practicable BMPs are
employed
Driveway crossings of streams and other surface waters subject to this chapter
   Driveway crossings on single-family residential lots that disturb equal toX
or less than 25 linear feet or 2,500 square feet of riparian buffer
   Driveway crossings on single-family residential lots that disturb greater         X               
than 25 linear feet or 2,500 square feet of riparian buffer
   In a subdivision that cumulatively disturb equal to or less than 150 linear       X
feet or 1/3 of an acre of riparian buffer
   In a subdivision that cumulatively disturb greater than 150 linear feet or                  X
1/3 of an acre of riparian buffer
   Driveway impacts other than crossing of a stream or other surface waters                    X
subject to this chapter
Fences
   Fences; provided that, disturbance is minimized and installation does not X
result in removal of trees as defined in this chapter
   Fences; provided that, disturbance is minimized and installation results in       X
removal of trees as defined in this chapter
Fertilizer application: one-time application to establish vegetation            X
Grading and revegetation in Zone Two; provided that, diffuse flow and the
health of existing vegetation in Zone One is not compromised and disturbed      X
areas are stabilized until they are revegetated
Greenway/hiking trails designed, constructed and maintained to maximize
nutrient removal and erosion protection, minimize adverse effects on aquatic            X
life and habitat and protect water quality to the maximum extent practical
Historic preservation                                                           X
Maintenance access on modified natural streams: a grassed travel way on one
side of the waterbody when less impacting alternatives are not practical. The
width and specifications of the travel way shall be only that needed for                X
equipment access and operation. The travel way shall be located to maximize
stream shading
Mining activities
   Mining activities that are covered by the Mining Act; provided that, new
riparian buffers that meet the requirements of §                                       X
151.233(A)(6)(d) and (A)(6)(e) of this chapter are established adjacent to the
relocated channels
   Mining activities that are not covered by the Mining Act or where new
riparian buffers that meet the requirements of §                                                 X
151.233(A)(6)(d) and (A)(6)(e) of this chapter are not established adjacent to
the relocated channels
Wastewater or mining dewatering wells with approved NPDES permit                X
Playground equipment
   Playground equipment on single-family lots; provided that, installation anX
use does not result in removal of vegetation
   Playground equipment installed on lands other than single-family lots or          X
that requires removal of vegetation
Ponds created by impounding streams and not used as storm water BMPs                    X
   New ponds; provided that, a riparian buffer that meets the requirements of §               X
151.233(A)(6)(d) and (A)(6)(e) is established adjacent to the pond
   New ponds where a riparian buffer that meets the requirements of §                         X
151.233(A)(6)(d) and (A)(6)(e) is not established adjacent to the pond
   Protection of existing structures, facilities and stream banks when this          X
requires additional disturbance of the riparian buffer or the stream channel
Railroad impacts other than crossings of streams and other surface waters subject to this chapter
   Railroad crossings of streams and other surface waters subject to this                      X
chapter
   Railroad crossings that impact equal to or less than 40 linear feet of    X
riparian buffer
   Railroad crossings that impact greater than 40 linear feet, but equal to or       X
less than 150 linear feet or 1/3 of an acre of riparian buffer
   Railroad crossings that impact greater than 150 linear feet or 1/3 of an                    X
acre of riparian buffer
Recreational and accessory structures in Zone Two: sheds and gazebos in Zone Two; provided, they are not
prohibited under local water supply ordinance
   Total footprint less than or equal to 150 square feet per lot                     X
   Total footprint greater than 150 square feet per lot                                        X
Wooden slatted decks and associated steps; provided, the use meets the requirements of §
151.233(A)(6)(d) and (A)(6)(e)
   Deck at least 8 feet in height and no vegetation removed from Zone One            X
   Deck less than 8 feet in height or vegetation removed from Zone One                         X
Removal of previous fill or debris provided that diffuse flow is maintained and X
vegetation is restored
Road impacts other than crossings of streams and other surface waters subject                     X
to this chapter
Road crossings of streams and other surface waters subject to this chapter
   Road crossings that impact equal to or less than 40 linear feet of ripariaX
buffer
   Road crossings that impact greater than 40 linear feet, but equal to or less      X
than 150 linear feet or 1/3 of an acre of riparian buffer
   Road crossings that impact greater than 150 linear feet or 1/3 of an acre of                X
riparian buffer
Road relocation: relocation of existing private access roads associated with public road projects where
necessary for public safety
   Less than or equal to 2,500 square feet of buffer impact                          X
   Greater than 2,500 square feet of buffer impact                                             X
Storm water BMPs
   Wet detention, bioretention and constructed wetlands in Zone Two if diffuse       X
flow of discharge is provided into Zone One
   Wet detention, bioretention and constructed wetlands in Zone One                            X
Scientific studies and stream gauging                                           X
Streambank or shoreline stabilization                                                   X
Temporary roads; provided that, the disturbed area is restored to pre-construction topographic and
hydrologic conditions immediately after construction is complete and replanted immediately with comparable
vegetation; except that, tree planting may occur during the dormant season. A one-time application of
fertilizer may be used to establish vegetation At the end of 5 years, the restored buffer shall comply with
the restoration criteria in §
151.233(A)(7)(c)7. of this chapter
   Less than or equal to 2,500 square feet of buffer disturbance             X
   Greater than 2,500 square feet of buffer disturbance                              X
   Associated with culvert installation or bridge construction or replacement        X
Temporary sediment- and erosion-control devices; provided that, the disturbed area is restored to pre-
construction topographic and hydrologic conditions immediately after construction is complete and replanted
immediately with comparable vegetation; except that, tree planting may occur during the dormant season. A
one-time application of fertilizer may be used to establish vegetation. At the end of 5 years, the restored
buffer shall comply with the restoration criteria in §
151.233(A)(7)(c)7. of this chapter
   In Zone Two; provided, ground cover is established within timeframes
required by the Sedimentation and Erosion Control Act, vegetation in Zone One   X
is not compromised and runoff is released as diffuse flow in accordance with §
151.233(A)(6)(e)
   In Zones One and Two, to control impacts associated with uses approved by
the town or that have received a variance; provided that, sediment and erosion          X
control for upland areas is addressed, to the maximum extent practical, outside
the buffer
   In-stream temporary erosion and sediment control measures for work within a
stream channel that is authorized under §§ 401 and 404 of the Federal Water   X
Pollution Control Act
   In-stream temporary erosion and sediment control measures for work within a       X
stream channel
Utility, electric, aerial, perpendicular crossings of stream and other surface waters subject to this
chapter2,3,5
   Disturb equal to or less than 150 linear feet of riparian buffer          X
   Disturb greater than 150 linear feet of riparian buffer                           X
Utility, electric, aerial, other than perpendicular crossings5
   Impacts in Zone Two                                                               X
   Impacts in Zone One2 3                                                                      X
Utility, electric, underground, perpendicular crossings3,4,5
   Disturb less than or equal to 40 linear feet of riparian buffer           X
   Disturb greater than 40 linear feet of riparian buffer                            X
Utility, electric, underground, other than perpendicular crossings4
   Impacts in Zone Two                                                       X
   Impacts in Zone One1                                                      X
Utility, non-electric, perpendicular crossings of streams and other surface waters subject to this
chapter3,5
   Disturb equal to or less than 40 linear feet of riparian buffer with a    X
maintenance corridor equal to or less than 10 feet in width
   Disturb equal to or less than 40 linear feet of riparian buffer with a            X
maintenance corridor greater than 10 feet in width
   Disturb greater than 40 linear feet, but equal to or less than 150 linear
feet of riparian buffer with a maintenance corridor equal to or less than 10            X
feet in width
   Disturb greater than 40 linear feet, but equal to or less than 150 linear
feet of riparian buffer with a maintenance corridor greater than 10 feet in                       X
width
   Disturb greater than 150 linear feet of riparian buffer                                     X
Utility, non-electric, other than perpendicular crossings4,5
   Impacts in Zone Two                                                               X
   Impacts in Zone One1                                                                        X
Vegetation management
   Emergency fire control measures; provided that, topography is restored    X
   Mowing or harvesting of plant products in Zone Two                        X
   Planting vegetation to enhance the riparian buffer                        X
   Pruning forest vegetation; provided that, the health and function of the  X
forest vegetation is not compromised
   Removal of individual trees that are in danger of causing damage to
dwellings, other structures or human life or are imminently endangering         X
stability of the streambank
   Removal of individual trees which are dead, diseased or damaged           X
   Removal of poison ivy                                                     X
   Removal of invasive exotic vegetation as defined in: Smith. Cherri L. 1998,
Exotic Plant Guidelines, Dept. of Environment and Natural Resources, Division   X
of Parks and Recreation, Raleigh, NC. Guideline #30
Vehicular access roads leading to water-dependent structures as defined in 15A
NCAC 02B .0202; provided, they do not cross the surface water and have minimum          X
practicable width not exceeding 10 feet
Water dependent structures as defined in 15A NCAC 02B .0202 where installation          X
and use result in disturbance to riparian buffers
Water supply reservoirs
   New reservoirs where a riparian buffer that meets the requirements of §
151.233A)(6)(d) and (A)(6)(e) of this chapter is established adjacent to the            X
reservoir
   New reservoirs where a riparian buffer that meets the requirements of §
151.233(A)(6)(d) and (A)(6)(e) of this chapter is not established adjacent to                     X
the reservoir
Water wells
   Single-family residential water wells                                     X
   All other water wells                                                             X
Wetland, stream and buffer restoration that results in impacts to the riparian buffers
   Wetland, stream and buffer restoration that requires State Division of WatXr
Quality approval for the use of a 401 Water Quality Certification
   Wetland, stream and buffer restoration that does not require Division of          X
Water Quality approval for the use of a 401 Water Quality Certification
Wildlife passage structures1                                                            X
Notes to Table:
* To qualify for the designation indicated in the column header, an activity must adhere to the limitations
defined for it in a given listing as well as the requirements established in §
151.233(A)(6)(c) of this chapter
1 Provided that:
   -No heavy equipment is used in Zone One;
   -Vegetation in undisturbed portions of the buffer is not compromised;
   -Felled trees are removed by chain;
   -No permanent felling of trees occurs in protected buffers or streams;
   -Stumps are removed only by grinding;
   -At the completion of the project, the disturbed area is stabilized with native vegetation; and
   -Zones One and Two meet the requirements of §
151.233(A)(6)(d) and (A)(6)(e) of this chapter.
2 Provided that:
   -In Zone One, all of the following BMPs for overhead utility lines are used. If all of these BMPs are not
used, then the overhead utility lines shall require a no practical alternative evaluation by the town, as
defined in §
151.233(A)(7)(a) of this chapter;
   -A minimum zone of 10 feet wide immediately adjacent to the waterbody shall be managed such that only
vegetation that poses a hazard or has the potential to grow tall enough to interfere with the line is
removed;
   -Woody vegetation shall be cleared by hand. No land grubbing or grading is allowed;
   -Vegetative root systems shall be left intact to maintain the integrity of the soil. Stumps shall remain
where trees are cut;
   -Riprap shall not be used unless it is necessary to stabilize a tower;
   -No fertilizer shall be used other than a one-time application to re-establish vegetation;
   -Construction activities shall minimize the removal of woody vegetation, the extent of the disturbed area
and the time in which areas remain in a disturbed state;
   -Active measures shall be taken after construction and during routine maintenance to ensure diffuse flow
of storm water through the buffer; and
   -In wetlands, mats shall be utilized to minimize soil disturbance.
3 Provided that, poles or aerial infrastructure shall not be installed within ten feet of a waterbody unless
the town completes a no practical alternative evaluation as defined in §
151.233(A)(7)(a) of this chapter.
4 Provided that:
   -In Zone One, all of the following BMPs for underground utility lines are used;
   -If all of these BMPs are not used, then the underground utility line shall require a no practical
alternative evaluation by the town, as defined in §
151.233(A)(7)(a) of this chapter;
   -Woody vegetation shall be cleared by hand. No land grubbing or grading is allowed;
   -Vegetative root systems shall be left intact to maintain the integrity of the soil. Stumps shall remain,
except in the trench where trees are cut. Underground cables shall be installed by vibratory plow or
trenching;
   -The trench shall be backfilled with the excavated soil material immediately following cable
installation;
   -No fertilizer shall be used other than a 1-time application to re-establish vegetation;
   -Construction activities shall minimize the removal of woody vegetation, the extent of the disturbed area
and the time in which areas remain in a disturbed state; and
   -Measures shall be taken upon completion of construction and during routine maintenance to ensure diffuse
flow of storm water through the buffer. In wetlands, mats shall be utilized to minimize soil disturbance.
5 Perpendicular crossings are those that intersect the surface water at an angle between 75 degrees and 105
degrees.
 
         (c)   Requirements for categories of uses. Uses designated in division
(A)(6)(b) above, as exempt, allowable and allowable with mitigation within a
riparian buffer shall have the following requirements.
            1.   Exempt. Uses designated as exempt are permissible without
authorization by the town provided that they adhere to the limitations of the
activity as defined in division (A)(6)(b) above. In addition, exempt uses shall
be designed, constructed and maintained to minimize soil disturbance and to
provide the maximum water quality protection practicable, including
construction, monitoring and maintenance activities.
            2.   Allowable. Uses designated as allowable may proceed provided
that there are no practical alternatives to the requested use pursuant to
division (A)(7)(a) below. This includes construction, monitoring and
maintenance activities. These uses require written authorization from the town.
            3.   Allowable with mitigation. Uses designated as allowable with
mitigation may proceed; provided that, there are no practical alternatives to
the requested use pursuant to division (A)(7)(a) below and an appropriate
mitigation strategy has been approved pursuant to division (A)(7)(a) below.
These uses require written authorization from the town.
      (7)   Permits procedures, requirements and approvals.
         (a)   Determination of no practical alternatives/request for
authorization certificate.
            1.   Persons who wish to undertake uses designated as allowable or
allowable with mitigation shall submit a request for a “no practical
alternatives” determination to the town. The applicant shall certify that the
project meets all the following criteria for finding “no practical
alternatives”:
               a.   The basic project purpose cannot be practically
accomplished in a manner that would better minimize disturbance, preserve
aquatic life and habitat and protect water quality;
               b.   The use cannot practically be reduced in size or density,
reconfigured or redesigned to better minimize disturbance, preserve aquatic
life and habitat and protect water quality; and
               c.   Best management practices shall be used if necessary to
minimize disturbance, preserve aquatic life and habitat, and protect water
quality.
            2.   The applicant shall also submit at least the following
information in support of their assertion of “no practical alternatives”:
               a.   The name, address and phone number of the applicant;
               b.   The nature of the activity to be conducted by the
applicant;
               c.   The location of the activity, including the jurisdiction;
               d.   A map of sufficient detail to accurately delineate the
boundaries of the land to be utilized in carrying out the activity, the
location and dimensions of any disturbance in riparian buffers associated with
the activity and the extent of riparian buffers on the land;
               e.   An explanation of why this plan for the activity cannot be
practically accomplished, reduced or reconfigured to better minimize
disturbance to the riparian buffer, preserve aquatic life and habitat and
protect water quality; and
               f.   Plans for any best management practices proposed to be used
to control the impacts associated with the activity.
            3.   Within 60 days of a submission that addresses division (A)(7)
(a)2. above, the town shall review the entire project and make a finding of
fact as to whether the criteria in division (A)(7)(a)1. above have been met. A
finding of “no practical alternatives” shall result in issuance of an
authorization certificate. Failure to act within 60 days shall be construed as
a finding of “no practical alternatives” and an authorization certificate shall
be issued to the applicant unless one of the following occurs:
               a.   The applicant agrees, in writing, to a longer period;
               b.   The town determines that the applicant has failed to
furnish requested information necessary to the town decision;
               c.   The final decision is to be made pursuant to a public
hearing; or
               d.   The applicant refuses access to its records or premises for
the purpose of gathering information necessary to the town’s decision.
            4.   The town may attach conditions to the authorization
certificate that support the purpose, spirit and intent of this chapter.
            5.   Any appeals of determinations regarding authorization
certificates shall be referred to the Director of the Division of Water
Quality, c/o the 401 Oversight Express Permitting Unit, or its successor. The
Director’s decision is subject to review as provided in G.S. Ch. 150B, Arts. 3
and 4.
         (b)   Variances.
            1.   Requirements for variances. Persons who wish to undertake
prohibited uses may pursue a variance. The town may grant minor variances. For
major variances, the town shall prepare preliminary findings and submit them to
the Division of Water Quality, 401 Oversight Express Permitting Unit, or its
successor for approval by the environmental management commission. The variance
request procedure shall be as follows.
               a.   For any variance request, the town shall make a finding of
fact as to whether there are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships
that prevent compliance with the riparian buffer protection requirements. A
finding of practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships shall require that
the following conditions are met.
                  i.   If the applicant complies with the provisions of this
chapter, he or she can secure no reasonable return from, nor make reasonable
use of, his/her property. Merely proving that the variance would permit a
greater profit from the property shall not be considered adequate justification
for a variance. Moreover, the town shall consider whether the variance is the
minimum possible deviation from the terms of this chapter that shall make
reasonable use of the property possible.
                  ii.   The hardship results from application of this chapter
to the property rather than from other factors such as deed restrictions or
other hardship.
                  iii.   The hardship is due to the physical nature of the
applicant’s property, such as its size, shape or topography, such that
compliance with provisions of this chapter would not allow reasonable use of
the property.
                  iv.   The applicant did not cause the hardship by knowingly
or unknowingly violating this chapter.
                  v.   The applicant did not purchase the property after the
effective date of this chapter and then request a variance.
                  vi.   The hardship is rare or unique to the applicant’s
property.
               b.   The variance is in harmony with the general purpose and
intent of the state’s riparian buffer protection requirements and this chapter
and preserves its spirit; and
               c.   In granting the variance, the public safety and welfare
have been assured, water quality has been protected and substantial justice has
been done.
            2.   Minor variances. A minor variance request pertains to
activities that will impact only Zone Two of the riparian buffer. Minor
variance requests shall be reviewed and approved based on the criteria in
divisions (A)(7)(a)1. through (A)(7)(a)3. above by the town pursuant to G.S.
Ch. 160D. The town may attach conditions to the variance approval that support
the purpose, spirit and intent of the riparian buffer protection program.
Request for appeals to decisions made by the town shall be made in writing to
the Director of the Division of Water Quality c/o the 401 Oversight Express
Permitting Unit, or its successor. The Director’s decision is subject to review
as provided in G.S. Ch. 150B, Arts. 3 and 4.
            3.   Major variances. A major variance request pertains to
activities that will impact any portion of Zone One or any portion of both
Zones One and Two of the riparian buffer. If the town has determined that a
major variance request meets the requirements in division (A)(7)(b)1. above,
then it shall prepare a preliminary finding and submit it to the state’s
Environmental Management Commission, c/o the Division of Water Quality, 401
Oversight Express Permitting Unit, or its successor, for approval. Within 90
days after receipt by the town, the Commission shall review preliminary
findings on major variance requests and take one of the following actions:
approve, approve with conditions and stipulations or deny the request. Appeals
from a Commission decision on a major variance request are made on judicial
review to superior court.
         (c)   Mitigation.
            1.   This item shall apply to persons who wish to impact a riparian
buffer in the Jordan watershed when one of the following applies:
               a.   A person has received an authorization certificate pursuant
to division (A)(7)(a) above for a proposed use that is designated as “allowable
with mitigation;” or
               b.   A person has received a variance pursuant to division (A)
(7)(b) above and is required to perform mitigation as a condition of a variance
approval.
            2.   Issuance of the mitigation approval. Stokesdale shall issue a
mitigation approval upon determining that a proposal meets the requirements set
out in this chapter. The approval shall identify at a minimum the option
chosen, the required and proposed areas and either the mitigation location or
the offset payment amount as applicable.
            3.   Options for meeting the mitigation requirement. The mitigation
requirement may be met through one of the following options:
               a.   Payment of a compensatory mitigation fee to the Riparian
Buffer Restoration Fund pursuant to 15A NCAC 02B .0269 (Jordan Water Supply
Nutrient Strategy: Riparian Buffer Mitigation Fees to the N.C. Ecosystem
Enhancement Program) contingent upon acceptance of payments by the N.C.
Ecosystem Enhancement Program, or to a private mitigation bank that complies
with banking requirements of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, currently set
out at http://www.saw.usace.army.mil/WETLANDS/Mitigation/mitbanks.html or from
the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, P.O. Box 1890, Wilmington, NC, 28402-1890,
and the applicable trading criteria in Rule 15A NCAC 02B .0273;
               b.   Donation of real property or of an interest in real
property pursuant to division (A)(7)(c)6. below; or
               c.   Restoration or enhancement of a non-forested riparian
buffer pursuant to the requirements of division (A)(7)(c)7. below.
            4.   The area of mitigation. Stokesdale shall determine the
required area of mitigation, which shall apply to all mitigation options
identified in division (A)(7)(c)3. above and as further specified in the
requirements for each option set out in this section, according to the
following:
               a.   The impacts in square feet to each zone of the riparian
buffer shall be determined by the town by adding the following:
                  i.   The area of the footprint of the use causing the impact
to the riparian buffer;
                  ii.   The area of the boundary of any clearing and grading
activities within the riparian buffer necessary to accommodate the use; and
                  iii.   The area of any ongoing maintenance corridors within
the riparian buffer associated with the use.
               b.   The required area of mitigation shall be determined by
applying the following multipliers to the impacts determined in division (A)(7)
(c)4.a. above to each zone of the riparian buffer:
                  i.   Impacts to Zone One of the riparian buffer shall be
multiplied by three;
                  ii.   Impacts to Zone Two of the riparian buffer shall be
multiplied by one and one-half; and
                  iii.   Impacts to wetlands within Zones One and Two of the
riparian buffer that are subject to mitigation under 15A NCAC 2H .0506 shall
comply with the mitigation ratios in 15A NCAC 2H .0506.
            5.   The location of mitigation. For any option chosen, the
mitigation effort shall be located within the same subwatershed of the Jordan
watershed, as defined in 15A NCAC 02B.0262, and the same distance from the
Jordan Reservoir as the proposed impact, or closer to the reservoir than the
impact, and as close to the location of the impact as feasible. Alternatively,
the applicant may propose mitigation anywhere within the same subwatershed of
the Jordan watershed, as defined in 15A NCAC 02B.0262; provided that, the
mitigation proposal accounts for differences in delivery of nutrients to the
affected arm of Jordan Reservoir resulting from differences between the
locations of the buffer impact and mitigation. Additional location requirements
for the property donation option are enumerated in division (A)(7)(c)6.c.i.
below
            6.   Donation of property. Persons who choose to satisfy their
mitigation determination by donating real property or an interest in real
property shall meet the following requirements:
               a.   The donation of real property interests may be used to
either partially or fully satisfy the payment of a compensatory mitigation fee
to the Riparian Buffer Restoration Fund pursuant to 15A NCAC 02B .0269. The
value of the property interest shall be determined by an appraisal performed in
accordance with division (A)(7)(c)4.d.iv. below. The donation shall satisfy the
mitigation determination if the appraised value of the donated property
interest is equal to or greater than the required fee. If the appraised value
of the donated property interest is less than the required fee calculated
pursuant to 15A NCAC 02B .0269, the applicant shall pay the remaining balance
due.
               b.   The donation of conservation easements to satisfy
compensatory mitigation requirements shall be accepted only if the conservation
easement is granted in perpetuity.
               c.   Donation of real property interests to satisfy the
mitigation determination shall be accepted only if such property meets all of
the following requirements:
                  i.   In addition to the location requirements of division (A)
(7)(c)4. above, the property shall be located within an area that is identified
as a priority for restoration in, or is otherwise consistent with the goals of,
the Basinwide Wetlands and Riparian Restoration Plan for the Cape Fear River
Basin developed by the state’s Division of Water Quality, pursuant to G.S. §
143-214.10;
                  ii.   The property shall contain riparian buffers not
currently protected by the state’s riparian buffer protection program that are
in need of restoration as defined in division (A)(7)(c)7.d. below;
                  iii.   The restorable riparian buffer on the property shall
have a minimum length of 1,000 linear feet along a surface water and a minimum
width of 50 feet as measured horizontally on a line perpendicular to the
surface water;
                  iv.   The size of the restorable riparian buffer on the
property to be donated shall equal or exceed the area of mitigation
responsibility determined pursuant to division (A)(7)(c)4. above;
                  v.   Restoration shall not require removal of human-made
structures or infrastructure;
                  vi.   The property shall be suitable to be successfully
restored, based on existing hydrology, soils and vegetation;
                  vii.   The estimated cost of restoring and maintaining the
property shall not exceed the value of the property minus site identification
and transaction costs;
                  viii.   The property shall not contain any building,
structure, object, site or district that is listed in the National Register of
Historic Places established pursuant to Public Law 89-665, 16 U.S.C. § 470, as
amended;
                  ix.   The property shall not contain any hazardous substance
or solid waste;
                  x.   The property shall not contain structures or materials
that present health or safety problems to the general public. If wells, septic,
water or sewer connections exist, they shall be filled, remediated or closed at
owner’s expense in accordance with state and local health and safety
regulations;
                  xi.   The property and adjacent properties shall not have
prior, current and known future land use that would inhibit the function of the
restoration effort; and
                  xii.   The property shall not have any encumbrances or
conditions on the transfer of the property interests.
               d.   At the expense of the applicant or donor, the following
information shall be submitted to the town with any proposal for donations or
dedications of interest in real property:
                  i.   Documentation that the property meets the requirements
laid out in division (A)(7)(c)6.c. above;
                  ii.   U.S. Geological Survey one to 24,000 (seven and one-
half minute) scale topographic map, county tax map, USDA Natural Resource
Conservation Service County Soil Survey Map and county road map showing the
location of the property to be donated along with information on existing site
conditions, vegetation types, presence of existing structures and easements;
                  iii.   A current property survey performed in accordance with
the procedures of the state’s Department of Administration, State Property
Office, as identified by the state’s Board of Registration for Professional
Engineers and Land Surveyors in “Standards of Practice for Land Surveying in
North Carolina”. Copies may be obtained from the state’s Board of Registration
for Professional Engineers and Land Surveyors, 3620 Six Forks Road, Suite 300,
Raleigh, North Carolina 27609;
                  iv.   A current appraisal of the value of the property
performed in accordance with the procedures of the state’s Department of
Administration, State Property Office, as identified by the appraisal board in
the “Uniform Standards of Professional North Carolina Appraisal Practice”.
Copies may be obtained from the Appraisal Foundation, Publications Department,
P.O. Box 96734, Washington, D.C. 20090-6734; and
                  v.   A title certificate.
            7.   Riparian buffer restoration or enhancement. Persons who choose
to meet their mitigation requirement through riparian buffer restoration or
enhancement shall meet the following requirements:
               a.   The applicant may restore or enhance a non-forested
riparian buffer if either of the following applies:
                  i.   The area of riparian buffer restoration is equal to the
required area of mitigation determined pursuant to division (A)(7)(c)4. above;
or
                  ii.   The area of riparian buffer enhancement is three times
larger than the required area of mitigation determined pursuant to division (A)
(7)(c)4. above.
               b.   The location of the riparian buffer restoration or
enhancement shall comply with the requirements in division (A)(7)(c)5. above;
               c.   The riparian buffer restoration or enhancement site shall
have a minimum width of 50 feet as measured horizontally on a line
perpendicular to the surface water;
               d.   Enhancement and restoration shall both have the objective
of establishing a forested riparian buffer according to the requirements of
this division (A)(7)(c). Enhancement shall be distinguished from restoration
based on existing buffer conditions. Where existing trees are sparse, that is
greater than or equal to 100 trees per acre, but less than 200 trees per acre,
a buffer may be enhanced. Where existing woody vegetation is absent, that is
less than 100 trees per acre, a buffer may be restored;
               e.   The applicant shall first receive an authorization
certificate for the proposed use according to the requirements of division (A)
(7)(a) above. After receiving this determination, the applicant shall submit a
restoration or enhancement plan for approval by the town. The restoration or
enhancement plan shall contain the following:
                  i.   A map of the proposed restoration or enhancement site;
                  ii.   A vegetation plan. The vegetation plan shall include a
minimum of at least two native hardwood tree species planted at a density
sufficient to provide 320 trees per acre at maturity;
                  iii.   A grading plan. The site shall be graded in a manner
to ensure diffuse flow through the riparian buffer;
                  iv.   A fertilization plan;
                  v.   A schedule for implementation;
                  vi.   Within one year after the town has approved the
restoration or enhancement plan, the applicant shall present proof to the town
that the riparian buffer has been restored or enhanced. If proof is not
presented within this timeframe, then the person shall be in violation of both
the state’s and the town’s riparian buffer protection program.
         (g)   The mitigation area shall be placed under a perpetual
conservation easement that will provide for protection of the property’s
nutrient removal functions; and
         (h)   The applicant shall submit annual reports for a period of five
years after the restoration or enhancement showing that the trees planted have
survived and that diffuse flow through the riparian buffer has been maintained.
The applicant shall replace trees that do not survive and restore diffuse flow
if needed during that five-year period.
         (i)   Site inspections and enforcement.
            1.   Agents, officials or other qualified persons authorized by the
town may periodically inspect riparian buffers to ensure compliance with this
chapter.
            2.   Notice of the right to inspect shall be included in the letter
of approval of each variance and buffer authorization.
            3.   Authorized agents, officials or other qualified persons shall
have the authority, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter and
inspect at reasonable times any property, public or private, for the purpose of
investigating and inspecting the site of any riparian buffer. No person shall
willfully resist, delay or obstruct an authorized representative, employee or
agent of the town, while that person is inspecting or attempting to inspect a
riparian buffer nor shall any person obstruct, hamper or interfere with any
such representative while in the process of carrying out their official duties.
The town shall have the power to conduct such investigations as deemed
reasonably necessary to carry out the duties as prescribed in this chapter.
            4.   Any person engaged in new activities as defined by this
chapter who fails to meet the requirements of this chapter shall be deemed in
violation of this chapter and subject to enforcement actions under §§
151.045 through
151.052,
151.277,
151.278 and
151.999 of this chapter.
         (i)   Definitions. For the purpose of the Jordan Watershed, these
terms shall be defined as follows.
            ACCESS TRAILS. Pedestrian trails constructed of pervious or
impervious surfaces and related structures to access a surface water, including
boardwalks, steps, rails and signage.
            AIRPORT FACILITIES. All properties, facilities, buildings,
structures and activities that satisfy or otherwise fall within the scope of
one or more of the definitions or uses of the words or phrases “air navigation
facility”, “airport” or “airport protection privileges” under G.S. § 63-1; the
definition of “aeronautical facilities” in G.S. § 63-79(1); the phrase “airport
facilities” as used in G.S. § 159-48(b)(1); the phrase “aeronautical
facilities” as defined in G.S. §§ 159-81 and 159-97; and the phrase “airport
facilities and improvements” as used in Art. V, § 13, of the North Carolina
Constitution, which shall include, without limitation, any and all of the
following: airports, airport maintenance facilities, clear zones, drainage
ditches, fields, hangars, landing lighting, airport and airport-related
offices, parking facilities, related navigational and signal systems, runways,
storm water outfalls, terminals, terminal shops and all appurtenant areas used
or suitable for airport buildings or other airport facilities, and all
appurtenant rights-of-way, restricted landing areas; any structures,
mechanisms, lights, beacons, marks, communicating systems or other
instrumentalities or devices used or useful as an aid, or constituting an
advantage or convenience to the safe taking off, navigation and landing of
aircraft, or the safe and efficient operation or maintenance of an airport or
restricted landing area; easements through, or interests in, air space over
land or water, interests in airport hazards outside the boundaries of airports
or restricted landing areas, and other protection privileges, the acquisition
or control of which is necessary to ensure safe approaches to the landing areas
of airports and restricted landing areas, and the safe and efficient operation
thereof and any combination of any or all of such facilities. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, the following shall not be included in the definition of AIRPORT
FACILITIES:
               a.   Satellite parking facilities;
               b.   Retail and commercial development outside of the terminal
area, such as rental car facilities; and
               c.   Other secondary development, such as hotels, industrial
facilities, freestanding offices and other similar buildings, so long as these
facilities are not directly associated with the operation of the airport, and
are not operated by a unit of government or special governmental entity such as
an airport authority, in which case they are included in the definition of
AIRPORT FACILITIES.
            CHANNEL. A natural water-carrying trough cut vertically into low
areas of the land surface by erosive action of concentrated flowing water or a
ditch or canal excavated for the flow of water.
            DBH. Diameter at breast height of a tree measured at four and one-
half feet above ground surface level.
            DEVELOPMENT. The same as defined in Rule 15A NCAC 2B .0202(23).
            DITCH or CANAL. A human-made channel other than a modified natural
stream constructed for drainage purposes that is typically dug through inter-
stream divide areas. A DITCH or CANAL may have flows that are perennial,
intermittent or ephemeral and may exhibit hydrological and biological
characteristics similar to perennial or intermittent streams.
            EPHEMERAL STREAM. A feature that carries only storm water in direct
response to precipitation with water flowing only during and shortly after
large precipitation events. An EPHEMERAL STREAM may or may not have a well-
defined channel, the aquatic bed is always above the water table, and storm
water runoff is the primary source of water. An EPHEMERAL STREAM typically
lacks the biological, hydrological and physical characteristics commonly
associated with the continuous or intermittent conveyance of water.
            EXISTING DEVELOPMENT. Development, other than that associated with
agricultural or forest management activities, that meets one of the following
criteria:
               a.   It either is built or has established a vested right based
on statutory or common law as interpreted by the courts, for projects that do
not require a state permit, as of the effective date of either local new
development storm water programs implemented under Rule 15A NCAC 2B .0265
(Jordan Water Supply Nutrient Strategy: Storm water Management for New
Development) or, for projects requiring a state permit, as of the applicable
compliance date established in Rule 15A NCAC 2B .0271 (Jordan Water Supply
Nutrient Strategy: Storm Water Management for New Development), Subsections (5)
and (6); or
               b.   It occurs after the compliance date set out in subsection
(4)(d) of Rule .0265 (Jordan Water Supply Nutrient Strategy: Storm water
Management for New Development), but does not result in a net increase in
built-upon area.
            GREENWAY/HIKING TRAILS. Pedestrian trails constructed of pervious
or impervious surfaces and related structures including, but not limited to,
boardwalks, steps, rails and signage, and that generally run parallel to the
shoreline.
            HIGH VALUE TREE. A tree that meets or exceeds the following
standards; for pine species, 14-inch DBH or greater or 18-inch or greater stump
diameter; or for hardwoods and wetland species, 16-inch DBH or greater or 24-
inch or greater stump diameter.
            INTERMITTENT STREAM. A well-defined channel that contains water for
only part of the year, typically during winter and spring when the aquatic bed
is below the water table. The flow may be heavily supplemented by storm water
runoff. An INTERMITTENT STREAM often lacks the biological and hydrological
characteristics commonly associated with the continuous conveyance of water.
            JORDAN NUTRIENT STRATEGY or JORDAN WATER SUPPLY NUTRIENT STRATEGY.
The set of Rules 15A NCAC 2B .0262 through .0273 and .0311(p).
            JORDAN RESERVOIR. The surface water impoundment operated by the
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and named B. Everett Jordan Reservoir, as further
delineated for purposes of the Jordan nutrient strategy in Rule 15A NCAC 2B
.0262(4).
            JORDAN WATERSHED. All lands and waters draining to B. Everett
Jordan Reservoir.
            NEW DEVELOPMENT. Any development project that does not meet the
definition of existing development set out in this chapter.
            PERENNIAL STREAM. A well-defined channel that contains water year-
round during a year of normal rainfall with the aquatic bed located below the
water table for most of the year. Ground water is the primary source of water
for a PERENNIAL STREAM, but it also carries storm water runoff. A PERENNIAL
STREAM exhibits the typical biological, hydrological and physical
characteristics commonly associated with the continuous conveyance of water.
            PERENNIAL WATERBODY. A natural or man-made basin, including lakes,
ponds and reservoirs, that stores surface water permanently at depths
sufficient to preclude growth of rooted plants. For the purpose of the state’s
riparian buffer protection program, the waterbody must be part of a natural
drainage way (i.e., connected by surface flow to a stream).
            SHORELINE STABILIZATION. The in-place stabilization of an eroding
shoreline. STABILIZATION TECHNIQUES which include “soft” methods or natural
materials (such as root wads or rock vanes) may be considered as part of a
restoration design. However, STABILIZATION TECHNIQUES that consist primarily of
“hard” engineering, such as concrete lined channels, riprap or gabions, while
providing bank stabilization, shall not be considered stream restoration.
            STREAM. A body of concentrated flowing water in a natural low area
or natural channel on the land surface.
            STREAM RESTORATION. As the process of converting an unstable,
altered or degraded stream corridor, including adjacent riparian zone and
flood-prone areas to its natural or referenced, stable conditions considering
recent and future watershed conditions. This process also includes restoring
the geomorphic dimension, pattern and profile as well as biological and
chemical integrity, including transport of water and sediment produced by the
stream’s watershed in order to achieve dynamic equilibrium. “Referenced” or
“referenced reach” means a stable stream that is in dynamic equilibrium with
its valley and contributing watershed. A reference reach can be used to develop
natural channel design criteria for stream restoration projects.
            STUMP DIAMETER. The diameter of a tree measured at six inches above
the ground surface level.
            SURFACE WATERS. All waters of the state as defined in G.S. § 143-
212, except underground waters.
            TREE. A woody plant with a DBH equal to or exceeding five inches or
a stump diameter exceeding six inches.
            TEMPORARY ROAD. A road constructed temporarily for equipment access
to build or replace hydraulic conveyance structures such as bridges, culverts,
pipes or water dependent structures or to maintain public traffic during
construction.
         (b)   A stream buffer with a 30-foot minimum width measured landward
from the normal pool elevation of impoundments and from the top of bank of each
side of streams or rivers, shall be maintained along all perennial and
intermittent streams outside of the Jordan Lake watershed. This stream buffer
for the non-Jordan Lake watersheds shall have the first 20 feet from the top of
bank, landward, designated as a water quality conservation easement (WQCE) and
the remainder of the stream buffer shall be a vegetated area. Refer to Art. II,
for water quality conservation easement requirements. No new development is
allowed in the buffer, except for water dependent structures, other structures
such as flag poles, signs and security lights which result in only diminutive
increases in impervious area and public projects such as road crossings and
greenways where no practical alternative exists. These activities shall
minimize built-upon surface area, direct run-off away from the surface waters
and maximize the utilization of storm water best management practices. Note:
all stream buffers shall be identified on a recorded plat as “Drainage and
Stream Buffer Easement” or dedicated as public open space.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 7-1; Ord. passed 5-17-2007(1); Ord. passed 2-21-
2008(1); Ord. passed 11-18-2010(1); Ord. passed 8-14-2025)
§ 151.234 STREAM CHANNELIZATION.
   Perennial streams in water supply district shall not be channelized without
prior approval by the Town Council.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 7-1; Ord. passed 5-17-2007(1); Ord. passed 2-21-
2008(1); Ord. passed 11-18-2010(1))
§ 151.235 ACTIVITIES REGULATED BY OTHER GOVERNMENTAL AGENCIES.
   (A)   Designated agencies. The following are the designated agencies
responsible for implementing the requirements of the water supply watershed
protection rules as adopted by the state’s Environmental Management Commission
for the specified activity:
      (1)   Agriculture: Guilford Soil and Water Conservation District; and
      (2)   Silviculture: the State Division of Forest Resources.
   (B)   Transportation. The state department of transportation shall comply
with the practices outlined in its document entitled “Best Management Practices
for the Protection of Surface Waters”, which is incorporated by reference.
   (C)   Hazardous materials.
      (1)   The county’s Fire Marshal and the county’s Emergency Management
Assistance Agency are the designated management agencies responsible for
implementing the provisions of this division (C) pertaining to hazardous
materials.
      (2)   An inventory of all hazardous materials used and stored in the
watershed shall be maintained. A spill/failure containment plan and appropriate
safeguards against contamination are required. Waste minimization and
appropriate recycling of materials is encouraged.
      (3)   Properties in the GWA shall comply with the requirements of the
following hazardous substances regulations if materials listed in the Superfund
Amendments and Reauthorization Act (SARA) § 302, Extremely Hazardous Substances
(42 U.S.C. §§ 11000 et seq.) or § 311 of the Clean Water Act, as amended (CWA)
(33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.; oil and hazardous substances) are stored or used on
the site.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 7-1; Ord. passed 5-17-2007(1); Ord. passed 2-21-
2008(1); Ord. passed 11-18-2010(1))
§ 151.236 VARIANCES.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Requests for storm water management/watershed protection variances
shall be submitted in writing on forms supplied by the governing jurisdiction
and with a completed storm water management/watershed development plan showing
all pertinent information relative to the site in question. Information not
shown on the storm water management/watershed development plan or not presented
in writing shall not be considered pertinent to the variance request.
      (2)   For each request for a minor or major storm water management/
watershed variance, the Enforcement Officer shall notify all other local
governments having jurisdiction within the same water supply watershed or using
the affected water supply for consumption. A comment period of at least 14 days
shall be allowed before the Town Council hearing.
      (3)   In granting variances, the jurisdiction may require such conditions
as will secure, insofar as practicable, the objectives of the requirements
being modified.
      (4)   The applicant must demonstrate hardship that the regulations impose
on the property, not just apply for a waiver of the rules.
      (5)   The applicant must submit a plan that demonstrates equal or better
performance than the current regulations.
      (6)   Before the governing body may grant a minor watershed variance or
recommend approval to the state’s Environmental Management Commission (EMC) for
a major variance, it shall make the following three findings, and shall include
the factual reasons on which they are based:
         (a)   There are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships in the
way of carrying out the strict letter of the watershed requirements, and all of
the following conditions exist:
            1.   If the applicant complies with the provisions of this rule,
the applicant can secure no reasonable return from, nor make reasonable use of
the subject property. Merely proving that the variance would permit a greater
profit from the property shall not be considered adequate justification for a
variance. Moreover, the EMC or Enforcement Officer, or designee, shall consider
whether the variance is the minimum possible deviation from the terms of the
rule that shall make reasonable use of property possible.
            2.   The hardship results from the application of the rule to the
property rather than from other factors such as deed restrictions or other
hardships.
            3.   The hardship is due to the physical nature of the applicant’s
property, such as size, shape or topography, which is different from that of
neighboring properties.
            4.   The applicant did not cause the hardship by knowingly or
unknowingly violating the rule.
            5.   The applicant did not purchase the property after the
effective date of the rule and then request an appeal to maximize the use of
the property. The applicant is entitled to a variance if a valid hardship is
demonstrated.
            6.   The hardship is unique to the applicant’s property, rather
than the result of conditions that are widespread. If other properties are
equally subject to the hardship created in the restriction, then granting a
variance would be a special privilege denied to others, and would not promote
equal justice.
         (b)   The variance is in harmony with the general purpose and intent
of this chapter and preserves its spirit.
         (c)   In the granting of the variance, the public safety and welfare
have been assured, water quality has been protected and substantial justice has
been done.
   (B)   Minor storm water watershed variances. The Town Council is designated
to approve minor storm water management and watershed variances.
   (C)   Major storm water watershed variances.
      (1)   The state’s Environmental Management Commission (EMC) is designated
to approve major storm water management and watershed variances.
      (2)   The review process shall be the same as in division (B) above;
except that, the governing body shall make recommendations to the EMC. The
variance application, hearing notices and minutes from each committee and board
review shall be forwarded to the EMC, which shall approve or deny the variance.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 7-1; Ord. passed 5-17-2007(1); Ord. passed 2-21-
2008(1); Ord. passed 11-18-2010(1))
§ 151.237 WATERSHED REPORTING.
   (A)   10/70 provision - watershed reporting. The Enforcement Officer shall
keep records on the town’s use of the provisions that up to a maximum of 10% of
the non-critical area of WS-III watersheds may be developed with new
development at a maximum of 70% built-upon surface area. Records for each
watershed shall include the total area of non-critical watershed area, total
acres eligible to be developed under this option, total acres approved for this
development option, and individual records for each project with the following
information; location, number of developed acres, type of land use and storm
water management plan (if applicable).
   (B)   Storm water management watershed variances. The Enforcement Officer
shall keep a record of all storm water management/watershed variances. This
record shall be submitted for each calendar year to the Division of Water
Quality Management on or before January 1 of the following year and shall
provide a description of each project receiving a minor or major variance and
the reasons for granting the variance.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 7-1; Ord. passed 5-17-2007(1); Ord. passed 2-21-
2008(1); Ord. passed 11-18-2010(1))
**** WATERSHED PROTECTION DISTRICTS; PERFORMANCE STANDARDS ****
§ 151.250 NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES).
   (A)   District boundaries. The NPDES District covers all the territory
encompassed in the town.
   (B)   Maximum development density and minimum lot size.
      (1)   All developments located in the NPDES non-water supply district
shall be limited to the maximum density and minimum lot size based upon the
development’s current zoning.
      (2)   All developments located in the NPDES water supply district shall
follow the density and development requirements of the GWA performance tables.
   (C)   Performance standards. The storm water management/watershed
development plan for any development covered by this section shall be prepared
and submitted in accordance with the performance standards found in Table 31
below. The owner, developer or person submitting the storm water management/
watershed development plan shall indicate which performance standard they have
chosen for review and approval. Development that cumulatively disturbs less
than one acre is exempt from the requirements of this section.
 
Table 31: NPDES Performance Standards
District                      Low Density Option   High Density Optiona
NPDES, non-water supply areas 2 DU/1 AC; 0-24% BUA Greater than 2 DU/1 AC;
                                                   greater than 24% BUA
Notes to Table:
a Development under the high density option shall require engineering
statement by a registered professional engineer, with seal (§
151.230(B) of this chapter) certifying the control and treatment of the run-
off from a 1-inch rain and the discharge of the storage volume shall be equal
to or less than the predevelopment discharge rate for the 1-year, 24-hour
storm.
1) DU = Dwelling Unit(s); AC=Acre; percentage (%) refers to built-upon area
of the zone lot, parcel or tract.
2) Single-family detached residential developments will be evaluated on the
basis of dwelling units per acre.
3) All other residential and all non-residential developments will be
evaluated on the basis of built-upon area percentage.
 
   (D)   Runoff control. When runoff control is required for development using
the high density option (see definition in §
151.013 of this chapter and Table 30 above), the runoff control shall be by use
of a best management practice meeting the performance standards of the
following:
      (1)   Control and treat the runoff from the first one inch of rain;
      (2)   Discharge the storage volume at a rate equal to or less than the
predevelopment discharge rate for the one-year, 24-hour storm;
      (3)   Remove an 85% average annual amount of total suspended solids and
meeting the guidelines in the latest edition of the “Guilford County Water
Quality Protection Manual”; and
      (4)   Drawdown of treatment volume shall be no faster than 48 hours, but
no slower than 120 hours.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 7-2; Ord. passed 2-21-2008(1); Ord. passed 11-18-
2010(1))
§ 151.251 GENERAL WATERSHED AREAS (GWA).
   (A)   GWA district boundaries. The GWA District extends to the outer
boundary of the watershed of a designated water supply reservoir or intake.
   (B)   Maximum development density and minimum lot size. All developments in
the GWA, not utilizing public sewer, shall be limited to the maximum density of
1 DU/1 acre and minimum lot size based upon the development’s current zoning.
The minimum required lot size shall not include the area in a special purpose
lot used for off-site sewage treatment systems. Developments utilizing public
sewer shall be limited to the maximum density shown in Table 31 of this chapter
and minimum lot size based upon the development’s current zoning.
   (C)   Performance standards. The watershed development plan for any
development covered by this section shall be prepared and submitted in
accordance with the performance standards found in Table 31 of this chapter.
The owner, developer or person submitting the watershed development plan shall
indicate which performance standard they have chosen for review and approval.
 
Table 32: GWA Performance Standards
Watershed                        Low Density Option High Density Optiona
WS—III Reidsville (Troublesome 2DU/1AC; 0-24% BUA Greater than 2 DU/1 AC;
Creek)                                              24.01%-50% BUA
Notes to Table:
a Development under the high density option shall require engineering
statement by a registered professional engineer, with seal (§
151.230(B) of this chapter) certifying the control and treatment of the run-
off from a 1-inch rain and the discharge of the storage volume shall be equal
to or less than the predevelopment discharge rate for the 1-year, 24-hour
storm.
1) DU = Dwelling Unit(s); AC=Acre; percentage (%) refers to built-upon area
of the zone lot, parcel or tract.
2) Single-family detached residential developments will be evaluated on the
basis of dwelling units per acre.
3) All other residential and all non-residential developments will be
evaluated on the basis of built-upon area percentage.
 
   (D)   Runoff control. When runoff control is required for development using
the high density option (see definition in §
151.013 of this chapter and Table 30 of this chapter), the runoff control shall
be by use of a best management practice meeting the performance standards of
the following:
      (1)   Control and treat the runoff from the first one inch of rain;
      (2)   Discharge the storage volume at a rate equal to or less than the
predevelopment discharge rate for the one-year, 24-hour storm;
      (3)   Remove an 85% average annual amount of total suspended solids and
meeting the guidelines in the latest edition of the “Guilford County Water
Quality Protection Manual”; and
      (4)   Drawdown of treatment volume shall be no faster than 48 hours, but
no slower than 120 hours.
   (E)   GWA-Watershed classification WS-III.
      (1)   Built-upon area limit. Development shall not exceed 50% built-upon
area.
      (2)   10/70 option for non-residential.
         (a)   Up to a maximum of 10% of the local jurisdiction’s portion of a
WS-III GWA, as delineated on 7-1-1993 may be developed with new non-residential
development at up to 70% built-upon area.
         (b)   Allocation shall be made on a first come-first served basis.
When a building permit for the site is issued, an allocation shall be assigned.
Expiration of a building permit shall terminate the allocation under this
section.
         (c)   Developments using this option shall provide an engineer’s
statement of runoff control for control of the runoff from a one-inch rainfall
and for a one-year/24-hour storm event.
      (3)   Prohibited uses. No new discharging landfills.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 7-2; Ord. passed 2-21-2008(1); Ord. passed 11-18-
2010(1))
**** SOIL EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL ****
§ 151.265 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Plan required. No person shall initiate any land-disturbing activity
without an erosion- control plan approved by the jurisdiction, if the land-
disturbing activity:
      (1)   Exceeds one acre;
      (2)   Will take place on highly erodible soils with a “k” factor greater
than 0.36 in a watershed critical area;
      (3)   Includes a permanent runoff control structure in a watershed
critical area; or
      (4)   Will take place in Tier 1 or Tier 2 of a watershed critical area.
   (B)   Protection of property. Persons conducting land-disturbing activity
shall take all reasonable measures to protect all public and private property
from damage caused by such activity.
   (C)   More restrictive rules shall apply. Whenever conflicts exist between
federal, state or local laws, ordinances or rules, the more restrictive
provision shall apply.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 7-4; Ord. passed 5-17-2007(1))
§ 151.266 BASIC CONTROL OBJECTIVES.
   A soil erosion and sedimentation control plan may be disapproved pursuant to
§
151.276(M) of this chapter if the plan fails to address the following control
objectives:
   (A)   Identify critical areas. On-site areas which are subject to severe
erosion, and off-site areas which are especially vulnerable to damage from
erosion and/or sedimentation, are to be identified and receive special
attention;
   (B)   Limit time of exposure. All land-disturbing activity is to be planned
and conducted to limit exposure to the shortest feasible time;
   (C)   Limit exposed areas. All land-disturbing activity is to be planned and
conducted to minimize the size of the area to be exposed at any one time;
   (D)   Control surface water. Surface water runoff originating upgrade of
exposed areas should be controlled to reduce erosion and sediment loss during
the period of exposure;
   (E)   Control sedimentation. All land-disturbing activity is to be planned
and conducted so as to prevent off-site sedimentation damage; and
   (F)   Manage storm water runoff. When the increase in the velocity of storm
water runoff resulting from a land-disturbing activity is sufficient to cause
accelerated erosion of the receiving watercourse, plans are to include measures
to control the velocity at the point of discharge so as to minimize accelerated
erosion of the site and increased sedimentation of the stream.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 7-4; Ord. passed 5-17-2007(1))
§ 151.267 LAND-DISTURBING ACTIVITIES; MANDATORY STANDARDS.
   No land-disturbing activity subject to the control of this chapter shall be
undertaken, except in accordance with the following mandatory standards.
   (A)   Buffer zone. No land-disturbing activity shall be permitted in
proximity to a lake or natural watercourse unless a buffer zone is provided
along the margin of the watercourse of sufficient width to confine visible
siltation within the 25% of the buffer zone nearer the land-disturbing
activity; provided that, this division (A) shall not apply to a land-disturbing
activity in connection with the construction of facilities to be located on,
over or under a lake or natural watercourse. Unless otherwise provided, the
width of a buffer zone is measured from the edge of the water to the nearest
edge of the disturbed area, with the 25% of the strip nearer the land
disturbing activity containing natural or artificial means of confining visible
siltation.
   (B)   Graded slopes and fills. The angle for graded slopes and fills shall
be no steeper than two to one (2:1) slope if they are to be stabilized with
vegetative cover. Slopes or fills steeper than two to one (2:1) slope must be
protected by structures. In any event, slopes left exposed will, within 30 days
of completion of any phase of grading, be planted or otherwise provided with
ground cover, devices or structures sufficient to restrain erosion.
   (C)   Ground cover. Whenever land-disturbing activity is undertaken on a
tract comprising more than one acre, if more than one acre is uncovered, the
person conducting the land-disturbing activity shall install such sedimentation
and erosion-control devices and practices as are sufficient to retain the
sediment generated by the land-disturbing activity within the boundaries of the
tract during construction upon and development of said tract, and shall plant
or otherwise provide a permanent ground cover sufficient to restrain erosion
after completion of construction or development. Except as provided in §
151.268(B)(5) of this chapter, provisions for a ground cover sufficient to
restrain erosion must be accomplished within 30 working days or 120 calendar
days following completion, whichever period is shorter.
   (D)   Prior plan approval. No person shall initiate any land-disturbing
activity on a tract more than one acre is to be uncovered unless, 30 or more
days prior to initiating the activity, an erosion and sedimentation control
plan for such activity is filed with and approved by the jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 7-4; Ord. passed 5-17-2007(1))
§ 151.268 DESIGN AND PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Design for ten-year storm. Except as provided in division (B)(2)
below, soil erosion and sedimentation control measures, structures and devices
shall be so planned, designed and constructed as to provide protection from the
calculated maximum peak rate of runoff from the ten-year storm. Runoff rates
shall be calculated using the procedures in the USDA, Soil Conservation
Service’s “National Engineering Field Manual for Conservation Practices” or
other acceptable calculation procedures.
   (B)   High quality water zones. In High Quality Water (HQW) Zones, the
following design standards shall apply.
      (1)   Uncovered areas in HQW Zones shall be limited at any time to a
maximum total area within the boundaries of the tract to 20 acres. Only the
portion of the land-disturbing activity within a HQW Zone shall be governed by
this division (B). Larger areas may be uncovered within the boundaries of the
tract with the written approval of the Director (DEHNR).
      (2)   Soil erosion and sedimentation control measures, structures and
devices within HQW Zones shall be so planned, designed and constructed to
provide protection from the runoff of the 25-year storm which produces the
maximum peak rate of runoff as calculated according to procedures in the United
States Department of Agricultural Soil Conservation Service’s “National
Engineering Field Manual for Conservation Practices” or according to procedures
adopted by any other agency of the state or the United States or any generally
recognized organization or association.
      (3)   Sediment basins within HQW Zones shall be designed and constructed
such that the basin will have a settling efficiency of at least 70% for the 40
micron size soil particle transported into the basin by the runoff of that two-
year storm which produces the maximum peak rate of runoff as calculated
according to procedures in the United States Department of Agricultural Soil
Conservation Service’s “National Engineering Field Manual for Conservation
Practices” or according to procedures adopted by any other agency of the state
or the United States or any generally reorganized organization or association.
      (4)   Newly constructed open channels in HQW Zones shall be designed and
constructed with side slopes no steeper than two horizontal to one vertical if
a vegetative cover is used for stabilization unless soil conditions permit a
steeper slope or where the slopes are stabilized by using mechanical devices,
structural devices or other acceptable ditch liners. In any event, the angle
for side slopes shall be sufficient to restrain accelerated erosion.
      (5)   Ground cover sufficient to restrain erosion must be provided for
any portion of a land-disturbing activity in a HQW Zone within 15 working days
or 60 calendar days following completion of construction or development,
whichever period is shorter.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 7-4; Ord. passed 5-17-2007(1))
§ 151.269 STORM WATER OUTLET PROTECTION.
   (A)   Intent. Stream banks and channels downstream from any land-disturbing
activity shall be protected from increased degradation by accelerated erosion
caused by increased velocity of runoff from the land-disturbing activity.
   (B)   Performance standard.
      (1)   Persons shall conduct land-disturbing activity so that the post-
construction velocity of the ten-year storm runoff in the receiving watercourse
to the discharge point does not exceed the greater of:
         (a)   The velocity established by Table 33 below; or
         (b)   The velocity of the ten-year storm runoff in the receiving
watercourse prior to development.
      (2)   If conditions in divisions (B)(1)(a) or (B)(1)(b) above cannot be
met, then the receiving watercourse to and including the discharge point shall
be designed and constructed to withstand the expected velocity anywhere the
velocity exceeds the “prior to development” velocity by 10%.
Table 33: Maximum Permissible Velocity for Storm Water Discharges
Material Maximum Permissible Velocities
         F.P.S. M.P.S.
Table 33: Maximum Permissible Velocity for Storm Water Discharges
Material                                 Maximum Permissible Velocities
                                         F.P.S. M.P.S.
Alluvial silts (colloidal)               5.0    1.5
Alluvial silts (non-colloidal)           3.5    1.1
Coarse gravel (non-colloidal)            6.0    1.8
Cobbles and shingles                     5.5    1.7
Fine gravel                              5.0    1.5
Fine sand (non-colloidal)                2.5    0.8
Graded, loam to cobbles (non- colloidal) 5.0    1.5
Graded, silt to cobbles                  5.5    1.7
Ordinary firm loam                       3.5    1.1
Sandy loam (non-colloidal)               2.5    0.8
Shales and hard pans                     6.0    1.8
Silt loam (non-colloidal)                3.0    0.9
Stiff clay (very colloidal)              5.0    1.5
Notes to Table:
Source: Adapted from recommendations by Special Committee on Irrigation
Research, American Society of Civil Engineers, 1926, for channels with
straight alignment. For sinuous channels, multiply allowable velocity by 0.95
for slightly sinuous, by 0.9 for moderately sinuous channels and by 0.8 for
highly sinuous channels.
 
   (C)   Acceptable management measures. Measures applies alone or in
combination to satisfy the intent of this section are acceptable if there are
no objectionable secondary consequences. The jurisdiction recognizes that the
management of storm water runoff to minimize or control downstream channel and
bank erosion is a developing technology. Innovative techniques and ideas will
be considered and may be used when shown to have the potential to produce
successful results. Some alternatives are to:
      (1)   Avoid increases to surface runoff volume and velocity by including
measures to promote infiltration to compensate for increased runoff from areas
rendered impervious;
      (2)   Avoid increases in storm water discharge velocities by using
vegetated or roughened swales and waterways in lieu of closed drains and high
velocity paved sections;
      (3)   Provide energy dissipators at outlets of storm drainage facilities
to reduce flow velocities to the point of discharge. These may range from
simple rip-rapped sections to complex structures; or
      (4)   Protect watercourses subject to accelerated erosion by improving
cross sections and/or providing erosion-resistant lining.
   (D)   Exceptions. This rule shall not apply where it can be demonstrated
that storm water discharge velocities will not create an erosion problem in the
receiving watercourse.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 7-4; Ord. passed 5-17-2007(1))
§ 151.270 BORROW AND WASTE AREAS.
   When the person conducting the land-disturbing activity is also the person
conducting the borrow or waste disposal activity, areas from which borrow is
obtained and which are not regulated by the provisions of the Mining Act of
1971, any waste areas for surplus materials other than landfills regulated by
the Department’s Division of Solid Waste Management shall be considered as part
of the land- disturbing activity where the borrow material is being used or
from which the waste material originated. When the person conducting land-
disturbing activity is not the person obtaining the borrow and/or disposing of
the waste, these areas shall be considered a separate land-disturbing activity.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 7-4; Ord. passed 5-17-2007(1))
§ 151.271 ACCESS AND HAUL ROADS.
   Temporary access and haul roads, other than public roads, constructed or
used in connection with any land-disturbing activity shall be considered a part
of such activity.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 7-4; Ord. passed 5-17-2007(1))
§ 151.272 OPERATIONS IN LAKES OR NATURAL WATERCOURSES.
   Land-disturbing activity in connection with construction in, on, over or
under a lake or natural watercourse shall be planned and conducted in such a
manner as to minimize the extent and duration of disturbance of the stream
channel. The relocation of a stream, where relocation is an essential part of
the proposed activity, shall be planned and executed so as to minimize changes
in the stream flow characteristics, except when justification for significant
alteration to flow characteristic is provided. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
shall be notified by the developer of any planned operation in lakes or natural
watercourses for possible issuance of § 404 or other permits.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 7-4; Ord. passed 5-17-2007(1))
§ 151.273 RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE.
   During the development of a site, the person conducting the land-disturbing
activity shall install and maintain all temporary and permanent erosion and
sedimentation control measures as required by the approved plan, by any
provision of this chapter or by any ordinance adopted pursuant to this chapter.
After site development, the land owner or person in possession or control of
the land shall install and/or maintain all necessary permanent erosion and
sediment control measures, except those measures installed within a road or
street right-of-way or easement accepted for maintenance by a governmental
agency.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 7-4; Ord. passed 5-17-2007(1))
§ 151.274 ADDITIONAL MEASURES.
   Whenever the jurisdiction determines that significant sedimentation is
occurring as a result of land-disturbing activity, despite application and
maintenance of protective practices, the person conducting the land-disturbing
activity will be required to and shall take additional protective action.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 7-4; Ord. passed 5-17-2007(1))
§ 151.275 EXISTING UNCOVERED AREAS.
   (A)   Applicability. All uncovered areas existing on the effective date of
this chapter which are the result of land-disturbing activity, which exceed one
acre, which are subject to continued accelerated erosion, and which are causing
off-site damage from sedimentation, shall be provided with a ground cover or
other protective measures, structures or devices sufficient to restrain
accelerated erosion and control off-site sedimentation.
   (B)   Notice of violation. The jurisdiction will serve upon the landowner a
written notice of violation by registered or certified mail, return receipt
requested. The notice will set forth the measures needed to comply and will
state the time within which such measures must be completed. In determining the
measures required and the time allowed for compliance, the authority serving
notice shall take into consideration the economic feasibility, technology and
quantity of work required, and shall set reasonably attainable time limits for
compliance.
   (C)   Requiring erosion-control plan. The jurisdiction reserves the right to
require preparation and approval of an erosion-control plan in any instance
where extensive control measures are required.
   (D)   Exemption. This rule shall not require ground cover on cleared land
forming the future basin of a planned reservoir.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 7-4; Ord. passed 5-17-2007(1))
§ 151.276 EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL PLANS.
   (A)   Applicability. An erosion-control plan shall be prepared for all land-
disturbing activities subject to this chapter whenever the proposed activity is
to be undertaken on a tract comprising more than one acre, if more than one
acre is to be uncovered.
   (B)   Preparation of plan. The erosion-control plan shall be prepared by,
and shall bear the seal and signature of a registered professional engineer,
architect, landscape architect or a registered surveyor to the extent permitted
by the state laws, at a scale not smaller than one inch equals 100 feet. The
plan shall be filed with the jurisdiction, and the Guilford Soil and Water
Conservation District, 30 days prior to the commencement of the proposed
activity.
   (C)   Submission of plan. Persons conducting land-disturbing activity on a
tract which covers one or more acres shall file five copies of the erosion-
control plan with the jurisdiction, at least 30 days prior to beginning of such
activity, and shall keep another copy of the plan on file at the job site. If
the jurisdiction, either upon review of such plan or on inspection of the job
site, determines that a significant risk of accelerated erosion or off-site
sedimentation exists, the jurisdiction will require a revised plan. Pending the
preparation of the revised plan, work shall cease or shall continue under
conditions outlined by the appropriate authority.
   (D)   Financial responsibility statement. Erosion-control plans may be
disapproved unless accompanied by an authorized statement of financial
responsibility and ownership. This statement shall be signed by the person
financially responsible for the land-disturbing activity or his or her attorney
in fact. The statement shall include the mailing and street addresses of the
principal place of business of the person financially responsible and of the
owner of the land or his, her or their registered agents. If the person
financially responsible is not a resident of the state, a state agent must be
designated in the statement for the purpose of receiving notice of this
compliance or non-compliance with the plan, this chapter, or rules or orders
adopted or issued pursuant to this chapter.
   (E)   Conservation district review. The Guilford Soil and Water Conservation
District within 20 days of receipt of any plan, shall review such plan and
submit its comments and recommendations to the jurisdiction. Failure of the
Soil and Water Conservation District to submit its comments and recommendations
within these 20 days will not delay final action on the plan.
   (F)   Local jurisdiction review. The jurisdiction will review each plan
submitted to them and within 30 days of receipt thereof will notify the person
submitting the plan that it has been approved, approved with modifications,
approved with performance reservations or disapproved. Failure to approve or
disapprove a complete erosion and sedimentation control plan within 30 days of
receipt shall be deemed approval. Denial of a plan must specifically state in
writing the reasons for denial. The jurisdiction must approve or deny a revised
plan within 15 days of receipt, or it is deemed to be approved. If, following
commencement of a land-disturbing activity pursuant to an approved plan, the
jurisdiction determines that the plan is inadequate to meet the requirements of
this chapter, the jurisdiction may require such revisions as are necessary to
comply with this chapter.
   (G)   Plan requirements. The plan required by this section shall contain
architectural and engineering drawings, maps, assumptions, calculations and
narrative statements as needed to adequately describe the proposed development
of the tract and the measures proposed to ensure compliance with the
requirements of this chapter. Plan content may vary to meet the needs of
specific site requirements. Detailed guidelines for plan preparation can be
found in §§
151.335 through
151.337 of this chapter.
   (H)   Application amendments. Applications for amendment of an erosion-
control plan in written and/or graphic form may be made at any time under the
same conditions as the original application. Until such time as said amendment
is approved by the jurisdiction, the land-disturbing activity shall not
proceed, except in accordance with the erosion-control plan as originally
approved.
   (I)   Work conducted from approved plan. Any person engaged in land-
disturbing activity who fails to file a plan in accordance with this chapter,
or who conducts a land-disturbing activity, except in accordance with
provisions of an approved plan shall be deemed in violation of this chapter.
   (J)   Plan approval required for permit. No building or location permits,
approvals or other documents relating to land or building development or
improvement shall be issued or granted under applicable zoning, building,
subdivision and other laws and ordinances of the jurisdiction, unless and until
an erosion-control plan, as required by this chapter, has been submitted to the
jurisdiction, a grading permit has been issued and a certificate of erosion-
control performance has been issued by jurisdiction, indicating that initial
erosion-control devices have been installed and are functioning properly.
   (K)   Work completed before final subdivision approval. No final subdivision
plat approval nor any certificate of occupancy shall be issued or granted where
required under applicable zoning, building, subdivision and other laws and
ordinances unless and until work at the site has been completed in accordance
with a valid grading permit, or an improvement security or performance bond has
been approved and accepted as required by this chapter.
   (L)   Surety. The applicant for a grading permit to grade one acre or more
may be required to file with the jurisdiction an improvement security or bond
in the form of an escrow account or other instruments satisfactory to the
jurisdiction attorney in the amount deemed sufficient by the jurisdiction to
cover all costs of protection of the site against erosion and off-site
sedimentation according to requirements of this chapter. The amount of such
surety requirement shall be determined by the jurisdiction in consultations
with the Soil and Water Conservation District and with disinterested private
contractors. Such surety shall be valid until the work is completed in
accordance with the grading permit and until same is released by the
jurisdiction. Applicable surety shall be forfeited upon violation of this
chapter and shall be used to establish protective cover on the site, to control
the velocity of runoff and/or prevent off-site sedimentation. Any moneys in
excess of the cost of providing protective measures shall be refunded to the
applicant. Surety shall be released when the jurisdiction has certified that
the requirements of this chapter has been met.
   (M)   Grounds for plan disapproval.
      (1)   A soil erosion and sedimentation control plan may be disapproved
upon a finding that an applicant or any parent or subsidiary corporation if the
applicant is a corporation:
         (a)   Is conducting or has conducted land-disturbing activity without
an approved plan, or has received notice of violation of a plan previously
approved by the commission or the jurisdiction and has not complied with the
notice within the time specified in the notice;
         (b)   Has failed to pay a civil penalty assessed pursuant to the Act
or this chapter which is due and for which no appeal is pending;
         (c)   Has been convicted of a misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. § 113A-64
(b) or any criminal provision of this chapter; and
         (d)   Has failed to substantially comply with state rules adopted
pursuant to the Act or regulations of this chapter.
      (2)   For purposes of this division (M), an applicant’s record may be
considered for only the two years prior to the application date.
   (N)   State’s Environmental Policy Act. Any plan submitted for a land-
disturbing activity for which an environmental document is required by the
state’s Environmental Policy Act (G.S. §§ 113A-1 et seq.) shall be deemed
incomplete until a complete environmental document is available for review. The
town shall promptly notify the person submitting the plan that the 30-day time
limit for review of the plan pursuant to division (F) above shall not begin
until a complete environmental document is available for review.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 7-4; Ord. passed 5-17-2007(1))
§ 151.277 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE; VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Notice of violation. No penalty shall be assessed until the person
alleged to be in violation has been notified of the violation by registered or
certified mail, return receipt requested, or other means reasonably calculated
to give actual notice. The notice shall describe the violation with reasonable
particularity, set forth the measures necessary to achieve compliance with the
plan, specify a reasonable time period within which the violation must be
corrected, and warn that failure to correct the violation within the time
period will result in the assessment of a civil penalty or other enforcement
action. If, after the allotted time period has expired, the violator has not
completed corrective action, a civil penalty may be assessed from the date of
receipt of the notice of violation. However, no time period for compliance need
be given for failure to submit a soil erosion and sedimentation control plan
for approval or for obstructing, hampering or interfering with an authorized
representative while in the process of carrying out his or her official duties.
Each day of continuing violation shall constitute a separate violation.
   (B)   Notice of assessment. The Enforcement Officer shall determine the
amount of the civil penalty to be assessed under this division (B) shall make
written demand for payment upon the person in violation, and shall set forth in
detail a description of the violation for which the penalty has been imposed.
In determining the amount of the penalty, the Enforcement Officer shall
consider the degree and extent of harm caused by the violation and the cost of
rectifying the damage. Notice of the assessment shall be by registered or
certified mail or other means reasonably calculated to give actual notice. If
payment is not received or equitable settlement reached within 30 days after
demand for payment is made, the matter shall be referred to the Town Attorney
for institution of a civil action in the appropriate division of the general
counts of justice for recovery of the penalty. Such civil actions must be filed
within three years of the date the final decision was served on the violator.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 8-6)
§ 151.278 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   (A)   Whenever the Enforcement Officer has reasonable cause to believe that
any person is violating or threatening to violate this subchapter or any rule
or order adopted or issued pursuant to this subchapter, or any term, condition
or provision of an approved soil erosion and sedimentation control plan the
Enforcement Officer may, either before or after the institution of any other
action or proceeding authorized by this chapter, institute a civil action in
the name of the jurisdiction, for injunctive relief to restrain the violation
or threatened violation.
   (B)   The action shall be brought in the Superior Court of the county.
   (C)   Upon determination by a court that an alleged violation is occurring
or is threatened, it shall enter such orders or judgements as are necessary to
abate the violation or to prevent the threatened violation.
   (D)   The institution of an action for injunctive relief under this section
shall not relieve any party to such proceedings from any civil or criminal
penalty prescribed for violations of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 8-8)
**** FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION ****
§ 151.290 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Legislature of the state has, in G.S. Ch. 143, Art. 21, Part 6 and G.S.
Ch. 160D, delegated to local governmental the responsibility units to adopt
regulations designed to promote the public health, safety and general welfare
of its citizenry.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 7-5; Ord. passed 5-17-2007(1); Ord. passed 8-14-
2025)
§ 151.291 LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Effect on rights and liabilities under the existing flood damage
prevention ordinance.
      (1)   This subchapter in part comes forward by re-enactment of some of
the provisions of the flood damage prevention ordinance enacted on 11-9-1989,
as amended, and it is not the intention to repeal, but rather to re-enact and
continue to enforce without interruption of such existing provisions, so that
all rights and liabilities that have accrued thereunder are reserved and may be
enforced.
      (2)   The enactment of this chapter shall not affect any action, suit or
proceeding instituted or pending.
      (3)   All provisions of the flood damage prevention ordinance of the town
enacted on 11-9-1989, as amended, which are not reenacted herein are repealed.
   (B)   Effect upon outstanding floodplain development permits. Nothing herein
contained shall require any change in the plans, construction, size or
designated use of any development or any part thereof for which a floodplain
development permit has been granted by the floodplain administrator or his or
her authorized agents before the time of passage of this subchapter; provided,
however, that, when construction is not begun under such outstanding permit
within a period of six months subsequent to the date of issuance of the
outstanding permit, construction or use shall be in conformity with the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   Effective date. This subchapter became effective upon adoption.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 7-5; Ord. passed 5-17-2007(1))
§ 151.292 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood-prone areas within the jurisdiction of the town are subject
to periodic inundation which results in loss of life, property, health and
safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary
public expenditures of flood protection and relief and impairment of the tax
base, all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general
welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities and by the
occupancy in flood-prone areas of uses vulnerable to floods or other hazards.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 7-5; Ord. passed 5-17-2007(1))
§ 151.293 LANDS TO WHICH SUBCHAPTER APPLIES.
   This subchapter shall apply to all special flood hazard areas within the
jurisdiction, includin g extra-territorial jurisdict ions (ETJs), as allowed by
law, of the town. Bona fide farms are not exempt from the provisions of this
chapter regulating develop ment in floodways and floodplains as required for
participation in the National Flood Insuran ce Program.
Figure 30: Flood Hazard Areas
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/becb2f9c6e5d0add85cd879a02d64c74e71e8c8f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-931.png]
 
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 7-5; Ord. passed 5-17-2007(1); Ord. passed 4-9-
2026)
§ 151.294 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   The special flood hazard areas are those identified under the cooperating
technical state (CTS) agreement between the state and FEMA in its flood
insurance study (FIS) dated 6-10-2026 for the county and associated Digital
Flood Insurance Rate Map (DFIRM) panels, including any digital data developed
as part of the FIS which are adopted by reference and declared to be a part of
this subchapter, and all revisions thereto, after written notice to the town.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 7-5; Ord. passed 5-17-2007(1); Ord. passed 4-9-
2026)
§ 151.295 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this subchapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities within special flood hazard areas determined in accordance with §
151.294 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 7-5; Ord. passed 5-17-2007(1))
§ 151.296 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted,
altered or developed in any way without full compliance with the terms of this
subchapter and other applicable regulations.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 7-5; Ord. passed 5-17-2007(1))
§ 151.297 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
consideration. Larger floods can and will occur. Actual flood heights may be
increased by human-made or natural causes. This subchapter does not imply that
land outside the special flood hazard areas or uses permitted within such areas
will be free from flooding or flood damages. This subchapter shall not create
liability on the part of the town or by any officer or employee thereof for any
flood damages that result from reliance on this subchapter or any
administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 7-5; Ord. passed 5-17-2007(1))
§ 151.298 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Application for permit. On a property containing an area of special
flood hazard, application for a floodplain development permit shall be made in
accordance with §
151.067(E) of this chapter.
   (B)   Certificate of floor elevation/flood-proofing. When a property is
located in a flood hazard area or when a structure is flood-proofed, a
certificate shall be provided in accordance with §
151.072(D) of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 7-5; Ord. passed 5-17-2007(1))
§ 151.299 GENERAL FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse and
lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
   (C)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damages.
   (D)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding. These include, but are not limited to, HVAC equipment, water softener
units, bath/kitchen fixtures, ductwork, electric/gas meter panels/boxes,
utility/cable boxes, appliances (washers, dryers, refrigerators, freezers and
the like), hot water heaters and electric outlets/switches.
   (E)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters.
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (H)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a structure,
which is in compliance with the provisions of this subchapter, shall meet the
requirements of “new construction” as contained in this subchapter.
   (I)   Nothing in this subchapter shall prevent the repair, reconstruction or
replacement of a building or structure existing on the effective date of this
subchapter and located totally or partially within the floodway, non-
encroachment area or stream setback; provided, there is no additional
encroachment below the regulatory flood protection elevation in the floodway,
non-encroachment area or stream setback; and, provided that, such repair,
reconstruction or replacement meets all of the other requirements of this
subchapter.
   (J)   New solid waste disposal facilities and sites, hazardous waste
management facilities, salvage yards and chemical storage facilities shall not
be permitted, except by variance as specified in §
151.029(J) of this chapter. A structure or tank for chemical or fuel storage
incidental to an allowed use or to the operation of a water treatment plant or
wastewater treatment facility may be located in a special flood hazard area
only if the structure or tank is either elevated or flood-proofed to at least
the regulatory flood protection elevation and certified according to §
151.072(D) of this chapter.
   (K)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall be
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
   (L)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
   (M)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (N)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
received all necessary permits from those governmental agencies for which
approval is required by federal or state law, including § 404 of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1334.
   (O)   The following uses shall be permitted below flood protection elevation
within the Floodway Fringe Zone to the extent that they are otherwise permitted
by this subchapter:
      (1)   Any use as permitted and regulated in the Floodway Zone; and
      (2)   Fill material graded to drain, provided such is protected against
erosion. Any fill material on which a structure is to be located shall be
extended at grade ten feet beyond the limits of the structure foundation and
shall have a side slope no steeper than two feet horizontal to one foot
vertical.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 7-5; Ord. passed 5-17-2007(1))
§ 151.300 SPECIFIC FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation (BFE) data has
been provided, as set forth in §
151.294 or §
151.032(C)(11) and (12) of this chapter, the following provisions, in addition
to §
151.299 of this chapter, are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall have the
reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the regulatory
flood protection elevation, as defined in §
151.013 of this chapter.
   (B)   Non-residential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other non-residential structure
shall have the reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the
regulatory flood protection elevation, as defined in §
151.013 of this chapter. Structures located in A, AE and A1-30 Zones may be
flood-proofed to the regulatory flood protection elevation in lieu of elevation
provided that all areas of the structure, together with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities, below the regulatory flood protection elevation are water-
tight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water, using
structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and the effect of buoyancy. A registered professional
engineer or architect shall certify that the standards of this division (B) are
satisfied. Such certification shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator
as set forth in §
151.072(D) of this chapter, along with the operational and maintenance plans.
   (C)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   New or replacement manufactured homes shall be elevated so that the
reference level of the manufactured home is no lower than the regulatory flood
protection elevation, as defined in §
151.013 of this chapter.
      (2)   Manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement, either
by engineer certification, or in accordance with the most current edition of
the “State of North Carolina Regulations for Manufactured Homes”, adopted by
the Commissioner of Insurance pursuant to G.S. § 143-143.15. Additionally, when
the elevation would be met by an elevation of the chassis 36 inches or less
above the grade at the site, the chassis shall be supported by reinforced piers
or engineered foundation. When the elevation of the chassis is above 36 inches
in height, an engineering certification is required.
      (3)   All enclosures or skirting below the lowest floor shall meet the
requirements of divisions (D)(1), (D)(2) and (D)(3) below.
      (4)   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all
residents of all new, substantially improved or substantially damaged
manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within flood-prone areas. This
plan shall be filed with and approved by the Floodplain Administrator and the
local emergency management coordinator.
   (D)   Elevated buildings. Fully enclosed area, of new construction and
substantially improved structures, which is below the lowest floor:
      (1)   Shall not be designed or used for human habitation, but shall only
be used for parking of vehicles, building access or limited storage of
maintenance equipment used in connection with the premises. Access to the
enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow for parking of vehicles
(garage door) or limited storage of maintenance equipment (standard exterior
door), or entry to the living area (stairway or elevator). The interior portion
of such enclosed area shall not be finished or partitioned into separate rooms,
except to enclose storage areas;
      (2)   Shall be constructed entirely of flood-resistant materials to the
top of any enclosure below the lowest floor;
      (3)   Shall include, in Zones A, AE, and A1-30, flood openings to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on walls by allowing for the
entry and exit of flood waters. To meet this requirement, the openings must
either be certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed
the following minimum design criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two flood openings on different sides of each
enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (b)   The total net area of all flood openings must be at least one
square inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (c)   If a building has more than one enclosed area, each enclosed
area must have flood openings to allow flood waters to automatically enter and
exit;
         (d)   The bottom of all required flood openings shall be no higher
than one foot above the adjacent grade;
         (e)   Flood openings may be equipped with screens, louvers or other
coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of flood waters
in both directions; and
         (f)   Enclosures made of flexible skirting are not considered
enclosures for regulatory purposes and, therefore, do not require flood
openings. Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural status, is
considered an enclosure and requires flood openings as outlined above.
   (E)   Additions/improvements.
      (1)   Additions and/or improvements to pre-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
         (a)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
must be designed to minimize flood damages and must not be any more non-
conforming than the existing structure; and
         (b)   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
      (2)   Additions to post-FIRM structures with no modifications to the
existing structure other than a standard door in the common wall shall require
only the addition to comply with the standards for new construction.
      (3)   Additions and/or improvements to post-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
         (a)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
only must comply with the standards for new construction; and
         (b)   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
      (4)   Where an independent perimeter load-bearing wall is provided
between the addition and the existing building, the addition(s) shall be
considered a separate building and only the addition must comply with the
standards for new construction.
   (F)   Recreational vehicles. Recreational vehicles shall either:
      (1)   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days and be fully
licensed and ready for highway use (a recreational vehicle is ready for highway
use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by
quick disconnect type utilities and has no permanently attached additions); or
      (2)   Meet all the requirements for new construction.
   (G)   Temporary non-residential structures. Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit for a temporary structure, the applicant must
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a plan for the removal of such structure
(s) in the event of a hurricane, flash flood or other type of flood warning
notification. The following information shall be submitted in writing to the
Floodplain Administrator for review and written approval:
      (1)   A specified time period for which the temporary use will be
permitted. Time specified may not exceed three months, renewable up to one
year;
      (2)   The name, address and phone number of the individual responsible
for the removal of the temporary structure;
      (3)   The time frame prior to the event at which a structure will be
removed (i.e., minimum of 72 hours before landfall of a hurricane or
immediately upon flood warning notification);
      (4)   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with the entity
responsible for physical removal of the structure; and
      (5)   Designation, accompanied by documentation, of a location outside
the special flood hazard area, to which the temporary structure will be moved.
   (H)   Accessory structures.
      (1)   When accessory structures (sheds, detached garages and the like)
are to be placed within a special flood hazard area, the following criteria
shall be met.
         (a)   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
(including working, sleeping, living, cooking or restroom areas).
         (b)   Accessory structures shall not be temperature-controlled.
         (c)   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential.
         (d)   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of flood
waters.
         (e)   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance with
§
151.299(A)(1) of this chapter;
         (f)   All service facilities such as electrical shall be installed in
accordance with §
151.299(A)(4) of this chapter; and
         (g)   Flood openings to facilitate automatic equalization of
hydrostatic flood forces shall be provided below regulatory flood protection
elevation in conformance with §
151.300(B)(4)(c) of this chapter.
      (2)   An accessory structure with a footprint less than 150 square feet
that satisfies the criteria outlined above does not require an elevation or
flood-proofing certificate. Elevation or flood- proofing certifications are
required for all other accessory structures in accordance with §
151.072(D) of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 7-5; Ord. passed 5-17-2007(1))
§ 151.301 FLOODPLAINS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS.
   (A)   Within the special flood hazard areas designated as approximate zone a
and established in §
151.294 of this chapter, where no base flood elevation (BFE) data has been
provided by FEMA, the following provisions, in addition to §§
151.299 and
151.300 of this chapter, shall apply: no encroachments, including fill, new
construction, substantial improvements or new development shall be permitted
within a distance of 20 feet each side from top of bank or five times the width
of the stream, whichever is greater, unless certification with supporting
technical data by a registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating
that such encroachments shall not result in any increase in flood levels during
the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
   (B)   The BFE used in determining the regulatory flood protection elevation
shall be determined based on one of the following criteria set in priority
order.
      (1)   If base flood elevation (BFE) data is available from other sources,
all new construction and substantial improvements within such areas shall also
comply with all applicable provisions of this chapter and shall be elevated or
flood-proofed in accordance with standards in this chapter.
      (2)   All subdivision, manufactured home park and other development
proposals shall provide base flood elevation (BFE) data if development is
greater than five acres or has more than 50 lots/ manufactured home sites. Such
base flood elevation (BFE) data shall be adopted by reference per §
151.294 of this chapter to be utilized in implementing this chapter.
      (3)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is not available from a
federal, state or other source as outlined above, the reference level shall be
elevated to or above the regulatory flood protection elevation, as defined in §
151.013 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 7-5; Ord. passed 5-17-2007(1))
§ 151.302 RIVERINE FLOODPLAINS WITH BFE BUT WITHOUT ESTABLISHED FLOODWAYS OR
NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS.
   Along rivers and streams where BFE data is provided but neither floodway nor
non-encroachment areas are identified for a special flood hazard area on the
FIRM or in the FIS report, the following requirements shall apply to all
development within such areas:
   (A)   Standards outlined in §§
151.299 and
151.300 of this chapter; and
   (B)   Until a regulatory floodway or non-encroachment area is designated, no
encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements or
other development, shall be permitted unless certification with supporting
technical data by a registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating
that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all
other existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point within the
community.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 7-5; Ord. passed 5-17-2007(1))
§ 151.303 FLOODWAYS AND NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS.
   Areas designated as floodways or non-encroachment areas are located within
the special flood hazard areas established in §
151.300 of this chapter. The floodways and non-encroachment areas are extremely
hazardous areas due to the velocity of flood waters that have erosion potential
and carry debris and potential projectiles. The following provisions, in
addition to standards outlined in §§
151.299 and
151.300 of this chapter, shall apply to all development within such areas.
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements and other developments shall be permitted unless it has been
demonstrated that:
      (1)   The proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in the
flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood, based on hydrologic and
hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice
and presented to the Floodplain Administrator prior to issuance of floodplain
development permit; or
      (2)   A conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR) has been approved by
FEMA. A letter of map revision (LOMR) must also be obtained upon completion of
the proposed encroachment.
   (B)   If division (A) is satisfied, all development shall comply with all
applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   No manufactured homes shall be permitted, except replacement
manufactured homes in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision;
provided, the following provisions are met:
      (1)   The anchoring and the elevation standards of §
151.300(C) of this chapter; and
      (2)   The no encroachment standard of division (A) above.
   (D)   The following uses shall be permitted within the floodway zone to the
extent that they are otherwise permitted by this chapter and provided that they
do not employ structures or fill, except as specified herein:
      (1)   General farming, pasture, outdoor plant nurseries, horticulture,
forestry, wildlife sanctuary, game farm and other similar agricultural,
quarrying, wildlife and related uses;
      (2)   Ground level loading areas, ground level automobile parking areas,
rotary aircraft ports and other similar industrial and commercial uses;
      (3)   Tractor-trailer parking; provided that, no trailers shall be
detached from tractors;
      (4)   Lawns, gardens, play areas and other similar uses;
      (5)   Golf courses, tennis courts, driving ranges, archery ranges, picnic
grounds, parks, swimming pools, hiking or horseback riding trails, open space
and other similar private and public recreational uses;
      (6)   Streets, bridges, utility lines, storm drainage facilities, sewage
or waste treatment facilities, water supply facilities and other similar public
or private utility uses, but only if the proposed activity combined with the
allowable encroachment of the floodway fringe and with any previously placed or
previously approved encroachment in the complies with the provisions of
division (A) above;
      (7)   Temporary facilities such as displays, circuses, carnivals or
similar transient amusement enterprises;
      (8)   Boat docks, ramps, piers or similar structures;
      (9)   Grading, as it complies with the provisions of division (A) above;
and
      (10)   Cantilevered portions of structures; provided that, foundation and
supports are located outside the floodway zone and the underside of the
cantilevered portion is at least two feet above base flood elevation.
   (E)   Storage or processing of materials that are flammable, corrosive,
toxic, or explosive or which could otherwise be injurious to human, animal or
plant life in time of flood is prohibited in the Floodway Zone.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 7-5; Ord. passed 5-17-2007(1))
**** STREET NAMES AND ADDRESS ASSIGNMENTS ****
§ 151.315 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide for the orderly assignment of
street addresses to protect the safety of the general public by facilitating
the finding of individual dwellings and businesses for the delivery of public
and private goods and services. The county’s Planning Department is the only
agency with the authority to assign or modify street addresses within its
jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), App. 1, § A-1)
§ 151.316 STREET ADDRESS SYSTEM.
   (A)   Establishment of grid system.
      (1)   From Greensboro. Elm Street and Market Street are the base lines
used in numbering a street in a north/south or east/west direction. Streets
running north and south from Market Street shall be numbered starting with the
100 block. Streets running east and west from Elm Street shall be numbered
starting with the 100 block.
      (2)   From High Point. Main Street and the Southern Railroad tracks are
the base lines used in numbering a street in a north/south or east/west
direction. Streets running north and south from the Southern Railroad tracks
shall be numbered starting with the 100 block. Streets running east and west
from Main Street shall be numbered starting with the 100 block.
   (B)   Odd-even numbers.
      (1)   From Greensboro. Going north and south from Elm Street and east and
west from Market Street, even addresses will be on the right hand side of the
street while odd addresses will be on the left-hand side of the street.
      (2)   From High Point. Going north and south from Main Street and east
and west from the Southern Railroad tracks, even addresses will be on the right
hand side of the street while odd addresses will be on the left-hand side of
the street.
   (C)   Vacant properties. Because there is no way of determining how many
structures will eventually be built on vacant land within a block, any system
which attempts to number structures consecutively does not provide the
flexibility to accommodate change. A street number is assigned for each 100
feet of lot frontage.
   (D)   Corner lot. Corner lots are assigned two numbers since the unit could
face either street. The owner or developer shall be assigned the street address
that accommodates the front entrance of the structure, at the time of permit
application.
   (E)   Street address assignment.
      (1)   Primary address. Each unit of property will be assigned a primary
address. Primary addresses will consist of up to four numerals, and will be
determined by the block in which the property is located. The determination of
block length will be by each municipality. Single-family structures (attached
or detached) and townhouses are assigned individual street numbers for each
unit.
      (2)   Secondary address.
         (a)   Multi-family dwellings. Apartment, twin homes, duplexes and
condominiums are assigned secondary addresses. The secondary address will
include the primary address followed by a dash and a number and/or letter. An
example would be “1621-A Smith Street” with “1621” being the primary address
and “A” being the secondary address. The first unit on the first floor would be
addresses “1621-1A Smith Street”; the second flood “1621-2A Smith Street”; and
the like.
         (b)   Non-residential buildings. Office, commercial and industrial
buildings with more than one tenant are also assigned secondary addresses. The
designation of the address will be according to the individual jurisdiction
only when sufficient numbers are not available or common exterior drives are
used. The secondary address will include the primary address followed by a
suite number. The first unit on the first floor would be addressed “1621 Smith
Street, Suite 101”, the second floor “1621 Smith Street, Suite 201” and the
like.
      (3)   Timing. Addresses are assigned following preliminary plat or site
plan approval for single-family attached or cluster developments, townhouses
and condominiums and non-residential group development. Approval of a final
plat is required for conventional single-family developments before numbers are
assigned and building permits issued. The Enforcement Officer is furnished with
an approved plat or site plan on which to assign addresses. The plat or site
plan will be kept on file in the Planning Department.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), App. 1, § A-2)
§ 151.317 POSTING OF ADDRESSES.
   Posting of addresses by the property owner shall be as per the county’s
Street Address Ordinance adopted 4-16-1984. Only digits to be used in the
number as opposed to script.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), App. 1, § A-3)
§ 151.318 CHANGE OF EXISTING ADDRESS.
   In assigning new addresses, as few existing addresses as possible will be
changed.
   (A)   Reason for change. Existing addresses may be changed for just cause.
Examples of just cause are:
      (1)   Area where no addresses were left for vacant lot(s);
      (2)   Street name change approved by Planning Board;
      (3)   Person unknowingly using the wrong address;
      (4)   Change from rural route and box number to urban street address
number; and
      (5)   Street address number series presently in use is incorrect and
misleading.
   (B)   Notification. The Planning Department will notify all necessary local
government departments, utility service companies and the U.S. Postal Service
of any new assignment or change in street address.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), App. 1, § A-4)
§ 151.319 ALPHABET NOT USED.
   The letters “I” and “O” will not be used in street addresses.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), App. 1, § A-5)
§ 151.320 STREET NAMES.
   (A)   The developer shall submit names for new streets contained within
proposed developments.
   (B)   The Planning Department shall approve all street names with right of
appeal to the Town Council.
   (C)   Proposed streets obviously in alignment with existing streets shall be
given the same name. In no other case shall the name of proposed streets
duplicate existing street names. The proposed name shall not be phonetically
similar to existing names irrespective of suffix.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), App. 1, § A-6)
§ 151.321 STREET NAME PREFIXES AND SUFFIXES.
   (A)   Prefixes.
      (1)   The prefix “North” shall be used for the northern portion of
roadways having the same name (according to each user’s grid system).
      (2)   The prefix “South” shall be used for the southern portion of
roadways having the same name (according to each users grid system).
      (3)   The prefix “East” shall be used for the eastern portion of roadways
having the same name (according to each users grid system).
      (4)   The prefix “West” shall be used for the western portion of roadways
having the same name (according to each users grid system).
      (5)   The prefix “N.C. Highway” shall be used for all state-numbered
routes or roadways.
      (6)   The prefix “U.S. Highway” shall be used for all federal numbered
routes or roadways (excluding those on interstate system).
      (7)   The prefix “Interstate Highway” shall be used for all federal
numbered routes or roadways on the interstate system.
   (B)   Suffixes.
      (1)   The suffix “Street” shall be used for roadways running generally in
a north-south direction or parallel to the base line for the grid system.
      (2)   The suffix “Avenue” shall be used for roadways running generally in
a east-west direction or parallel to the base line for the grid system
depending on the individual user policy.
      (3)   The suffix “Drive”, “Trail” and “Trace” shall be used for roadways
which follow a wandering alignment in different directions and/or intersect
both “street” and “avenue” and generally have scenic attractiveness.
      (4)   The suffix “Road” shall be used for roadways running generally in a
diagonal direction and/or connecting urban areas.
      (5)   The suffix “Boulevard” and “Parkway” shall be used for divided
roadways, the sides of which are separated by a park or open median strip for
their main extent.
      (6)   The suffix “Terrace”, “Point”, “Cove”, “Dale” or “Way” shall be
used for short roadways with an exit from one end only (dead end) with no
potential for extension.
      (7)   The suffix “Court” shall be used for cul-de-sacs.
      (8)   The suffix “Circle” shall be used for short roadways that are
circular or semi-circular in form and intersect the roadways from which they
emanate at two different places.
      (9)   The suffix “Place” or “Lane” shall be used for short roadways
generally not over a block in length (exit from both ends) with no regard to
predominant direction. (Guilford County uses “Lane” only for private lanes, as
defined by this chapter.)
      (10)   The suffix “Alley” shall be used for short roadways of substandard
width as between buildings or at the rear of property, generally used for
service.
      (11)   No suffix shall be used for roadways which bears a name which in
actuality is a suffix designation (i.e., Parkway or Boulevard).
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), App. 1, § A-7)
§ 151.322 STREET NAME SIGNS.
   For new public streets, private streets and private lanes, street name signs
and traffic-control signs shall be installed to standards found in §
151.132(P) and (Q) of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), App. 1, § A-8)
**** MAP STANDARDS ****
§ 151.335 NUMBER OF REVIEW AND FILING COPIES TO BE SUBMITTED.
Table 34: Number of Review and Filing Copies to be Submitted
Type of Map Review # of Prints Filing (After Plan Approval)
Table 34: Number of Review and Filing Copies to be Submitted
                                    Review #  Filing (After Plan Approval)
Type of Map                         of Prints # of   # of Mylars # of Mylar
                                              Prints             As-Builts
Exclusion map                       4         4      -           -
Final plat                          9         9      1           1
Plot plan                           3         -      -           -
Preliminary plan                    9         4      -           -
Site plan/group developments,
including:
   Site layout
   Water and sewer utility       9 Sets    4 Sets -           -
   Grading/watershed development
plan
   Landscaping plan
Sketch plan                         9         4      -           -
Street and utility construction     10 Sets   7 Sets -           1 Set
plans and profiles
 
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007, App. A, § A-1)
§ 151.336 REQUIRED INFORMATION ON MINOR/MAJOR SUBDIVISIONS, EXCLUSION AND THE
LIKE.
   (A)   Submission of all maps and/or plans shall contain the following
information before submitted to the Planning Department for review. An “X”
indicates required information.
   (B)   Information required on site plan sheets are indicated by the
following codes:
      (1)   “A” to be included on all sheets;
      (2)   “S” to be included on site layout sheet;
      (3)   “U” to be included on utility sheet;
      (4)   “E” to be included on soil and erosion-control sheet;
      (5)   “L” to be included on landscaping sheet;
      (6)   “G” to be included on grading sheet; and
      (7)   “W” to be included on Watershed Development Plan.
   (C)   Depending on the scale or complexity of the development any or all the
sheets may be combined. Additional information may be required for approval of
the site plan. The Enforcement Officer may waive items required for sketch
plans if it is judged that they are not necessary to complete the review at the
sketch plan stage. The site layout meeting the requirements of §§
151.120 through
151.132 of this chapter may serve as the preliminary subdivision plat.
Table 35: Required Information
Type of     Minor and Major Subdivisions
Plan
            Sketc h Prelimi nary            Exclu sion           Site Plan/
Information Plan    Plan         Final Plat Map        Plot Plan Group
                                                                 Develop ment
Table 35: Required Information
Type of Plan                                                                       Minor and Major
                                                                                   Subdivisions
                                                                                                                  Site
                                                                                   Sketc Prelimi Final Exclu Plot Plan/
Information                                                                        h     nary    Plat  sion  Plan Group
                                                                                   Plan  Plan          Map        Develop
                                                                                                                  ment
Map or plan size
   Maps submitted shall not exceed a maximum size of 24” by 36”             X     X                        A
   Maps of plans may be drawn on more than one sheet with appropriate match lineX     X       X     X          A
   Standard 18” by 24” sheet for plats to be recorded, 1/2” border on all sides         X     X
   Original drawn on drafting film, matte both sides with a thickness of 0.003 to             X     X
0.004 mil, map to be recorded.
   Plan endorsement block                                                             X                        A
Watershed development plans shall include...
   Watershed name and classification                                            X     X                        W
   Watershed boundaries, WCA boundaries and WCA tier lines                      X     X       X           X    W
   Total built-upon area shown with total # of acres and percentage of total areX     X                   X    W
noted
   The shortest distance to the nearest applicable floodway identified on the         X                        W
applicable Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) map
   Average % of slope, prior to development                                           X                        W
   Undisturbed area (see watershed protection definition of “undisturbed area”)   X                        W
shown with number of acres and percent noted
   Permanent runoff control structures shown and properly labeled               X     X       X                W
   Note type of sewage disposal used                                                  X                   X    W
   Existing and proposed utilities that may conflict with runoff control              X                        W
structures
   Maintenance responsibility note for permanent runoff control structures, whenX     X       X                W
used
   Engineer’s certification of runoff control, when required by ordinance     X     X                        W
Title block containing
   Name of development                                                          X     X       X     X     X    A
   Name of map or plan (sketch plan, preliminary plan and the like)             X     X       X     X     X    A
   Owner’s name with address and daytime phone #                              X     X       X     X     X    A
   Location (including address, city, township, county and state)               X     X       X     X     X    A
   Date(s) map(s) prepared or revised                                           X     X       X     X     X    A
   Scale of drawing in feet per inch. Drawing shall be at a scale of not less thXn    X       X     X          A
1” equal to 100’. If all lots are greater than 3 acres a smaller scale may be used
   Scale of drawing in feet per inch. Drawing shall be at a scale of not less than
1” equal to 40’, if all lots are greater than 3 acres, only the building site                            X
needs to be shown
   Scale of drawing in feet per inch. Drawing shall be at a scale of not less than                        X
1” equal to 60’, if required for an improvement permit
   Bar graph                                                                          X       X     X     X    A
   Name, address and telephone # of preparer of map (licensed surveyor, engineerX     X       X     X     X    A
or architect)
   Developer’s name, address and daytime phone number (if different from ownerX��s) X       X     X     X    A
   Zoning district(s) within the property and adjacent properties               X     X       X     X     X    S, L
   Existing land use within the property and on adjacent properties             X     X                        S, L
   Plat book or deed book reference, if any                                           X       X     X     X    S
   Names of adjoining property owners (or subdivisions or developments of record      X       X     X          S
with plat book reference)
   Tax map, block and parcel(s) number                                          X     X       X     X          S, E, W
   Vicinity map showing location of site relative to surrounding area (typicallyX     X       X     X          A
drawn in upper right-hand corner), at a scale of 1” = 2,000’
   Corporate limits, county lines and other jurisdiction lines, if any, on the  X     X       X     X          A
tract
   Registration and seal of land surveyor                                                     X                S
   North arrow and orientation (north arrow shall not be oriented towards bottomX     X       X     X     X    A
of map)
   Source of property boundaries signed or sealed by registered land surveyor,        X                   X    S, W
architect, landscape architect or engineer
Boundaries of the tract to be subdivided or developed
   Distinctly and accurately represented and showing all distances                    X       X     X     X    A
   Tied to nearest street intersection (within 300’) or U.S.G.S.(within 2,000’)   X       X     X          S
   Showing locations of intersecting boundary lines or adjoining properties           X       X     X          S
   Location and descriptions of all monuments, markers and control corners                    X           X    S
   Existing property lines on tract to be subdivided. If existing property linesX     X       X     X          S
are to be changed, label as “old property lines” and show as dashed lines
   Dimensions, location and use of all existing and proposed buildings; distances
between buildings measured at the closest point; distance from buildings to        X     X             X     X    S
closest property lines
   The name and location of any property or building on the National Register of      X       X     X          S
Historic Places or locally designated historic property
   Railroad lines and rights-of-way                                             X     X       X     X     X    A
   Watercourses, pond, lakes or streams                                         X     X       X     X     X    A
   Marshes, swamp and other wetlands                                                  X                   X    A
   Areas to be dedicated or reserved for the public or a local jurisdiction           X       X     X     X    A
   Areas designated as common area or open space under control of an owners’  X     X       X           X    S, L, W
association
   Proposed building locations for twin home or zero lot-line developments      X     X                   X
   Location of manufactured dwelling spaces and whether they are designated for                           X    S
single or double wide dwellings
   Typical diagram of manufactured dwelling space                                                              S
   Location of designated recreation areas and facilities
   Location of floodway and floodway fringe from flood hazard boundary maps and X     X       X     X     X    A
cross-section elevations
   Existing and proposed topography of tract and 100’ beyond property showing
existing contour intervals of no greater than 5’ (2’ where available) and labelXng   X                        A
at least two contours per map and all others at 10’ intervals from sea level
   Proposed lot lines and dimensions                                            X     X       X     X     X    A
   Square footage of all proposed lots under an acre in size and acreage for all      X       X     X     X    S
lots over an acre in size
   Lots sequenced or numbered consecutively                                           X       X     X     X    S
Environment Health Division information for subdivisions without public sewer available...
   Denied lots or lots not evaluated shall be crosshatched and labeled “NO          X       X           X    S
IMPROVEMENT PERMIT HAS BEEN ISSUED FOR THIS LOT”
   The specific location of the proposed facility and appurtenances, the site for
the proposed wastewater system, and the location of water supplies and surface                               X
waters
Site calculations, including
   Acreage in total tract                                                       X     X       X     X          S, E, W
   Acreage in public greenways and other open space                                   X       X                S, L
   Total number of lots proposed                                                X     X       X                S
   Linear feet in streets                                                             X       X                S
   Area in newly dedicated right-of-way                                               X       X                S
   Show dimensions and location of all parking areas, total provided and minimum
required number of parking spaces, driveways, service areas, off-street loading                              X    S, L
facilities and pedestrian walkways
   Within parking areas clearly indicate each parking space, angle of parking and                         X    S
typical size
Street data, illustrating
   Existing and proposed rights-of-way lines within and adjacent to property    X     X       X     X     X    S
   Existing and proposed rights-of-way within and adjacent to property showing...
      Total right-of-way width dimension                                     X     X       X     X          S
      Right-of-way width dimension from centerline of existing public streets      X       X     X     X    S
   Existing and proposed streets showing...
      Pavement or curb lines                                                 X     X             X          S, W
      Pavement width dimension (face-to-face)                                X     X             X          S, W
      Cul-de-sac pavement radius                                             X     X             X          S, W
   Existing and proposed street names (refer to §§
151.315 through                                                                    X     X       X     X          A
151.322 of this chapter)
   Location, dimension and type of all easements                                X     X       X     X     X    A
Utility layout plan showing connections to existing systems, line sizes, material of lines, location of fire hydrants,
blowoffs, valves, manholes, catch basins, force mains and the like for the following types of utility lines...
   Sanitary sewer                                                                     X                   X    U
   Water distribution                                                                 X                   X    U
   Storm sewer                                                                        X                   X    U, G, W
   Natural gas, electric, cable T.V. etc.                                             X                   X    U
Erosion-control plans shall included...
   Scale of the drawing shall be no smaller than 1” equals 100’                                            E
   Construction sequence                                                              X                        E
   Area to be disturbed with number of graded acres and percentage noted              X                        E
   Temporary sediment control measures, including the design, locations,              X                        E
dimensions and calculations
   Permanent erosion controls, including design, locations, dimensions and
calculations. Proposed ponds should have the drainage area and impervious surface        X       X                S, E
area draining to the pond noted
   Permanent watershed protection controls including ponds, maintenance and access    X       X                S, E, W
easements and natural filtration and infiltration areas
   Storm water network, including swales, culverts, inlet and outlet structures       X                        U, E
with grades, elevations, dimensions and hydraulic calculations
   Seeding specifications, including seedbed preparation, soil type and               X                        E
amendments, seeding rates and schedule
   Soil types as defined in Table 7 of the County Soil Survey                         X                        E, W
Landscaping plan shall include...
   Location of required street planing yard, planting yard and/or parking lot         X                        S, L
plantings
   Location and type of exterior lighting.                                                                     L
   Location and screening of dumpsters/compacters (show pad dimensions)                                        S, L
   Location, species, size (caliper or DBH), number, spacing, height of trees and
shrubs in required planting areas. (If existing vegetation is to be preserved,                                    L
indicate approximate height and species mix.)
   Size of planting yard, walls, berms and fences                                                              S, L
   Provisions for watering, soil stabilization, plant protection and maintenance                               L
access
   Location and description of barriers to protect any vegetation from damage both                             L
during and after construction
   Location and dimensions of central mail structure(s)                                                        S
   Existing and proposed signs (location, height and area)                            X                        S
   Location, dimensions and details of proposed clubhouses, pools, tennis courts,     X                        S, L
tot lots or other common area recreation facilities
                                                                                                                  If
                                                                                                                  required
   Front, side and rear elevations of proposed building(s)                                                     by
                                                                                                                  Zoning
                                                                                                                  Board
Certificates and endorsement: (See §
151.337 of this chapter for wording. Certificates and endorsements should be placed along left border of map.)
   Certificate of survey accuracy signed by surveyor and attested by notary public            X     X
   Certificate of ownership and dedication signed by owner(s)                                 X     X
   Certificate of approval by Division of Highways of the state’s Department of             X     X
Transportation
   Certificate stating that no approval is required by Division of Highways of the            X     X
state’s Department of Transportation
   Certificate of local jurisdiction approval for recordation                                 X     X
   Review officer certification as required by G.S. § 47-30                                  X     X
   Certificate of Health Department approval                                                  X
   Certificate of purpose for plat as required by G.S. § 47-30                               X
 
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007, App. A, § A-2)
§ 151.337 MAP CERTIFICATES.
   (A)   Certificate of Survey Accuracy.
 
I,                                                         , certify that this plat was drawn under my supervision from (an actual
survey made under my supervision) (deed description recorded in Book           , Page          , etc.) (Other); that the boundaries
not surveyed are clearly indicated as drawn from information found in Book          , Page         ; that the ratio of precision as
calculated is 1:                                               ; this plat was prepared in accordance with G.S. § 47-30, as amended.
Witness my original signature, registration number and seal this              day of                       , A.D.               .
SEAL OR STAMP
                                                               
Surveyor
                                                               
Registration Number
 
 
   (B)   Certificate of Acknowledgement of Notary Public.
 
North Carolina,                                   County
I,                                                      , a Notary Public of the county and State aforesaid, certify that
                                       , a registered land surveyor, personally appeared before me this day and acknowledged the
execution of the foregoing instrument. Witness may hand and official stamp or seal, this              day of
                           ,              .
                                                               
Notary Public
SEAL or STAMP
My commission expires:
                                                               
 
 
   (C)   Certificate of Ownership and Dedication.
 
The undersigned hereby acknowledge(s) that the land shown on this plat is within the subdivision regulation jurisdiction of
the Town of Stokesdale and this plat and allotment to be xxxx free act and deed and hereby dedicate(s) to public use as
streets and easements, forever all areas so shown or indicated on said plat.
                                                               
Signed
                                                               
Attest
 
 
   (D)   Certificate of Approval by Division of Highways of the state’s
Department Transportation.
 
Department of Transportation
Division of Highways
Proposed Subdivision Road
Construction Standards Certificate
Approved                                                                                       
                           District Engineer
                                                                                          
                           Date
 
 
   (E)   Certificate stating no approval is required by Division of Highways of
the state’s Department of Transportation.
 
This plat does not require certificate of approval by the Division of Highways as provided in G.S. § 136-102.6(g).
                                                               
Signed
                                                               
Date
Town of Stokesdale Enforcement Officer
 
 
   (F)   Certificate of Local Jurisdiction Approval for Recordation.
 
Approved by the Town of Stokesdale, North Carolina, on the            day of                   ,             , pursuant to
Article V of the Stokesdale Development Ordinance.
                                                               
Town of Stokesdale Enforcement Officer
 
 
   (G)   Certificate of Health Department Approval (Final Plat).
 
These lots were evaluated in accordance with Article 11 of Chapter 130A and Rules .1901-.1968 of Title 15A subchapter 18A of
the North Carolina Administrative Code (T15A, 18A.1901-.1968) by the Guilford County Health Department. Specific lot
information can be obtained by contacting the Guilford County Health Department
                                                               
Date
                                                               
Signed
 
 
   (H)   Certificate of Purpose of Plat.
 
 
The Final Plat shall contain one of the following statement, signed and sealed by the plat preparer....
a.   This survey creates a subdivision of land within the area of a county or municipality that has an ordinance that
regulates parcels of land;
b.   This survey is located in such portion of a county or municipality that is unregulated as to an ordinance that regulates
parcels of land;
c.   This survey is of an existing parcel or parcels of land;
d.   This survey is of another category, such as the recombination of existing parcels, a court-ordered survey, or other
exception to the definition of subdivision; or
e.   The information available to the surveyor is such that the surveyor is unable to make a determination to the best of his
or her professional ability to determine the purpose of this plat.
 
                                                               
Signed, Surveyor
SEAL
                                                               
Date
 
 
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007, App. A, § A-3)
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Penalties.
      (1)   Any violation of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor or infraction
as provided by G.S. § 14-4, subject to a maximum fine of $500.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007, § 8-4)
      (2)   Any person who violates any provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to assessment of a civil penalty in the amount of $25 for the first
violation; $50 for the second violation; $100 for the third violation; and $200
for the fourth and succeeding violations thereafter; except that, any penalties
assessed under §
151.078(C) of this chapter shall be stayed until all appeals are resolved.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 8-5; Ord. passed 5-17-2007(1))
   (B)   Civil penalties; soil erosion and sedimentation control.
      (1)   General. Any person who violates any provisions of §§
151.265 through
151.276 of this chapter, or the Act, or rules or orders adopted or issued
pursuant to this chapter, or who initiates or continues a land-disturbing
activity for which an erosion and sedimentation control plan is required, or
not in accordance with the terms, conditions and provisions of an approved
erosion and sedimentation control plan, shall be subject to a civil penalty. No
civil penalty shall accrue in excess of $500 per day, in addition to the
penalty for failure to submit an erosion and sedimentation control plan as
provided in §
151.277 of this chapter.
      (2)   Specific civil penalties. Civil penalties for specific violations
of §§
151.265 through
151.276 of this chapter shall be assessed as follows:
         (a)   Grading without permit. Five hundred dollars per day for failure
to secure a valid grading permit prior to conducting a land-disturbing activity
for which a soil erosion and sedimentation control plan is required;
         (b)   Failure to protect. Five hundred dollars per day for failure to
take all reasonable measures to protect public property, or private property,
including lakes and/or natural watercourses, from damage caused by land-
disturbing activities;
         (c)   Failure to follow plan. Three hundred dollars per day for
failure to conduct a land-disturbing activity in accordance with the provisions
of an approved erosion and sedimentation control plan;
         (d)   Failure to install devices. Five hundred dollars per day for
failure, when more than one acre is disturbed ($250 per day when one acre or
less is disturbed), to install erosion and sedimentation control devices
sufficient to retain the sediment generated by the land-disturbing activity
within the boundaries of the tract(s) and prevent off-site sedimentation;
         (e)   Failure to maintain measures. Three hundred dollars per day for
failure to maintain satisfactory erosion and sedimentation control measures,
structures and/or devices on the site that are designed to provide protection
from the calculated maximum peak rate of runoff from the ten-year storm or the
25-year storm in a High Quality Storm (HQW) Zone;
         (f)   Failure to maintain temporary measures. Two hundred fifty
dollars per day for failure to maintain temporary erosion and sedimentation
control measures and facilities during the development of the site;
         (g)   Failure to maintain slopes. Two hundred fifty dollars per day
for failure on graded slopes and fills to maintain an angle sufficient to
retain vegetative cover or other adequate erosion and sedimentation control
devices or structures;
         (h)   Failure to cover slopes. Two hundred fifty dollars per day for
failure within 30 days of completion of any phase of grading to plant or
otherwise provide exposed, graded slopes or fills with ground cover, devices or
structures sufficient to restrain erosion;
         (i)   Failure to plant cover. Two hundred fifty dollars per day for
failure on a tract when more than one acre is disturbed, to plant or otherwise
provide ground cover sufficient to restrain erosion within 30 working days or
120 calendar days, 15 working days or 60 calendar days in high quality water
zones, whichever is the shorter, following completion of construction or
development;
         (j)   Failure to revise plan. Two hundred fifty dollars per day for
failure to file an acceptable, revised erosion and sedimentation control plan
after being notified of the need to do so;
         (k)   Failure to maintain buffer. Two hundred fifty dollars per day
for failure to retain a buffer zone of sufficient width along a lake or natural
watercourse to confine visible siltation within the 25% of the buffer zone
nearest the land-disturbing activity;
         (l)   Interference with official duties. Five hundred dollars per day
for obstructing, hampering or interfering with any authorized agent of the
jurisdiction or the Sedimentation Control Commission while in the process of
carrying out his or her official duties; and
         (m)   Failure to provide control. Two hundred fifty dollars per day
for failure to install or maintain erosion-control devices, or prevent off-site
sedimentation on sites of land-disturbing activity not requiring a grading
permit and with disturbed area of less than one acre.
      (3)   Erosion and sedimentation control plan. Any person who fails to
submit an erosion and sedimentation control plan as required by this chapter
shall be subject to a single, non-continuing civil penalty of not more than
$1,000. Any person may be subject to additional civil penalties for violation
of any other provision of this chapter or rules or orders adopted or issued
pursuant to this chapter.
      (4)   Civil penalty use. Civil penalties collected for erosion and
sedimentation control violations shall be used or disbursed as directed by G.S.
§ 113A-64(a).
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 8-6)
   (C)   Criminal penalty; soil erosion and sedimentation control. Any person
who knowingly or willfully violates any soil erosion and sedimentation control
provisions of this chapter, or rule or order adopted or issued pursuant to the
soil erosion and sedimentation control provisions, or who knowingly or
willfully initiates or continues a land-disturbing activity for which an
erosion and sedimentation control plan is required, except in accordance with
the terms, conditions and provisions of an approved plan, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment not to exceed 90 days, or by a fine not
to exceed $5,000, or both.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007(1), § 8-7)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Section Code Section
G.S. Section                Code Section
                            31.99;
                            90.99;
14-4                        130.99;
                            151.049;
                            151.999
14-269 et seq.              31.06
14-288.1                    31.06
14-288.14                   31.01
14-409.39(2)                31.06
15A-300.1                   Ch. 91
15A-300.2                   Ch. 91
16A-193                     92.03
Ch. 19A                     90.01
47C-1 et seq.               151.123
                            151.210;
47-30                       151.336;
                            151.337
63-1                        151.233
63-79(1)                    151.233
63-96                       Ch. 91
67-4.1 et seq.              90.10
74-46 through 74-68         151.066
90-187.16                   90.62
90, Art. 5                  130.01
105-277.2 through 105-277.7 151.014
105-360                     Charter Section 2
113A-1 et seq.              151.276
113A-50 et seq.             151.013
113A-52(8)                  151.066
113A-56(a)                  151.066
113A-61(c)                  151.032
113A-64                     151.014
113A-64(a)                  151.999
113A-64(b)                  151.276
Ch. 130A                    90.39
130A-290(18)                151.014
130A-301.2                  151.210
130A-317                    50.25
130A, Art. 10               50.28
136-1-2.6                   151.132
136-2E                      151.073
136-66.10                   151.098
136-66.10(a)                151.098
136-66.2                    151.073
136-102.6                   151.014;
                            151.132
136-102.6(g)                151.337
Ch. 139                     151.014
140-139.1(b)                151.210
143-138                     151.014;
                            151.066
143-143.15                  151.300
143-212                     151.233
143-214.10                  151.233
143-215.56(c)               151.076
150B-14(c)                  151.014
150B, Arts. 3 and 4         151.233
153A-50                     151.011
153A-123(d) and (e)         90.99
153A-340                    130.02
                            151.003;
153A-344.1                  151.013;
                            151.014
153A, Art. 18               151.233
154A-334.1                  151.080
159-48(b)(1)                151.233
159-81                      151.233
159-97                      151.233
Ch. 160A                    151.005
160A-79                     151.011
160A-87                     30.03
160A-102                    Charter § 8.2
160A-174                    50.25;
                            151.233
                            50.01;
160A-175                    50.99;
                            130.99
160A-177                    50.25
160A-184                    130.02
160A-193                    151.233
160A-312                    50.01
160A-385.1                  151.013
160A, Art. 5, part 4        Charter § 8.2
                            151.004;
Ch. 160D                    151.005;
                            151.233
160D-105                    151.010
160D-108                    151.080
160D-108.1                  151.014
160D-109(f)                 151.025
160D-301                    151.026
160D-302                    151.028
160D-303                    151.027
160D-309                    151.025
160D-403                    151.070
160D-404                    151.047
160D-404(b)                 151.048
160D-405                    151.047;
                            151.048
160D-405(f)                 151.047;
                            151.048
                            151.028;
160D-406                    151.032;
                            151.077
160D-406(b)                 151.077
160D-501(a)                 151.010
160D-601                    151.025
160D-602(b)                 151.026;
                            151.031
160D-605                    151.031
160D-804.1                  151.074
160D-949                    151.027
Ch. 160D, part 4            151.027;
                            151.290
163-288.2                   Charter Section 3
166A-8                      31.01
168-21                      151.014
                            
 
 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord.    Date   Code Section
No.     Passed
2       - -    Ch. 70 Schd. I
6       - -    Ch. 70 Schd. I
7       - -    Ch. 70 Schd. I
8       - -    Ch. 70 Schd. I
10      - -    Ch. 70 Schd. I
11      - -    Ch. 70 Schd. I
12      - -    Ch. 70 Schd. I
13      - -    Ch. 70 Schd. I
15      - -    Ch. 70 Schd. I
17      - -    Ch. 70 Schd. I
18      - -    Ch. 70 Schd. I
19      - -    Ch. 70 Schd. I
20      - -    Ch. 70 Schd. I
21      - -    Ch. 70 Schd. I
22      - -    Ch. 70 Schd. I
23      - -    Ch. 70 Schd. I
24      - -    Ch. 70 Schd. I
26      - -    Ch. 70 Schd. I
27      - -    Ch. 70 Schd. I
28      - -    Ch. 70 Schd. II
33      - -    Ch. 70 Schd. II
40      - -    Ch. 70 Schd. I
47      - -    Ch. 70 Schd. I
48      - -    Ch. 70 Schd. I
52      - -    Ch. 70 Schd. I
56      - -    Ch. 70 Schd. I
57      - -    Ch. 70 Schd. I
64      - -    Ch. 70 Schd. I
66      - -    Ch. 70 Schd. I
68      - -    Ch. 70 Schd. I
72      - -    Ch. 70 Schd. I
75      - -    Ch. 70 Schd. I
77      - -    Ch. 70 Schd. I
79      - -    Ch. 70 Schd. I
83      - -    Ch. 70 Schd. I
84      - -    Ch. 70 Schd. I
85      - -    Ch. 70 Schd. I
86      - -    Ch. 70 Schd. I
87      - -    Ch. 70 Schd. I
88      - -    Ch. 70 Schd. I
90      - -    Ch. 70 Schd. I
91      - -    Ch. 70 Schd. I
92      - -    Ch. 70 Schd. I
93      - -    Ch. 70 Schd. I
96      - -    Ch. 70 Schd. I
97      - -    Ch. 70 Schd. I
98      - -    Ch. 70 Schd. I
99      - -    Ch. 70 Schd. I
100     - -    Ch. 70 Schd. I
105     - -    Ch. 70 Schd. I
5       2-19-  Ch. 70 Schd. I
        2004
        6-17-  50.01—
54      2004   50.12;
               50.99
55      8-19-  130.01
        2004
59      6-16-  130.02;
        2005   130.99
        6-16-  50.25—
60      2005   50.30;
               50.99
        2-16-  151.076;
-       2006   151.125
        (1)
               151.014;
               151.028;
               151.045;
        5-18-  151.075—
-       2006   151.077;
        (1)    151.105;
               151.124;
               151.125;
               151.131;
               151.210
               151.001—
               151.014;
               151.026—
               151.030;
               151.032;
               151.033;
               151.045—
               151.052;
               151.065—
               151.081;
               151.095—
               151.105;
               151.120—
               151.131;
               151.145—
        4-9-   151.155;
-       2007   151.170—
        (1)    151.176;
               151.190—
               151.194; 51.210;
               151.211;
               151.225—
               151.237;
               151.250;
               151.265—
               151.278;
               151.290—
               151.303;
               151.315—
               151.322;
               151.335—
               151.337;
               151.999
               151.003;
               151.006;
               151.007;
               151.014;
               151.028;
               151.029;
               151.047;
        5-17-  151.049;
-       2007   151.067;
        (1)    151.072;
               151.225—
               151.237;
               151.265—
               151.276;
               151.290—
               151.303;
               151.999
-       10-18- 150.01—151.04; 151.15—151.18; 151.30—151.35; 151.50—151.56; Ch. 151,
        2007   App. A—E
67      11-15- 92.01—
        2007   92.03
               151.030;
        2-21-  151.076;
-       2008   151.225—
        (1)    151.237;
               151.250
               90.01—
               90.21;
        10-21- 90.35—
-       2010   90.43;
               90.55—
               90.64;
               90.99
               151.076;
        11-18- 151.225—
-       2010   151.237;
        (1)    151.250;
               151.251
-       12-30- 30.01—
        2010   30.07
               151.098;
        11-17- 151.099;
-       2011   151.190—
        (1)    151.194;
               151.210
               151.014;
        11-17- 151.098;
-       2011   151.190—
        (2)    151.194;
               151.210
        9-20-
-       2012   151.099
        (1)
        5-21-  31.02—
-       2013   31.13;
               31.99
76      5-21-  31.01
        2013
        11-19-
-       2013   151.028
        (1)
AL2016- 6-13-  91.01;
06-2    2016   91.02;
               91.99
               151.014;
               151.026;
               151.066;
               151.068;
               151.072;
        10-23- 151.074—
-       2016   151.077;
        (1)    151.096;
               151.105;
               151.125;
               151.129;
               151.210—
               151.212
-       6-9-   50.30
        2017
-       10-18- 50.29
        2017
        12-13-
-       2018   151.132
        (1)
41      10-10- Ch. 70 Schd. I
        2019
O-2021- - -    Ch. 70 Schd. I
01
               151.005;
               151.010;
               151.011;
               151.014;
               151.025;
               151.028;
               151.031;
               151.032 
               151.047;
-       8-14-  151.048;
        2025   151.067;
               151.068—
               151.070;
               151.074;
               151.076;
               151.077;
               151.080;
               151.096;
               151.233;
               151.290
               151.004;
               151.047;
               151.075;
               151.077;
               151.080; 151.97;
-       11-13- 151.104;
        2025   151.105;
               151.124;
               151.125;
               151.147;
               151.148;
               151.210
-       4-9-   151.293;
        2026   151.294
              
 
 
 
